TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 255 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. and about |in. thick; over the layer of cake put some citron, some candied fruit cut into small square pieces, and some raisins; then add another layer of cake, some more fruit, and so on until the mould is full. Put the yolks of three eggs into a basin with 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and beat them well. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan, place it on the fire till just on the point of boiling, then stir it gradually into the beaten egg. Pour the custard over the ingredients in the mo.uld. Place the mould in a pan with cold water to about a third its height, put it over the Fig. 317. Cabinet Pudding (No. 1). fire until boiling, then put the pan and mould in a moderate oven and bake. In about an hour’s time the Pudding will be cooked. Turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish (see Fig. 317), and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. (2) Butter a mould, and spot the inside with dried cherries or raisins split in halves. Put at the bottom a few ratafia drops and macaroons, and over them thin slices of sponge cake. Line the sides with sugar biscuits or slices of sponge cake. Half fill the mould with pieces of cake, mixed with any small pieces of candied peel. Make a custard with eggs and milk, flavoured with sugar and 1 wineglassful of cognac. Pour some of this over the cake into the mould, then fill up with more cake and add the rest of the custard. Soak it well, cover the top with a piece of well-buttered paper, then tie over it a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil quickly Fig. 318. Cabinet Pudding (No. 2). for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or an hour, according to size. When done, turn it out on a dish, ornament with coloured icing, and serve with sweet sauce poured round (see Fig. 318). (3) Cut two stale penny French rolls into thin slices. Thickly butter a mould, and line it with sultanas, sticking them in close together. Fill the mould with alternate layers of the slices of roll, ratafias, and macaroons; while doing this pouring in occasionally 1 table-spoonful of brandy, using altogether 2 wineglassfuls. Well beat six eggs with 4 pint each of milk and cream, sweeten with 6oz. of caster sugar, and flavour with the grated rind of a small lemon and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Pour this mixture over the Pudding, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for two hours. When cooked, turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve. Puddings—continued. (4) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan with a little thin rind of lemon and a very small quantity of salt; boil, and pour it while hot over lib. of savoy biscuits broken in a basin, working them to a pulp with a spoon. When the mixture has cooled, mix in the beaten yolks of eight eggs and the well-whisked whites of six. Adorn a plain buttered mould with preserved cherries or other fruit, pour the mixture into it, set it on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam until done. Turn the Pudding on to a dish, pour over a mixture of 1 table- spoonful of arrowroot, with sugar to taste, and sufficient white wine to make it very liquid after it has been boiled up once, and serve. Cambridge Pudding.—Cut loz. each of candied oranges, lemon-, and citron-peels into slices, and arrange them alter- nately at the bottom of a mould lined with puff paste. Put 6oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, work in an equal quantity of sugar and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and stir over the fire until the mixture boils. Pour it into the dish with the candied peels, set it in the oven, and bake slowly for forty-five minutes; then take it out, and serve. Castle Puddings.—Put three eggs and 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, which set into a larger one containing hot water, and beat the eggs and sugar together for about twenty minutes, retaining a temperature of not less than 90deg. by replacing the water as it cools with more boiling water, and add a little grated rind of lemon or lemon extract to flavour. At the same time put 3oz. of butter into a saucepan and bring it to the same temperature as the egg mixture. Mix the two, and stir in lightly but well 4oz. of sifted flour. Half fill some buttered small tins or cups; with the mixture, put them in a quick oven, and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn them out on to a dish and serve with a sauceboatful of the following sauce: Put 1 dessert-spoonful of French potato flour into a basin and mix it smooth with 2 table-spoonfuls of water; add 1 teacupful of boiling sherry, the juice of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to taste. Put the basin at the side of the fire, and stir until the sauce is quite thick and ready for use. Children’s Pudding.—Mix together fib. of flour, 41b. of suet chopped very fine, \lb. of currants, well washed and dried, and jib. of treacle. Tie it in a fioured cloth, plunge into boiling water, and keep it boiling constantly for three hours. Circassian Pudding.—Boil together in a saucepan fib. of dried breadcrumbs and lqt. of milk. Mix in the yolks of half-a-dozen eggs beaten up with fib. of sugar and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Take it off the stove, and by degrees stir in the beaten whites of the six eggs; flavour with a few drops of essence of ratafia or vanilla. Let the mixture get cool, then pour it into a buttered dish, and bake in a slow oven. Clarence Pudding.—Well butter and flour a basin that will hold a little more than a pint, turn it upside-down, and shake out the flour that does not adhere. Have ready cleaned 8oz. of sultana raisins, and arrange part of them in various ways on the sides of the basin, right up to the edge. Cut off the crust from a French roll and grate the crumb over the raisins; over this again put 2oz. of candied citron cut in slices, alternately with the raisins until they are all used up, and pour over 1 wineglassful each of brandy and white wine. Put four eggs into a basin, beat them well, and add gradually 1 pint of milk and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Pour this over the raisins, &c., in the basin and let it remain for an hour; then tie the basin over with a cloth dipped in boiling water and wrung out, tie it over securely and closely, put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Clarges-Street Pudding.—Put loz. of isinglass into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk, add one bay-leaf, the thinly-pared yellow rind of a Seville orange, a small piece of lemon-peel, and sugar to taste. Stir the whole over the fire and boil until the isinglass is dissolved, then move