263 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. i*or details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. a dish, pour over sabayon sauce well flavoured with malaga wine, and serve. Malvern Pudding.—Well butter a plain mould or basin, and at the bottom and round the sides put a few slices of dry stale bread cut about jin. thick; fill up the cavity in the centre with some boiling hot stewed fruit, put two or more slices of the bread on the top, and let the Pudding stand for a day. Turn it out carefully on to a dish, pour over a little rich custard or cream, and serve. Manchester Pudding.—Put lqt. of fresh milk over the fire, and when it boils stir into it 6oz. of sifted breadcrumb, the grated rinds of two lemons, and sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten. Take it from the fire, then stir into it 6oz. of well-warmed butter and eight well-beaten eggs. Line a Pudding-dish with putt' paste, put a layer of marmalade or preserve at the bottom, pour the Pudding over it, and bake. Marlborough Pudding.—Peel, core, and stew six large apples till they can be rubbed through a sieve with a masher; melt 6oz. of butter by gentle heat, and mix it with the apple. Grate the rind and strain the juice of two lemons, and put them with the apple; then beat the yolks of six eggs to a cream with 8oz. of sugar, and add them also. Beat the whites of six eggs to a froth, add them to the Pudding, and bake it in an earthenware dish, lined with paste, for about half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot. Marmalade Pudding.—Prepare some good puff paste, and line a buttered shallow dish with it. Beat the yolks of four eggs thoroughly together with 4oz. of warmed butter and 1 teacupful of marmalade. Turn the mixture into the dish, and bake in a slow oven. Serve either hot or cold. Marque Pudding.—Finely shred 3oz. of suet and mix with it 4oz. each of grated breadcrumb and strawberry jam, the juice and grated peel of one lime, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Mix thoroughly, moistening with two well-beaten eggs. Turn the whole into a well-buttered mould with a lid, and boil for three hours. Just before the Pudding is ready, prepare the following sauce : Put hoz. of butter in a small saucepan, melt it, then stir in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour and 1 breakfast cupful of boiling water; when quite smooth, add 1 table-spoonful of strawberry jam, the juice of a lime, and 4 wineglassful of brandy. Stir the sauce over the fire, let it boil gently for five minutes, then mix loz. of butter with it. When the Pudding is cooked, turn it out on to a dish, strain the sauce over it, and serve. Marquise Pudding.—Remove the peels and cores from ten pears, selecting bon chrdtien if possible; put them into a preserving-pan with 3 pints of syrup at 12deg. (see SUGAR-BOILIXG), and simmer slowly without reducing the syrup until done; then take them out, rub them through a sieve, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of syrup at 30deg. Cut 8oz. of pine-apple into small squares, put them in a pre- serving-pan, and cook them in syrup at 18deg.; also cook 4lb. of cherries cut in halves in syrup at 16deg. Strain the syrup of the pineapple when cold into the pear syrup, and turn it into a freezer, working well with a spatula against the sides until nearly frozen. Add the whites of three eggs of Italian meringues, and work well with the spatula until the mixture is quite frozen; then add the cherries and pine-apple well drained of their syrup. Turn the Pudding into a dome-shaped mould about 5in. high and 6in. across, cover the mould, and hermetically seal it with butter to prevent the ice when melted from getting into the Pudding. Pack the mould in ice and bay-salt, and let it remain for two hours; then turn it out on to a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. Pour 1 teacupful of syrup at 30deg., together with h pint of champagne into a small freezer; when it is frozen, add 1 tablespoonful of Italian meringue, turn it into a sauceboat, and serve with the Pudding. Maud’s Pudding.—Rub a moderately large stale sponge cake through a fine sieve into a basin, and pour over sufficient boiling milk to form it into a batter, adding P uddings—continued. gradually a small lump of butter and 4oz. of washed, picked, and dried currants. When well mixed, turn it into a dish lined with puff paste, put it in a quick oven, and bake for an hour. In the meantime, put jib- of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, beat in the white of an egg and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and continue to whisk until the mixture is white and light and will not fall when piled up. Remove the Pudding from the oven, heap up the white of egg mixture, and serve at once. Michael Pudding.—(1) Put 2qts. of milk into a bowl, add a small quantity of rennet to turn it, press the whey from it, and rub the curd through a fine sieve into a basin. Mix in 4oz. of warmed butter, the crumb of a French roll, sufficient sugar to sweeten, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and 1 wineglassful of white wine flavoured with 1 table- spoonful of orange-flower water. When these are thoroughly mixed, pour the mixture into buttered patty-pans or cups to about three-parts fill them, set them in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. Turn them out on to a dish, decorate them with small pieces of candied orange-peel and blanched almonds alternately, sprinkle over with caster sugar, and serve with a little sweet sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Put 2|lb. of curd, as if prepared for making cheese, into a basin, and mix it up with the well-beaten yolks and whites of nine or ten eggs, whisked separately, the whites being of a still' froth; add l£lb. of stoned raisins soaked in brandy, 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 3oz. of citron cut into slices, hoz. of powdered cinnamon, and lastly 1 teacupful of brandy and rum in equal proportions. Well and thickly butter the inside of a mould, and dredge over 2 or 3 handfuls of crust of bread finely grated, making them adhere as much as possible, and turning the mould over so as to let those crumbs that do not stick fall out. Put in the Pudding mixture, set the mould in a slow oven, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half, by which time the top should be well browned. Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, beat them well, and mix in a little cream or milk, finely-chopped candied citron, and 1 wineglassful of rum or brandy. Turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve at once. A mixture of milk or cream and breadcrumbs can bo substituted for the curd if this is unobtainable. Milton Pudding.—Put 1 pint of thick cream into a saucepan with three ground blades of mace, the grated peel of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten; boil them together for a few minutes, turn the mixture into a basin, and let it get quite cold; then work in the well-beaten yolks of seven eggs, pour the mixture into a buttered mould or basin, tie it over with a cloth, put it in a saucepan of water on the fire, and boil for an hour. Turn it out when done (see Fig. 324), and serve hot with a little jam or any preserve poured round; or it may be eaten cold, when a little brandy poured over will be an improvement. Minute Pudding.—Put h pint of milk into a saucepan on the fire, and when it boils stir in 0 teacupfuls of either