205 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'c., referred to. sec under their special heads. Plovers—continued. with sheets of paper. When cooked, leave the birds till cold in the bacon. Cut the fillets oft' the birds, and stick the drumstick of the legs at the point of each fillet. Fix a slice of the bacon on each fillet, brush them over with beaten egg, coat them thickly with breadcrumbs, then egg- and-breadcrumb them again. Chop up the bones and trimmings of the birds, put them in a saucepan with a sliced onion, 2 .or 3 table spoonfuls of finely-chopped raw bam, and 1 wineglassful of sherry ; place them over the lire, and in five minutes’ time pour in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of white stock and keep it boiling gently for half-an-hour. Skim the sauce, pass it through a line hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil till reduced to a thin glaze. Mix 1 table spoonful of arrowroot to a smooth paste with a little milk or water, then mix it into the sauce with the juice of half a lemon, and keep it stirred till boiling, i Fry the fillets in boiling fat till nicely browned, then drain them, and put them in a circle on a mound of mashed potatoes, pour the sauce round them, and serve while hot. Fillets of Roasted Plovers with Sweetbreads.—Cover the birds with slices of thin bacon, wrap them in paper, and roast them. Lard and cook three sweetbreads. Pour tj pint of demi-glaze of game in a small saucepan, boil it, then . put in about a dozen stoned French olives and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. When the Plovers are cooked, cut the fillets carefully off the breasts, trim them nicely, and arrange them with the sweetbreads on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over them, and sprve. Fillets of Roasted Plovers with Truffles.—Wrap the birds round in thin slices of bacon and sheets of paper, and roast them; leave them when cooked till cold with the bacon round them. Cut the fillets off the breast and stick the drumstick of the leg at the point of each. Break up the bones and put them with the trimmings into a saucepan, add a sliced onion, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped raw ham, and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Place the sauce- pan over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in 1 \ pints of white stock, and keep it simmering for half-an- hour. Skim the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil till reduced to a thick cream. Put the trails of the birds in a mortar, pound them, and season lightly. Cut as many pieces of bread, the same size and shape of the fillets, and fry them in butter till lightly browned. Mix the beaten yolk of an egg with the trails, spread the mixture on the croutons of bread, and place them in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Fix a piece of the bacon on each of the fillets, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, then egg-and-breadcrumb again, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain the fillets and arrange them alternately with the croft tons of bread on a hot dish, mix some slices of cooked truffles with the sauce, pour it over the fillets, and serve. Fried Plovers with Truffles.—Clean, draw, and truss four Plovers, put them into a saucepan, breast downwards, and add 5oz. of butter, a couple of cloves, nine raw truffles cut into slices, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan over a brisk fire and cook for ten minutes or so. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 wineglassful of white wine to \ pint of stock, pour it into a saucepan, put it over the fire, and cook gently for twenty minutes, stirring fre- quently. Arrange the birds on a dish, add the juice of a lemon to the stock, boil for a few minutes, pour it over the Plovers, and serve. Galantines of Plovers a la Dubois.—For this dish cylinder-mould having three rounded sides will be required. Pluck and bone three Plovers. Prepare a galantine force I meat, mixing with it a salpifon of raw truffles and fat liver. Stuff' the birds with the forcemeat, and roll each one separately in a small piece of linen, which should be rather thin. Put the birds into a stewpan with some well- seasoned broth and stew them till tender. When cooked, drain the birds and put them between two dishes with a weight on the top till cold. When ready, cut the galantines into slices, put them in proper shape again, and glaze them with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Put the cylinder-mould on ice, and pour in a thin layer of aspic Plovers—continued. jelly; stick a skewer through each of the galantines, lift them up, and place them in the three-rounded sides of the mould; then fill the spaces between the birds with jelly, pouring it in gently so as not to displace them. Leave the mould in ice till the jelly is quite firm. Place a pain-vert on a dish, and ornament it tastefully, fixing in the centre a support tire same height as the mould. Dip the mould in tepid water to loosen the jelly, then turn the contents out on to the pain-vert, allowing the support to go in the centre of the galantines. Fix a small subject modelled in fat at the top of the support. Garnish between each curved part of the galantines with some black truffles, that have been peeled and glazed. Garnish the base of the pain-vert with some triangular-shaped crofttons of aspic jelly, and serve. Plovers au G-ratin.—Take out the bones of four young Plovers, leaving only the thigh bones, sprinkle sait and pepper inside, stuff them with cooked forcemeat, and truss them. Put a thick layer of quenelle forcemeat at the bottom in the centre of a gratin-dish, arranging it in the form of a flat cone. Place the Plovers on this in a circle, with their legs, tails, and their breasts outwards, press them slightly into the forcemeat, and fasten round them and the forcemeat a double strip of well-buttered paper; make it stiff with the white of an egg, and tie round with string. Put a slice of fat bacon and a piece of paper over each Plover, place the dish on a baking-sheet, turned bottom upwards, so that the birds will not be exposed to too great heat, put it into a moderate oven, and bake the birds for an hour. M hen done, take out the dish, remove the paper and bacon, wipe oft' the fat, pull out the skewers, and cut each Plover into halves. Put the halves back into their places, pour over a little reduced brown sauce with a ragofit prepared with the Plover’s bones, arrange a circle of cooked button mushrooms round them and a few on the top, and serve. Plover Pie. -Draw and skin half-a-dozen Plovers, and put them in a pie-dish on the top of 12oz. of beef-steak cut into slices, keeping them at equal distances from each other, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Have ready six hard-boiled eggs, put one between every two birds, and arrange on the top of the birds some 'mush- rooms without their stalks. Pour over ] breakfast cupful of rich gravy or stock, cover the dish with a flat of puff paste, bake in a moderate oven for an hour or so, and serve. Roasted Plovers.—(1) Pluck and singe the birds and lemove the gizzards, leaving the remainder of the entrails in the birds. Tie a thin slice of fat bacon over the breast of each bird, fix them in front of a clear fire, and roast. Put some slices of toast in the dripping-pan and baste them continually with butter. Just before removing the birds from the fire, take off the rashers of bacon and dust them over with salt. When the birds are cooked, place the pieces, of toast on a hot dish, put a bird on each, garnish with quarters of lemon, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. Fig. 261. Roasted Plovers. (2) Pick, singe, draw, and wipe six fine fat, tender Plovers, pick out the eyes, truss the legs together, skewer the head under one leg, and lay a thin slice of larding pork on each bird; tie securely, and place them in a roasting-pan. Season with a pinch of salt, spread over a