362 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. September. During the close season a plentiful supply of very large Salmon is received from Holland; they are not, however, considered so good eating as the British Salmon. In choosing a Salmon, the freshness can always be determined by the redness of the gills and the brilliancy of the eye, which should be of a clear red and transparent. The flesh should be firm, and the fish short and round in shape, which means that it is fat and of an excellent quality. The head should be short and pointed, the back of the fish of a dark blue tint, covered with red spots, and the belly part with the appearance of silver. The whole surface is covered with small scales, packed closely together, which are very brilliant when the fish is fresh, but otherwise they are dull looking and clouded Baked Salmon.—(1) Thoroughly clean the head of a fresh Salmon, rub some salt over it, aud wrap it in thin slices of bacon, fastening them round with thread. Put the head in a stewpan with the trimmings of some fresh truffles, a bunch of thyme, basil, parsley, and laurel, pour in 1 teacupful of sherry, put the lid on the stewpan, seal it round with flour-and-water paste, put it into a moderate oven, and bake the head from two to three hours accor- ding to the size. When cooked take the head out of the stewpan, put it on a dish, and keep it hot. Skim and strain the liquor, boil it till reduced, add a little sauce, and put in six raw truffles peeled and cut in quarters. When the truffles are cooked, mix the strained juice of two lemons and a little chopped parsley with the sauce, pour it over the fish, and serve. (2) Bone some Salmon, cut it into slices, and season with cayenne pepper and salt. Roll 2oz. of butter in flour, put it in a saucepan, and melt it; then stir in 4 pint of water, 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup, and two anchovies. Put the slices of Salmon in a deep dish, strain the sauce over them, lay a sheet of buttered paper over the dish, and put it in the oven. When the Salmon is cooked take it out, and serve. (3) Clean a small Salmon, and truss it with its tail in its mouth; nib on it, outside and inside, some pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Lay the fish on a stand or trivet in a deep dish, put over it some little pieces of butter that have been rolled in flour, and place it in the oven. Baste the Salmon constantly with the drippings in the dish while baking. Baked Salmon with Cream Sauce.—Take a middle cut of Salmon; butter a large sheet of white paper and wrap the Salmon in it, pinning the ends firmly together. Melt 4oz. of butter by mixing with it 3 table-spoonfuls of boil- ing water. Lay the fish wrapped in paper in a baking- pan and pour over the butter and water. Cover it and put it in a moderate oven for an hour, lifting the cover now and then to see that the paper is not burning. Boil \ pint of cream thickened with 1 heaped table-spoonful of cornflour; add to this loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little pepper and salt. V\ hen the Salmon is taken out of the paper and dished, pour half the sauce over it, and serve the rest in a sauceboat. Boiled Salmon.—(1) Take a piece of the tail of fresh Salmon, put it into a fish-kettle with some salt, fennel, and spices in moderate quantities, \ teacupful of vinegar, and boiling water to cover. Boil the fish until tender. Salmon—continued. Prepare a sauce with 1 pint of the cooking-liquor of the fish, 1 wineglassful of white wine, two finely-minced anchovies, and boil it until somewhat reduced ; then mix with the sauce loz. of butter broken up into small pieces. Lay the Salmon on a hot dish that has been covered with folded napkins, garnish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 433), and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Clean a large Salmon, stuff it with any kind of fish stuffing desired, tie it up to its original shape, put it into a fish-kettle .with sufficient slightly-salted water to nearly cover, and boil first upon a quick fire for a few minutes, and then for about an-hour-and-three- quarters over a slow lire. Take out the fish, put it on a napkin spread on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with any desired kind of fish sauce in a sauceboat. Dutch sauce with capers is a good accompaniment. (3) Wash and dry the Salmon, stuff it until a mix- ture of butter, chopped onions, and paisley, seasoned with pepper and salt; sew the head up. Put the Salmon in a fish-kettle, and cover it with court bouillon made with red wine; when boiling, move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and cook the fish gently until done. Drain the Salmon, put it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of any sauce preferred. (4) Clean and truss a Salmon like the letter S, and boil it in salted water. Cut three large onions in slices, put them in a stewpan with a little salad oil, and fry till lightly browned; drain the oil off the onions, then put in with them three cloves, a little thyme, mace, and salt, one bay-leaf, I dessert-spoonful of sugar, 4 teacupful of port wine, 14 teacupfuls of brown gravy, and 14 pints of brown sauce; boil the sauce quickly over a brisk fire for fifteen minutes, then pass it through a fine hair sieve, and put it back in the stewpan; boil the sauce for ten minutes longer, then thicken it with loz. of anchovy butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce. Drain and put the fish on a hot dish, place a border of mashed potatoes round it, pour the sauce over the fish, and serve while very hot. (5) Put some slices of Salmon in a dish, pour over it a little boiling vinegar, and let it soak. Wrap a piece of linen round the slices of Salmon, and put them in a stew- pan with a sliced carrot and onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of basil, two bay-leaves, a shallot, a dust of spice, pepper and salt, and a small lump of butter; pour in 1 pint of red wine and a little broth. When boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for half-an-hour. When cooked leave the fish in the liquor till cold. Make a sauce by mixing with Fig. 433. Boiled Salmon. 1 breakfast-cupful of oil 1 teacupful of vinegar and some chopped chives, chervil, and sorrel. Put the Salmon on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a cold dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. (6) Lay the slices of Salmon, which should be cut about fin. thick, in a deep dish, moisten them with some boiling vinegar, and let them soak for an hour or two. After- wards wrap the fish in a piece of clean cloth, put it in a saucepan with a few slices of carrot and onion, a few sprigs of parsley and basil tied together, with a couple of bay-leaves, a shallot, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spice. Moisten to height with red wine and broth,' the former predominating, and keep Fig. 432. Salmon.