TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 197 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, sec under their special heads. Pine-apples — continued. 6 pints of simple syrup. Strain the mixture till quite clear, and Lottie it. (3) Peel a ripe Pine-apple, chop it into small pieces, put them in a mortar with Jib. of sugar, and pound them ; add J pint of water, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour, pounding all the time. Then strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid and 1 pint of clarified syrup. Pour the Pine-apple syrup into bottles, cork and wire them down, put them in a saucepan with cold water to three-parts their height, and simmer gently for six minutes. Move the pan off the fire, and leave them in the water till cold. Dip the nozzles of the bottles in bottle wax, and lay them in a reclining position in a cool dark place. Pine-apple Tarts.—(1) Procure a medium-sized Pine apple, peel and cut it into fine slices, lay them in a basin, and mix in 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Line a pie-dish with paste, spread over 1 table-spoonful of apple sauce, and arrange the Pine-apple on top. Take 3oz. more of the paste, roll it out lengthwise, 2ft. long, and fold it care- fully in two, so as to make a long narrow strip ; roll it slightly again until about 30in. long by lin. wide, paring off both sides evenly, so as to have it exactly the lin. in width. Moisten the edge of the pie with beaten egg, and arrange the strip round, fastening the two ends together, one over the other, glaze the surface of the strip with beaten egg, place the pie in a moderate oven, and let it bake for fifty minutes. Remove to the door, dredge the pie well with powdered loaf sugar, return to the oven for two minutes to allow the sugar to melt, spread evenly over the top 2oz. of sweet jelly, and serve. (2) Take a large Pine-apple, pare, and cut it into small pieces, lay them in a deep dish, mix with them Jib. of powdered white sugar, cover the dish, and let it stand till enough juice has run from the fruit to stew it in. In the meantime make some puff paste, roll it out, and line a couple of soup-plates with it; crimp the edges and bake the paste in a quick oven. Stew the Pine-apple in the sugar and its own juice till quite soft, then put it away to cool. When the pastry in the soup-plates is baked and cold, and the stewed Pine-apple cold also, mix with the fruit J pint of cream, and fill the shells of pastry with it. Dredge plenty of powdered white sugar over the tops, and serve. Pine-apple Toddy.—Cut off the rind of a Pine-apple moderately thick, put it into a jar with a few cloves, pour over lqt. of boiling water, and let it stand for a day or so. Pass the liquor through a cloth or jelly-bag, sweeten to taste, put it into bottles, cork securely, and let it remain for about three days, by which time it will be ready for use. Pine-apple Water Ice.—Cut a small-sized ripe Pine-apple into halves and put one half away for further use, pare the other half neatly, cut it into small pieces, place them in a mortar, and pound thoroughly to a pulp; ten minutes will suffice for this. Add Jib. of powdered sugar, and pound again for five minutes; transfer the whole into a vessel, squeeze in the juice of three lemons, pour in lqt. of cold water, and mix well with the spatula for two minutes. Strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, adding the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth’ beat well for one minute longer, and freeze. Preserved Grated Pine-apple.—Peel a Pine apple, and grate it on a coarse grater, throwing away the core. Weigh it, and put it in a preserving-pan with lib. of crushed loaf sugar for each pound of fruit. Let it stand all night. In the morning, stand the pan over the fire and stir the contents till boiling, then move it off' at once. When cooled, put the Pine apple mixture into o-lass jars and stopper them down tightly. Preserved Pine-apple.—Carefully peel some perfectly ripe Pine apples and cut them into slices. Weigh the' fruit, arid allow fib. of crushed loaf sugar for each pound, put them in a preserving-pan in layers, with sugar between each layer, leave them for one night, then on the following day put the pan over a clear but rather slow fire. When Pine-apples—continued. the slices of Pine-apple are very hot, but not softened, take them out with a perforated ladle, draining each slice, and lay them on a dish. Let the syrup continue boiling until thickly reduced. Pack the slices in glass jars, pour in each J wineglassful of rum and sufficient of the syrup to fill them, and let them get quite cold. When ready, put in each jar a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down tightly. Pack them away in a dry store-cupboard. Sugared Pine-apple.—Peel and slice some perfectly sound and quite ripe Pine-apples, take out the eyes with a sharp knife, and when the fruit is prepared weigh it, and to every pound of fruit use ] fib. of sugar, which should be white and finely powdered. The slices of fruit should be cut about Jin. thick. Lay them in a glass jar with a thick layer of sugar over each, placing first a slice of Pine-apple, then a layer of sugar, then a slice of Pine- apple, then sugar, and so on, till the jar is full. Cover the jar air-tight, and keep it in a cool place till the Pine- apple is required for use. If the air is perfectly excluded from the fruit, it will keep for a long time. The following receipts are prepared with Pine-apples preserved in tins, and are favourites in most of our British kitchens: Tinned Pine-apple and Biscuit Cream.—Soak foz. of sheet gelatine in a small quantity of water, then strain it, and put it in a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of tinned Pine apple, 1 breakfast-cupful of the juice, and 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved. Mix J teacupful of pounded Spanish nuts with 1 teacupful of water to a paste, then stir them in with the fruit. Stand the stewpan at the edge of the fire, and stir in quickly the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Turn the mixture into a basin, and beat it occasionally until cold. Whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them lightly in with the cream. Serve it in small glasses. Tinned Pine-apple Bonbons in Cases.—Boil fib. of crushed loaf sugar to the 38deg., and when cool, work it with the spatula against the sides of the pan till it becomes white. Mix with it some chopped tinned Pine-apple, put it into small paper cases, and dry them in a hot closet. Tinned Pine-apple Charlotte.—Put Joz. of soaked gelatine into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of the juice from a tin of Pine-apple and a scant table-spoonful of caster sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved, then put in about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the Pine apple, and stew it gently until tender. Butter a plain mould, line it with slices of sponge cake, pour the Pine-apple in gently, and let it get cool. Put 6 table- spoonfuls of cornflour in a basin, mix it smoothly with lqt. of milk, and sweeten with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; turn it into a lined saucepan, stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly three well-beaten eggs. Pour the custard carefully over the Pine apple, then put it in a moderate oven and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the charlotte out of the oven, and leave it until cold. When ready to serve, dip the mould into boiling water, wipe it,. and turn the charlotte out on to a glass or fancy china dish. Tinned Pine-apple Cream.—Use Jib. of tinned Pine-apple, keeping two slices of it back, cut the remainder into small pieces, and put them in a preserving-pan with 2 table- spoonfuls of crushed loaf sugar, the syrup from the tin, 1 dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, and I teacupful of water. Put the pan over the fire, let the contents simmer for a- quarter-of-an-hour, then add foz. of gelatine that has soaked in J teacupful of water, and continue stirring till it has quite dissolved; pass all through a coarse sieve, and leave it till cool. Whip J pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, pour it gently in with the Pine-apple mixture, and add the two pieces of Pine apple cut into small squares. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the cream, and leave it till firm. Turn the shape out of the mould on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve.