THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 324 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. Glazed Rice.—Thoroughly wash 4 pint of Rice, put it in a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil it till tender. Drain the Rice on a sieve, and pour 4 teacupful of syrup oyer it. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan with a small piece of lemon-peel and boil it. Beat the yolks of four eggs with Jib. of caster sugar, pour in gradually the boiling milk, turn it into the saucepan, and stir it by the fire until thick, without allowing it to boil. Pass' the thickened mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stir it over ice till it has cooled, then mix with it 1 \ pints of whipped cream. Put a layer of the cream mixture in a cheese mould, then a layer of Rice, next a layer of the cream, and so on, until all is used. Cover the mould with a sheet of paper, then fix the lid on, pack the mould in pounded salt and ice, and leave it for an hour or two. When ready for serving dip the mould in warm water, then wipe it, pass the blade of a knife between the sides of the mould and the Rice, and turn it quickly out on to a dish covered with an ornamental dish-paper. Gratin of Rice.—Put 2oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with more than sufficient milk to cover it, and boil slowly until the Rice is soft; add half-a-dozen each of sweet and bitter almonds, blanched, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve, sweeten to taste with sugar, and sprinkle in a little salt. Turn the preparation into a gratin-dish, cover with a piece of paper, and let it remain over a slew fire to gratin or brown for about an hour. Rice cooked in this way requires to be served very hot in the dish it was cooked in. Ground-Rice Biscuits.—(1) Rub 2oz. of butter smoothly into ilb. of ground Rice, and mix with it 4oz. of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, the grated rind of a small lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs, beat the yolks up with a little milk, and stir it in with the above ingredients; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in with the mixture. Butter some small biscuit-tins, fill them with the mixture, and bake for five minutes in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the biscuits out of their tins, and leave them until cold; then pack them away in biscuit-tins, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (2) Mix well together J2lb. each of ground Rice, flour, pow- dered white sugar, and butter. Then break two eggs into the centre of the mixture, and gradually work it into a stiff dough ; form this into small biscuits, and bake them on tin sheets to a light brown, being careful not to let them burn. Let them cool thoroughly, ami store them in a tight-shutting tin canister. Ground-Rice Blanc mange.—(1) Mix l|oz. of ground Rice and foz. of arrowroot with 1 pint of fresh milk in which a small quantity of cream has been mixed, sweeten it with loaf sugar, but do not make it very sweet, and flavour it with cinnamon, orange essence, or laurel-leaf. Put it in a saucepan over the fire, stir well, and boil it for rather more than half-an-hour; then pour it into a mould that has been well wetted inside with cold water, let it stand till quite cold, and then turn it out. (2) Put over the fire 1 pint of milk and 3 table-spoonfuls of loaf sugar, and flavour with either essence of lemons or almonds. Mix till quite smooth 1 teacupful of ground Rice with 1 pint of milk. When the milk on the fire commences to boil, mix the batter in with it, and stir it over the fire for about ten minutes, till it is thick. Pour the Rice into a wetted mould, and leave it till cold and firm. When ready to serve, turn the blanc-mange out of the mould on to a fancy dish, and garnish round it with any kind of preserved compote or jam that may be desired. Ground Rice and cornflour make a very similar blanc-mange. Ground-Rice Buns.—Slightly warm 4oz. of butter and beat it till creamy; then mix slowly with it 4oz. of caster sugar and 4oz. of ground Rice. When quite smooth, mix in 41b. of sifted flour, two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to make the whole into a stiff batter. Spread a sheet of buttered white paper over a baking-sheet, drop the mixture on it in equal-sized quantities,put them into a brisk oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. When cooked, take the buns off the paper, and lay them on a dish. Rice—continued. Ground-Rice Cake.—(1) Put fib. of sugar in a 1 iasin with a little grated orange-peel, 1 pinch of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs, and stir them together till smooth and light; then add the well-beaten whites of the eight eggs, and sift in 6oz. of ground-Rice. When the above ingredients are well mixed, turn it into a savoy cake-mould that has been brushed over with warmed butter. The mixture should not rise to more than three parts the height of the mould. Bake the cake in a moderate oven. (2) Beat seven eggs well, then work in with them 41b. each of ground Rice and caster sugar, 1 wineglassful of gin, and a few drops of essence of lemons or almonds; beat all the above ingredients together for twenty minutes. Line a cake-tin with well-buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a brisk oven. It will require about three-quarters-of-an-hour, and can be tried by run- ning a skewer down the middle; if this comes out perfectly clean, the cake is done. (3) Put 41b. of butter in a saucepan, and place it over the fire until hot; then mix in gradually fib. of ground Rice, and stir it over a slow fire for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Blanch 4oz. of sweet almonds, put them into the mixture, and stir it for two or three minutes longer. Mix 14 pints each of boiling milk and boiling syrup with it, put the lid on the saucepan, and leave it for five or ten minutes. Stir the mixture well, then set it in small quantities with a table-spoon on a hot dish, leaving the mark of the spoon on each, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. (4) Put a little more than 111), of butter in a saucepan and place it over the fire until melted ; then stir in by degrees 4 table-spoonfuls each of flour, ground Rice, and powdered starch. Continue stirring the mixture over the fire until slightly browned, then mix in 5 table-spoonfuls of blanched and skinned almonds, and stir it for a few minutes longer; then add to the mixture 2| pints of boil- ing syrup and 14 pints of boiling milk; move the sauce- pan off' the fire, put the lid on, and leave it for a-quarter- of-an-hour. At the end of that time, put a few drops of rose-water in the cake, and stir it vigorously with a wooden spoon. Turn it on to a hot dish, building it dome- shaped, dust it with a small quantity of powdered cin- namon, and serve. (5) Put lib. of ground Rice into a basin, and mix with it 6oz. of chopped sultanas and I40Z. of thinly-shred citron- peel. Slightly warm 111), of butter, mix fib. of caster sugar with it, and beat it until creamy; then beat in six whole eggs one at a time. Stir the beaten mixture in with the dry ingredients, mixing the whole smoothly and well. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake it in a brisk oven; if it begins to colour too darkly on the top, cover it with a sheet of paper. This cake can be kept for two or three weeks if put in a tin with a cover to it. (6) Warm slightly fib. of butter, and beat it until creamy, mixing in gradually with it }2lb. of caster sugar. Next mix in 4lb. of ground Rice and four eggs, also a few drops of any kind of flavouring liked. Butter some patty-pans and three parts fill them with the above mixture, put them into a good oven, and bake for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the cakes out of the pans, and when cold keep them in a dry place. (7) Work 21b. of butter on a marble slab to extract the water, then warm it slightly. Mix with the butter 21b. of caster sugar, and work it with the hands for a few minutes; then beat in, one by one, twenty eggs; when well beaten, sift in 2flb. of flour, fib. of ground Rice, and beat that also. Flavour the cake mixture with a little essence of lemon. Butter some cake-tins, turn the mixture into them, and bake the cakes in a moderate oven. (8) Beat lflb. of butter together with 141b. of caster sugar till creamy; then add ten well-beaten eggs, and beat them for a few minutes longer. Mix together 41b. of flour, 41b. of ground Rice, loz. of cream of tartar, and f-oz. of carbonate of soda. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into small hoops with paper round the sides, and bake them. When cooked, leave for two or three minutes, then take them out of the hoops.