THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 403 SAUERBRATEN.—Ger. for literally sour roast. It is one of the national dishes of Germany, and as such requires special notice. Put a piece of lean beef in a shallow pie-dish, pour h pint of common vinegar over it, and leave for two or three days, turning it occasionally, and basting so that each part may be equally soaked. When ready to cook the meat, drain it from the vinegar, and dry it on a clean cloth. Cut some strips of fat bacon about 1 iin. long and |in. wide, and season them with a mixture of pounded cloves, salt, .and pepper. With a large wooden skewer bore some holes in the meat, and insert the pieces of bacon in them. Procure an iron saucepan that will just hold the meat, put a good-sized lump of butter in it, make it hot, put in the beef, and place it over a sharp fire ; dredge it with flour, and turn it when one side is browned. Peel and cut into quarters two or three carrots and one large onion, put them in with the beef, add two hay- leaves, the thinly-pared rind of half a small lemon, a dozen peppercorns, one blade of mace, and a moderate quantity of salt; moisten with 2§ breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, put the lid on the pan, and let the contents steam slowly for about two-hours-and-a-half, moistening occasionally with more water if becoming too dry. When cooked, take the beef out, put it on a hot dish near the fire, and arrange the pieces of carrot round it. Skim the cooking-liquor, thicken it with flour, and if desired give it a sharper taste with a little lemon or vinegar ; boil it, strain a little over the meat, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. SAUERKRAUT.—See Sour-Crout. SAUSAGES (Fr. Saucisses; Ger. Wurste; Ital. Salsiccie; Sp. Salchichas).—These are described by Webster as articles of food consisting of meat, minced and highly seasoned, and enclosed in a cylindrical case or Fig. 467. Salad served with dressing in Sauce-boats. Fig. 468. Digester Saucepan. Pig. 468) is a good example of what a Saucepan should be. The name is now applied to almost any vessel that is used for the purpose of boiling. _ SAUCERS.—Although this is described as a small dish, somewhat deeper than a plate, in which a cup is set at table, it was originally intended to hold sauce; our term is an evident adaptation of the French sauciere. SAUCISSES.—Fr. for Sausages. Fjg. 469. Sausage-machine (A. Lyon). skin usually made of the prepared intestine of some animal; but, according to the less erudite, they are simply “ Bags of Mystery.” There is probably more reason for this nickname, if the statement of Dr. Walsh, in his “ Manual of Domestic Economy,” is to he credited. He says “the quantity of inferior meat thus consumed is enormous.” It is well-known that in Birmingham, Liver- pool, Manchester, and other large manufacturing towns, very inferior meat finds a ready sale at less than half the price of the ordinary quality, and this is soon converted into some one or other of the various forms enumerated above by the agency of the Sausage-machine. Of Sausage-machines much might he written—many times more than the interest of the subject demands— without exhausting the details of their working. From the hand machine (see Fig. 469) to that worked by steam Sauces—continued. of soy, four cloves of garlic, and 2oz. of cayenne pepper, and let it stand for a week, shaking it frequently. Then add another bottle of vinegar to it, and let it stand another week. Strain it, put it into small bottles, and cork it well. SAUCEBOATS.—Small vessels of various shapes and designs (see Figs. 466 and 467) in which sauce is served to sauce, the boat is set in its own tray and is then served separately. SAUCEPANS.—Culinary vessels made of iron and tinned or enamelled inside, in which sauces were pro- bably originally made. The digester Saucepan (see Fig. 466. Boiled Fish with Sauce in Boat. at table. In the illustrations the Sauceboats are served in the dish, surrounded by the food the sauce is intended to season. But, as most persons prefer to help themselves For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 D 2