TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 281 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. QUASSIA.—The bitter wood of the Picrsena excelsa, used chiefly for making bitters, or as a substitute for hops in inferior beers. QUEEN’S BREAD.—See Bread. QUEEN’S CAKES.—See Cakes. QUEEN’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. QUEEN’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. QUEEN’S SOUP.—See Soups. QUEIMADO. —This is a kind of punch manufactured by the Portuguese in Bombay; it is made of the liquor of the cocoa-nut palm, well spiced and seasoned, and is drunk hot. QUENELLES.—These are described in old cookery books as a kind of delicate forcemeat, either forming a dish by themselves, or made into balls and used for gar- nishing. Kettner says, “ Quenelle is one of the many words of the French kitchen which Frenchmen—learned and simple—have given up as inscrutable. It is the name for the most delicate forcemeat, which French cooks prepare sometimes from chickens, sometimes from whitings, sometimes from game, but originally from young rabbits. Quenelle is a doublet of the old French name for a young rabbit—connil. a little cony, and it is formed from the Latin cuniculus in the same way as the French name for a distaff (Quenouille) is formed from conucula, a corruption of the Latin colucula. Quenelle of rabbit, therefore, is a pleonasm, meaning a little cony of rabbit, and Quenelle of chicken is an absurdity, meaning a little cony of chicken.” By force of habit cooks have come to speak of Quenelle as Quenelles when the forcemeat is made up into balls for garnishes or other purposes. The art of moulding these consists principally in keeping them of equal size and the surfaces quite smooth; this is accomplished by the aid of two spoons : one is filled with the forcemeat, the piled sur- face being smoothed over with a knife, and the second spoon is then dipped in boiling water and pressed over the top of the Quenelle, moulding it to its own shape. By a gentle rotatory movement the shape of the Quenelle is perfected (see Fig. 335), and it is then ready for cooking. Receipts for special Quenelles will be found under their different headings. Butch Quenelle.—Make some forcemeat, either game, chicken, or veal, put it into a mortar, beat it well, and mix in two beaten eggs. Line a plain mould with some thin slices of fat bacon, fdl it with the forcemeat, and press well down. Put the mould into a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam the con- tents for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the Quenelle out on to a hot dish, removing all the bacon, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce. Quenelle Soup.—Pour 1 teacupful of water into a saucepan on the fire, add a small piece of butter and 1 pinch of salt, stir well until it boils, add sufficient flour to form a moderately thick paste, turn it out on to a dish, and set it away to cool. Cut ilb. of lean veal into small pieces and pound them well in a mortar, adding gradually 2oz. of the above paste and 3oz. of butter; beat well together, Quenelles—continued. then add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and season to taste with grated nutmeg, salt, ami pepper. Rub the whole through a fine sieve, adding a small quantity of cream, and with the aid of two teaspoons form the mass into Quenelles. Place them side by side in a saucepan, pour in carefully sufficient boiling stock to cover them, and cook gently for a few minutes. Pour the required quantity of highly-flavoured stock or broth into a tureen, add the Quenelles, and serve hot. The stock in which they 'were cooked may also be added if desired. Quenelles for Soups and Entrees.—Put into a basin the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs, half their weight of hot boiled potatoes, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little cayenne and salt, and the yolk of one egg, and mash all tvell together. Make the mixture into balls the size of cherries, using flour on the hands, drop these into a stew- pan of boiling water, and poach for a minute or two; then take them up with a skimmer and drop them into the soup a few minutes before serving. Quenelles for Stuffed Soles.—Remove the skin and bones from about ili). of raw whiting, and put the fish in a mortar with 2oz. of butter and about 1 teacupful of finely- grated breadcrumb. Pound the mixture thoroughly, add one egg, season with salt and pepper, rub it through a fine hair or wire sieve, mould it into small balls, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain the Quenelles, and serve them with the stuffed soles. Stuffed Quenelles.—Put loz. of gelatine in a basin, cover it with cold water, and soak for an hour. Trim off all the skin from the flesh of a chicken, pick the meat from the bones, chop it finely, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth; then mix with it 1 table-spoonful of chopped and pounded pork, and pass the 'whole through a fine hair sieve. Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of stale breadcrumbs and milk in a small saucepan, and boil for ten minutes, stirring at the same time to keep it smooth. Mix the breadcrumbs with the pounded meat, season with 1 tea- spoonful each of onion-juice and lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste; add 6oz. of warmed butter, 1 teacupful of white stock or cream, the yolks of three eggs, and lastly the well-beaten whites, and work the mixture till quite smooth. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan together with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till smooth but not browned; stir in gradually 1 pint of cream, 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice, a small pinch of mace, plenty of salt and pepper, and boil for two minutes ; then stir in the soaked gelatine, and remove it from the fire. Mix 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cold cooked chicken in the sauce, and set it away till cool. Butter eighteen egg-cups, line them with a thick layer of the forcemeat, fill the centre with the chicken and-sauce mixture (it should have become quite firm), then cover it with the forcemeat. Stand the egg-cups in a steamer, place a sheet of paper over them, put the lid on the steamer, set it over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the Quenelles for thirty minutes, without allowing the water to boil too rapidly. When cooked, take them up and put them away till cool. Turn the Quenelles out of the egg-cups, dip them well in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry for three or four minutes in boiling fat to lightly colour them. Drain the Quenelles, put them on a hot dish, garnish with stoned olives, and serve. Sweet Quenelles.—Beat the whites of three or four eggs to a stiff snow, and sweeten to taste with crushed loaf sugar. Take them up in table-spoonfuls, and lay them in a tureen of hot milk soup. QUILLAIA BARK. —This is obtained from a tree which is a native of Chili (Quillaja saponaria), and is used in infusion to impart a soapiness to water; hence it is utilised by aerated-water makers to give a head to ginger ale, and other effervescing beverages. QUINCES (Fr. Coings; Ger. Quitten).—“The Quince has gone out of fashion,” remarks Kettner, “and it is natural that when the best fruits of the tropics are brought to our shores quickly in ships we should