287 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. into collops, put them into a stewpan with sliced truffles, button-mushrooms, and collops of tongue, also 4 pint of white sauce, and heat them. L ish up in the form of a dome, pour a little of the sauce over the blanquette, garnish with the croquettes, and serve. Boiled Rabbit.—Skin and clean a young Rabbit, truss it, put it in a basin of warm water, and let it soak for two hours or so, changing the water frequently. Take it out, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, put in a lump of stale breadcrumb, place the saucepan on a good clear fire, and boil for from thirty to forty-five minutes. Take out the Rabbit when done, remove the skewers, put it on a dish, cover it with thick onion sauce, and serve. If desired a bunch of sweet herbs may be boiled with the Rabbit to give it a flavour; and it may be served with finely- chopped onions, fried in butter, well seasoned, and thickened with bechamel sauce. A few slices of fried or broiled bacon or salt pork should always accompany it. Boiled Rabbits and Celery.—Prepare the Rabbits, and boil them. Trim and wash three heads of fine white celery, cut it into pieces about lin. long, put them into a saucepan, cover them well with water, add a small lump of salt, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain the celery, lay it in a stewpan with \ pint of milk and 2oz. of butter that has been kneaded with loz. of flour, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Shake the celery over the fire until the butter has melted and the sauce thickened. Drain the Rabbits, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with small rolled slices of ham and tongue, and serve. Boudins of Rabbits.—Put l£lb. of the flesh of a young wild Rabbit into a mortar, pound it well, and nib it through a fine sieve. Put lib. of panada (made with rice-flour and broth) into a mortar, and work it well; when it is quite cold, add the Rabbit pulp, and pound again for seven or eight minutes; then add Jib. of warm butter. When all these are thoroughly incorporated, mix in the yolks of three eggs and salt and pepper to taste, and work well for two or three minutes longer; then rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, and add 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs. Turn the mixture out on to a large sheet of paper, making it into an oblong shape, fasten the paper round, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water for a couple of seconds. Remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let the forcemeat poach for ten or twelve minutes, taking care not to let the water boil again. Take it out, unwrap it, let it get cold, cut it into long slices, dip these in egg, breadcrumb them well, put them in a frying-pan with a lritle butter, and cook them on both sides until they are brown. Have ready about lqt. of green peas, boiled in salted water and thickened with white sauce and hutter; put this in a dome shape in the centre of a dish, place the boudins round it, overlapping one another, and serve. Boudins of Rabbit with. Celery Sauce.—Finely mince the white flesh of one or two Rabbits, put it in a mortar, pound it till quite smooth, and pass it through a fine wire sieve. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in 3 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir in smoothly a sufficient quantity of boiling water to make a thick paste; stir it until it leaves the sides of the stewpan clean, then let it cool. Mix with the pounded Rabbit half its quantity of the above paste and a quarter of its quantity of butter. Pound the whole together in the mortar, season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of powdered spices, and pass the mixture again through the sieve. Work in gradually four or five yolks of eggs and three whites. Butter some small tin moulds, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling- water to three-parts their height, and steam for half- an-hour. Meanwhile prepare a thick puree of celery, flavouring it nicely, and turn it into a hot dish; when the boudins are cooked, turn them out of their tins on to it, and serve as soon as possible. Braised Rabbit with Pistachio-nuts.—Clean and truss a large Rabbit as for roasting. Boil Jib. of rice, and when tender mix with it 3oz. of blanched and finely-chopped pistachio Rabbits—continued. nuts and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped sultana raisins. Stuff the Rabbit with this mixture. Pound two or three small onions to extract the juice. Rub the Rabbit well over with curry-powder and then with the onion juice. Put |lb. of butter in a braising-pan, melt it, put in the Rabbit, and braise it gently at the side of the fire, turning it occasionally; at the last, put it right over the fire and brown it. Put a heaped teacupful of well-washed rice into a stewpan with 2oz. each of blanched and sliced pis- tachio-nuts and almonds, 3oz. of sultana raisins, and sufficient white stock to cook them in. When done, strain the rice and other ingredients, pour them over the Rabbit, and stir them up well with the hutter. Fry a few thin slices of streaky bacon and tie them up in rolls. Place the Rabbit on a hot dish with the rice, &c., round it, garnish with the rolls of bacon, and serve while very hot. Broiled Rabbit.—(1) Skin and clean a Rabbit, cut it up into joints (four limbs and loin), wrap each one separately in pieces of well-buttered paper, put them in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and broil until done, tvuning' them frequently so as to cook on both sides. When cooked, remove the papers, put the pieces of Rabbit on a dish (see Fig. 341), mask them with a little anchovy or maitre- d’hotel butter, and serve very hot. (2) Skin, draw, and behead two or three young Rabbits, chop off the limbs and cut out the loins, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them for a few minutes to set the flesh. Take them out, drain them, dip them into well-beaten eggs, cover them well with breadcrumbs, dip them into clarified butter, put them on a warm gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until they are well done on both sides. Pour a little hot rich gravy on a dish, place the pieces of Rabbit on it, and serve. Broiled Rabbits in Paper Cases.—Skin and clean a couple of young Rabbits, cut them up into joints, and take out all the large bones. Prepare a stuffing 'with parsley, bacon, breadcrumbs, garlic, mushrooms, shallots, and salt and pepper. Cover the pieces of Rabbits over with this, wrap them round with a thin slice of fat bacon, put them into paper cases that have been well buttered, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Take them off, arrange them in their cases on a dish, and serve. Civet of Rabbit.—Clean a Rabbit, disjoint it, and cut the body into four pieces Cut 41b. of lean salt pork into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and toss it over the fire until the butter has melted; then put in the pieces of Rabbit, and fry them till lightly browned. Dredge them over with 1 table-spoonful of flour, pour in 4 pint each of claret and broth, add eight or ten small onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and two cloves, and put the stewpan over the fire until the contents boil; then move it to the side, and let them simmer gently until the Rabbit is tender. When cooked, put the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish, arrange the onions round them, strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve or strainer over them, and serve. Colloped Rabbits.—Cut the fillets of two or three Rabbits into collops, and place them round the inside of a well- buttered dish, with thick slices of truffles between them.