418 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Serviettes—continued. Arum Lily, No 1.—This requires a perfectly square table- napkin. Have it open on the table with a point to- wards you; fold this point over to the opposite one, forming a half handkerchief, then make the two end points meet on the centre one so that the design forms a square. Take the bottom corner, and fold it as in Fig. 493; turn the napkin over, roll the left-hand point till near the centre, take the right hand point and tuck it securely into the outside fold on the left. Stand the napkin up, and hold it firmly whilst you bend over the two side points, leaving the centre one as shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. Arum Lily, No. 2.—If the Serviette be not quite square, the design can still be made by folding like a half c n handkerchief, but allowing the points to separate, as in Fig. 494. Bring point B to meet D, and A to meet c (Fig. 495); take point E, and turn it back twice, as shown in Fig. 493. Turn the Serviette over, and cross the two For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Serviettes—continued. sides, tucking one securely into the folds of the other; stand up the Serviette, and just turn over the side points leaving two upright in the centre, as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. Arum Lily, No. 3.—Commence as in Arum Lily, No. 1, by taking a perfectly square napkin, fold it like a half handkerchief as directed, then make the two end points meet on the centre one: this will represent a square. Take the bottom corner, turn it up towards the top corner, leaving a third of the napkin at the top ; then bend this point back again on itself in 2in. folds, as in Fig. 496a. Turn the napkin over, take both side points, and fasten them firmly by tucking the right-hand corner into the left-hand fold. Stand the Serviette up, and bend over the outside points to form the leaves, as in Fig. 496. The height of this design is regulated by the amount taken for the folds which form the base of the complete design. B.A.—This style cannot be done with a square napkin—- a good size is 27in. by 23in., and this is easily Fig 497. The B.A. managed by folding in a portion of an ordinary Serviette. Lay the napkin lengthwise before you, double the bottom s, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.