THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Rhubarb —continued. of boiling water and mix it with the Rhubarb, add lib. of crushed loaf sugar, and boil the whole for fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. Flavour with a few drops of essence of lemon. Pour the Rhubarb into a buttered mould, and keep it for several hours in a cool place. Pre- pare the following custard: Beat the yolks of two eggs in h pint of milk, pour them into a small lined sauce- pan^ sweeten to taste, and flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla; stir the custard over the fire until thickened, but it must not boil or the eggs will curdle, then put it away to get cold. When ready to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, turn the Rhubarb on to a glass dish, and pour the custard round it. See Fig. 374. (2) Cut some Rhubarb into small pieces, boil them until tender, and rub through a fine sieve sufficient to fill a quart measure. Return to the saucepan, and add 4oz. of gelatine dis solved in hot water and lib. of crushed loaf sugar. Boil well for about a-quarter-of-an-hour, add a flavouring of essence of lemon, and pour the preparation into a mould. Turn it out on to a dish when cold and firm, pour round rich custard, and serve. Rhubarb Cider.—Pick about 2Slb. of good Rhubarb, cut it into 2in. pieces, put them into a tub, pound them well, pour over 3galls. of water, stir well, cover with a cloth, and let the liquor ferment. As soon as the fer- ment rises to the surface, skim it off, put it on a sieve, and return any liquor that drains from it back into the tub. Continue in this way until no more scum rises; then pour it (with the exception of about tgall.) into a cask, add 31b. of loaf sugar to each gallon, and leave it for about a fortnight or until the after fermentation has ceased ; then pour in the remaining tglll., having first dissolved 4oz. of gelatine in it, and bottle oft' in about two months’ time from then. Rhubarb Cream.—Cut a bundle of Rhubarb into lin. lengths, skinning where necessary, put them in a pie-dish with a very small quantity of water, plenty of moist sugar, and a few thinly-shred pieces of lemon-peel; butter and line the edges of the dish with a good crust, cover the top with crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, take off the to] > crust, which cut into small squares or diamond-shaped pieces. Colour 1 pint of thick cream slightly with cochineal, and whisk it to a stiff snow, gathering off the froth as it rises and putting it on a fine sieve. Pile the cream on the top of the Rhubarb, put the pieces of crust all over it, and serve. This makes a very pretty dish, which can either be served wliile the Rhubarb is hot or when cold. Rhubarb Cream-Ice.—Peel sufficient Rhubarb to make 3 pints, cut it into small pieces, put them into a preserving- pan, add 1 pinch of salt, and cover with cold water. Stew the Rhubarb gently until tender, then drain it, put it in a stewpan with 7,11 >. of preserving-sugar, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a pulp; pass the puree through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 1 pint of cream and some more sugar if required. Put the Rhubarb mixture into a freezing-pot, work it till frozen, then turn it into a mould, and pack it in ice till required for use. Rhubarb—continued. Rhubarb Tool.—(1) Boil 3 pints of peeled and chopped Rhubarb in salted water till tender. Strain the Rhubarb, pass it through a fine hail sieve into a stewpan with Sugar to taste, and stir it over the fire for about ten minutes. Turn the Rhubarb puree into a glass dish, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and serve. (2) Cut a small bundle of Rhubarb into convenient lengths, put it into a stewpan with a small quantity of water and plenty of sugar, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till tender. When cooked, drain the Rhubarb, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and leave it until cool. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and pour in gradually 1 pint of milk ; sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and grate in the peel of a small lemon. Turn the custard into a lined saucepan, and stir it over a gentle fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, but it should not quite boil or the eggs will curdle. When cooked, let the custard get cold, beat it up gradually then with the Rhubarb, pile it on a glass dish, grate a small quantity of nutmeg over the top, and serve. Rhubarb Fritters. -Cut some sticks of young Rhubarb into pieces about lin. long, and boil them in water for ten minutes; then drain, and put them into cold water. When quite cold, drain the pieces of Rhubarb, lay them on a dish, strew caster sugar over them, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of brandy, and let them marinade for an hour or two. Dip the pieces of Rhubarb in some frying-batter, put them in boiling lard, and fry them a nice colour. Drain on paper for a minute or two to absorb the fat, place them nicely on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or a fancy dish- paper, and serve. Rhubarb Ginger.—Trim 31b. of Rhubarb, rub the stalks well with a damp towel, then cut them into small equal lengths. Bruise coarsely loz. of whole ginger, put it at the bottom of an earthenware jar, then pack on the top of it in alternate layers the Rhubarb and 31b. of lump sugar, and leave for two days. Strain oft the syrup from the Rhubarb, pour it into a preserving pan, and stir it over a clear fire with a wooden spoon until boiling. Pour the syrup over the contents of the jar, and let them stand for twenty-four hours. At the end - of that time pour the syrup, Rhubarb, and ginger into the preserving- pan, and stir it over a brisk fire until boiling; then move it to the side and let it simmer for half-an-hour, keeping it well skimmed. Turn the preserve into jars, and leave it until cold ; then dip some rounds of white paper in spirits, place one on the top of each jar, then cover with stout paper, and tie them down. Keep the preserve in a dry store-cupboard for use. Rhubarb-and-Ginger Jam. —Trim off the tops of some Rhubarb, skin it, and cut it into pieces about 2in. in length. Weigh the Rhubarb, put it into a preserving- pan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until soft. For each pound of Rhubarb put in lib. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar. Keep it well stirred, and continue boiling .it till reduced to a thick syrup. For every pound of sugar put in a basin 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger, and mix it to a smooth paste with a small quantity of water; then stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of the syrup. Mix the ginger with the fruit, stir it well, and boil for a few minutes longer. Pour the jam into jars, and leave it until cold. Dip some rounds of white paper, cut the same size as the tops of the jars, in white of egg, then put one on the topi of each jar, and tie them over with stout paper or parchment. Keep them in a cool dry cup- board. Rhubarb Jam.—(1) Peel and trim several stalks of Rhubarb, weigh them, and allow to each pound of Rhubarb lib. of sugar and one lemon. Take a large bowl and pare as thinly as possible the yellow rind off a lemon into it; then cut off and throw away the white part of the skin, and slice the pulp of the lemon into the bowl, taking out and throwing away the pips. Cut the Rhubarb into pieces about Ain. thick, put it into the bowl, on the top of the lemon, and put the sugar on top of the Rhubarb, letting it all stand for a night. Next morning