236 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. pepper, and cover the fish with a thick layer of them. Return the pie to the oven until the Potatoes are nicely browned over the top. Serve hot. (5) Steam or boil a dozen or so Potatoes, cut them up in slices, and put them in a saucepan of syrup seasoned with whole cloves or allspice; set the pan on the fire and scald the Potatoes, then remove it from the fire and let the liquor cool. Line a deep pie-dish with a light paste, bake it, arrange the slices of Potato in it, spread over a lump of butter pulled into small pieces, and pour over 1 wine- glassful of Madeira or brandy. Set the dish in the oven, and when the pie is thoroughly browned, take it out, and serve on a napkin (see Fig. 298). A little caster sugar may be sifted over the pie. Potatoes with. Piquant Sauce.—Peel and chop an onion, put it in a stewpan with 4oz. of fat bacon cut into small pieces, and fry them until lightly browned. Mix 1 table- spoonful of flour in a small quantity of water until smooth, then stir it in with the onions, &c.; pour in 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar, and stir them over the fire until boiling. Partially boil the required quantity of Potatoes, then drain, and cut them into slices, put them in with the above ingredients, and boil gently until tender. They should not be overdone or they will break. When cooked, arrange the slices on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve them. Potato Pone.—Peel and grate sufficient sweet Potatoes to fill a quart bowl, working very quickly so that they may not become discoloured; mix with the pulp J pint of sweet milk, 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered ginger, and Jib. of butter beaten to a cream with Jib. of sugar; if oranges are in season, add the grated rind and juice of one. Pour the batter thus made into a buttered pan, and bake the pone in a moderate oven for about an hour, or until the Potato is quite done. Potato Pudding.—(1) Peel and boil six large Potatoes, and when cooked mash them through a fine hair sieve; mix with them the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, a few drops of essence of lemon, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly. Butter a pudding-mould, strew in some grated breadcrumbs, and shake out those that do not adhere to the butter; then pour in the Potato mixture, and bake it in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sweet sauce, either poured over or in a sauceboat. (2) Bake a few large Potatoes in a slow oven, and when tender grate them. Butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of the grated Potatoes, dust in a little salt, spread a layer of marmalade over, then put in another layer of Potato, and so on, until the dish is full, squeezing a few drops of lemon-juice between each layer. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of milk, flavour it with any kind of essence liked, and pour it over the Potatoes. Bake the pudding in a good oven, and when nicely cooked and browned, turn it into a hot dish, sift plenty of caster sugar over it, and serve hot. (3) Grate about lib. of cold boiled, rather firm Potatoes. Slightly warm 6oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 6oz. of caster sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls of blanched and pounded sweet almonds. Separate the yolks and Potatoes—continued. whites of nine eggs, beat the yolks first by them- selves and then in with the butter mixture, and when they are well incorporated work in the Potato-Hour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow and stir them into the mixture. Thickly butter a mould, pour the mixture into it, tie a pudding-cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for an- hour-and-a-half. Prepare a nice white sauce. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (4) Peel and boil fib. of Potatoes, and when soft mash them as smoothly as possible; mix with this 1 teacupful each of scraped carrots and moist sugar, fib. each of finely-chopped beef-suet and flour; add Jib. of well-washed currants, loz. of thinly-shred candied lemon-peel, six blanched and shred bitter almonds, and a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a floured pudding-cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for six or seven hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) Peel and slice some nice mealy Potatoes. Prepare a light suet paste, and line a buttered pudding-basin with it; put in a layer of the Potatoes, and on them put a few little bits of butter, a small quantity of chopped ham or bacon, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; cover with another layer of Potatoes, and proceed in this way until the basin is full. Moisten with a small quantity of water, and cover with a fiat of paste, pinching the edges well together. Tie a floured cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an-hour-and- a.-half. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve at once with a sauceboatful of rich nicely-flavoured gravy. (C) Mash three cooked floury Potatoes very smoothly with a little milk. Boil Iqt. of milk with a piece each of lemon-peel and cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it. Strain this when it has boiled, and mix it with the mashed Potatoes. Stir till it cools a little, and then add Jib. of marmalade, four well-beaten eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of whisky or brandy. Put the pudding into a dish, and bake it. Serve hot. (7) Clean, boil, and mash 12oz. of Potatoes; mix them up with loz. each of finely-grated cheese and well-shred suet, and work the mixture into a thick paste by adding 1 teacupful or so of milk. Put the paste into a baking- dish, set it in a quick oven, and bake until it is quite done. Take it out, and serve very hot. (8) Put lib. each of butter and caster sugar into a basin, warm and beat them to a cream, add lib. of Potatoes, boiled, mashed, and passed through a sieve, 1 teaspoonful of ground spice, 1 wineglassful each of wine and brandy, half that quantity of rose-water, and lastly eight well- beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a pie-disli, and set it in a hot oven ; when done, take it out, and serve. (9) Mash plenty of boiled Potatoes with a lump of butter and six eggs, and season with salt and a small quan- tity of cayenne. Finely mince any kind of cold cooked meat, season to taste, and moisten it with a small quantity of good gravy. Butter a pudding-basin, line it with the Potato paste, put the minced meat in the centre, cover it with a layer of Potatoes, and tie a pudding-cloth over the top. Put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve. Potato Puffs.—(1) Large.—Peel, wash, and boil sufficient Potatoes to make 1 pint of pulp when mashed; mix in a little butter, a seasoning of finely-chopped parsley, celery-salt, salt and pepper, and add sufficient milk or cream to make the paste quite soft. Let it cool, then stir in the yolks and whites of two eggs, beaten separately. Turn the mixture into a shallow baking-dish, piling it up in the form of a rock, put the dish in a quick oven, and bake for ten minutes, when the mixture should be puffed and well browned. A little finely-chopped cooked meat may be added to the Potato paste if desired. " (2) Small.—Procure plenty of cold boiled Potatoes, and mash them smoothly, seasoning with salt, and working