308 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.. referred to. see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. cover it with a lid, pack ice on the top and all round it, and let it remain until the cream is set firm. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Raspberry jam may be substituted for the Raspberries. (6) Imitation.—Put 4oz. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar into a basin with an equal quantity of Raspberry jam or jelly and the whites of four eggs, and beat the whole for about an hour, when it will have the appear- ance of cream. Take it up in lumps about the size of an egg, and drop it into the dish in which it is to be served. Raspberry Cream-Ice.—(1) Put lib. of Raspberries and 41b. of red currants into a saucepan, bruise them, and add |lb. of crushed loaf sugar. Place the saucepan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture boils; pass it through a fine sieve into a basin and let it cool. Pour over 1 pint of cream, turn the whole into the freezer, and when it is stiff and well frozen it is ready for use. (2) Put 41b. each of picked Raspberries and Raspberry jam into a basin, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, the juice of one or more lemons, a little milk, and a slight colouring of carmine; mix well, turn the cream into a freezer, and when firm it may be used. Raspberry Cream-Ice en Surprise. -Put 3 pints of picked Raspberries into a dish and sprinkle over 1 breakfast- cupful of crushed loaf sugar. Put 3 pints of cream into a freezer, together with 3 teacupfuls of sugar and 2 table- spoonfuls of wine. When this mixture is frozen, take out the beater from the freezer and work the cream to the sides with a spatula, leaving a hollow in the centre. Fill this with the Raspberries and sugar, cover them, with the cream, put the cover over the freezer, and let it stand for an hour or two. When ready, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Raspberry-and-Cream Pie.—Make some rich puff paste, line a pie-dish with it, and fill the dish with Raspberries, picked free from hulls, &c. ; add sugar to taste, and cover with puff paste, but do not press down the edges. Lay it on as lightly as possible, and rub down the edge of the lower crust with a little flour to prevent the top one from sticking to it. Bake in a quick oven. Blend 1 table- spoonful of cornflour smooth with a little milk. Put 4 pint of milk over the fire to get warm, add to it a very small quantity of bicarbonate of soda, not more than will lie on a threepenny bit; when the milk is warm stir into it the blended cornflour, mix in 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, stir till it boils, and pour it into a basin. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the thickened milk in the basin, whip it to a cream, and let it stand till cold. When the pie is baked, lift up the top crust and pour in the whipped cream. Put the crust on again, and put the pie away to get cold. Serve cold with a little white sifted sugar sprinkled over it. Raspberry Crusts.—Cut two or three stale penny French rolls across into slices about Jin. thick, and lay them side by side on a dish, strew some caster sugar over them with some grated lemon-peel and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Pour over them two well-beaten eggs and 1 pint of milk, and leave them to soak for an hour or two. Put lib. of Raspberry jam in a stewpan with 4 pint of claret and 1 teacupful of water; stir it on the fire until mixed. Mix 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot smoothly with a little of the sauce, then mix it with the remainder, and stir until boiling and thickened. Sweeten the sauce to taste with caster sugar, stir it for a short time off the Raspberries—continued. fire, and leave until cold. When the slices are sufficiently soaked, put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put them in and fry till nicely browned. Drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour the mixture over the toast, dredge caster sugar over them, and serve with the cold sauce in a sauceboat (see Fig. 302). Raspberry-and-Currant Jam.—Carefully look over the Raspberries to see that there are no insects or stems left among them; then weigh, and to every pound of Rasp- berries allow lib. of sugar. To each 21b. of Rasp- berries and sugar allow 1 breakfast-cupful of the juice of red currants, obtained by bruising the currants in a cloth and squeezing the juice out through it. Put the currant-juice and the Raspberries into a preserving-pan, place it on the stove, break the Raspberries with a wooden spoon, and keep stirring; let them boil quickly till the juice is reduced to about one-third, then add the sugar, but do not stop stirring. When the sugar is all melted let the jam boil slowly for five or six minutes longer, stirring it occasionally to prevent it burning. When cool put the preserve into jars, and when quite cold cover and pub away for future use. Raspberry-and-Currant Jelly.—(1) Soak loz. of gelatine in 4 pint of cold water. Put 21b. of red currants and 21b. of red Raspberries into a stone jar and mash them thoroughly with a wooden masher and strain out all the juice. Add to the soaked gelatine 1 lb. of white sugar and 4 pint of boiling water, stir it in a saucepan over the fire till gelatine and sugar are completely melted, then strain into it the juice of the fruit. Stir all together and strain again through a flannel-bag without shaking or squeezing it. Wet the inside of a mould that has a cylinder in it, and pour in the jelly. Let it stand in ice till quite firm, turn it out on a glass dish, and fill the centre with well- sweetened whipped cream. (2) Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of red currant-juice into a preserving-pan over lqt. of Raspberries, set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until the Raspberries will easily mash; turn the whole on to a sieve over another preserving-pan, and strain through all the juice. Measure it, and to each breakfast-cupful allow 6oz. of sugar. Boil slowly for about half-an-hour, skimming as often as required. Pour it into pots, cover them when cold, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Raspberry-and-Currant Pie.—Make a rich paste and line a deep pie-dish witli it. Remove the stems from 1 pint each of Raspberries and currants, and put them into the pie-dish ; sprinkle over 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and cover it over with paste, melting the edges of the crusts to make them adhere. Cut two or three slits in the upper crust, brush it with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, dust with sugar, and serve liot or cold. Raspberry-and-Currant Pudding. Pick the stalks off lib. each of red currants and Raspberries, put them in a preserving-pan with AID- of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, place it over a very slow fire, and stew gently for half- an-hour. At the end of that time remove the fruit from the fire and leave it until cold. Whisk 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, cut eight or ten thin slices of bread, cover the bottom of a glass dish with a few of the slices, and mask them with a layer of the cold fruit; over that put another layer of the slices of bread, next the fruit, and so on, until all are used. Pour the whipped cream over the fruit and bread, and leave it for a few minutes so ' that the bread may absorb some of the fruit juice, then serve it. Raspberry-and-Currant Shrub.—Hull 31b. of red or white Raspberries, put them into a straining-cloth, together with 41b. of red or white currants, bruise well, and strain all the juice from them. Put the juice in a preserving- pan over the fire, and boil up quickly and hard for ten minutes. Then put in 21b. of loaf sugar, broken small, and when it melts let it boil up once. Skim it, take it from the fire, and let it get quite cold ; then if there is any more scum, skim it again. Add 1 pint of the best