391 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. and the juice of a lemon, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Mix 1 tahle-spoonful of flour with a little water, then mix with it gradually 4 pint of stock, and stir it into the saucepan with the other ingredients; season it to taste, and continue stirring the Sauce over the fire for twenty minutes. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and thicken the Sauce with the beaten yolks of four eggs. When thick, the Sauce is ready for serving. Maitre-d’Hotel Sauce (a la Maitre d’Hotel).—(1) Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan with 4 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little finely-minced thyme and onion, and pepper and salt to taste. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, and whisk the contents with an egg-whisk till on the point of simmering; then remove the saucepan from the fire, and serve the Sauce. (2) Mix with 1 teacupful of dried flour 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and make it a smooth paste with a little cold water; then turn it into a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling water, and stir it over the fire till thick. When the Sauce is cooked, take it off the fire, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve it. (3) From 1 pint of stock take out about 2 table-spoon- fuls, and with them mix 1 table-spoonful of cornflour to a smooth paste; put the remainder of the stock on to boil. Stir the cornflour into the boiling stock, and boil it gently for five minutes, stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 4 table-spoonfuls of maitre-d’hotel butter, then stir them gradually into the boiling mixture. Stand the saucepan containing the Sauce into another saucepan with boiling water, place them over the fire, and stir constantly for three or four minutes. Turn the Sauce out, and serve it. (4) Add to £ pint of warm Dutch Sauce, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 4oz. of butter, 1 scant teaspoonful of pepper, and 4 teaspoonful of nutmeg; then serve. Mandram Sauce.—Peel and finely chop a cucumber, put it into a basin, cover it with water, and let it steep for five minutes. Drain the cucumber well, mix with it one sliced onion, a little cayenne, a small piece of a capsicum, 1 table-spoonful of white wine, and a small quantity of vinegar. When well mixed, the Sauce is ready for serving. (2) Slice a cucumber, and chop a green chilli and a shallot; mix them up with 2 table-spoonfuls each of Madeira and vinegar, and the Sauce is ready for use. It is frequently ■ served with roast beef or mutton. It is most essential that green chillies he used, not dried ones, otherwise the flavour will not be so good. Marshal's Sauce (a la Marecliale).—Put 1 teacupful of green tarragon into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of white vinegar, a lump of sugar, and \ saltspoonful of salt, and boil quickly till the vinegar has reduced to half its original quantity; then pour in 1 teacupful of Sauce tournee that has been stiffly reduced, and boil it up once; then stir in the yolks of three eggs that have been beaten with a little milk or cream. Continue stirring the Sauce by the side of the fire till thick, but do not let it boil. Strain the Sauce through a broth-napkin, return it to the sauce- pan. mix with it Jib. of butter, and work it by the side of the fire till dissolved. Serve the Sauce while quite hot. Matelote Sauce (a la Matelote).—(1) Put some slices of onion into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them till In-owned; then take them out, leaving the butter in the stewpan. Pour in with the butter 14 pints of wine and stock, mixed in equal quantities (either white or red wine can be used), and season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil the Sauce till reduced one-third, then put in some cooked mushrooms and the onions, and serve it. (2) Put into a saucepan 4 pint each of broth and white wine, some chervil, tarragon, and two bay-leaves ; season with pepper and salt to taste, and boil the Sauce gently till reduced to half the original quantity. The Sauce is then ready for use. (3) Cut three onions into slices, and put them into a saucepan with four shallots, a small bunch of thyme, one bay-leaf, and 14 breakfast-cupfuls of Burgundy. Stew the onions gently till tender; then strain the liquor into Sauces—continued. another saucepan, mix with it lqt. of Spanish Sauce, and boil quickly till reduced to the consistency of cream. Strain it through a broth-napkin, and it is then ready for serving. (4) Put 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar into a saucepan, and stir it over a sharp fire till brown; then put in about 14 table-spoonfuls of butter and seventeen or eighteen peeled button-onions, and fry them till brown; then pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, and when boiling add 1 pint of brown Sauce and 24 teacupfuls of broth. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire for the contents to simmer till the onions are tender; then skim the Sauce, and put in eighteen small quenelles, eight heads of mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful each of ketchup ami essence of anchovies, and a little cayenne pepper. The Sauce is then ready for serving as required. Matrimony Sauce.—Make 4 pint of butter Sauce, using plenty of butter, season with 1 pinch of salt, and add sufficient vinegar and crystallised sugar to give it piquancy. This Sauce gives a nice relish to vegetables. Mayonnaise Sauce.—(1) Beat the yolks of four eggs that have been freed of all whites in a basin with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, and stir in drop by drop 1 teacupful of salad-oil, adding also a few drops of vinegar; if too thick, a little water may be used. When ready to serve, mix in with the Sauce a few chopped chervil leaves. (2) Mix 6 table-spoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly with 3 table- spoonfuls of German Sauce and 2 table-spoonfuls of salad- oil. Stand the basin on ice and beat the contents, adding at the same time a small quantity of pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. When it begins to freeze, the Sauce is ready. (3) Beat well the yolks of three eggs, strain them into a basin, and set it on ice or in a very cool place. Add to the beaten yolks 3 saltspoonfuls of salt, mix it well in, and then pour in, a few drops at a time, 3 dessert-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil, stirring the mixture well; when this is thoroughly incorporated with the eggs, stir in also by degrees l \ teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Continue adding and mixing in oil and tarragon vinegar till the Sauce is of the consistency of very thick cream, then add white pepper to taste, and if necessary more salt. (4) Separate the yolk from the white of an egg, and remove the germ. Put the yolk into a basin that has been rubbed over with garlic, and add 1 teaspoonfu 1 of made mustard, and 1 saltspoonful of salt and pepper. Beat the egg well with a fork, then mix in slowly some olive oil. When the quantity of Sauce is as much as is required, stir in a little malt vinegar. (5) Put the cold hard-boiled yolk of an egg in a basin and mash it with a wooden spoon till smooth, moistening it with a few drops of salad-oil. Fiee the yolk of a raw egg from every particle of white, put it into the basin with the other, season with pepper, salt, made mustard, and cayenne, then add the remains of 1 teacupful of salad oil, stirring well and always in one direction, to prevent the Sauce from curdling. When the mixture is smooth and creamy add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and serve it. Milan Sauce (a la Milanaise).—(1) Put into a saucepan two chopped mushrooms, one or two washed and boned anchovies, ami 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and stir over the fire till browned; then sift in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir that also for a few minutes till nicely coloured; pour in 4 pint of stock and 4 wineglassful each of caper vinegar and marsala, and continue stirring them till boiling, then add a small quantity of mixed mustard, a small pinch of cayenne, and a little salt. Let the Sauce simmer for twenty minutes, then strain it, and put it back into the saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of capers. After five minutes boiling the Sauce will be ready to serve. (2) Cut fib. of boiled macaroni into pieces fin. in length and put them into a saucepan with an equal quantity of small pieces of cooked ham and white cooked mushrooms, also cut into pieces; pour in with them 3 teacupfuls of white Sauce and 1 teacupful of white broth, seasoning to taste