TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 218 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continued. well cooked. Turn tlie curry out on to a dish, and serve either with or without a border of boiled rice. Pillet of Pork a la Chasseur.—Cut off the meat from a leg of Pork weighing about 51b., stuff the cavity (where the bone was taken out) with seasoned Pork stuffing, score the skin, and lard the upper or thick surface with thick lardoons of Pork. Put a few slices of bacon-fat, carrots, onions, and a hunch of sweet herbs into a braising-pan, place the meat on top, brown the latter slightly, add a little brown stock and vinegar to moisten, and cook until the meat is thoroughly done. Take out the meat and put it on a hot dish to keep warm, drain the liquor, thicken with a little dissolved gelatine, and add colouring as required; reduce the liquor by boiling, pour it over the meat, and serve hot. Fillets of Pork Sautes.—Cut off a dozen under-fillets of Pork, flatten them with a cutlet-hat and trim off all the fat and gristle, cut them into an elongated pear-shape, lard them with strips of fat bacon, and put them into a saute-pan. Pour over sufficient mirepoix to nearly cover them, set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until they are quite done. Take out the fillets, glaze them, and they are ready for serving. They may be sent to table in various ways, such as arranged in a circle on a dish with a puree of endive in the centre; or with a little cooked celery, or tomato, cardoon, or mushroom puree in the centre, and a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Fried Pork Cutlets.—(1) Cut off all the skin and nearly all the fat from a loin of Pork, chop it up into cutlets, put them into a frying-pan with a, little butter, and fry until they are cooked and of a good brown colour. In the meantime put the bones, skin, and any trimmings of bacon or ham into a saucepan with a couple of onions cut up into slices, and when they are well browned pour over sufficient water to barely cover the whole of the bones, &c.; boil for two hours, then strain it and skim off all the fat. Pour it into another saucepan with a little isinglass to thicken it, and mix in a small quantity of browning to colour. Brush the cutlets over with this glaze, place them on a dish, pour a little tomato sauce round them, and serve quickly. (2) Cut off half-a-dozen or so cutlets from a loin of Pork, trim oil' nearly all the fat, and scrape clean the top part or projecting ends of the bones. Brush them well over or dip them into well-beaten egg, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs slightly seasoned with finely-chopped sage, and dust them over with salt and pepper to taste; smear a little warmed butter over them and plunge them into a frying pan of boiling lard or drippings from roasted beef. Set the pan on the fire, fry them to a light chest- nut colour, take them out, drain them on a cloth, put them on a dish, leaning against a pyramid of mashed potatoes, and serve very hot. A little gravy should be served in a sauceboat. Hashed Pork.—Cut some cold boiled or roast Pork in slices, and sprinkle them with salt and a very small quan- tity of cayenne. Put into a saucepan over the fire I Joz. of butter, 1 small teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 dessert- spoonful of walnut liquor, and 1 dessert spoonful of soy or mushroom ketchup. Make this sauce very hot, put into it the slices of Pork, and let them get hot through, taking care that the sauce does not boil. Lay the Pork on a hot dish, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice into the sauce, pour it very hot over the Pork, and serve. Melton Mowbray Pies.—The receipt for these is supposed to be a secret known only to the makers. Their chief merit lies in the quality of the Pork used, and the delicacy of the flavouring. See Pork Pie. Minced Pork.—Chop very finely 21b. of lean fresh Pork; break ilb. of stale bread and soak it till soft in f pint of milk. Mix together the minced Pork, soaked bread, two well beaten eggs, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and powdered sage; put the mixture into a buttered earthen- ware baking-dish, place it in a moderate oven, bake for two hours, and serve hot. Fried apples make a good accompaniment for this dish. Pork—continued. Neck of Pork d la Remoulade.—Wrap a neck of Pork in a sheet of buttered paper and roast it, keeping it well basted; put 11 teacupfuls of white sauce in a stewpan with l teacupful of veal broth and boil it, then mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of tartar sauce, and h teacupful of chopped Indian pickle; keep the sauce hot at the side of the lire, but do not let it boil again. When the meat is nearly cooked, remove the paper and brown it. Pour the sauce on to a hot dish, place the meat upon it, and serve. Neck of Pork a la Venetienne.—Peel and chop a moderate- sized onion, put it in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and toss it about over a brisk fire until lightly browned. Dredge a small quantity of flour over the onions, stir in gradually 1 \ breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce, and boil until somewhat thickly reduced, stirring it well at the same time. Season the sauce with one or two chopped mushrooms, a small quantity of chopped parsley, 1 scant teaspoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste; turn it out to get cool. Make an opening between the flesh and skin of a neck of Pork, sufficiently large to hold the above mixture, and stuff it in. Fasten the opening up securely, wrap a sheet of oiled paper round the Pork, and roast, keeping it continually basted. Put 2 table spoonfuls of chopped shallots in a stewpan with a small quantity of salad-oil, and fry them for two or three minutes ; then add 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut; toss them about over the fire for another five minutes, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of brown sauce and chicken broth, and ^ breakfast- cupful of tomato sauce. Stir the sauce and boil it for fifteen minutes. When the Pork is just upon cooked, remove the paper, and let it brown. Pour the sauce on to a hot dish, place the Pork on it, and serve while very hot. Pork-and-Apple Pie.—Cut off nearly all the fat from some Pork chops; chop each of them into three or four pieces, leaving the bone attached to the meat, roll them well in flour, and sprinkle them over with ground allspice, salt, and pepper to taste. Pare, core, and cut into quarters a few apples, taking in bulk about half that of the meat. Fill a teacup with cider, invert the cup in a pie-dish, then put a layer of Pork at the bottom of the dish, then apples, and so on, until they are all used up and the dish is full, but the last layer must he of apples. Pour over 1 teacupful more of the cider or the same quantity of stock, put a cover over the dish of good solid crust, without too much butter or fat, push the dish into a moderate oven, and bake until the pie is quite done. Take it out, add a little more boiling gravy to it if required, and serve. Fork Cheese.—(1) Stew in a small quantity of water until quite tender any bits of Pork such as head, feet, &c.; when cooked, strain the liquor (which should jelly when cold) into a basin, mince the meat as finely as possible, mixing with it some chopped mushrooms, and seasoning highly with pounded mace, cloves, allspice, and salt and pepper, then moisten it with its cooking liquor. Press the mixture tightly into a rather shallow plain round mould with slant- ing sides, and set it away in a cool place for several hours. When ready to serve, turn the cheese out on to a plate, then turn it over on to a round dish. This makes a nice breakfast or supper dish, and is a good way of utilising small odd bits or trimmings of Pork. (2) Chop the Pork, and season with finely-minced onion and chives, grated lemon-peel, and salt and pepper; stir an egg into the mixture ancT dredge in sufficient flour to form a thick paste. Shape it like a round cake. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the Pork cake and place it over the fire, turning it until nicely browned on both sides. When cooked take the cake out, put a sliced onion in the stewpan with a piece more butter, and fry them until nicely browned, dredging in flour occasionally. Stir in with the onions sufficient clear broth to make the required quantity of sauce, season to taste, boil it up, then put in the cake, and make it hot again. Put the cake on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. (3) Procure a head and twelve hogs ears; put the head in cold water and leave it for three or four days, changing