TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 241 Potatoes—continued. Potato Waffles.—Mix to a smooth hatter l breakfast-cupful of sweet Potatoes boiled and mashed, 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful each of butter and sugar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and 1 pint of milk. Bake the batter at once in a hot waffle-iron; or, if no iron is available, the batter may be baked on a griddle, in the form of cakes. Potato Yeast.—(1) Have ready in a kettle on the fire 3qts. of boiling water. Peel and wash three large Potatoes, and put them into a basin to soak. Put J teacupful of flour into a bowl, with an equal quantity of sugar and 1 table- spoonful of salt, over these grate the Potatoes quickly, without waiting to scrape eveiy particle or remove that which adheres to the grater, and stir the whole well with a wooden spoon, so as not to have it of a dark colour, which would be the case if it were not done quickly. Pour 1 pint of the boiling water over the grater into the bowl to wash off the Potato from it, stir it into the mixture, and add more of the boiling water, to make the mixture of the consistency of thin starch. The amount of water cannot be determined, as it depends very much upon the quality of the flour and Potatoes. Should the mixture refuse to thicken, pour it into a double boiler over the fire, and stir continually till it does so. Pour it through a tine sieve into another bowl, and let it cool. When it is luke- warm right through (that is, not merely at the top but at the bottom and in tbe centre as well), stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of yeast. Put a light covering over the bowl, and set it in a warm but not hot place, and let it remain until it is light and covered with a white foam. When it begins to rise, beat it well, as this makes it stronger; when it has well risen, pour off into wide- mouthed earthenware jars. Let it remain for a night, or about twelve hours, then cover the jars tightly over, and let it remain in a cool place Half a pint or so of the yeast should be put into a small glass jar, for use in making tbe next lot of Potato yeast. The jars should always be well shaken before tbe yeast is used, and they should be kept in a cool place, and used from there to iill the basin as required, not brought into a warm kitchen. Yeast made in this way will keep for a fortnight, and it is whiter and of a better appearance than that made from hops, while it has not the bitter flavour. Tbe flour may be omitted, and more Potato or less water used; or boiling hop-water—made by steeping h teacupful of hops in 3 pints of water for five minutes, and strained before being poured into the flour and Potato—may be sub- stituted for the plain water if the bitter flavour is desired, ora little less than 1 teaspoonful of finely powdered ginger may be added to the Potato, Hour, &c. ; but if these two last (that is, hops and ginger) are used, the yeast will be dark, which will not be perceptible in bread. (2) Peel, boil, and mash smoothly six floury Potatoes, and stir into them Jib. of sugar and 1 pint of boiling water. Let this mixture get quite cold, then mix with it 1 pint of cold water and rather less than J pint of yeast, and let it stand in a warm place for twelve hours. It is then ready for use. Shake it well before using. (3) Peel three large old Potatoes, soak them in water, and boil them until they drop to pieces; then drain off all the water, and mash them. Put 1 teacupful of loose hops into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them, having ready another quart of water boiling. Pour the 2qts. of water through a fine sieve to prevent the hops getting in, stir them well up with the Potato mash, and turn them all into a sieve over a saucepan, rubbing as much of the Potato through as possible. Set the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils put in 3oz. of flour made into a smooth paste with a little cold water and 6oz. of sugar. Let the mixture boil for five minutes, stirring it well, pour it into a bowl, let it cool, and add £ breakfast-cupful of yeast; then set it to rise, and when it has well risen, add J teacupful of salt. Turn the yeast into a jar, cover it over, and put it in a cool place. Bread made with this yeast will not turn sour, even in very hot weather. Rolled Potatoes with Sweet Sauce.—Peel and wash 21b. of Potatoes, boil them until they are quite soft, put them in a mortar, and pound them to a pulp, adding gradually Potatoes—continued. a little grated nutmeg and well-beaten mace, and J wine- glassful of white wine. When these are incorporated, add the yolks of one or two eggs and a little warmed butter. Turn the mixture out on to a board or table sprinkled with breadcrumbs, form it into a roll, coating it with the breadcrumbs, put it into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Put it on a dish (see Fig. 302), and pour over a sauce made as follows-^ Put 1 gill of white wine into a basin, and stir Fig. 302. Rolled Potatoes with Sweet Sauce. into it gradually loz. of caster sugar, one well-beaten yolk of egg, and a seasoning of grated nutmeg. Put the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the sauce is thick and ready for use. Scalloped Potatoes.—(1) Boil 21b. of Potatoes till soft and mealy, put them in a basin with 1 teacupful of cream, a piece of flutter the size of a walnut, and a little salt, and beat them with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Put the mixture into scallop or table-shells, score the surfaces with a knife, place thin slices of butter on tbe tops, and brown them in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire. Finely chop the white of a hard-boiled egg, and grate tbe yolk; sprinkle half of the scallops with each, arrange them on a dish, garnish with parsley and slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Mash 21b. of cold boiled Potatoes with 1 breakfast- cupful of milk, 3oz. of warmed butter, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Have ready some fluttered patty pans or table-shells, fill them with the mixture, smooth over the tops, mark with the prongs of a fork, and put them in tbe oven to brown. Then take them out, and whilst they are still hot glaze them over with butter, and grate another ounce of the cheese over that; put them into the oven again to finish, and then serve them on a dish. (3) Peel and boil some Potatoes; when cooked, drain and mash them smoothly, mix with them the third of their quantity of finely-minced ham, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of sweet herbs. Butter some scallop-shells, fill them with the mix- ture, marking it over the top with a fork, put a small lump of butter on the top of each, and put them in a brisk oven. When nicely browned on the top, put the scallops on a hot dish with a circle of poached eggs round them, and serve. Steamed Potatoes. -Pare lib. or 21b. of Potatoes, taking off the peel as finely as possible, wash them, plunge them into a bowl of cold water, and let them remain for five or six minutes; then put them in a steamer over a pan of boiling water, and let them cook until they are done and can lie easily pierced with a fine skewer. Turn them into a vegetable-dish, and serve immediately, or they will soon get discoloured. Stewed Potatoes.—(1) Put in a saucepan over the fire Jib. of raw Potatoes cut in small pieces, 2oz. of butter, a medium-sized onion peeled and chopped, 1 teaspoonful of common salt anil celery-salt mixed, 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, and 3 table-spoonfuls of water. Let all these simmer together till tbe Potatoes are soft, then add :} pint of milk and 1 table-spoonful of flour blended smooth with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar; stir well till it boils, then boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, sec under their special heads. VOL. II.