267 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. with rock-salt at the bottom; fill the pail with more ice and salt, and freeze for fully two hours. Two minutes before serving, bathe the mould in warm water to remove the ice and salt that adhere, turn the Pudding out, and send to the table immediately, with a sauceboatful of the following sauce: Add to A pint of whipped vanilla cream 1 gill of strawberry juice and \ gill or 2oz. of yellow char- treuse ; beat well together with the whisk for two minutes, and pour it into the sauce-bowl. Pudding a la Liscard Hall.—Well beat four eggs and mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 saltspoon- ful of salt, J pint of cream, and a few drops of essence of kernels. Butter a Pudding-mould, pour the mixture into it, stand it in a saucepan with boiling vrater to three- parts its height, place the lid on, and set by the side of the fire. Break two eggs in a stewpan, mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, J salt-spoonful of salt, and a few drops of essence of almonds. Beat well with a wire whisk into a stiff froth, and continue whisking them at the edge of the fire until lukewarm, but they must not get too hot. When set, turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve immediately. Pudding a la Theodore.—Cut into small pieces six lady’s- finger cakes, and put them into a basin with 3oz. of candied cherries cut in halves, 3oz. of preserved quinces cut into very fine pieces, 2oz. of dried currants, 3oz. of powdered sugar, and 2oz. of finely-chopped candied apricots ; break in three eggs, pour over A pint of cold milk, and with the spatula mix well together for two minutes. Peel, core, and chop up three medium-sized apples, add them to the other ingredients, and mix lightly for one minute. Well butter and sugar round the inside of a 3-pint Pud- ding-mould, pour in the preparation, lay it in a tin pan with warm water to half the height of the mould, put in a moderate oven, and steam for an hour; then remove, and with a towel turn it out on to a hot dish, serving with a sauce made as follows: Put 5oz. of peach marmalade into a saucepan with loz. of quince jelly and loz. of butter; place the pan on the stove, and stir with the spatula, letting it boil for one minute. Take it off the fire and add immediately 1 pint of champagne; then return to the stove and stir well, heating it thoroughly, but not allowing it to boil. Remove, strain through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and send to table very hot. Pudding without Milk or Eggs.—Well butter a baking- or pie-dish, put a layer of sifted breadcrumbs at the bottom, on the top of that put a layer of apples, pared, cored, and finely chopped, and sprinkle over brown sugar, pounded allspice, and a very few small lumps of butter. Continue with these layers until the dish is full, finishing with the breadcrumbs. Pour over 1 breakfast-cupful each of wine and water mixed, set the dish in a quick oven, and bake for an hour. Pudding with Molasses Sauce.—Slightly warm 6oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, then mix with it 6oz. of caster sugar, two well-beaten eggs, and 1 pint of hot milk. Put 6oz. of flour in a basin, and stir the above mixture into it, mixing smoothly. Thickly butter the interior of a Pudding basin, pour the mixture into it, put into a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. While the Pudding is baking, prepare the following sauce : Put 2 table- spoonfuls of flour into a small lined saucepan, and mix in with it 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses and 1 breakfast- cupful of sugar; stir this mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, then move it a little to the side, and stir for five minutes longer. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Quaking Pudding.—Put the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three into a basin and beat them up with 1 pint of cream, grate in a nutmeg and the crust of a small well-baked loaf of bread, and add a slight flavour- ing of rose-water. Put the mixture into a cloth that has been spread over with butter and floured, tie it up, allowing a little room for swelling, plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for half-an-hour. Turn it out when done, and serve. If preferred, 1 or 2 table- I Puddings—continued. spoonfuls of flour or rice-flour can be mixed with a little of the cream and used as a substitute for the grated bread-crust. Queen Pudding.—Finely mince Jib. of mutton-suet, mix it well into 1 breakfast-cupful of whole meal, then mix in six or eight bananas cut into slices about Jin. in thickness, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk sweetened with 2oz. of sugar. Put a plate over the basin containing the mixture, and let it stand for about an hour; then stir three eggs into the mixture, adding one at a time, and well beating after each addition, so as to make the Pudding light and thoroughly mixed; put it into a greased mould, and steam or boil. In mixing, should the preparation be too thick, a little more milk must be added. When done, turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour over 2 wineglassfuls of red-currant wine, and serve with wine sauce poured round. Queen Mab’s Pudding.—Put 1 pint of milk into a lined saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, half a pod of vanilla, and about 1 teaspoonful of blanched and bruised bitter almonds. Place the saucepan at the side of the fire, and allow the contents to heat very slowly; when on the point of boiling, mix in loz. of isinglass and A saltspoonful of salt. When the isinglass has dis- solved, strain the whole through muslin into a clean saucepan, add to it 4oz. of loaf sugar and 1 breakfast- cupful of rich cream, and place it over the fire until it boils; then remove it to the side, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of six eggs. Continue stirring the Pudding at the edge of the fire until thickened, but do not let it boil again or the eggs will curdle; then turn the Pudding into a basin and stir until half cold, when mix in 2oz. of dried cherries and loz. of thinly shredded candied citron-peel. Pour the mixture into a mould, and set it in a cold place. When ready to serve, turn the Pudding on to a dish. Slices of preserved ginger may be substituted for the cherries if liked, in which case pour the syrup from the ginger round the Pudding. Raglan Pudding.—Decorate the bottom of a buttered plain mould with pieces of candied citron, orange, and lemon peel cut into various shapes, and cover the sides with figs cut flatwise in halves, having the skin side towards the centre of the mould. Put the yolks of seven eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk into a saucepan with any kind of flavouring, such as vanilla, &c., and sufficient sugar to sweeten ; set the pan on the fire, and stir well until the custard is quite thick. Pour it into the mould, taking care not to disturb the peel or figs, cover over the top of the mould with greased paper, set it on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam until done and quite firm. Take it out, let it get quite cold, turn out on to a dish, and serve with 2 table-spoonfuls of apricot or any other jam or marmalade mixed with 2 wineglass- fuls of sherry, and poured over. Revere Pudding.—To Iqt. of boiled milk allow 1 table- spoonful of flour, six pounded crackers, Jib. of sugar, half-a-dozen eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, as much chopped suet as butter, one grated nutmeg, A teaspoonful of powdered cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon; mix all together, put into a pudding dish, and bake. For the sauce, beat Jib. of butter till it is white, then stir in by degrees Alb. of finely-powdered white sugar ; continue beating the butter and sugar till it is a cream, then put it in a glass dish, and grate a little nutmeg over it. Rich Pudding.—This Pudding is a great favourite in Madeira; it requires a long time to boil, and great care in turning out of the mould, which must have a bottom that will take out. Well butter the mould, and upon the bottom of it place a round of puff paste to fit, over this put a layer of preserved apricots, then another layer of paste, then one of any other preserve; continue in this way until the mould is full, finishing with paste. Cover the mould and boil for several hours. Serve with sweet or brandy sauce. St. John’s Pudding.—Prepare and roll out a paste composed of 6oz. of beef-suet, Jib. of flour, and sufficient water.