THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 368 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. (3) Remove the skin and hones from some cold boiled Salmon, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes, and pound them together; season the mixture with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne, add some pounded lobster spawn, an egg beaten in a little milk, and sufficient Hour to make a stiff paste. Shape the above into little cakes, put them in a frying-pan with a piece of butter, and fry till nicely and equally browned. When cooked, drain the cakes, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salmon Cassolettes.—Prepare some short or puff paste, roll it out thinly, and line some buttered oval-shaped tin dariole-moulds with it; put a sheet of white paper in each, fill them with raw rice, and bake. When cooked, turn the rice out and leave the paste cases till cold. Cut some kippered Salmon into as many thin slices as’ there are moulds. Mask each slice with some chutney and a small quantity of French and English mustard, roll them up, wrap them separately in sheets of buttered paper, and bake for ten minutes. When done, remove the paper and leave the fish till cold. Place a roll of the Salmon in each of the small patties, cover them with melted aspic jelly, and leave till set. Arrange the cassolettes on a fancy-edged dish-paper or folded napkin on a dish, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Salmon Cromeskies.—Boil some pieces of Salmon, such as the tail, &c., and when cooked, drain them, remove the skin and bone, and put them under a weight till cold. Cut the Salmon into small equal-sized pieces, and mix them with half their quantity of chopped cooked mush- rooms or truffles; thicken a little rich gravy with butter and yolk of egg, add the Salmon and truffles or mush- rooms, stir them over the fire for a few minutes, then let them cool. Shape the mixture into small equal quan- tities, dip them in batter, and fry in butter till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the cromeskies, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Salmon Croquettes.—(1) Finely chop lib. of Salmon; mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 1 table spoonful of butter together; boil J pint of cream, mix the butter, flour, and Salmon in with it, and stir over the fire for a minute. Work a well-beaten egg in with the above ingredients, remove them from the fire, and leave till cold. Shape the mixture into croquettes, dip them in beaten egg, breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat. When cooked, drain the croquettes, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Pick the flesh of some cold cooked Salmon perfectly free from skin and bone, and chop it slightly. Put ljoz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, together with about J table-spoonful of flour, and mix them well, then stir in sufficient hot milk to moisten the mixture without making it too liquid; stir over the fire until boiling, then put in the fish with a moderate quantity of minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When the fish is hot move the saucepan off the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Spread the mixture on a dish, leave it till cold, then mould it with a table-spoon into egg-shaped balls; roll them in breadcrumbs, then egg and breadcrumb them again. Leave the croquettes in a cool pantry for an hour or more; put a lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when it boils put in the croquettes a few at a time and fry them until nicely and equally browned. As each lot are cooked take them from the fat and drain them on a sheet of paper. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, build the croquettes to a pyramid shape on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Salmon Cutlets.—(1) Pick all the meat from apiece of cold Salmon and cut it into small pieces, pound some lobster coral in a mortar with Joz. of butter, then rub it through a hair sieve. Put over the fire in a small saucepan J pint of milk, and mix into it loz. of flour rubbed into loz. of Salmon—continued. butter; continue to stir it till it is so thick that it comes away from the sides of the saucepan. Add the coral butter, the Salmon, and a seasoning of cayenne, salt, and a little lemon-juice; take it from the fire and let it cool. When cold enough make it into small thick rolls, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of bread- crumbs, and fry in boiling lard or fat. The cutlets should be served hot and garnished with fried parsley. (2) Choose the tail-end of a Salmon and chop it into cutlets about Jin. in thickness. Warm a little butter, and dip each one into it; when it has set brush them over on each side with yolk of egg, sift over some breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry on both sides till brown. Arrange them on a dish with the following sauce poured round: Thicken 1 breakfast-cupful of rich gravy with a little flour and butter, put it into a saucepan, warm it up, and add a little chopped West Indian pickles. (3) Frankfort Fashion.—Wash and wipe four slices of Salmon and rub them over with salt; cut into thin shreds two onions and a piece of parsley and celery-root, blanch them, if not quite young, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry over a moderate fire. Add a bunch of parsley, a few peppercorns, and some white wine and water mixed in equal quantities; boil all together for a few minutes, then put in the pieces of Salmon, and let them simmer by the side of the fire. Thicken the liquor with 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and a little aspic jelly; simmer for a few minutes longer, then take out the slices of Salmon with a skim- mer, remove the skin, and put them in a deep dish. Boil the sauce for a few minutes longer till reduced to a nice consistency, take out the parsley, turn it into a basin, and let if cool on ice. Pour the cold sauce over the slices of Salmon, and serve. Salmon Cutlets a l’An glaise. Cut off some slices of a Salmon, and divide them into the shape of cutlets (see Fig. 439); sprinkle some pepper and salt over them, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and toss over a good fire. Take out the cutlets when cooked, drain off the butter, put them on a dish, and serve with ravigote sauce, or a sauce made as follows: Put 3 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce into a saucepan, reduce it, and add one egg, 4oz.- of butter, a little salt, cayenne, some finely- minced parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix it well, and it is ready for use. Salmon Cutlet en Papillote.—Cut a slice about lin. thick from the middle of a Salmon, wrap it round in oiled paper, and fry in boiling fat. When done, take it out, drain, and serve with the paper still on. Salmon Cutlets with Caper Sauce.—Put some slices of Salmon in oil with a little chopped parsley and chives, and let them steep for one or two hours. Dip some pieces of paper in the oil that the Salmon has marinaded in, and wrap a piece round each slice. Put them on a greased gridiron, and broil over a slow clear fire for about three quarters-of-an-hour, according to the thickness of the slices, turning them occasionally. Remove the paper from the cutlets, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of white caper sauce. Salmon Cutlets with Cucumber.—Procure some slices of Salmon about Jin. thick and free them from skin and bone; flatten them with a cutlet-bat, and cut each slice into as many nice-shaped cutlets as possible. Thickly Fig. 439. Salmon Cutlets a l’Anglaise.