302 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils% Sauces, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ragouts—continued. without boiling. Have ready a few poached quenelles, put them into a saucepan with some turned mushrooms, pour over a little Spanish sauce, and reduce it; drain the cocks’ combs, kidneys, and eggs, put them into the saucepan with the sauce, and stir gently, taking care not to break the quenelles. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and the Ragout is ready for use. (2) Pour lqt. of Spanish sauce into a stewpan, and mix with it ^ pint each of essence of chicken, essence of mush- rooms, and essence of truffles. Boil the sauce till thickly reduced, then strain and mix with it some slices of truffles ami equal quantities of collops of fat livers, mushrooms, chicken quenelles, cocks’ kernels, and cocks’ combs. (3) Put a slice of raw ham cut into small pieces into a saucepan with l wineglassful each of white wine and stock, one mushroom, a small bunch of herbs, and a sprinkling of pepper; reduce over the fire until the liquor is half its original quantity, then strain it through a fine sieve. Put a small lump of butter into another saucepan, warm it, and mix in a little Hour; stir well until it is quite smooth, pour in a little stock, and reduce this to half its original quantity also. Now pour in the strained liquor, and add some cooked cocks’ combs, fat livers, mushrooms, artichoke- bottoms, and truffles. Warm these thoroughly in the sauce without boiling, and it is ready for use, and may either be served as it is, or as a garnish to fowls, &c. Ragofit a la Godard.—This is prepared the same as for Ragout a la Financiere (No. 1), adding stewed pigeons and larded sweetbreads, and keeping the sauce thin with- out reducing it. Two wineglassfuls of Madeira and a little sugar boiled down to almost a glaze should be added to the sauce to give it the peculiar flavour necessary. Ragoftt of Sot-l'y laisse.—The translation of the term sot-l’y laisse is “ a fool leaves it,” and is the tender part of the flesh on both sides of the backs of birds directly under the flat bone connecting the back to the breast. Take off these pieces of meat from the backs of some cooked fowls, capons, turkeys, or other birds, pare them, put them into a saucepan with a few button-mushrooms split in halves, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce reduced with extract of mushrooms, place the saucepan in a bain-marie, and let it remain for ten minutes. Have ready a border of boiled rice on a dish, put the r ago (it of sot-l’y laisse in the centre, and serve. Ragoflt of Young Roots.—-Pare four carrots and four turnips and cut them into the shape of long tubes about lin. thick, and cut these into thin long slices; blanch the carrots in boiling water for five minutes and drain them. Put 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar into a saucepan on the fire, and when it begins to brown put in a lump of butter and the turnips, and toss them over the fire until they are covered with a coating of the glaze. Put in the carrots and 18 table-spoonfuls of half-glaze, and simmer gently at the side of the fire till the vegetables are cooked. Take out the vegetables with a skimmer, and put them on a sieve to drain; reduce the sauce, sprinkle in a little pepper, strain it through a fine sieve into another sauce- pan, put in the vegetables, heat them all up, and serve. Turkish Rago&t.—Cut lib. of beef or mutton into small pieces, put them into a deep frying-pan or stewpan with a small quantity of fat, and fry them, adding salt and pepper to taste and a small quantity of water; now add about lib. of French beans, carrots, or any such like vegetables, and simmer gently until cooked, adding more water if required. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. RAHAT LAKOUM.—This is a favourite sweetmeat in the Levant, where it is made to perfection by the ladies of Scio. It is better known in this country as “ Turkish Delight.” Put 31b. of crushed loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water, boil it to a syrup, and clarify with the strained juice of a lemon and the whites of three eggs. While it is boiling stir in 6oz. of wheat-starch dis solved in 3 teacupfuls of water and strained, and continue to boil until the liquor is reduced to two-thirds its Rahat Lakoum—continued. original quantity, when it should be quite thick. Add a little sweet essence of any kind, especially essence of roses, stir it well in, and let the preparation cool. Rub a little almond oil over a toffy-slab, turn the mixture on to it, spreading it to about lin. in thickness, let it get quite cold, then turn it over on to another slab or dish sprinkled with caster sugar. Cover the Rahat with blotting-paper to soak up the oil, cut it into squares, dust them all over with sugar, and put them away in a cool place until wanted. Sometimes this Rahat is made with cherry or rose-flavoured syrup, and a few shred blanched almonds mixed in before the syrup thickens. RAISINS (Fr. Raisins secs ; Ger. Rosinen).—These are commonly described as the prepared or dried fruit of the Vitis vinifera. In Spon’s “ Encyclopaedia of Manu- factures and Raw Materials ” the following interesting information is given concerning the growth of Raisins and their preparation for the market: “ They are not, as might be supposed, produced wherever the vine is cultivated, on the contrary their preparation is a speciality of certain districts. One of the most important of these is a strip of Spanish territory bordering the Mediterranean, about 100 miles long and five to six wide. Two kinds of Raisins are here produced: the mus- catel or dessert Raisin, chiefly in the neighbourhood of Malaga, and the common pudding Raisin, peculiar to Valencia. Unfortunately the phylloxera has made such ravages throughout the district that the industry is almost threatened with extinction. The region next in import- ance has its outlet at Smyrna. Here the small stoneless or sultana Raisin is grown, not only on the mainland, but also on the island of Chesme, which gives its name to a portion of the crop. There are large districts in Persia where Raisins are produced, but the expense and difficulty of transport cause them to be consumed locally. Greece furnishes small supplies of sultanas. California is becom- ing a large producer of muscatels, for consumption both in the Eastern States and in China. The decay of the Cape wine trade has driven the growers to convert much of their grapes into Raisins. Finally, South Australia is rapidly developing a Raisin trade. “ The vines begin to bear in the second year, but are not in full bearing till the fifth; they continue productive for fifty to seventy-five years. The sultana vines are planted in rows, six to seven feet apart; they are productive in the third year, and are in perfection at the fourth to sixth year. The matured fruits do not fall off, but remain attached to the plant, where, with sufficient heat, they wither and dry. The drying is an operation requiring the greatest care. It is usually hastened by one of the follow- ing methods : In Spain the ripe bunches are clipped off one by one, and placed on sloping floors, covered with small pebbles, to cure in the sun. Perhaps the finest kinds are obtained by partially severing the stalks and leaving the bunches hanging on the vines, the leaves being at the same time removed so as to admit the sun. In Asia Minor the plucked fruit is slightly sprinkled with oil during the curing, to prevent too rapid evaporation, and to favour the preservation of the fruit in transit. Occasionally the bunches are dipped into warm water, or a lye of wood ashes and lime, especially in Valencia. Of course it is essential that damp shall be rigidly excluded during the drying period. When dry the fruit is carefully assorted. The muscatels are classed as layers (neatly packed in fancy boxes), bunch, and loose, the last being picked off the stems. The best are for the London market; the worst, chiefly for Scotland and America. Of Valencia Raisins about half come to London, a large proportion of the remainder going to the United States and Canada. “ Sultanas are very largely consumed in Germany and in our Midland counties. The eleme (or hand-picked) are specially packed for our colonies and for ships’ stores, and come chiefly from Karabourna and Vourla (Asia Minor). The Chesme growth, unpicked and unselected, form the