TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 417 Semolina—continued. whites. Pour the whole into a souffle.mould and bake it in a brisk oven until well risen and nicely browned on the top. When cooked, dust the souffle over with caster sugar, and serve it immediately in the same mould, which should have a napikin pinned round it (see Fig. 489). Semolina Soup.—(1) Take the required quantity of nicely- flavoured stock Avell freed from fat, place it over the fire, and when boiling stir with one hand whilst shaking in with the other some veiy coarse Semolina. When the soup is sufficiently thick, stir for a few minutes longer over the fire. Turn the soup into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (2) Boil ^lb. of Semolina in milk for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the Semolina into a large saucepan with lqt. of highly-flavoured stock, and boil all together for a few minutes. Turn the soup into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Semolina Timbales.—Boil some Semolina in stock till cooked. Butter some small moulds, and fill them with the boiled Semolina. When cold, turn the timbales out of the moulds, sprinkle breadcrumbs over them, baste with yolks of eggs that have been beaten with warmed butter, and pepper, salt, and breadcrumb them again. Press a round tin cutter tin. less in diameter than the moulds into the top of each timbale, and fry them in boiling fat. When cooked, scoop out the middles of the timbales, and fill them with a cooked rabbit forcemeat that has been mixed with a puree of mushrooms. Put them on a dish in the oven to warm, then serve them. SEKiCIAIi.—A dry light-coloured Madeira wine of strong aroma and fine flavour, but not fit for tlie table until it is ten years old. SERVICE BERRIES.—The small apple-like fruit of the Service-tree, one of the Pyrus tribe. The name is also applied to the fruit of the American shad-bush, Mountain-ash berries, and Siberian crab-apples. Ser- vice-berries are used for making jams or jellies, and may be candied; suitable receipts for their preparation will be found under Crab-Apples. SERVIETTES.—The table-napkin or Serviette was introduced towards the middle of the fifteenth century, the table-cloth having hitherto been used for wiping the fingers at table, for which purpose it was usual to draw the cloth over the knees. According to Erasmus, it was at first usual to carry the napkin over the left arm or shoulder; a fashion that is now relegated to waiters. Thence it became usual to tie it round the neck to protect the full ruffs that were worn for a time, and from this practice arose the saying “ to make both ends meet,” a literal translation of the French proverb, “ noner les deux bouts de sa Serviette,” a playful allusion to the struggles of stout men with short arms to tie their napkins. Under the heading of Appearances, Mr. Corblet has very ably explained in this Encyclopedia the importance of decoration and ornament as an ac- companiment to food. Under Table-Decoration considerable information is given respecting arrangements of flowers, foliage, and different modes of lighting, such as candles and their holders, electricity, and gas ; but the value of the Serviette, or napkin, in adding grace to the table, requires special and individual treatment, where- fore some very elaborate and exquisite designs resulting from care, ingenuity, and skill, have been collected and inserted hereunder. Table-napkins, being rarely quite square, can be made so by turning in one side as much as will be necessary to form a square; this will give extra stiffness, which, in many cases, is an advantage. They must be well starched, or otherwise they will not remain in the folds or stand up, and they fold better when not quite dry. They should also not be too large, or, if they are beyond the usual size, should not be used for any of the smaller designs, as they Serviettes-- continued. are apt to look clumsy. Most napkins err on the side of smallness; they should not be less than 34 by 25in., and should match the pattern of the table-cloth. See Table-linen. Accordion Fan.—Fold the napkin almost in half, leaving an edge of about l|in. on the under-side, and turn up the bottom to the depth of 3in. Pleat it up in narrow pleats all one way, hold the bottom of it tightly in the left hand, with the folds towards you, and spread - it out at the top. Proceed to turn down the inner fold between each pleat, forming little points all the way along. Do the same to the upper fold, and to the edge of the napkin. This looks charming, but requires rather a stiff napkin and very careful handling. When finished, put it into a wineglass (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1). Arrow-head.—Fold the Serviette in three, lengthwise, double each end over towards the middle (as shown in Fig. 490); fold back A on either side to produce Fig. 491; keep the two sides flat on the table whilst you draw them towards the middle, causing the dotted line in centre to stand up: turn over the Serviette with top point towards you, fold this top point well over by the dotted line shown in Fig. 492, so that the centre portion again stands up, and cross the points A A underneath to produce the complete design (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1). VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 E