412 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ±c., rejerred to, see under their special heads. SCOTCH SHORTBREAD.—See Shortbread. SCOTCH WHISKY.—See Whisky. SCOTCH WOODCOCK.—If ever a dish deserved a special nomenclature, most assuredly this does. It is not only appreciated by the Scotch themselves, hut by every- body else who has had the exceeding good fortune to partake of it. (1) Cut some slices of bread into triangle-shaped pieces and fry them till a golden brown in butter. Wash and scrape some anchovies and chop them. Beat the yolks of four eggs with \ pint of milk, put it in a saucepan by the side of the fire, and stir until thick, but do not allow it to boil, or the eggs will curdle. Put the chopped anchovy between the slices of bread, arrange them tastefully on a hot dish, pour the custard over them, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, and serve. (2) Put I pint of cream into a saucepan with the well- beaten yolks of three eggs, and stir it over the tire till on the point of boiling, then move it off at once. Toast some slices of bread, trim off the crusts, butter them, spread with anchovy paste, and put them on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over the toast, and serve without delay. (3) Put 1 table-spoonful of anchovy paste in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of butter and stir in 1 wineglassful of cream and the beaten yolks of three and the whites of two eggs; season to taste with black and cayenne pepper. Pour the mixture into a small lined saucepan, place it over a bright fire, and stir the contents, always the same way, until thick. If it is not stirred the same way it will curdle and spoil. Put two or three slices of hot buttered toast, nicely trimmed of their crusts, on a hot dish, pour the mixture over, and serve at once. SCOTER.—See Black-Diver. SCOURING.—There is something very drastic in the sound of this word when applied to the cleansing of kitchen utensils. It is used in this sense to signify cleansing by friction, as with a brush, glass paper, or sand. The origin of the term is doubtful. SCREENS.—See Roasting. SCULLERY.—A place for washing plates and dishes. Probably the word is formed from the English swiller, with suffix y. SCULLION.—The original meaning of this word was a swab or dish-clout, being a corruption of the old French escouillon, a servant employed for base offices. The term scullion has been associated with the word scullery, and scullery with scullion, although, as an etymological fact, they have little or no connection. SEA-BASS.—See Bass. SEA-BREAM.—See Bream. SEA-CRAYEISH.—See Crayfish. SEA-HEDGEHOG.—The Sea-Hedgehog or Sea- Urchin is a shell-fish greatly relished by gourmets. They are found on the coasts of the Mediterranean, and at Marseilles. The summer is the best time for them, and they are prepared for serving as follows : In the middle of the bristling shell will be found a small aperture; dig the point of a large chisel into it, and cut all round, so as to lift the half of it off; drain the water, ami remove the dark parts between the rays of coral forming a star. Put the Hedgehogs on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve them. The red and soft meat are the only parts eaten. SEA-KALE,—An old French author wrote of Sea- Kale (Crambe maritama) as the “Chou marin sauvage d’Angleterre,” having possibly partaken of a dish of the wild plant. When cultivated and blanched (see Fig. 485) there is no other vegetable surpassing it in delicacy of flavour. The wild plant grows abundantly among the sand and shingle of seaside places, and is then easily Sea-kale —continued. recognised on account of its broad, wavy, toothed, grey- coloured leaves, covered with a light bloom. The flowers are white and smell strongly of honey. According to some historians Sea-Kale was known to the Romans, who gathered it in its wild state and stored it in barrels for use during long voyages. Al- though residents by the seaside have recognised its value as food for many cen- turies, it was not offered for sale in our markets before the middle of the eighteenth century. Its introduction to our table as a cultivated vegetable is said by some to have been brought about by Sir William Jones, of Chelsea, whereas others give Dr. Lettsom, of Camber- well, the credit of its ex- tended appreciation. When Careme visited England he fig. 435. Sea-kale. found it very plentiful, and described it in his writings as sekals, or sikeles, re- sembling “ branches of celery, and are to he served like asparagus with a butter sauce ; hut I prefer to serve them with Spanish sauce.” Sea-Kale should be cut when the leaves are purple ; if left till green they will be found hard and bitter. The young shoots and unopened leaves are the best parts, hut i the largest leaves do very well for soups. Forced Sea- j kale is very good in mid-winter. | Boiled Sea-kale.—(1) Put five heads of Sea-kale into a basin of water and wash them thoroughly to remove all the grit. Tie them up in a bunch and chop off the roots. Put the Sea kale in a saucepan with a little salted water, boil for twenty minutes, and drain it in a colander. Arrange some slices of toast without crusts on a dish, lay the Sea-kale on them, pour a little melted butter Sauce over, and serve. (2) Wash the Sea-kale, tie it into small bundles, and put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt and sufficient boiling- water to cover. When about half cooked, drain the kale, put it into a saucepan with some brown gravy and stock, and colour with a little browning. Stew the kale till cooked, then take it out, put it on a hot dish, thicken the liquor with a little flour, season it to taste with salt and pepper, pour it over the kale, and serve while hot. (3) Prepare the Sea-kale, tie it up into bundles, and put it into a saucepan of quickly-boiling water with a lump of salt. Prepare the following sauce for it: Pour f pint of clear white stock into a stewpan, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with two cloves, and half a blade of mace. Boil the stock for about lialf-an-hour, when strain it. Mix J2 table-spoonful of arrowroot smoothly with a small quantity of milk, add it to the stock, pour the whole back into the stewpan, and stir it on the fire until boiling again. When the Sea-kale is cooked, drain it, place it on a hot dish over which has been put two slices of toast, mix 1 teacupful of thick cream with the sauce, pour it over the kale, and serve. (4) Wash the kale well, tie it in bundles, put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil very fast till tender. Put into a basin 2 table-spoonfuls of olive-oil, 1 table- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, and a small quantity of pepper and salt. Beat the above ingredients till well mixed and smooth. Drain the Sea kale when it is cooked, put it on to a hot dish, pour the dressing over, and serve. (5) Wash and trim the kale, tie it up in bundles, put them in a saucepan with plenty of boiling salted water, and boil quickly until cooked. Put 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, put in 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire; mix in smoothly 1 f- break- fast-cupfuls of hot water, and stir until boiling. Season