TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 202 Pistachios—continued. cutters, place them on sheets of wafer-paper spread over a baking-sheet, put them in a very slow oven, and bake to a light golden colour. Take them out when done, remove the paper, and they are ready for use. Pistachio Tablets.—Blanch Mb. of Pistachios, and as the skins are removed plunge them into water; take them out, drain them, put them in a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding a little spinach-green for colouring. Put 21b. of crushed loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler, boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar-boiling), add the pounded Pistachio mixture, boil it again to the same degree, remove the boiler from the fire, let it remain for five minutes to cool, then work it well with a spatula against the sides of the boiler until it has a granulated appearance, and push it back into the middle of the boiler. Have ready a shallow mould, fold some stiff cartridge paper to the shape of the pan, put it in, and pour in the hot syrup. Let it cool slightly, mark it with a knife into the shapes required, and when cold break it into these shapes and they are ready for use. Pistachio Toroni.—For this fresh purple-skinned Pistachios should be used. Put |lb. of sifted crushed loaf sugar and the whites of three eggs into a copper egg-bowl, and add loz. of candied orar.ge-flowers to flavour. Set the bowl over a very slow fire, and whisk vigorously until the mixture is of the consistence of meringue paste. Add ilb. of Pis- tachios blanched and cut into shreds, mix well, and pour the paste out on to sheets of wafer-paper, cut in the shape of small ovals and spread over a baking-sheet. Put the baking-sheet in a very moderate oven or in the dry closet, as they only require to be dried and not baked ; take them out when done, remove the paper, and they are ready for use. Pistachio Water-Ice.—Put 6oz. of blanched Pistachios into a mortar and pound to a pulp, adding a little water to prevent them oiling. Turn this mixture out into a basin, mix it up with 1 pint of lemon water-ice, pass it all through a fine sieve into a freezer, turn it out into a mould packed in ice, and when set it is ready for use. Pistachio Zephyrs.—Put the whites of four eggs into a copper sugar-boiler and add til), of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Set the boiler over a slow fire and whisk the contents vigorously to a thick white and frothy icing; add Mb. of finely-shred Pistachios and a few drops of essence of vanilla or orange-flower water. Put some sheets of wafer- paper on a baking-sheet, and with a large spoon lay out the zephyrs in pieces, the size of a walnut or a little larger, keeping them 1 tin. apart. Sprinkle over with caster sugar, put the baking-sheet into a very moderate oven, and bake the zephyrs to a light golden colour; take them out when done, remove the paper, and when they are quite cold they are ready for use. PITHIVIERS ALMOND CAKE.—See Almonds. PIZZA.—This, a sort of cake, is a favourite dish in Naples, and should be eaten directly it is made. It can be prepared as follows: Put a pound and a half of light well-risen dough on to a well-floured board or table, flatten it with the hands, raise the edge slightly, smear a little oil over it, and garnish with tomatoes cut in halves, small fresh anchovies, or fillets of salted anchovies, or both together in equal quantities. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper to taste, also a lit tie finely-chopped garlic, mixed with finely-chopped pars- ley and sweet herbs, and baste the whole with a little more of the oil. Put the Pizza into an oven, heated for bread, bake it for twenty minutes with the oven door open, and when done put it on a dish, and serve at once. PLAICE (Fr. Plies; Ger. Schollen; Ital. Passeri; Sp. Platijas).—These are rather large flat fish (Pleuronectes platessa), caught principally in European waters. Those Plaice caught along the Sussex coast are known as diamond, in allusion to having the lozenge-shaped orange marks on their backs. The best Plaice (see Fig. 257) are caught between Hastings and Folkestone, and are known as For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Plaice—continued. Dowers Plaice. They continue in season from about May throughout the best part of the year. The finest weigh from about six to eight pounds, and when in con- dition the underside should have a reddish tinge; the Fig. 257. Plaice. body should be thick and firm, and the eyes bright. Plaice are not much esteemed as cooking fish, being some- what tasteless and watery ; but prepared according to the following receipts they are not to be despised. Baked Plaice.—Select a large Plaice, wash and clean it thoroughly, and trim off the fins and the end of the tail. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley with 1 tea- cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, and season them with salt and pepper to taste. Melt a lump of dripping in a pie-dish, then put in half of the seasoned breadcrumbs, spreading them well over the bottom of the dish, put in the fish, and cover with the remainder of the breadcrumbs, and a few small pieces of dripping on the top. Place the tin in a brisk oven and bake the contents for half-an-hour. When cooked, take out the fish carefully and lay it on a hot flat dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve while hot. Boiled Plaice.—Clean and draw a Plaice, cut it down the back nearly to the bone, and put it in a fish-kettle containing salted water. Set the pan on the fire and boil the Plaice for seven minutes or so, when the fish should be quite done. Take it out carefully with a fish-slice, put it on a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. A little saltpetre should also be added to the salted water before cooking. Broiled Plaice.—(1) Clean the required number of Plaice, wash them well, brush them over with olive oil, and dust with salt and pepper. Have ready some mats made of straw cut into lengths (like the mats used for cream cheeses), put the Plaice on them, then on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Put them on a dish, pour over some caper sauce, and serve hot. (2) Clean and wash a Plaice, mb it well on both sides with salt, hang it up in a place where there is a draught of air, and let it remain for a day or a day and a half; then put it on a gridiron over a clear but slow fire and broil until done. When cooked, put it on a dish and serve with a little butter melted to oil, and lemon-juice poured over it. If desired, it may be cut into quarters or eighth i parts before being cooked. Fricasseed Fillets of Plaice.—Clean and wash a Plaice, dry it on a cloth, cut it down the back to the bone, and care- fully remove the fillets. Sprinkle them over with flour and salt, put them into a frying-pan with a good supply of lard or dripping, and fry them for about ten minutes, when they should be done and crisp. Put a dozen finely-chopped oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, and add 1 breakfast-cup- ful of white wine, three anchovies, a little grated nutmeg, - and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan on the fire, stew the contents gently for a few minutes, then add the fillets of Plaice and a small piece of butter. Continue to stew Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.