TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 383 For detaits respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, **., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. such Sauces as Worcestershire, Harvey’s, anchovy, soy, mushroom, and other ketchups for their flavours, Continental cooks barely recognise their presence in the Fig. 452. Block-tin Colander. kitchen, relying almost exclusively upon obtaining the flavours they require from the articles themselves, using bottled sauces merely as supplements. Fig. 453. Copper Colander. The highest art of the culinary profession is exhibited in a preparation of Sauces; those that shall acquire the very flavour that it is necessary to increase, improve, or Sauces—continued. Kettner observes, “ The language of the English table suggests a distinction between Sauces and gravies, and I have in my time listened to many curious discussions as to what is and what is not a Sauce, what is and what is not a gravy. In common parlance and in the chief dictionaries, Fig. 455. Herb-tray. gravy always means the juice of roasted meat; in the kitchen and in cookery books, it has been found necessary to extend its meaning to the juice of meat however obtained, whether from roasting or decoction. The word Sauce in its origin is a doublet of salt, in its modern use it Fig. 456. Spice-box. Fig. 454. Broth-napkin Stretched on Frame. nearly always implies a liquid, and it may be defined in the most general terms as any liquid seasoning employed in the presentation of food. Gravy or the juice of meat is always a Sauce, although a Sauce is not always a gravy. On the other hand the great Sauces, as they are called in develop the flavour of the viand with which it is served, ilie celebrated Marquis De Cussy wrote that a cook or more roaster can be created by teaching, but to be a Sauce-maker the genius must be born in him. Fig. 457. Double Boiler. France, have gravy for their foundation, this too in its most concentrated form, and it would be more distinctive to call them, at least in England, gravies.” Before entering upon the consideration of individual Sauces, it will be advisable to give some instructions that