THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 340 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rissoles—continued. and exit out with a fluted cutter (see Fig. 397, B), the Rissoles in each case being fried in hot fat. Several receipts are given under special headings, such as Beef, Crayfish, Fowl, &e. RISSOLETTES—Literally small rissoles. See Beef, Mutton, &c. RIZINE.—A preparation of rice, which is strongly recommended by its originators for the purpose of making puddings, &c. ROACH (Fr. Gardons ; Ger. Rotaugen).—A Euro- pean fresh-water fish (Leuciscus rutilus). It is silver Fig. 398. Roach. white about the body, with red fins, and dai-k green back (see Fig. 398). The Roach is not much valued as a food fish. It may be cooked as follows : Boiled Roach.—Wash and clean a Roach, put it on a dish, cover with a mixture of vinegar, claret, and salad-oil, and sprinkle over a few minced sweet herbs, pepper, and ground mace, and cloves. Let the Roach remain in this for a couple of hours, then put it into a saucepan with the liquor, and boil gently over a quick fire until done. Lay it on a dish, strain the liquor over, and serve. Broiled Roach.—Scale and draw the fish, remove the gills, wash it, and dry it on a cloth. Lay it on a dish with a few slices of ginger, some rosemary and marjoram, and any other sweet herb liked; add peppercorns, cloves, and mace, and baste it with a few table-spoonfuls of vinegar, salad-oil, and claret. Leave the fish for two or three hours, then lay it on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire, turning it often and basting with a small quantity of the liquor in which it was macerated. Put \ pint of white wine in a stewpan with a third of the quantity of pickled oyster liquor, the strained juice of two oranges, and a small quantity of vinegar; when boiling move, the sauce to the edge of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg and a small lump of fresh butter broken into little pieces. When cooked, place the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Stewed Roach.—Scale the fish, trim off the gills, and wash them well; dry them on a clean cloth, rub them over with flour, and fry in butter. Put \ pint of claret in a stew- pan with \ pint of water, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the fish with a sliced orange, a finely- chopped anchovy, a small slice of ginger, three or four cloves, salt and pepper, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and pounded mace. Put the lid on the stewpan and stew the fish gently until it is tender, turning it occasionally. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, arrange the slices of orange round it, and the spices on the top. Take as much of the cooking-liquor of the fish as will be required to make the sauce, mix with it a small lump of butter, boil it up, and pour over the fish. Garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. ROASTING.—The process of cooking known by this name may be regarded as distinct from baking, broiling, and frying, although it bears some resemblance to them as being affected by dry heat, at the highest possible tem- pei-ature that can be used without incinerating. In this Roasting—continued. it differs materially from boiling, stewing, &c., the heat in these latter cases being applied through water or other liquid which admits only of the degree of temperature at or a little above that of boiling water, and often a few degrees lower. A celebrated authority on cooking has given the following instructions : “ The essential condition of good Roasting is constant basting, and this the meat is not likely to have when shut up in an iron box oven; and what is not easily done is easily neglected. Make up your fire, not by shooting on a scuttle of coals, but laying on the coals with your hands, using an old glove. Arrange the lumps of coal so that air passes freely into the fire. By this arrangement you may avoid stirring the fire, which should be done as little as possible. Just before putting down the meat (which may be suspended by a piece of worsted, if you have no other arrangement) clear up the fireplace and throw to the back of the fire all the cinders and a little small coal slightly wetted. This will prevent waste of fuel, and throw the heat where you want it, in the front. If you have a meat-screen, place it before the fire, so as to get moderately heated before the meat is hung to the fire. “ Heat reflected from bright metallic surfaces never dries or scorches the meat. Arrange the dripping-pan so that no ashes can fall into it, and just as far below the meat as will enable you to baste it easily. If you have a little dripping or stock, put about a gill into the dripping for basting. Place a newspaper on the floor, this will keep your hearth clean. There is a right and a wrong way of hanging a piece of meat to roast. The thickest part should hang a trifle below the centre of the fire, and if this can be best done by hanging the shank of a leg of mutton downwards, do so. The time required for roasting will be modified by circumstances, and different kinds and qualities of meat require somewhat different treatment. The time usually allowed is from fifteen to twenty minutes for a pound. Before removing the meat from the fire press the lean part with the thumb; if the meat yields easily, or if the meat steams to the fire, it is done. Never sprinkle salt over the meat till about a quarter of an hour before it is ready. Pour away the dripping before using the salt, because fat for puddings, pies, and frying, is better without salt. You may dredge a little flour over it, and every part should be of a nice pale brown. If any part be scorched or blackened, you have failed in your cooking. Pour off the dripping, leaving in the pan the pure gravy free from fat. Have a gill or half-a-pint of stock or broth, or water ready, pour it into the dripping-pan, rinse it round, strain it into the dish, and send it to table as quickly as possible. Some cooks tie a piece of buttered paper on the meat.” Whilst quite prepared to admit that some excellent advice is given in the foregoing instructions, they are nevertheless somewhat crude, requiring a considerable amount of additional information to render them of specific value to the cook. Roasting is an art requiring special knowledge, not only of the foods to be operated 1 upon, but also of the different effects of different degrees of heat upon various substances. This requires practical experience, governed by common sense, enabling the cook to distinguish between those meats which roast easily to the centre, and those which offer at the r very outset considerable resistance to the inward action