425 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. shown in Fig. 516), being careful to keep on the outside the portions folded over in Fig. 515 ; the corners marked C C are now to he folded inwardly between the two triangles, making Fig. 517. Bring together the points of the upper triangle, marked A A, and tuck the left-hand securely into the right-hand folds (Fig. 518); turn over the Serviette, and repeat with second triangle, thus forming two pockets. This is a good design for children’s suppers, as crackers look well standing in the Serviette (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2), and sometimes flowers or a small present is placed in one of the pockets. Easel.—This is a variety of the “ Every-day ” (described below). When the design shown in Fig. 519 has been Fig. 519. The Every-day. made, cross the two folds at the bottom, draw the right- hand one towards the left, and the left-hand one to the right, giving the design a triangular appearance. Turn over the napkin, and place the bread inside the opening or under the point (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). Every-day.—Fold the napkin in three, crease the centre, and turn down each side of the top edge towards the middle to meet at the crease, as in Fig. 519 A ; fold two or three times, or roll the ends (A and B) till even with the lower edge, turn over the napkin, and bring the folds Serviettes-—continued. to meet in the centre (as in Fig. 519). The bread is placed between or underneath the folds. This is a very easy way, and very nice for every-day use. Fan.—Fold the napkin in three lengthwise, then pleat half of it as evenly as possible into the centre. Pleat from the other side also into the centre, so that the pleats face each other. Press them down firmly, and, holding the napkin tightly together, insert it in a rather large wine- or claret-glass; spread it out at the top, as in Fig. 520. This looks particularly pretty when put into red or green glasses. Fleur de Lis.—Have the Serviette open on the table, and fold it in half from you, and again in half length- wise, so that the selvedges are at the top. Fold the sides Fig. 521. to the middle, forming Fig. 521; turn the top points A and b to the centre so that they meet at C (Fig. 521a), turn over the Serviette, and fold the outside to the centre, producing Fig. 521B ; double A on to A and well press the folds with a paper-knife, then hold the Serviette firmly whilst you draw out the three inner folds on either side at the top. The two points marked C c should be turned upwards to form the base, as shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2, but before standing up the Serviette, the lower portion of the folded parts should be well pressed together at the waist.