TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 343 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rockfish—continued. the goodly size of from I8in. to 30in. long, and is very thick and deep, it forms an excellent dish. They are almost universally boiled and served with egg sauce, the cold meat making an excellent salad. See Bass. Boiled Rockfish..—Scrape off the scales of a Rockfish, take out the gills, and wash it nicely; put it in a pot with sufficient cold water to cover and 4 table-spoonful of salt, and let it boil slowly, keeping the pot covered all the while ; when done, skim well and drain the water from it, lay it on a dish, and garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. Rockfish Salad.—Remove tire skin and bone from a cold boiled Rockfish, and flake the flesh with two forks; put it into a deep dish, cover with oil and vinegar mixed in equal quantities, season with salt and pepper, and let it stand for four hours. Wash the hearts of two lettuces, pull the leaves asunder, and put them in a salad-bowl; ' drain the fish, put it in with the lettuces, and mix well in with it some picked shrimps. Pour a mayonnaise dressing over the salad, garnish it with sliced beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and some small white leaves of lettuce, and serve. Fig. 407. Rocambole. ROCOLNIC .—The Polish name for a soup made with poultry and other things, for which the two follow- ing are good receipts. See also Ducks. Rocolnic Soup.—(1) Put a couple of fowls into a saucepan with their scalded giblets, and add lOoz. of ham or lean bacon, 61b. of veal, and 21b. of beef cut into pieces. Pour over sufficient water to moisten, boil up quickly, remove the pan from the fire, set it at the side, and boil slowly for an hour. Add three carrots, a stick of celery, a large bunch of parsley, and six cloves, and continue to simmer till all the meat is done. Remove the cloves, strain the liquor through a line sieve into another saucepan, add 12oz. of ground buckwheat or semolina, and cook slowly for half-an-hour. Skim well, add a little chopped parsley and fennel-leaves, turn the whole into a tureen, and serve with the meat from the fowl and the ham or bacon. (2) Polish Style.—Put a small finely-chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter, blown it, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and when that is nicely browned add 4. gall, of rich broth and 1 pint of the iiquor from gherkins preserved in salted water. Stir well until the liquor boils, then add two fowls, and boil until they are nearly done; take them out, skim and strain the soup into another saucepan, boil it up again, and keep the soup hot. In the meantime cut a few carrots and a little celery into small pieces, blanch them, put them into a, saucepan with a little chopped parsley and a small quan- tity of broth, and cook gently until the liquor is reduced to Rocolnic—continued. a glaze. Now add them to the soup, together with a few slices of gherkins blanched in a little syrup, thicken the soup with a little sour cream mixed with the yolks of three eggs and passed through a sieve, sprinkle in a little finely-chopped green fennel, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. ROD GRO.—The name of a famous Danish dish which is prepared as follows: Put lqt. of the juice of any red fruit into a saucepan with 4-gall, of water, add fib. of sago and sufficient sugar to taste, and stir slowly over the fire until the sago is quite transparent, but without becoming at all thick or clogged. Turn the preparation into a mould, let it stand until it is set and firm, turn it on to a dish, and serve with vanilla cream. ROES (TV. Laitances ; Ger. Rogen).—There are two kinds of Roe, classified as hard and soft. The bard Roe is the eggs of the female fish, and the soft Roe is the milt of the male. Hard Roes are known to us as caviare, boutargue, and the dried and smoked Roe of the cod. These are all described under their own head- ings. The soft Roe or milt is best cooked in a sort of ragout or stew. The following are well-known receipts: Roe Soup.—This is said to be the invention of the celebrated scholar Erasmus. Take lib. of soft Roe of any fish and cook it for ten minutes in acidulated salted water; then take it out, and put it into cold salted water to get rid of the acid. Drain it, cut it into pieces, and then warm them up in 2qts. of good broth, with lqt. of young peas; when the peas are cooked, pour the broth over some croutons of fried bread in a tureen, and sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of blanched and chopped fennel. Roe Toast.—Slices of buttered toast with cooked Roe upon them, seasoned with pepper and salt. Stewed Roe.—(1) Blanch the Roe in acidulated water, then drain it; put it into a saucepan, pour over some highly- seasoned and strained liquor that fish has been boiled in, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Then take the Roe out and keep it hot. Boil the liquor until somewhat reduced, mix in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten together with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream and the juice of half a lemon, stir it at the side of the fire until thickened, but without letting it boil again, or the eggs will curdle. Place the Roe on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (2) Blanch the Roe, then put it into a saucepan with a large lump of butter, a few crayfish-tails and artichoke- bottoms, and 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and chives. Pour in h pint of fish broth and boil the Roe for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take it out of the sauce- pan, place it on a hot dish, and keep it near the fire. Move the sauce to the edge of the fire and mix in quickly the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and a few drops of vinegar. Stir the sauce until thick, but it must not boil again or the eggs will curdle; pour it over the fish, and serve. ROEBUCK (Fr. Chevreuil; Ger. Rehbock).—The flesh of almost all animals of the deer kind might be classified under the comprehensive heading of venison, but to the British cook there is a wide distinction between tire flesh of the Roebuck and that of the Fallow or Park Deer, which they alone recognise as venison. The Roebuck is commonly eaten in Paris and in Scotland, where it is known as the Red Deer, but in either case it is considered inferior to tame venison. The following receipts are chiefly of French origin : Baked Larded Saddle of Roebuck.—Trim a saddle of Roebuck, lard it with strips of fat bacon, put it into a baking-dish over a few vegetables cut in pieces, sprinkle over a little salt, and pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine to moisten. Set the dish in the oven and bake, basting frequently; put the saddle of Roebuck on a dish when cooked, glaze it with a brush, and serve.