THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 322 For Uetails respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. According to Letheby the composition of Rice is, in a hundred parts : Nitrogenous matter ... ... ... 6-3 Carbo-hydrates ... ... ... ... 79o Fatty matter ... ... ... ... 0-7 Saline matter ... ... 0-5 Water ... ... . . . ... 13'0 By the following receipts it will be seen that Rice can be used in a great many ways, either by itself or in com- bination with other things, sweets, or savouries. It is also much used by artistic cooks for making what are called, socles, borders, &c.; before using, Rice should be washed as follows : Put the Rice in a large strainer, and set it in a bowl of water, lifting the Rice carefully so that the grit and dirt will fall to the bottom of the bowl through the sieve. Con- tinue in this way, changing the water frequently, until it is perfectly clear. Boiled Rice.—(1) Well wash about 12oz. of Rice, using several waters, tie it up in a cloth, allowing plenty of room to swell, put it into a saucepan of cold water, and boil for about two hours. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve with jam or sweet sauce. (2) Clean and wash about fib. of Rice, place it in a saucepan with 1 h pints of cold water and 1 pinch of salt, put the lid on, and boil for twenty-two minutes. Pour it through a colander, being careful to let it drain thoroughly without crushing the Rice, otherwise the appearance will be spoiled. When well drained, return it to the sauce- pan, put the lid on, and leave it on the corner of the stove to dry gradually for five or six minutes, when it will be ready to use as required. Boiled Rice with. Apricots.—Thoroughly wash a scant teacupful of Rice, put it in a saucepan with as much milk as it will absorb and loaf sugar to taste, and boil it gently until tender. When cooked, flavour slightly with essence of vanilla, move the Rice away from the fire, and let it get cold. Put the beaten yolks of four eggs in a stewpan with 1 teacupful of milk, stir them over the fire until thickened but not boiling, and leave it until cold. When the custard and Rice are cold, mix them together. Whip I pint of cream to a stiff froth, having previously sweet- ened it with caster sugar, and mix with it ioz. of isinglass that has been dissolved in a small quantity of warm water. Stir the cream lightly in with the Rice, put the mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice. Cut some apricots (tinned ones will do nicely), into halves, remove the stones, put them in a stewpan with syrup to cover them, and let them simmer gently until tender. Drain the apricots, and keep Fig. 378. Boiled Rice with Apricots. them in a cool place. When ready to serve dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the Rice on to a glass dish, and arrange the apricots round it (see Fig. 37 S). Boiled Rice with Cheese. Have ready 2 or 3 breakfast- cupfuls of boiled Rice, put a little of it at the bottom of a dish, sprinkle over a little grated cheese, cover with Rice—continued. tomato sauce, and continue in this way until the dish is full. Warm in the oven, and serve. A covering of bread- crumbs with a few pieces of butter over them may be added. Boiled Rice and Cream.—Put 1 pint of cold milk into a saucepan, add 1 pint of water and h saltspoonful of salt, and place the pan on the hot stove; when boiling, throw in 4oz. of well-cleaned raw Rice, and with a spatula stir slowly and continually at the bottom while it is cooking for twenty-five minutes. Take the pan off the fire, and add immediately 4oz. of powdered sugar and loz. of butter, and mix well together with a spatula for two minutes. Transfer the mixture into another vessel, and set it in a cold place for one hour. Whisk to a stiff froth 1 pint of sweet cream, cover the basin with a napkin, and let it rest for twenty minutes; should there be any milk settled at the bottom pour it off, and add to the cream 2oz. of powdered sugar and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring; then with a wire whisk beat together for two minutes longer. Take the Rice from the vessel, drop it gradually into the whipped cream, and mix the whole together slowly and carefully for three minutes, bine a 2qt. melon-shaped mould with 3oz. of peach marmalade, fill the mould with the preparation, put on the cover, and after placing a little broken ice at the bottom of the pail lay in the mould and cover it entirely with broken ice (no salt is necessary for this), and freeze for one hour. Have a vessel with 2qts. of lukewarm water, lift up the mould from the pail, dip it into the water, wash off the ice, and raise it up immediately; remove the cover, turn the pre- paration on to a cold dish, and send to table. Boiled Rice for Curry.—Well wash the Rice, put it into a saucepan with a good supply of water and a little salt, and boil for a few minutes; pour off the water, add more cold water, and boil up a second time. When the Rice is soft, which can be ascertained by trying one or two grains, pour off all the water again, turn the Rice on to a hot plate, and stir it well with two forks, so as to let the steam evaporate, and have the Rice well done and the grains separate. Boiled Rice Dumplings.—Pick over 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice, wash it in cold water, put it in a saucepan over the fire to boil in 2qts. of boiling water containing 1 table- spoonful of salt, and boil the Rice fast for twenty minutes, then drain it on a sieve. While the Rice is being boiled, peel and core half-a-dozen medium-sized apples of good flavour, and fill the centres 114111 sugar and spice or any jelly or marmalade. When the Rice is drained, put some of it round each apple in a layer about tin. thick, taking care to entirely cover the apples, and tie each one in a small pudding-cloth. When all the dumplings are pre- pared, drop them into boiling water, and boil them steadily for an hour; then remove the cloths, and serve the dumplings without breaking them. Use any sweet sauce with them. An egg may be mixed with the Rice before putting it over the apples by way of varying the dish. Boiled Rice with Sweet Sauce.—Wash tlb. of Rice and lib. of currants, tie them together loosely in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for an hour. Prepare the following sauce: Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix them over the fire; then stir in gradually 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of any kind of essence liked, continuing to stir the sauce until boiling. When the Rice is cooked, turn it out of the cloth on to a hot dish, pour the sauce ovei if, and serve. Carriole of Rice. -Wash a sufficient quantity of Rice well, and boil it in water for five minutes; then strain it, and put it over the fire in a stewpan with a slice of bam, an onion, and a bit of butter, and stew it till tender, lake it from the fire, and mix well into it the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten. Line a mould with veiy thin slices of bacon, then put in all over the bacon a layer of the mixture of boiled Rice and eggs tin. thick, so that the mould is lined throughout with bacon and Rice; put into it a ragout of veal, rabbit, fowl, or any other