THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 298 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. 1 teaspoonful or more of moist sugar, toss them about over the fire until they are nicely browned, and glaze them; then mix them and the bacon with the Itabbit. A few button-mushrooms may be added if desired. Keep the ragofit boiling gently at the side of the fire for about twenty minutes or half-an-hour‘longer. When it is ready, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, turn the ragofit on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 349), and serve. (3) Having prepared the Rabbit, cut it up into con- venient-sized pieces (if a large one it should make about ten pieces); put them in a stewpan with plenty of butter, and strew over them some finely-minced shallot, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms; season to taste with salt and pepper, dust them over with a small quantity of flour, and toss them about over the fire until lightly browned. Pour in sufficient white wine and stock to moisten the pieces of Rabbit to height, add the liver of the Rabbit, and boil the whole gently for twenty minutes. Next take out the liver and pound it in a mortar; when smooth put it in again with the pieces of Rabbit. Turn the ragofit on to a hot dish, garnish it with crofltons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve. Roasted Rabbit.—(1) Skin and clean a Rabbit, chop off the fore-legs at the first joint and the hind-legs above the knuckle joint, truss it, put it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast for about twenty-five minutes. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with poivrade or other sauce in a sauceboat. A slice or two of fat bacon should be tied over the back to prevent it burning, and this should be taken off a few minutes before the Rabbit is done, so that the back will brown. The Rabbit may be larded or not, as desired. (2) Skin and clean a Rabbit, and stuff it with a mixture of breadcrumbs, chopped beef-suet, and fat pork, seasoned with 1 pinch of sweet marjoram, a chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient hot water to moisten. Sew up the cut with fine thread, tie the legs close to the body in a kneeling position, place it in a roasting-pan with its back upwards, pour over § pint of water, cover with another pan inverted, and roast for about forty- five minutes. Remove the cover, dredge the Rabbit with flour, and baste it well with the drippings in the pan and a little butter; when well browned, put it on a dish and keep it hot. Strain the drippings, skim off the fat, add a little seasoning, thicken until browned flour, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly and a small quantity of chopped parsley. Bring it to the boil, pour a little over the Rabbit, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. (3) Put lib. of veal and 4oz. of pork into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for a couple of hours. Take them out, chop them very fine, and mix in four rolled crackers, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful each of pepper and sweet herbs, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 24 teacupfuls of the stock from the veal and pork. Put this forcemeat into a saucepan at the side of the fire and keep it hot. Draw, skin, and clean a Rabbit, cut off its head, wash it well, and sprinkle it inwardly with salt and pepper. Put in the hot stuffing, sew up the Rabbit, trass it to give it the appearance of being on its knees, brush it over with warmed butter, and sprinkle it with flour. Pour a little water into a baking-dish, put the Rabbit in it, place it in a quick oven, and cook for half-an-hour, basting frequently. Put a border of mashed potatoes round a dish, place the Rabbit in the centre, pour the strained gravy over, and serve very hot. Roasted Rabbit served with Currant Jelly.—Draw a Rabbit, wash it in warm w^ter, and wipe it dry on a cloth. Wash the liver, heart, and lungs, and put them on one side. Peel and chop a moderately large onion, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Chop fine the liver, heart, and lungs of the Rabbit, put them in with the onion, and fry them also, seasoning with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley; stir the mixture over the fire for two or three minutes with a wooden spoon, then move it to the side, and stir Rabbits—continued. in the beaten yolks of two eggs and loz. of butter. Fill the Rabbit with the mixture, sew up the incision, lay the Rabbit on its belly on the table, and skewer the ears so that they seem to be naturally bent on to the back of its neck; with a trussing-needle fasten the fore legs so that they look also as if naturally bent by the animal when at rest. Bind a sheet of buttered paper round it, fix it on the spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it continually with butter. When cooked, remove the paper and skewers from the Rabbit, put it on a hot dish, garnish with crofltons of red-currant jelly, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear gravy. Raspberry jelly is also very nice served with it. Roasted Rabbit served with Olives.—Clean a Rabbit, lard its fleshy parts with strips of salted pork, wrap it up in a sheet of buttered paper, fastening it with skewers or binding twine round it; fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently. About ten minutes before taking the Rabbit from the fire, the paper should be removed to allow it to brown. When the Rabbit is cooked, pour the gravy out of the dripping-pan into a small saucepan, adding some clear beef gravy if there is not sufficient, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and put in three dozen stoned olives. Stir the sauce over the lire and boil it for five minutes. Untruss the Rabbit, put it on a hot dish, garnish round with the olives, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Roasted Rabbit and Oysters.—Select a nice plump Rabbit, remove the heart and lights, and wipe it on a clean cloth. Beard and drain a dozen oysters, chop them finely, mix with them two chopped sponge cakes and 2oz. of butter, and season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stuff the Rabbit with the mixture, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it slowly for an hour, removing the paper ten minutes before taking it up from the fire so that it may brown. Put 2oz. of fresh butter and 4 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until well mixed, then pour in gradually the oyster liquor, and season with a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and cinnamon. Continue stirring the mixture, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Strain the sauce on to a hot dish, lay the Rabbit on it, and serve. Scotch Rabbit Pie.—Prepare 41b. of puff paste. Skin, wash, and dry a Rabbit, dismember it, and cut it up rather small. • Cut off and chop about 1 table-spoonful from 4oz. of fat bacon, and slightly cook the remainder. Parboil and mince the heart and liver of the Rabbit, put it into a basin with the table-spoonful of chopped fat bacon, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs or grated bread, half that quantity of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little seasoning of grated nutmeg and pepper. Stir thoroughly, and add half an egg well beaten to form a paste. Separate this into small pieces, and roll them into balls. Put a layer of the Rabbit at the bottom of a pie- dish, over this put some of the bacon cut in slices, then some of the forcemeat balls, and continue in this way until all are used up. Pour in a good supply of stock or water, cover the pie with the paste, brush the surface with egg, and bake for an hour in a moderately hot oven. Take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Smothered Rabbit in Onions.—Cut a Rabbit into con- venient-sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with four large peeled onions, a few cloves, a lump of salt, five or six peppercorns, and plenty of water, and boil for fifteen minutes; then take out the onions and chop them finely. Put a small lump of butter in a clean saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; then put in the onions and pieces of Rabbit, moisten with milk to height, and season with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Keep the whole simmering very slowly at the side of the fire for an hour. At the end of that time put loz. of butter with the Rabbit, and when it has melted turn the whole on to a hot dish. Garnish with crofltons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve while very hot. Stewed Rabbit.—(1) Draw, skin, and wash a Rabbit, and cut - it into pieces about 2in. in length. Cut 4lb. of streaky