272 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pumpkins—continued. them with the mixture, and bake. When baked, serve the pies. Pumpkin Flowers Stuffed with Forcemeat.—Wipe twelve well-opened Pumpkin-flowers, and remove the pistils. Make a stutiing with two-thirds lean mutton, one-third beef- kidney suet, and 1 breakfast-cupful of partially cooked rice; mix with it a small quantity of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and two or three beaten eggs. Stuff the flowers with the forcemeat, and close them carefully. Line the bottom of a flat stewpan with ham, bacon, and minced vegetables, put the Pumpkin-flowers in, cover them with thin slices of bacon, and add a little broth and 1 tea- cupful of tomato sauce. Boil gently till the liquor is reduced to half, then move the stewpan to the side of the lire and simmer till the vegetables are tender. Take the Pumpkins, &c., out, and put them on a hot dish; pour a little gravy in the stewpan, boil it up, skim it, drain it over the vegetables, and serve. Pumpkin Fritters.— Trim off both the ends of some long- shaped, but not too large, oval Pumpkins, cut them into long square fingers, put them in a dish, dust salt over, and leave them for ten minutes; shake the dish once or twice during the time. Dram the pieces, wipe them on a cloth, Fig. 329. Pumpkin Fritters. and nib them over quickly with flour. Put some dripping in a frying-pan, and when hot turn in the pieces and fry them. When cooked, drain them and sprinkle with salt. Serve in a hot dish (see Pig. 329). Pumpkin Pie.—(1) Boil and strain the Pumpkins, allowing for 3 pints 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, four eggs, lib. of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of ground ginger, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2qts. of milk. Mix all together while the Pumpkin is hot. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a thin layer of short paste, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for a little under an hour. Serve the pie while hot. (2) Drain 3 breakfast-cupfuls of cooked Pumpkin as dry as possible and mash it smoothly; mix with it 1 tea- cupful of moist sugar, 1 teacupful of flour, J teaspoonful of ground ginger, and a small quantity of salt. Pour in gradually 1 teacupful of milk, and work it until perfectly smooth and free from lumps. Rub 2oz. of lard into Jib. of flour, and add 1 saltspoonful of salt; when very smooth stir in gradually sufficient water to make a stiff paste, then roll it out. Butter a shallow pie-dish, line it with the paste, pour in the squash mixture, put it into a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-liour. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, and leave it until cold before serving. (3) Peel the Pumpkin and cut it into small pieces, removing all the seeds. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, line them with a good pie-crust, put in the pieces of Pumpkin, with 2oz. of well-washed and dried currants, 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of moist sugar, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg. Cover the pie with a flat of the paste, trim it off round the edges, which moisten with a little water and press together. Bake the pie in a brisk oven for half- an-liour, and serve when cold. (4) Peel the Pumpkin, slice it, and remove the seeds; boil the Pumpkin in water with a small piece of salt in it, and when tender, mash it through a fine hair sieve. Beat six eggs well and stir them into the pulp with sufficient cold milk to bring it to the consistency of a Pumpkins—continued. moderately thick batter. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with very small quantities of powdered cinnamon, ginger, and grated lemon-peel. Butter a shallow dish and line it with puff paste; spread in the above mixture, dust it over with grated nutmeg, and bake for an hour in a good oven. Serve hot. (5) Boil the Pumpkin gently until soft enough to mash, then drain; and pass it through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Mix sufficient milk with the Pumpkin to make a thin batter; measure the batter, and to every breakfast- cupful mix in one well-beaten egg and 1 table-spoonful of sugar. Flavour to taste with essence of lemon and grated nutmeg, adding a small quantity of salt, also ground ginger if liked. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good pie- crust, pour in the Pumpkin mixture, put a cover of the same crust over it, and trim it off neatly round the edges, moistening and pressing them together. ' Ornament the top of the pie with the trimmings of the crust rolled out and cut into fancy shapes, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour, or until delicately browned. Serve either hot or cold. (6) Butter a pie-mould and sift Indian meal over it aboiit Jin in thickness. Mix with Iqt. of boiled and strained Pumpkin lqt. of milk, a small quantity of ground rice, and ginger and sugar to taste. Turn the mixture into the pie-dish, and bake. Pumpkin Pudding.—Boil lib. of Pumpkin till soft, then strain and pass it through a colander. Beat Jib. of warmed butter and Jib. of sugar to a cream, then mix it with the Pumpkin puree, also four beaten eggs, 1 teaspoonful of spice, and 1 wineglassful each of brandy, wine, and rose- water. Line a buttered pie-dish with puff paste, pour the Pumpkin mixture in, and bake in a moderate oven. Pumpkin and Rice.—Peel a Pumpkin, cut it into slices, and put them in a stone jar with a lump of butter, one onion, a small piece of celery, two or three cloves, a dust of salt, and some water. Put a lid on the jar and stand it in a slow oven. When cooked, pass the Pumpkin through a sieve. Well wash and boil some rice; when three-parts done, mix the Pumpkin with it, and finish cooking them together. When ready to serve, mix a little cream and pepper with it, and if necessary more salt. Pumpkin Soup.—(1) Peel a thick piece of Pumpkin and cut it into small squares, put them in a stewpan with a lump of salt and sufficient water to cover, and boil. When tender, rub the Pumpkin through a line hair sieve. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour, and stir them over the fire until browned ; then mix in the Pumpkin pulp, add gradually sufficient stock to make the soup, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg ; continue stir- ring over the fire, and boil it for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with J teacupful of cream, strain them, move the soup to the side of the fire, and when it goes off the boil stir them in. Turn the soup into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small crop tons of bread that have been fried in butter. (2) Cut half a small Pumpkin into slices, peel them, and remove the seeds. Cut the slices into small squares, put them iin a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and boil till reduced to a pulp. Mix with the Pumpkin a little salt and 3oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Boil lqt. of milk, mix a little salt and sugar with it, and stir it in with the Pumpkin purde. Put some crofitons of fried bread at the bottom of a tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. (3) Peel the Pumpkin, cut it into convenient-sized pieces, and scoop out all the seeds; turn the pieces into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil them until reduced to a thin pulp. Put 2oz. of butter in a stew- pan with \ teacupful of cream, and mix them over the fire; next pour in the Pumpkin pulp, season to taste with salt and pepper, and dredge in a small quantity of flour. Stir the soup over the fire until boiling again, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently for a-quarter-of an-hour. Mix in quickly the beaten yolk of an egg, turn the soup -into a soup-tureen, and serve.