350 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i:c., referred to, see under their special heads. RUSKS.—The word Rusk is probably a corruption, of the Spanish Roscullor, from Rosea, a screw, or spiral. In the course of time it has assumed a much more general application, as will be seen from the following numerous receipts for their preparation. (1) Make in a large pan a ferment, by dissolving loz. of German yeast in lqt. of warm milk, adding about 41b. of flour, stirring well together, and setting aside to rise. Rub Jib. of fresh butter into 31 lb. of pastry flour, and form it into a bay, or well, adding Jib. of caster sugar. When the ferment has ceased working and begun to drop, pour it into the hollow bay in the flour, and then make of these a good stiff dough; cover over with a cloth, and set aside to swell, or prove, as it is called. When it has proved itself, cut off pieces of about I Jib. each, and shape them into long rolls about the size of a large rolling-pin. Place these on buttered roll tins, flatten down a little with the hands, cover with a cloth, set in a warm place for an hour or longer, and then put into a moderately quick oven until the tops arc brown. Then, when cold, cut into slices, place on baking-sheets, and put into a quick Fig. 415. Rusks. oven until the cut surface is brown. Remove, and turn, to make the other cut surface also brown (see Fig. 415). Let them dry slowly in a screen, or before the fire, and when cold they will be ready for use. (•2) Cut up Jib. of butter rather small, put it into 1J gills of milk, and warm them sufficiently to soften the butter without absolutely melting it. Sift lib. of flour into a pan, pour the milk and butter into it together with a beaten egg, add 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, 1 table-spoonful of rose-water, and lastly 1J wineglassfuls of the best yeast, and stir all together with a knife. Knead the dough well on a paste board sprinkled thickly with flour, and divide it into pieces of an equal size. Knead each of these pieces into a thick round cake, put them on a buttered fin, prick the tops with a fork, and place them in a warm place to rise. When they have risen, well bake them in a moderate oven. (3) Rub 3oz. of butter into lib. of flour till quite smooth ; then mix in J teaspoonful of baking powder and I Joz. of caster sugar. Beat two eggs with a small quantity of milk, and mix them with the dry ingredients, adding more milk if necessary, as the dough should not be too stiff. Divide the dough into equal portions, mould them into balls with floured hands, place them on a baking-sheet, and let them stand for ten minutes; then put them in a brisk oven. When nearly done, draw them out, cut each into two or three slices according to the thickness, lay them out, and put them in the oven again. When of a pale golden brown and very crisp, take them out of the oven. They will keep in well-covered tins for some time. (4) Put i breakfast-cupful of dissolved yeast into a basin, add an equal quantity each of sifted crushed loaf sugar and cream, four eggs, and sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, and set it to rise; then work in a little more flour and 1 tea-cupful of warm butter and lard in equal proportions, and let it rise again. Form the mixture into cakes or rolls, and bake them in a slow oven. Take them out when done, and serve. (5) Chop fine 4oz. of sweet almonds without removing the skins, mix them up in a basin with Coz. of flour and Rusks—continued. loz. of aniseed, and stir in lightly ten eggs beaten up with Jib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar for about twenty minutes. Put the mixture into long narrow moulds, and bake to a light colour. Turn them out when cold, and let them remain for a day. Cut them up into slices, brown them in the oven, anil serve. (6) Put Jib. of almonds with the skins on into a mortar, and crush them ; then turn them into a basin, and mix in gradually an equal weight of graham flour that has been well sifted. Beat twelve eggs and 14oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar for about twenty minutes, stir them into the flour, and add 1 teaspoonful of essence of almonds. Divide the mixture into four parts, put them into long narrow moulds, and bake them in a slack oven until done. Let them get cold, cut them up into slices, brown them in the oven, and serve. Prench Rusks.—Put lib. of light-bread dough into a bowl, warm it in front of the fire, and mix in 2oz. each of crushed loaf sugar and butter and 1 teacupful of milk. Set the dough to rise again, add the yolks of two eggs, a little vanilla or lemon flavouring, and sufficient flour to make the whole into a stiff paste. Knead it well on a board, and set it to rise again for three hours; then knead it well again, form it into biscuits or cakes, let them rise for about an-hour-and-a-lialf, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. Take them out when done, brush them over with vanilla-flavoured syrup, and serve. German Rusks.—(1) Break half-a-dozen fresh eggs into a basin, mix Jib. of caster sugar with them, and whisk them well; then add the grated peel of a lemon and 4oz. of aniseed, and sift in gradually sufficient flour to form a stiff batter, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon. Divide the dough into two equal portions, and roll to a long shape. Butter a baking-tin, lay the rolls on it, leaving about 2in. clear space between each, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, leave them until nearly cold; then cut them into slices, lay them on the tin, and return them to the oven, which should be much cooler than when they first went in. When crisp and yellow, take the Rusks out, and keep them dry in tins. (2) Put 1 Jib. of sifted flour into a basin with 6oz. of of sugar, make a well in the centre, and put in 1J break- fast-cupfuls of warm milk in which 3 table-spoonfuls of yeast have been mixed. Mix the whole lightly, then put in 6oz. of butter that has been cut up into small pieces. Cover the basin with a cloth, and keep it in a warm temperature until the batter has well risen; then beat it thoroughly, and leave it to rise a second time. Cut the dough with a knife into strips lin. thick and ljin. broad. Butter some baking-sheets and lay the Rusks on them, leaving lin. or 2in. clear space between each. Let them rise again, then brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and bake them in a good oven. When cooked, take them out of the oven and leave them until the following day; then Fig. 416. German Rusks. split them open (see Fig. 41G), lay them on baking-tins, the crust side downwards, and put them in a cool oven. \\ hen crisp and yellow take the Rusks out, and keep them packed in biscuit-tins in a dry plaee for use. Italian Rusks.—Sift into a basin 8oz. of flour and 6oz. of suga’-, and mix them up with 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, a little salt, and the yolks of six eggs; then work in vigorously 4oz. of slightly-warmed butter, the whites of the. six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and lastly 2oz. of