THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 213 Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Poaching—continued. adds to the flavour of the eggs. They must be deftly put in, and carefully taken out with a perforated slice, and should be drained on a napkin before serving on toast or spinach. See Eggs. A POELE.—For this French culinary term there is really no Euglish translation, unless it be vaguely termed “white stew.” The process (pooler) is really boiling and stewing meat in unctuous, slightly-acidulated white stock to preserve the whiteness of the meat. As will be seen by the follow- ing receipts, Poele can only be used in rich men’s houses; it is too expensive to be economical, although the same Poele may be used several times ; indeed, it is better the second time of using. (1) Fry together some fat bacon-trimmings, sliced onions, celery roots, carrots, and a small quantity of lean ham. All these may be proportioned by the cook. Add to this a bouquet garni, and moisten with white broth which has not had the fat removed. To every ‘2qts. of broth squeeze in the juice of one lemon, and add half a bottle of white wine. Boil slowly over a moderate fire for at least two hours, and it is then ready to cook poultry or veal. (2) Cut into pieces lib. of bacon-fat or trimmings, 21b. of veal, and fib. of lean ham; put them into a saucepan with lib. of butter, and add four carrots and onions also cut into small pieces. Set the pan on the fire, and when the butter is warm, add a bunch each of basil and thyme, half a laurel-leaf, half a blade of mace, two cloves, and a little pepper. Stir continually for a few minutes, then pour over h pint of white broth and the juice of two lemons, without the pips. Cover the pan closely, put it on a slow fire, and let the mixture cook gently for two hours. Turn it all out into a sieve placed over a basin, press it to extract all the goodness, and it is then ready to use for boiling poultry or game. (3) Cut lib. of bacon fat and the same quantity of beef- suet into good-sized pieces, and put them into a flat saucepan with their combined quantity of veal trimmings also cut up into pieces. Fry them all until the veal is quite white, then pour over all 3 pints of boiling water, and add a bay-leaf, a few sprigs of thyme, an onion stuck with three cloves, a large bunch of parsley, a few green onions or leeks, and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt. Set the pan over the fire, and boil gently until the onion is quite cooked. Drain this Poele through a sieve, and it is then ready for use. FOIVRADE SAUCE.—See Sauces. FOKEBEEiEiIES.—The Poke is a plant that grows in North America (Phytolacca decandra), and is some- times called Cocum, Garget, Pigeon-berry, Pocan, or Poke-weed. It bears dark purple, juicy berries, which are used for colouring wine. The young roots are sometimes eaten as a substitute for asparagus. Pokeberry Syrup.—-Put the required number of berries into a porcelain kettle, cover them with water, and boil gently until the skins crack. Pour the berries and liquor into a sieve placed over a basin, and strain out all the juice. Measure it, pour it into a saucepan with lib. of sugar to each quart of juice, put the pau on the fire, and boil for a few minutes. Let it get cold, pour it into bottles, cork them, and the syrup is then ready for use. POLENTA.—In Italy this word is more often spelled Polena, and signifies a flour prepared from chestnuts. The term has also been applied to a kind of special preparation of Indian cornmeal. The following receipts refer to the latter preparation : Polenta a l’ltalienne.—Boil the required quantity of Polenta in water until well cooked, then strain off the water and mix in with the Polenta 2oz. or 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and a moderate-sized lump of butter; season to taste with salt, pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, and any other flavouring desired, and stir it over the fire until well mixed. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a quick oven. In about a quarter-of- Folenta—continued. an-hour’s time take the mould out of the oven, turn the Polenta on to a hot dish, pour some rich, nicely-flavoured gravy over it, and serve. Polenta and Cheese.—Stir some Polenta into a sufficient quantity of boiling water, add a small quantity of salt, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents boil gently until cooked (it will take from fifteen to twenty minutes). Next turn the Polenta into a basin and leave it until cold. When cold, turn it out of the basin, cut it into slices, and trim them to a uniform shape and size. Butter a pie-dish and put the Polenta in, in layers, with grated cheese, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper strewn over each layer. Scatter plenty of grated cheese over the top, and put the dish in a quick oven. When nicely browned on the top, serve the Polenta while hot in the same dish. Polenta Timbale a la Milanaise.—Put 3 pints of water into a saucepan with a very small quantity of salt, set the pan on the fire, and when the water boils remove the pan to the side of the fire and sprinkle in about lib. of Polenta. Simmer gently until it is quite thick, then add a small piece of butter and stir well. Pour it into a well-buttered timbale-mould, and let it remain for four or five hours to cool. Turn the loaf of Polenta out of the mould by dipping it into a little hot water to loosen it, then wipe the mould inside, smear it over again with butter, and sprinkle in a few sifted breadcrumbs. Replace the loaf in the mould, cut out a round from the flat part, and scoop out some of the inside, leaving about |in. in thickness all over. Cut in slices two blanched sweetbreads, sprinkle-them over with salt and pepper, and put them into a saucepan with, a little warmed butter, and fry until the meat is set; then pour over 1 teacupful of white wine and add twelve mush- rooms cut into quarters, and 8oz. of lean ham or bacon cut into small pieces. Place the lid on the pan and reduce the liquor quickly to a glaze; now pour in a little Spanish sauce with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce mixed with it, and add a couple of dozen small veal quenelles rolled in flour and poached. Pass this mixture into the hollow of the loaf of Polenta, and cover over the top with the piece cut off, fastening it in its place with a little forcemeat or a little liquid Polenta. Spread a little butter over the top, put the mould back into the oven, let it remain for nearly an hour, then turn it out on to a dish. Loosen again by pushing a knife blade between the loaf and mould to ease it at the sides, and it is ready to be served. Garnish with potato croquettes (see Fig. 271). Savoury Polenta.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Polenta in a stewpan with some cold water, and boil it, stirring all the time. W hen cooked, mix with it about 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and loz. of butter; season to taste with salt and pepper, and stand the stewpan at the edge of the fire. Make 1 pint of rich gravy hot and flavour it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce; turn the Polenta on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. Tliis makes a very good accompaniment to pigeons or any kind of small roasted birds. POLISH CAKES.—See Baba and Cakes.