TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 300 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—con tinned. with a little move of the mixture, and cover the mould with a flat of the paste. Put it in a moderate oven, and hake for an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out when done, make a small hole in the top, pour in a few table-spoon- fuls of gravy mixed with a little each of Madeira wine and game-glaze, turn the timbale out on to a dish, and serve. Turban of Rabbits.—Skin and clean three Rabbits, cut off the lillets from the hacks, and divide each of them into halves. Lard six of the fillets and leave six plain; put the larded ones in a saucepan with fried onions, parsley, and a bunch of herbs tied in a bag, pour over stock to half their height, cover the pan, place it on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and braise them until cooked, which will take about half-an-hour. Fill a border mould with mashed potatoes, and turn it out on to a dish. Take out the larded fillets, glaze them, and brown with a salamander; saute the plain fillets, and put them alter- nately round the border. Pour 1 pint of brown sauce into the saute-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of consomme, place the pan on the fire, boil, and skim; then add £ wineglass- ful of sherry, salt and pepper to taste, a little sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and about two dozen Rabbit-forcemeat quenelles made from the legs and trim- mings. When the sauce is ready and the quenelles are cooked, put the latter in the centre of the border, pour the sauce over the plain fillets, and serve. RACAHOUT.—This was originally nothing more nor less than a preparation made from acorns, used by the Arabs as a substitute for chocolate. The French have given the name of Racahout to the following beverage: Mix together 1 breakfast-cupful each of chocolate or cocoa paste, powdered white sugar, and flour of rice, 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, and two vanilla beans powdered and sifted. When thoroughly mixed, bottle and cork tightly. When required for use, blend 1 dessert-spoonful of the mixture with a little cold water, and pour over it, stirring all the time, 1 teacupful of boiling milk. Put it in a saucepan over the fire, let it boil for a few minutes, continue stirring, and serve very hot. RACES.—The cook is sometimes called upon to pre- pare a luncheon to be eaten on the race-course, and to pack suitable viands in hampers in such a manner that they shall not be injured by the heat of the sun or dust of the road to which they are likely to be subjected. The class of goods suitable may be much the same as those provided for an ordinary pic-nic or boating party; they should be wrapped in a plentiful supply of clean cabbage leaves, with clean napkins enfolding them. This precaution of wrapping will serve to preserve them firm, and as cool and fresh as if just removed from the pantry. Meats and poultry should be free from bone, and are very convenient and savoury when made into galantines, rissoles, or boudins. Salads should be chopped ready for mixing, but the dressing can be conveyed in a bottle to be used when required. The bottom, sides, and top of the hamper conveying the food should be well lined with cabbage leaves; and, if possible, the utensils, such as plates, knives, forks, spoons, &c., should be packed in a separate hamper. RACINE SOUP.—See Soups. RACK.—This term is applied to several kitchen fittings, as a bottle-rack, a plate-rack, a bacon-rack. &c. It does not require any special explanation. RACKING.—See Brewing, British Wines, &c. RADISHES [Ft. Radis; Ger. Rettige; Ital. Rava- nelli; Sp- Rabanos).—The term Radish is undoubtedly derived from the Latin radix—a root, that being the edible part of the plant Raphanus sativus. The green tops are sometimes chopped up and mixed with a salad, but are not recommended, the large leaves being far too Radishes—continued. tough. Kettner says: “Not a word against the Radish. Still, it may be lawful to record that it is not of much use in cookery, whatever it may be in eating. May I also venture to say that it is a mistake in salad, an intrusion, and that the only way to eat it is to nibble it by itself while waiting for the feast, or in any convenient interlude. Be it added that there are few combi- nations of colour so beautiful and rich as the red and white of radishes against the green of their leaves. In glass dishes on a dinner-table they are an orna- ment which may vie with the finest flowers.” In the time of the Pharaohs the Radish was extensively culti- vated in Egypt, whence it made its way into Europe, but does Fig. 351. Turnip not appear to have reached this Radish. country till about 1548. The root is fleshy and variable in form, in some varieties fusi- form, as with the long Radish (see Fig. 352), in others round like a small turnip, or semi-globular as the turnip Radish (see Fig. 351), and in colour a red as the China Rose Radish (see Fig. 353), reddish purple, white yellowish, or deep brown. The flesh is white, crisp, and tender, abounding in a peculiar nitrous juice, which is much relished by epicures, although the root itself has no particular nutritive value. The following varieties are mentioned by Nicholson in his “ Dictionary of Gardening,” as having special merits : Black Spanish, an excellent sort for autumn and winter use. China Rose, oblong or somewhat conical, bright rose coloured ; also a line variety for autumn and winter. Early Frame (Wood’s), one of the earliest, shorter than the Long Scarlet. Early Rose Globe, a very early and much esteemed sort, of a fine, clear rosy-scarlet, compact. French Break- fast, a beautiful olive-shaped variety, with white tip, of very mild flavour ; one of the best for early and summer use. Long Scarlet Short Toj>, one of the best and most esteemed varieties, because of its bright colour. Olive Scarlet, an excellent sort, of fine colour. Red Turaip-