THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 239 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. browned on one side, turn them and brown the other side. Serve the scones hot with butter. (2) Mash some boiled Potatoes as smoothly as possible, and work in with them about 1 teacupful of cream, a small quantity of salt, and sufficient flour to stiffen them. Mould them into scones, prick them with a fork to prevent their blistering, and toast them over a clear fire. When cooked, split the scones open, put plenty of butter between them, pile them on a hot dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve very hot. Potato Snow.—(1) Wash some large Potatoes but do not peel them, and boil them in salted water until tender. Drain the Potatoes and peel them, then rub them through a coarse sieve on to a hot dish. Serve at once, or the pretty effect of snow will be lost. (2) Take three or four large cold boiled Potatoes, rub them through a sieve into a saucepan, and add foz. of butter dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of hot cream or milk. Sprinkle over a seasoning of salt and pepper, set the pan over a slow fire, and stir until the mixture is nearly dry. Turn it out lightly on to a dish, piling it up as high as possible, and serve. Potato Souffle.—(1) Put six large Potatoes weighing about lib. into a bowl of water, scrub and wash them clean, and | put them in a quick oven to bake for three-quarters-of- an-hour. Take them out, cut them lengthwise into halves, taking care not to injure the skin, scrape out all the inside pulp, and put it into a hot basin. Mash it until it is quite firm, then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 tea- cupful of milk, the whites of two eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. Fill the half-skins with this mixture, brush them over with white of egg, letting it adhere rather thickly, put them in a moderate oven, and allow them to remain until they are quite brown on the top. Take them out, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Boil two large Potatoes, and when cooked, peel them and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Beat the yolks of four eggs up with the Potatoes, flavour with essence of vanilla, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in lightly with the mixture, turn it into a buttered souffle-mould, and bake for twenty minutes. When cooked, serve the souffle at once in the tin, round which a napkin should be pinned. (3) Put 2oz. of Potato-flour into a saucepan with a little milk, stir them well together, and add gradually 3 breakfast- cupfuls of cream, 2oz. of butter, and a little salt. Bring this slowly to the boil, stirring continually for about eight j minutes; turn the whole into another saucepan, and work 1 in 4oz. of sugar previously nibbed on lemon-rind and two eggs. Stir well for a minute or two, then add the yolks of four eggs, letting the mixture stiffen slightly over the fire. Line two dozen dariole-moulds with fine puff paste, fill them with this mixture, put them into a slow oven, and bake to a light colour. Take them out, dust over with sugar, and serve as required. (4) Peel and wash the required quantity of large Potatoes, cut them into slices about Jin. thick, dry them on a cloth, and put some of them in a frying-basket. Have two stew- pans at the side of the fire, and into eacli place a large lump of lard. When the fat boils, put tire basket of Potatoes into one stewpan, and leave it for two or three minutes ; then take it out, and plunge it into the other. When very highly browned and somewhat swollen, turn the Potatoes on to a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain off some of the fat. Proceed with the others in the same way. Pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Soup.—(1) Boil about one dozen Potatoes in their skins, and when cooked peel them and pass them through a fine sieve. Put a lump of butter about the size of an egg in a saucepan, melt it, put in 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot, and stir over the fire until well browned; then put in the Potatoes with as much well-flavoured stock as will be required for the soup, add the Potatoes, and boil Potatoes—continued. all together. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Mash about 21b. of cold boiled Potatoes, and rub them through a fine wire sieve. Peel and thinly slice three moderate-sized onions, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss them about over the fire until nicely browned. Next put in the prepared Potatoes, stir in smoothly 3 pints of milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir the soup over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until on the point of boiling. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, strew in some finely-powdered dried herbs, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small crohtons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. (3) Wash the Potatoes but do not peel them, boil them, and when sufficiently cooked drain off the water and dry them over the fire; then peel and mb them through a fine sieve. Finely mince two or three moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, J table- spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and a few celery-seeds, and cook them gently. Stir the Potatoes in with the onions, put in a bay-leaf, and stir in slowly sufficient boiling milk and water in equal quantities to bring the soup to a thin cream. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it for two or three minutes. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. (4) Put a piece of lean breast of mutton into a sauce- pan with 5 pints of water, and leave it over the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, remove all the scum, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Peel 21b. of large Potatoes, wash them and cut them into halves length- wise, also peel and slice three or four turnips and onions, and cut a washed head of celery into convenient-sized pieces. Put all the vegetables into the soup, and let it simmer gently for four hours. Remove the mutton and strain the soup through a wire sieve, rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon. Return the soup to the saucepan, boil it up again, and then move it to the side of the fire. Beat the yolk of an egg up with 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it into the soup, which must not boil after this is added. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. (5) Make several incisions in 2Jlb. of shin of beef so as to let out the gravy, put it into a saucepan with Hgall. of water, and add 24lb. of peeled and washed Potatoes cut into small pieces, U pints of green peas, and 2 break- fast-cupfuls of rice. Set the pan at the side of the fire, simmer gently for two-hours-and-a half, and then take out the meat. Pour off all the liquor into a basin, and pass the rice and vegetables through a fine sieve into another sauce- pan, adding salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the soup, and add three or four heads of celery cut into short pieces, set the pan back on the fire, and cook gently for another thirty minutes, by which time the celery should be well cooked. Cover the bottom of a soup tureen with slices of toast cut into small triangular-shaped pieces, pour the soup over, and serve very hot. It will keep for several days, and is just as good warmed up. (6) Peel, wash, and cut into slices lib. of Potatoes; put them into a saucepan with five or six chopped onions, and pour over sufficient stock to cover them. Set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until the onions and Potatoes are thoroughly cooked and quite soft. Add 1 teaspoonful each of curry powder and curry paste, stir them well in, then pass the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, sprinkle in salt to taste, and boil for a few minutes longer, skimming frequently. Remove the pan from the fire, add \ gill of cream, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (7) Put 2A-lb. of trimmings of veal or the scrag end of a neck of mutton into a large saucepan, with plenty of large Potatoes that have been peeled and sliced and half their quantity of onions also peeled and sliced; add a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in 6 pints of water, and season to taste with salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of mace. When boiling, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire,