THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 249 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Prunes—continued. the cleanliness observed in preparation and attracting the attention of buyers. The fruit is divided into nine classes, taking the number of Prunes necessary to the pound as a basis, No. 1 being 90 to 92 to the pound (see Fig. 310), and No. 9, 30 to 31 (see Fig. 310). When ready for exportation the fruit is pressed flat between two cylinders covered with rubber, and then Class 1 Class 9. Fig. 310. Prunes. packed into cases by a special machine called a packer. Many dealers, however, still perform this operation in the primitive manner of foot pressure, which is simple, speedy, and equally satisfactory. Compote of Prunes.—(1) Put lib. of French Plums into a basin of water and wash them, take them out, put them into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and add loz. of loaf sugar and a small piece of cinnamon, and put the pan on the fire. When the water boils, remove the pan to the side and simmer the contents gently for forty-five minutes. Take out the Prunes when done, place them on a sieve to drain, and then put them into a compote-dish. Add2oz. more sugar to the liquor when it has been strained, put hack into the saucepan, and reduce it to syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups), and when cold pour it over the Prunes and serve. (2) Put 1 lb. of Prunes into a sugar-boiler with 1 teacupful of water, half the quantity of white wine, and loz. of crushed loaf sugar. Set the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten minutes; take out the Plums, drain them on a sieve, arrange them in a compote-dish, pour over the strained liquor when it is cold, and serve. Gateau of Prunes.—-Remove the stones from lib. of Prunes, crack them, blanch the kernels, which put with the Prunes into a lined stewpan, add 1 pint, of water, sugar to taste, and the strained juice and grated rind of a small lemon. Stew the Prunes gently at the side of the fire until soft, then put in foz. of gelatine that has been dissolved in a small quantity of water. Colour the mixture with a few drops of cochineal, turn it into a plain mould that has Fig. 311. Gateau of Prunes. been rinsed out with cold water, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould into a dish, and pour whipped cream round it (see Fig. 311). Prunes—continued. Preserved Prunes.—Wash 21b. or 31b. of Prunes, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and add the grated rind of a lemon. Set the pan on a slow fire, and cook gently until the fruit is quite tender; then take it out, and pass it through a sieve. For each pound of pulp use fib. of sugar ; put the sugar into a preserving-pan with a little water, and when it is melted add the pulp. Boil for fifteen minutes longer, skimming frequently. Pour the preserve into jars or pots, and it is ready for use. Prunes a la Russe.—Put lib. of Prunes in a pan with a small quantity of water, sugar to taste, and stew them gently. When tender take the stones out of the Prunes, crack them, and put the kernels in with the fruit. Decorate the sides of a cylinder-mould with blanched and split sweet almonds, using a small quantity of liquid jelly to make them adhere, then carefully pour in layers of Prunes and of jelly. Pack the mould in ice and leave it for a few hours until the Prunes and jelly are quite cold and firm. Sweeten some cream to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with a few drops of essence of almonds, anil then whip to a stiff froth. When the jelly is ready, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn out the contents on to a glass dish ; fill the hollow with the cream, and serve. Prunes in Brandy.—Procure a wide-mouthed bottle, and pack the Plums in it in layers, strewing plenty of caster sugar over each layer; fill up with the best brandy, cork, and stand the bottle in the corner of a warm stove. In a few hours’ time the bottle may be removed, and shortly after the Plums will be ready for use, but they improve by keeping. Prune Cake.—Put 11b. of Prunes in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, boil them gently until soft, then strain them, stone, and cut into small pieces. Mix in a basin Jib. of flour, Jib. of ground rice, and 1 teaspoonful of baking- Fig. 312. Prune Cake. powder; rub in 2oz. of butter, and when quite smooth mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of moist sugar and the Prunes. Well beat one egg, add to it \ pint of milk, then thoroughly mix it with the above ingredients. Butter and flour a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for an hour or an-hour-and-a-half. Turn the cake out of the mould on to a glass dish, and leave till cold. Garnish round the dish with candied plums and apricots, or half peaches (see Fig. 312). Prune Brink.—Prick eight or nine Prunes, put them into a stewpan with 1J pints of water, and stew gently at the side of the fire until tender. At the end of that time strain the liquor through a fine wire sieve, pressing the Prunes with a wooden spoon to extract as much of the juice as possible. Sweeten the beverage to taste, and leave until cold, when it will be ready for serving. Prune Jelly.—Wash lib. of Prunes in a little warm water, then put them in a stewpan with sugar to taste, a small piece of lemon-peel, half a stick of cinnamon, and water to cover, and stew till tender. When cooked, remove the stones and pass the Prunes through a fine hair sieve; crack the stones, and mix the kernels with the Prunes. Soak loz. of gelatine in a small quantity of water, and mix it with the Prunes, adding 2 wineglassfuls of port wine.