406 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sausages—continued. dipped into egg, and then rolled in Hour. In frying them very little grease, if any, is required, as there is sufficient of their own. Persian Sausages.—Trim the meat of a loin of mutton, chop it, and mix with it an equal quantity of fat hacon also chopped; season the mixture, divide it into small equal-sized portions, roll them round an iron skewer, giving the Sausages a round elongated shape. Roast these Sausages Neapolitan fashion, with coal on both sides, and turning the skewer with the hand. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, garnish with slices of celery, and serve. Royal Sausages.—Take all the meat off a partridge and also from a capon or pullet, and finely mince it, together with a slice of leg of veal and some gammon and other bacon; mince also very finely and mix with the meat some mushrooms, truffles, a little garlic, some chives, and parsley. Mix all together very thoroughly and season with salt, pepper, and ground spices, then mix into it the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs and a little cream. Form this mixture into short Sausages about 3in. in thickness. Beat some thin fillets of veal with a rolling- pin, wrap a slice round each Sausage, and put them in a stewpan lined with thin beef-steaks and rashers of bacon ; lay beef steaks and bacon over them, close the saucepan, and place it over a moderate fire with hot cinders on the lid and let it remain for twelve hours, then remove it from the fire. When the Sausages are quite cold take them carefully out of the pan, remove the veal and fat, and cut the Sausages neatly in slices; arrange them on a dish, and serve cold garnished with parsley. Smoked Sausages.—Mix with 101b. of finely-chopped beef 1 teacupful of salt, and 1 pinch of saltpetre. Add 41b. of chopped pork and 21b. of chopped fat bacon; season the meat with 8oz. of cumin, 4oz. of pepper, 2oz of pimento, all of which must be ground. Peel and chop a few cloves of garlic, mix them with the above ingredients, and chop all together for a few minutes longer, adding gradually at the same time 1 pint of water. Fill some pig’s intestines with the mixture, tie them into small Sausages, and smoke them for a few hours. Boil the Sausages for five minutes, then drain and let them cool. Swiss Sausages.—Remove all the gristle and skin from the required quantity of pork, and chop it finely; put the mince into a large howl, and season it with moderate quantities of finely-chopped parsley, thyme, burnet, mint, marjoram, and garlic, also small quantities of powdered cloves, salt, and pepper. Beat the whole with a wooden spoon until the seasonings are well worked into the meat, and for every pound of meat add 2 wineglassfuls of white wine. Soak some well-cleaned skins in water with plenty of lemon-juice in it, then take them out one at a time, dry them on a cloth, and stuff them with the meat. Tie it into ordinary Sausage lengths and hang them up in a cool dry place for twelve or fourteen days, or until required to cook. They are best boiled. Westphalian Sausages.—Use uncooked pork, the fat and lean of which should be as nearly as possible in equal quantities; cut it up into small squares, and for every pound of meat season with |oz. of salt and a small quantity of freshly-ground black pepper. Thoroughly clean some pig’s skins, and soak them in cold salted water for one or two horns. Fill the skins with the Sausage mixture, and hang them up in smoke. In a week’s time the Sausages will be sufficiently smoked, and may be prepared for serving when liked. If the Sausages are to be eaten fresh, they would be improved by hanging another week in a cool and very dry place. White Sausages.—(1) Procure an equal quantity of fat and lean pork, and chop it finely. Mince one-third of the quantity of veal, then mix it with the pork, and mince them both together until like a pulp, moistening occasion- ally with a little water and seasoning with salt and white pepper. Stuff the mixture into prepared skins, secure them at the ends, and hang them in a cool dry place till wanted. Sausages—continued. (2) Mince almost to a paste 31b. of lean pork that has been cut off the ribs. Cut lib. of cold boiled fat bacon into rather thick slices, and chop them into small squares. Soak 4lb. of crumb of bread in milk, then mix it with the fat bacon and minced pork. Season the mixture with the grated peel of one lemon, salt and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the whole until thoroughly mixed, then stuff it into skins that have been well cleansed and secure them at the ends. Put the Sausages into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for half-an-hour. When cooked, drain the Sausages; leave them until cold before serving them. Numerous other receipts for preparing special kinds of sausages, such as Beef, Pork, &c., will be found under those headings. The following receipts give a very useful variety of dishes : Baked Sausages.—(1) Place twelve Sausages on a baking- dish, prick them a little, and separate them by twelve slices of bread cut the same length as the Sausages. Bake in the oven for twelve minutes, baste them occasionally with their own liquor, and serve on a metal dish with \ pint of hot Madeira sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Prick twelve lean Sausages with a fork, put them in a tin baking-dish, and cook them for six minutes in the oven. Add two raw eggs to H pints of mashed pota- toes with 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, mix well together, and lay it on a baking- dish. Place the Sausages on the top, put them in the oven, and cook for six minutes. When finished, take them out and serve on a dish with 4 gill of melted lialf-glaze poured over. Boiled Sausages and Artichokes.—Wash, peel, and boil l|lb. of Jerusalem artichokes. Put fib. of Sausages, into boiling water and boil them for aquarter-of-an-hour. Put 14oz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire ; as soon as it is melted, add and mix in 3 dessert spoonfuls of flour, then mix in by degrees f pint of milk, a small quantity of salt, and a small onion chopped fine; continue stirring till it boils, and boil for ten minutes. When the Sausages are cooked, lay them on a hot dish, put the artichokes round, pour the sauce over, and serve hot. Broiled Sausages with Truffles.—Peel seven truffles and cut them into small squares. Finely chop ^lb. each of pork and fat bacon; chop the trimmings of the truffles, and mix them in a basin with the pork, bacon, and truffles. Steep in warm salted water some sheep’s intestines, wipe them, and fill with the above mixture; tie them into 2in. lengths, and hang in a cool place for twelve hours. At the end of that time, cut the Sausages apart, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning them frequently; care should be taken that the Sausages are well cooked. Put them on a dish, garnish with fried parlsey, and serve. Devilled Sausages.—Steam some pork Sausages for an hour, then leave them until cold. Cut some pieces of bread about 2in. in length and 1tin. wide, and fry them a pale golden colour in butter; drain them, and mask them with a thin coating of curry paste. Skin the Sausages and cut them lengthwise into thin slices, then cut each slice into halves, place half a slice of Sausage on each piece of bread, and spread a little mango chutney over them. Place them in the oven with a cover over, and leave until hot. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the Sausages on it, garnish them with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve. Fried Breaded Sausages.—Wipe the required number of Sausages dry, dip them into beaten egg-and-breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-basket, and plunge it into boiling fat. Cook for ten minutes, and serve on a hot dish, with a garnish of toasted bread and parsley. Fried Sausages and Chestnuts.—Roast fifty Spanish chestnuts and remove their husks and inner skins. Take some Sausage-meat, nicely seasoned, but without any sage in the seasoning, make it into seven round flat cakes, fry them slowly in a little butter till they are a nice brown, „ then take them from the frying-pan, and pour into a