THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 307 X Raspberries—continued. Raspberry Cake.—(1) Large.—Remove the tops from Iqt. of Raspberries, put them into a stewpan with 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and place them over a slow fire. Shake the fruit occasionally, and when it is cooked lift it out of the stewpan with a slice and let the syrup con- tinue boiling. Blanch and pound 2oz. of almonds, mixing a little white of egg with them to prevent oiling. Warm 3oz. of butter, beat it, and when creamy mix with it the almonds, 14 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 2 table spoonfuls of grated breadcrumb, and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and when the above ingredients are thoroughly mixed stir them in lightly. Butter a shallow tart-tin, line it with plain short paste, put in the fruit, pour over the syrup, and lastly pour over the beaten egg. Bake the cake in a brisk oven. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Small.—Take some Raspberries that are not quite ripe, free them from the hulls, and put them in the stove to dry. When they are dry weigh 4lb. of them, place in a mortar, and pound. Clarify 1 Jib. of powdered white sugar, boil it to the crack (see SUGAR boil- ing), and stir in the 41b. of Raspberries together with 1 dessert-spoonful of white of egg beaten up with a little cream; continue to stir and give it a boil. Pour it into shallow paper cases and dry in the stove. Raspberry Caramels.—Put 61b. of sugar and 4gall. of cream into a sugar-boiler, stir well, and add 41b. of glucose ; boil for about fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. Add 1 olb. of butter and boil it to the crack. Add 2 table- spoonfuls of Raspberry extract, stir well, turn the mixture out on to a well-oiled plate, and let it cool. Mark it in the required shapes, break it when cold, put the pieces away into boxes or bottles, and let them remain in a dry place until wanted. Raspberry Charlotte.—Take 21b. of ripe Raspberries, remove the hulls, see that there are no insects in the hollows of the berries, and have ready also lib. of dry breadcrumbs. Then butter a pudding-dish, and cover the bottom with a fayer of dry breadcrumbs; on top of this put a layer of Raspberries, sprinkle plenty of sugar over them, add another layer of breadcrumbs, then a layer of Rasp- berries sprinkled with sugar, and so on till the dish is filled; let the last layer be breadcrumbs. On this last layer put bits of butter. Lay a plate or cover over it and ba,ke for half-an-hour. Remove the plate or cover a few minutes before serving and let it brown. Serve cream with, it. Raspberry Cheese.—Pick carefully over the Raspberries, put them in a mortar with some sugar, and pound them well. When well mashed pass the puree through a fine hair sieve into a basin, mix a small quantity of melted Fig. 361. Raspberry Cheese. isinglass with it, and beat it well with a wooden spoon. Whisk 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff froth, then stir it in with the Raspberry puree. Add more sugar if not sufficiently sweetened, and whip the mixture over ice till the isinglass is well incorporated with the other ingredients. Turn the Raspberries—continued. cheese into a plain mould, close it, and pack it in pounded salt and ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cheese out on to a fancy dish, and garnish round with macaroons or ratafias (see Fig. 361). Attend particularly to stirring the cheese when it is over the ice to ensure its being well mixed. Raspberry-and-Cherry Jam.—Put Sib. of Raspberries into a preserving-pan, with 4lb. of stoned cherries, and boil for fifteen minutes. Skim off the scum, if any, and add 91b. of sugar. Boil again for about an hour or until the jam hangs on the spoon, skim it again, pour it into pots, cover them when cold, and they will be ready for use. Raspberry Compote.—Put lib. of Raspberries and a little lemon-juice into a saucepan, pour over sufficient weak syrup to moisten, simmer gently at the side of the fire for two or three minutes, take out the Raspberries, drain, put them on a dish, boil up the syrup to the thread degree (see Sugar boiling), pour it over, and serve. Raspberry Cordial.—(1) Allow 41b. of powdered white sugar to each pound of Raspberries, remove the hulls, put them into a pan, mash them a little, and strew the sugar over; cover the pan and let them stand all night. Next day put them into a thin linen cloth and squeeze and wring the juice from them. To every pint of juice add lqt. of double rectified whisky. Mix the juice and whisky well together and bottle it. Cork the bottles well. It will be fit for use in a few days. (2) Add to lqt. of deodorized alcohol lqt. of Raspberry - juice, let it stand for a week, and then add 2 tea- spoonfuls of vanilla and lqt. of syrup made of loaf sugar. Strain it then and bottle it. (3) This is prepared by adding 24gall. of Raspberry- juice and lgall. of syrup, made from white sugar, to each 4gall. of spirits. Raspberry Cream.—(1) Rub lqt. of Raspberries through a fine sieve to remove the seeds; mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and sufficient caster sugar to sweeten. Put all into a stone or earthenware bowl, whisk well, and as the froth rises skim it off with a spoon and put it on a hair sieve. Put the cream that is left in the bowl in a deep glass dish, pile the whipped cream on top, mounting it up as high as possible, decorate with a flower in the centre, and serve. (2) Dissolve 4oz. of isinglass in 4 breakfast-cupful of milk, and sweeten it with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Put about half a small jar of Raspberry jam on a fine hair sieve, pour over it 1 pint of thick cream, and rub it through the sieve. Mix the isinglass and milk with the cream, and stir it over the fire until thick and smooth. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the cream into it, and set it away in a cool place. When quite cold and set, turn the cream out of the mould on to a fancy or glass dish, and serve. (3) Put 2oz. of gelatine into a lined saucepan with 3 pints of milk, and boil until it is dissolved. Strain the milk through a fine hair sieve, and leave until cold ; then mix with it 1| breakfast-cupfuls of juice that has been extracted from ripe Raspberries and strained. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, and mix well. Beat the mixture with an egg-whip until cold, then turn it into a mould, close it tightly, and bury it in pounded ice and salt. When the cream is well frozen dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, turn its contents on to a fancy dish, and serve. (4) Dissolve foz. of gelatine in rather less than | pint of water. Add to f pint of cream 41b. of Raspberry jelly, the strained juice of a lemon, a sweetening of powdered white sugar, and a very small quantity of cochineal; stir it well, and then add and stir in the dissolved gelatine. As soon as it begins to set pour it into an earthenware mould well wetted inside with cold water. (5) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Raspberries into a basin with 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar and two or three drops of cochineal, bruise them well, and rub the whole through a fine sieve into a basin packed in ice. Add 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of well-whipped cream and 4oz. of gelatine, dissolved in a little water; stir well, turn the whole into a mould, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.