342 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Roasting—continued. the albuminous juice which runs over its surface. This is done by setting the joint as close to the fire as possible, and then removing it to a more suitable distance for cooking. Alexis Soyer advises that, as an invariable rule, all dark meats, such as beef and mutton, should be put down to a sharp tire for at least fifteen minutes, until the outside has acquired a coating of osmazome, or condensed gravy, and then removed back, and allowed to cook gently. Lamb, veal, and pork, if young and tender, should be done at a moderate fire. Veal should even be covered with paper. "V ery rich meat, if covered with paper, does not require basting. Fowls, &c., should be placed close to the tire to set the skin, and in about ten minutes rubbed over with a small piece of butter pressed in a spoon. Meats, whilst Fig. 406. Basting-Tray (Adams and Son). roasting, should be dredged with flour, just at the time when the gravy begins to appear; the flour absorbs it, and forms a coating which prevents any more coming out. Hares and small game should be treated in the same manner. The time required for roasting different meats under ordinary circumstances as to the power of the fire and the distance between it and the joint, may be esti- mated as for beef, mutton, and veal—a-quarter-of-an-hour per pound; lamb, poultry, and small game, twelve to fourteen minutes per pound. Pork takes from a-quarter- of-an-hour to twenty minutes per pound, and it may be said that the flesh of old animals requires somewhat longer than the flesh of young ones. Something also depends on the quality of the joint; inferior, tough, and bony meat, requiring much cooking. Cooley informs us that roasting is not an economical way of cooking pieces of meat abounding in bone or tendinous matter, since the nutritious portion of these is either destroyed or rendered insoluble by the heat employed. Thus, the raw bones from a joint are capable of affording a rich and excellent basin of soup, highly nutritious, whilst the bones from a corresponding joint which has been roasted are nearly worthless when so treated. The same applies with even greater force to the gristly and tendinous portions of meat. A dry heat either destroys them or converts them into a horny substance unfit for food, whilst by boiling they are transformed into a highly succulent and nutritious article of food, besides affording excellent soup or jelly. Hence the policy of boning and trimming meat before roasting or baking it, or, at all events, of removing the bony and tendinous portions which would be most exposed to the action of the fire. The first consideration is to have a well and evenly- lighted fire, which should never be allowed to get low, and should be replenished with fuel in such a way as not to deaden it. Gouffe advises that a small quantity of broth should be put in the dripping-pan for the purpose of basting. Large joints, poultry, and game, should be basted five or six times during cooking; partridges and small game three times. The following table of times required for roasting is, as previously described, subject to slight variations, according to conditions and circumstances: A piece of Beef weighing from 15lb. to 201b. ... 4 hours A piece of Beef ,, ,, 7H>. to Sib. ... 2 hours Neck or Loin of Veal,, ,, 31b. to 41b. ... H hours Roasting—continued. Fillet of Veal weighing from lOlh. Leg of Mutton ' „ „ Tib. to 101b Shoulder of Mutton ,, ,, 01b. Leg of Lamb „ ,, Gib. Fore Quarter of Lamb,, ,, 7 lb. or Sib. Leg of Pork ,, ,, Tib. or Sib. Neck or Loin of Pork, about 311 Loin of Pork ,, Oil Haunch of Venison ... Hare ... Hare’s Back ... Turkey, about Sib. to 91b. Small Turkey, about 3Mb U to Goose Capon Fowl Pool aide D nek Duckling Pheasant Partridge Woodcock Wild Duck Widgeon Pigeon Quail Larks ... Oil 41b. 31b. I hours ! hours H hours 1 i hours 2" 3 1 2 hours hours hour hours to 5 hours 1J hours Q hours 2 hours | hour 1J2 hours 50 to 00 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 40 minutes 35 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 15 to 20 minutes 0 to 10 minutes To the above list may be added the following remarks given by Gouffe iu his “ Royal Cookery Book “ There are different natures and qualities of meat which cook more or less rapidly. It will, therefore, always be necessary to ascertain whether a joint is done before taking it off the spit. The easiest way to find this out is, in the case of meat, to press the fleshiest parts with the finger; in the case of poultry and game, the flesh of the leg should be tested. If the cooking is perfect, both will give way to the finger; if not, there will be a certain degree of resistance.” See also Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Frying, &c. ROBERT.—Some doubt exists as to the origin of this term, but Kettner informs us that it is a corruption of the word Roebrewet, which signifies sauce for a roe. It is of very ancient date, being mentioned by a French cook, named Taillevent, in the middle of the thirteenth century. It is now almost exclusively used for pork and goose. See Sauces. ROBINS.—These birds are not often found in the vicinity of the kitchen, excepting as winter beggars. They are not sufficiently numerous to make a dish, although we are informed by Mr. Hayward that the Robin Redbreast is remarkable for a delicate bitter flavour, for which reason it is recommended that they should be cooked and eaten like larks. ROCAMBOLE.—A plant of the allium tribe (A. Scorodoprasum), closely allied to the garlic (see Fig. 407, on next page). It is a native of Denmark, and used for flavouring, its aroma being considered more delicate than either that of the garlic or the shallot. It is not much grown in this country. ROCHELLE BRANDT.—A class of brandy that stands as number twelve on the French list. It is not often met with in the English markets. ROCK.—This is the popular name given to a sweet- meat made of sugar boiled to a candy; it is flavoured with almond, cocoa-nut, &c., and will be found described under their special headings. ROCK CAKES.—See Cakes. ROCKFISH.—A famous Californian food fish (Sebastichthys ruber) noted for its beautiful red colour. It infests the rocks along the coasts, and as it assumes