215 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Hauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. POPE.—See Bishop. POP-OVERS—These are favourite American cakes, which are served hot, and resemble the French small souffles. The following receipt for making them is supplied by an American confectioner : Mix to a smooth batter 2 breakfast cupfuls each of flour and milk, the yolks of two eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Butter twelve small earthenware jars, and place them in a pan in the oven to heat; see that the oven is hot. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, mix them quickly with the other ingredients, put the batter at once into the hot buttered jars, set them in the oven, and bake the Pop-overs until they rise well and are brown at the sides where they part from the jars. Turn them out Fig. 273 Pop-overs. of the cups, and serve them as soon as they are baked on a hot dish covered by a napkin (see Fig. 273). POPPIES.—However beautiful the flowers of the plant (Papaver somniferum) may be, and however ser- viceable for table decoration, they are not suitable for culinary purposes, because of their somniferous influence, due to the opium contained in the juice. Medicinal drops are sometimes made of them as follows : Poppy Drops.—Put some Poppy flowers (wild ones for pre- ference) in a basin with boiling water to cover them, to extract the essence. Put some sugar in a sugar-boiler, boil it to the ball degree (see SUGAR BOILING), add the essence of Poppies, and boil the syrup mixture to the crack. Pour it all out on to a well-oiled tin sheet, and put it in a warm place so that it will keep pliable. Pull off a small piece, roll it out to about the thickness of a clay-pipe stem, cut this up into equal-sized small pieces, roll them into balls, and put them on a board well sprinkled with caster sugar, covering them with it. Put them on a sieve, roll them about a little, then put them into boxes, and they are ready for use. FORGEY.—See Angel-fish. PORK (Fr. Pore ; Ger. Schwein-fleisch ; Ital. Carn di- porco; Sp. Carne de puerco).—The flesh of the pig was first called Pork in this country by the Norman Conquerors. It is derived from the Latin porous—a pig. Cooley tells us that the value of Pork as an article of diet is universally acknowledged ; that from the young and well-fed animal is savoury, easy of digestion, and wholesome. When pickled or salted, it is much less diges- tible. Walsh, in his “Domestic Economy,” says that pigs are sold by the ordinary butcher, as well as by the pork-butcher, at such a variety of ages that their flesh can- not so accurately be identified by the age as can that of many of the animals used as food. It sometimes makes its appearance on the table when five or six weeks old, and is then called a sucking-pig; when from three to eight months’ old, it comes into the markets as Pork. If allowed to exceed this age it is killed for bacon-meat or hams. Both Pork and bacon-meat vary greatly in quality ; breed and feeding being the chief elements in the dif- ference. Dairy-fed Pork holds the highest place in public estimation, which it richly deserves, when the pig is of a good sort; but this does not always happen. Farmers’ pigs, though dairy-fed, are not always confined to that Fork—continued. diet, for they are made the scavengers of the farm, and are allowed to eat any filth or carrion that happens to be within their reach. Pigs fed like those of the butchers are hard and devoid of fat, and unless finished with meal and A, Chine; B, Head ; C, Ham ; D, Hand ; E, Side. potatoes are not considered of superior quality. Thousands of pigs are fattened every year upon the refuse of the mill and starch-factories, and these are reckoned prime. The size best adapted for bacon-meat ranges from ten to fifteen score, with a moderate thickness of fat. For the agricultural labourer bacon can scarcely be too fat, because he uses it as a relish to his bread and potatoes; this is not, however, the case in the housekeeping of the middle class, and for them a medium degree is the most economical and agreeable to the palate. The pig is slaughtered by cutting the throat, but in some parts of the country it is pole-axed first; the latter mode is not often adopted, as it spoils the appearance of the face. After death the pig is cut up into parts, which vary somewhat in different parts of the country, and always with regard to its future use. For bacon the pig is cut up as shown in Fig. 274 ; for Pork the general plan is as follows (see Fig. 275) : A, the leg ; B, the loin ; C, the neck or fore-loin; D, the belly or spring; E, the hand; F, the head. Besides these parts there are the internal organs, such as the heart, liver, kidneys, &c., and the feet or pettitoes. When cutting up for curing, there are some pieces or trimmings removed, which are cooked fresh or pickled, and termed generally pig-meat, including the chine or griskin, spare-rib, and the blade bone. When the pig is not too large and coarse, and provided it has not been fed too long upon bean flour or other heating food, Fig. 275. Plan of Cutting up Pig for Pork. A, Leg; B, Loin ; C, Neck or Fore-loin; D, Belly or Spring; E, Hand ; F, Head. the meat is very well flavoured. On account of its cheap- ness it is extensively used by the wholesale sausage and Pork-pie manufacturers. See Bacon, Boar, Brawn, Ham, &c., and Pig (for Pig’s Cheek, Pig’s Ears, Pig’s Head, Sucking-Pig, &c). When buying Pork, it must be remembered that the flesh varies greatly in different animals. The flesh should be rather pale than red, and yield to pressure, springing back readily; the rind should be thin and delicate. Measly pork is known by the kernels that appear in the fat, and the flesh yields little specks of matter when pressed. The disease called Trichinosis does not often affect well-fed Pork. Baked Pork.—If the skin is left on the Pork, as it is sometimes, scrape it with a dull knife, wipe it thoroughly