387 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces—continued. Brown Sauce.—(1) Peel and cut eight large onions into halves, and place them at the bottom of a stewpan with Jib. of butter. Put lib. of slices of lean ham on the top of them, then 81b. of leg of beef and veal, also cut in slices. Put the stewpan over a quick fire and fry the contents, keeping the onions at the bottom. When the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a light brown glaze, prick the meat with a fork, remove the stewpan from the fire, deaden it with ashes, place the stewpan again over it, and let it stand half-an-hour longer, stirring twice during that time. Pour into the stewpan lOqts. of water, add three turnips, two carrots, two blades of mace, and a large bunch of sweet herbs. When boiling move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, season the contents with salt and pepper, and keep sim- mering for two hours, skimming off the fat and adding a little cold water occasionally to keep it the same quantity. Skim the liquor, thicken it with roux diluted with hot water, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. It is then ready for use. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan and when it is melted put in two mushrooms, one onion, and half a carrot, all chopped; fry them till nicely browned, then add 1 table-spoonful of flour and fry that also. Pour in h pint of stock, and colour it with 1 teaspoonful of caramel. Boil the Sauce gently for ten minutes, season with salt and pepper, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and use as required. (3) Fry 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion in 2 table- spoonfuls of butter for live minutes, then add 2 large table- spoonfuls of flour and stir well. Pour in gradually 1 pint of hot stock and stir it quickly as it thickens; season the Sauce until salt and pepper and any other flavour that is liked, and let it simmer gently for five minutes. When strained, the Sauce is ready for use. The onion may be omitted if desired. Cardinal Sauce.—(1) Prepare 1 pint of melted butter or butter Sauce, and colour it with pounded lobster coral; when that cannot be procured, pound together the red part of a lobster and some shrimps. Pass them through a fine hair sieve, and season them with salt, cayenne pepper, and the strained juice of a lemon. Stir the fish mixture into the Sauce while boiling, and when well mixed it will be ready for serving. (2) Mix loz. of flour with 4 pint of fish stock, then stir into it the coral from a lobster that has been pounded with loz. of butter. When quite smooth pour the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till thick and boiling. Add to the Sauce 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne pepper; then serve the Sauce. (3) Prepare 1 pint of German Sauce, and when on the point of boiling mix with it sufficient crayfish butter to colour it; then serve. (4) Reduce some brown Sauce with a few table-spoon- fuls of consomme or chicken broth. When the Sauce is sufficiently reduced take some crayfish butter and throw it in. Work it well with a lump of fresh butter to prevent the other butter from turning to oil. Give it a good seasoning, and add .ne juice of a lemon. The spawn of a lobster is better than the crayfish butter, gives less trouble, and has a finer flavour. Carrier Sauce.—Finely chop six shallots, put them into a small saucepan with \ pint of brown gravy and 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Boil the shallots, turn the Sauce into a sauceboat, or pour it over a joint of roasted mutton, and serve. Chateaubriand Sauce.—(1) Put a small lump of meat glaze into a saucepan with \ teacupful of white wine, and stir it over the lire till melted, then pour in \ pint of Spanish Sauce and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Thicken the Sauce with maitre-d’hotel Sauce, and serve it. (2) Put a small quantity of glaze into a saucepan with 4 pint of white wine, and stir it over the fire until the glaze has dissolved. Thicken the wine with flour and butter, season it with a little pepper and salt, and let it simmer gently for about half-an-hour. Beat in a little warmed butter, some chervil and parsley, both chopped, add Sauces—continued. a little lemon-juice and grated nutmeg, stir it into the Sauce, and serve. Claremont Sauce.—Chop some onions, put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of oil, and fry them until cooked; add some light veal gravy and boil it, skimming off the oil as it rises. The Sauce is then ready for serving. Colbert Sauce.—Put 2oz. of meat glaze into a saucepan over the fire with 4 teacupful of stock; stir until it has melted, then pour in 1 pint of the same stock, and stir in gradually loz. of butter broken into small pieces. When on the point of boiling, strain the Sauce, squeeze in the juice of a large lemon, add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. Corinthian Sauce.—Put into a stewpan three chopped gherkins, 1 table-spoonful eacli of chopped shallots, red- eurrant jelly, capers, and chopped parsley, 1 dessert-spoon- ful of sugar, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, salt, and cayenne, and 4 teacupful of vinegar. Stir the above in- gredients over the fire and boil them for five minutes, then pour in with them 24 teacupfuls of tomato Sauce, 14 teacupfuls of white broth, and the same quantity of brown Sauce. Boil the Sauce, then skim and serve it. Crapaudine Sauce.—Pour 4 pint of light piquant Sauce into a saucepan on the fire, add four chopped mushrooms, and 1 teaspoonful of mustard diluted in 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Boil for five minutes, and serve. Czarina Sauce.—Mix in a saucepan with f pint of rich brown Sauce, a piece of partially-boiled lemon-peel and a few gherkins and sultanas, all chopped. Dust in a little pepper, and simmer till the gherkins, &c., are cooked. Mix in a lump of butter, and when it has dissolved serve the Sauce. Demi-Provenpale Sauce.—Put 24 teacupfuls of half-glaze into a saucepan until 2 teacupfuls of broth, and boil them quickly till reduced to two-thirds. Skim the Sauce, put 1 teaspoonful of scraped garlic and 1 saltspoonful of sugar into it, boil it for two or three minutes longer, and the Sauce is then ready for serving. Devil Sauce (a la Diable).—(1) Put three peeled and chopped shallots into a saucepan, add one clove of garlic, one bay- leaf, a bunch of parsley and thyme, 4 teaspoonful each of cayenne and coarsely-crushed white pepper, 14 pints of Spanish Sauce, and 4 pint of veal broth. When boiling, move the Sauce to the side of the fire and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Skim the Sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (2) Put six washed and chopped shallots into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of chilli vinegar, two bay-leaves, a clove of garlic, and loz. of meat glaze. Boil the above articles for ten minutes, then mix in with them 1 teacupful of tomato Sauce, 24 teacupfuls of gravy, and a little sugar. When boiling let the Sauce simmer gently for ten minutes, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of butter and when it has dissolved the Sauce is ready for serving. (3) Put into a basin 1 teacupful of gravy, and add to it 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar, chutney, ami mushroom ketchup, 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed mustard, and a little salt. Stir the above mixture till well mixed, then add Jib. of butter. This Sauce is used for devilling cold meats. The prepared meat should be put into the Sauce and stewed with it. Diplomatic Sauce.—Put § pint of bechamel cream Sauce in a saucepan, mix with it a little of the liquor in which some crayfish have been boiled, and boil it quickly for a few minutes; then serve. Duchess Sauce (a la Duchesse).—Cut up into small dice |oz. of cooked ham and two truffles; place these in a saucepan over a brisk fire, with 4 wineglassful of white wine, and let the liquor reduce for three minutes. Add 1 gill of good tomato sauce, boil for one minute with 1 table- spoonful of meat glaze, and add 4 pint of German sauce. Toss well while heating, but do not allow it to boil again, and serve very hot. Dutch or Holland Sauce (d la Hollandaise).—(1) Put J pint of vinegar into a saucepan with a small piece of For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. O p o V