280 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Quails—continued. a pie-dish with puff paste, cut two sweetbreads into thin slices, and fill the dish with alternate layers of sweetbreads, forcemeat, and Quails, putting in here and there a few mushrooms or truffles. Place a few small pieces of butter on the top, dust over lightly with salt, pepper, and spices, and cover with puff paste. Bake the pie in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. Quail Salad.—These birds make a very delicious salad ; they must be first cooked and left till cold, then the tfesli should be cut off the bones, trimmed into small nice-shaped pieces, and put in a plain salad dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with salt and pepper, and left for an hour or so. Two Quails are sufficient for a good-sized salad. Thoroughly wash the hearts of two cabbage-lettuces, pull them to pieces, and put them in a salad-bowl. Drain the pieces of birds, put them in with the lettuces, and pour over a mayonnaise dressing. Garnish them with chopped hard-boiled eggs and rings of lemon-peel, made by cutting the lemon into slices, then cutting round the pulp close to the peel. Serve the salad directly the dressing is added. Quails with Truffles.—(1) Draw and singe six Quails, and only half remove their back bones. Pare five or six black truffles, cut them into little rounds, and keep them covered. Fry the livers of the Quails with four chicken’s livers in a little bacon-fat. When cool, pound them in a mortar with an equal quantity of chopped fat bacon and half the trimmings of the truffles. Pass the forcemeat through a sieve, season it, and stuff the birds with it; trass and sew them up, put them in a saute-pan with the trimmings of the bacon and ham and the rest of the truffle trimmings, dust in a little salt, pour in white wine to half their height, and lay a sheet of buttered paper over. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put ashes on the lid, and let the contents simmer. When cooked, drain the Quails, remove the strings, and put them on a hot dish; strain and skim the liquor in w hich they were cooked, mix a little brown sauce with it, and stir over the fire until somewhat reduced. Mix with the prepared truffles 1 wineglassful of Madeira or sherry, and boil them for two or three minutes. Pour the sauce over the Quails, garnish round with the truffles (see Fig. 334), and serve. (2) Singe, draw, and completely bone the Quails, open them, season with salt, spread a layer of forcemeat over the insides, put a truffle on each, and roll them up. Tie the Quails in separate cloths, and braise them in Madeira and mirepoix. Fill a plain buttered border-mould with chicken forcemeat, and poach it in a bain-marie. When cooked, drain and untie the Quails, turn the border on to a hot dish, fill the centre with hot sliced truffles, rest the Quails partly on the border and partly on the truffles, glaze them and the border, and serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce reduced with essence of truffles. Quails in Vine-Leaves.—Roll three or four Quails sepa- rately in vine-leaves, cover with thin slices of bacon, and fasten them with skewers. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, melt it, place in the Quails, cover with the lid, and stewr gently, turning the birds occasionally. Have ready some fried pieces of bread, pour over the liquor from the pan, place a bird on each, and serve. Boasted Quails.—(1) To prepare this dish successfully a clear hot open fire is best, but in default a very hot oven will do. Pluck, singe, and draw the birds, wipe them with a wet towel, cut off the heads and feet, wrap each bird in a Quails—continued. slice of fat salted pork, and pack them closely in a sauce- pan just large enough to hold them. Season the Quails highly with salt and cayenne, pour over just enough boil- ing water to cover them, put the cover on the saucepan, and place it over a hot fire for five or ten minutes; then take up the Quails, remove the pork, wipe the birds on a clean towel, rub them all over with butter, and roast them brown before a very hot fire or in a hot oven, basting them twice with more butter and their drippings. Meanwhile strain the gravy in which they were stewed, and melt with it an equal quantity of red-currant jelly to form a sauce, or serve cold red-currant jelly with them. Serve the birds hot directly they are brown. (2) Draw some fat Quails, chop the livers with a small quantity of fat bacon, then mix with the forcemeat 1 table-spoonful eacli of chopped parsley and shallot, add 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, season with pepper, and bind the ingredients together with half a beaten egg. Stuff the Quails with the forcemeat and run them through with an iron skewer, placing alternately between each a bay-leaf. Roast the Quails in front of a brisk fire for ten or twelve minutes, basting them continually with lard. Put some of the fat that has dripped from the birds into a flat stewpan, add |lb. of raw ham that has been cut into small pieces, and a little more than | teacupful of freshly-grated breadcrumbs, and fry them for a few seconds ; then mix in gradually 1 wineglassful of white wine and a small quantity of gravy. Stir the sauce and let it boil for a few minutes, then move it from the fire, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons. Place the bay-leaves on a hot disli with the Quails on them, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Pick six fine, tender, fat Quails; singe, draw, and wipe them well, truss them, and lay a thin layer of lard on the breasts. Put them in a roasting-pan, spreading a very little butter on top of each, pour in £ breakfast-cup- ful of water, season with 1 pinch of salt, and cook in the oven for eighteen minutes. Place six heart-shaped pieces of toast on a hot dish, untruss the Quails, and arrange them on top, garnishing with a little watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. Salmis of Quails.—Draw and prepare two Quails, cut them into halves lengthwise down the back, put them into a pan with a little butter, and cook them. Have ready two crofitons of fried bread, and place the birds on them ; reduce and thicken the liquor, strain it, pour it over the birds, and serve with a little lemon juice squeezed over each. Stewed Quails.—(1) Pluck and singe the birds, bind slices of bacon-fat round them, and place them in a stewpan; put in a lump of butter, fry the Quails until lightly browned, strew breadcrumbs over them, and when they are browned put in an onion, a bay-leaf, 1 wineglassful of wine, and sufficient water to cook them in. Season with salt and pepper, stew the birds gently at the side of the fire until tender, then put them on a hot dish; strain their cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, and serve it with them in a sauce-tureen. (2) Draw and truss the Quails, and put them in a stew- pan lined with bacon and ham ; add some chopped veal, a carrot, onion, clove, laurel-leaf, and a bunch of parsley; pour in white wine and stock, mixed in equal quantities to the height of the birds, cover them with slices of bacon and a buttered sheet of paper, and stew them gently till done. Blanch some well-washed lettuces in veal stock, and warm them in the liquor in which the Quails were cooked. Put the Quails on a hot dish, pour a little rich gravy over them, garnish with the lettuces, and serve. QUAKING CUSTARD. —See Custards. QUAKING PUDDING—See Puddings. QUART—The fourth part of a gallon; two pints. See Weights and Measures. QUASS.—A kind of vinegar made in Russia by mixing rye-flour and warm water together, and setting them near a fire until the liquor turns sour.