289 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Rabbits—continued. finishing the other. While the fillets are cooking, pre- pare the following sauce: Pour 1 pint of brown sauce into a saucepan, add \ pint of broth, boil it, skim it, then mix in A teacupful of tomato sauce, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, some blanched mushrooms, and some small Rabbit forcemeat quenelles, seasoning with salt anti pepper. Lay a pile of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, then arrange the fillets on it, putting the plain ones one side and the larded ones the other. Mask the plain fillets with a small quantity of the sauce, pour the rest with the quenelles and mushrooms in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 342), and serve. Essence of Rabbit.—Put some bones and any pieces or trimmings of Rabbits that can be procured into a sauce- pan with a carrot, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little grated nutmeg, and two or three cloves; pour in a pint of Madeira, and boil quickly till the moisture has entirely evaporated ; then pour in 3qts. of broth, put the lid on the saucepan, and let the liquor simmer for nearly two hours by the side of the fire, skimming it occa- sionally. Strain the essence through a broth-napkin or a silk sieve into a basin, and when it has cooled slightly skim it well. Keep in tightly-corked bottles for use. Fillets of Rabbit.—(1) Cut the fillets off three Rabbits, trim them to a nice shape, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of water to make a stiff paste, and when boiling- take it off the fire and let it get cold. Take some of the flesh that is left on the Rabbits after the fillets have been removed, put it into a mortar with half its quantity of the above paste, a quarter the quantity of butter, five or six mushrooms, and pound the whole well together. Pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve, return it to the mortar, and beat it up with the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, and mix in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Form the mixture into small balls, lay them in a buttered stewpan, leaving a clear space on one side, in which pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover the balls; dust them over with salt, and boil them for ten minutes. Lay the fillets in a thickly-buttered tin, dust over with salt, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in the oven. Spread a puree of tomatoes over a hot dish, drain the quenelles, and arrange them in a circle, alternately with the fillets, over the puree. Fill the centre with button-mushrooms that have been boiled in salted water and lemon-juice, and serve with as little delay as possible. (2) Skin and clean four Rabbits, cut off all the fillets, trim them as nearly as possible to one size, put them into a basin with a marinade of lemon-juice, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, slices of shallot, and salt and pepper, and let them remain for a couple of hours. Take them out, drain them, dip them into well-beaten white of egg, cover them with breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them to a golden brown. Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish with poivrade or Spanish sauce poured over them, and serve. Fillets of Rabbit a la Valencienne.—Skin the Rabbits, cut the fillets from the bones, and if large cut each fillet into halves; trim them to the shape of a small cutlet, beat them, put them in a buttered saute-pan, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, dredge them over with Rabbits—continued. salt and pepper, and place them over a moderate fire, turning when cooked on one side and finishing the other. The fillets should not be browned. When quite firm, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Pour a little more than 1 pint of white sauce into the saute-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock, stir it over the fire, and reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon; then mix in £ teacupful of cream and a little lemon-juice, and season with salt and pepper. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve them. Fillets of Rabbit with Cucumber.—Peel and thinly slice a couple of large cucumbers, put them into a basin with vinegar and salt, and let them macerate for a couple of hours, turning them frequently. Take out the slices of cucumber, arrange them on a board, place another weighted board on the top, and let the cucumber remain thus until cold and moderately dry. Put it into a saucepan with a little butter, warm it at the side of the fire, add a seasoning of thyme, chives, parsley, and laurel-leaf, place the pan on the fire, and stir well to give it a light golden colour. Sprinkle over a small quantity of flour, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich stock, set the pan back at the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the liquor thickens, which will be in about half-an-liour. Cut the fillets from one or two roasted Rabbits, put them into the saucepan with the cucumber, warm them thoroughly but without boiling, add salt and pepper to taste, turn the contents of the pan out on to a dish, and serve. Fillets of Rabbit with Liver Sauce.—Cut off the fillets of one or two plump young Rabbits, trim them nicely, and lard them with thin fillets of fat bacon. Chop the trim- mings of the Rabbits, and put them in a mortar with half their bulk of paste panada and 4oz. of butter, and pound the whole until smooth, seasoning with a moderate quantity of powdered spices and sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and stir into it the yolks of three eggs and the white of one that have been beaten together with 3 table-spoonfuls of cream and strained. Mould the mixture into pieces the shape and size of an egg with two table spoons, put them into a buttered saute-pan, pour in at the side sufficient boiling water to cover them, and boil for ten minutes. Lay the larded fillets in a thickly-buttered baking-dish, dust them over with salt, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them in the oven. When cooked, drain the quenelles, arrange them alternately with the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, garnish them with button mush- rooms, and pour in the centre a sauce made as follows: Blanch the livers of the Rabbits, and finely chop them ; put loz. of butter into a stewpan with ^ table-spoonful of flour and 1 table-spoonful of minced shallots, and stir them over the fire for three or four minutes ; next pour in a sufficient quantity of clear gravy to make the sauce, put in small quantities of powdered sweet herbs and spices, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 wineglassful of red wine, and stir over the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, put in the livers, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Put in the sauce 4oz. of butter in small pieces and the strained juice of half a lemon. Serve the fillets while very hot. Fillets of Rabbit with Parmesan Cheese.—Cut the fillets off' two or three Rabbits, trim off the inner skin and small sinews, beat them lightly with a cutlet-bat dipped in water, trim them, dust them over with salt and pepper, put them in a baking-dish with plenty of butter, and bake them. When taken out of the oven, press the fillets between two dishes until cold. Mix in equal quantities some grated Parmesan cheese and grated breadcrumb, and season them with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs. When the fillets are cold, dip them in warmed butter, roll them in prepared crumbs, and leave them until the butter has cooled on them; then dip them in beaten eggs and breadcrumb them again, only using plain breadcrumbs this time. Leave the fillets for an hour or two. Put a good-sized lump of lard into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until boiling; For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ttc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II