253 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—cordi nu ed. closely. Bake in a moderate oven for two-hours-and-a- lialf, then turn it out, and serve with cream sauce. Angel Puddings.—For Jib. of flour allow an equal weight of caster sugar and butter, four eggs, and 1 pint of milk. Put the butter and milk in a saucepan and stir them over the fire until the butter has dissolved. Put the flour and sugar in a basin, and pour the milk and butter over them, stirring at the same time to keep them perfectly smooth. Beat the eggs thoroughly and stir them in with the above, mixing well. Butter some patty-pans, three-parts fill each with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven until nicely browned. When cooked, take them out of the pans, ar- range them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve with cut lemons. Aunt Louisa’s Pudding. -Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of grated j breadcrumbs into a basin, pour over them three breakfast- cupfuls of warmed milk, mix well, and add 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar, ljoz. of butter, the well-whisked yolks of six eggs, and the juice and grated peel of a lemon. When these are thoroughly J incorporated, turn the mixture into a buttered pie-disli, place it in a quick oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. In the meantime, work 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar into the juice of a lemon poured into a basin, and beat in the whites of the six eggs whisked to a still' froth. Take the Pudding out when done, mask it on the top with apricot jam, heap the frothed egg on the top of that, set in the oven for a few minutes to lightly brown it, and serve. Baby’s Pudding.—Lightly nib the interior of a small basin I with butter, and put in it a penny sponge cake that has ! been broken in small pieces. Whisk an egg with J pint of milk, pour it over the cake, and leave until well soaked. Tie a sheet of paper over the basin, put it in a small saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for half-an-liour. Turn the Pudding out of the basin five minutes after it is taken up, and serve. Baden-Baden Pudding.—Wash 1 teacupful of rice, put it in a saucepan with a small piece of stick vanilla and J pint of milk, and boil until soft. Before the rice is quite cooked, put in Joz. of dissolved gelatine and boil it. Sweeten 1 pint of cream with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and whip it to a still' froth. When cooked, take the rice of! the fire and leave it until slightly cooled, then stir in the cream quickly. Rinse a mould with cold water, pour in the mixture, and put it in a cold place until firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the Pudding on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Preserved fruit can be served with the Pudding if liked. Baked Californian Pudding.—Well beat three eggs with f pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with a few drops of essence of almonds, and add J wine- glassful of pale brandy. Stir the mixture over the fire until thickened, then move it off. Put some small pieces of stale sponge cake in a pie-dish with ljoz. of thinly- shredded citron-peel, pour the custard over it, and leave for half-an-liour. Slightly warm 6oz. of butter and beat it with 6oz. of caster sugar until frothy. Spread this mixture oyer the Pudding, and bake for an hour. It may be served either hot or cold. Balloon Pudding.—Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 pint of fresh milk, then turn it into a saucepan and stir by the side of the fire, adding gradually five well-beaten eggs and a lump of butter. When on the point of boil- ing, move the mixture from the fire. Butter some tea- cups, half fill them with the mixture, and bake for fifteen minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the pud- dings out of the cups on to a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. Bank-Holiday Pudding.—Mix 4oz of finely-shredded suet with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of ground rice, and the grated rind of a lemon, and work in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Pour the mixture into a buttered Pudding-basin, put it in a steamer over a sauce- Puddings—continued. pan of boiling water, and cook for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over a sauce made with melted butter, sugar, and a little white wine, and serve. Barford Pudding.—Chop fib. of beef suet, and mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, 5oz. of moist sugar, Jib. of stoned and chopped raisins, four well-beaten eggs, and a small quantity each of salt and grated nutmeg. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, then turn the whole into a well- buttered basin; tie a cloth over the basin, and boil the contents for three-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, ami serve. Bath Pudding.—Put 3 teacupfuls of milk into a basin, and work in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of flour to make a light paste. Put 6oz. of butter into a basin at the side of the fire, and stir in the flour mixture until the butter is melted; let it get cold, then add the grated rind of a lemon and the juice of half a one, six well-beaten eggs, sufficient sugar and grated nutmeg to taste, and h wine- glassful of brandy. Put a layer of puff paste round the edge of a dish, pour in the mixture, set the dish in a quick oven, and bake until the pudding is done. Take it out, pour over a little wine sauce, and serve. Beaufort Pudding.—Butter a shallow dish, line it with a good puff paste, and spread a thick layer of strawberry jam at the bottom. Whisk the yolks of four eggs and the white of one well together with 4oz. each of sugar and slightly-warmed butter and a few drops of ratafia. When ready, pour this mixture over the jam in the dish, and bake. Serve either hot or cold. Beaulieu Puddings.—Melt 6oz. of butter, then beat till creamy, and mix it with 1 teacupful each of flour and caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, 2oz. of sliced mixed candied peel, a few blanched and chopped bitter almonds, and double the quantity of sweet almonds, also blanched and chopped. Mix the above ingredients thoroughly, adding b wineglassful of brandy. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the moulds on to a hot dish, and serve (see Fig. 316). Bird’s-Nest Pudding.—(1) Peel and core eight apples, but do not cut or break them. Arrange them in a good-sized Pudding-dish, and fill the places where the cores were with sugar. Then with 1 b pints of milk, 3oz. of flour, and four eggs, make a batter; pour this over the apples, and bake till the fruit is done. For the sauce beat Jib. of butter till very light; add Jib. of powdered white sugar and J pint of cream. Stand the bowl in which the mixture is in a basin of hot water, and stir till all is creamy. Two minutes ought to be enough. Serve in a tureen. (2) Pare and core a few moderate-sized cooking apples, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water and plenty of sugar, and stew until tender. Put 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of sago in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, the strained juice of a small lemon, and 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and boil it until reduced to a jelly, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. Turn the sago on to .a deep dish, put the stewed apples in it, and place on each apple a small quantity of raspberry-and- currant or strawberry jam. Serve cold. (3) Cut off the peel of half-a-dozen oranges, put it into a basin with about Jgall. of water, and let it remain for