THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 353 S ABOTIERE.—An apparatus used by the French for making ices. SACHSEN SAUCE.—See Sauces. SACK.—A name formerly given to various dry Spanish wines. A corruption of Sec—dry. SADDLE.—A name given to a part of an animal con- taining a portion of the back-bone with ribs on each side. A double loin. See Mutton, Venison, &c. SAFES.—(Fr. Garde-mangers). The term itself is sufficiently suggestive of the apparatus referred to—a closet or chamber used for keeping food. The Safe should therefore be situated in a cool corner, and so contrived as to permit free ventilation. Perforated zinc answers well for tin doors and sides of Safes; but the rule being to use zinc for the door only no air can pass through, and then the ventilation is rendered almost inactive. The Safe shown in Fig. 419 is ventilated according to Keen’s principle, and answers well, if the doors are ventilated also. It may be taken for granted that one of the prime objects of a Safe is to keep flies away from meat and other food, therefore it is advisable that the perforations should not be too large. SAFFRON (Fr. Safran; Ger. Safran; Ital. Zaffe- rano; Sp. Azafran).—At one time Saffron was used extensively in cookery for colouring sweetmeats and broth ; but now its use has dwindled almost down to obliteration, be- ing rarely met with ex- cepting for colouring confectionery and liqueurs. Saffron, as known to us, consists of the prepared stigmas of a plant called Crocus sativus (see Fig. 420), and is sold in two varieties— Hay Saffron and Cake Saffron. One probable reason for its falling into disuse is that it is rarely if ever sold unadulterated. The extract is made as follows : Put a small quantity of saffron in a jar, pour about 1 teacupful of boiling water over it, and leave it till the colour is drawn out. Strain the extract, and bottle it; or it can be used immediately. Fig. 420. Saffron Plant. SAGE (Fr. Sauge; Ger. Salbei; Ital. Salvia; Sp. Salvia).—This herb (Salvia officinalis) is best known to us in conjunction with onions for stuffing pork and geese. It has a peculiar grayish green leaf, powerfully aromatic. In some countries it is used to flavour cheese. The leaves may be dried and powdered for winter use as follows: Pick the Sage-leaves on to a sheet of paper, and dry them slowly before the fire, or in a slack oven. \V hen very crisp, nib the leaves between the hands to obtain as fine a powder as possible. The powder must be kept in a tightly-corked bottle, or it will lose its flavour. Sage Gargle.—Put a large handful of Sage-leaves in a saucepan over the fire with 1 pint of water, cover the saucepan close, and let the water boil very fast. W hen it is reduced to 4 pint, strain, and let it stand till quite cold; then add “to it 4 pint each of vinegar and port wine. Sweeten with brown sugar or honey. Sage-and-Onion Stuffing.—(1) Put into a pan 2qts. of finely-sifted breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of minced onion, 1 large table-spoonful of chopped Sage, and 1 table- spoonful of salt and pepper. Beat up one egg in 1 breakfast-cupful of warm water, pour it over the bread- crumbs, and work in 1 breakfast-cupful of lard. (2) Boil two large onions till nearly soft, then strain them, chop them finely, and mix with them double their quantity of grated stale breadcrumbs, 1 scant dessert-spoon- ful of chopped Sage, and 2oz. of butter. Season with pepper and salt, and bind the stuffing with the beaten yolk of one egg. SAGO (Fr. Sagou; Ger. Sago).—The term itself is derived from the Malayan Sagu, which signifies pith. The Sago of commerce is obtained from the interior of the trunk of several palms, being imported to us from Sumatra, Java, Borneo, and Malacca. It resembles arrowroot in many of its characteristics, but it is greatly over-rated as a nutrient food. It is much used in this country for making puddings and pies, and other sweet dishes. Sago-and-Apple Pudding.—Peel about half a score of large cooking apples, core them, cut them into quarters, and lay them in a pie-dish; put 1 heaped teacupful of Sago in with them, pour in sufficient cold water to cover, sweeten to taste with moist sugar, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. If it becomes too dry, add more water. Serve it hot. Sago-and-Beer Soup.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Sago into a stewpan, with the thinly-pared rind of a small lemon, a few cloves, sugar to taste, and 2qts. of ale. Boil gently until the Sago is dissolved, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon; then put in a lemon cut into thin slices, from which all the pips have been removed, and 2 wineglassfuls of Rum. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. Sago Cakes.—Beat lOoz. of butter till creamy in a basin, then mix in gradually, while still beating, six eggs, a Fig. 421. Sago Cakes. little more than lib. of Sago, and lOozl of caster sugar, and beat the mixture until quite smooth. Butter a deep baking-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake it. Put 6oz. of loaf sugar in a stewpan with 34 pints of water, VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. A