THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 277 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Purees—continued. alludes to the untrained British cook, for there are some British cooks upon the staff of this Encyclopaedia who are capable of taking their place with the best French cook in the country, either in the matter of Purees or in anything else. Purees are generally used for adding substantiality to soups. They are made by moistening the cooked material, whatever it may be, and rubbing it through a fine wire sieve by means of a wooden pestle (see Fig. 330). FURL.—A drink that is not much in vogue at the pre- sent time. It was formerly a malt liquor, medicated with wormwood. Modern Purl is beer mixed witli gin, sugar, and spice, and to which bitters are sometimes added to give it a tonic virtue. PURSLANE (Fr. Pourpier; Ger. Portulak; Ital. Pouellana).—At one time this plant (Portulaca oleracea) was commonly grown as one of our garden herbs. In modern times it is not much used in this country. The young shoots are sometimes put in salads, and the older ones used as a pot herb. The following are two good receipts for preparing it: Fried Purslane a la Milanaise.—(1) Lay some brandies of Purslane on a dish with a stick of cinnamon, dust them over with caster sugar, and squeeze plenty of lemon- juice over them. Let them steep for a few hours. Beat an egg well with t pint of milk, then stir in sufficient flour to make a rather stiff batter, mixing it quite smooth. Put a lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises. Dip the Purslane well in the batter, then put it in the boiling fat and fry over a moderate fire. When cooked, put the branches of Purslane on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain for a minute. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, arrange the Purslane on it, and serve. (2) Prepare the branches of Purslane, put them in a bowl, and cover with a mixture of lemon-juice, sweetened with caster sugar and flavoured with powdered cinnamon. Let them steep in this marinade for several hours; it is well to put them in the night before they are wanted, and leave them until the following morning. When ready, pre- pare a batter of eggs, milk, and flour, and add the marinade mixture to it. Put a large piece of butter into a fiat stewpan, and place it over the fire until boiling; dip the branches of Purslane in the batter, then put them into the boiling fat, and fry until nicely browned. Drain them, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. QUAILS (Fr. Cailles; Ger. Wachteln ; Ital. Quaglie ; Sp. Codornig).—The Quail (Coturnix communis) is regarded by all European cooks as one of the most tasty of our table-birds. It is spoken of frequently as superior to the partridge, the. superiority probably arising from the fact that they are in season during the summer months, when the partridge is not. They are imported in large quanti- ties from Egypt, some consignments being as much as fifty thousand at a time, out of which not more than seven per cent, would perish on the road. The plumage is of an ashen grey colour, mixed with black, in a sort of shell-like pattern, in consequence of which the birds have received their name from the French Ecaille—shell. There are several ways of cooking Quails, French cooks being especially expert with them. They are usually sup- plied by the poulterers plucked, trussed, and dressed ready for cooking. The following receipts have been collected from various sources : Aspic of Quails l’lmperatrice.—Take six prime Quails, or as many as may be required, trussed and larded as for roasting, place them in a stewpan containing 4oz. of lean ham, six allspice, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, a small carrot and an onion chopped up, and a little thyme and paisley; moisten with 1 pint of chicken stock and 1 wine- Quails—continued. glassful of sherry. Put on a tight-fitting cover, and let them simmer gently until thoroughly cooked. When done, remove the stewpan from the stove, and allow the Quails to remain in the liquor until cold. Then take them out and wipe them with a clean cloth; cut each Quail into halves and fill up the interior with foies gras, dip each half into reduced supreme sauce, and just before they begin to set sprinkle over them some chopped black truffles and tongue. - When set, place them upon a fiat dish, giving them plenty of room in between, pour over a little liquid aspic jelly, repeating it until the Quails have a thick coating over them; place them upon the ice so as to get them thoroughly set. Just before they are wanted for table, trim them round carefully with the point of a knife, dish them upon a cone of rice which Fig. 331. Aspic of Quails a l’Imferatrice. has been previously prepared, garnish in the centre with a ragoftt of cocks’ combs and small truffles, put round the base croutons of aspic with chopped red aspic in between (see Fig. 331), and serve. Aspic of Quails a la Strasburg.—Take six Quails, bone them, and cut off' the feet. Stuff them with the following: Rub down some foie gras with a knife, add some chopped black truffles and mushrooms, two yolks of eggs, and season with a dust of cayenne. Having filled the Quails, roll them up in buttered paper, twist the ends in so as to keep them a good shape, and put them into a saute-pan with a little stock, a little mixed vegetables chopped very fine, twelve allspice, and three bay-leaves. Bake them in the oven. When done, let them get cold, and then remove the papers and cut each one into halves. Mask them with the following: Mix together 1 gill of reduced brown sauce and 1 gill of aspic jelly; having done this, set one dozen small dariole-moulds upon the ice, pour in just sufficient liquid aspic to cover the bottoms, and decorate these with boiled whites of eggs and black truffles cut up into slices and stamped or cut out into different designs. Next pour in a little more aspic; when set, put in the Quails, half-fill the mould with aspic, and when this is set also, finish filling them up; when set, turn out and place them upon some small salad, decorate the dish with c.rofftons of aspic and with coloured chopped aspic laid in between, with a pile of shred lettuce in the centre. Ballotmes of Quails with. Perigueux Sauce.—Bone the Quails, stuff them with chicken forcemeat, and roll them round; tie each up in a separate piece of cloth, and braise them in mirepoix sauce and Madeira wine. Fill a buttered border mould with cooked potatoes, press them down, and poach for a few minutes in a bain-marie. Turn the potato border out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill the centre with the Quails, pour over some perigueux sauce, and serve. Braised Quails and Celery Sauce.—Take six nice fat Quails, singe, draw, and wipe them well. Truss and cover the breasts with a thin layer of lard. Place them in a saute-pan with a piece of pork rind and half a carrot and onion, both cut up, and let them get a good golden colour on the fire. Moisten with £ breakfast-cupful of water, put them in the oven, and cook for twenty minutes. Serve with 1 pint of celery sauce and a little meat glaze poured over, or with a financiere garnish.