419 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Serviettes—continued. edge over four times, making a 2in. fold, crease it down tightly, as in Fig. 497A, and turn the napkin over so that the fold comes in the middle with much the same Fig. 497a. effect as in Fig. 512A of the “Double Diamond” design. Turn it over again; take the left-hand top corner and bring it over along the centre; do the same with the other side, forming Fig. 497B. Take point C and bring it to point A, fold back D on to the triangle, then take A point B and do the same, folding back portion marked D, as before. Turn the Serviette over, and put the bread under the fold in the centre diamond. This design is very often used in folded tissue-paper for serving cheese tartlets or fancy pastry. Bat, Mo. 1.—Fold the Serviette in three, so that a single fold comes on the top, with the selvedge towards you, and turn back the two end points, leaving a space in the middle, as in Fig. 49SA. The dotted line in the diagram indicates where the lower edge is to be folded over once; then proceed to kilt up the Serviette like a fan, from A to B, being careful to pleat the upright points evenly. When the lower part is placed in a wineglass, the design will appear as in Fig. 498. Bat, Ho. 2.—A slight variation of the above pattern is made as follows: Place the Serviette open lengthwise on the table, take the top points and double over a third of Serviettes—continued. the width towards you, then fold back these two top points like wings, as in “ Bat No. 1” (see Fig. 499A). Double back the lower line A A in a 4in. fold, again double it back so that the fold comes well over the lower portion of the wings. Kilt from end to end, as in the first description; then, holding the Serviette firmly in the left hand, proceed to turn down the inner fold between each pleat, as shown in Fig. 499. This variety of the Bat pattern is the taller of the two. Bat, Ho. 3.—Another variation of this pattern, which has the advantage of being alike on both sides, is made by folding the Serviette into four, and this must be done as though the Serviette were kilted. Let the long side For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. 2 e 2