THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 248 uces, <Scc., referred, to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Primroses—continued. of yeast; set it to ferment for three days, strain it, and afterwards filter it into a cask that will exactly contain it. Put a slight covering over the bung-hole, and let it remain until it has ceased to ferment, when pour in f pint of brandy with Joz. of isinglass dissolved in it, bung up the cask securely, and let it stand for a year. Bottle the wine, and in six months’ time it will be fit for use. Sand or some other material should be placed over the bung to prevent air from entering. PRINCE ALBERT PUDDING.—See Puddings. PRINCE’S BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. PRINCE’S CREAM.—See Cream. PRINCE’S PUDDING.---See Puddings. PRINCE’S SAUCE.—-See Sauces. PRINCE’S SOUP.—See Soups. PROFITEROLLES.—A name given by some French pastrycooks to a very delicate kind of puff pastry. Gouffe gives some good receipts for their use and preparation. Frofiterolles with Chocolate.—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with a small pinch of salt, loz. of sugar, and l pint of milk; set the pan on the fire, and when the liquor is warm add a flavouring of orange- or rose-flower water and sufficient flour to make a stiff paste. Remove the saucepan from the fire and beat in three or four eggs, making it of such a consistency that it will easily drop from the spoon. Drop a little at a time on to a well-floured slab or board, roll them into balls tlie size of plums, put them on a baking-sheet at a little distance from one another, set the baking-sheet in a slow oven, and bake until they are done and rather crisp and dry. Take the Profiterolles out, and let them cool; make an opening in the top of each one, and fill them with a little frangipani cream, well flavoured with almonds and lemon-zest,. Spread a little of this cream at the bottom of a dish, pile the Profiterolles on it to form a pyramid, ami put them in a very slow oven or dry closet to keep warm. A few minutes before serving, pour over l pint of liquid choco- late, thicker than it is usually made for drinking, and serve. Profiterolle Pudding. —Pour l pint of water into a sauce- pan with 4oz. of butter and loz. of sugar, set the pan on the fire, and when the liquor boils dredge in ilb. of sifted flour, stirring it with a wooden spoon over the lire and working for four minutes. Then remove the pan from the fire, and add three eggs, one at a time, beating each one well in before another is added. If the paste will drop from the spoon it is of the proper consistency; but if it will not, a little more egg must be worked in. Pour the paste into a funnel made of paper, cut off the tip, leav- ing a hole about Jin. in diameter, and squeeze out the paste on to a baking-sheet in lumps about the size of a walnut (or this may be done with a biscuit-bag) ; brush them over with egg and flatten them a little on the tops, set the baking-sheet in the oven, and bake for a few minutes until the Profiterolles are done ; then make a slight hole in the top and fill all of them with apricot jam thus: Put the jam into another paper funnel, make a small hole at the top, insert the end in the holes made in the Profiterolles, and squeeze in the jam. In the meantime wash and stone 4oz. of raisins, and cook them in a little syrup at ‘20deg. (see SYRUPS). Put loz. of gelatine in a basin with a little water and let it steep. Pour ]qt. of boiled cream into a saucepan over the yolks of ten eggs and 12oz. of sugar; set the saucepan over the fire and stir continually until the custard thickens, but without letting it boil. Remove the pan from the fire and stir for three or four minutes longer. Add the gelatine, drained of the water, and when it is dissolved pass the mixture through a very fine sieve into a basin. Pack a cylindrical mould in ice and let it remain to get quite cold. Add 1 teacupful of kirschenwasser to the strained custard mixture, Profiterolles—continued. and when it is cold pour a little of it at the bottom of the mould to about fin. in thickness. Put a few of the Pro- fiterolles on this in a circle, intermixing with a few of the cooked raisins, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Cover the mould with a tin, pack the ice on it, and when it has frozen for about an hour, turn the pud- ding out on to a dish, and serve. Profiterolles for Soup.—Put 1 teacupful of milk into a saucepan with loz. of butter and 1 pinch of salt, set the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the butter is melted dredge in sufficient flour to make the mixture into a still' paste, and then work in one egg. Drop the paste on to a baking-tin or dish, letting it fall in small lumps the size of a pea, set the tin or dish in the oven, and bake the Profiterolles to a pale colour, when they are done. They must be added to the soup only just before it is put into the tureen. PROOF SPIRIT.—See Alcohol. PROSANICO.—The name of an Italian wine pro- duced in Umbria. PROVENCAL.—Of or belonging to Provence. A name given to a sauce and some other kinds of French cookery. PRUNES (Fr. Pruneaux ; Ger. Pflaumen).—What are generally known as Prunes, or French Plums, are the driedfruits of a plum-tree cult ivated in many parts of France specially for the purpose. The fruits are, however, delicious when ripe, and are covered with a rich bloom, which makes them valuable for dessert. They are frequently grown in connection with vineyards, the broad leaves of the vine protecting the roots of the Prune-trees from the intense heat of the summer. The process of drying is thus described in a journal devoted to catering:—The fruit is not considered ready to be gathered for drying until it falls from the tree when shaken. As soon as harvested it is taken to a building where it remains for a few days to complete maturity, and it is then subjected to not less than three, and frequently to four, distinct cookings before being pronounced ready for market. The first two preliminary cookings are intended to produce evaporation of the water contained in the fruit, and the final cooking dries the fruit and imparts a certain brilliancy much sought after by buyers. Sun-dried Prunes are most delicious in taste, but the exigencies of the trade do not permit of such long preparation. In preparing the oven for the first cooking care is exercised that the degree of heat shall not exceed 50 deg. cent., and in the second not moi’e than 70 deg. If the heat is too strong, an ebullition is produced in the fruit, the skin bursts, the juice discharges, and the Prune becomes sticky, loses its flavour, and consequently its commercial value. After each cooking, which occupies about six hours, the fruit is removed from the oven and exposed to the air. When the Prunes are cold, they are carefully turned by women specially charged with this duty, who avoid disturbing the fruit while it is warm, as the touch renders it glutinous and prevents the juice from congeal- ing. The third cooking is performed at a temperature of from 80 deg. to 90 deg. and occasionally at 100 deg. After the third cooking the Prunes are sorted, and such as are found imperfectly cooked are again submitted to the oven. The degree of perfection in cooking is obtained when the fruit presents a dark purple colour, a solid and brilliant surface, mobile and elastic to the touch, and when the kernel is well done and intact to the shell. When these condi- tions are not obtained, the kernel ferments and alters the entire Prune, which very soon becomes mouldy and worthless. During the various processes the fruit loses about 70 per cent, of its original moisture. The dark colour depends largely upon the degree of maturity at the time of gathering. The brilliancy of sur- face has no other commercial value than that of proving