THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 405 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sausages—continued. the way round with broad tape. Put the Sausages into a saucepan of cold water, place it over a slow fire until the water begins to boil, then move it to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering gently for an hour. Drain the Sausages and serve them when cold. To make them a rich dark colour, mix with the mince, if it can be obtained, some pig’s blood, which should be caught while killing, and into which should be immediately stirred a good-sized lump of salt. Bologna Sausage.—(1) Finely chop lib. each of beef, pork, veal, and rather fat bacon; mix with the above ingredients fib. of beef-suet, also finely chopped, and season with sage, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Press the mixture into a large skin, secure it tightly at both ends, and prick it in several places. Put the Sausage into a saucepan, cover it with boiling water, and let it boil slowly for an hour. When cooked, put the Sausage on straw to drain. (2) Put 31b. each of lean beef and pork into a stewpan, cover them with hot water, and boil for half-an-hour. Drain the meat, cut it into small pieces, mix with it 2lb. of bacon and l£lb. of beef-suet, both finely chopped, and season with ground mace, chopped thyme, and pepper. Fill large skins with the mixture, and tie them into lengths. Put the Sausages into beef brine, and leave them for nine days. Smoke them as for ham. When smoked, rub the Sausages over with pepper and keep them in a dry cool place. Cambridge Sausages.—Take off the skin and gristle from 8oz. each of beef and veal and cut them into small cubes. Mix these with double the quantity each of bacon and pork, also cut up small, and stir in lib. of finely-minced suet, a few sage-leaves, dried and powdered, and a small quantity of sweet herbs, with salt and pepper to taste. Well wash and clean two large skins, press the Sausage- meat into them, tie the ends securely, prick them slightly, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. Take them out when done, drain them, wipe them on a cloth, let them get cold, and they are ready for use. They may be eaten hot if preferred. Frankfort Sausages.—Any part of pork may be used for these Sausages, having the same quantity of fat as there is lean; mince the meat finely, and season it with ground coriander-seeds, pepper, salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; the quantity of seasoning must be judged according to the quantity of meat. Fill the skins (they should have been well cleansed and steeped in cold salted water for a few hours), secure them at the ends, and hang them in a cool dry place until wanted. German Sausages.—This term is applied generally to a kind of large cooked Sausage, usually dried or smoked. The Bologna Sausage is commonly known as a German Sausage, whereas more genuine receipts will be found under Frankfort Sausages, Maintz Sausages, and Mecklenburg Sausages. Knack Sausages (German).—Select a piece of pork without much fat, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew it over a very slow fire. When nearly cooked, drain the meat, mince it as finely as possible, and season it to taste with salt, pepper, allspice, and grated lemon-peel. Fill some small skins with the mixture and secure them at the ends. Put the Sausages in a saucepan of cold water and boil them for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time drain the Sausages, plunge them into cold water, then hang them up in a cool place to dry. Lent Sausages.—The use of meat being discarded by certain persons at this season, some good sausages suitable for the occasion may be made of minced hard eggs (see Egg Sausages), or fish forcemeat (see Fish) such as would lie used for making fish quenelles being specially recommended. Madrid Sausages.—Remove the rind and gristle from an equal quantity of fat bacon and lean pork. Chop them up very finely, and season with salt, pepper, and ground .spices. Fill some well-cleaned skins with the mixture, and divide it into Sausages about 2tin. long. Maintz Sausages.—Cut into small pieces 81b. of pork, and mix with it 1 handful of pepper, and £ saltspoonful of Sausages—continued. saltpetre; mince the meat, and mix with it gradually 1 h pints of cold water. Put the mixture into some small prepared pig’s intestines, tie them into short Sausages, and hang them in a warm place to dry for two days. Broil the Sausages on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning them often. When cooked, put the Sausages on a hot dish, and serve. Mecklenburg Fressed Sausages.—Finely chop an equal quantity of raw fat bacon and lean beef, and season the mixture well with pepper, salt, and allspice, also a very small quantity of pounded cloves. Fill some ready pre- pared skins with the mixture, and tie them securely at the ends. Pack the Sausages closely together on a dish, strew plenty of salt over them, put another dish on the top, over which put a heavy weight until the following morning, then cover each one separately with a piece of muslin, and hang them up in the smoke for a week. At the end of that time put the Sausages without the muslin into a saucepan of cold water, place the pan over the fire until the water boils, then move it to the side of the fire and keep the water boiling gently for an hour; as the quantity of water decreases, more boiling water should be poured in, as the Sausages must be kept well covered during the cooking. Serve the Sausages when cold. Mecklenburg Sausages.—Procure the required quantity of lean pork, also a small quantity of fresh blood, that has been caught when killing the pig, and which should have had a piece of salt stirred into it at once. Chop the meat until very fine and mix the blood until it to darken the colour. For every 31b. of meat season it with H table- spoonfuls of salt, 1 teaspoonful of black pepper, \ tea- spoonful of ground pimento, and one finely-minced clove of garlic. Fill some thoroughly cleaned pig’s or sheep’s skins with the mixture and tie them at the ends. Put the Sausages into a saucepan of cold water and boil them slowly for half-an-hour. At the end of that time, take the Sausages out of the saucepan, plunge them in cold water, then hang them up in a cool dry place. When the Sausages are quite dry and cold, cut them into round slices, lay them on a dish, garnish with a few neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. Oxford Sausages.—(1) Remove the skin and gristle from 21b. each of pork and veal, mince them, keeping them separate, and chop up also 21b of beef-suet. When they are all ready, thoroughly mix them together with lib. of grated bread, two grated nutmegs, the peel of a lemon cut up small, 1 table-spoonful of pepper, and 2 table-1 spoonfuls of salt, and lastly one or two sprigs of savoury thyme and marjoram, and a dozen or so sage leaves; all these should be dried and finely powdered. Have ready cleaned the required quantity of skins, squeeze in the mixture, pressing it tightly and securing the ends. The Sausages are now ready for use, and should be fried in butter for about twelve minutes or until they are well browned. (2) Remove all the skin and sinew from 31b. each of veal and pork, and finely chop them ; mix with the meat l|lb. of beef-suet, also well skinned and finely chopped, together with the crumbs of two penny rolls well soaked in water, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and dried sage, very finely powdered. Mix all very thoroughly together, put the mixture into well-cleaned skins, and tie them at intervals with fine twine. (3) Without Skins—Take off all the skin from ljlb. of pork, cut from the griskin if possible, chop it up to a mince, and mix with it one third of the quantity of veal also finely chopped. Remove all the skin from the same quantity of beef-suet as pork, and chop it up separately. Put the pork and veal into a mortar, pound them to a pulp, and mix in five well-beaten eggs. Work this mixture until the hand, and add gradually a seasoning of 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 2 table- spoonfuls of well-dried and sifted sage. Put the Sausage-meat into jars, pressing it down tightly, and if covered over with melted fat it will keep for several weeks. When wanted for use, it must be turned out on 'to a well-floured table or board, made into the shape and size of Sausages,