THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 304 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Raisins—continued. spoonful of cream of tartar, and J pint of cold water; put this mixture in a saucepan over a moderate fire, and let it hoil till when a little of it is tried in cold water it forms a soft jelly; then take it from the fire, and let it stand closely covered for a few minutes. Beat it to a smooth cream with a wooden spatula or spoon, flavour it with extract of roses, and turn it out on to a paste board and work in the Raisins. If the cream should get too soft to work, shake in a little confectioner’s sugar; if it should get too stiff, work in a little jelly or rich cream, or put it into a basin standing in warm water for a few minutes. When the Raisins are worked in, roll the mixture out with a rolling-pin, spread over it a thin layer of strawberry jelly, and roll it up. Make a stiff icing of the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth together with some confectioner’s sugar, and flavoured with extract of roses; spread it over the roly-poly, and let it stand to harden. Serve it cut in thin slices on a glass dish. Raisin Sherbet.—Put 31b. of Raisins in a stone or earthen- ware jar, with four small lemons cut into thin slices, and Alb. of caster sugar; pour in 6qts. of water, and let it remain for three days, stirring it three or four times each day. Next strain the liquor through flannel, and pour it into stone bottles, but without quite filling them. Cork the bottles, wiring them down tightly, and keep them in a cool cellar. In three weeks’ time the sherbet is ready for use. Raisin Wine.—(1) Chop up the required quantity of Raisins, put them into a tub, and pour over tepid water, allowing J gall, to every 41b. of fruit. Stir well daily for a month, then pass the liquor through a fine sieve into a cask, pressing the fruit to obtain as much liquor as possible. In warm weather it will commence to ferment in a few days ; it is wiser not to wait, but to put 1 pint of freshly- grown yeast into the cask and stir it in freely before the must is cool. Let it remain for ten days, then bung up the cask, and let. it stand for six months or so; draw it off into a clean cask, and leave it for two months longer. Dissolve a little isinglass in a little of the wine, then pour it in through the bunghole and rummage the wine gently. Bung up again tightly. It should now stand for quite a year, when it will be fit for use, but the longer it stands the better it will be. Smyrna or Valencia Raisins are the best for this wine. A little brandy may be added, but it is quite unnecessary if the fermentation has been properly conducted. (2) Take some Malaga Raisins, press and chop them fine, and to 101b. of Raisins put 2galls. of water. Let them steep for three weeks, stirring now and then during the time. Squeeze out the liquor, and put it in a cask that will just hold it, but be careful not to bung down until it has left off hissing, then bung it up close. It will be fit for use in six months. Stewed Raisins.—Thoroughly wash lib. of Raisins that have been freed of stalks, and put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water ; place the saucepan over the fire, and boil the Raisins gently until they are swollen; then sweeten them to taste with caster sugar, and boil for a few minutes longer. Remove the Raisins from the fire, leave them in their liquor until cold, then pour them into a glass bowl, flavour with a few drops of essence of rose or orange-flower water, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, put in three or four lumps of ice, and serve. Sultana Cake.—Rub Jib. each of lard and butter into 21b. of the best white flour, and when quite smooth add lib. of Sultanas, Jib. of moist sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of baking-powder. Beat two eggs well, and stir them into the above ingredients, also a sufficient quantity of cold milk to moisten. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. Take it out of the tin when cooked, and stand it up on its edge to let the steam escape. RAKI.—In Cyprus, Dalmatia, and other places, a spirit of this name is made by fermentation and distilla- tion from the expressed juice of primes, or the husks of grapes, flavoured with aromatics. RAMAZAN CAKES.—See Cakes. RAMEKINS (Fr. Ramekins ; Ger. Kasekrapfen).— The licence that all artists claim for themselves and their doings is strongly marked in the cook’s treatment of Ramekins. Originally the word signified a mixture of cheese, eggs, and other things, formed in a mould, or served on bread it is now, used in the plural sense, applied to almost any kind of cheese cake, or cake containing cheese. Some receipts for this are given under Cheese! as Cheese Puffs. The following may be considered very special: (1) Cut up small Jib. each of fresh butter, Gloucester cheese, and Cheshire cheese; pound them to a paste in a mortar, add to them the crumb of a small French roll boiled in cream, and work it into the paste. Mix in next the beaten yolks of four eggs and lastly the well-whisked whites of four eggs. Put the paste into small oblong- paper cases, and brown nicely before the fire in a Dutch oven. Serve very hot. (2) Beat up four eggs very light, then add loz. of butter warmed soft, 4oz. of grated cheese, and salt to taste. Beat all together for ten minutes, and bake immediately in paper cases or small patty-pans. (3) Grate 2oz. of Parmesan cheese into a basin, and mix it up with an equal quantity of ground ginger ; add salt, cayenne, and pepper to taste, and the yolks of six eggs, well beaten together with 4oz. of warm butter. Mix thoroughly, and add the whites of the six eggs whipped to a froth. Put the preparation in small paper cases, place them in a moderate oven, and bake for half-an-hour. When done take them out, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (4) Put 2oz. of grated cheese into a mortar, and mix in the beaten yolk of an egg, loz. of warm butter, a small quantity of pepper, and lastly one boned anchovy. Pound these well, spread the mixture on pieces of toast, brown them before the fire, and serve. (5) Put Jib. of puff paste on to a well floured board, roll it out moderately thin, grate over some cheese (Par- mesan for preference, but Cheshire or Gloucester may be used), fold the paste over, and roll it out again. Repeat this process, making three times in all, then cut the paste into any desired shape, brush them over with well-beaten yolk of egg, put them on a buttered baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake for about fifteen minutes. When done, put them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve. Dijon Ramekins. -Pour J tumblerful of water into a sauce- pan, add 6oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of crushed loaf sugar, and a slight seasoning of salt and pepper. Put the saucepan on the fire, and as soon as the mixture com- mences to bubble add Jib. of sifted flour, stirring well for five minutes until the paste is quite smooth. Turn it into a clean saucepan, add four or five eggs, and stir in gently 5oz. of finely-chopped Gruyere cheese. Drop the paste on to a buttered baking-sheet in lumps the size of a walnut, -brush them over with egg, lift them up care- fully, place them on small thin slices of cheese, put them into a quick oven, and bake until done. Take them out and serve very hot. Dutch Ramekins.—Put ljoz. of butter into a mortar, warm it, and mix in the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and 4oz. of cheese, using Gloucester or Cheshire for pre- ference. Pound them well until they are quite smooth, spread the mixture over slices of bread-and-butter, brown the surface with a salamander or in the oven, and serve at once. Fried Ramekins.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and mix with them 2oz. of warmed butter; whisk again to mix well. Fry in butter some slices of bread that have been trimmed to a neat shape, and when of a pale golden brown colour drain them and spread the beaten egg and butter over. Strew each one thickly with finely- grated Gloucester cheese, lay them on a baking-sheet over which has been* spread a sheet of white paper, and put them in a brisk oven for five minutes. Garnish a hot dish with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper,