373 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils> Sauces, tbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. an hour’s time, or when the custard has set, take the pudding out of the oven; it may be served either hot or cold. Tinned-Salmon Patties.—Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stir in the liquor of a tin of Salmon and a few drops of essence of anchovies, add a small quantity of pepper, and stir the mixture over the fire until boiling and tliickened. Put the Salmon into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced pickled gherkins, and beat it well, then mix in the thickened sauce. Roll out as thinly as possible, on a floured table, about lib. of puff paste, and divide it into pieces 3Ain. square. Put a small quantity of the Salmon mixture in the centre of each piece of paste, then double them over into three-cornered shapes; damp them with water round the edges, and pinch them together. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the patties and fry them. When nicely browned, drain them, freeing them as much as possible from the fat, then arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been spread over a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Tinned Salmon Pickled.—Put the liquor from a small tin of Salmon into a stewpan with 1 scant teacupful of water, 1 teaspoonful of chillies, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Boil the mixture, then stir into it 1 teacupful of vinegar and 2 table-spoon- fuls of oil. Put the Salmon into a basin, pour the boil- ing liquid over it, cover the basin, and leave the contents until cold. When ready to serve, put the Salmon on a dish, with its pickling-liquor poured round it, and garnish with sliced cucumber. Tinned Salmon -with Potatoes.—Flake some cold Salmon with two forks, and season it to taste. Peel and boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, and when cooked drain and mash them perfectly smooth together with a little butter or milk, and season with salt and pepper. Spread half of the potatoes at the bottom of a pie-dish, then put in the Salmon, and cover with the remainder of the potatoes; level them on the top, and mark them with a fork; put two or three small pieces of butter here and there, and place the dish in a brisk oven. When the potatoes are nicely browned on the top, serve while very hot in the same dish. Tinned-Salmon Salad.—(1) Drain the liquor out of a tin of Salmon, and flake the fish with two forks, removing any pieces of bone. Wash a small head of celery, and mince it finely with an equal quantity of boiled beetroot. Mix all the ingredients together in a salad-bowl, and pour over them a salad-dressing composed of one part vinegar, three parts salad-oil, and salt and pepper to taste. Stand the salad in a cool place, or on fee for an hour. Trim off the outside leaves from one or two fresh lettuces, and wash the remainder in plenty of cold water. Drain the lettuce well, and cut it into line shreds. Have ready a few hard-boiled eggs, and peel and cut them into slices. Mix the lettuce with the contents of the salad- bowl, garnish with the slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. (2) Drain the oil from a tin of Salmon, and mince the fish finely, removing all pieces of bones. Boil four eggs hard, lay them in cold water for a few minutes, then peel them; separate the whites from the yolks, and mash the yolks to a smooth paste with 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet olive oil. Stir till dissolved in 1 teacupful of vinegar, I table-spoonful of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Mix with the Salmon a third of the quantity of chopped white heart of lettuce or celery; put some leaves of lettuce, curled parsley, and the whites of the eggs cut into rings round a glass dish or salad-bowl, put the fish in the centre, pour the vinegar mixture over, and serve. Tinned-Salmon Souffle. —Butter a pie-dish, take the Salmon out of a small tin, and put it in; put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan with h table-spoonful of finely- chopped onions, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; pour in the liquor from the Salmon—continued. Salmon, 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and oil, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Stir the mixture over the fire until thick and boiling; move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of three eggs, then pour the custard over the Salmon. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth with 2 table-spoonfuls of an- chovy sauce. Spread the beaten whites over the Salmon, put it into a brisk oven, and bake it for half-an-hour. Al lien cooked, take the souffle out of the oven, and serve immediately. SALMON-TROUT (Fr. Truite Saumonee; Ger. Lachsforelle; Sp. Trucha Salmonada).—The fish that are known by this name are an inferior kind of sea-salmon (Sahno trutta)—inferior from a culinary point of view only. They are smaller than the salmon, and have much smaller scales. They are best cooked as follow: Boiled Salmon-Trout. -Clean a Salmon-trout, rub it well with salt, and let it remain for an hour. Wash it thoroughly, and wipe it dry; stuff it with fish forcemeat, tie up the head, put the fish on a buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, pour over a strained mirepoix, and add 2 pints of white wine and an equal quantity of fish stock or broth. Bring the liquor to the boil, remove to a slow fire, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Take out the fish, drain it, remove the skin, glaze it, put it on a dish, garnish with cooked truffles, and serve with mirepoix sauce in a sauceboat. Salmon-Trout a la Chef de Cuisine.—Clean a Salmon- trout, and marinade it; put it when ready on an oiled gridiron, and cook on one side only. Put it with the cooked side upwards on a drainer in a fish-kettle, add a mirepoix strained and mixed up with 1 pint of white wine, bring the liquor to the boil, basting the fish fre- quently with it, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. Place the trout on a dish, and keep it hot. Skim the stock, add some perigueux sauce to it, reduce it, stir in butter to give it a rich and smooth appearance, then add two or three dozen each of button-mushrooms and quenelles of whitings mixed up with a few truffles, and ten carp's roes cut up into pieces; boil these together for a few minutes, or until done, pour the whole round the trout (see Fig. 444), and serve. A garnish of fried fillets of soles is an improvement. Salmon-Trout au Gratin.—Clean and wash a Salmon- trout, salt it well both inside and out, and let it stand for an hour; wash off all the salt, dry it, stuff it w ith fish forcemeat, tie up the head to keep it in shape, put the fish upon a well-buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, pour over 8oz. of butter sauce, add 2qts. of mushrooms, 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a blanched shallot also chopped, and a little each of salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and ground spices. Pour in lqt. of white wine, bring the liquor quickly to the boil, set the kettle in the oven, and cook slowly for about an hour. Take out the fish, and skin it; untie the head, cover it with rasped bread, pour over a little warmed butter, set the fish in the oven for about five minutes, put it on a dish, and serve with half its strained stock poured over and the remainder in a sauceboat. Salmon-Trout a la Motlerne.—Clean and salt a Salmon- trout as for plain boiling, stuff it with fish forcemeat, tie up the head carefully, set the fish on a drainer in a fish- kettle, sprinkle it over with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, and lib. of butter, pour in lqt. of champagne, and set it to boil. Remove it to the side of the fire where it will