407 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., refeired to, see under their special heads. Sausages—continued. saucepan nearly all the fat they have been fried in; stir in 1 good table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until it is quite brown, then add by degrees a bare \ pint of strong beef or veal broth, and 2 glasses of white _ wine. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a few sprigs of savoury herbs (but not sage), give it a boil, then lay the fried cakes of Sausage-meat in the saucepan, put the chestnuts in the centre, and let them simmer very gently for almost an hour. Arrange the cakes of Sausage-meat on a hot dish, laying them near the edge, pile the chest- nuts in the centre, strain the gravy over them, garnish with fifed parsley, and serve as hot oossible. Fried Sausage-Meat. -Turn some Sausage-meat out of the skins, and divide and roll it into small balls; wrap each ball in a thin rasher of bacon, and pass a skewer through to keep it on. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry lightly. When cooked, lay them on a hot dish that has been spread with a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and garnish with fried parsley and small croutons of fried bread. Serve at once. Fried Sausages with Rice.—Pry twelve or fifteen Sausages in a stewpan over a slow fire. When cooked, take them out, drain them, leaving the fat in the stewpan. Put in with the fat a chopped onion, fry it, then add 1 breakfast- cupful of well-washed rice, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, pour in gradually 1-2 pints of warm broth, put in a bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, one or two cloves, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and the Sausages. Boil till the moisture has evaporated, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire for five minutes. Arrange the rice in a pile on a hot dish, rest the Sausages all round, and serve. Sausages a l’ltalienne.—Peel an onion, a carrot, a parsnip, and a few artichokes; wash and cut them into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with one or two sticks of celery, also cut into small pieces, a few sprigs of parsley and lemon-thyme, and a sufficient quantity of clear gravy to make the sauce. Boil the vegetables until tender, then remove the bunch of thyme and parsley and pass the vegetables and sauce through a coarse wire sieve. Pour the pur6e into a saucepan, and mix in with it a small quantity of butter that has been kneaded with flour. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour in moderate quan- tities of Worcestershire sauce and soy, and smaller quantities of mushroom ketchup and Harvey’s sauce. Stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side. Boil plenty of nice potatoes, and when cooked drain and mash them until quite smooth, mixing small quantities of butter with them. Cut the required quantity of Cambridge Sausages into halves, rub them with flour and butter, and toast them until nicely browned all over. Make a mound with the potatoes on a hot dish, smoothing it evenly all over, and brown the top under a salamander. Arrange the halves of Sausages on the top of the potatoes like the spokes of a wheel; mix 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers and some of their vinegar with the sauce, pour it round the potatoes, and serve. Sausage Balls.—Prepare a Sausage forcemeat, and divide it into small portions; flour the hands and roll it into balls. Put some butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot fry the balls, a few at a time, adding more butter when required. Turn them continually about, and when equally browned drain them, put them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sausage Cakes.—Pound in a mortar lib. of Australian meat with 2oz. of butter and a seasoning of ground cloves, pepper, and salt. When thoroughly mixed and pounded to a smooth paste, make it into small cakes, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of sifted bread- crumbs, and fry in boiling dripping. Serve hot. Sausage Entree.—Chop some pork, and mix with it a third of its quantity of chopped beef; season highly with pepper, salt, lemon-thyme, ground cloves, and allspice. Press the mixture into bags, tie them tightly, and keep in a cool dark place. Cut the Sausage-meat into thin slices, dip them in beaten egg, and dust with flour; put Sausages—continued. a piece of butter in a frying-pan, and when hot fry the slices in it till nicely browned on both sides. Put a mound of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the slices on the top, and serve. Sausage-Meat Cakes.—Mince separately 21b. of the lean part of pork and Hlb. of the fat part of bacon; mix them well and sprinkle over a seasoning of 2 table-spoonfuls of dried and powdered sage, and grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to taste. Turn this mixture into a mortar and pound it to a mass; take a little out at a time, form it into flat cakes, brush them over with egg, put them into a frying- pan without any fat, and fry gently for twelve minutes or so. Take them out when done, put them on a dish with a garnish of potatoes, boiled and mashed, and serve. Sausage Omelet.—Skin three raw Sausages, then put them into a saucepan with |oz. of butter; set it on a hot fire for five minutes, and stir well until they are cooked. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs, fold over the side opposite the handle of the pan, lay the Sausages in the centre, fold the other side over, and serve with \ pint of hot Madeira sauce poured round the omelet. Sausage Rolls.—Make some puff paste, roll it out, and divide it into squares ; put a roll of Sausage-meat in the centre of each square, and fold the paste over to form a long roll. Moisten and press the edges together, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake. Sausage Salad.—Cut some cold cooked Sausages into slices, arrange them round the edge of an oval dish, mask each slice with a thin layer of mayonnaise, put another slice on the top of these, and spread over another layer of mayonnaise. Sprinkle them with chopped capers. But a mound of chicory in the centre of the dish, mix some oil and vinegar in equal quantities, season with salt and pepper, pour the mixture over the chicory, strew it with chopped eggs and some minced herbs, and serve. Sausage Sandwiches (German).—Cut some slices of bread about iin. thick. Cut some slices of German Sausage and remove the skin. Butter the bread with fresh butter, cover a slice of bread-and-butter with the slices of Sausage, turn another slice buttered side downwards over the slices of Sausage, and press them together. When all the sand- wiches are made, pile evenly one on top of another, as many as can easily be cut through, trim the edges evenly, cutting off the crust, and then cut the sandwiches into pieces of a convenient size. Lay a napkin on a dish, and arrange the sandwiches neatly on it. Sausage-and-Tomato Pudding.—Season three well-beaten eggs with \ table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, 1 tea- spoonful each of sugar and chilli vinegar, and 1 salt- spoonful of salt. Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, then add the beaten eggs and 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato-juice. Butter a pie-dish, put in some Sausages, and pour the batter over them. There should only be as many Sausages as the batter will well cover. Put the pudding into a brisk oven and bake it. When the batter begins to set, put two or three lumps of butter over the top. Serve the pudding very hot. Stewed Sausages (German).—Peel eight large apples, cut them into quarters, and core them; lay them on a dish, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over them, cover with another dish, and leave them for a few hours. Wash 1 teacupful of grocers’ currants, then put them in a bowl of hot water, and leave them until well plumped. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, make it hot, then put in some Sausages, first pricking them in several places with a fork; put the apples in between them, strew the currants over the top, and place the lid on the stewpan. Put the stewpan over a moderate fire and fry the contents, turning the apples, and taking them out as each piece is cooked, and keeping them hot. Turn the Sausages constantly until they are well cooked, then take them out, and arrange them on a hot dish, putting the apples round them. Pour t teacupful of claret in the stewpan, stir it well over the fire until hot, then pour it over the Sausages, and serve.