396 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Por details respecting Culinary Pro cesses, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. Sauce for Fresh-water Fish.—(1) Chop up four anchovies and one small onion very fine, put them into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and boil for a few minutes; then stir in J pint of butter Sauce or cream. Pour the Sauce over the fish it is intended to be served with. (2) Mince very fine one onion and two anchovies, put them in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of sherry, 3 wine- glassfuls of fish or meat gravy, a piece of lemon- and orange-peel, and boil up for one minute. Melt 4oz. of butter, and mix with it the yolk of one egg well beaten; then stir it into the Sauce, boil it up again, mix with it the strained juice of an orange and lemon, and it is ready for use, either poured over the fish or in a sauceboat. Sauce for Goose.—(1) Pour l pint of port wine into a small saucepan, and place it over the fire till very hot but not boiling; then mix with it 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, season to taste with salt and cayenne, and it is ready for use, and should be poured over the bird just before serving. (2) Pour a little more than 1 wineglassful of port wine into a basin, mix in 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, half the quantity of salt, and a very little cayenne, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon- juice, a small lump of butter rolled in flour, and 1 teacup- ful of rich gravy. Mix well, turn all into a saucepan, continue to stir over the fire until very hot, and serve in a tureen. Sauce for Green Goose.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of fried breadcrumbs and sorrel-juice into a saucepan with %oz. of sugar, 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and a nutmeg cut in quarters, and boil well; then beat it until quite smooth, add a lump of butter, and serve. Sauce for Hare.—Put the liver of a hare in a stewpan, with some rich nicely-flavoured beef gravy, and boil it until tender; then chop it with a shallot and a few pot herbs, put them into a mortar, and pound them until smooth. Stir this into the gravy in which the liver was boiled, and add 1 wineglassful of port wine and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Pour the Sauce back into the stewpan, and keep it hot at the side of the fire. Sauce for Hashes.—Chop the bones of the joint, and put them with any other fragments of it, but not fat, into, a saucepan with sufficient water, about half-a-dozen berries of whole pepper, the same quantity of allspice, half a head of celery washed and cut in pieces, and a small bunch of paisley and lemon-thyme or sweet marjoram; cover the saucepan, and when boiling throw in 1 teaspoonful of salt; skim well, and let it boil for half-an-hour. Slice about 1 oz. of onion, lay it at the bottom of a stewpan, and fry it in loz. of butter until it is slightly browned; then dredge and stir in flour enough to make it into a stiffish paste. Strain the gravy from the bones, mix it by degrees with the paste in the stewpan, and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring it all the time; at the end of ten minutes it should be as thick as cream; season it either with a little shallot or tarragon vinegar, or 1 table-spoonful of ale, or a little pickle liquor of any kind, or some capers with their liquor, or 1 table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup. Put the meat into this Sauce, and let it get thoroughly hot, but not boiling. Lay some sippets of toasted bread round the edge of a dish, pour the hash into it, and serve hot. Sauce for Loin of Veal.—Put the minced yolks of three hard-boiled eggs into a small saucepan with some sweet herbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants, 1 table- spoonful of fine breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, two whole cloves, and a small quantity of beaten cinnamon. Moisten the ingredients with a sufficient quantity of clear gravy, and stir the Sauce over the fire until boiling. Put three slices of Seville oranges in it, and serve. Sauce for Perch.—Having boiled the perch with some slices of onion, roots and sprigs of parsley, pepper and salt, strain part of the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a small saucepan, mix with it 1 teacupful of veloute or bechamel Sauce, and boil it till reduced to Sauces—continued. rather a thick consistency. Shred some carrots and parsley- roots as for julienne, and boil them gently till soft in water, with the addition of a little pepper and salt. Drain the vegetables, mix them with the Sauce, add a little blanched and chopped parsley, a little lemon-juice, \ table- spoonful of butter divided into small pieces, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir the Sauce by the side of the fire till the butter has dissolved, then serve it. This Sauce can be served with fillets of sole, as well as perch. Sauce for Pike.—Put \ pint of cream into a lined sauce- pan with | teacupful of walnut ketchup and 1 table- spoonful of essence of anchovy, and place them over the fire. Knead loz. of butter with 1 small table-spoonful of flour, and when the Sauce boils, put it in, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir the Sauce until the flour has cooked and thickened. Season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and serve it. Sauce for Roasted Hare or Rabbit.—Pull out the crumb of a stale French roll, put it into a saucepan, and soak it in port wine; then place the pan on the fire, add a small lump of butter, and beat it to a pulp, adding salt and pepper to taste, then a little red-currant jelly, and | wine- glassful of vinegar. Boil up once, and serve very hot. Sauce for Roasted Meats.—Put a small lump of butter into a saucepan with a little chopped parsley, the juice of one lemon, and a little salt, and stir about on the fire for a few minutes; then pour in 1 teacupful of water and add a little meat glaze. When boiling, the Sauce is ready for pouring over the joints. Sauce for Sturgeon.—Take part of the marinade in which a sturgeon has been baked, and reduce it till thick with either some brown or white Sauce. Work 1 table-spoon- ful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, then stir it into the Sauce, with a little meat glaze, essence of anchovies, and the strained juice of a lemon. Season the Sauce with a little salt, if required, and serve it. Sauce for Sucking-Pig.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion and 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil into a saucepan over the fire, and cook gently until the onions are done, but without allowing them to take colour; then add 6 table-spoonfuls of milk, 1 wineglassful of Madeira or sherry wine, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white Sauce, and boil for fifteen minutes, skimming frequently. Add 1 table-spoonful of minced mushrooms, half the quantity of parsley also minced, 1 table-spoonful each of salt and sugar, and a small quantity of white pepper. Boil up once and the Sauce is ready for use. Sauce for Tinned Meats.—See Australian Sauce. Sauce for Wildfowl.—Put in a saucepan over the fire a small onion, a little orange- or lemon-peel, and about six leaves of basil, with 1 breakfast-cupful of veal gravy, and let it boil for five or ten minutes; then strain it. Add to the strained gravy 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, 1 wineglassful of red wine, and the strained juice either of a lemon or a Seville orange. Serve it hot. Sicilian Sauce.—Put 4 table-spoonful of coriander-seeds and four cloves into a mortar, and bruise them. Put 14 breakfast-cupfuls of gravy and 1 breakfast-cupful of essence of ham into a saucepan with the thinly-shred peel of half a lemon and the bruised seeds and cloves. When the Sauce is boiling, put into it two bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, and a sliced head of celery. Boil the Sauce till reduced to half its original quantity, then mix with it 1 wineglassful of white wine. Strain the Sauce through a fine hafr sieve. Work 1 table-spoonful of butter with 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it into a saucepan with the Sauce, and stir it over the fire till thick. Serve while hot, with roast meat or fowl. Soubise Sauce (a la Soubise).—(1) Peel three large onions, cut them into slices, put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter, fry them, but do not colour them. Mix with the onions 4 pint of veal gravy and boil till tender. Skim the Sauce, pass it through a fine hair sieve, season it with salt and cayenne, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of hot cream, and serve it.