TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 416 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Semolina—continued. Semolina Cream.—Put loz. of Semolina in 1 teacupful of milk, and soak it for an hour. Soak £oz. of gelatine in £ teacupful of water. Boil the Semolina till soft in £ pint of milk, then stir in with it another £ pint of boiling milk in which the gelatine has been dissolved, 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a few drops of essence of vanilla or any flavouring preferred. When a little cooled, turn the cream into a mould, and leave it till set. Turn the cream out of the mould on to a dish when ready to serve. Semolina Fritters.—lloil U pints of milk, sweeten it, and add gradually ^lb. of Semolina; boil it for a few minutes, stirring continually the while, then move it to the side of the fire, add a piece of butter, the beaten yolks of five eggs, and the white of one, and a little grated orange-peel. When the above ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, spread the mixture over a baking-sheet that has been moistened with water and leave it till cold. Cut the Semolina into rounds with a 12in. diameter tin cutter, then cut each round with a smaller tin cutter; the cutters should be dipped in warm water each time. Rub the fritters over with flour, then dip them in beaten egg, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs, and fry them in boil- ing butter. When nicely browned, drain the fritters, dust orange-flavoured sugar over them, put them in circles on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboat- ful of gooseberry jelly. Semolina Cfnocchi.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of milk and water into a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling sprinkle in 1 lb. of Semolina and boil and stir continually. When sufficiently cooked turn out on to a damped table, let it get cold, cut it into pieces about the size of an egg or large walnut, arrange them on a dish, dust them over with grated Parmesan cheese, ground cinnamon, and caster sugar, put a few lumps of butter here and there, and bake in the oven for an hour. A Dutch oven if at hand should be used. Serve as hot as possible in the dish they were cooked in, and set on a folded napkin spread over a flat dish (see Fig. 488). Semolina Pudding (Baked).—(1) Put 2oz. of Semolina in a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling milk, boil it for about fifteen minutes, stirring it occasionally, and sweeten and flavour to taste. Move the saucepan from the fire, stir in quickly a beaten egg, turn the pudding into a buttered pie-dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, add a few pieces of butter if desired, and bake it for an hour in a slow oven. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. Semolina—continued. (2) Soak Jib. of Semolina in a little cold milk for lialf- an-hour, then stir it into lqt. of boiling milk; boil it for ten minutes, stirring all the time, then remove it from the fire and continue to stir till it is cool. Add to it two eggs beaten up with a spoonful or two of cold milk, 2oz. of sugar, and grated lemon-peel to taste. Mix these well into the Semolina, pour it into a pudding-dish, put it in a slow oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. (3) Put 8 table-spoonfuls of Semolina into a lined stew- pan with 1 h pints of milk and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling and thickened; next move them off the fire and let them cool. Put 3oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, then beat it up with the strained juice of two small lemons and the grated peel of one. Stir the butter in with the Semolina, and add gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of foiV that have been whisked to a stiff snow. Butter the edges of a pie-dish and line them with a good tart-paste; pour in the above mixture and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked and nicely browned on the top serve the pudding. (4) Steamed.—Boil some lemon-peel in lqt. of milk then sprinkle in gradually 5oz. of Semolina and stir till very smooth; boil it for a few minutes, move the sauce- pan off the fire, sweeten to taste, and add four well-beaten eggs. Butter a mould and ornament the interior with sultanas and chopped mixed candied peel. Pour the Sem- olina mixture into the mould, put it in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam for half- an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a dish and serve when cold with a custard. (5) Mix with 1 pint of milk a small lump of butter, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, and a little salt; pour it into a saucepan, and when boiling sift in gradually lib. of Semolina; stir it till quite smooth then sweeten to taste, and boil for ten minutes, stirring at the same time. Take the mixture off the lire, stir in quickly a piece of butter divided into small pieces and the beaten yolks of five eggs. Prepare a salpicon of preserved fruits, put it in with the pudding, adding the whipped whites of four eggs and half their quantity of whipped cream. Pour all into a plain buttered cylinder-mould, stand it in a saucepan, surround with boiling water to two thirds its height, and steam for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour over a little caramel syrup that has been flavoured with vanilla, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. Semolina Quenelles.—Mix with 6oz. of fine Semolina 6 table-spoonfuls of butter, the yolks of five eggs, and a little grated nutmeg and salt. When well mixed shape the paste into quenelles and poach them in boiling water. Drain the quenelles when cooked, and serve them. Semolina Souffle.—Put 1 pint of new milk into a lined saucepan with the thinly pared rind of a lemon and sugar to taste; boil it, then move it a little to the side of the fire, and stir in gradually 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of Semo- olina; when thick take the lemon-peel out and let the mixture cool. Beat the yolks of six eggs and whisk the whites of eight to a stiff froth; mix the yolks in first with the above mixture, and lastly stir in the whisked