dll THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Samphire—continued. appearance of the flower-stalk, otherwise they are apt to be tough and stringy. At one time pickled Samphire was so highly esteemed that other succulent marine herbs, worthless for pickling, were substituted for it under the name of Marsh Samphire or Samphire itself, and amongst these a plant called Salicornia hcrbacea frequently found a place. These herbs are easily detected and distinguished from Samphire by their shape and character. Lindley informs us that the etymology of the name Samphire is somewhat curious ; it was formerly written Sampler, a corruption of Saint Pierre; and, more anciently still, it was called by the French Perce-pierre; by the Italians, Herba de San Pietro, and in Latin, Petrus crescentius. Thus a herb properly enough called Rock-cress, from its growing in the crevices of rocks, came to be known as Peter’s cress (the name Peter meaning a rock). The change to Saint Peter’s herb was an easy one; the postfix “ herb ” being dropped, San Pietro became Sampier and then Samphire. Dried Samphire.—Have a large saucepan filled with water on the fire; when it boils throw in 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt and let it boil up again; then put in the Samphire in bunches, as it grows; when it turns a good green, take the saucepan immediately from the fire and lift out the Samphire with a fork; lay it on sieves to drain till cold, then place it on earthenware plates in the stove, strew plenty of powdered white sugar over, and let it remain all night. Next day turn it on to a sieve and strew more sugar over it; repeat this every day till it is quite dry. Be careful that the stove is not too hot. Pickled Samphire.—(1) Lay some green Samphire in a pan, sprinkle over 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of salt, pour over sufficient cold water to cover it, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. After it has been steeped in water for the required time, drain it from the water and put it into a copper saucepan over the fire with I table-spoonful of salt; take care that the fire be a very slow one. Leave the Samphire till it is quite crisp, then take it from the fire at once, for if allowed to become soft it will be spoiled; put it into a jar and when quite cold cover the jar air-tight. (2) Steep some freshly-gathered Samphire for two days in brine, then drain and put it into a stone jar with a lid. Pour over sufficient vinegar to cover the Samphire, put the lid on the jar, and make it air-tight by covering with a stiff paste of flour and water. Place it in a moderate oven Samphire—continued. until very hot and the vinegar almost boils, then stand it on the top of the oven and leave it for lialf-an-hour. At the end of that time, remove the jar from the fire, and let the contents get quite cold. The paste may then be taken off and the pickle put into small jars. Tie the jars over with bladder, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. (3) Remove all the weeds from the Samphire, spread it out on a large dish, dredge it well with salt, and leave until the following day. Next put the Samphire in a colander and drain it. Put in a pan a sufficient quantity of white vinegar to cover the Samphire, with moderate quan- tities of mace, ginger, and pepper, and boil them. Wipe the Samphire dry on a cloth, put it into jars, and pour the boiling vinegar over. When the pickle is cold, tie the jars over with stout brown paper. The Samphire will be ready for use in about a fortnight’s time. Samphire Salad.—Select some small not too ripe red tomatoes, mince some Samphire pickles, and lay them in alternate rows in a glass dish, placing here and there a few slices of pickled eggs; if the eggs cannot be obtained use pickled walnuts. Make a dressing with the beaten yolks of two eggs, oil, and the vinegar from the pickled Samphire, seasoning it to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the Samphire. This makes a pretty dish, the colours contrasting well. SAMSHOO.—A powerfully alcoholic liqueur, distilled by the Chinese from the yeast fluid in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure. SAND CAKES.—See Cakes. SAND-EELS.—These are small eel-like fish of the genus Gonorliynchus, caught in large quantities at low-tide on the sands of the Channel Islands and coast of France. They are mostly used for bait; but dipped in batter, or egg-and-breaderumbs, and fried, they are reckoned amongst the daintiest dishes of Jersey. A squeeze of lemon-juice over them after cooking is an improvement. SANDERS.—This name is given to a preparation of minced beef or other meat; they are prepared as follow: Finely mince some mutton or beef, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped onion, and moisten well with good gravy. Take some scallop shells or saucers, three parts fill them with the minced meat, and fill them up with boiled potatoes mashed smooth with a little cream; put a bit of butter on top of each, and brown them with a salamander, or in front of the fire, or in the oven. Serve hot. SANDWICHES.—It is said that some time during the last century the Earl of Sandwich invented the con- venient preparations that were afterwards known by his name. It was the happy thought of an enthusiastic sportsman to discard the usual paraphernalia of a set meal and satisfy his hunger with a slice of meat held between two slices of bread. The Earl’s Sandwich has undergone numerous modifications, some of which are not very much in its favour. The proverbial stale Sand- wich of the railway refreshment-room, and the slovenly manner in which others are prepared, have brought down upon these convenient modes of taking a snack a torrent of ridicule and abuse. When well and carefully made Sandwiches are very commendable. Numerous receipts for them will be found under various headings, such as Anchovies, Hams, &c. They should be made of tinned bread. If butter be used it should be made so soft that it will spread easily without crumbling the bread. When Sandwiches are to be kept any length of time, or to be carried any distance, it is sometimes a good plan to lightly toast the outsides of the bread. This prevents the bread drying and curling. Aberdeen Sandwiches.—Chop loz. of cold tongue or ham and 2oz. of cold chicken. Put the chopped meat into a