279 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Quails—continued. fill the jar up with clarified butter, cover it with stout paper, and tie tightly down. If the bacon is not liked, plenty of fresh butter can be used in its place. Quails a la Crapaudine.—Singe and draw the Quails, re- move the claws, and truss them with their legs inwards. Pinch the breast, and scollop it without quite reaching the skin; beat the birds flat, dust over salt and pepper, and dip them twice in clarified butter and breadcrumbs. Broil them over a clear fire, and serve with Italian sauce. Quails a l’Espagnole.—Take a good-sized piece of butter, say nearly ilb., and work into it the strained juice of one lemon and "a good sprinkling of pepper and salt. Pick, draw, and clean half-a-dozen Quails, stuff them with the mixture of butter, lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws free, and truss the birds into a good shape. Cover the bottom of a sauce- pan with thin rashers of bacon, put the Quails on the bacon, and cover with more rashers of bacon. Pour a gravy over them made of equal quantities of white wine and stock, place them over the fire, and let them simmer for thirty minutes; then take the birds up, drain, untie, and lay them on a hot dish, with a piece of fried bread laid under each Quail. Serve with clear Spanish sauce and a little glaze. Quails a la Freres Provenqaux.—Draw and bone the Quails. Mix in equal quantities some raw chicken’s flesh, cooked chicken’s livers and fat bacon, all finely chopped. Season the mixture, pass it through a sieve, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of raw truffles cut into small dice; stuff the Quails with the forcemeat, roll them round, fastening the skin underneath, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in warm butter. Roll out a flat of short paste, and divide it into as many squares as there are Quails; put a bird, breast downwards, on each flat, fold the edges of the paste over the bird, and press them together. Place the Quails on a baking-dish, resting them on the jointed side of the paste; surround each with a small strip of buttered paper, butter the tops slightly, and bake them in a moderate oven, putting buttered paper over the paste ten minutes after they have been in the oven. In three-quarters-of-an-hour’s time remove the strips of paper, put the Quails on a hot dish, and serve. Quails au Gratin.—Bone and stuff twelve Quails with a fat-liver forcemeat, put a rounded truffle in each, and roll them up. Butter an entree croustade-mould 2in. deep, and line it with short-paste; put a layer of the same force- meat on the bottom 1 in. deep, and arrange the Quails on it all round the mould, putting a round piece of bread wrapped in fat bacon in the centre; cover the pie with a round of flat paste, pinch the edges together, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the croustade out of the mould, and Iremove the cover, cutting round the inside of the pinched edges. Take the piece of bread out of the centre, mop the fat out of the hollow with a cloth, and fill it with a ragofit of cocks’ combs and truffles. Pour in some half glaze, and serve. Quails a la Jardiniere.—Draw and trass the Quails, and put them in a stewpan with some thin slices of fat bacon, 1 breakfast-cupful of mirepoix, and 1 teacupful of Madeira; stew them gently till cooked. Butter a plain border-mould, fill it with braised cabbage lettuces, and press them tightly down. Turn the border out on to a dish, and fill the centre with cooked carrots, turnips, and French beans; arrange the Quails, resting half on the borders and half on the vegetables, brush them and the border over with melted glaze, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted glaze. Quails a la Turque.—Truss eight or ten Quails, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till lightly coloured. Drain off a little of the fat from the Quails, dust them over with pepper and salt, putin lib of well-washed and dried rice, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and fry the rice for two or three minutes; pour in broth to double the height of the rice and birds, add 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of tomato puree, and boil till the rice is soft. When cooked, put the rice on a hot dish, place the Quails on it, and serve. Quails—continued. Quails Boiled in Bladders.—Singe the Quails, bone the breasts, and draw them; fill the hollow with a raw truffle and a little butter, and fasten the skin over; roll each Quail in a double piece of pig’s bladder, and bind them round with thread. Put the birds in a stewpan of boiling water, and boil them for forty minutes. Take the bladders off the Quails, put them on a hot dish, pour over a little rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of perigueux sauce. Quails in Cases.—Singe and draw the Quails, and remove half of the backbones. Fry the livers of the Quails with the same quantity of chicken’s livers in a little rasped bacon-fat, and season them with salt and pepper. \\ hen cold, pound the fried livers with an equal quantity of chopped ham and some chopped truffles. Stuff the Quails with half of the prepared forcemeat, truss them, put them in a stew- pan with a little butter, and fry till half cooked. Mix with the remainder of the forcemeat 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs. Spread a layer of it in the bottom of the required number of oiled oval-shaped paper cases, and place a Quail in each (see Fig. 333); spread two sheets of paper over a baking-sheet, put the cases on it, and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When the birds are cooked, take the cases up, put them on a hot dish, pour in each a little sauce that has been reduced with Madeira, and serve. Quails with Green Peas.—Singe, draw, and truss the Quails as for boiling, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till nicely browned; then put in ill), of streaky bacon, blanched and cut into squares, 14 pints of green peas, one onion, a bunch of parsley, salt, and sufficient broth to cook them in. Put the lid on the stew- pan with hot cinders on the top, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, drain the Quails and cut off the strings. Remove the parsley and onion from the peas, stir a piece of kneaded flour and butter in with them, turn the peas on to a hot dish, put the Quails round on the peas, with the legs towards the centre, brush them over with melted glaze, and serve. Quails in Macedoine.—Singe and draw the Quails, dust pepper and salt over the livers, mix a little chopped bacon with them, and put them back in the bodies of the birds. Truss them, and put them side by side in a stewpan with some trimmings of ham, bacon, and mixed vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, .a small lump of salt, and sufficient broth and white wine mixed in equal quantities to reach to nearly the height of the birds; cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and boil them till the liquid is reduced to half its original quantity; then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and finish cooking the birds. When cooked, drain and untruss them, and glaze them with a paste- brush dipped in melted glaze. Pass the cooking liquor through a sieve, mix a little bechamel sauce with it, and stir it over the fire till succulent and thick; then mix with it a cooked macedoine of whatever vegetables are in season. Pour the sauce and vegetables on to a hot deep dish, place the Quails on it, and serve. Quail Fie.—Draw the Quails and wrap them separately in thin slices of fat bacon, with the livers, gizzards, and a small quantity of fat bacon. Prepare a forcemeat, flavouring it with salt, pepper, and thyme. Line the buttered edges of