361 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salicylic Acid—continued. in the light of an adulteration, added to disguise some defects in the food so treated, and in this respect the sanitary officer is probably correct. Professor Kolbe found that almond emulsion, treated with a small quantity of Salicylic Acid, did not smell of almonds. Beer would not decompose; fresh milk mixed with 0 04 per cent, of Salicylic Acid, allowed to stand in an open vessel at a temperature of 18deg. Cent, curdled thirty-six hours later than a similar quantity of milk standing by the side of it, but containing none of the acid. The small quantity of Salicylic Acid present was not perceptible to the palate. Dr. Rudolph Wagner contends that Salicylic Acid can be used with impunity and good results for the following purposes : If a concentrated aqueous solution of Salicylic Acid be applied to fresh meat, and the meat be then placed in well-closed vessels, it will remaip perfectly fresh for a long period. This solution is also very useful in the manufacture of sausages and such food. Butter, contain- ing a little Salicylic Acid, will remain fresh for months, even in the hottest weather. The acid also prevents the moulding of preserved fruits, and in the manufacture of vinegar it is of great rvtility. Mr. Rother, an American chemist, contends that the antiseptic powers of Salicylic Acid have been much over-rated, and he states, as an example, that he tried it for the preservation of the syrups of marsh mallow, raspberry juice, and milk, and declares that in each case it failed signally. SALLY LUNNS.—These are sweet light teacakes, named after the inventor, of whom history does not seem to have kept any very accurate record. She is said to have prepared them for the Prince Regent, through whom they were introduced to Careme. This celebrated cook at once adopted the receipt as his own, and produced them before the elite of Paris as Solilemes, an evident plagiarism of the original. The following receipts are said to be equal to the original: Sally Lunns should be cut open, well buttered, and served very hot on a covered plate. (1) Melt loz. of sugar in 1 breakfast-cupful of tepid water, and add 2oz. of yeast. When it commences to rise pour it into a bay formed in ‘21b. of flour, and let it rise. Then add 2oz. of oiled butter, work the whole into a light dough, and let it rise again. Roll it out, cut it into pieces Gin. in diameter and l^in. deep, put them on slightly greased tins, let them prove, and bake in a quick oven. When nearly done, brush over with milk or white of egg, finish baking, and they are ready for serving. (2) Dissolve loz. of butter, stir into it 14 gills of luke- warm milk, then mix in \oz. of fresh German yeast, l salt spoonful of salt, loz. of powdered white sugar, and an egg. Sift into this mixture lib. of flour, and work all well together. Set the dough to rise for half-an-hour, then knead it well, and put it into tins. Let them stand till well risen, then bake in a moderate oven. (3) Prepare a sponge with 3oz. of flour, ?,oz. of yeast, and a small quantity of warmed milk; add the flour gradually. Set the mixture to rise in a warm place until double its original size. In the meantime put 9oz. more flour on a table or board, make a bay in the centre, and work in Joz. of salt, loz. of pounded loaf sugar, 5oz. of warmed butter, the yolks of four eggs, and 1 teacupful of cream. The paste should be quite soft; beat it lightly for a few minutes, using the palm of the hand, then add the sponge, work for a few minutes longer until the whole is smooth and elastic, put it into a buttered mould, and let it rise again. When about twice its original height, brush the surface with egg, and bake in a quick oven for about an hour. Take it out when done, cut it into slices, mask them with warmed butter, put them back in their original positions, and serve when cold. (4) Mix with 1 pint of flour 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder and a scant 4 teaspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 1 teacupful each of milk and warmed butter, then mix them with the flour, &c. Add Sally Lunns—continued. the two beaten whites of the eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar. Pour the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve while hot. Sally Lunn Pudding1.—Scoop out a piece from the under side of a Sally Lunn in such a way as not to injure the upper crust, and put it back again. Place the cake in a basin, pour as much boiling milk over as it will absorb, cover with a plate, and leave it for three hours. Beat an egg well together with 1 wineglassful of sherry, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a small quan- tity of spice. Take the piece out of the cake, pour the beaten egg in the hollow, and replace the piece again. Put it into a well buttered basin (one that will just hold it should be used), strew a layer of grated breadcrumbs on the top, and cover with a sheet of paper. Stand the basin in a saucepan with boiling water nearly to the top, and boil very gently for an hour. Care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. SALMAGUNDI.—The origin of this word is very uncertain, the probability being that it is a dish named after the Countess Salmagondi, lady of honour to Marie de Medici. It is a sort of medley that has some merits, and is prepared as follows: (1) Wash two Dutch herrings, lift the flesh carefully off the bones, and lay it in a pie-dish. Peel a moderate- sized onion, cut it into slices, and lay them on the top of the fish. Put 1 pint of vinegar into a saucepan with a small quantity each of ground ginger, allspice, and popper, and boil for a few minutes; leave the vinegar until cold, then pour it over the herrings. It is better served on the following day. (2) Turn a dee]) saucer or a wide teacup upside down on a small dish and arrange round and over it in rows the yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs, chopped separately, the white meat of roasted veal or fowl, boiled beetroot, nicely seasoned with vinegar and pepper, pickled red cabbage, lean ham, tongue, a few anchovies, and a little parsley, all finely chopped, or anything else that has a good colour and a nice flavour. Make the rows at the bottom wider than the top ones, narrowing them gra- dually and varying the colours as much as possible and contrasting them nicely; arrange on the top a sprig of curled parsley, and garnish the dish with a border of parsley. Salmagundi Salad. -Put some blanched lettuce hearts in the centre of a deep dish, arranging Watercress and American cress all round. Grate some hung beef, sprinkle it over the Salad, then some powdered yolk of hard-boiled eggs, and lastly chopped whites. Place round a circle of chopped onions, beetroot, and cucumber, then round the edge some chopped red pickled cabbage and parsley; put some fillets of anchovy on the top, and serve with a dressing in a sauceboat. SALMI or SALMIS—A name given to a ragout of partly roasted game, stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments, suited to provoke appetite. Several receipts will be found under various headings. SALMI SAUCE.—See Sauces. SALMON (TV. Saumon; Ger. Salm ; Ital. Salmone ; Sp. Salmon).—Veritably this is the king of table-fish, and merits the title right well when dressed whole and freely garnished with such delicacies as crayfish and cucumber. The Salmon (see Fig. 432) (Salmo solar) is a native of northern Europe, Eastern and North America, California, and other sub-tropical climates. It ascends rivers, and penetrates to their head streams to spawn, and being very strong, leaps over obstacles that lie in the way of its progress. It has been known to attain the weight of 751b., but more generally it is caught weighing from 151b. to 251b. The best Salmon are those caught in the river Severn, and the Scotch rivers, and are at their prime from the middle of May to the close of