TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 385 Sauces—continued. readily into the saucepots of the bain-marie (see Fig. 460), in which Sauces prepared for immediate use can be kept hot for almost any length of time without spoiling. The bain-marie is, of course, suitable for large kitchens wlieie several Sauces are probably required for one meal. When only one Sauce is used, as would probably be the case in a small family, an ingenious little apparatus (see Fig. 461) has been invented which will keep the Sauce hot by being placed in the mouth of a boiler, which it would, of course, be made to fit. Besides the usual flavourings and colourings used in Sauce-making, it is sometimes found necessary to thicken them either by adding flour or beaten egg. Flour with butter may be added in the form of brown or white roux (see Roux), or may be simply dusted in by means of a dredger (see Fig. 462). This latter principle is not often adopted after the Sauce has undergone its final straining, as the flour is liable to render the Sauce somewhat lumpy. Eggs for thickening should be beaten thoroughly and rapidly, and for this purpose it is advisable to use a cop- per egg-bowl (see Fig. 463) and a one-handed whisk (see Fig. 464). It may be a secret worth knowing that the French chef bases all his important Sauces upon a white and a brown. The white is famous for its soft character, which has gained for it the name of veloute or velvet-down, of which there are two recog- nised variations known as bechamel and German or Allemande. The brown Sauce is called Spanisli or Espagnol, and should always exhibit the flavour of roasted meat or flour. From the following long list of receipts collected from and contributed by the very best authorities in the world, it will be observed that numerous modifications are made of the original fundamental brown and white Sauces. Numerous other Sauces also will be found under special headings, such as Anchovy, Bread, Caper, &c. References to the following Sauces will be found in the receipts using them. Fig. 464. One-handeo Whisk. Savoury Sauces.—These do not include ordi- nary gravies, but are for the most part the standard Sauces of modern times. They are used for a variety of purposes, some of which are specially notified. Admiral’s Sauce (a l'Amiral).—Add to 1 breakfast-cupful of melted butter Sauce, two well pounded anchovies, four shallots chopped very fine, 1 teaspoonful of chopped capers, and a little very thinly-pared lemon-peel; put all these in a saucepan over the fire and let them simmer till the an- chovies are well blended. Pick out the lemon-peel, add the juice of one lemon, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and pour it into a sauce-tureen. Allemande Sauce.—See German Sauce. Aurora Sauce (a l’Aurore).—(1) Put the spawn of a lobster and a lump of butter into a mortar and pound them, then pass them through a line hair sieve. Prepare some brown Sauce, reduce it till it will coat a spoon, then mix with it the lobster butter and the juice of a lemon, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve the Sauce. (2) Put 4 pint of hot, highly-seasoned bechamel Sauce in a saucepan, add 1 wineglassful of mushroom liquor or ketchup, Joz. of butter, and 3 table-spoonfuls of very red Sauces—continued. tomato Sauce. Stir well over the fire for five minutes, then add six mushrooms cut into small squares, and serve. Australian Sauce.—Peel and boil two or three carrots, and boil four eggs until hard. Chop them small and put them into a stewpan with a few finely-chopped pickled cu- cumbers, 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped lean ham and chopped shallots, and 1 table-spoonful each of capers and parsley also chopped. Pour in 1 pint of stock broth, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little mushroom ketchup. Place the mixture over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Put loz. of butter into a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and stir it over the fire until browned, then mix it in with the Sauce, and boil for three minutes, stirring it all the time; it is then ready for serving. This Sauce makes an excellent accompaniment for tinned meats. Bateliere Sauce.—Put into a stewpan 1 teacupful of chopped mushrooms, with 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, shallots, and tarragon, 2 table-spoonfuls each of vinegar and sherry, two cloves, and a blade of mace. Boil the above ingredients till the moisture is almost entirely re- duced, then pour in lqt. of brown Sauce and 1 pint of broth; boil the Sauce till it will cc.at the back of a spoon, then add 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers and the same of chopped gherkins. When done, remove the Sauce from the fire, stir into it 1 table-spoonful of anchovy butter, and serve. Bavarian Sauce (a la Bavaroise).—Boil in a small sauce- pan 1 teacupful of vinegar, and when reduced to half its original quantity remove it to the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them with the reduced vinegar, and add about loz. of butter and a small quantity of horse- radish. Beat the mixture well, season it with a little salt and grated nutmeg, and stir it over a rather slow fire till thick, but it must not boil or the eggs will curdle. Pass the Sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan and mix in, small quantities at a time, 3oz. of butter. Beat the mixture over a slow fire till light and frothy, then add 3oz. of crayfish butter, and serve at once. Bearnaise Sauce (a la Bearnaise).—(1) Beat the yolks of five eggs in a saucepan, and add 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 pinch of salt; stir the eggs over a slow fire till they begin to thicken, then take them off and stir in 2 more table-spoonfuls of butter; continue stirring at the side of the fire till the butter is dissolved. Season the Sauce with a little chopped fine herbs and parsley, and pour in 1 teaspoonful of French vinegar. The Sauce is then ready for serving. (2) Peel seven or eight shallots, put them in a mortar, and pound to extract the juice. Put the yolks of five eggs into a saucepan, and stir them over a slow fire till quite thick, then add an equal quantity of meat glaze, the juice of the shallots, the strained juice of two lemons, and 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar. When thoroughly hot (the Sauce should not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle), pour the Sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. (3) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of minced shallots into a stew- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls each of plain and tarragon vinegar; boil till the moisture is reduced to one-third its original quantity, then stir in 1 teacupful of white Sauce and the yolks of three eggs, one at a time, beating each one well in before adding another. Take the stewpan oil' the fire at once so that the eggs may not boil, or they will curdle. Add gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of butter broken into small pieces, and strain the Sauce through a silk sieve. It is then ready for serving. Bechamel Brown Sauce.—Chop some lean veal, bacon, one carrot, one turnip, and two small onions; put them into a saucepan with a small lump of butter and fry them till nicely browned, then dredge in a little flour and fry that as well. Moisten the onions, &c., with some broth and \ pint of cream, add three cloves, one bay-leaf, a bunch of parsley and thyme, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt. When on the point of boiling move the Sauce to the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. C