397 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. (2) Peel and blanch six large onions, slice them, put them into a saucepan with \ pint of milk, and boil them till tender. Drain all the milk from the onions and pass them through a fine hair sieve; put the onions into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of white Sauce, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity. Mix 1 tea- cupful of cream with the Sauce, season it with salt, pepper, and a little caster sugar, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. It is then ready for serving. (3) Peel and blanch three large onions in boiling water, put them into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the fire, but do not brown them; then cover them with milk, and boil them till tender. Pass the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, mix with it suffi- cient cream to make a thin puree, and season with a little sugar and salt. When ready to serve, warm the Sauce in the bain-marie. (4) Peel and blanch six large onions, cut them into slices, put them into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and a little salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire till soft but do not colour them. Stir in with the onions two mashed baked potatoes, 4oz. of Hour, 1 pint of broth, and 4 pint of cream. Stir the Sauce by the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then strain it, and serve. (5) Peel and cut into slices six large onions, put them into a saucepan with a large lump of butter, and fry till lightly browned; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, 4 pint of half-glaze, and 1 \ breakfast-cupfuls of brown gravy, and simmer gently till the onions are cooked; then season the Sauce with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and warm it up again when ready to serve. Spanish. Sauce (a l’Espagnole).—(1) Prepare a brown roux in a saucepan with fib. of butter and 4 teaspoonfuls of flour by stirring it over the fire in one direction with a wooden spoon till coloured; then leave it in the saucepan till cool. Pour in with the roux 1 pint of clear broth, stirring it gently at the same time till smooth. Let the Sauce simmer gently for an hour, skimming it often to clear it, then boil it quickly over the fire till reduced a little, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Stir the Sauce in a basin till nearly cold, then put in a small piece of butter. (2) Put the remains and trimmings of veal, game or poultry, or some of both, into a stewpan with three or four slices of ham and 2 pints of water, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer gently for one hour, skimming often; then put in a bunch of sweet herbs, a sliced onion, two shallots, a clove of garlic, a blade of mace, one bay-leaf, two finely-chopped carrots, and half a head of celery ; add 1 teacupful of raisin wine and 1 table-spoonful each of ketchup and soy, thicken the Sauce with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it simmer gently for an hour. When strained, the Sauce is ready for serving. (3) Fry together in a saucepan two or three thin slices of ham, one small onion, an equal quantity of carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, three or four cloves, and several peppercorns ; when nicely browned, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, and boil all gently for twenty minutes. Mix in | table-spoonful of red-currant jelly with the above in- gredients, and the juice of one lemon. When the Sauce is strained, it is ready for use. (4) Cut into moderate-sized pieces some veal and trimmings and giblets of fowl, put them into a saucepan with a slice of ham and a little butter, and fry them till brown ; then pour in \ pint each of white wine and stock, and the juice of a lemon. Let the Sauce simmer by the side of the fire for a few hours, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, put it in the saucepan again, and thicken it over the fire with a little meat glaze. It is then ready. (5) Put into a saucepan one carrot, one onion, one shallot, and four or five mushrooms that have been washed, peeled, and cut into small pieces, add 2oz. of butter, and try them till nicely browned ; then dredge in a little flour, Sauces—continued. not quite 2oz., and stir over the fire for a few minutes; pour in 1 pint of brown stock, and boil all for ten minutes. Add with the above ingredients 1 teacupful of tomato Sauce and 1 wineglassful of sherry, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the Sauce a few minutes longer; then skim oft' the fat, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. It is then ready for use. (6) Mix 1 pint of raw strong mirepoix with 2oz. of good fat. Mix with this compound 4oz. of flour, moisten with lgall. of white broth, and stir well; then add, if convenient, some baked veal- and ham-bones, and boil for three hours; remove the fat very carefully, rub the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and keep it for cooking purposes. (7) Put into a saucepan with a piece of butter some small pieces of ham, a carrot, three or four shallots cut into small pieces, a blade of mace, two cloves, a piece of bay-leaf, and seven or eight small mushrooms, and fry them for a few minutes over a slow fire. When they begin to take colour, pour in half a bottle of Madeira, add a small lump of sugar, and boil the wine till reduced to half its original quantity; then put in I 4 teacupfuls of Spanish Sauce and some trimmings of game, and let them simmer gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Skim the Sauce, add more seasoning if required, and mix it with the hash. (8) Melt a small lump of butter in a large saucepan, cover the bottom with a layer of sliced onions, and over these put 241 b. of veal and 41b. each of beef and ham all cut into small pieces; moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of clear stock, and place the saucepan over the fire. Stir the meat constantly till nicely browned, then put in a carrot cut into small pieces, a bay-leaf, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley tied together, two or three cloves, and peppercorns and salt to taste. Cover the whole with stock, put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents simmer gently at the edge of the fire for three or four hours. Put jib. of butter into a stewpan with 1 teacup- ful of flour, and stir them over the fire till well browned ; then strain in the stock, and keep it simmering at the side of the fire for an hour longer, skimming it occasionally. Turn the Sauce into a basin, and stir it often until quite cold. It should be kept for use in a cool larder. (9) Put three sliced onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry them lightly; then put in 61b. of fish— pike, gurnet, and whiting—and 1 pint of French white wine, and boil quickly till the wine is reduced to a glaze ; then pour in 5qts. of fish broth, add three carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 1 pinch of mignonette pepper. When boiling, move the Sauce to the side of the fire, and simmer till the fish is cooked. Take the fish out. Put fib. of clarified butter into a stewpan with the same weight of flour, and stir it over the fire till browned ; mix a little of the above liquor with it, boil it for a few minutes, then mix it with the remainder. Let the Sauce clarify on the side of the stove, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in a jar till required for use. Supreme Sauce (ft la Supreme).—(1) Mix with 1 pint of white Sauce three chopped mushrooms, the juice of half a lemon, and loz. of butter; stir over the fire while boiling for ten minutes. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and use it when required. _ (2) Melt fib. of butter in a saucepan, then mix with it eight or nine white peppercorns and a few parsley-stalks; sift in 2oz. of Vienna flour, and stir over the fire for ten minutes; then pour in 14 pints of chicken broth, and stir it till it has well boiled; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, season to taste with salt, and, if possible, add some well-washed trimmings of white mushrooms. Just before re- moving the Sauce from the fire, stir in 4 pint of cream. Pass the Sauce through a broth-napkin, and serve it. (3) Put lqt. of veloute Sauce into a saucepan with 1 pint of essence of chicken and 1 teacupful of essence of mushrooms. When boiling, move the Sauce to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour; then stir it over the fire till of a thick creamy consistency. Strain the Sauce through a broth-napkin into a bain- marie, and pour a few drops of chicken broth on the top, to prevent a skin forming.