THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 376 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salsify—continued. little lemon-juice, a few drops of essence of ■ anchovies, and the beaten yolk of one egg; add the Salsify, turn all into a baking-dish, cover the top with breadcrumbs, put a few small lumps of butter about, and bake it for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve while hot. Stewed Salsify.—(1) Scrape the roots of Salsify and throw them out of hand into acidulated water to prevent them turning colour. Boil them till tender, strain off the water, cut them into pieces |in. long, and throw them into a saucepan. Add I table-spoonful each of sugar and butter, 1 teacupful each of vinegar and water, and pepper and salt to taste, and toss over the fire for a little while. Thicken the sauce with a liaison of yolk of egg, turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Scrape the roots till white, then soak them in cold water. Boil the Salsify till tender, drain off the water, pour over it some milk, add a piece of butter and salt, and thicken with a little flour. Stir the mixture over the fire till cooked, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Scrape ami prepare the Salsify, cut it into slices, and boil them. Put them, when nearly done, into a saucepan with milk, add salt and pepper to taste, and continue to cook until quite tender. Serve as required. Stewed Salsify with Veloute Sauce.—Scrape the roots of Salsify and throw them into acidulated water. When a sufficient quantity has been scraped, put them in a sauce- pan with a piece of butter, the juice of one lemon, a little salt, and water to cover them well. Let them stew gently till tender, then drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour over either some veloute or Spanish sauce, and serve. SALT (Fr. Sel; Ger. Salz; Ital. Sale; Sp. Sal).— Not only for its seasoning qualities, but also for its chemical virtues, Salt (chloride of sodium) is invaluable in combination with the food of human beings. “ Common Salt,” says the Lancet, “ is the most widely distributed substance in the body; it exists in every fluid and in every solid, and not only is it everywhere present, but, in almost every part, it constitutes the largest portion of the ash when any tissue is burnt. In particular it is a constant constituent of the blood, and it maintains in it a proportion that is almost wholly independent of the quantity that is consumed with the food. The blood will take up) so much and no more, however much we may take with our food; on the other hand, if none be given the blood parts with its natural quantity slowly and unwillingly. Under ordi- nary circumstances a healthy man loses daily about twelve grains by one channel or the other, and if he is to maintain his health that quantity must be introduced. Common Salt is of immense importance in the processes ministering to the nutrition of the body, for not only is it the chief Salt in the gastric juice, and essential for the formation of bile, and may hence be reasonably regarded as of high value in digestion, but it is an important agent in promoting the processes of diffusion, and therefore of absorption. Direct experiment has shown that it promotes the decomposition of albumen in the body, acting prob- ably by increasing the activity of the transmission of fluids from cell to cell. Nothing can demonstrate its value better than the fact that if albumen without Salt is introduced into the intestine of an animal, no portion of it is absorbed, while it all quickly disappears if Salt be added.” In barbarous times the most horrible of punishments, entailing certain death, was the feeding of culprits on food without Salt; and in the experiments of the French Academicians, flesh deprived of its saline constituents by being washed with water lost its nutritive piower, and animals fed on it soon died of starvation. There was plenty of nutritious matter in the food, but there was no medium for its solution and absorption, and hence it was useless. The value of Salt has always been recognised, and its presence on the table endowed with much dignity. In Salt—continued. olden times the dish containing the Salt was placed in a position midway between, or dividing the master of the house, his family and honoured guests, from the servants and retainers. To sit above or below the Salt was a mark of distinction. The dish or pan in which the Salt was served was originally termed a saliere, from which the word cellar originated. To speak of a Salt-cellar, therefore, is some- what of a misnomer. There are two kinds of Salt commonly used for culinary pmrposes, the one being coarser than the other in grain. The coarser, known by the general term of kitchen Salt, is sold in large blocks; the finer kind, known as table Salt, being sold in packets or bags. With this latter the tables are supplied, the kitchen Salt being generally used for seasoning and cookery. Powdered rock-salt is some- times used as a garnish. As a matter of convenience Salt is sometimes mixed or flavoured with various herbs or splices. Celery Salt is Salt flavoured with the essence or powdered seeds of celery; spiced Salt is prepared as follows: Take 2 drachms each of basil, thyme, and bay-leaf, all of which have been dried in an oven, take also 2 drachms each of mace, allspice, and white pepper, and 4 drachms each of cloves and grated nutmeg. Put all these into a mortar and pound them as fine as possible. Put lib. of white Salt into the oven till it is thoroughly dry, then pound it as fine as possible, and mix with it very tho- roughly the pounded spices. Store it in a tin canister with a closely-fitting lid. SALTING.—iSee Pickle. SALT MARSH TERRAPIN—See Terrapins. SALTPETRE—Another word for nitrate of potash. The meaning of the term is sal—salt, and petra—a rock, as though it were rock salt, or salt from a rock. It is much used in pickling meats, and gives to them the red appearance which is sometimes so much coveted. SAMP.—An American food consisting essentially of coarsely-ground maize, cooked or softened by boiling; the word Samp being a corruption of the American Indian word saupac—made soft. The following are two good receipts for its use, taken from an American source: Samp Pancakes.—Boil 1 pint of Samp, and when cooked drain it and mix with it l pint of white corn-meal, 1 loz. of fresh butter, and a small quantity of salt. Leave the mixture until cold, then stir into it two well-beaten eggs, and form the mixture into round thin cakes. Grease a gridiron, lay the cakes on it, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, serve the cakes with butter. Samp Pudding.—Put lqt. of milk into an enamelled sauce- pan over the fire, and when it boils put into it lib. of butter, 6 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a moderate quan- tity each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg. Stir the mixture well, and leave it until cold. Beat ten eggs well together with 14 pints of cold boiled Samp, and stir them into the above mixture. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake for an hour. It may be served either hot or cold. SAMPHIRE (Fr. Bacile; Ger. Meerfenchel).—This plant (Crithmum maritimum) grows wild amongst the rocks and along the sea coasts of this and almost every other country. It has a spicy taste, slightly salt, on which account it has been held in great repute as an ingredient in salads, and was declared by Gerard to be “the pleasantest sauce, most familiar, and best agreeing with man’s body for digestion of meats.” Samphire is an um- j belliferous plant, but may be readily distinguished from others by the succulent, tapering leaves (see Fig. 446). These should be picked in May; that is before the