TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 256 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of eight eggs and 1 pint of cream. Strain the Pudding through a line hair sieve, and when nearly cold mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy; pour it into a mould, and set it in a cool place for an hour or two. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Put 1 teacupful of water in a small saucepan with 1 teacupful of lemon-juice and 1 teacupful of sugar; add the thinly-pared yellow rinds of two lemons that have been partially boiled and cut into thin shreds, and simmer until the peel is quite tender. Let the sauce get cold, and then turn the Pudding out of the mould on to a dish. When ready to serve, pour the sauce over it in such a way that the shreds remain on the top. Clifton Pudding.—Put 4oz. of ground rice into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, and boil gently until the mixture begins to thicken, stirring continually. Put the yolks of six eggs into a bowl, whisk them well with the whites of two eggs, and add gradually 4oz. of finely- crushed loaf sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, 3oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Remove the ground rice mixture from the fire, and when it is cool stir in the other mixture; pour the whole into a well-buttered pie-dish, place a few slices of candied peel on the top, set the Pudding in a moderate oven, and bake for twenty or twenty-five minutes; then take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Coburg Pudding.—Peel and cut into slices enough apples to three parts lill a deep pie-dish, dredge them over with a little caster sugar, put a layer of warmed butter on the top of them, and next a layer of apricot jam or any other preserve. Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of sugar and arrow- root into a basin and work into a smooth paste by adding a little milk; mix in 1 break fast-cupful of cream and then 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, less the quantity used in the first mixing. Pour this into a saucepan and stir con- tinually over the fire until it boils; then pour it over the jam in the pie-dish. Set the Pudding in a moderate oven and bake gently for forty-five minutes; then take it out, and serve. Cold Puddings a la Diaz. -Put 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a basin, mix in two eggs and the grated rind of a quarter of a lemon, beat with a whisk for two or three minutes, set the basin on the stove, and beat vigorously for a few minutes longer. Remove the basin to the table and beat slowly for a few more minutes. Mix in 4oz. of sifted flour slowly, using a wooden spoon, and again stir for two or three minutes. Put a sheet of paper on a baking-sheet, spread the paste over to Jin. in thickness, place it in a moderate oven, and hake for a-quarter-of-an- liour. Take it out and let it cool, turn it upside-down, remove the paper, cut the paste into small dice-shaped pieces, and mix them up with loz. eacli of washed and dried currants and finely-chopped candied citron-peel. Butter six small Pudding-moulds, each holding about J J gills, dust them over inside with caster sugar, and fill them equally with the preparation. Put 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar into a basin, whisk in two eggs, beat for two or three minutes, pour in 1 pint of cold milk, strain the whole into another basin, add I teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and stir well for a minute or two. Pour this, a little at a time, over the Puddings, giving them time to absorb it; place them in a pan with warm, not boiling, water, to half the height of the moulds, and put them in a moderate oven to steam for thirty minutes. Take the Puddings out, put them in a cool place, or on the ice for an hour; then place them on a dish, pour over a fruit sauce, and serve very cold. College Puddings.—(1) Fried.—Grate 2lb. of crumb of bread into a basin, and mix with it ill), of finely-chopped beef-suet, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, ‘2oz. of thinly-shred candied citron- and orange-peels, Jib. of sugar, and half a grated nutmeg. Beat the whites and yolks of three eggs separately, and mix them with the dry ingredients. Divide the mixture into equal portions, and shape them like eggs. Put Jib. of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the Puddings and fry them a delicate brown, turning them two or three Puddings—continued. times. The fire should be rather slow, so that the Puddings will cook through. Drain them, arrange them on a hot dish that has been garnished with a fancy dish-paper, Fig. 319. College Puddings. and serve them with a sauceboatful of brandy sauce in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 319). (2) Boiled.—Use the same ingredients as for No. 1. Butter the insides of some cups or dariole moulds, and fill with the mixture. Cover the tops with floured cloths, and boil for one hour. Turn them out on to a hot dish, dust over the tops with caster sugar, and pour round a good wine sauce. Conservative Pudding.—Put 3oz. of sponge cakes and 2oz. each of macaroons and ratafias in a basin, pour over them J pint of thick cream, and leave them until well soaked. Afterwards well beat up the cakes, and work in, one at a time, the yolks of six eggs; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and mix in J wineglassful of brandy. Butter a plain mould, ornament the interior with sultanas, pour in the mixture, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over Abe mould ; stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Care must be taken not to let the water get into the mould. When cooked, turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of brandy sauce. Constance Pudding.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat it to a cream, and then add, in the order given, working one ingredient well in before another is added, the following: Jib. each of sugar and flour, four eggs, 2oz. or 3oz. of finely-chopped candied peel or fruits, and lastly the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Decorate a well-buttered plain mould with pre- served or candied fruits, pour in the mixture, set the mould on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for about three hours; then turn it out on to a dish, pour over a little hot wine sauce, and serve at once. Cornwall Pudding.—Whisk five eggs thoroughly together with 1 pint of thin cream, and strain them into a basin that has been well buttered. Tie a cloth over the basin, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Mix in a saucepan with 1J wineglassfuls of white wine the strained juice and thinly-shred peel of a small lemon and 3oz. of caster sugar, and boil until reduced to a thin syrup. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a deep dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Cottage Pudding.—(1) Put 2J table-spoonfuls of mixed butter and lard into a basin, and warm and boat to a cream with 1 breakfast-cupful of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Stir in one well-beaten egg and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in I breakfast-cupful of milk, and add a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put 1 pint of Hour into a basin and work into it 2 table-spoonfuls of cream of tartar; add it to the other mixture, stir well, put the whole into a buttered basin or mould, and bake in a quick oven for forty-five minutes. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour round or over a little sweet or wine sauce, and serve. (2) Whisk live eggs in a basin, and mix in ljlb. of flour and sufficient milk to make a thick batter; add 8oz. of washed and dried currants, lib. of stoned raisins, a little grated nutmeg, and enough sugar to sweeten. Turn the