THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 237 Potatoes—continued. them into a paste with beaten egg. Chop up very finely some remains of cold meat, mix with it a moderate quantity of chopped pickles, and season with salt and pepper. Dredge flour over a table or paste-board, put tiie Potato paste on it, roll it out, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter about 2in. in diameter. Put a small quantity of the meat on half of each round, and double the other half over, pressing it well round the edges. Put a large lump of lard or clarified butter in a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire ; when it boils, put in the puffs, and fry them until nicely and equally browned. When fried, take the puffs carefully out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper over a hot dish, arrange the puffs on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Peel and wash three large-sized Potatoes, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil till they are quite soft. Drain off all the water, and mash the Potatoes with 3oz. each of caster sugar and Hour, a small lump of butter, two beaten eggs, and a little grated nutmeg to flavour. Form this paste into small cakes, put them in a frying- pan with a little butter, and fry them until they are light brown. Put them on a dish, and serve. Potato Puree.—(1) Cut 1 pint of Potatoes into pieces, and cover them with lqt. of white broth in a saucepan, passing the broth through a napkin, adding about ‘2oz. of butter and a bouquet garni. Season with J table- spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and cook well for thirty minutes; then strain the soup, add J break- fast-cupful of cream, and serve with sippets of toast. Do not let it boil again after the cream has been put in. Add one bunch of cut-up leeks fifteen minutes before serving. (2) Peel and boil the required quantity of Potatoes, and when tender rub them through a fine hair sieve; put this in a stewpan with a moderate-sized lump of butter, and a suffi- cient quantity of milk and white stock in equal proportions to bring it to the consistency of cream. Season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, and serve. Potato Quenelles.—Mash lib. of diy floury boiled Potatoes while they are still hot, mix with them 2oz. of butter, a seasoning of salt and black pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, a little chopped parsley, a small quantity of finely- minced ham, and the beaten yolks of four eggs; and when these are all well mixed, beat in tlie well-whisked whites Fig. 299. Potato Quenelles. of four eggs. Shape the mixture into quenelles with 2 teaspoons, drop them into boiling butter, and let them fry for five minutes. Drain them on paper, and serve hot on a napkin. See Fig. 299. Potato Ragoti.t.—Mash lib. of boiled floury Potatoes, make them into balls with yolk of egg, flour them, and fry them in butter. Drain off all the grease, put them on a dish, cover with brown sauce, and serve. Potato Rechauffe.—Chop some cold boiled Potatoes veiy finely, season them with salt and pepper, and moisten them with the beaten yolk of one egg and a small quan- tity of cream. Cut some thin slices of cold veal, spread a layer of the mixture on each, and roll them up tightly. Prepare some rather thin batter with beaten egg, milk, and flour. Put a large piece of lard into a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when blue smoke rises, dip Potatoes—continued. the rolls in the batter, put them in the fat, and fry until nicely browned. Drain them on a sheet of kitchen- paper in fxont of the fire, spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the rolls on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Rissoles.—(1) Mash some cold boiled Potatoes smoothly with a lump of butter and one or two well- beaten eggs, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Mould the mixture into small egg-shaped balls, roll them in grated breadcrumb, then in beaten egg, and bread- crumb them again. Put a large lump of good beef dripping into a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire until blue smoke rises; then put in the rissoles, and fry them a bright golden brown on all sides. Drain them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire, then pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Mash some cold Potatoes to a smooth paste with a lump of butter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of mixed sweet herbs, and add some flour to bind it. Roll the paste out on a floured table to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a small tin cutter. Mince some cold meat, season it well, and put a small quantity of it on half of the rounds of Potato paste; place the remaining rounds on the top of them, press them well together at the edges, and strew with vermicelli. Put a large lump of beef-dripping in a deep frying-pan, and place the pan on the fire; when boiling, put in the rounds, and fry them until nicely browned. Take them out carefully with a slice, drain them as free from fat as possible, then arrange them on a hot dish over which has been laid a lace-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. These rissoles may also be put in a baking-dish with a little butter on the top of each, and browned in the oven. Potato Rolls.—Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan with :}lb. of butter, and place it over the fire until the butter has dissolved; then move it off, and let it cool a little. Peel and boil Jib. of Potatoes until tender, then drain them well, and mash them in a basin with a wooden spoon. Stir the milk and butter into the Potatoes with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, \ table-spoonful of salt, 1 teacupful of brewers’ yeast, and sufficient flour to thicken it. Work the mixture until1 smooth, then cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in a warm place for the night. On the following morning, knead the batter with sufficient flour to make a dough, and let it rise for about three-quarters-of-an-hour longer. When well risen, place the dough on a paste-board that has been dredged over with flour, roll it out to about lin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds about 3in. in diameter with a tin paste-cutter, or if preferred a saucer may be used instead. Brush each round over with a paste-brush that has been dipped in warm butter, then double them in halves. Dredge a small quantity of flour over a baking- sheet, lay the rolls on it a short distance from each other, and let them rise for the third time in a warm place; then put them into a brisk oven, and bake for nearly fifteen minutes. When cooked, pile the rolls on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve them while very hot with butter. Potato Salad.—(1) Peel and boil the required quantity of Potatoes, but do not overcook them, as they must not break; when cold, cut them into slices. Rub a salad-bowl over with garlic, and lay the Potatoes in it. Mix J teacupful of tarragon vinegar with 1 teacupful of salad- oil, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the Potatoes ; then strew over them some parsley, tarragon, chervil, and mint, all finely minced and mixed in small quantities, and serve. (2) Cut into neat slices some rather firm cold boiled Potatoes, and arrange them in a salad-dish. Wash and bone five or six anchovies, put them in a mortar with three hard- boiled eggs, a few tarragon-leaves, and § table-spoonful of French mustard, and pound the whole until smooth. Pass the mixture through a fine sieve, and beat it well up with For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. UNI VERSIFY LIBRARY LEEDS