378 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sandwiches—continued. saucepan with 4- teacupful of good sauce, and about half that quantity of curry paste; let it simmer for five minutes, stirring it all the time, then put it into a howl, and leave it till cool. Cut some thin slices of stale bread, stamp them into rounds about the size of a crown piece, and fry them a very light brown in boiling lard or oil. Lay them on paper to drain, then put a thick layer of the cooled mixture of chopped ham and chicken between two fried rounds of bread, arrange them nicely on a dish, bake them in the oven for five minutes, and serve hot. Garnish with fried parsley. Adelaide Sandwiches. -Take Jib. of cold chicken and 2oz. of cold ham, and cut them into small squares. Mix 1 table- spoonful of curry paste with ^ teacupful of sauce in a saucepan over the fire, and when they boil mix into it the ham and chicken; take it from the fire and let it cool, cut some thin slices of stale bread, stamp them into rounds about the size of a crown piece, and fry them a very light brown in boiling lard or clarified butter. Put a layer of the mixture of chopped meat and sauce between two pieces of the fried bread. Pound some grated Par- mesan cheese and butter (equal quantities of each) to- gether, and roll it into balls nearly as large as a walnut. Put one of these balls on top of each Sandwich, lay them on a baking-sheet, and put them into a quick oven for five minutes. Serve them on a napkin. Duchess Sandwiches.—Skin and bone twelve anchovies, put half of them in a mortar with Jib. of butter, and pound them to a paste. Cut some thin slices oil' a tin-loaf, cut them into rounds with a small tin cutter, and mask them with the anchovy butter. Cut the remaining six anchovies into small pieces, and place some on the top of each round. Beat the yolks of four eggs well with 1 break- fast-cupful of plain broth, and season to taste with salt and pepper; pour it into a plain mould, cover with a sheet of paper, and stand it in a saucepan with boiling- water to three parts its height. Steam the custard until set.', then take if out of the saucepan, and let it get quite cold before turning it out of the mould. When turned out, cut the custard into thin slices, then cut them into rounds, using the same tin cutter that the rounds of bread were cut with. Put a round of the custard over each round of bread. Lay a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper over a dish, and arrange the Sandwiches on it; garnish them tastefully with neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. Indian Sandwiches.—(1) Cut into small pieces Jib. of either cooked veal, game, or chicken, four boned anchovies, and about 2oz. of lean cooked ham. Put l dessert-spoon- ful of curry powder and I teaspoonful of flour into a small saucepan, mix them smoothly with i- teacupful of milk, stir over the fire, and boil for three or four minutes ; then put in the chopped meat and anchovies, and add 1 tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, cut some rather thin slices of bread, and trim them to an equal size, removing the crusts; put them in a flat stewpan in which a lump of butter or fat has been melted, and fry them until delicately browned. Drain the pieces of bread, spread half of them with the mixture, then cover with the remaining pieces of bread. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese with 2oz. of butter, then spread it over the top slices of bread. Put the Sandwiches in a brisk oven until very hot, then arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Garnish them with fried parsley, and serve while very hot. (2) Finely mince the white flesh of some cold pheasant, a small quantity of hot pickle, four olives and anchovies, the two latter ingredients should be well washed and the anchovies boned. Mix all these ingredients together with about J teacupful of mayonnaise sauce. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, spread half of them over with the above mixture, and cover with the remaining half. Cut each slice into strips about lin. wide, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish them with parsley, and serve. Lenten Sandwiches.—(1) Scrape the skins off four or five salted anchovies, split them, remove the bones, and finely Sandwiches—continued. chop them. Put them in a basin with the chopped yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and a bunch of chopped cress, dust in some pepper and salt, and add 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil and a small quantity of vinegar. Work the above ingredients to a paste; cut some thin slices of brown bread-and-butter, spread them with a layer of the mixture, then double one slice over another. Cut the Sandwiches into fingers, arrange them on a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper that has been placed on a dish, garnish with some neat little sprigs of parsley, and serve. (2) Put the coral of two lobsters in a mortar with half their quantity of butter, and pound them. Scrape the skins off three salted anchovies, hone them, pound them, and mix them with the coral. Season the mixture to taste with salt and cayenne pepper, moisten it with 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and work it well. Cut some slices of bread-and-butter, mask them with a layer of the paste, put a lettuce-leaf on each, or some water- cress, and cover with another slice of bread-and-butter. Cut the Sandwiches into halves or fingers, arrange them on a dish-paper or folded napkin on a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Pickle Sandwiches. —Cut some pickle in very thin slices lengthwise ; lay them on slices of bread, then put a thin slice of cold roasted veal or pork on the top of that, season with pepper, salt, and mustard, and cover with another slice of bread. Cut the Sandwiches into finger lengths, arrange them on an ornamental fish-paper or a folded napkin spread over a dish, garnish with neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. Savoury Sandwiches.—Take some cold cooked ham or corned beef or tongue, having a quarter of its quantity fat; chop it up very fine, and mix with it 1 teaspoon- ful of dry mustard, I saltspoonful of salt, and sufficient cold water to form a stiff paste. Then add | teacupful of butter worked to a cream. Take some very thin slices of stale bread, spread them over with the paste, put two slices together, having the paste inside, cut into shapes or rectangular pieces, and serve. SANGAREE.—A favourite West Indian drink, almost always made there with port wine; in America, and lately in this country, however, spirits or beer is generally substituted for the wine. (1) Mix \ pint of water with 3 pints of port or sherry wine, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with grated nutmeg and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Pour the compound into a saucepan and boil it; then move it off the fire, and keep it covered until cold. Next strain it, pour it into small bottles, and keep them corked. (2) Put 1 teaspoonful of sugar into a tumbler with 1 h wineglassfuls of port wine; fill up the tumbler with pounded ice, grate a little nutmeg on the top), and it is ready for drinking. (3) Put 1 heaped teaspoonful of sugar in a tumbler, add 1 table-spioonful of cold water, and let it melt; then fill the tumbler with ale or plotter from a freshly-opened bottle, grate a little nutmeg on it, and it is ready to drink. (4) Mix 1 wineglassful of brandy, whisky, or gin, and 1 wineglassful of syrup, with § tumblerful of coarsely- piowdered ice. On this pjour | wineglassful of port wine in such a way that it will swim on the topi. Let it stand for a few seconds, and it is then ready to drink. SANITARY SOUP.—See Soups. SANTA.—The Jamaica term for shrub. SAPODILLA.—An American tree (Achras Sopot a) which bears a fruit called the Sapodilla, a plum which is about the size of an ordinary quince, having a rough, brittle, dull brown rind, the flesh being of a dull yellowish-white colour, very soft and deliciously sweet. It is eatable only when it begins to be spotted, and is much used in desserts ; sometimes called Naseberry.