198 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under thexr special heads. Pine-apples—continued. Tinned Pine-apple Cream Pie.—Strain the juice out of two tins of Pine apple into a basin, chop the fruit, and pound it; put it into a saucepan with 11, breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes; then remove it from the fire, and stir in \ pint of cream and the well beaten yolks of twelve eggs. Line some small buttered tins with pie crust, fill them with the mixture and bake. Serve either hot or cold. Tinned Pine-apple Cup.—Drain the syrup off a tin of pre- served Pine-apple, and chop the fruit into small pieces. Put the syrup into a pan with 1| pints of water, the juice of one large lemon, and |lb of crushed loaf sugar, and boil it until the sugar has well dissolved. Then put in the chopped fruit, with 2 wineglassfuls of brandy and half the quantity of curacoa; leave the mixture until slightly cooled, pour it into a glass jug, and stand it on ice. When very cold, the Pine-apple cup is ready for serving. Tinned Pine-apple Fritters.—Open a tin of preserved Pine apple, and cut each slice into small equal-sized pieces. Put 4 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin and mix it smoothly with \ breakfast-cupful of milk and two well- beaten eggs, then mix in three penny stale sponge cakes and one dozen ratafias, both finely crushed, and sweeten with about \ table-spoonful of caster sugar. Dip the pieces of Pine apple in this mixture, coating each piece well with it. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the fritters and fry them a bright golden brown. Prepare the following sauce for them: Strain the Pine-apple-juice into a small stewpan, and mix with it the juice of a small lemon which has been freed from pips, 1 wineglassful of sherry, and a small quantity of caster sugar, and place it on the fire until boiling. Mix 1 tea- spoonful of arrowroot with a small quantity of cold water, stir it in with the sauce, and continue stirring over the fire until thickened. Spread an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the fritters on it round an ornamental sauceboat containing the sauce, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. See Fig. 252. Tinned Pine-apple Fritters with Sauce.—Mix together 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, 1 small teaspoonful of baking- powder, 1 pinch of salt, two eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and 1 table-spoonful of oil or melted lard. Open two tins of Pine-apple, and dip the slices in the batter; when well coated with it, put them in a pan of boiling lard and fry them till lightly browned. Mix with the juice from the tins of Pine-apples an equal quantity of water and 1 table- spoonful of cornflour, boil the sauce, and colour it with a few drops of cochineal. Pour the sauce into a hot dish, drain the flitters, arrange them on it, and serve. Tinned Pine-apple Jelly.—Empty a tin of preserved Pine- apple into a mortar and pound it well; mix with it 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar and \ pmt of water; turn it into a saucepan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain the mixture through a jelly-bag, and mix with it 1 pint of clarified calf’s- foot jelly ami the strained juice of a lemon. Pour the whole into a mould and stand it in a cool place until set. "When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a fancy dish. Tinned Pine-apple Pudding.—(1) Put \ pint of milk in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of caster sugar and 4oz. of Pine-apples—continued. butter; boil it, then remove it from the fire, and sift in gradually 4oz. of flour. Put the saucepan on the fire again and stir the contents till they become a thick paste; take it off and mix in, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs; add 11 b. of tinned Pine-apple cut into small pieces, \ tea- cupful of the syrup, and a few' drops of essence of vanilla. Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth, and add them very gently to the mixture. Butter a plain mould, sift caster sugar over the inside, shake out the loose sugar and fill the mould with the mixture; cover the top with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and let it steam gently for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned Pine-apple and Rice.—Empty a pint tin of Pine- apple with its juice into a stewpan, and mix with it loz. of gelatine that has been soaked and strained, and 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar. Stir the whole over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved, then turn it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and set it away in a cold place. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 tea- cupful of sugar, and 1 {, pints of milk. Boil the rice until very tender, then take it oft" the fire and let it get nearly cold. When the Pine-apple jelly has set, spread the half- cold rice over the top, and leave it until quite cold. Turn the contents of the mould on to a fancy glass or china dish, and serve with whipped and sweetened cream round it. Tinned Pine-apple Sherbet.—Pour the juice off two small tins of preserved Pine apple into a basin, put the fruit in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed loaf sugar and 1 pint of water in a preserving-pan, and boil for fifteen minutes. Rub the cooked Pine-apple through a fine hair sieve and put it into the boiling syrup. Boil it for fifteen minutes longer, then take the pan off the fire, add the Pine-apple-juice, and leave till cool. Pour the mixture into a freezer and freeze it. Tinned Pine-apple Souffle.—Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, and when melted sift in gradually 3oz. of flour, and add i pint of milk. Stir them over the fire for ten minutes, then add 3oz. of caster sugar, four or five slices of tinned Pine-apple cut in small squares, and the yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Whip the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the other ingredients; turn all into a buttered sou ffld-mould, stand it in a sauce- pan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and let it steam for one hour. Boil some of the syrup of the Pine- apple till slightly reduced, mix with it loz. of loaf sugar, 1 w'ineglassful of sherry, and a few drops of cochineal to give it a delicate pink tinge. Turn the souffle on to a dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Tinned Pine-apple Toast.—Open a tin of preserved Pine- apple, drain off the syrup, and trim the pieces to a nice shape. Cut as many slices of stale sponge cake as there are pieces of Pine-apple, and trim them to the same shape and size. Put a lump of butter in a perfectly clean flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when melted put in the pieces of cake and fry them until lightly browned. Drain the slices of cake, leave them until cold, then arrange them in a circle on a fancy dish, alternating each slice