TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 271 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Puffs—con tinned. pan, and stir it over the ^fire till a smooth paste. Move the saucepan off the fire and stir in, one at a time, two whole eggs and three whites. Beat the mixture well, then drop spoonfuls of it, the size of a poulet’s egg, on slightly-greased baking-pans, and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cool, cut the Puffs open at the side, and fill them with jam or cream. PUFF PASTE.—See Paste and Pastry. PULLED BREAD.—See Bread. FUXLNA WATER.—See Aerated Water. PULQUE.—An intoxicating Mexican drink made from the American Aloe. PULSE.—A general term for leguminous plants, or their seeds, as beans, peas, &c. PUMPERNICKEL.—A sort of bread made of un- bolted rye, which forms the chief food of the Westphalian peasants. It is acid but nourishing. PUMPION.—Another name for the pumpkin. PUMPKINS.—This word is evidently derived from the Greek Pepon, signifying cooked by the sun, ripe or mellow. It was formerly known as the pompion (Cucurbita Pepo) or pumpkin gourd (see Fig. 328). There are several varieties, differing in shape and size. The Pumpkin is used for soups or stews in America, but more frequently in this country it is mixed with sliced apples, to which a little sugar and spice are added, and served under the name of Pumpkin pie. Fig. 328. Pumpkin. The melon Pumpkin is one of the largest fruits of the gourd tribe. It is roundish, often flattened at top and bottom, slightly ribbed, of a pale buff or salmon colour, and thickly netted over its surface with narrow vermicular processes. It has a peculiar flavour, resembling a mixture of carrots and turnips, and is the Potiron of the French, who use it largely in soups, and serve it mashed as a vege- table. In North America it is much used as an article of food, some of the varieties, which are yellow, green, and grey, weighing upwards of 2001b. each. Mashed Pumpkin.—fare off the rind from a large slice of Pumpkin, remove the pips, and cut it into squares; put the pieces of Pumpkin into a stewpan with a large piece of butter and a small quantity of water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew over a gentle fire until quite soft. Mash the Pumpkin with a wooden Pumpkins—continued. spoon, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, and then stir in the Pumpkin pulp, moistening with a small quantity of milk and seasoning with grated nutmeg. Stir the whole well over the fire until very hot, then pile it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Preserved Pumpkin.—(1) Allow an equal weight of Pumpkin and coarsely-crushed loaf sugar; peel the Pumpkin and scoop out the inside and seeds. Put the latter into a saucepan with some water and boil them. Cut the remainder of the Pumpkin into thin slices, place them in a preserving-pan with lib. of whole ginger to 81b. of Pumpkin, strain the seed-water over, adding more water if not sufficient to cover, and boil gently until the Pumpkin is almost tender. Then take it out of the liquor, put in the sugar, and boil until a clear syrup is obtained. Return the fruit to the pan, and boil it very gently for an- liour-and-a-half. At the end of that time remove the ginger, turn the preserve into jars, and set them in a cold place. On the following day put into each jar a round of brandied paper, cover them with parchment, and tie down. (2) Cut a fresh Pumpkin into slices, peel them, and remove the seeds. Arrange the slices of Pumpkin in a deep dish, with crushed loaf sugar between each layer, allowing lib. of sugar for each pound of fruit; pour over the strained juice of two large lemons, and let them steep for two days. At the end of that time, put the Pumpkin in a preserving-pan, with A pint of water to each Gib. of the sugar, and add the finely-shred peel of a large lemon. Boil the slices of Pumpkin until they are tender, then turn all into a bowl, cover them, and let them remain for five days. Put the slices of Pumpkin into jars ; boil the syrup up again till very thick, then skim it, and pour it in the jars. When cold, cover them with brandied papers, and tie thick brown paper closely over. Keep them in a cool dry cupboard. Pumpkin a PItalienne.—Place some slices of Pumpkin in salted water and boil them for fifteen minutes. Put a large piece of butter in a saucepan and melt it; drain the pieces of Pumpkin, put them in with the butter, adding salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Lay the slices of Pumpkin on a baking-dish, pour the butter over, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese on the top, and bake till nicely browned in the oven. Serve at once when done. Pumpkin Butter.—Bake 21b. of Pumpkin, and when soft mash it through a strainer. Mix with the mashed Pumpkin lib. of sugar, 4oz. of butter, and the thinly- shred peel of one lemon. Put it in a saucepan, and let it simmer at the side of the fire for an hour, or till it becomes thick and semi-transparent. When cool, put the Pumpkin mixture into jars, cover them with rounds of brandied paper and then with stout paper, tie them tightly down, and keep them in a dark dry place. Pumpkin Cheese.—Peel the Pumpkin and cut it into thick slices, but do not remove the seeds. Boil them until tender in a preserving-pan over a gentle fire, then turn them on to a fine hair sieve and rub them through with a wooden spoon. Measure the pulp, and for every break- fast-cupful allow f breakfast-cupful of coarsely crushed loaf sugar and A teaspoonful of ground ginger. Return the pulp to the preserving-pan with the other ingredients, and boil them whole over a gentle fire until thickly reduced, keeping it constantly stirred with a wooden spoon. Pour the mixture into some moulds, cover them with paper, tie them down, and keep them in a cool place until ready to serve, when they may be turned out of the mould on to a dish. Pumpkin Custard Pies.—Prepare a custard with one egg, t pint of milk, and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Steam sufficient Pumpkin to make 1 breakfast-cupful; when soft, mash it, and mix it with the custard, adding another egg if liked, and grating a little nutmeg over the top. Line two deep buttered tins with short paste, fill