301 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Radishes—continued. rooted, crisp, and of mild flavour. White Turnip-rooted, has a white skin, but otherwise differs very little from the red variety; it is equally good, but the colour of the latter is generally preferred. Radishes may be sent to table either quite plain or as follow: (1) Select fresh turnip Radishes, both white and red, put them into a bowl of water, and brush them well to remove all the dirt; take them out, cut off the tops of the leaves and ends of the roots, dip them again in water, put them in a cloth, shake them in this, arrange on a dish with a garnish of watercress, and serve. (2) If the Radishes are large, take three bunches; if small, four bunches, being careful to select those that are round, firm, and the reddest procurable. Cut off the stems, leaving only the two prettiest leaves on each Radish, and trim round the bottoms, taking off a little of the peel at the base. With a sharp knife cut the remaining part of the peel into five or six equal-sized leaves, beginning at the root-end and cutting towards the green stems, hut being careful not to detach the leaves. They can bo formed into any desired design by cutting them with care. Put them as done into cold water and let them remain until required. Arrange them artistically in a circle on a flat small dish, with the green leaves lying outwards, sprinkle over chopped ice, and serve. (3) Select Radishes having smooth dark skins but white inside, remove the peels, and cut them into slices. Put them into a basin, sprinkle salt over, and let them remain for five or six hours. Take them out, drain them, and they are ready for use. Boiled Radishes.—Wash and trim some Radishes, and when they are all done plunge them into a saucepan of well-salted boiling water, and boil until they are quite tender (they will take about thirty minutes). Take them out, drain them, put them on a dish, pour over melted butter or butter sauce, and serve. Boiled Radish-Leaves.—Wash and pick over some Radish leaves, chop off the thickest of the stems, put them into a basin of cold water, and let them soak for half-an-hour or so. Take them out, drain them as much as possible, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, put in a piece of common soda about the size of a pea, and boil for about half-an-hour. Take them out, drain them, chop them up, and serve. These greens are a good substitute for spinach-greens when the latter cannot be obtained, and should be served with roasted ham or boiled pig’s head. Pickled Radisli-Pods.—Put the required quantity of young Radish-pods into a saucepan of well-salted water and let them remain for ten or twelve hours, then take them out and drain. Place the saucepan on the fire, boil the salted water, turn the pods into a jar or pot, pour the boiling water over them, and let them stand for a day or so with the jar closely covered. Continue in this way until the pods are perfectly green, put them out on to a sieve, and drain them quite dry. Put a sufficient quantity of vinegar, using white wine vinegar for preference, into a saucepan with a seasoning of long pepper, ginger, mace, and horse- radish, pour it when boiling over the pods in the jar, and cover it; when the liquor is cold or nearly so, strain it back again into the saucepan, boil it up, and pour it once more over the pods. Cover and tie down the jar, place it in a cool place, and the Radish-pods will be ready for use in a few days. Radish-Leaves in Salad.—Pick over some Radish-leaves, selecting the best, which throw into a large bowl of water; immerse them two or three times with the hands, then drain them thoroughly. Mop the leaves with a cloth till almost dry, and put them in a salad-bowl. Sprinkle some chopped leaves of chives over the salad, pour over a plain dressing of oil and vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper, and serve. Radish-Pods in Salad.—Procure some rat-tail Radish-pods that have been gathered when they are only half grown. Cut them lengthwise, put them into a basin of strongly Radishes—continued. salted water, and let them soak for half-an-hour. Boil four potatoes, and when cold cut them into thin slices; arrange them in a salad-bowl, drain the pods, add them, also some pickled shallots, and a few capers. Mix together in equal quantities some oil and vinegar, season it with salt anil pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. Radish Salad.—Scrape four large Radishes, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a salad-bowl. Peel and slice a moderate-sized cucumber and put it in with the Radishes. Mix in equal quantities some salad-oil and vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and pour the mixture over the salad. Sprinkle some chopped capers and herbs over the salad, and serve. Radish Sauce.—Select the required quantity of black winter Radishes, and peel and grate them. Season with salt and pepper, and mix with them a sufficient quantity of salad-oil and vinegar to make a smooth creamy sauce. When well mixed, the sauce is ready for use. Stewed Radishes. -Pick and scald some young Radishes. Cut them into halves or quarters, and boil them in stock with a slice of bacon. Let them boil only a very short time, take them out, drain them, and put them over the fire with some good veal gravy or consomme and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them stew in this till they are a good colour and the gravy thick; they are then ready for serving. RAGLAN PUDDING.—See Puddings. _ A RAGOUTS.—The literal meaning of this term is any- thing that restores the appetite, encouraging the epicure to continue his feast, even though the requirements of nature are satisfied. In this sense it is applied to those famous French stews which abound in aromatic spices and wines, and which are commonly served after the solid courses are disposed of. In addition to the numerous receipts given under special headings, such as Chicken, Lamb, Mutton, &c., the following receipts will be found useful: Dried Powder for Ragoht.—Dry well before the fire Aoz. of salt, loz. each of dried mushrooms and truffles, the grated peels of half a lemon and half a Seville orange, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, ^oz. each of pepper and mace, and drachm of cayenne. When these are thoroughly dry pound them very fine, sift the powder through a fine sieve, bottle it, and cork well till required for use. Ragodt a la Chambord.—This is prepared as for Ragout A LA FlNANClEBE (No. 1), adding 1 pint of reduced Madeira, and mixing it well with the sauce. Soft roes of carp, crayfish-tails, and a little essence of anchovy must also be added. Ragout a la Financiere. -(1) Put the required number of cocks’ combs into a cloth or towel, sprinkle them well with salt, take up the cloth by its four corners, and dip the part with the cocks’ combs into a saucepan of boiling water. Let the cocks’ combs remain in the boiling water for a minute, take them out, drain, and toss and shake them well so as to remove the outside skin. If the skins will not come off, repeat the operation, taking great care not to let the combs get firm, for if so they will not whiten in cooking. When all are skinned, take them out, and with a sharp knife ] ieel the small black points to extract the blood; put them into a saucepan of water at the side of the fire and let them remain for a couple of hours, keeping the water at such a temperature that the hand can be borne in it, or about blood heat; this will draw out the blood. Take them out, blanch them, put them into a saucepan with a preparation made of butter, salt, water, and a thin slice of lemon, trying them fre- quently to prevent their being too much done. Put the required quantity of cocks’ kidneys or kernels and fat livers into a saucepan and cook them, taking care that the water does not boil, otherwise the kidneys will burst and spoil. Put them into the saucepan with the cocks’ combs, add a few eggs that have been boiled only suffi- ciently to take off the shells, and keep the whole hot