THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 314 Ratafia—continued. cherries or apricots and a little mace, hottle, ami cork securely. (6) Put into a stone jar or hottle lib. of wormwood, 2oz. of juniper-berries, Joz. of cinnamon, and 1 drachm of angelica root, all bruised in a mortar; pour in 4Jqts. of proof sjm'its of wine, and let them macerate for from three to five weeks. Pour off the spirits, add 4 pint of water to the ingredients in the jar, and leave it for a few days; pour off all the liquor, add it to the spirits together with 1 4oz. of orange-flower water and lOoz. of sugar, filter, and bottle. In preparing these liqueurs, should any peel such as lemon, orange, &c., be used, it must be carefully peeled or rubbed off with lumps of sugar; and all seeds and woods must be bruised before infusion. Ratafia Cream.—(1) Pour 4 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, add two bay-leaves and a small quantity of essence of Ratafia, and boil up once; remove the bay- leaves, and add the yolks of four eggs beaten up with 4 table-spoonfuls of cream and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Put the saucepan at the side of the fire, and stir the contents well in one direction until the liquor thickens, taking care not to boil, but only to simmer. Turn it out on to a glass dish, and garnish when cold with slices of candied fruits and Ratafias (see Fig. 367); or it may be used as an ingredient in preparing other disbes. (2) Put 4lb. of Ratafias into a saucepan, and add the thin rind of a Seville orange, 1 wineglassful of Ratafia, 5oz. of crushed loaf sugar, the yolks of seven eggs, and pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk. Put the saucepan on the lire, and stir well until the liquor thickens; then pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix in 2oz. of dissolved gelatine, 1 breakfast-cupful of well- whipped cream, 2oz. each of preserved ginger, cherries, and orange, and half that quantity of candied lemon-peel, all cut up small. Put the mixture into .a mould packed in ice, and let it set. Turn it out when ready, and serve. Ratafia Cream-Ice.—(1) Put 8oz. of crushed Ratafias into a saucepan, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Ratafia cream (No. 1), add the yolks of six eggs and a small quantity of sugar, and stir well over the fire until the mixture is quite smooth and has the appearance of custard. Pass it through a fine sieve into a freezer, work it well, turn it into a mould packed in ice, and let it remain until wanted. The Rata- fias should be crushed as finely as possible. (2) Put 2oz. of crushed Ratafias into a saucepan, mix in the yolks of two eggs, Jib. of sugar, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Ratafia cream, and a little milk. Stir over the lire until the mixture has the consistence of a custard, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Let it cool, and put it into the freezer. When it has frozen sufficiently, mix in 2oz. more of the Ratafias, veil pounded and rubbed through a sieve, add 1 wineglassful of Ratafia or noyau, pour the mixture into a mould packed in ice, and let it get firm. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Blanch twelve bitter almonds, and pound them to a smooth paste in a mortar, moistening them with a few drops of water; then pound in with them 2oz. of loaf sugar, and stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, and let it boil gently for a few minutes; then add it to 14 pints more cream, and strain it. Work the mixture in a freezing-box till nearly frozen, then pack it up in a mould, cover closely, and bury it for an hour or two in pounded ice and salt. 4\ hen ready to serve the ice, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and turn the ice on to a dish. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Ratafia—continued. Ratafia Balls.—(1) Blanch Jib. of bitter and 2oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar with 4oz. of caster sugar, and beat them well. Mix with the almonds fib. of caster sugar and the whites of two eggs, and work the mixture to a paste. Divide the paste into small portions, and roll them into balls. Spread wafer-paper over some baking- sheets, lay the balls on it, and bake them gently. When done, leave the balls to cool before putting them away. (2) Blanch 6oz. of bitter and 3oz. of sweet almonds, and pound them to a paste in a mortar together with the whites of three eggs and Hlb. of powdered white sugar. Make the paste into balls about the size of an olive, lay them on a wafer-paper, and bake them on tin plates in a slow oven. Ratafia Pudding. (Baked).—(1) Put lqt. of cream into a saucepan, sprinkle in 4lb. of dry sponge cakes, well crushed, and boil for about half-an-hour; add 3oz. or4oz. of butter, 4oz. of sugar, 1 wineglassful of wine, and a little grated nutmeg to flavour, and stir well over the fire for a few minutes; then turn into a basin to cool. When it is nearly cold add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and 2oz. of almonds, blanched and pounded with a little brandy or lemon-juice, and mix all thoroughly. Pour the mixture into a pie- dish, sift over a little sugar, put it into a sharp oven, and bake until done. Take it out, and serve. (2) Put 4lb. of sponge cake into a well-buttered dish, cut it across, dredge it over with Jib. of Ratafias crushed in a mortar, pour over a small quantity of Ratafia, or sherry wine, and let it soak for about half-an-hour. Cover the whole with a layer of any fruit preserve, and pour over the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two well whisked together with 2oz. of sugar and a little grated nutmeg or cinnamon, or any other flavouring. Put a few whole Ratafias on the top, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When done, serve either hot or cold. (3) Put a couple of sponge cakes at the bottom of a pudding-dish, pour over them sufficient sherry to soak them well, and add to each table-spoonful of sherry 4 tea- spoonful of Ratafia. When the cakes are well soaked, put over them a layer of two kinds of jam. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, mix with them | pint of milk, sweeten and flavour to taste, and pour it into the dish over the preserve. Put 2oz. of Ratafias on top, and bake for a-quarter-of an-hour. Fig. 268. Ratafia Pudding. (4) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan over the fire with two laurel-leaves; when it comes to the boil, take the laurel-leaves out, break into the cream Jib. of Naples biscuits, and stir in Jib. of butter and a little grated nutmecr. Take it from the fire and let it cool. W hen it is almost cold, stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of sherry and loz. of.sweet almonds blanched and grated fine. Pour the pudding into a pudd ing - dish, lay over the top 2oz. of Ratafias soaked m a little cream, grate a little white sugar on top, and bake for hall- an-hour. . , (5) Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar with 2oz. of Ratafias, and pound them, adding a little rose-water. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two with loz. of powdered white sugar; add this to.the pounded almonds, and mix; then by degrees stir in 2 wineglassfuls of white wine and 1 pint of rich cream. Line s, 6cc., referred to, see under their special heads.