TUB ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY,. 261 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 4c., referred to, see under their special heads, Puddings—continued. spoonful of sugar; pour this gently on the breadcrumbs, so as not to disturb the jam, grate a little nutmeg on the top, and bake for thirty minutes. Hunter’s Pudding.—Trim the skin off Jib. of beef-suet, and mince it finely; put it in a basin and mix with it Jib. of flour, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, Jib. of stoned and chopped raisins, the grated rind of one small lemon or half a large one, and J table-spoonful of powdered Jamaica peppers; then add a small quantity of salt. Well beat six eggs with 1 wineglassful of brandy, pour them over the above ingredients, and mix all together with sufficient milk to make a stiff batter. Rinse out a stout Pudding-cloth in boiling water, spread it over a basin, and dredge over with Hour. Pour the Pudding mixture on to the cloth and tie it up securely, but allowing room for it to swell; plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for eight hours. More boiling'water must be poured into the saucepan as the quantity diminishes, as the Pud- ding must be kept well covered. When cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with any kind of sweet sauce, either in a sauceboat or poured over it. Hunting Pudding.—Beat four eggs well, and stir them into J pint of cream; then mix them gradually with Jib. each of flour, chopped suet, and washed and dried currants, 2oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, loz. of chopped orange- peel, ‘2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and J wineglassful of brandy. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, then turn the whole into a well-buttered basin, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for an-hour and-a-half. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a dish, and serve. Ice Pudding.—Put into a freezer lqt. of clarified syrup and the strained juice of four lemons. When nearly frozen, add ljoz. of pistachio-nuts blanched and split lengthwise, and essence of citron to taste; let it freeze completely, put it into a mould, and let it stand on ice till required for table. Iced Cabinet Pudding.—Cut in slices of a moderate thick- ness some sponge cakes, also some preserved pine apple, ginger, apricots, and pears, all in equal quantities. Fill a plain Pudding-mould with .alternate layers of the above ingredients, strewing between each layer a few raisins and currants, pour over these ingredients a sufficient quantity of wine to moisten the cake, and leave them for an hour. Soak loz. of gelatine in cold water, then strain it into a basin, and add the beaten yolks of four eggs, 4oz. of caster sugar, 3oz. of grated chocolate, and 1J pints of milk; stand the basin in a bain-marie, and stir the mixture until thickened. Pour the hot custard over the contents of the mould, and cover it securely. When the contents are cool, bury it in pounded ice and salt for seven or eight hours. Afterwards dip the mould into hot water, quickly remove it again, wipe it, turn the Pudding on to a fancy dish, garnish with crofltons of red currant jelly, and serve. Iced Pudding.—(1) Prepare a custard with 1 pint of cream, the yolks of twelve eggs, and 12oz. of crushed loaf sugar. Mix in 1 wineglassful of maraschino cordial, freeze until quite stiff, add ljoz. each of preserved dried cherries, pine-apple, peal’s, and citron, all cut into very small pieces, and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract; stir well and freeze again. Have ready a melon-shaped mould packed in ice and salt, fill it with the mixture, cover it over, pack more ice on top, and let it remain for two hours. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, cover it with a mixture of the whites of six eggs whipped to a stiff froth and lightly mixed in with 6oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar, sprinkle over a few pistachios chopped very fine, and serve at once. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of plombiere cream ice into the freezer, and when it is nearly set add 1 breakfast- cupful of well-whipped cream, 2oz. of diavolini, and Jib. each of dried cherries and apricots cut up very small. Put the mixture into a mould, pack in ice, and when firm and set turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Iced Swiss Pudding.—Cut into small pieces an equal quan- tity of tinned pine apple and preserved ginger, and allow a third of the quantity of dried currants. Mix these ingre- Fuddings—continued. dients in a basin, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of rum or maraschino, and let them soak for three or four hours. Strain the juice from the pine apple, and mix it smoothly with 6oz. of cornflour, 6oz. of moist sugar, and the well- beaten yolks of seven or eight eggs; then stir in gradually 1 pint of boilings cream. Stand the basin in a bain- marie, stir the contents until thickened, and then take it out. When the mixture has cooled, turn it into a freezer, and work it until frozen. Whip J pint of cream to a stiff snow together with the ’white of an egg, and add it with the fruit to the frozen mixture. Strew some currants in a mould, fill it with the above mixture, cover closely, and pack in ice. The Pudding should be left in the ice for at least four hours. Before serving, dip the mould into hot water, quickly taking it out again, wipe it, and turn the Pudding on to a fancy or glass dish. Imperial Pudding.—Finely chop 4oz. of beef-suet, and mix with it 4oz. of grated breadcrumb, 2oz. of ground rice, J teaspoonful of baking-powder, and the grated rind of one lemon. Mix thoroughly, and moisten with two well- beaten eggs and a small quantity of milk. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, fix a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and steam the contents for an-hour- and-a-lialf. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the mould on to a dish, and serve with lemon sauce. Indian Pudding.—Spread a little butter over the bottom of a saucepan, pour in lqt. of milk or water, and mix in 6oz. of corn-meal. Cover the saucepan, set it at the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for an hour or so. Remove the saucepan from the side of the fire, work in 5oz. of butter, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, six well-beaten eggs, and 1 teacupful of molasses. Pour the mixture into a basin or mould, put it in a moderate oven, bake for half-an-hour, and serve. Italian Pudding.—Line a pie-dish with rich puff paste; at the bottom put a layer of seven or eight apples, peeled, cored, and cut into slices, and on tlie top of them a layer of dates cut in slices, lib. of stoned raisins, and 3oz. or 4oz. of candied peel, also cut up, all intermixed. Sprinkle over a little ground spice and sufficient sugar to sweeten, pour over a mixture made with five or six eggs beaten into 1 pint of cream and enough of the crumb of rolls to thicken it to the required consistency, grate over a little nutmeg, put the Pudding into a moderate oven, and bake to a light delicate brown. Take it out when done, and serve. Jenny Lind Pudding.—Cut a dozen small sponge cakes into slices, and arrange them at the bottom of a pie-dish intermixed with a dozen each of cocoa-nut cakes and macaroons. Pour over lqt. of custard flavoured with 1 teaspoonful of extract of lemon or 2 table-spoonfuls of wine, sprinkle over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of freshly -grated cocoanut, and serve. Juke’s Pudding.—Finely chop 6oz. of beef-suet and mix with it 6oz. of grated breadcrumb, 3oz. of sugar, and two eggs well beaten together with 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy. When well incorporated, turn the mixture into a buttered Pudding-basin, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve with a wine sauce poured over it. Junior United Pudding.—Cut Jib. of sponge cake two days old into slices Jin. thick, and spread them with butter, allowing 3oz. of butter for them. Well butter a plain tin mould that will hold 1J pints, and arrange the slices of cake, buttered side downwards, in it, putting between each layer of cake a thin layer of orange marmalade (about Jib. of marmalade will be sufficient). Boil 2oz. of loaf sugar in J pint of fresh milk, let it cool a little, and then mix with it four well-beaten eggs. Pour the milk and eggs over the slices of cake in the mould, and allow it to stand for half-an-hour to let the cake soak; then bake in a moderate oven for about an hour, turn out carefully, and serve with wine sauce. Kendal Pudding.—Beat two eggs well together with 1 pint of milk, and sweeten to taste. Butter a pie-dish, and line it with a good puli' paste; next spread in two or three