380 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sardines—continued. paste, flavour with lemon-juice, and spread it on thin slices of toast. Put two pieces together to make a sand- wich of them, and cut them in narrow strips. Curried Sardines.—(1) Mix together 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and curry powder, 1 teacupful of cream, and a few drops of lemon-juice; stir it in a saucepan over the fire till quite hot, then put in six or eight Sardines. When they are thoroughly heated, lay tliem on a hot dish with some fried slices of apple and onion, pour the sauce over, put an edging of boiled rice all round, garnish the top with capsicums, and serve hot. (2) Bone and split a few Sardines, dust over them mustard, salt, and pepper, squeeze some lemon-juice over, let them macerate for a short time, then broil them over a clear fire. Rub the inside of a small saucepan with a clove of garlic, then put in the oil from the Sardines; when boil- ing, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 teaspoonful of curry powder that have been mixed together, and 1 break- fast-cupful of milk ; stir the above ingredients over the fire till reduced to a stiff consistency, then move the saucepan off, add the beaten yolk of an egg, a squeeze of lemon- juice, and a little salt and cayenne. Put the Sardines on hot buttered toast, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Devilled Sardines.—Scrape the skin off some Sardines, split them lengthwise, lift the bones out carefully, trim them neatly, and spread a small quantity of made mustard over them; season with moderate quantities of salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice. In about an hour’s time, lay the Sardines on a gridiron and broil them over a clear fire. When delicately browned, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Dressed Sardines.—(1) Remove the bones and skins from six or seven Sardines, and pound them in a mortar, mixing in at the same time 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teaspoonful each of Worcestershire sauce and anchovy sauce. Fry some croutons of bread in boiling butter; spread the Sardine paste on them, and keep them hot in the oven. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till dissolved, then add % table-spoon- ful of flour, 1 teacupful of boiling water, 1 teasjroonful each of Worcestershire sauce and anchovy essence, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a pinch of cayenne. Put the croutons and Sardines on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Clean the Sardines, wipe them, put them on a grid- iron, and broil over a clear brisk fire, cooking them for two minutes .on each side. Arrange them on a hot dish, sprinkle over some salt, baste with warmed butter, anil serve. (3) Lift the Sardines carefully out of the box to avoid breaking them, and lay them on a plate; neatly pare off Fig. 448. Dressed Sardines garnished with Parsley. the loose skins, then dress on a glass dish, and decorate with parsley. See Fig. 448. (4) Take nine Sardines from a tin box, drain off the oil, and put them in a glass dish; sprinkle over some chopped capers and parsley, cover with oil, not using that out of the box, and serve. Tried Sardines.—Draw the insides out and remove the heads of some Sardines; scrape them well, wipe them, and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sardines—continued. rub over with flour. Plunge the Sardines into boiling oil, and fry them quickly. When cooked, drain the fish, arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Sardines a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Skin some Sardines, cut off their tails, arrange them on hot buttered toast on a dish, and heat them in the oven. Put 1 teacupful of white sauce in a saucepan, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped onion and a little chopped parsley, boil it for a few minutes, then add 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Take the dish of Sardines out of the oven, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Sardines en Papillotes.—Drain the oil off some Sardines, scrape and bone them ; fill them with a mixture of chopped mushrooms, fine herbs, and cold brown sauce. Wrap them carefully in paper, fastening it securely at the ends, and warm them in the oven. Put the Sardines on a hot dish, and serve. Sardines au Parmesan.—Drain the oil off some small Sardines, remove the skin and tips of the tails, and roll them in finely-grated Parmesan cheese. Cut some slices of bread about |in. thick, and toast and butter them. Cut the toast into strips a little wider than the Sardines; put a Sardine on each strip, and warm in the oven. Arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Sardines a la Piedmontaise.—Scrape some Sardines, and put them in the oven till hot. Put in a saucepan four well-beaten yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful each of tarragon vinegar, malt vinegar, and made mustard, a little salt, and J table-spoonful of butter. Stir the sauce over the fire till quite thick, but do not let it boil. Cut some slices of bread, remove the crusts, and fry them in boiling lard or butter till lightly browned. Drain the pieces of bread, arrange them on a hot dish, put the Sardines on them, pour the sauce over, and serve. Sardines on Anchovy Toast.—Clean three anchovies, put them into a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste, loz. of butter, and a seasoning of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg, and pound them to a smooth paste, then nib it through a hair sieve. Toast some thin slices of bread, and cut them into pieces about the breadth and length of a Sardine. Wash some Sardines in hot water, wipe them dry, divide into fillets by splitting them down the hack, and take the bone out. Spread the pounded anchovy on the toast, and lay a filleted Sardine on top of each piece. Pile the pieces of toast on a dish in cou]des, crossing one another like lattice work, and garnish with chopped hard-boiled eggs. Sardine Butter.—Remove the skins and bones from seven or eight Sardines, put the fish in a mortar, and pound it until smooth. Boil 2 large handfuls of parsley until tender, then squeeze it as dry as possible, remove all the stalks, and chop it. Put the parsley in the mortar with the Sardines and 4oz., of butter, and pound again. When well incorporated, mould the butter into shapes, and keep it on ice until the time of serving. The above is excellent spread on hot toast. Sardines in Cases.—Skin and bone twelve Sardines, and pound them in a mortar, then mix with them 1 table- spoonful of anchovy sauce, £ teacupful of cream, and 2oz. of warmed but not oiled butter. Season the mixture to taste with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne. Turn it into small ramekin-cases, strew grated bread- crumbs on top of each, and place on them some small hits of butter. Put the cases in a brisk oven, and leave them until the crumbs have browned, then take them out, place them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Sardines in Eggs.—Skin and bone ten Sardines, and put them in a mortar; remove the shells from ten hard-boiled eggs, cut them in pieces crosswise, put the yolks in the mortar with the Sardines, adding at the same time a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and 1 talde-spoonful of butter; pound them all together, fill the whites of the eggs Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads.