TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 408 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. San sages—continu ed. Stewed Sausages with Beer.—Prick the Sausages in several places with a fork, put them in a stewpan in which a piece of butter has been melted, and brown them over a brisk fire. When the Sausages are nicely browned, pour in 4 pint of mild dinner ale, and put the lid on the stew- pan. When the liquor boils, draw the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and let it simmer for half-an-hour. When cooked, strain the Sausages, put them on a hot dish, and serve with mashed potatoes. Stewed Sausages with Cabbage. -Procure a medium-sized white cabbage, remove all the green leaves, and cut it into quarters, removing the centre stalks. Wash thoroughly in cold water, drain well on a cloth, cut them into small pieces, and put them into boiling salted water for five minutes. Remove into cold water to cool moderately, take the pieces of cabbage out, drain in a colander, and put it into a saucepan with 1 gill of fat from soup stock called toppings, or loz. of butter. Season with a good pinch of salt, and 4 pinch of pepper, also a whole medium- sized onion and a carrot cut into four pieces. Put on the lid of the saucepan, remove to a moderate fire, and cook for half an-hour. Take twelve Sausages, prick them with a fork, add them to the cabbage, and let all cook together for twelve minutes. Dress the cabbage on a hot dish, and arrange the Sausages and carrots on top. Serve very hot. Stewed Sausages with Wine.—(1) Fry some small Sausages till nearly done, then take them out and drain their fat into a stewpan. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs in with the fat, and lightly colour them over the fire, then pour in 4 pint of white wine, and stir it till boiling; put the Sausages in, and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Put the Sausages on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Brown a very finely-chopped onion in a saute-pan with loz. of butter. Moisten with 4 wineglassful of white wine, and add two Sausages; prick them slightly with a fork, cover the pan, and cook the contents for five minutes. Put in \ pint of Spanish sauce, cook for five minutes longer, and serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. / SAUTE.—Modern cooks are so accustomed to use this word, as potatoes sautes, that its significance becomes rather obscure, whereas in its native sense the full mean- ing is evident. The French sauter—to leap, or cause to leap, to toss, tells its own tale; but the object of tossing when cooking in a frying-pan is not so plain. Potatoes and some other foods, such as kidneys, &c., require not only to be fried brown on the outside, but also to be cooked through. As the frying by itself would brown the outsides before the insides were cooked, a French cook devised the plan of tossing, the substances being fried, so that whilst catching the full heat occasionally they should also, now and then, have a short respite of cooking. In this way the cooking is brought to perfection, being light brown and done through. Unfortunately we have no word in the English language to express saute-ing. “Jumping” has Fig. 473. Saute-pan. been used, but nobody would take “jumped potatoes” for potatoes or pommes-de-terre sautes. The pan used (see Fig. 473) and known as a saute-pan or sautoir, is shallow with straight sides, and of various sizes. SAUTERNE.—A Bordeaux wine made from white grapes, which were allowed to remain hanging some time upon the vine. It is a capital luncheon or dinner wine. SAVARIN CAKE.—See Cakes. SAVELOYS (Fr. Cervelas; Ital. Cervellatte).—Our Saveloy is a corruption of cervelas, and cervelas is again a corruption of cervelet, the small or animal brain, the cerebellum. The original Saveloy or Italian sausage was made with pig’s brains as one of its ingredients. The brains are no longer used, but the name remains—brains or brain sausages. The term is now generally applied to sausages that are sold ready cooked, either hot or cold. Amongst these are to be found the (correctly speaking) Bologna, Brunswick, and other cooked sausages. The British Saveloy is made as follows : (1) Cut into small pieces fib. each of fresh lean pork and salt lean pork, and Jib. of pork-fat; afterwards mince them in a mincing-machine. Add to the mince 41b. of sifted breadcrumbs, 2 teaspoonfuls each of dried and sifted pennyroyal and powdered sage, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, and salt to taste. Have some skins dyed red, and fill them with the mixture, but without pressing it in. Tie Fig. 474. Saveloys. the Saveloys into lengths (see Fig. 474), plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, drain the Saveloys, and hang them up. When cold they are ready for use. (2) Cut off all the skin from Gib. of pork and put it into a jar or bowl with a pickle of salt and saltpetre and let it remain for three days. Take it out, drain it, mince very fine, and sprinkle over it 3 table-spoonfuls of pepper and a dozen or so sage-leaves, dried and powdered. When these are all well mixed, stir in lib. of breadcrumbs, and fill up with it the required number of cleaned skins. Put the Saveloys into a slack oven and bake gently for lialf-an- liour or so. Take them out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Smoked Saveloys.—Procure lib. of pig’s ears, put them into a basin with water to cover, soak them for an hour, after which drain and dry them on a cloth. Put them in a large jar, strew plenty of salt and saltpetre over them, and leave for a week. At the end of that time drain them from the brine, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil. When tender, drain, bone, and cut them into thin shreds. Chop 21b. of pork and fib. of fat bacon; mix them together with 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 4 teaspoonful of salt- petre, 2 teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 4 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, and 4 table-spoonful each of pounded cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Chop the mince for ten minutes, and when fine mix it or pass it through a mincing- machine (see Mincing) with the shred ears. Clean and soak some pig’s intestines, and stuff them as full as possible with the mixture. Tie the Saveloys into lengths, and smoke them for two days. Afterwards put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Drain the Saveloys, wrap them up in cloths, and tie tightly. When quite cold, cut the Saveloys into thin slices, lay them on a dish over an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. SAVOURY CUSTARD.—See Custards. SAVOYS.—See Cabbages. SAVOY CAKES.—See Cakes. SAVOY COMPOTE.—See Compotes. SAVOY SOUP.—See Soups.