TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 246 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Prawns—continued. gently for lialf-an-hour or so with the lid on the pan, remove the blades of lemon-grass, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Dried Prawns.—Remove the shells from some Prawns, put them in a basin with a small quantity of salt and turmeric, and let them remain for a day or so. Take them out, string them, place in the sun for from fifteen to twenty days, and they are ready for use. Potted Prawns.—Use freshly-boiled Prawns, pick the meat out from the tails, and pound it in a mortar with half its weight of fresh butter. Season to taste with pounded mace, nutmeg, and cayenne pepper, pack it into moulds, and cover with clarified butter. When ready to use, turn it out of the moulds, and garnish with watercress or small salad. Prawns in Aspic.—(1) Put a little slightly-warmed aspic jelly in the bottom of a mould packed in ice, decorate it with a little lobster coral, chopped white of hard-boiled egg and gherkins, small quantities of the yolks of the eggs rubbed through a sieve, and cover this over with more of the jelly; then put in lib. of Prawns taken out of their shells, pour in more jelly, let it set, then decorate again, then more jelly and Prawns, and fill up the mould with Fig. 308. Prawns in Aspic. the jelly. When set firmly, turn it out on to a dish, garnish with wedge-shaped croft tons of aspic jelly and small quantities of lettuce finely chopped surmounted by Prawns in their shells (see Fig. 308), and serve. (2) Put 21b. of knuckle of veal into a saucepan with a calf’s foot, a few slices of lean bacon, some sliced vege- tables, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and 2qts. of water; boil the whole until the liquor will jelly when cold, then strain it into a basin. When cold, remove the fat, put the jelly in a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of sherry and the beaten whites and shells of two eggs, and boil it; then strain through a jelly-bag. When nearly set, pour a layer of the jelly into a mould, then put in a layer of shelled Prawns, next another layer of jelly, and so on until the mould is quite full. Each layer of jelly should set before another layer is poured in. Pack the mould in pounded salt and ice, and leave it for several hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, and turn the contents out very carefully on to a dish. Prawn Cromeskies.—Take about a hundred Prawns, pull them out of their shells, and chop very fine. Put them into a frying-pan with loz. of butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, adding gradually a very small quantity of flour, 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock, and a little seasoning of ground allspice, salt, and pepper. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a basin, and beat in the yolk of an egg; stir this into the Prawn mixture, turn it out on to a board or table, and let it cool. Separate it into the required number of pieces or cromeskies, wrap them round with thin slices of bacon, dip them in warmed butter, and Prawns—continued. put them into a frying-pan over a clear fire, and fry gently for five or six minutes; put them on a dish when done, and serve. Prawn Cutlet.—Well wash three or four dozen Prawns, remove the heads, split them down the centre, and slightly flatten them, forming the whole into a cutlet shape. Sprinkle them over with salt, pepper, and finely powdered sweet herbs, brush over with yolk of egg, and dust them with flour. Place the cutlet in a pan of fat, and fry over a moderate fire until of a light brown colour; then put it on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Prawn Omelet.—Pick the Prawns out of their shells and chop them coarsely; put them in a basin with 1 table- spoonful of minced parsley and three eggs, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and beat all well together. Melt a lump of butter or clarified fat in an omelet-pan, put in the above mixture, and fry it. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper over a small dish, place the omelet on it, and serve while hot. Prawn Pilau.—Remove the shells from twelve large Prawns, and put them in a saucepan with a good hard cocoa-nut cut up into small pieces; add a seasoning of onions, ginger, and salt, pour over 1 pint of water, and boil until the whole is done. Take out the Prawns and strain the gravy into a basin. Put 4oz. of ghee or fat into a saucepan, boil it, add twelve onions cut in slices, cook them to a light brown, and push them on one side of the pan or take them out. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of rice to the fat, cook until it is absorbed, then add a few cloves, four cardamoms, six small sticks of cinnamon, ten peppercorns, one or two blades of mace, and 1 dessert spoonful of salt. Pour over sufficient cocoa-nut milk to cover the rice, and boil gently until the liquor is all absorbed. Place the lice in the centre of a dish, strew over the fried onions, garnish with the Prawns and two hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and serve. Broth may be used instead of the cocoa-nut milk, but if the latter is used it will impart a sweet and very agreeable flavour to the dish. Should it be too sweet for taste, the strength may be reduced. Prawn Powder.—Well wash 21b. of Indian dried Prawns, and pound them well in a mortar, adding red pepper and grated nutmeg to taste ; pass the powder through a very fine sieve, bottle it, and it is ready for use. Bread-and- butter spread over with this is considered a luxury. Prawn Salad.—Remove the skins and heads of the Prawns, arrange them on a dish with a handful or two of pickled parsley, and dredge over with salt. Squeeze the juice of three lemons into a basin, beat it, together with 3 table spoonfuls of the best salad-oil until well mixed, then pour it over the Prawns, and serve. Prawn Salad made from Tinned Prawns.—Open a tin of Prawns, wash and drain them. Put the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs in a bowl, and mix with them 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, a few drops of essence of shrimps, 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and a sufficient quantity, in equal portions, of shallot, malt and chilli vinegar, to make 1 table-spoonful more. Work the mixture with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Wash in plenty of water two or three freshly-gathered lettuces and some mustard-and-cress, cut the lettuces into thin shreds, mix them on a round dish with two-thirds of the Prawns and the dressing, and put a bunch of the cress in the centre. Cut the whites of the eggs into rings, fill each ring with a small bunch of the cress, arrange them round the dish, strew the re- mainder of the Prawns over the centre of the salad, and serve without delay. Prawn Soup.—(1) Pull out the meat from 3 pints of Prawns, put them, shells and all, into a saucepan with a blade of mace, and pour over 4 table-spoonfuls of water and 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil for twenty minutes. Pour the liquor through a fine sieve placed over another saucepan containing |gall. of fish stock. Put 2 pints of the boiled Prawns into a mortar with the crumb of a French roll and 4 table spoonfuls of the stock, and 'pound the whole to a pulp. Rub it through a fine sieve