TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 221 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dsc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fork—continued. Pork Sausages.—(1) Empty and clean the intestines of an ox, cut these skins into required lengths, and put them in a basin of salted water or a weak solution of lime water, and let them remain for about four days, turning them frequently inside out and back again. Take them out, scrape the inside clean, and put them into a basin of slightly salted water, and let them remain until wanted for use, when they must be thoroughly drained. In the meantime, put about 101b. of Pork with a fair quantity of fat on it into a bowl of pickle (see Brine), and let it remain for a week. Take it out, drain, mince it very fine, and sprinkle over Jib. of salt, loz. of pepper, and a little allspice, say about 1 teaspoonful. Put this sausage meat into the skins, filling them quite full, and securely tying both ends, wrap them round with muslin, and smoke them for twelve or fourteen days. Take them out, rub them well over with pepper, and let them hang in a cold place until wanted, when they should be boiled, and when cold again cut them into slices and serve. The meat may be put into plain brine instead of pickle if preferred, but the pickle gives better results. (2) Take the meat from the loin and necks, remove the skin, cut the meat into small pieces, mixing with it a good proportion of fat to prevent the sausages being too dry, and pass it through a small mincing machine. For every pound of meat season with 1 teaspoonful of spice composed of the following ingredients: pepper, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, and ground mace. Season also with finely- chopped sweet herbs and shallots, and mix the whole with a third portion of grated breadcrumbs. When thoroughly incorporated, pass the mixture again through the mincing machine, cutting it off into lengths as it comes through. Do not put the sausages into skins, but dredge them well with flour. They will keep good for a week or ten days in a cool place. When ready to cook, fry them in beef dripping. (3) German.—Put the ears, muzzle (previously boned), tongue, and feet, pricked all over with a trussing needle, into a basin or bowl with sufficient saltpetre brine to cover them, and let them remain for five or six days. Take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan of water, and add a few vegetables, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the pan on a moderate fire and boil slowly until they are all well cooked. Take them out, remove the bones, and cut the meat up into small pieces or fillets about 2in. in length. Put them all into a basin, sprinkle over a little more salt and pepper, and stir well to mix them. Clean an ox-gut-bladder, stuff it with the pig mixture, tying the ends, and taking care to exclude all the air. Prepare a broth with the bones, put the bladder in it, and boil slowly until it rises to the surface, when it will be done. Take it out, drain, put it in with a weight on the top, and let it get quite cold ; then place it on a dish, and serve with a garnish of aspic jelly. Pork Sausages boiled in White Wine.—Put half-a-dozen Pork sausages into a '-ante-pan with \ pint of white wine, and sprinkle over a little pepper. Set the pan on the fire, cover with the lid, and boil the contents gently for eight minutes. Take out the sausages, put them on a dish, add 1 teacupful of poulette sauce to the liquor, reduce it for four minutes, then remove the pan from the lire and stir in loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped parsley. When the butter is melted, pour the liquor over the sausages, and serve. Pork Soup.—Put a large salted knuckle of Pork into a basin of water and let it soak for a few hours. Take it out, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and add one whole carrot and onion. Set the pan on the fire and boil for a couple of hours, then pour in 2 break- fast-cupfuls of dry peas, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the Pork and peas are both well done. Take out the knuckle of Pork and cut it up into moderate- sized pieces or squares. Strain off the liquor from the peas and pass the latter through a fine sieve, having taken out the carrot and onion. Put the liquor and peas back into the saucepan, boil them again, stirring fre- quently, then add the pieces of the knuckle of Pork. Simmer gently at the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an- Pork—continued. hour, skim off the fat from the soup, pour it into a soup- tureen, and serve very hot with a few slices of toast on a dish. Pork Souse.—Clean the feet and ears of a pig thoroughly, put them in a basin with a large lump of salt and cold water to cover them, and let them stand all night. On the following morning drain them, put them into a sauce- pan with fresh water, and boil until tender. Drain the feet and ears, split them, and leave them until cold. Pour sufficient vinegar to cover the feet and ears in a saucepan, with a blade of mace and a dozen peppercorns, and boil them for several minutes together. Put the ears and feet into a large stone jar with a little salt, and pour the boiling vinegar over them. This souse will keep good for a month or two. Pork Steaks in Rolls.—Season some thin steaks of young Pork with salt and pepper, roll them to an oval shape, and bind them round with twine, putting a few green sage leaves on the outside. Put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and place them over the fire until the moisture has reduced and they are nicely browned, turning them occasionally and basting with their own gravy. When cooked, put the rolls of Pork on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, garnish with cut lemons, strain what remains of the sauce over, and serve. Potted Pork.—Cut 21b. of lean Pork into nice-sized pieces; line an earthenware jar with chopped beef suet, put in the pieces of meat with a piece of mace, and dust over with salt and pepper. Pour in H breakfast-cupfuls of water and cover with chopped suet. Tie a stout piece of paper tightly over the jar, and put it in a very moderate oven. In about three hours’ time take the jar out of the oven and leave it until the following day. Then take the pieces of Pork out of the jar, put them in a mortar, and pound to a smooth paste; add more salt and pepper if required, and any other seasoning that may be liked. Press the meat into small jars, leaving about Jin. space at the top of each, which fill up with clarified suet. Tie the jars over, and put them in a dry store-cupboard for use. Roasted Chine of Pork.—(1) Hang up a chine of Pork in a cool place and let it remain until quite tender, then put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil it gently for thirty minutes. Take it out, drain, and make several small incisions in the meat, and fill these up with very finely-chopped sage. Brush the chine all over with egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and put it in a Dutch oven to roast. When done, take it out, put it on a dish, arrange a few boiled cauliflowers round it, and serve. (2) Put a chine of Pork into a bowl, cover it with salt, and let it remain for three days. Take it out, score the skin deeply, cutting it so as to reach the meat, and stuff it with Pork stuffing and apple sauce in equal pro- portions. Put it in front of a clear fire or in a quick oven, and roast it, basting frequently; allow twenty minutes’ cooking to each pound of meat. Take it up when done, put it on a dish, thicken the liquor with a small lump of butter rolled in Hour, pour it over the meat, and serve hot. Roasted Leg of Pork.—Take a leg of Pork weighing about Gib., score the rind evenly with a very sharp knife, put it on a spit or in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and roast it, turning frequently so as to cook it equally. A leg of this weight will take about two hours, that is, twentjiafiiinutes for each pound. Baste it frequently with its own drippings, and when it is done put it on a dish (see Fig. 283); thicken the drippings or gravy with a little flour and butter, pour it over, and serve. A sauceboatful of tomato sauce should also accompany it. Roasted Leg of Pork in Imitation of Goose.—Parboil a leg of Pork and take off the skin. Then roast it, bast- ing it with butter and a little each of dried and powdered sage, sifted breadcrumbs, finely-chopped onions, and ground black pepper mixed together. Continue sprinkling with