235 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads Potatoes—continued. Fotato-and-Onion Saute.—Use an equal quantity of small new Potatoes and onions of tlie same size. Peel the vege- tables, put them in a saute-pan with a good-sized lump of butter, and toss them about over the lire for about a-quarter- of-an-hour, taking care not to let them burn. Pour in water to about half the height of the vegetables, season with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and stew them gently for nearly half-an-hour. When cooked, squeeze in the juice of a small lemon, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Potatoes in Parsley.—Peel and wash a sufficient quantity of Potatoes, small ones are the best, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for live minutes; strain olf the water, pour in sufficient fresh boiling water to moisten to height, add a lump of butter and a small quantity of salt, and boil them until tender. When suffi- ciently cooked take the Potatoes carefully out, put them in a hot deep dish, and keep them near the fire. Put in the liquor that the Potatoes were boiled in, a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley, and boil it for a few minutes until somewhat thickly reduced. Pour the sauce over the Potatoes, and serve them. Potato-Paste Sausage Rolls.—Mince ilb. of lean cooked meat, mix in one large onion also cooked anti chopped, and sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, with salt and pepper to taste. Pour A gill of water well flavoured with mushroom ketchup into a saucepan on the fire, and when it is warm add the minced meat and onion, and stir well until the whole becomes quite thick; then turn it out on to a plate and let it cool. Put lib. of boiled Potatoes into a basin, mash them, mix in 1 teaspoonful of warmed butter or dripping, and add suffi- cient flour to make a stiff paste. Roll this paste out very thinly on a well floured board or table, and cut it into squares about 5in. in diameter. Divide the meat mixture and put it in the centre of the squares of Potatoes, fold over two of the sides, and press down the edges to bind them. Put them into a hot oven, and when they are well browned take them out and serve them on a dish; or the paste may be cut in rounds a little less in diameter, the edges damped and fastened in the centre, and the rolls or shapes fried in boiling fat. Potato Patties.—(1) Chop fine 6oz. of cold meat, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley mixed with a little chopped onion, 1 dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a very little milk. Mash finely lib. of cooked Potatoes with about 4 table-spoonfuls of milk. Grease half-a-dozen good-sized patty-pans, line them with the mashed Potato, put a good spoonful of the seasoned minced meat into each, and cover with a crust of the mashed Potato. Put a bit of butter on the top of each, bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour, turn out of the pans, and serve hot. (2) Mash seven or eight cold boiled Potatoes and moisten them with a small quantity of milk. Warm 2oz. of butter and beat until creamy, then mix it with the Potatoes. Boil the remainder of \ pint of milk, stir it into the Potatoes, turn all into a saucepan, and stir the mixture over the fire until reduced to a smooth paste. Move it off the fire, mix two beaten eggs with it, and turn it into a dish until cool. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and whisk the whites separately to a stiff froth, mix the eggs gently into the batter, and stir it till quite smooth. Coat the interior of some small patty-pans with butter, strew in grated breadcrumb, and shake out all that do not adhere to the butter. Fill the patty-pans with the batter, put them in a quick oven, and bake until lightly browned. When cooked, turn the patties out of the tins on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper spread on a hot dish, and serve without delay. Potato Patties with. Game.—Pick out all the best flesh of the remains of three or four cold roasted snipe, cut it into small pieces with ill', of lean cooked beef, and pound them in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings of the game into a saucepan, with a piece of celery, two or three onions and carrots, a bay-leaf, a few cloves and peppercorns, half a blade of mace, salt to taste, and moisten only to height with water, first pressing the ingredients down tightly. Potatoes —continued. Let the whole simmer at the edge of the fire for two hours. Peel and wash 21b. of Potatoes, put them in a saucepan with water, and boil for ten minutes, then strain off all the water, put in a good-sized lump of butter, salt to taste, and finish cooking them gently. When the Potatoes are quite tender, mix in with them the yolks of three eggs, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and beat them over the fire for five minutes. Pass the Potato mixture through a fine hair sieve on to a dish, and flatten it out to about Him in thickness. When the Potato paste is cold, cut it into rounds with a paste- cutter 2in. in diameter, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and mark a circle over the top of each with a Him tin cutter, then let them rest awhile. Strain the above liquor, mix it with the pounded meat, pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan, and heat it gradually over a gentle fire. Melt a good-sized lump of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, put in the Potato patties, and fry them until lightly and equally browned. Drain the patties, lift up the marked circle, and scoop out some of the inside. Fill the hollows with the puree of game, lay the patties on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Pie.—(1) Peel and boil the requisite quantity of Potatoes, and when cooked mash them smoothly with a small quantity of milk or butter. Any kind of cold meat can be used, but if fowl or veal, a few slices of ham or tongue should be put in the pie. Fill a dish with alternate layers of Potatoes and slices of meat, seasoning to taste with herbs, salt, and pepper, making the last layer of Potatoes. Baste the Potatoes with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg. Bake the pie in a good oven until nicely browned over the top, and serve it while very hot in the same dish. (2) Peel the Potatoes, wash them, and cut them into slices. Sprinkle 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped suet in a pie-dish, put in a layer of sliced onions, then sift in a small quantity of the best Scotch oatmeal; put a layer of the Potatoes on the top of that, season with salt and pepper, and continue with alternate layers until the dish is full, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper, and putting Potatoes at the last. Put 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder and A teaspoonful of salt in lib. of flour, and rub in 4oz. of lard. When quite smooth, mix in sufficient water to make a paste and roll it out on a floured board. Cover the pie with the crust, trim it round the edges, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven. Serve hot. (3) Cut a loin of mutton into chops and trim oft' the bones and some of the fat; cut three or four sheep’s kidneys into slices, and cut a cow-heel into small pieces. Butter the edges of a large pie-dish, and line it with a good crust; then put in the above ingredients, mixing with them about twenty bearded oysters, several chopped mush- rooms, and a few slices of onion, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper and any spices that may be liked, and moistening with a small quantity of water. Cover the whole with a thick layer of thinly-sliced Potatoes. Roll out thinly a flat of pie-crust, cover the pie with it, trim it oil evenly round the edges, moisten and press them together, and make a hole in the top. Cover the pie with a sheet of paper to prevent the crust taking too much colour, and bake it in a moderate oven. Put the bones of the mutton and cow-heel into a stewpan with any trim- mings of mushrooms and oysters, pour in 1 pint of water season to taste, and boil them gently until the goodness is well extracted. Afterwards strain the gravy, and when the pie is cooked pour it in through the hole at the top Serve while hot. (4) Free some cold cooked fish from skin and bone, cut it into small pieces, lay them in a pie-dish, strew some chopped parsley and thyme over them, season with salt and pepper, and moisten them to height with clear gravy and a small quantity of vinegar. Bake the fish for ten or fifteen minutes in the oven. Mash some boiled Potatoes with a lump of butter, season them with salt and