325 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Rics—continued. (9) Mix l pint of milk or water in a basin with 2 break- fast-cupfuls of cold boiled Rice, and sprinkle in 12 or 14 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice. Divide the mixture into small cakes, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, and bake in a sharp oven. When done and of a good colour, slip them off the baking-sheet on to a dish, and serve. (10) Slightly warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it until frothy with 5oz. of caster sugar, flavouring with a few drops of essence of lemons. Separate the yolks and whites of two eggs. Beat the yolks, and mix them with the above ingredients; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and add them also; sift in gradually a sufficient quantity of ground Rice and flour in equal portions to thicken the mixture, beating and stirring well at the same time. Butter some small deep tins, half till each with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, turn them out of the tins, and let them get cold. To keep- the cakes fresh any time they should be packed away in biscuit-tins. Ground-Rice Cake Glazed with Apricot or other Jam. —Break sixteen perfectly fresh eggs in a lined saucepan, add lib. of caster sugar, and whip them over a very slow fire for fifteen minutes; then mix in fib. of butter in small pieces, ilb. of ground Rice, and I wineglassful of maras- chino, and stir the whole lightly till well mixed, but move them off the fire when commencing to boil. Butter a fluted cylinder-mould 3in. high, and dust it over with a little flour, shaking out the superfluous; then turn the cake mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the mould, and mask it with hot apricot or other jam that has been reduced with syrup. Sprinkle the cake while hot with blanched and chopped sweet almonds and pistachio-kernels, then leave it till cold before serving. Ground-Rice-and-Cocoanut Pudding.—Grate a large cocoa- nut, put it in a basin, pour over f pint of boiling water, beat it well with a wooden spoon, and leave it for a few minutes. Strain the liquor, mix smoothly in it about Mb. of ground Rice, and sweeten to taste. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, and boil it gently until it thickens, stirring at the same time with a wooden spoon. Turn the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake it until nicely browned. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. A few pieces of butter put on the top before baking will improve it. Ground-Rice Cream.—(1) Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice, loz. of butter, and the rind of a lemon nibbed off on 2oz. of loaf sugar; add hoy., of dissolved gelatine, and boil for five or six minutes, stirring continually; then pour the whole into a basin, and let it cool. Mix in 1 breakfast- cupful of cream, and turn the mixture into a mould packed in ice; when it is firm, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put 4 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice and 2 table- spoonfuls of milk into a saucepan, work them to a smooth paste, and add the well-whisked yolks of four eggs and whites of two, and sugar to taste. Pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls of boiling milk, boil for two or three minutes, and turn the preparation into a mould. Let it get still' and firm, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Boil 3 pints of fresh milk; mix 7oz. of ground Rice in sufficient water to make a smooth batter, then stir it in gradually with the boiling milk, put in 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of essence of orange-flowers. Stir the mixture over the fire until smooth but not too thick. Rub the interior of a mould with oil of almonds, pour the mixture into it, and leave it in a cold place till firm; if wanted quickly, it is best to pack it in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a dish. (4) Mix 2oz. of ground Rice in a small lined saucepan with 1 h table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, loz. of fresh butter, and 1 pint of new milk. Flavour with a few drops of essence of almonds or vanilla, and boil it for about twenty minutes, stirring all the time to keep it smooth and prevent it from burning. Rinse a mould out with cold For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Rice—continued. water, pour the cream into it, and stand it in a cool place. When quite cold and set, turn the cream on to a dish, garnish with stewed fruit, and serve. Ground-Rice Custard.—Blanch and pound h table-spoonful of bitter almonds, put them in a basin with U table- spoonfuls of ground Rice, and stir in gradually If, pints of milk and cream, mixed in equal quantities, and 1 wine- glassful of rose-water. Sweeten the mixture to taste witli caster sugar, turn it into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow lire. Boil it for five minutes, then move it to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Pour the custard into a dish, strew caster sugar on the top, and serve it. Ground-Rice Dumplings.—Put 4oz. of ground Rice into a basin, and mix in sufficient cold milk to make a thick paste; stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and add ‘2oz. of butter and 1 pinch of salt. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and boil until thick, stirring continually. Remove the saucepan from the fire, let the mixture cool, and then add three well-beaten eggs. Take a little of the preparation up in a spoon, and drop it into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Continue to do this till all the preparation is used up. Let the dumplings boil for about five minutes, take them out, drain, put them on on a dish, and serve with caster sugar sifted over them; or serve with raspberry-and-currant or other jam. See Fig. 380. Ground-Rice Flummery. -(1) Place lqt. of fresh milk into a saucepan over the fire, then put into it the grated rind of half a lemon, foz. of bitter almonds blanched and pounded, and Jib. of loaf sugar; when this is quite melted, stir in Jib. of ground Rice, let it come to the boil, and boil for fifteen minutes, stirring it all the time. Pour it into a mould, and when quite cold turn it out. (2) Put 4oz. of ground Rice into a double-boiler with 1 pint of new milk, and stir well over the fire until it thickens; then add ten or twelve drops of essence of almonds and 3oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Turn the mixture into a mould, let it remain for a day, turn it out, and serve with preserve. Ground-Rice Fritters.—Put Jib. of ground Rice into a lined saucepan, stir in gradually 1 pint of new milk, and add the peel of half a lemon. Stir the mixture over the fire until quite thick, then pour it into a basin, and stir in Jib. of fresh butter and caster sugar to taste. When the mixture is quite cold add four well beaten new-laid eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and beat well until quite smooth. A wineglassful of brandy or sherry may be mixed in if liked. Put a large lump of lard in a frying- pan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, pour in a sufficient quantity of the batter to spread over the pan. Fry in the same way as for pancakes, and proceed the same with the remainder of the mixture. Roll the fritters up, place them on a hot dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, dust them lightly over with caster sugar, and serve; a little powdered cinnamon may also be sprinkled over them if liked. Ground-Rice Hasty Pudding.—Put lqt. of milk over the fire in a farina-kettle, and when very hot stir in 3 table- spoonfuls of ground Rice blended with a little cold milk. Let it boil for thirty minutes, stirring it constantly; then Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.