TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 30G For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. Preserved Raspberries.—(1) Large Raspberries are best; they should be quite ripe, and care should be taken that there are no insects in the hollows of the berries. Weigh them, and to every pound of Raspberries allow a pound of sugar. Put the Raspberries and sugar in alternate layers in a preserving-pan, being careful to have a layer of sugar at the bottom and also at the top, and let them stand in the sugar all night. In the morning, pick off the stalks from some ripe red currants, bruise them, and squeeze the juice out through a cloth. Add 1 breakfast- cupful of this juice to each 21b. of Raspberries and sugar, weighed together; add the currant-juice to the Raspberries and sugar already in the pan, put it on the stove, and gently stir till it boils. Take off all the scum as it rises and continue stirring to prevent the Raspberries sticking, but be careful not to break them. Continue to boil till clear, let them cool a little, and then put them into jars. When cold, cover and put away in a cool dark place. (2) Take some ripe but not over ripe Raspberries, pick and hull them, and put them into a preserving-pan, adding lib. of clarified sugar boiled to the ball (sec Sugar-boiling) to each pound of Raspberries. Put them over the fire and give them about a dozen boils; skim the syrup, take it from the lire, and let it stand till the next day, then drain the Raspberries from the syrup and put them into jars. Put the syrup over the fire, together with some strained cherry-juice, boil it to the crack (see Sugar- BOILING), and pour it over the Raspberries; add to each jar 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly. When quite cold, lay on the preserve in each jar a piece of white paper soaked in brandy, and cover the jars air-tight. (3) Wash and drain well lOqts. of ripe Raspberries. When ready fill up ten jars, pour into each 1 pint of syrup, and put on the covers very securely; place them in a large saucepan, seeing that they do not touch one another, otherwise they might break, and pack a little hay or straw between them. Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them, and placing it on the hot stove boil for five minutes. Take from off the fire, stand the pan on a table, and with a towel lift out the jars one by one, putting them in a dry but not a cold place. Let them stand until thoroughly cold, then put them away and use as desired. Raspberry-and-Almond Cream-Ice.—Put lqt. of Rasp- berry-juice into a basin with an equal quantity of syrup at 35deg. (see SUGAR-BOILING); mix well, and pass the whole through a fine sieve. Put 3 pints of cream into a saucepan, boil it, and let it cool. Mix in {,1b. of sifted crushed loaf sugar and the yolks of twelve eggs, stir well over the fire, but without boiling; when the mixture begins to thicken add {lb. of sweet and {oz. of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, with 1 table-spoonful of kirschenwasser, and pass this also through a fine sieve into a basin. Put the Raspberry mixture into a freezer Fig. 360. Raspberry-and-Almond Cream-Ice. and the almond cream into another, and work them both until sufficiently frozen. Put them, mixing them or in layers, on to an ornamental paper spread over a dish (see Fig. 360), and serve. Raspberry Biscuits.—Put lib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar into a basin with an equal weight of blanched and Raspberries—continued. pounded sweet almonds; add a little grated lemon-rind and sufficient yolk of egg to form a stiff' paste. Roll half of this out very thin, cover it with a layer of Raspberry jam, place the remainder of the paste on the top, and let it stand for a day. Cover the top with royal icing, cut it up into strips about 3in. long by lin. wide, put them on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake until done. Take them out and serve cold. Raspberry Blanc-mange.—Put lgall. of Raspberries into an earthenware bowl, press them well with a spoon, turn them out on to a sieve over a saucepan, and strain off as much of the juice as possible. Mix in l{oz. of gelatine and 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar. Place the saucepan over a clear fire and boil until the gelatine is dissolved, and then add gradually 3 teacupfuls of cream, stirring continually until the mixture is of the required consistency. Let it get cool, turn it into a mould, set it on the ice or in a cold jdace, and when the blanc mange is firm turn it out, and serve. Raspberry Bouchees des Dames.—Put the yolks of six eggs into a basin and beat them up with {lb. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, working them well for about five minutes. Add the whites of the eggs, whipped to a stiff froth, and mix in 4oz. of Hour. Turn the mixture into a biscuit-forcer or paper funnel, squeeze out rounds about l{in. in diameter, letting them fall on sheets of paper, dust them over with caster sugar, and bake them. When done, take them out, trim them, mask half of them with Raspberry jam, cover with the other half, glaze them with Raspberry icing, by dipping them into it, holding one at a time on a skewer, drain, put them in the hot closet for two or three minutes to set, take them out, and when they are cold they are ready for use. Raspberry Brandy.—(1) Blanch eighteen or twenty bitter almonds, and cut them into small pieces. Pick carefully over 21b. of ripe Raspberries to remove all the stalks and leaves, and put them in a quart bottle with the almonds and lib. of caster sugar. Fill the bottle up with brandy, cork it tightlp, and keep it in a warm place for a month. Shake the bottle occasionally. If possible, the bottle should be exposed to the sun. At the end of that time it may be mo vedto a dry store-cupboard. The brandy ought to be kept ten or twelve months before it is used. (2) Take l pint of good ripe Raspberries, remove the hulls, taking care that there are no insects in the hollows of the fruit. When carefully picked, bruise and put them in a wide-mouthed bottle, pour on to them lqt. of the best brandy, cork up the bottle, and let the fruit stand in the brandy for a fortnight. Then put Jib. of loaf sugar into a small saucepan with 1 gill of cold water and boil it, taking off the scum as it rises, till it becomes clear. Add this syrup to the fruit and brandy, pour all into a jelly-bag, and let it drain through. When the liquor is strained from the Raspberries, bottle and cork it up, and keep it in a cool dark place for a fortnight, then strain it again; be careful not to disturb the sediment when pouring it out. When the liqueur is perfectly clear and bright put it into clean bottles and cork it up. (3) Put .the Raspberries into a stone or earthenware jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and scald the fruit until the juice will run without pressure. Put lib. of loaf sugar into a saucepan, pour over the juice, which should be lqt., boil it, and skim well until the liquor is clear. Pour it out into a large bottle, mix in an equal quantity of brandy, shake the bottle well, pour the liquor into smaller bottles, cork them down when cold, and the brandy is then ready for use. (4) Mix 2oz. of essence of Raspberry and the same of acetic acid with 1 pint each of syrup of gum Arabic and Raspberry-juice, and turn the whole into a cask contain- ing half a barrel of pure spirits. Raspberry Butter Sauce.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, slightly warm it, and work in {lb. of loaf sugar, crushed and sifted. Pour in sufficient Raspberry-juice to colour and flavour it, and it is ready for use.