232 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. mix in Jib. of butter warmed in a small quantity of cream. Mix all well together, and let the mixture stand till cold. Line some patty-pans with puff paste, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, dredge a little powdered white sugar over them, and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. Potato-and-Chervil Soup.—Peel and wash Jib. of Potatoes, boil them, and pass them through a sieve into a saucepan; add a small lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient milk to make it of the required consistency; set the pan on the fire, and boil once. Sprinkle in a handful of chopped chervil, turn the soup into a tureen over a few pieces of fried bread, and serve. Potato Chops.—(1) Boil some Potatoes, and when cooked season them with salt and pepper, and mash them smoothly with a little milk. Bone a nice loin chop, trim it, beat it with a cutlet bat, put it into a stewpan, pour a small quantity of clear well-seasoned gravy over it, add a little rice, and stew it gently. When the chop is tender, turn it with the rice and gravy on to a hot dish, spread the Potatoes in a thick layer over the top, baste them with ] or 2 table- spoonfuls of butter, and brown them in a brisk oven or under a salamander. Serve while hot on the same dish. (2) Trim some loin of mutton chops neatly, and spread over them some finely-chopped mint that has been fried in a little butter. Mash some cold boiled Potatoes together with loz. of butter, moistening them with a small quantity of milk, and seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Cover the chops with the Potatoes, completely enveloping them. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a fiat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when it boils, put in the chops, and fry them till nicely browned. When cooked, put the chops on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire to drain off as much of the fat as possible. .Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, place the chops on it, garnish them with freshly-gathered mint and watercress, and serve. Potato Colcannon.—Peel, wash, and boil lib. of Potatoes, and when done mash them. Clean an equal bulk of cabbage or greens, put them in a separate saucepan, and boil them; take them out when done, drain and squeeze them quite dry, and chop them up very small. Mix these ingredients together, and add a large lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and the yolks of two or three eggs. Butter a pudding- dish, put in the mixture, place the dish in a quick oven, and bake for seven or eight minutes. When done, turn it out on to a flat vegetable-dish, and serve. Potato Cones.—Peel and boil plenty of floury Potatoes, and when soft drain and mash them to a smooth paste, adding butter and milk to moisten them. Shape the paste into several small cones, brush them over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten egg, and lay them carefully in a frying-basket, being careful not to damage their shape. Put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan and place it on the fire until it boils; then put in the basket with the cones, and fry them a bright golden brown. Drain them when cooked, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread an ornamental disli-paper, garnish them with fried parsley (see Fig. 295), and serve. Potatoes—continued. Potato Cream with Rum.—Dissolve Joz. of gelatine in a glass of water. Put the yolks of eight eggs into a stew- pan with 1 table-spoonful of Potato-starch and 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar; stir the mixture with a spoon, adding gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and con- tinue stirring it over a slow fire till thick and on the point of boiling; then pour it into a basin and leave till cool. Pour 1 wineglassful of rum into 1 teacupful of apricot marmalade, ami when well mixed stir it into the above cream; then add the dissolved gelatine. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and stir it over ice till thickened; then pour it into a cylinder- mould, and pack it in ice till set. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Potato Cream Soup.—Boil in 3qts. of water till reduced to 2qts. some veal-bones, a small knuckle bone of ham or a slice of pickled pork, and a bunch of vegetables. Finely chop an onion, and put it into the soup. Peel and boil two large Potatoes, and when cooked drain them and mash them, mixing in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk. Mix the Potato-cream with the soup, then strain it through a colander into a soup-tureen, season it with salt, pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and serve. Potato Cream Soup without Meat.—Peel and wash lib. of Potatoes, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and boil them. Chop up half-a-dozen each of carrots and onions, put them into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them likewise. Drain the Potatoes when they are done, mash them, and work up with them lqt. of milk and Jib. of butter. Rub this through a sieve into the saucepan containing the cooked vegetables, stir them all well, and the soup should be ready to be served, and as stiff as cream; if too thin add a thickening of flour, if too thick a little more milk. Potato Croquettes.—Take four large floury boiled Potatoes, add to them half their weight of butter and the same quantity of powdered white sugar. Put them into a mortar, and pound them together with a little salt, the grated peel of half a lemon, and two beaten eggs. Beat up the yolks of four eggs, roll the paste in the mortar into short thick shapes like a cork, dip them in the beaten yolks, and then roll them in sifted breadcrumbs; let them stand for an hour, then dip them in the beaten egg or brush it over them, roll them again in the breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling lard or butter. Lay them on paper to drain, arrange them on an ornamental paper, spread over a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. Potato Croustade.—Put lib. of the pulp of boiled Potatoes into a bowl, and mash it very smooth and dry; add the yolks of two eggs, set the bowl over the fire, and stir well until it is again dry. Form it into a case or shell brush it over with yolk of egg, put it in the oven, and bake to a light brown. Take it out, and it is ready for use. In the meantime pour 1 gill of white sauce into a saucepan, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, half that quantity of essence of anchovies, and the flesh of a lobster or half a tin of preserved lobster; set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and heat the mixture without letting it boil. Pour this sauce (which should be quite thick) into the Potato case, and serve. Potato Crulles.—Peel and wash the Potatoes, then cut them round and round in curls (see Fig. 296), something in the same manner that apples are peeled. Put two flat stewpans over the fire with an equal quantity of lard in each. When boiling, throw the crulles into one of the pans of lard, and fry them until just beginning to take colour, then take them out quickly with a drainer and throw them into the second pan of boiling lard. When nicely browned and soft, take the Potatoes out of the fat, and drain them for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the Potatoes on it, dredge a small quantity of salt over them, - and serve while very hot; or they make a very pretty garnish.