326 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fdr details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. stir in 1 teaspoonful of salt and loz. of butter, draw it to the side of the fire, let it stand in hot water for three minutes after the butter and salt are stirred in, and then pour it into a deep dish. Serve cream and sugar with it. Ground-Rice and Honey Pudding.—Boil J pint of white honey and skim it; make till, of butter hot, then turn it into the honey; put in also 1 breakfast-cupful of ground Rice, J pint of hot water, and 1 saltspoonful of bicar bonate of soda, which should have been previously dis solved in the water. Put the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir until thickly reduced. Butter a baking-dish, pour the mixture into it, level it over the surface with a spoon, and put it in a quick oven. When the pudding is nicely browned, cut it into squares or triangles, arrange them iii a group on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. Ground-Rice Milk. -Put 1 table spoonful of ground Rice into a basin, stir in a little milk until smooth, turn it into a saucepan, add more milk to make up 3 breakfast- cupfuls in all, flavour to taste with cinnamon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg, and boil until commencing to get thick. Then add sugar to taste, cook for a few minutes longer, and serve. Ground-Rice Pudding.—(1) Mix together eight eggs well beaten, lqt. of milk, and 3 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice, and stir over the fire till boiling. Stir in Jib. of butter, the grated rinds and strained juice of two lemons, and sugar to taste. Line a pudding-dish with puff paste, pour the pudding in, and hake. (2) Mix Jlli. of ground Rice Smoothly with 1 pint of milk, turn it into a lined saucepan, put in a small piece of stick vanilla, and stir it over the fire until hoiling and cooked. Leave it until cold, then mix with it 4oz. of sugar, 4oz. of slightly warmed butter, 1 teacupful of cream, and 4 wineglassful of brandy. Butter round the edge of a pie dish, line it with a strip of puff paste, pour in the pudding mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. (3) Boil 1 pint of milk for ten minutes with a piece of stick vanilla and caster sugar to taste, then remove the vamilla and stir in by degrees 2 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice. When the mixture is quite smooth, stir in the well- heaten yolks of four eggs. In about five minutes’ time, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and mix in Joz. of gelatine that has been dissolved in a small quantity of water. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the mixture, and set it on ice or in a cool place until firm. Pass a small jar of any kind of jam through a fine hair sieve, and beat it up with 1 wineglassful of sherry and the strained juice of half a lemon. When ready, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a dish, pour the jam round, and serve. (4) Boil 5 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice in lqt. of new milk together with a flavouring of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon, and keep stirring it till it boils. Then pour it into a bowl, and stir into it J pint of cream, Jib. of butter, Jib. of powdered white sugar, and, if it requires it, a little more cinnamon and nutmeg. Let it stand till cold. Wash Jib. of currants, dry them thoroughly, and sprinkle them with flour. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with the whites of four, and stir them into the pudding, a spoonful or two at a time, alternately with a spoonful or two of the floured currants; when all the eggs and currants are mixed in, add either J wineglassful of mixed wine and brandy or J wineglassful of rose-water, i’ut the pudding into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake it a light brown. (5) Put 4oz. of ground Rice into a basin with sufficient milk to form a smooth paste, put it into a saucepan with the remainder of lqt. of milk, and stir well over the fire until it boils. Add the white of one egg and the well- beaten yolks of two, Joz. of butter, and 3oz. of sugar, as well as 1 wineglassful of brandy and a flavouring of nutmeg. Turn the preparation at once into a pie-dish, set it in a sharp oven, bake for forty-five minutes, take it out, and serve. Rice—continued. (6) Put 3oz. of ground Rice into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, boil it until it thickens, turn it into a basin, and let it get cold. Mix in 6oz. each of crushed loaf sugar and warm butter, a few blanched and pounded bitter almonds, the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of nine. Put the mixture into a greased mould or dish, bake it until it is firm, turn it out on to a dish, stick pieces of blanched sweet almonds all over, and serve. (7) Put I teacupful of ground Rice into a lined stewpan with 1 pint of milk, and boil it until thick; then mix with it 2oz. of blanched and chopped almonds, Jib. each of caster sugar and warmed butter, the yolks of four, and the whites of eight well-beaten eggs. Mix thoroughly, turn it into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, stick all over the top some blanched and split sweet almonds, and serve. Ground-Rice Snow. -Put lqt. of milk over the fire, and when scalding hot stir into it 5 table-spoonfuls of ground Rice blended with a little cold water; stir it till it boils and begins to thicken, then add powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg to taste, and Jib. of powdered white sugar; continue stirring, and let it simmer for five minutes. Take it from the fire, pour it into a basin, beat into it IJoz. of butter, and let it get quite cold; then stir into it a flavouring of vanilla, lemon, or ratafia. Beat up in a large basin the whites of four eggs, add and beat in, a spoonful at a time, the boiled Rice after it has been flavoured; when it is all beaten into the whites, pour it into a mould wetted inside with cold water. When quite firm, turn it out. Serve cream with it. Ground Rice Souffle. —(1) Put 1 heaped table-spoonful of ground Rice in a basin, and mix it smoothly with a small quantity of cold milk; then stir in gradually J pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir it over the fire until boiling and thickened. Leave the Rice mixture until rather cold, then stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs, and flavour it with a few drops of any kind of essence liked. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff' froth, and mix them in lightly with the above. Turn the mixture into a souffle-mould, dust it over with caster sugar, and put it into a brisk oven. It will require about twenty minutes’ baking. When well risen and nicely browned on the top take the souffle out of the oven, and serve it at once in the same mould. (2) Blanch and pound 8oz. of sweet almonds and loz. of bitter almonds, put them into a basin, pour over 3 breakfast-cupfuls of nearly boiling milk, and strain through a fine cloth. Put 2oz. of ground Rice into a saucepan, stir in a little of the almond liquor, and, when smooth, pour in the remainder, keeping the mixture quite smooth; then add 2oz. of butter and a little salt, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Now add Jib. of powdered loaf sugar and two eggs, put the mixture into dariole- moulds lined with rich puff paste, dust them over with sugar, and bake for a few minutes, or until lightly browned. Take them out, and they are then ready for use. Ground-Rice Soup.—Prepare, skim, and strain sufficient white stock to make the required quantity of soup, season it nicely, and for each quart of soup allow IJ breakfast- cupfuls of ground Rice. Mix them together, and boil gently until the Rice is cooked, stirring constantly. When ready, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. Iced Rice Pudding.—(1) Put Jib. of blanched Rice into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of boiled cream and 12oz. of sugar, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for an hour. Let the mixture cool, then put it into a freezer ; when it is partly frozen add the two whites of egg of Italian meringue, and continue to work with the spatula until it is quite frozen. Have ready about an equal quantity of finely-chopped preserved fruits, stir them in, turn the mixture into a mould packed in ice, and let it remain with the cover on for about two hours. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with wine sauce in a sauceboat.