TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rhubarb—continued. empty the bowl into a preserving-pan, put it on the stove, and let it boil very slowly for three-quarters-of-an-hour; then move the pan from the stove, let the jam cool a little, and put it into jars. When quite cold, put a piece of white paper soaked in brandy on the top of the jam in each jar, and cover so as to keep it air-tight. (2) Crit up into convenient lengths 121b. of Rhubarb, first wiping the sticks and peeling them ; put them into a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, and stew them over a slow' fire until quite tender; then put in 121b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of four large lemons, and Jib. of sweet almonds that have been blanched and cut into thin fillets. Boil the jam for three-quarters-of-an-hour longer, keeping it constantly stirred and skimmed. When ready, pour the jam into jars, almost filling them to the top, and leave them until the following day. Cut as many rounds of paper as there are jars of jam, and dip them in brandy; put a round of paper in each jar, cover with parchment, tie them down, and stow them away in a dry store-cupboard. (3) Select large green sticks of Rhubarb, and cut them into pieces about lin. long. Weigh the Rhubarb, and for each 31b. allow the same quantity of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar and the juice and grated peel of twro large lemons. Put the Rhubarb with the lemon-juice and peel into a preserving- pan, and boil it gently for two hours; then put in the sugar, and boil it for half-an-hour longer, stirring fre- quently. The Rhubarb should retain its green colour. If preferred, the lemon-peel may be put in whole, and removed when the jam is finished. When reduced to a pulp, turn the jam into jars, and leave it until cold; then cover the jars, and tie them round with string. Rhubarb Jelly.—Select 81b. of nice red Rhubarb, wipe the stalks, cut them into convenient lengths, and put them in a stone or earthenware jar •with the thinly-pared rinds of three large lemons. Cover the jar, and place it in a moderate oven until the Rhubarb is tender. When cooked, strain the juice from the fruit into a lined sauce- pan, squeeze the juice of the three lemons into it, and boil very gently for half-an-hour. At the end of that time strain the juice through a jelly-bag and measure it, and for every breakfast-cupful allow ] J breakfast-cupfuls of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Dissolve the sugar in the juice, and boil the mixture for three-quarters-of-an-hour, keeping it well skimmed and stirred all the time. Pour the jelly into jars, and leave it until the following day; then put in each jar a round of paper that has been dipped in brandy, and cover them with parchment, tying them down tightly. Keep the jelly in a dry store cup- board. Rhubarb-Jelly Border with Whipped Cream.—Cut up into pieces 31b. of Rhubarb, put them into a preserving- pan with an equal quantity of sugar, and pour over a little water to prevent the pieces burning or sticking to the bottom. Set the pan over a very slow fire, and stir well until the fruit is quite soft; then pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, and to each quart of pulp mix in Fig. 375. Border Moulds (Adams and Son). 2oz. of dissolved gelatine. Turn the preparation into an orna- mental border mould (see Fig. 375), and let it set firm. Turn it out on to a dish, fill the centre with well-whipped cream, and serve. Rhubarb Marmalade.—String and cut into very small pieces lqt. of Rhubarb. Peel thinly half-a-dozen oranges, and cut the yellow rind into thin shreds; free the oranges of all the white pith, cut them into slices, and remove the pips. Put the Rhubarb into a pan with the oranges, their peels, and lAlb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and place the pan over a gentle fire. Stir the mixture until reduced Rhubarb—continued. to the usual consistency of marmalade; then turn it into jars and leave it until the following day. Put in each jar a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover them with parchment, and tie down. This mar- malade is excellent, and will keep for some time. Rhubarb with Meringue.—Cut the Rhubarb into short lengths, put it in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stew gently until tender; then mash it together with about lib. of moist sugar, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes longer; then turn it into a pie-dish. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, spread it over the Rhubarb, and put in a brisk oven until lightly browned. Serve hot. Rhubarb-and-Orange Jam.—Rub the stalks of 31b. of young Rhubarb with a damp cloth, then cut them into pieces about 2Jin. long. Put 311 >. of oranges into a preserv- ing-pan with plenty of cold water, and boil them slowly at the edge of the fire for three hours. At the end of that time drain the oranges, and cut each into four pieces. A silver knife is the best thing to use for this purpose. Put 61b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into the preserving-pan with just sufficient water at the bottom to prevent it from burning, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling; then put in the oranges and Rhubarb, stir it again till boiling, move the pan to the edge of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for fifteen minutes. Turn the preserve into jars, and leave it until cold; then put a round of brandied paper on the top of each, cover with parchment, and tie them round with fine twine. Keep the jars in a dry store-cupboard till used. Rhubarb Pie.—Pare off the leaves, and peel the stalks from two bunches of fine Rhubarb ; cut them into small pieces about Ain. long, put them in a basin with 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and mix well. Place them in a pie- dish, cover with paste, brush the surface with beaten egg, and bake for fifty minutes in a moderate oven. Bring the pie to the oven door, sprinkle over powdered loaf sugar, and put it into the oven again to melt the sugar. Take it out when done, and serve either hot or cold. Rhubarb Pudding (Baked).—(1) Put a few thin slices of well-buttered bread at the bottom of a pie-dish, moisten them with a little boiling water, then put in a layer of Rhubarb cut up into small pieces, and sprinkle a good supply of moist sugar over them, as well as a little grated rind of lemon. Continue in this way until the dish is full, finish- ing with the sugar; place a few small lumps of butter on the top, set the dish in the oven, and bake. Take it out when the surface is well browned, and serve. (2) Boiled.—Peel five or six sticks of Rhubarb, cut them in pieces, put them into a basin lined with a suet crust, sprinkle in Jib. of moist sugar, cover with a crust, tie a floured cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, ami boil for two hours or a little longer. Turn it out when done, and serve. Rhubarb Shape.—Skin and cut the Rhubarb into small pieces, put it in a pan with a sufficient quantity of crushed loaf sugar and a small quantity of water, and let it simmer gently. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour smooth with a little water, and when the Rhubarb is almost done stir it in. Continue stirring it over the fire until the cornflour is i cooked, then pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and set it in a cold temperature. When ready to serve, turn the Rhubarb on to a glass dish, and pour some wlupped cream over it. Rhubarb Sherbet. —Wash six or eight sticks of Rhubarb, dry them well, cut them up, and boil them in lqt. of water for ten minutes. Put into a jug 2 table-spoonfuls of clarified sugar and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon. Strain the liquor of the Rhubarb through a cloth over the sugar and lemon-peel in the jug, and let it stand for five or six hours, when it will be fit to drink. Rhubarb Tartlets.—Select some nice young Rhubarb, wipe it on a cloth, cut it into convenient lengths, put it in a stewpan with two or three small pieces of lemon-peel, the juice of a lemon, a small quantity of water, and plenty