392 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For detail* respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. with salt, cayenne, and add a little sugar. Boil the Sauce for ten minutes, then mix ■with it 2 large table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir over the lire for fifteen minutes. Lastly mix with the Sauce 2 table- spoonfuls of cream, and serve it. (3) Prepare some thin brown Sauce, put into it about 1 teaspoonful of unmixed mustard and 1 table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick. This Sauce is generally served with boiled fish or mutton. (4) Prepare some rather thin cream Sauce, and while in the saucepan grate in about 1 table-spoonful of Parmesan cheese, and stir it by the fire till melted. This Sauce should be served very hot. Military Sauce (aux Militaires).—Put into a stewpan a slice of ham, half a head of celery cut up, some chervil, thyme, tarragon, parsley, a bay-leaf, a shallot, half a sliced lemon, b teacupful of strong stock, and the same.quan- tity of white wine. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer gently till the moisture is reduced to half its original bulk. Strain the Sauce and serve it. Minim’s Sauce.—Beat some yolks of eggs in salad-oil, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it over the fire till thick. It is then ready for serving. Mirepoix Sauce.—Put an equal quantity of finely-chopped carrot and onion into a saucepan with a piece of chopped celery and some trimmings of bacon, and fry them till brown; then pour in lqt. of broth, 1 wineglassful of Chablis, and some mushroom trimmings, fine herbs, and the pulp of a lemon freed of the pips. Boil the Sauce till stiffly reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Mixed Sauce (Melangee).—Put an equal quantity of chopped mushrooms and onions into a saucepan with some chopped parsley and 1 table-spoonful of butter, and fry till lightly browned; then stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and b pint of vinegar, seasoning with pepper and salt to taste. Let the Sauce simmer for a-quarter-of-an- hour, then serve it. Musketeer Sauce (a la Mousquetaire).—Put one shallot, some tarragon, cress, and chervil leaves, into a mortar, and pound them. Mix with the pounded leaves 1 dessert- spoonful of meat glaze, I teaspoonful of mustard, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Pass the Sauce mixture through a broth-napkin, mix with it 4 teacupful of olive oil and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and serve. Neapolitan Sauce (a la Napolitaine).—Reduce in a sauce- pan 2 table-spoonfuls of raw mirepoix with |oz. of butter; after five minutes moisten it with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, b pint of Spanish Sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato Sauce, and 2 table-spoonfuls of essence of game. Reduce for ten minutes, and rub through a sieve. Nonpareil Sauce.—Chop a slice of boiled ham, an equal quantity of breast of cooked chicken, a pickled cucumber, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, one anchovy freed of skin and bone, a head of shallot, and a little parsley. Put them into a saucepan with some ketchup, and boil all together for a few minutes. Serve with either meat or fish. Normandy Sauce (a la Normande).—To l pint of velvet Sauce (veloutfj) add 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Reduce the Sauce for ten minutes, and place in it 2 table-spoonfuls of fish stock. Let it just boil again, then add two yolks of eggs and the juice of half a lemon, strain through a fine sieve, and stir in loz. of fresh butter. This Sauce should be stiff. Palestine Sauce.—Peel and turn twelve Jerusalem artichokes into small balls, put them into a saucepan with \ table- spoonful of sugar and 2ioz. of butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; then pour in 1j pints of bechamel Sauce, and b pint of white broth, and let the Sauce simmer gently till the artichokes are tender, skim- ming occasionally. Mix with the Sauce a liaison of three yolks of eggs, stir it quickly, and it is then ready for serving. Sauces—continued. Palestine Sauce a la Bourgeoise.—Peel and cut twelve artichokes into round balls, put them in a stewpan, and toss them over the fire with a little butter and sugar till well covered. Mix with the artichokes b table-spoonful of flour, and then stir in gradually 3 teacupfuls of white Sauce. Boil the artichokes very gently till quite tender, season the Sauce with a little salt, thicken it with a liaison of yolks of eggs, and stir it quickly by the side of the fire, but do not boil it again. It is then ready for serving. Palestine Sauce aux Maigre.—Glaze some balls of arti- chokes in butter and sugar as directed for Palestine Sauce ; then dredge over them 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and stew the arti- chokes gently till they are tender. Add salt and pepper to taste, stir in 1 table-spoonful of butter and a liaison of beaten yolks of eggs, and stir quickly till thick and smooth ; then serve it. The Sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. Fapillote Sauce.—(1) Chop two onions, put them into a stewpan with £oz. of scraped fat bacon, and stir them over the fire for five minutes; then pour in 1 pint of brown sauce. When boiling, put in with the Sauce 1 table- spoonful each of chopped parsley and mushrooms, a small quantity of scraped garlic, a lump of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir the Sauce, and boil it till reduced to a creamy thickness; then take it off the fire, and leave it till cold. This Sauce is generally used for cutlets a la Maintenon. (2) Put 1 teacupful of chopped mushrooms and b tea- cupful of chopped shallots into a saucepan with 2 table- spoonfuls of scraped fat bacon, and fry them for ten minutes; then stir in a little flour, and when well mixed pour in gradually lqt. of half glaze. Let the glaze simmer for ten minutes, then add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, b teaspoonful of caster sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir the Sauce over the fire, and boil it quickly till reduced to a creamy thick- ness ; then pour it into a basin, and use when required. Pascaline Sauce.—Prepare some rather thin Italian Sauce. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a little lemon-juice, and stir them into the Sauce by the side of the fire, continu- ing to stir it till thick, but not letting it boil. When ready to serve the Sauce, mix with it a little blanched and chopped parsley. Perigueux Sauce (a la Perigueux).—(1) Peel and chop four truffles, put them into a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of sherry, and boil for a minute; then pour in 1 pint of half glaze, and add a little salt and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Stir the Sauce over the fire till boiling, then serve it. (2) Put into a stewpan fib. of ham cut into large squares, one sliced onion, one shallot, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 1 pinch of mignonette pepper. Fry them till the onion is lightly browned, then add b flint of Madeira, and boil it till reduced to one half its original quantity. Mix with the above ingredients lb pints of Spanish Sauce, b pint of veal broth, and b pint of essence of truffles. When boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twenty minutes. Skim the Sauce and strain it into another saucepan, boil it till reduced to the consistency of thick cream, add 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped truffles that have been cooked in Madeira, and serve. (3) Chop some lean ham, one onion, and one shallot, put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, and fry them till brown; then pour in 1 pint of white wine, and boil it till reduced to about half its original quantity. Stir into the Sauce the same quantity of reduced stock, a few pieces of chopped truffles, and some brown thickening. Let it simmer for some minutes longer, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, add a few slices of truffles boiled in wine, and serve. (4) Put into a saucepan H pints of thin Spanish Sauce, 4 pint of essence of mushrooms, and an equal quantity of essence of truffles. Boil the Sauce till thickly reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, mix with it about