THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. PLATE.—A name applied generally to all metal goods which are plated, that is, covered with silver or gold in a thin layer, such as dishes, cups, forks, &c. PLATES (Fr. Assiettes; Ger. Teller; It at. Tondi).— these form a very important part of the dinner service, sometimes not sufficiently cared for by host or cook. When required hot, plates ought to be served just hot enough to be handled without inconvenience; they should Fig. 259. Wicker Tin-lined Plate-carrier. be changed at every helping, and with that intention it is advisable to have in every dining-room a tin-lined basket or plate-carrier, as it is called (see Fig. 259), for the removal of dirty plates. It would be impossible, in this Encyclopedia, to describe all the different plates that are in use; the deep plate for soup, the broad plate for meats, the smaller plate for sweets, and the still smaller plate for cheese. Then there are plates fitted with metal bottoms to hold hot water, breakfast-plates, tea-plates, dessert-plates, bread-and-butter plates, cake-plates, and many others which can be seen in any first-class crockery-shop. PLOVERS (Fr. Pluviers; Ger. Reigenpfeifer; Ital. Iiviere; 8p. Avefrias).—At one time Plovers were much prized ^ as game birds. They belong to the family Oharadridse, of which there are numerous kinds in Europe and America. The Golden, Yellow, or Green Plover (Char- acinus pluvialis) is considered the best for cooking. The Grey Plover is Squatcirola cinerea. eSSs °f the Plover are the most highly esteemed, the chief supply coming from Holland. They are generally plain boiled, and then used in a variety of ways, either for garnishes or as separate dishes. Baked Fillets of Plovers.—Cut the fillets off the breasts of the Plovers and cut each fillet into halves. Butter a baking- tm, lay in the fillets, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Chop llP the remainder of the birds, put them in a stewpan to- gether with a peeled and sliced carrot and onion, loz. of butter, and some trimmings of bacon, and toss them over the fire until beginning to brown. Put hi a few mush rooms or mushroom trimmings, cover with clear stock, and stew the whole gently at the edge of the fire for about two horn's-and-a,-half. Strain the liquor into a basin, and when somewhat cooled skim off all the fat. Put loz. of butter and loz. of flour into a stewpan and mix them oa ei the fire, then stir in gradually the above liquor. Place the fillets in the oven for a few minutes, and when they are set, take them out and put them in the sauce. Plovers—continued. Let the whole simmer at the side of the fire for about ten minutes; then arrange the fillets on a hot dish, pour their sauce over them, garnish with sippets of fried bread, and serve. Boiled Plovers’ Eggs.—Put a dozen or so Plovers’ eg^s into a saucepan of water and boil for eight minutes, when they should be done and quite hard. They may be served on a napkin, piled on a dish with a circle of clear aspic jelly, or the shells may be taken off and a little bechamel sauce poured over them. If they are required to be soft boiled, two minutes will be sufficient to cook them. Braised Plovers.—Line a braising-pan with slices of bacon and beef about Ain. thick, put in two carrots, two small onions, a bunch of thyme and laurel-leaves, some mixed herbs, pepper and salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg and mixed spice. Put in the birds, fix on the lid as tightly as possible, solder the edges of the pan so that no air may get in, cover the lid with live embers, and let the contents simmer. 5\ hen the birds are nearly cooked, lessen the heat and finish them. When cooked, put the birds on a hot dish and stand them near the fire. Skim all the fat off the cooking liquor, then pass it through a fine hair sieve over the birds, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, garnish the dish with egg croquettes and watercress (see Fig. 2G0), and serve. Broiled Plovers.—Pick, singe, draw, and wipe six fine fat plovers: pick out the eyes, split them through the back without separating the parts, and place them on a dish. Season with one pinch of salt, half pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil. Rub the seasoning in well, and put the birds on a broiler to cook for four minutes on each side. Dress them on a hot dish with six pieces of toast, spread over lgill. of maitre-d'hotel butter, decorate with a little watercress, ami serve. Capilotade of Plovers.—Cut into halves four cold roasted Plovers, pare off the skin, ami put them into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of Madeira, 2 table-spoonfuls of Italian sauce, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan on the fire and let the contents simmer gently for an hour; then take the halves of Plovers out, and arrange them on a dish with pieces of fried bread between them. Skim the liquor, add the juice of a lemon, pour it over the Plovers, and serve. Chaudfroid of Plovers.—Cut into quarters four Plovers that have been baked or roasted ami are quite cold, take off the skin, and remove all the bones. Put their entrails into a mortar, pound them, and rub them through a fine sieve. Prepare a little thick gravy or extract of game with the bones and trimmings of the Plovers, strain it through a sieve, take off the fat, reduce it to half-glaze, add h pint of brown sauce to thicken it, boil it for a few minutes, and it is ready for use. Pour the gravy gradually into the pounded entrails, and add one third of its quantity of liquid aspic-jelly. When this sauce is cool, stir it over ice until thick; dip the quarters of Plovers into it, giving them a good coating, arrange them on a baking-slieet, and let the sauce set. Remove the superfluous sauce from the quarters of Plovers, pile them on a dish, with their legs turned to the bottom and the wings to the top in the ^ centre of a border of aspic jelly, and serve. Fillets of B,oasted Plovers on Potatoes.—Clean the birds, cover with thin slices of bacon, and wrap them round