432 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. points to meet the lower ones, so that only one fold remains at the top. Take the two corners of this top fold and bend them inside between the upper and under portions of the Serviette so as to form a triangle (Fig. 545). Be sure, when bending these folds inside, to keep the top point of the triangle sharp and all the edges even. The dotted lines in the last illustration show where the next fold is to be made. Take the upper portion of the triangle at point A, fold it over at the dotted line, com mencing quite at the point of the triangle, then make a second fold into the middle as in Fig. 546. Double over twice from point B in a similar manner, then turn over the Serviette, and fold the other sides of the triangle in the same way. Double up the projecting points as in dicated by the dotted line in Fig. 546, and stand up the tent as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. Tower.—Lay the napkin quite open flat on the table, with one point towards you, or in a diamond shape; Fig. 548. take the lower point, and bring it over so that it comes about lin. below the top point. Double over the bottom edge in four folds, each about 2in. wide (Fig. 547), and crease them down firmly; hold the napkin in your hand by the left-hand corner, and turn it round and round the hand, tucking the other end firmly underneath. Stand it Serviettes—continued. on the table and turn over one of the points as seen in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. Tyrolese.—Have the Serviette in the usual three fold lengthwise before you, double the sides into the middle (Fig. 548), fold over the corners A and B to meet on the centre line (Fig. 548a), and turn the Serviette over, having the point towards you ; cross the points C and D, tucking the one into the upper fold of the other. This portion is the back of the design, as shown completed in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. Fig. 548a. . Water-lily, No. 1.—'Take a perfectly square, large-sized table- napkin, and fold it so that the four corners meet in the centre; without turning the napkin, again fold the four corners into the centre. Repeat this once more, then care- fully turn the napkin over, and again fold the corners to meet in the centre. Turn the napkin over again, Fig. 549. The Water-lily, No. 1. draw back the first four comers from the centre to form the leaves, stand up the remaining points as petals (see Fig. 549), and place a roll of bread in the centre to support the small points. Water-Lily, No. 2.—To make the more elaborate design, have a square Serviette open on the table, and fold the corners to meet exactly in the centre ; repeat this twice more being particular to flatten all the folds well; then turn over the Serviette, and again fold the corners to the centre. Press these points firmly with the left hand, and with the right hand bring forward at each corner the four points that will be found on the under-side of the Serviette. In making these stand up at the right side do not draw them up at all roughly, and let the forefinger of the left hand keep the inside of each point in place, whilst with the right hand you form the shape of the petal with the point drawn up from underneath. Still hold down the centre whilst you draw up from between the comers the second set of petals from the under-side; these will not stand up very steadily until you bring up the third set again from under the corners, and this third set can be pulled up firmly. So long as the inside point of comer is well held down with the right fore finger these last petals hold the lily in a compact shape, as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2.