THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 286 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. joints. To truss for roasting, the legs are pinned close to the body by means of skewers, and the head is thrust back into a position, and held there by a skewer passed through the mouth into the neck; or it may be tied with string passed under the fore-legs and fastened over the Fig. 339. Rabbit Trussed for Boiling shoulder. When a Rabbit is trussed for boiling, the head is drawn round to the side (see Fig. 339) and fastened to the body with a skewer; the fore-legs are then fastened backwards, and the hind-legs forward. Attereaux of Rabbits a l’ltalienne.—Take the fillets of four young Rabbits, and cut them into pieces lin. square. Have 4 table-spoonfuls of mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, and six shallots chopped fine, put them to fry with a lump of butter over a slow fire till they are done; then put in the bits of Rabbit and fry gently. When nearly done, drain them, and season with a little salt and pepper. Take the sweet herbs in which they have been filed, and make a sauce for the attereaux as follows: Add 1 table-spoonful of Hour to the herbs, mix it well and smooth with a rvooden spoon, moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of good stock broth, and let the whole boil until the Hour is quite done. Skim off the butter, reduce the sauce until it is thick, and then further thicken by adding the yolks of two eggs. Throw into this sauce the square pieces of Rabbits, and let them get quite cold. Have ready a few pieces of boiled calf’s udder (some cooks say that pieces of fat boiled bacon are quite as good), and cut them to half the breadth of the pieces of Rabbits, but not so thick. Run an attelettc first through one of the pieces of Rabbit dipped in the sauce, next through a piece of udder, and so on until the attelette is nearly but not quite full, taking care that pieces of Rabbit are the last and first on. Trim the sides of the bits after trussing, baste with sauce, and dip in fine breadcrumbs. Fiy till of a fine colour, drain, and serve on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, with Italian sauce in a boat. Dipping into a thick, well-seasoned batter, and frying in plenty of fat, is also recommended. Baked Rabbit.—(1) Cut a Rabbit into joints, put it into a stewpan with an onion and a small quantity of water, and stew gently until tender; then put the pieces of Rabbit in a deep pie-dish. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 teacupful of the liquor in which the Rabbit was stewed, and stir it over the fire until thickened ; season it with 1 table-spoonful of soy and 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, also a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour it over the Rabbit. Make the following batter: Mix Jib. of finely-chopped beef-suet with 41b. of flour, and stir in two well-beaten eggs, with a sufficient quantity of milk to bring it to the proper consistency. When quite smooth, pour the batter over the Rabbit, and bake it in a moderate oven for an- hour-and-a-quarter. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve the Rabbit while hot. (2) Clean a Rabbit, and lard the fleshy parts with strips of salted pork. Line the bottom of a baking-disli with slices of carrots and onions, put in the Rabbit, dredge it over with salt and pepper, and put a few pieces of butter on the top. Pour in sufficient cold water just to cover the bottom of the dish, and put it in a brisk oven. In a-quarter-of-an-hour’s time, turn the Rabbit over on to the other side, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and finish baking it, basting frequently with the drip- pings in the dish. If the gravy in the dish is dried up before the Rabbit is cooked, pour in a little broth or water. When cooked, put the Rabbit on a hot dish; squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the gravy, then Rabbits—continued. pour it through a fine hair sieve over the Rabbit, garnish with watercress, and serve. Baked Tinned Rabbit.—-Melt the jelly in a 2lb. tin of Rabbit, pour it into a saucepan, add J gill of well-seasoned gravy, and put them at the side of the fire to keep hot. Mince Jib. of ham or bacon, mix in 1 teaspoonful each of thyme and finely-chopped parsley, double that quantity of marjoram, 3oz. of sifted or grated breadcrumbs, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Put a layer of this at the bottom of a pie-dish, a layer of Rabbit on top of that, and so on until the dish is full, or the materials are used up. Pour over the gravy, put the dish with a cover over it into a moderate oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Serve very hot. Barbecued Rabbit.—Skin and clean a Rabbit, chop off its head, open it all the way down the belly from the neck to the tail, wash it well, put it flat in a bowl or dish, pour over sufficient salted water to cover it, put another dish with a weight on the top of it, and let it soak for about half-an-liour. Take it out, wipe it dry with a cloth, score it nine or ten times down the sides where the meat is thickest, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done, turning it frequently so as to have both sides equally cooked. When cooked, put it on a dish or plate, which must be kept very hot; dust the Rabbit over with salt and pepper, pour over warm butter, and turn the Rabbit continually, so as to absorb as much of the butter as possible. Put it on to a clean hot dish, Fig. 340. Barbecued Rabbit. cover it over, place it in the oven for five or six minutes, take it out, pour over 1 table-spoonful of made mustard mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot vinegar, garnish the dish with fried parsley (see Fig. 340), and serve at once. Blanquette of Rabbits.'—(1) Skin and clean a couple of Rabbits, cut them up, put them into a saucepan with a little warmed butter and two or three small onions, and cook them for a few minutes. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, add Goz. of ham cut into small pieces, and cook for five minutes longer; then add 1 tea- cupful of Hour, and pour over sufficient broth and white wine in equal proportions to cover them. Stir it until the liquor boils, add a small bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and a dozen or so mushrooms, and boil quickly for eight or ten minutes to'reduce the liquor to one-tliird of its original quantity; then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is done. When cooked, skim off the fat, add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with a little cream to thicken it, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, sprinkle over a little pepper and parsley, remove the bunch of sweet herbs, turn the con- tents of the saucepan on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Take two good Rabbits, bone them, and remove the fillets; cut off the hind quarters, put them into a saute pan •with some butter, cover with well-buttered paper, and put the pan in the oven for about lialf-an-hour. When done let them get cold, then cut up the meat into very small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with two or three truffles, Jib. of tongue chopped fine, 1 gill of white sauce, a little chicken glaze, and six yolks of eggs, season- ing with cayenne pepper and salt; bring to a boil, and then pour it out on to a flat dish and let it cool. When cold, proceed as for croquettes. When cold, cut the fillets