THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 375 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salsify—continued. Boiled Salsify with Cheese.—Boil some scraped roots of Salsify in acidulated water till tender, then drain them, and cut them into equal-sized pieces ; put them in a sauce- pan with some warmed blitter, grate in some cheese, and toss them over the fire. Put some slices of hot buttered toast on a hot dish, pour the Salsify and cheese over it, and serve. Tried Salsify.—Scrape off the outside of as much Salsify as required, cut it into slices, dip them first into beaten egg and then into sifted breadcrumbs, plunge them into a pan of boiling lard, and fry them. Take them out, drain them well, and serve as desired. Salsify a la Poulette.—Scrape fourteen or fifteen young heads of Salsify, cut them into 3in. lengths, and throw them into acidulated water. Cut into small pieces a head of celery, one turnip, one carrot, and two onions; put them into a stewpan 'with Jib. of lean ham, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and two bay-leaves, and Jib. of beef-suet chopped fine; toss them over a brisk fire for ten or twelve minutes, then stir in 4 table-spoonfuls of flour and the strained juice of one lemon. Pour in gradually 2qts. of water and continue stirring till it boils, then add the Salsify; put the lid on the stewpan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently. When cooked, take out the heads of Salsify, and drain them. Put 1 pint of white sauce in a stewpan with 4 pint of white stock, stir it over a brisk fire, and when boiling add seventeen or eighteen button-mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg, sugar, pepper, and salt; add the Salsify, and let all simmer for half-an- hour. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the Salsify on it, thicken the sauce with a liaison of two yolks of eggs beaten with 1 teacupful of cream, stir it over the lire till thick, but do not let it boil. Pour the sauce over the Salsify, garnish with the mushrooms, and serve. Salsify in Aspic.—Procure a mould the same size as the dish intended to serve the Salsify on. Take enough boiled Salsify to fill the mould, and cut it into pieces the same length; dip the pieces of Salsify in a little half-set aspic, and stick them round the mould in an upright position; fill the middle with small pieces of Salsify, and season them with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a little oil and vinegar, then pour in some tepid aspic and stand the mould on ice. When the jelly has set, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Salsify Cakes or Mock Oysters.—Scrape the roots, and steep the Salsify in cold water for fifteen minutes. Boil the Salsify, and when tender drain and leave it till cold, then mash it and remove all the fibre; add 1 table-spoon- ful of butter, a little milk, and two eggs to every 3 tea- cupfuls of the mixture, previously beating them. Shape the above into round cakes, dredge flour over them, and fry them in butter till nicely browned. Put each cake in a scallop shell, place them on a dish, and serve. Salsify Croquettes. --Thinly peel the Salsify, and boil it till tender. When cooked, drain the roots, mash them, and mix with each breakfast-cupful a small lump of butter, 1 teaspoonful of mixed salt and pepper, the yolk of one egg, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Pound the above ingredients together, then flour the hands and shape the mixture into small balls; fry them in boiling lard till lightly browned, then drain them, arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salsify Fritters. -Scrape some heads of Salsify, soak them in vinegar and water, then boil them in salted water with a little flour in it. When cooked, drain the heads of Salsify, cut them into equal-sized pieces, mask them with white sauce, and leave till cold. Dip each piece into fry- ing-batter, then plunge them into boiling fat, and brown them. Drain the fritters, arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salsify with Parmesan Cheese. -Prepare the Salsify, cut it into short lengths, and boil it until tender with a Salsify —continued. moderate quantity of salt in the water. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful of flour and mix them over the lire, then stir in sufficient of the cooking-liquor of the Salsify to make the sauce, add 2oz. of grated Par- mesan cheese, and stir it with a wooden spoon until thick and smooth. Put the Salsify on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Salsify Fatties.—(1) Scrape off the outer skin of some roots of Salsify, cut them into pieces about lin. in length, and throw them into a basin of cold water acidulated with lemon- juice. Have a saucepan of boiling water in readiness over the fire, put in it a small lump of salt, a piece of butter, and a little lemon-juice; drain the Salsify, put it into the boiling water, and boil it quickly for half-an-hour or until quite tender. When cooked, take the pieces carefully out of the saucepan and lay them on a sieve in front of the fire to drain, but do not leave them long enough to get dry. Have ready a small quantity of veloute sauce; procure some small tins, butter them, and line them with a rich puff paste; lay two pieces of Salsify in each tin, and pour in each 1 table-spoonful of the sauce. Cover them with puff paste, trimming neatly round the edges, and bake them in a brisk oven until the paste has lightly browned. When cooked, turn the little shapes out of their tins, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Boil some Salsify, scrape it, cut it into small pieces, and pound them in a mortar. Bone and chop one or two anchovies, add them to the Salsify, season with pepper, and pound it again; a small quantity of pounded mace may be added if liked. Moisten the mixture with warmed butter and a sufficient quantity of cream to bring it to the consistency of a thick puree. Line some buttered patty-pans with a rich paste, trimming them evenly round the edges; fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them. Turn the Salsify mixture into a lined saucepan, and stir it over the tire until hot. When the patties are cooked, empty the rice out of them, and fill them with the above mixture. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish- paper over a dish, arrange the patties on it, and garnish them with parsley. Serve hot or cold. Salsify Salad. —Cut some boiled heads of Salsify into pieces 2in. long, and mix with them some chopped ravigote, salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar; when well mixed, add some half- set aspic. Fix a paste croustade on a dish, pile the salad on it, and serve. Salsify Sauce.—Scrape the roots of Salsify, and put them out of hand into acidulated water. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a saucepan with a little salt, and stir in gradually 1 pint of water. Continue stirring it over the fire till boiling, then put in the roots of Salsify, and let them stew gently till tender. When cooked, strain the roots, put them in a sauceboat with some butter sauce, and serve. Scalloped Salsify.—(1) Scrape a few roots of Salsify and cut them into lengths, throwing them out of hand into a basin of vinegar and water to preserve their whiteness. Afterwards boil them in salted water until tender. Next drain the Salsify; thicken sufficient of their liquor with flour and butter, to make the sauce, season to taste, and stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side. Beat the yolk of an egg with 4 teacupful of cream, strain it, and stir it into the sauce, which must not be allowed to boil again or it will curdle. Put the pieces of Salsify into the sauce and toss them about; a few drops of anchovy essence may be .added if the flavour is desired. Fill some scallop shells with the Salsify and sauce, squeeze in each a few drops of lemon-juice, and strew some finely- grated breadcrumb over. Put them in the oven until browned, then place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Boil some scraped roots of Salsify till tender; then drain, and cut them into small pieces. Put 1 table-spoon- ful of butter in a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and a little cream; stir it till well mixed, then add a