THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 369 B VOL. II. Salmon—continued. butter the interior of a baking-dish, lay the cutlets in it side by side, dredge them over with salt and pepper, and cover with a. sheet of buttered paper. Put the trim- mings of the fish into a saucepan with two peeled carrots, two peeled onions, a bunch of thyme, parsley, and a bay- leaf tied together, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in sufficient white stock to make the required quantity of sauce and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Peel a large cucumber, cut it into lin. lengths, then cut each piece into quarters and remove the seeds; throw them into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of salt and boil them. When nearly tender strain the cucumber, refresh in cold water, and drain again. Place about Hoz. of butter in a flat stewpan and melt it, then put in the pieces of cucumber with a small quantity of finely-minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste; cover*the pan, and keep the contents warm at the side of the fire. Place the cutlets of Salmon in the oven and bake them for about ten minutes. Put ^oz. of butter and l table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan and stir them over the fire till nicely browned, then strain in the liquor off the trimmings of the fish, put in a small quantity of minced parsley, and boil up, stirring all the time. Arrange the cutlets of Salmon in a circle on a hot dish, pile the pieces of cucumber in the centre, pour the sauce over, and serve. Salmon Cutlets with Gherkin Sauce.—Trim some slices of Salmon into cutlets, beat them slightly, flour them, and dip them into eggs beaten with a little chopped parsley and onion, then roll them in finely-grated bread- crumb. Put a piece of butter in a flat stewpan and when melted place the cutlets in and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain the cutlets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some gherkin sauce in the centre, and serve. Salmon Cutlets with Gravy.—Cut the Salmon into slices 4in. thick, and dredge them over with flour and a small quantity of white pepper; put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the cutlets and fry them a golden brown. As the cutlets are cooked put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain off the fat, and keep them hot. Sift l table-spoonful of flour in with the cooking-butter in the pan, mix them well with a wooden spoon, and stir in gradually 1 tea- cupful of good beef gravy, having previously made it hot, 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, 1 table-spoonful each of mush- room ketchup, Harvey sauce, and anchovy sauce, and i table-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. When the sauce is on the point of boiling put in the cutlets and keep them simmering gently at the side of the lire till tender. Arrange the cutlets on a very hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve immediately. Salmon Cutlets with Milanaise Sauce.—Cut a piece of Salmon into slices, and cut each slice into halves; trim away the skin and bone. Dip each piece in a little white wine, wrap them in sheets of buttered writing-paper, and secure them firmly at the edges. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when boiling fry the Salmon in it. When cooked, remove the papers from the Salmon, place them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of Milanaise sauce. Salmon Cutlets with Oyster Sauce.—Cut three large slices from the middle of a Salmon, and boil them in salted water. Put 1 teaspoonful of chopped onions in a saucepan with a little oil, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, but do not colour them. Cut four dozen oysters into small pieces, put them in with the onions, and stir them over the fire till warmed through; then mix in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, \ teacupful of oyster-liquor, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, a little essence of anchovies, and 1 pinch eacli of salt and cayenne pepper; stir the above ingredients over tbe fire, let them boil for a few minutes, stir in quickly the beaten yolks of four eggs, and keep it on the fire for half a minute longer. Pour the sauce on a dish and leave it till cold. Put the slices of Salmon on the sauce, brush them over with beaten egg, and Salmon—continued. sprinkle breadcrumbs over; brown them in a hot oven, garnish round with oysters, pour some lobster sauce over the fish, and serve. Salmon in Jelly.—Cut a fine piece out from the centre of a Salmon, and boil it together with the head and tail; when done, lift it out of the water very carefully not to break it, and leave it on the fish-kettle strainer to get cold, being careful to keep it in an upright posi- tion. He move all the flesh from the head, shoulders, and tail, season well with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley, put it into a flat oval tin, and mix it up well with some liquid aspic jelly, filling the mould so that it lies flat and even at the top; set this on ice to cool. Meantime brush the Salmon with cold liquid jelly, repeat- ing this three or four times. , Take a cold dish, and turn it upside down on the top of the jelly in the mould, taking- care that it should be in the centre; turn dish anil mould together upside down, lift off the mould, and place the Salmon carefully on the shape. Brush over once again with liquid jelly, decorate the top with small jelly shapes, Fig. 440. Salmon in Jelly. and garnish round the dish with croutons of jelly arranged alternately with halves of hard-boiled eggs stuffed with anchovy-flavoured fish forcemeat (see Fig. 440). Keep on ice till required for serving. Salmon Omelet.—Take about 2oz. of the flesh of some cold boiled Salmon, and shred it as finely as possible with a fork; put it into a basin with | table-spoonful of linely- minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and two or three small pieces of butter; break in three eggs, and beat the whole well together. Put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, place it over the fire, and when melted but not browned pour in the above mixture. Stir it over the fire with a flat sqioon until it begins to set, then cease stirring and toss it about for a minute or two. When delicately browned underneath, fold the Omelet over, and turn it on to a hot dish, the browned side upwards. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salmon Patties.—Skin and bone a nice piece of Salmon, chop the flesh well, and season it highly with grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, salt, and pepper; rub in a small quantity of fresh butter, and bind it with the beaten yolk of an egg. Butter some small tartlet-tins, line them with puff paste, and fill them with the Salmon mixture; cover each with a flat of paste, trim round the edges, moisten and press them together, and bake the patties. These may be eaten either hot or cold. Salmon Pie.—(1) Cut some cold Salmon into slices; put them in layers in a pie-dish with pieces of butter and a dust of pepper and salt between each layer, butter the edge of the dish, and line it with a strip of puff’ paste. Moisten the Salmon with a little of the liquor in which it was cooked, cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, damp the edges, and press them together. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it for about an hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Prepare a forcemeat with lib. of cold boiled pike or whiting, an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, and fib. of butter, mashed and pounded together; season it with salt and pepper, and mix to a paste with the yolks of four eggs and the white of one. Cut about 21b. of Salmon into slices lin. thick, and skin and bone them. Butter a plain mould, line it with short-paste, and fill it with For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. o