431 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. time, fold the four corners to the centre. Again turn the table-napkin over, and open out the folded corners into an oblong shape, as shown in two of the points in Fig. 541 ; this is the wrong side of the design. When all the corners are opened, turn over the Serviette, and the right side will appear as in Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). Fig. 543. Tiie Slipper. Shield.—The Serviette must be folded so that its width is about 8in. ; place it lengthwise on the table, and fold the sides to the middle, as in Fig. 542a. Turn over the Serviette, and fold up the two lower corners (see dotted A lines in Fig. 542a) towards the middle, so as to form nearly a square (Fig. 542b). Fold across the middle, so that A meets B ; take the two corners, C and d, and cross them at the back, tucking the end of one into the fold of the other, and stand up the Serviette as in Fig. 542. Fig. 543b. Slipper.—Fold the Serviette in three, and lay it length- wise before you. Take the left-hand corner and turn it over along the centre; do the same with the other corner (as in Fig. 519a). Turn the Serviette over and fold up the Serviettes—continued. straight ends even with the lower edge of triangle (see Fig 543A). Double over the folded ends to the centre, so that B and C meet at A, and turn the Serviette over so that point A is nearest to you; raise this point as in Fig. 543b and turn it well under to represent Fig. 543. Place the bread so that it raises the toe of the slipper. Swiss.—Fold the table-napkin like a half handkerchief; turn the bottom over to within rather less than a third of the point. Turn this back again to meet the lower edge, as in Fig. 544a. Kilt it in small pleats all one way, but only from the triangle (A A), leaving the two ends plain. Hold the napkin at the back in the left hand, and with the right separate carefully the back pleats from the front ones. When putting the napkin into the glass, insert the rim of the glass between the pleats, and roll the ends away neatly at the back. Tent.—The Serviette must he open on the table; fold it in half, and again in half the reverse way, forming a square; then fold this square in half, bringing the top