THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 200 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Pistachios—continued. Bavaroise of Pistachios.—Blanch and skin Jib. of Pistachios and twelve hitter almonds; then pound them in a mortar with 6oz. of loaf sugar upon which has been rubbed the rind of a lemon. Put the pounded Pistachios, &c., in a saucepan with f pint of boiling milk and loz. of isinglass; stir the mixture over the fire, boil it for five minutes, and turn it into a basin. Set it over ice, and stir till the mixture is on the point of setting; then mix in ] pint of well whipped cream, and the juice of some spinach that has been boiled till it curdles. Brush over the inside of a mould with a paste-brush that has been dipped in a little liquid or half-set jelly, then sprinkle in some chopped Pistachios, and shake it till they adhere to the sides. Pour the bavaroise into the mould, close it, and pack it in pounded ice and salt. In two hours’ time dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish, and serve. Candied Pistachio Paste.—Blanch Jib. each of almonds and Pistachios, peel them, put them in a mortar with a small quantity of white of egg, and pound; add Jib. of syrup at 40deg. and J wineglassful of kirschenwasser, and colour the mixture with a little green vegetable colouring. Mix well, leave it till cool, then take the paste out of the mortar and cut it into small pieces, the size and shape of an olive. Put the pieces of paste on a wire tray, set it in a moderately-lieated screen, and leave them to dry for four hours. Put the paste in a candy-tin, pour in some syrup at 36deg., that has been allowed to cool, and let it rise fin. above the pieces of paste. Cover the tin with a sheet of paper, and put it in a hot closet for fifteen hours. At the end of that time, break the sugar on the top, strain off the syrup, and place the bonbons again in the hot closet on a closely-latticed wire tray. When perfectly dry, keep the bonbons in boxes between layers of white paper. Glazed Pistachio Cream.—Put a dome-shaped mould into a large bowl or basin, and pack it round with broken salted ice. In the meantime, divide in halves a handful of blanched Pistachios, and macerate them in a mixture made as follows: Pour 1 pint of well-whipped cream on to a strainer to drain, put it into a basin, and mix in suffi- cient sugar, flavoured with vanilla, to sweeten it. When the Pistacliios are well drained, take out a little of the mixture at a time with a skimmer, put it into the mould, sprinkle over a few of the Pistachios, and continue in this way until the mould is full. Cover the mould with the lid, hermetically seal it with flour-ami water paste, pack the ice on the top of it, and let it remain for about an-hour- and-a-quarter. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it dry, turn the cream out on to a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. Pistachio Biscuits.—(1) Put the whites of one dozen eggs in one basin and the yolks in another. Mix in with the yolks lib. of sugar and 4oz. of blanched Pistachios that have been powdered to a pulp, together with a little of the white of an egg to prevent them oiling. Have the whites whisked to a froth, turn them into the basin with the yolks and Pistachios, and sift in Goz. of dried flour and the rasped rinds of two lemons. Stir gently, pour the mixture into moulds or paper cases, well sprinkle with caster sugar, put them into a moderate oven, and bake. When done, turn them out (if in the moulds), let them get cold, and they are ready for use. (2) Mix Jib. each of sugar and flour in a saucepan, and add the yolks of five eggs, beating well for fully ten minutes. Now add 2oz. of whole Pistachios, stir them rvell in, and spread the preparation over a buttered baking- sheet, having it 5in. in width, 10in. long, and of equal thickness. Sprinkle over 2oz. of Pistacliios cut into strips, bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of-an- liour, take the biscuits from the sheet, cut them into pieces about 2in. long and Jin. in width, dry them in the oven, and they are then ready for use. Pistachio Cake.—Weigh eight eggs in their shells, and allow the same weight of caster sugar, the weight of two eggs of potato-flour, and the same of Pistachio-nuts. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs, and beat the Pistachios—continued. yolks with the sugar; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and blanch and pound the Pistachio nuts. Stir in gradually half of the potato flour with the beaten yolks, then half of the whites of egg. When these are quite smooth, add the remainder of the flour, beaten whites of egg, and lastly the Pistachio nuts. The potato- flour should lie sprinkled in very slowly or else it will be lumpy. Pour the mixture into a buttered cake tin, and bake it in a slow oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin and leave it until cold. Afterwards, mask it with lemon flavoured icing, smoothing it evenly over the top with the flat blade of a knife, then put it in a cool oven for a minute or two to dry the icing. The cake may be very prettily ornamented with pieces of angelica cut into various fancy shapes and preserved cherries. It should be kept in a cool place when iced. Pistachio Comfits.—For these comfits 3Jlb. of clarified crushed loaf sugar of 32deg. (see Sugar-boiling) will be required, and Goz. of gum arabie, dissolved, but not too thin. Put one-sixth part each of the sugar and gum into a sugar-boiler, place it on the fire, and boil to the thread degree (sec Sugar boiling). Turn some live embers of charcoal into a chafing-dish, and over it hang a comfit- pan, put some Pistachios in it, without having the skins taken off, and stir them well until they are quite hot. Pour in 1 table-spoonful of the dissolved gum, stir the Pistachios well in it until it has dried on them, and sprinkle in a little powdered icing sugar to give the Pistachios an evenness. Turn the boiled gum and sugar into a beading-funnel, and give th» Pistachios a coating with it; separate them from one another, and when they are quite dry, turn them out on to a sieve, shaking it a little to take off any superfluous fragments of sugar. Put them back in the comfit-pan with more of the gum and sugar, and sprinkle over a little starch powder, repeating this operation five times more. The comfit-pan must be thoroughly cleaned each time the Pistachios are turned out. When they are done, put them in a warm, dry place, and let them remain for a day, then give them six more coatings of the gum, &c. Turn them out on to a sieve, put them in a slow oven to dry and whiten them, take them out, and they are done. Pistachio Cracklings.—Blanch )0oz. of Pistachios, cut 6oz. into shreds, and pound the remaining 4oz. Put them all in a basin, and mix in lOoz. of crushed and sifted loaf sugar, the whites of two eggs, and f table-spoonful of vanilla sugar for flavouring. Use a large spoon, such as a dessert-spoon, and lay out the mixture upon sheets of Fig. 255. Pistachio Cracklings. wafer-paper spread over a baking sheet. The pieces of the paste should be irregular in shape, not larger than a walnut, and must be placed 1 J2in. apart. Put the baking- sheet into a moderate oven, bake the cracklings to a light golden colour, take them out, and when they are cold and the paper has been removed, they can be served on a glass dish with a folded napkin over it. See Fig. 255. Pistachio Cream.—(1) Blanch Jib. of Pistachio kernels, put them in a mortar, and pound to a paste, adding occasionally a few drops of orange flower water to keep them from oiling. When a smooth paste, put it in a lined saucepan with lqt. of cream, Joz. of gelatine, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Stir it over the fire