THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 268 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. Mask a Pudding-basin with red-currant jam, then cover over with the paste, fill up the basin with shredded cherries and apples in equal quantities, sprinkling in a good supply of sugar, cover with more of the paste, and steam for two hours. Serve hot with whipped or clotted cream. Savoury Pudding.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs in a basin, and pour over them as much boiling milk as they will absorb. Chop Jib. of beef-suet as finely as pos- sible, mix it with the breadcrumbs, and add 1 small tea- cupful of oatmeal, three partially-boiled and chopped onions, a small quantity of chopped or powdered sage, and four well-beaten eggs, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Put a good-sized lump of pork dripping in a shallow baking-dish, place it in the oven until melted, then pour in the mixture, and bake the same as York- shire Pudding. If served with goose or pork, the Pudding may be baked under the meat. Saxe-Weimar Pudding.—Put fib. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it to a cream; then add singly the yolks of six eggs and the white of one, next a couple of cakes of chocolate in powder, the weight of the chocolate in sifted crushed loaf sugar, 5 table-spoonfuls of powdered biscuits, and lastly the whites of five eggs whipped to a froth. Turn the preparation at once into a buttered and floured fancy-shaped mould, put it in a saucepan of water in the bain-marie, and cook for half-an-hour. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over chocolate cream sauce well flavoured with vanilla, and serve. Schneider Pudding.—Mix 2J table-spoonfuls of arrowroot smoothly with a small quantity of water, then pour in gradually 1 J pints of boiling milk; turn the whole into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boil- ing. Allow the arrowroot to cool a little, then stir in the beaten yolks of five eggs, and sweeten to taste. Peel and slice some large cooking apples, put them in a stewpan with a piece of lemon-peel, plenty of sugar, a few cloves, and a small quantity of water, and stew them until tender. Butter a pie-dish, turn the apples into it, pour the arrowroot on the top, put a few small pieces of butter about, dust well over with caster sugar, and bake the Pudding until nicely browned. It can be served either hot or cold. Seven-Cup Pudding.—Finely chop sufficient beef-suet to fill a breakfast-cup, and put it into a basin with 1 break- fast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, 1 breakfast-cupful of chopped apples, and 1 table-spoonful each of sugar, flour, and well-washed and dried currants. Blanch and finely chop 3oz. of sweet almonds, and add to the above ingredients, with 1 saltspoonful each of ground ginger, mixed spice, and ground cinnamon. Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 1 breakfast-cupful of tepid milk; then mix the milk with the other ingredients, and stir vigorously until all are well incorporated. Thickly butter the interior of a Pudding-basin, pour in the mixture, tie a floured Pudding-cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours. Add more boiling water to the saucepan every now and again to keep up the original quantity. When cooked, take the Pudding out of the saucepan, remove the cloth, and turn it on to a hot dish. A sweet sauce may be served with it. Sir Watkin Wynne’s Pudding.—The ingredients for this Pudding should be prepared anti mixed the day before it is wanted. Chop finely 10oz. of beef-suet and put it in a basin with lOoz. of finely-grated breadcrumbs and 6oz. of ground rice. Beat the yolks of six eggs with the whites of three, and stir them in with the above ingredients; then add 6 table-spoonfuls of marmalade. When ready to cook the Pudding, butter a large mould, stir the mixture lip again, pour it in the mould, tie a floured cloth over the top, and put it in a saucepan of boiling water. Boil the Pudding between four and five hours; then turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet or wine sauce. Snow Pudding.—(1) Put Joz. of gelatine into a basin con- taining 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, let it remain for ten or twelve hours; then add the juice of a lemon and the grated rinds of two, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar. Pour Puddings—continued. over J pint of boiling water and stir well, and strain the whole into a deep bowl; then add the unbeaten whites of three eggs, whisk well and vigorously for three-quarters-of- an-hour, then put the bowl in a cool place for the mixture to cool. Turn it out on to a dish, pour round a custard made with the yolks of the eggs and well flavoured with vanilla, and serve. (2) Dissolve Joz. of gelatine in J pint of water, then mix with it Jib. of caster sugar, the whites of two eggs and the strained juice of two lemons. Whisk the whole well for half-an-hour; then turn it into a mould and set it on ice until ready to serve. Make about 1 pint of nicely- flavoured and sweetened custard, and leave that also until cold. When ready to serve the Pudding, turn it out of the mould on to a glass dish, and pour the custard round it. Snowdon Pudding.—(1) Mix together lib. eacli of finely- chopped suet, sifted breadcrumbs, and powdered white sugar; add four beaten eggs, the grated rinds and the strained juice of two lemons, and 2 wineglassfuls of white wine. Butter a basin, line it with sultana raisins, pour the Pudding in, and boil for five hours. (2) Mix together Jib. of suet chopped very fine, Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, 6oz. of powdered sugar, 6oz. of lemon or orange marmalade, 2oz. of sago well steeped in cold water, half-a-dozen beaten eggs and J wineglassful of brandy. Butter a mould and stick scalded raisins into it, so as to form a pattern; when the Pudding is well mixed, pour it in, cover it, boil for an hour, and serve hot with marmalade sauce. (3) Finely chop 4oz. of beef-suet and mix with it Jib. of ground rice and 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Well beat two eggs with J teacupful of orange marmalade, and mix them with the dry ingredients, beating the whole well together. Thickly butter the interior of a Pudding- basin and fill it with the Pudding mixture; stand it in a saucepan with boiling water a little more than half its height, and steam for three hours. Turn the Pudding on to a hot dish when cooked, and serve with wine sauce. Sponge Puddings.—(1) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter without oiling it, then beat it till creamy. Mix with the butter, four beaten eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and 2oz. of caster sugar, and beat the ingredients slowly until well mixed. Butter the interior of half-a-dozen small fluted moulds, fill them with the batter, and bake for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the cups on to a dish, and serve with a rich wine sauce poured over them. (2) Separate the yolks from the whites of twenty eggs, beat the whites to a firm froth, then gradually mix them in with 6oz. of ground rice flavoured with any kind of essence preferred, and beat the mixture well. Put 3 pints of milk in a saucepan, and set it over a slow fire until boil- ing ; then put in 1 table-spoonful of the mixture at a time, and poach them. Have a saucepan with 1 pint or so of syrup in it standing near the fire, where it may keep slowly boiling, and as each Pudding is cooked, take it out with a strainer and throw it into the syrup. Afterwards take the Puddings out of the syrup, drain, arrange them on a hot dish (see Fig. 326), and serve. (3) German.—Put loz. of butter into an enamelled .saucepan, melt it, then mix in smoothly 1 breakfast-cupful