354 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sago—continued. and stand it by the fire to keep it lukewarm. When the cake is well browned, take it out of the oven, and baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of the sugar and water; then put it back in the oven until the moisture is absorbed. Continue the basting until all the sugared water has been used and absorbed. Cut the cake into nice-shaped pieces, arrange them tastefully on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, dust caster sugar over them (see Fig. 421), and serve. Sago Cream.—Put 4oz. of Sago in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and boil it until dissolved; then stir in with it 1 pint of boiling beef-tea and 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling cream. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Serve while hot. Sago Dumplings for Soup (German).—Boil the requisite quantity of Sago in milk, stirring it with a wooden spoon until thick and clear ; then turn it on to a dish in a layer about lin. thick, and leave until cold; then cut it into small rounds with a tin cutter, and form them into balls. Pour boiling soup into a soup-tureen; dip the balls in beaten egg, put them in the soup, and serve. Sago Gruel.—Scald 2oz. of Sago with boiling water, strain it, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of fresh water, and boil it gently until thick and clear, keeping it well skimmed. When cooked, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and mix 4 pint of port wine with it. Serve it with slices of lemon and dry biscuits. Sago Jelly.—(1) Put J breakfast-cupful of Sago into a saucepan, with the grated peel of half a lemon, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and sufficient wine and water in equal quantities to cook it, sweetening to taste with loaf sugar. Stir the Sago over the fire with a wooden spoon till clear and thick, pour it on to a flat dish, and leave it until cold. Put 1 pint each of white wine and water into a bowl, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, sweeten with 6oz. of loaf sugar that has been rubbed on lemon-peel, and stir until the sugar is dissolved; then set the bowl in a cool place or on ice. Cut the Sago-jelly into small fancy shapes with tin cutters, put them into the wine mixture, and serve. (2) Peel and slice two large cooking apples, put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil them gently for an hour. At the end of that time strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and mix with it 2oz. of Sago, the juice of one lemon, and 2 heaped table- spoonfuls of sugar. Boil the Sago very gently until re- duced to a clear jelly. Rinse a jelly mould out 'with cold water, pour the jelly into it, and keep it in a cold place until set. When ready to serve, turn the jelly out on to a glass dish. Sago Milk.—Soak 3 table-spoonfuls of Sago in a little cold water for one hour, then put it in a saucepan with 14 pints of boiling milk, sweeten and flavour to taste, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Serve while hot. Sago Pudding (Baked).—(1) Boil the thinly-pared rind of a large lemon in lqt. of new milk. Take the lemon-peel out of the milk, and put in 1 teacupful of washed Sago and f tea- cupful of sugar. Let the Sago simmer for twenty minutes or until tender, then remove it from the fire and leave it ! till cool. Line a buttered pie-dish with rich puff paste; I mix 2oz. of butter and five well-beaten eggs with the Sago, turn it into the pie-dish, and bake it for one hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the pudding in the same dish. (2) Wash 6oz. of Sago, let it steep in cold water for half-an-hour, then pour the water off. Have lqt. of milk boiling hot in a saucepan over the fire, stir the Sago into it gradually, let it boil ten minutes, stirring it constantly. Then remove it from the fire, and continue to stir until it is cool. Add two eggs beaten up with 1 or 2 table-spoon- fuls of cold milk, 2oz. of sugar, and grated lemon-peel to taste. Mix these thoroughly into the Sago, pour it into a pudding dish, put it in a slow oven, and bake for an- hour-and-a-half. (3) Boiled.—Wash about J teacupful of Sago, and boil it in 1 pint of milk until soft. Leave it till cold, then Sago—continued. mix with it five well-beaten eggs, two Naples biscuits, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and sugar to taste. When well mixed, pour the above ingredients into a buttered pudding- basin, tie a cloth over the top, stand it in a saucepan, with boiling water to three-parts the height of the basin, and boil it for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour a sweet wine sauce over it, and serve. (4) Soak 1 teacupful of Sago in sufficient cold water to cover it all night. Put it over the fire in a farina kettle with 1 pint of milk, and let it cook till it is quite clear and soft and has absorbed all the milk; then take it from the fire, and let it cool a little. Beat together Jib. of sugar and loz. of butter. Beat up five eggs, and mix with them 1 pint of milk ; and when the Sago is nearly cold, beat it in with them ; also stir in powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg to taste, and the beaten butter and sugar. Butter a pudding-dish, pour the pudding in, and bake for half-an-hour; or pour it into a buttered pudding- tin, and boil for an hour. If served hot, send wine sauce with it; if cold, serve it with cream and sugar. (5) Put 1 teacupful of Sago into a small saucepan with 14 i>ints of milk, and boil it. When the Sago is cooked, turn it into a basin, and let it get cold. Remove the skin and any discoloured parts from 4oz. of beef-suet, chop it finely, and mix it with the cold Sago; add also 1 break- fast-cupful eacli of breadcrumbs and sugar, 1 teacupful of stoned and chopped raisins, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon. Beat four eggs well with 1 wineglassful of brandy, and stir them in with the other ingredients. Butter a pudding basin, pour the Sago mixture into it, cover it with a sheet of paper, and stand it in a saucepan with boiling water a little more than half the height of the basin, and steam it for three hours. Prepare the following sauce for the pudding: Beat the yolks of four eggs well with 4 pint of white wine, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, turn the sauce into a small lined saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thickened ; before the sauce boils, it must be taken off the fire. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish ; whisk the sauce well for a couple of minutes, then pour it over the pudding (see Fig. 422), and serve. (6) Cold.—Press sufficient juice from some red fruit to fill 1 breakfast-cup, strain it into a lined saucepan, mix with it 1 pint of water, and sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. Place the saucepan over the fire, and when the liquor boils put in l teacupful of Sago, and boil it gently until dissolved. When cooked, turn the pudding into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stand it on ice or in a cool temperature. Meanwhile, prepare a nicely-flavoured custard, and let that get cold also. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, turn the pudding out on to a fancy dish, and pour the custard round it. (7) Wash 1 teacupful of Sago, put it in a lined sauce- pan with 14 jiints of water, loaf sugar to taste, and a few drops of any kind of flavouring liked, and boil it until transparent. When cooked, mix 2 wineglassfuls of port wine with the Sago, and boil it for a minute or two longer. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the Sago into it, and stand it in a cool place or on ice until firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, turn the pudding on to a dish, and garnish it with goose- berry jelly.