348 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. ROWAN BERRIES.—See Ashberries. ROYAL BISCUITS—See Biscuits. ROYAL CONSOMME.—See Consomme. ROYAL CREAM.—See Cream. ROYAL DIPLOMATIC PUDDING.—See Pud- dings. ROYAL ICING.—See Icing. ROYAL PASTE.—See Paste. ROYAL PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. ROYAL SAUCES.—See Sauces. ROYANS.-A fish very similar to the sardine, but smaller, less oily, and more delicately flavoured. They are great favourites in France, prepared as follows: Boiled Royans in Bordeaux Style.—Wipe several Royans dry on a cloth, squeezing the tips of the tails firmly, dust them over with salt, and put them on a gridiron over a clear fire; as soon as the flesh nearest the fire begins to whiten, turn the fish, and let them cook for about two minutes' longer. Put them on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted butter sauce. Royan Salad.—Drain the oil from a box of Royans, and split each one into halves lengthwise. Wash a head of lettuce, trim off the outside leaves, pull the remaining ones apart, and put them in a salad-bowl; then put in the fish, and put some oyster crabs round them. Mix in equal quantities some salad-oil and vinegar, season it with salt and pepper, pour it over the fish, and toss it about lightly. Sprinkle some chopped fresh herbs over the salad, and serve it. RUDD.—A European fresh-water fish (Leuciscus erythrophthalmus) (see Fig. 412) of the carp family. It is about the size and shape of the roach, and can be cooked in a similar manner. RUPPS AND REEVES.—Birds (Pavoncellapugnax) closely allied to sandpipers, the male being called Ruff, and the female Reeve. They are natives of Europe and Asia. The male, during the breeding season, has a ruff of feathers round the neck. They are very rare, but when caught can be cooked as4follows: Roasted Ruffs and Reeves.—Pluck the required number of Ruffs and Reeves, trass them by passing a skewer through the thighs and pinions, and fasten them in shape with string. Put them on a small spit with fat bacon over the breasts and between them, place them in front of a clear fire, and roast for about twenty minutes, basting them frequently with butter. When the birds are done, put them on a dish over pieces of fried bread or toast, pour round rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of the gravy with a little lemon-juice squeezed into it. RUM (Fr. Rhum; Ger. Rum; Ital. Rum; Sp. Ron). —A well-known spirit, distilled from the molasses of the sugar-cane; or more generally from the fermented Rum—continued. skinnings of the sugar-boilers, the drainings of the sugar- pots and hogsheads, the washings of the boilers and other vessels, together with sufficient recent cane-juice to impai’t the necessary flavour. When first distilled Rum is colourless, and has a peculiar unpleasant flavour, which is generally understood to proceed from the rind of the sugar-cane. It can be removed, however, by filtering thi-ougli charcoal and lime. Pineapple juice is added by some Jamaica planters to give Rum the flavour that it assumes in old age, and colouring is effected with burnt sugar. The best Rum is imported from the West Indies, under the name of Jamaica Rum, a very good kind also reaching us from Martinique and Guadaloupe. The average strength of Rum, when imported into this country, is about 20 over proof. See Alcohol. The origin of the term Rum seems to have some kind of mystery about it, and is believed by some to be a shorten- ing of the word Rumbulion, signifying a noisy tumult, that being probably the result of an over-dose. Although the use of Rum is declining in this country, there are some favourite receipts in which it holds a prominent position. Rum Buns.—Thickly spread some small moulds with cold butter, and half fill them with Savarin paste; allow them to rise one-third in height, and then bake in a moderate oven until a straw can be passed into them without any of the cake sticking to it. When cool, set the buns in a dish containing Rum syrup until they have absorbed enough to soften them. The syrup is made by dissolving in cold water as much white sugar as it will absorb, and then flavouring it with Rum. Savarin paste is made as follows: Sift 21b. of flour into a deep bowl, make a hole in the middle, put into it loz. of yeast dissolved in 4 pint of lukewarm milk, and in the milk mix enough of the flour to form a thick batter in the middle of the flour. Cover the bowl, and let the batter rise in a warm place until it is foaming; add loz. of sugar, 4oz. of salt, mix in the rest of the flour, and knead in six eggs, one at a time; then mix in Rib. of butter, knead in six more eggs, one at a time, and enough warm milk to make a batter thick enough to retain its form when dropped from a spoon upon paper. Stir in a little sliced citron, or a few stoned raisins, and bake the cakes. Dust the Rum buns with sugar before serving. See Fig. 413. Rum Butter.—Mix with lib. of brown sugar a small grated nutmeg and about 6oz. of warmed butter, add 1 wine- glassful of Rum, and beat the whole up well. Pour the butter on to a dish, and when cold, sift caster sugar over it. Serve with oatmeal biscuits. This is used in the counties of Westmoreland and Cumberland when a child is born ; it is given for good luck to the mother and visitors who come to see her. Rum Cream. -Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cream into a sauce- pan with 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and three eggs, and stir Avell over the fire until the mixture has the appearance and consistency of custard. Let it cool, then mix in joz. of gelatine boiled in a little milk, and 1 wineglassful of Rum. Pour the cream into a mould, and let it get firm; then turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Rum Favourite (German).—Put loz. of soaked gelatine into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until it has dissolved. Rub the yellow peel of two lemons on 6oz. of loaf sugar, and put it into the milk. Beat the yolks of ten eggs with