TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 337 Hice—continued. saucepan with lqt. of boiling milk, let it stand at the side of the fire with the lid on for a few minutes, turn it into the saucepan with the Rice, and thicken with the yolks of four eggs beaten up in a teacupful of cream. A few minutes before serving add 4oz. of butter pulled in small pieces and a small quantity of sugar, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve very hot. (6) Turkish Style.—Wash Jib. of the best Rice in several waters, put it in a saucepan with 2qts. of clear soup stock, add a small quantity of salt, and boil gently until the Rice is tender. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and the juice of two lemons; turn them into a saucepan and stir them over the fire till thick and on the point of boiling, then take them off at once. When the Rice is soft, pour the sauce gradually into the soup, stirring it quickly at the same time to prevent the eggs curdling. Pour the soup into a tureen, dust a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over it, and serve. Rice Soup a la Maintenon.—Take lqt. of broth, 1 pint of bechamel sauce, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and add to it half a raw chicken; cook for twenty minutes in a saucepan on the fire, then take the chicken out and thicken the soup with the yolks of two beaten eggs and 1 teaspoonful of powdered curry mixed with 1 teacupful of cream. Rub all through a fine sieve and serve, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of boiled Rice and the breast of the half chicken previously cooked in the soup and cut into small pieces. Rice Soup with Mussels.—Put a finely-chopped onion and the white part of a couple of leeks into a saucepan with a little oil or butter, brown them well, add two chopped tomatoes, without pips, fry for a few minutes, then pour in lgall. of boiling water. Tie up a few sprigs of parsley with a bay-leaf, put them into the soup together with four or five cloves, and as soon as the liquor commences to boil add lib. of washed Rice; boil up once more, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, add a little pepper and 1 pinch of saffron, and stir well until the rice is cooked. Wash and clean five dozen mussels, put them into a saucepan without any liquor, and toss them over the fire until they open; take them out of their shells, cook them in a saucepan in their own liquor, add them to the soup, boil for two minutes, remove the bunch of parsley, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. Rice with Stewed Fruit.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk on the stove in a saucepan. When boiling, add 3oz. of well- cleaned Rice and J saltspoonful of salt, and cook for twenty minutes, adding loz. of butter. Mix for one minute, then remove from the fire, and let it cool for thirty minutes. Add the yolks of two eggs. Beat the whites to a froth in a basin with a wire whisk, add them to the Rice, sweeten with 3oz. of powdered sugar, and flavour with 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water. Mix well together for five minutes. Peel and core four apples, and cut them into slices about Jin. in thickness. Butter the sides of a saucepan lightly, cover the bottom with a layer of the prepared Rice Jin. thick, put a layer of sliced apples over this, and so dispose of all the apples and Rice in alternate layers; run a larding-needle down through it in a dozen places at equal distances and pour over J gill of Russian kummel. Put on the lid, place it in a moderate oven, and cook for twenty minutes. Remove and dress it neatly on a dish, sending it to table with a bowl of sauce prepared thus: Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. Break into a vessel two eggs, add loz. of flour, Joz. of cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beat- ing the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. When the milk boils, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes; return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly till it conies to the boil, adding immediately 1 gill of kiimmel. (2) Well wash some Rice and boil it till three-parts done; then drain it, mix with it some cream, and finish cooking ; when quite done, mix the beaten yolks of three eggs with it. Procure a flat border mould, butter it, and fill it with the Rice. Place the mould in a bain-marie Rice—continued. or double boiler, and poach the contents for twenty-five minutes. Peel and slice a pine-apple; cut two-thirds of the slices into halves, put them in a stewpan with some syrup at 28deg., and stand them at the edge of the fire. Cut the remaining pieces of pine-apple into small squares, and put them into a stewpan with an equal quantity of preserved cherries, green almonds, preserved apricots, and a small piece of angelica, all of which should be cut up into pieces the same size as the pine-apple. Wash 2oz. of Smyrna raisins, and blanch the same quantity of pistachios; mix them with the salpieon of fruit, pour in 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and stand the stewpan over a slow fire. Drain the moisture off the chopped fruit, and mix with them half a small pot of apple marmalade that has been flavoured with vanilla. Turn the border of Rice out on to a hot dish, and fill the centre witli the salpifon of fruit. Pile a compote of cherries on the fruit salpiyon, garnish round them with the half slices of pine apple, and garnish round the rice with candied greengages (see Fig. 393). Serve with a sauceboatful of apple marmalade that has been warmed with some maraschino. Rice Stuffing for Sucking-Pig.—Thoroughly wash the Rice, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cook it, and stew gently at the side of the fire. When soft and dry, mix with the Rice a few table-spoonfuls of finely-minced ham or bacon and the same of boiled split peas. Bind the mixture with a sufficient quantity of butter and well-beaten egg, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Rice-and-Tapioca Pudding.—Put a little more than J tea- cupful of Rice (without being washed) into a deep pie-dish, and add a little less than J teacupful of tapioca. Mix these well, add J teacupful of crushed loaf sugar, pom- over 6 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and sprinkle over a little ground cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Set the disli in a slack oven, bake for about four hours, take it out, and serve. Rice Timbale flavoured with. Almonds.—Well wash 12oz. of Rice, put it into a saucepan with more than suffi- cient cohl water to cover it, and boil. Pour off all the water, and let the Rice dry in the saucepan set at the side of the fire. Blanch and pound 12oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, stir them into 6 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk, and strain through a cloth. Pour this into the saucepan containing the Rice, and mix in 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 4oz. of butter, and a little salt; set it to boil, remove to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for an hour, so that the mixture will become firm. Test the grains of Rice; if they are soft and break easily between the thumb anil finger, they are ready; if not, add a little more milk and continue the slow cooking. Stir in Jib. of bitter macaroons in powder and the yolks of six eggs and whites of two; when well mixed, add the whites of four eggs whipped to a froth and 4 table-spoon- fuls of well-whipped cream. Have ready Jib. or so of fine puff paste, roll it out rather thin, cut it into strips, and line a dome-shaped mould with them, forming a spiral coat- ing. Fill up with the Rice mixture, put the timbale into a VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Z