296 TEE ENC YCLOPJEDTA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. (2) Clean and cut into joints two young Rabbits, wrap each joint up separately in thin slices of bacon, and put them into a basin well greased and lined with suet crust, placing a bay-leaf and a little lemon-peel in the centre of the pieces of Rabbit. Season to taste, pour in as much rich stock as is required, cover with more paste, and steam for two hours. Rabbit Puree.—Skin and clean two or three Rabbits, cut them into halves, put them in a saucepan with about lqt. of game consomme, place the pan over the tire with hot ashes on the lid, and braise until they are done. Take out the pieces of Rabbit, let them get cold, remove all the skin, pick off the meat, chop it fine, and pound it in a mortar. In the meantime, strain the sauce into an- other saucepan, skim it, reduce it to half its original quantity, pour in lqt. of Spanish sauce, reduce the sauce again, add it to the meat in the mortar, rub the whole through a fine sieve into a basin or jar, and it is ready for use. Rabbit Puree with Rice.—Cut off all the meat from one or two roasted Rabbits, chop and pound it with a quarter of its bulk of butter, and rub it through a fine sieve. Put the Rabbit trimmings and bones into a saucepan with a little stock and brown thickening, boil them until all the goodness is extracted, pour in some of it to the pounded meat to make the mass of the required con- sistency, turn the puree into a dish lined with hot boiled rice, put a few soft boiled eggs round for a garnish, and serve. If preferred, a layer of cooked paste may be sub- stituted for the rice after the stock is added to the meat. They should lie served at once if required hot, as the puree must not be warmed again, or the flavour would be quite spoiled. Rabbit Rissoles.—Prepare a light but stiff paste with |lb. of flour, Jib. of butter, and two eggs; roll it out very thinly, and cut it into lozenge-shaped pieces. Cut some cold roasted Rabbit into thin slices, season them to taste with salt and pepper, and squeeze some lemon-juice over them. Lay a slice of the meat on each piece of paste, cover them with similar pieces of paste, moisten the edges, and pinch them together securely. Dip these in beaten egg and roll in powdered vermicelli. Put a large lump of lard into a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises, put in the rissoles and fry them a nice golden brown, turning when done on one side. When all the rissoles are cooked, drain them a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper, arrange them on a hot dish over which bad been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with neat groups of Med parsley, and serve. Rabbit Salad.—Cut off some fillets from roasted Rabbits, put them into a basin with vinegar and oil, and add a seasoning of finely-chopped tarragon leaves, chives, and pimpernel; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and let them remain for an hour or so to soak, turning them frequently. Put a few lettuce-leaves at the bottom of a salad-bowl, place on these the fillets of Rabbits intermixed with chopped or sliced beetroot, capers, fillets of anchovies, finely-chopped pimpernel-leaves and chervil, and hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Add a few white hearts of lettuces, and serve. Rabbit Sausages.—Skin the Rabbits while fresh, paunch j them, and wash them in plenty of cold water. Disjoint the Rabbits, and cut all the meat off the bones. Break j the bones and put them with the heads split open into a saucepan; pour in water barely to height, season with salt and pepper, and stew gently over a slow fire. Cut out the gall-bags, being careful not to break them, put the livers into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and steam them over a gentle fire until cooked through; then take them out, and chop coarsely. Finely mince the meat that was cut off the bones, mix it with the livers, and season the mixture highly with salt, pepper, and pounded cloves. Strain the liquor from the bones, which should have been boiled down to a glutinous gravy, season it to taste, mix it with the mince while warm, and stir all together until thoroughly amalgamated. Clean a large sausage-skin, fill it with the mixture, and Rabbits—con tinned. tie it tightly round the end. Put the sausage into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it slowly at the side of the fire for an hour. When cooked, drain the sausage, and hang it tip until cold. When serving, cut the sausage into slices, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and garnish with a few bunches of parsley. Rabbit Saute.—Skin and clean a young Rabbit, and cut it up into joints. Put a few pieces of ham into a saute- pan with a little butter, toss the pan for a few minutes over the fire, add the pieces of Rabbit, and a little finely- chopped parsley, thyme, and onion, and cook for a few minutes longer; sprinkle the Rabbit over with flour, pour in stock and white wine in equal proportions and suffi- cient to moisten, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is quite tender. Put the meat on a dish to keep hot; pour the sauce through a sieve into a saucepan, add a few chopped mushrooms, stew for a few minutes longer, pour it over the Rabbit, and serve very hot. Rabbit Saute with Tomatoes.—Skin, clean, and disjoint two or three Rabbits, put them into a frying-pan with Goz. of melted bacon, fry them over a clear fire for a few minutes, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and adil to them a finely-chopped onion and Goz. of lean bacon cut up into small pieces. Toss the pan over the fire for ten minutes or so longer, then turn the whole into a saucepan, and add a small bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, and five or six tomatoes cut up into pieces and without their seeds. Cover the saucepan, place it on a moderate fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook till the Rabbit meat is quite tender. Baste the pieces of Rabbit with a little melted meat-glaze, dust them over with a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, take out the sweet herbs, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve very hot. Rabbits Sautes with Truffles.—Clean two young plump Rabbits and divide each into six pieces—that is, the two legs, two shoulders, and two nice pieces from the back. Put Jib. of butter into a saute-pan, and place it over the fire till it has dissolved; then put in the pieces of Rabbit, and fry them slowly till brown, adding more butter if required, and turning them when one side is brown. Drain all the butter out of the saute-pan, pour over the Rabbit 1 pint of brown sauce and h pint of clear broth, and put it over the fire. Peel some truffles, cut them into thin slices, and put them in with the Rabbit when the sauce boils; season with a small quantity of sugar, and stir occasionally till the sauce is reduced to a thick creamy consistency. Adieu ready, arrange the Rabbit and truffles in a group m the centre of a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Rabbit Souffle.—Cut off all the meat from a couple of cold roasted Rabbits, remove the skin and sinews, chop the meat very small, and pound it in a mortar. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient veloute sauce to moisten it, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, and add the beaten yolks of six eggs. Place the saucepan on the fire, and let it remain until the yolks are cooked; then remove it quickly from the fire, add a lump of butter, and stir well. Whip the whites of the six eggs to a froth, pour them into the saucepan, turn the mixture into a souffle-dish, brown the souffle slightly in the oven for ten or twelve