299 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. bacon into pieces about ljin. by lin., blanch and dry them, put them into a frying-pan with loz. of butter, and fry them to a light yellow colour. Take them out, put in fifteen button-mushrooms, and fry them also; then put them on a plate and keep them hot. Place the pieces of Rabbit into the frying-pan, and fry them gently for ten minutes ; then dredge in loz. of flour, stir well for a couple of minutes, and add 3 teacupfuls each of broth and red wane, one faggot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and the mushrooms and pieces of bacon. Put the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for about twenty minutes; then add 2 pints more of mushrooms, and cook five minutes longer. Remove the faggot, turn the remainder out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. (2) Cut a Rabbit into joints, and dredge them well with flour. Put Jib. of thinly-sliced bacon into a frying-pan, and fry for a few minutes; then take it out of the frying- pan, and put it into a stewpan. Put the pieces of Rabbit into the frying-pan with the fat, and turn them about until browned on both sides; then put them in with the bacon, add a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, salt and pepper to taste, pour in 1J wineglassfuls of brandy, and stew gently for an hour. When cooked, arrange the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish, strain the cooking-liquor over them, and serve. (3) Draw and wash a Rabbit, clean it in plenty of water, cut it up at the joints, and chop the body into four pieces. Put about 2 teacupfuls of sweet oil into a stewpan, and place it over a brisk fire; when it is on the point of boiling, put in the pieces of Rabbit, dust them over with salt and pepper, and turn them about occa- sionally until lightly browned all over. Then put in a small bunch of herbs composed of two sprigs of parsley, one sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, adding also a few sliced mushrooms and truffles. Put the lid on the stew- pan, and keep the contents simmering at the side of the fire until the Rabbit is tender. When cooked, put the Rabbit on a hot dish, placing the pieces as much as possible in their original form; pour over some Italian sauce, garnish with the slices of truffles and mushrooms, also some crofltons of bread fried a golden brown in butter, and serve with as little delay as possible. (4) Skin and clean a Rabbit, chop off its head, cut the body into quarters, lard them, and fry in a little butter, but do not cook them too much; take them out and keep hot. Pour 3 breakfast-cupfuls of stock into a sauce- pan, and add a small bunch, of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the saucepan at the side of the lire, and let the contents simmer gently for abont tliree- quartersof-an-hour. Pass the gravy through a sieve into another saucepan, add a little lump of butter well kneaded in flour to thicken, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, and stir well until it is quite hot. Pour it at once over the Rabbit, and serve. Stewed Rabbits with Pine Herbs.—Put a few chopped mushrooms and shallots into a saucepan with a little butter, add a small quantity of minced parsley, place the saucepan on the fire, and cook them until done; then put in two Rabbits cut up into pieces, sprinkle them over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, put in a small bunch of sweet herbs, and toss the pan over the fire for a little while; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine, place the cover on the pan, pack hot ashes on it, and let it remain on the fire for about twenty minutes. Add the juice of a lemon, a small lump each of butter and meat- or game-glaze, sprinkle over a little flour, and stir well for two or three minutes. Turn the whole out on to a dish, piling it up, and serve. Stewed Rabbits and Onions (Spanish Style).—For this dish an earthenware pipkin with a close-fitting cover will be required. Cut two Rabbits into small pieces, and peel and cut in thin slices four moderate-sized Spanish onions. Fill the pipkin with alternate layers of Rabbit and onion, seasoning well with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs between each layer. Put in a few rashers of bacon, and lastly a few more slices of onions. Put the cover on the mould, and stew the contents very gently for two hours. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Rabbits—continued. Stewed Rabbit in a Paste Case.—Prepare a paste of flour and water, with it line a plain mould which has been well buttered, fill the centre with flour, and bake it. Take it out, let it get cold, and turn out the flour; then take out the paste crust, decorate it with leaves, &c., of uncooked paste, and brush it over with egg. In the mean- time, chop one or two Rabbits into joints, put them into a saucepan over the fire, add a small onion, two or three cloves, a small quantity of glaze, and some good rich gravy. (_ ook until the meat is done and the liquor quite thick, then turn the whole into the crust of paste, which should have been kept hot in the oven to cook the leaves that it has been ornamented with ; put it on a napkin folded on a dish (see Fig. 350), and serve. Stewed Rabbit in Venetian Style.—Skin and clean a Rabbit, cut it into joints, lard the largest of them, and put them all into a saucepan with a few thin slices of veal; pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine, half the quantity of olive oil, add four heads of garlic, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. Cover the saucepan, put it on a slow fire, and cook the contents gently until the meat is done and tender. When done, take out the pieces of Rabbit, put them in a heap in the centre of a dish, strain the sauce over them, and serve. Stewed Rabbit with White Sauce—Cut a Rabbit into joints, put the pieces into a basin, cover them with boil- ing water, and steep them for an hour or two. Put J pint of stock into a saucepan, and place it over the fire until it boils; then drain the pieces of Rabbit, put them into the stock, add one onion, a small piece of lemon-peel, season with salt and pepper, and stew the whole gently at the side of the fire until the Rabbit is tender. When the Rabbit is nearly cooked, put into a smaller saucepan loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed ; then pour in 1 teacupful of cream, continue stirring it until boiling, then remove it from the fire. Arrange the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish; strain their cooking-liquor, stir it into the cream sauce, and boil it up again; then add a squeeze of lemon-juice, pour it over the pieces of Rabbit, and serve. Stewed Tinned Rabbit with Onion Sauce.—Open a 21b. tin of Rabbit, set it in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it remain until the meat is quite hot. Pour off the liquor from it, and put a fewr lumps of butter on top; when this is melted, turn the contents of the tin on to a dish, pour over onion sauce, and serve. Timbale of Rabbits.—Skin and draw a couple of Rabbits, cut them into pieces, put them in a basin with a few pounded sweet herbs, sprinkle well with salt and pepper, and let them macerate for a couple of hours or so.' Put a couple of chopped onions into a frying-pan with a small quantity of lard, fry them, and add 2 or 3 handfuls of mushrooms, also chopped, and continue the cooking until their moisture is reduced; then add a very small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and 5oz. of un- cooked ham cut into small cubes. Put lOoz. of finely- chopped fat bacon into a basin, add the onion mixture to it, and stii in a few table-spoonfuls of Madeira wine or good brandy. Have ready a timbale-mould lined with short-paste, cover the bottom and sides with the mixture, arrange the pieces of Rabbits in the centre, intermixing