THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 381 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Sardines—continued. with the above mixture, stick them together like whole eggs, arrange them on a dish with watercress between them (see Fig. 449), ancl serve. Fig. 449. Sardines in Eggs. Sardine Fingers.—Drain the oil from some Sardines, scrape off the skin, split them into halves lengthwise, and remove the bones. Dip them in remoulade sauce, then lay them in threes on slices of bread, cover with more bread, then cut each into three fingers, lengthwise with the fish. Wrap each linger in waxed paper, pile them on a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Sardine Fritters.—Cut two French rolls into moderately thick slices, and lay them in a deep dish ; beat three eggs together with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, pour them over the slices, and leave until well soaked. Put 3oz. of butter in a saucepan, and when it has melted put in the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of parsley, half that quantity of tarragon, and a small quantity of burnet, all finely chopped. Stir the mixture over the fire for five or six minutes, put in 1 table-spoonful of capers and J table-spoonful each of lemon-juice or vinegar, gravy, salad-oil, and mustard. Thicken with grated breadcrumb, and stir all well together. Skin and bone nine or ten Sardines, mince them, and work to a smooth paste. Fry the soaked slices of roll in butter till delicately browned, drain them, and spread the Sardine paste over them. Arrange them in a circle round a hot dish, fill the centre with poached eggs, and pour the sauce over them. Put the dish in a hot oven for two or three minutes, then serve. Sardines with Mustard.—Skin about six Sardines, pick the flesh carefully off the hones, put it in a mortar with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and pound them to a smooth paste; mix 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced shallot with the paste. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard till quite smooth with vinegar, then* stir it into the other ingredients, add 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and a small quantity of salt and cayenne pepper. Work the mix- ture until quite smooth, then put it into small jars, and keep them tightly corked or covered with bladder until the mustard is required for use. Sardine Omelet.—Have ready over the fire a frying-pan containing 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil. Remove the skins and bones from two Sardines, and cut them into Jin. lengths; beat the eggs with J saltspoonful of salt and a slight dust of cayenne pepper for a minute. Have ready J teaspoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. When the oil is hot, pour the eggs into the pan, place it over the fire, and, with a fork, slightly break the omelet on the bottom as it cooks, so that the uncooked portion can run upon the pan, but do not tear the edges of the omelet. When the omelet is cooked to the required degree (ami it should not be too well done), lay the Sardines on one side of it, pour the lemon-juice or vinegar over them, fold the omelet together, enclosing them, and then turn it out on a hot dish, and serve at once. The omelet should be served the moment it is done, as it hardens by standing. Sardine Salad.—(1) Steep the requisite quantity of Sardines in vinegar for half-an-hour, then scrape them carefully, refresh them in more vinegar, and arrange them round the edges of a dish. Finely chop a bunch of parsley Sardines—continued. and three or four small onions, stone several olives, mix them with the onions, and put the mixture in the middle of the dish. Put the strained juice of two lemons in a basin with 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and beat them well with a wooden spoon until of a smooth creamy con- sistency. Pour the sauce over the salad, and serve without delay. (2) Remove the skin and bones from three Sardines, put them in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and pound them until smooth. Mix 3 table-spoon- fuls of vinegar with the same quantity of cream or salad- oil and 1 wineglassful of wine; season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg. Remove the skin and bones from the remains of any kind of cold cooked fish, and flake it with two forks. Cover the bottom of a dish with a layer of the flaked fish, over that place a few thin slices of pickled gherkins, capers, and Bologna sausage; on the top of these arrange some neat fillets of Sardines. Pour the vinegar mixture in with the pounded Sardines and eggs, and stir it until quite smooth, then pour it over the salad, garnish witli sliced hard-boiled eggs and lemons, and serve. (3) Skin, bone, and divide some tinned Sardines into fillets. Thoroughly wash some lettuces, chervil, American and watercress; drain them, cut them up, and put them in a salad-bowl; arrange the Sardines on the top, and sprinkle over some chopped capers. Masli the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and mix with them the juice of half a lemon and 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil; season the dres- sing with mustard, pepper, salt, and cayenne, pour it over the salad, put some slices of lemon round, and serve. (4) Skin eight Sardines, and boil them. Cut eight hard- boiled eggs and six peeled and boiled onions into slices; put them in a salad-bowl in alternate layers, with Sardines between each, sprinkle over some chopped tarragon, chervil, parsley, and piepper and salt; pour in some oil and vinegar, and serve. (5) Open a large tin of Sardines, strain off all the oil into a cup, and put it by; lift the Sardines out one at a time, scrape off their skins, split them lengthwise into halves, and remove the bones. Boil three eggs soft, cook- ing them for three minutes, then crack the shells and empty them into a basin. Mix with the eggs the strained oil of the Sardines, 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, a moderate quantity each of malt, shallot, and chilli vinegar, 1 dessert- spoonful of French mustard, and a few drops of essence of anchovies; beat the mixture until smooth and well incor- porated. Prepare and cut into shreds two or three freshly- gathered lettuces, and thoroughly wash some mustard and cress. Mix the lettuce anil the sauce together on a salad- dish, pile some of the mustard and cress in the centre, and lay a whole red capsicum upon it. Arrange the Sardines round the salad, and finish with a border of the remain- ing mustard anil cress, and serve with as little delay as possible. The salad may be varied according to taste with watercress, endive, beetroot, and any other vege- table used in the composition of salads. (6) Skin and bone three or four Sardines; put their flesh in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and pound them smoothly, then beat them up with J tea- cupful each of cream, wine, and vinegar; season with salt, and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg. Cover the bottom of a large dish with a layer of any kind of cold flaked fish, over that strew some chopped capers and thinly-sliced pickled gherkins, and cover them with a layer of thin slices of smoked sausages. Skin and bone a few Sardines, divide them in halves, and arrange them neatly on the top of the sausage. Beat the Sardine- and-cream mixture up again, and pour it over the contents of the dish. Arrange round the edge of the dish a border of fresh nicely-picked watercress, over that lay, alter- nately, some slices of hard-boiled egg and lemon, and serve. Sardine Sandwiches.—(1) Drain the oil from five or six Sardines, skin and bone them, and cut off their tails. Put them in a mortar with one anchovy that has also been skinned and boned, add loz. of butter and a small quantity each of salt, mace, and cayenne pepper, and pound them until quite smooth. Cut some rather thin slices of brown