401 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces—continued. (2) Put the yolks of four very fresh eggs into a jug with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, anil whisk them well. Pour in 1J wineglassfuls of pale brandy and 2 wineglass- fuls of sherry, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling- water, and whisk the contents with an egg-beater. When well frothed, the Sauce is ready for serving. (3) Put two whole eggs and one white into a basin, and whisk them well; mix J pint of milk with them, stand the basin in a stewpan of boiling water, and stir the contents over the fire until thickened. Flavour the Sauce well with ratafia, and sweeten it to taste with caster sugar. It is then ready for serving. Sweet Sauce.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of cream into a saucepan and boil it. Mix 1 teaspoonful of Hour with 1 wineglass- ful of sherry, stir it into the boiling cream, add a little grated nutmeg, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Let the Sauce simmer by the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time, and then serve it. (2) Prepare about f pint of good butter Sauce, mix with it while in the saucepan 1 wineglassful each of brandy and white wine, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and stir it over the fire till boiling. It is then ready for serving. (3) Mix J table-spoonful of potato-flour to a smooth paste with 1 teacupful of cold water; then pour it into a saucepan, add J pint of boiling water, and sweeten it to taste. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till boil- ing, then mix in 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice and a small lump of butter. When the butter has dissolved, the Sauce is ready for serving. Swiss Sauce.—Put 1 teacupful of cream into a saucepan, and when boiling mix with it 1 wineglassful of sherry that has been thickened with 1 teaspoonful of flour. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, grate a little nutmeg in, and boil it for fifteen minutes. The Sauce is then ready for serving. Yellow Sauce for Puddings.—Warm Jib. of butter in a basin, but do not let it oil, and beat it to a cream with Jib. of brown sugar; stand the basin in a saucepan containing boiling water, stir the sugar and butter till liquid, and then add the beaten yolk of one egg. Continue stirring, with the saucepan placed over a gentle fire, till the Sauce is thick, then mix in with it 1 teacupful of brandy, or wine if preferred, and a little grated nutmeg. The Sauce should be served without delay. Bottled Sauces (for flavouring).—These are des- cribed as liquid or semi-liquid condiments for seasoning food. At some time or another the demand for these kind Fig. 465. Sauce-frame (Adams and Son). of stock Sauces was very great, but, in later years, perhaps owing to the great number advertised, the presence of any particular Sauce does not seem to be so urgent. At one time, when there were but two or three of these Sauces—continued. Bottled Sauces, they were found in almost every kitchen ; now, there being so many, cooks have a wider choice, hence their favours are disti-ibuted. The following i-eceipts are sti'ongly recommended, and they will be found ample for all purposes requiring Bottled Sauces, but in the cases of those sauces having proprietory names, the receipts should be considered as merely approximate to the oi-iginals, or good “ imitations.” Bottled Sauces arc usually served in a frame similar to that shown in Fig. 465. See also Ketchup. Aristocratic Sauce.—Mix lib. of anchovies and about A teaspoonful each of cloves, mace, and Jamaica ginger with 1 pint of juice that has been pressed from some green walnuts and allowed to settle, put them into a saucepan, and boil them till the anchovies are dissolved. Strain the boiled liquor into another saucepan, add six shallots, 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, 1 breakfast-cupful oi vinegar, and J breakfast-cupful of port wine. When boiled leave the Sauce till cold; then put it into bottles, and keep it corked till wanted for serving. Cardinal Fish Sauce.—Mix together 1 pint of vinegar, 1 gill of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy liquor, 1 dessert-spoonful of walnut ketchup, Joz. of cayenne, two drachms of cochineal, and three cloves of garlic. Let it stand for forty hours, giving it about six good stirrings during that time. Strain it through a flannel bag, and put it into small bottles Chef Sauce for Steaks, &c.—Peel six shallots, cut them into halves, put them in a wide-mouthed bottle with Joz. of cayenne pepper and 4 table-spoonfuls of soy, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of mushroom ketchup, shake the contents of the bottle well, and fill it up with the best vinegar. Shake the bottle occasionally for two days, then leave it untouched for four days longer. Pour oft' J pint of the Sauce into a smaller bottle, which keep corked for present use; fill up the larger bottle again with more vinegar, cork it tightly, and leave it for about a month before using the Sauce. Coratch or Carachi.—(1) Put into a large jar 3 table- spoonfuls each of soy, mushroom ketchup, walnut pickle, and mango pickle, five pounded anchovies, l pint of vinegar, and a head of garlic cut into small pieces ; add J dessert-spoonful of cayenne and a little cochineal to colour it. Remove the garlic in two days, and leave the rest for a few days longer. Filter the Sauce through blotting-paper, and keep in tightly-corked bottles. (2) Put Jgall. of good mushroom ketchup, f pint of walnut ketchup, A pint each of chilli vinegar and Indian soy, and 1 gill of essence of anchovies into a gallon jar, and let it macerate for a fortnight. It may be then put into bottles for use. Devonshire Sauce.—(1) Press the juice from sufficient young walnuts to make 1 pint. Put the juice into a saucepan with lib. of anchovies, and stir them over the fire till the anchovies are dissolved. Strain the juice into another saucepan, put in with it 1A table-spoonfuls of broken mace, J table-spoonful of cloves, and loz. of peppercorns. Boil the above articles, then strain the Sauce into a basin, and leave it till cold. Keep the Sauce in tightly- corked bottles till ready for serving. (2) Mash up fib. of anchovies in f pint of young walnut juice, then strain the liquor until quite clear, and mix with it § breakfast-cupful of white wine vinegar, about loz. of mace, Joz. of cloves, and a few peppercorns. Boil the whole in an enamelled saucepan for ten or fifteen minutes, then strain it into a jug. When the Sauce is cold, bottle it, and keep it tightly corked. Gourmet's Sauce.—Macerate together for a fortnight or longer Jgall. of good mushroom ketchup, lqt. each of walnut ketchup and port wine, J pint each of chilli vinegar and soy, 1 breakfast-cupful of essence of anchovies, 4oz. each of braised garlic and white pepper, loz. of braised chillies, and Joz. each of mace anil cloves. Strain through coarse muslin, and bottle for future use. This Sauce is improved by keeping. VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads, D