283 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Quinces—continued. cover them, and boil gently until they begin to get tender. In the meantime peel, quarter, and core the apples, add them to the Quinces, and boil to a pulp. \Y lien the fruit is reduced to a pulp, add the sugar, boil the mixture to the consistency of thick marmalade, stirring it Constantly to prevent burning; then cool and put it into jars, and pack away in a cool place until wanted. Quince-and-Apple Jelly.—Peel, core, and cut up an equal quantity of Quinces and apples, stew them separately until tender, putting the Quinces on first, as they require longer cooking. Strain the juices from the fruit and mix them, for every pint of juice allowing fib. of crushed loaf sugar. Put the juice in a preserving-pan, boil it for lifteen minutes, then put in the sugar, and boil it until reduced to the consistency of jelly. Turn the jelly into small pots or glasses, and when cold cover and tie them down for use. Quince-and-Apple Tart.—Butter a shallow dish, line it with a good puff paste, then spread in a thick layer of Quince marmalade. Peel .and core a few cooking apples, and cut them into small equal-sized shapes according to fancy, with a large round for the centre; arrange them in the form of a large star over the marmalade, making each Fig. 337. Quince-and-Apple Taut. slice overlay the other (see Fig. 337), strew plenty of moist sugar over, put a few small bits of butter on the top, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, the tart may be served either hot or cold. Quince Blanc-mange.—Peel and core 21b. of Quinces, put them into a preserving-pan with lqt. of water, and keep them simmering gently until broken but not reduced to a pulp. Strain the liquor through a jelly-bag into a clean pan, and put in 1 toz. of gelatine and 12oz. of caster sugar. Stir the mixture gently over a clear fire, and boil it till it leaves the spoon when drawn from the pan. Skim carefully, remove all the scum, then pour it into a basin, and mix with it h pint of thick cream; stir it briskly until nearly cold. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in the blanc-mange, and leave till quite cold and set. It should be made with ripe Quinces only. When ready to serve, turn the blanc-mange out of the mould on to a fancy dish. Quince Cakes.—(1) Put some Quinces in a saucepan with a small quantity of water and boil them gently until a knife will easily pass through them. Drain the Quinces on a sieve, peel and scrape them, and remove the cores. Rub the pulp through a sieve, put it in a saucepan with an equal quantity of caster sugar, and boil slowly until some- what stiffly reduced. Pack the Quince mixture into small moulds, and keep them in a warm place. (2) Pare and core nine Quinces, boil them till quite soft, rub them through a sieve, and strain the pulp; add to this f pint each of syrup of barberries and syrup of Quinces and 6oz. of powdered white sugar. Put this mixture over the fire, boil it to the crack (see SUGAR- boiling), then pour into small shallow moulds; let them cool a little, and put thorn into a stove to dry. Quince Cheese.—Peel ami core 41b. of ripe Quinces and cut them into small pieces. Put the trimmings at the bottom of a preserving-pan, and place a plate over them to keep them down. Put the Quinces on the top of the plate, and pour in 1 pint of water. Cover the preserving-pan and let the contents simmer till the Quinces are quite soft. Take the h'111 out, strain the water off the parings, mix with it 21b. of crushed loaf sugar, stir it over the fire till dis- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Quinces—continued. solved, then boil till a light foam rises, and skim it. Mash the Quinces, put them in with the syrup, and stir over a slow fire till reduced to a stiff jelly. Procure some flat earthenware dishes with lids, line them with tissue paper, pour the cheese mixture in them, and leave till cold. Cover the cheeses with tissue paper, put the lids on the dishes, and they are then ready for use. Quince Cordial.—This is made by mixing 2igalls. of the juice of Quinces with lgall. of syrup of white sugar and igall. of pure spirits. Let the whole remain for several days in a covered stone jar, and it is ready for use. Quince Cream.—Roast four or five ripe Quinces, but not sufficient to soften them, then pare and core them, and cut them in thin slices. Put them over the fire in a saucepan with 1 pint of rich cream and a little ginger, and simmer till the cream gets pretty thick. Strain it, flavour it with a little rose-water, anil add sugar to taste. Quinces with Cream.—Pour into a large flat earthenware pan 3qts. of unskimmed milk, warm it, then move it to the side of the fire and keep it at the same degree of heat for two hours without disturbing it. At the end of that time the surface of the milk will be covered with a thick solid cream. Cut it into squares, remove it with a skimmer, put it on a dish, and sprinkle caster sugar over. Peel and core some ripe Quinces, boil them in a thin syrup, taking care to keep them whole. Drain and leave the Quinces till cold, put them on a fancy dish, garnish with the cream, and serve. This is a highly-esteemed Turkish dish, the solidified cream being known as “ cairnae.” Quince Cream Ice. —Put some peeled and sliced Quinces in a preserving-pan with a third of the quantity of peeled and sliced apples and a little water. Boil them till soft, then pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve. Weigh the pulp, and for every two pounds use Hlb. of crushed loaf sugar; put all in a preserving-pan, and boil quickly till reduced to a jelly, stirring all the time, then pass it through a fine hair sieve and leave till cold. Add to each pound of the mixture 1 pint of cream and a little lemon-juice, sweeten to taste, turn it into a freezing-pot, and freeze. When frozen, put the Quince cream into moulds, cover them, and embed them in pounded ice and salt. When ready to serve, turn the ice out of the moulds on to a fancy dish. Quince Iced Pudding.—Beat together till foamy three eggs and 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar. Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and l teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sifted flour. Add 1 teacupful of cold water to the beaten eggs, then stir in with the Hour and mix all thoroughly. Butter the inside of a plain oval shaped border mould about 4in. high, pour the mixture into it, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a slow oven. Leave the pudding in the mould until nearly cold, then turn it out on to a flat dish. Beat the whites of two eggs with 11 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, flavour it with a few drops of vanilla essence, ice the pudding over with it, and set it away till dry. In the meantime, mix with lqt. of cream 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, I pint of custard, and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract. Put it in a freezer and freeze it, like ice-cream. Mask the inside of the pudding with Quince jelly, and fill it with the frozen cream. Pile whipped cream on the top and round the pudding, and serve at once. Quince Jelly.—(1) Select fine ripe Quinces; peel, core, and cut them up, put them in a saucepan with just as much cold water as will cover them, and stew gently until tender, but not red. Strain the juice off the Quinces without pressing them, measure it, and for each breakfast-cupful allow an equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar. Put the juice into a preserving-pan and boil it for twenty minutes, then add the sugar and boil till reduced to the consistency of jelly, keeping it well stirred at the same time. Skim the jelly and strain it through a jelly-bag. Pour it into small jars, and when quite cold cover them with paper and tie down. (2) Peel and slice 41b. of Quinces and 21b. of apples, put them in a copper preserving-pan with 2qts. of water, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.