TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 318 Rennet—continued. filter off the fluid and colour with a little brown sugar. Some manufacturers use white wine instead of water, when a few days’ soaking is sufficient. 1 or 2 tea-spoonfuls of this is sufficient to curdle 1 qt. of milk. REVALENTA ARABICA.—The name given to a mixture of the red Arabian or Egyptian lentil with barley-flour, to which is added a little sugar or salt. It makes a capital invalid food prepared as follows: Pour some water in a saucepan over the fire, and when boiling, stir in the required quantity of Revalenta; con- tinue stirring it, and boil for half-an-hour. Sweeten the Revalenta to taste, mix some boiling milk with it, and serve. RHEIMS BISCUITS. See Biscuits. RHENISH CREAM.—See Cream. RHENISH WINES.—See Rhine Wines. RHINE WINES—Of all the German wines, those produced from the vineyards along the banks of the Rhine are considered the best. Of these the Hock stands first, followed very closely by Johannisberger and Liebf r auenmilch. RHUBARB (Fr. Rhubarbe; Ger. Rhabarber; Ital. Reubarbo; Sp. Ruibarbo).—The technical name of the plant (Rheum) is said to be derived from Rha, the ancient name of the Volga, on whose banks Rhubarb grows naturally; but, according to others, the name comes from the Greek rlieo—to flow, alluding to the purgative pro- perties of the roots. There are two or three varieties of Rhubarb grown in this country for culinary purposes— Giant Rhubarb (see Fig. 373), Medium, and small red-stalked Rhubarb, all of which are probably merely cultivated varieties of one stock. Nicholson, in the “ Dictionary of Garden- ing,” recommends the fol- lowing varieties: Cham- pagne, Early Red, Goliath, Linnatus, Paragon, Scar- let Defiance, and Victoria. Lindley, in the “ Treasury of Botany,” informs us that in Queen Elizabeth’s time Rhubarb-leaves were used as a pot herb, and were considered superior to spinach or beet. The use of the tender leaf-stalks is compara- tively of modern date, for although they are now so common during the spring and early part of the summer, it was not until the beginning of the present century that they came to be employed for tarts, and were found so valuable for various other culinary preparations. Fig. 373. Giant Rhubarb. They are excellent either stewed alone or with rice, and a capital preserve has been made from them in the form of jam, which is equal in flavour to that made from currants. When too large and old for cooking, the stalks are subjected to a process by which the juice is expressed from them, and made into a delicious wine, similar to that from green gooseberries, and closely resembling champagne; indeed, it may be suspected that much of the so-called champagne commonly drunk is no For details respecting Culinary Processes, Rhubarb—continued. other than a preparation from the stalks of Rhubarb. The juice is stated to contain oxalic acid, as well as nitric and malic acid, in abundance. It is these which give an agreeable taste to the stalks when cooked, but which render them ill-suited to persons of weak digestion. In the Gardener's Chronicle, Mr. A. Forsyth first directed attention to another part of Rhubarb as being suited for culinary purposes, and to which he gave the name of Rhaflower. This is the large globular pouch of unopened flowers, which is described as being of a beautiful colour when dressed in the same manner as Rhubarb, of a milder flavour, and forming altogether a dish of great delicacy. Bottled Rhubarb.—Cut the required quantity of stalks of Rhubarb into pieces about lin. long after they have been peeled (if young they will not require it), put them into wide-mouthed bottles with a little water in each, and place the bottles in a saucepan of cold water with a little hay between them; when the water boils, continue to boil for a quarter-of-an-hour, cork the bottles quickly, take them out when cool, wax them over, ami they are ready. Preserved Rhubarb.—Cut 81b. of Rhubarb into pieces about 2in. long. Put 31b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into a preserving-pan with just sufficient water to pre- vent it burning at the bottom, put in the Rhubarb, with the thinly-shred rind of a large lemon, and place it over a gentle fire. When it boils, remove the pan on to a fiercer fire, and let the contents boil quickly, but taking great care not to let it burn. Skim carefully, and in about half-an-hour’s time the Rhubarb will lie sufficiently boiled. Stand as many glass jars or bottles on the stove to get warm as will lie required, and have ready prepared a small quantity of boiled flour-and-water paste and several rounds of paper a little larger than the tops of the jars. When the Rhubarb is ready ladle it from the pan into the jars and paste the rounds of paper on immediately, putting three pieces over each jar to keep them perfectly air-tight. The first rounds of paper should be pasted to the rim of the jars and the others on to the paper. They should be placed on carefully and smoothly. Each jar should lie filled to the top. Pack them away in a dry store-cupboard. Rhubarb-and-Apple Jelly. Wipe and skin about 51b. of Rhubarb, cut it into small lengths, put it into a pre- serving-pan with 31b. of cooking apples that have been peeled and cored and the thinly-pared yellow rind and strained juice of half-a-dozen lemons, and pour in from li pints to 2 pints of water. Boil the whole gently until reduced to a pulp. When ready, strain the juice through a jelly-bag, pressing the fruit well. AVeigli the juice, put it in the pan with lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar for each pound, boil, and skim until it jellies. When ready, turn the jelly into small jars, and leave it until cold; then put a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy in each, cover with parchment, and tie the jars down tightly. Keep the jelly in a dry store-cupboard for use. Rhubarb Champagne.—Cut some Rhubarb-stalks into small pieces and bruise them; for 51b. of Rhubarb stalks pour over 1 ■gall, of water, and leave them for three days, stirring two or three times each day. At the end of that time, strain, and press the Rhubarb through a sieve, and for each gallon of the liquor put in 31 111. of loaf sugar, and stir it well. When the sugar has dissolved, barrel the liquor. When the champagne has finished working, suspend through the bung-hole a small muslin bag of isinglass, allowing Hoz. of isinglass for every lOgalls. of the liquor; then close the bung-hole down tightly. In six months’ time draw the champagne off into bottles, cork, and wire them down. Keep them standing up for a month, then lay them down in a single row, or in bottle-racks for preference lest any of the lower bottles of the pile should burst and endanger those above. Rhubarb Cheese.—(1) Peel and cut 21b. of red Rhubarb into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, place the lid on, and stew the contents over a gentle fire -until quite tender. Dissolve hox. of gelatine in a small quantity see under their special heads. Utensils, Sauces, <kc.y referred to,