374 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon-Trout —cont in ued. simmer gently, but continually, jor about two hours, basting it frequently with its own liquor. Take out the fish, remove the skin carefully, glaze it, put it on a dish in the oven, glaze it once more, let it remain for about ten minutes, take it out, untie it, put it on a serving dish, garnish with parsley or any other garnish that may be desired, and serve with the strained liquor from the fish in a sauceboat. Salmon-Trout a la Polonaise.—Prepare a marinade with sweet-oil, slices of lemons and onions, a little each of parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Clean a Salmon-trout, crimp it (i.e., cut it in several places down the sides), stud' it with pike forcemeat, and tie up the head. Put the fish in the marinade, let it remain for an hour or so, turning it fre- quently, take it out, rub it well with oil, sprinkle it slightly with salt, put it on an oiled gridiron over a slow fire, and let it cook for half-an-hour. Turn it over so as to cook the other side, taking care that there is plenty of heat towards the back of the fish where it requires more; when done, put the fish on a dish, and serve with a ragout of mushrooms, crayfish tails, and oysters cooked in champagne. The fish should be served with the best coloured side upwards. Salmon-Trout with Truffles.—Scale and draw a Salmon- trout by the gills, and wash it. Peel and chop four fresh truffles, pound them in a mortar, and mix with them a third of their quantity of bread panada and the same of butter. Mix with the stuffing some pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and stuff the fish with it. Put the Salmon-trout on a baking-dish, place a lump of butter on the top, sprinkle over some salt, and bake it in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with the drippings in the pan; twelve minutes later, pour over the fish 1 wineglassful of white wine and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of glaze that have been boiled to- gether ; bake it for fifteen minutes longer. Put the fish on a hot dish, mix with the cooking-liquor a little white wine, boil it, then add a piece of kneaded butter, two chopped raw truffles, and stir it over the tire for three or four minutes longer; remove it from the fire, add the juice of one lemon, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a small lump of fresh butter. When veil mixed, pour the sauce over the Salmon-trout, and serve. SALOOP or SALEF.—An aromatic drink of this name was at one time greatly in favour for invalids in London. The principal ingredient was the farina (called Saloop or Salep) obtained by boiling the tubers of various orchids. This was flavoured with a decoction of sassafx-as, and other things. In Turkey Saloop, flavoured with spice, sugar, and wine, is sold in the streets. SALFICONS.—A French name given to a mince of chicken or ’game with tongue, mushrooms, truffles, and sometimes foie gras; generally used as a stuffing. The following receipts for various Salpicons are reliable: Salpiyon au Chasseur.—Cut the breast of a fine cooked partridge into dice, and put them into a saucepan on the hot range, with 4oz. of butter, 4 wineglassful of good sherry, three blanched chicken’s livers, one truffle, four mushrooms, and |oz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue, all cut into dice. Thicken with 4 pint of hot salmi sauce, and let all cook for five minutes. It may then be used for garnishing. Salpiqon a la Financiere.—Take either the leg or the breast of a roasted chicken. Cut it into dice, and put them into a saucepan with 4oz. of good butter, adding four mush- rooms, one truffle, 4oz. of cooked, smoked ox-tongue all cut in dice, and twelve small godiveau quenelles; thicken with J pint of Madeira sauce, and cook for five minutes. It will then be ready to use as a garnish. Salpiyon a la Montglas.—Mince, as for a julienne, four mushrooms, one truffle, the breast of a small cooked chicken, or of any game, and 4oz. of cooked ham, or the same quantity of cooked, smoked ox-tongue. Put all into a saucepan, adding 1 gill each of veil-reduced Madeira Salpitpons—continued. sauce, and tomato sauce; let this cook for five minutes, and use as required. Salpi<?on with Madeira Sauce au Madere.—Place 4oz. of butter in saucepan, adding 4 wineglassful of sherry, a blanched throat sweetbread cut into dice, four mushrooms, one truffle, and loz. of cooked smoked ox-tongue, all cut the same as the sweetbread. Let this cook for five minutes, then add 4 pint of Madeira sauce, and let it cook again for live minutes. It will then be ready to use for garnishing. SALSIFY (Fr. Salsifis).—The common name for this is the Oyster-plant (Tragopogon jporrifolius) (see Fig. 445), sometimes called a vegeta- ble oyster, because the root, when cooked, has some- times the flavour of oysters. In some respects it resembles scorzonera, having a long tapering root, full of milky juice, not unlike a parsnip. It is cultivated in many parts of the European Continent and Great Britain, but is not so much used as a food as it deserves to be. Boiled Salsify.—(1) Scrape the Salsify till it is quite white, and plunge it into boiling water with 1 hand fill of salt in it, and 1 or 2 spoonfuls of lemon- juice. Make a batter of an egg, 1 table-spoonful of flour, a seasoning of salt, pepper, grated nut- meg, and mace, mixed with water. When the Salsify has boiled quite tender, take it from the lire, and drain it; cut it in pieces, dip them in the batter, and fry them a light brown. Lay the Salsify on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. (2) Wash and scrape the roots, and cut them into pieces about 2Jsin. long. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a small lump of butter, the juice of a lemon, and a piece of salt, and boil them until tender, which will take about an hour. When cooked, drain the Salsify well, put it on a hot dish, pour a rich brown gravy over that has been thoroughly freed of fat, and serve. Boiled Salsify with Beef-Marrow.—Boil some Salsify in highly-seasoned stock; boil some beef-marrow in water. 4\ hen tender, drain the Salsify, and put them on a hot dish; coat the marrow with half glaze, put a piece of marrow on each piece of Salsify, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Boiled Salsify with Butter.—Cut the leaves and thin parts off some roots of Salsify; scrape them, and plunge them into acidulated water; drain the heads, cut them into halves, and boil them in salted water with a dash of vinegar in it and 1 pinch of flour. When cooked, drain the Salsify, cut each head up into pieces lin. long, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, the juice of a lemon, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley ; toss them about over the fire, then turn them on to a hot dish, and „ serve.