409 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectinq Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. SAWS.—These are very useful in a kitchen for the purpose of cutting through bones. There are several kinds, one being combined with a sharp kitchen knife (see Fig. 475), and another of a more substantial character usually Fig. 475. Meat-saw and Knife Combined. used by butchers (see Fig. 476) and capable of cutting through the largest bone. A small ribbed Saw, such as would be used by a carpenter, is, perhaps, the most useful of any in a small kitchen. The advantage of a Saw over Fig. 476. Meat-saw. a cleaver in cutting through bones is that no jagged bits are left, but the dust is equally objectionable, so that all sawed surfaces should be carefully cleaned before cooking or serving. SAXEWEIMAR PUDDING.—See Puddings. SAXON PUDDING.—See Puddings. SCAD.—A fish (Trachurus saurus) about the size of a herring, found very abundantly on the European coasts, and less commonly along the shores of America. Its flesh is too coarse to be of any particular food value. SCALDING.—The term is derived from either the old French escalder, or Latin excaldare, all having much about the same signification. In cookery it is used with two distinct meanings, one being to scald meat or other solid by plunging it into boiling liquid, and the second meaning is applied to liquids which are scalded by being exposed suddenly to a violent heat. Solids are scalded in the process called Blanching, and milk is sometimes scalded to prevent putrefactive changes, SCALES.—See Weights and Measures. SCALLIONS.—Another name for shallots, or onions of Ascalon. SCALLOPS (Fr. Petoncles).—During the months of January and February the epicure indulges his appetite for these beautifully clean and handsome shell-fish. At this time the roe (commonly called the tongue) is full and of a bright orange colour. There are several varieties of them of different sizes, all belonging to the same ichthyo- logical family (Pectinidae). Scallops frequent deep waters and are brought to the surface by dredging. They should be quite fresh when cooked, and care used, or the flesh will be liai’d, tough, and indigestible. The following receipts are strongly recommended: Baked Scallops.—Take the Scallops out of their shells, and trim oft' the beards and all the black parts. Wash the deep shells of the Scallops, dry them, put in the Scallops, and pour J table-spoonful of vinegar over each. I Blanch a small bunch of parsley and chop it finely; mix it with the grated breadcrumbs, season to taste with salt ) and pepper, and bind the mixture into a paste with a little milk. Spread some of the paste over each shell, j strew a few dry breadcrumbs on the top, and put a small ! piece of butter on each. Put them in a brisk oven and Scallops—con tinned. bake for twenty minutes. Serve the Scallops very hot and in their shells, on a folded napkin on a dish. Fried Scallops.—(1) Trim off the beards and black parts, clean the Scallops well, and drain them. Put a good-sized lump of lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the Scallops and fry them until lightly browned. Drain them for a moment on a sheet of paper, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Wash the Scallops in cold water and dry them on a clean towel. While they are being dried put over the fire a frying-kettle half-full of fat, and let it get smoking hot, then quickly roll the Scallops in Indian corn-meal seasoned with salt and pepper, drop them into the hot fat, and fry them a light brown. As soon as they are brown take them up with a skimmer, lay them for a moment on brown paper to free them from fat, and serve hot. Slices of lemon served with the Scallops greatly improve the flavour and appearance of the dish. Watercress, if in season, may replace the lemon. (3) Drain the Scallops from their liquor, lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, and squeeze the juice of a large lemon over them and leave for an hour or two. Make a puree of tinned French peas, mix- ing a small lump of butter with them, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir them over the fire till hot. Prepare a sufficient quantity of frying-batter for the Scallops; when ready, put a good-sized lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then dip the Scallops, one at a time, in the batter and put them in the fat. Fry them till nicely browned all over, then take them out of the fat and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain for a minute or two. Spread the puree of peas over a hot dish, and arrange the Scallops on it. Serve while very hot. Scallop Salad.—Put the Scallops into a basin of salted water and steep them for an hour, then rinse them in plenty of cold water and boil slowly for twenty-five minutes. When cooked, plunge the Scallops into cold water, then drain them and cut them into slices. Cut up the white stalks of a head of celery, put them in a salad- bowl, add the Scallops, pour over them a mayonnaise dressing, and serve. Scalloped Scallops.—(1) Take the required quantity of Scallops out of their shells, trim oft' their beards, and cut them into three pieces each. Put a large lump of butter in a frying-pan with the Scallops, and fry them until nicely browned, shaking the pan all the time. Wash the deep shells of the Scallops and dry them, then fill them again with the Scallops; strew a thick layer of grated breadcrumbs over each, and put a small bit of butter on Fig. 477. Scalloped Scallops. the top. Brown them under a salamander or in a very hot oven, then arrange the shells on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 477), and serve, (2) Clean and trim off the beards of some Scallops; grate some stale crumb of bread as finely as possible, season it with salt and pepper, spread a thick layer of the breadcrumbs at the bottom of a shallow dish, and lay the Scallops on them; cover with more breadcrumbs, and put a few thin slices of butter on the top. Bake them in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour. When cooked, serve them in the same dish. (3) Open and prepare the required quantity of Scallops, removing the beards, &c. Wash and dry the deep shells