258 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. inside with cold water, let it stand till quite cold, then turn into a glass dish, and garnish with guava jelly and candied fruit. Derry Pudding.—Grate the yellow rind of half an orange, and chop the pulp of two oranges very fine, removing all skin and pips. Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two with Jib. of sugar, and when whisked very light, beat in loz. of butter warmed till quite soft, and whisk till the mixture is a smooth cream; add the orange, and continue to whisk for five minutes, then stir in gradually 6oz. of self-raising flour beaten up smoothly with 1 pint of milk. Pour the Pudding at once into a buttered Pudding- tin, fit the cover on, plunge immediately into boiling water, and boil for an hour. Serve hot with jelly sauce. Devonshire Padding.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with five well-beaten eggs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg, and make them into a custard. Put a few slices of cold plum Pudding into a basin, and soak them in a little brandy for two or three minutes; take them out, arrange in a well-buttered mould, putting them crosswise over one another, then pour over the custard, and by this time the mould should be quite full. Cover the mould with a cloth, put it into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. Take it out, turn it on to a dish, and serve with a little custard mixed with brandy poured over. Dingy Pudding (German).—Soak 1 table-spoonful of grated brown bread in as much port wine as it will absorb, then mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, 3 table- spoonfuls of grated chocolate, 2oz. of sweet almonds that have been cut into thin shreds but not peeled, 3oz. of washed and dried currants, and a small quantity of pounded cloves. Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs; mix the yolks first with the above ingredients, then add the whites. Turn the mixture into a buttered mould, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to two-thirds its height, and steam for two hours. Turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of chocolate sauce. Diplomatic Pudding.—-Wash and dry 6oz. of currants, and blanch and cut into fillets 2oz. of pistachio-kernels. Procure a plain mould with a lining to it, ornament it with the currants and pistachios, fill the outer part with a clear, nicely flavoured jelly, and set it in a cool place. Put 1 pint of milk into an enamelled stewpan with a stick of vanilla and loaf sugar to taste, boil until nicely flavoured, and dissolve loz. of isinglass in the milk. Beat the yolks of four eggs into a basin, and stir the flavoured milk gradually in with them. Strain the custard into the stewpan, and stir it at the side of the fire for a few minutes but without letting it boil, then let it cool. Move the lining of the mould, and fill the hollow with alternate layers of sponge cakes and macaroons, strewing between each layer a few chopped candied fruits. Poul- in the custard and stand the mould in a cool place or on ice until the custard is firm. When ready, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and turn the Pudding on to a dish. Diplomatic Pudding with Punch Sauce.—Pare off and remove the skin and string from 4oz. of veal-suet and 3oz. of beef-marrow, lay them in a saucepan with 2oz. of finely- chopped plums and 3oz. of flour, place the saucepan on a slow fire, and stir well with the spatula for six minutes. Add three yolks of eggs and one whole egg, \ gill of sweet cream, J2 gill of maraschino, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and \ saltspoonful of grated nutmeg; stir all together thoroughly for six minutes, not letting it boil. Take it off the fire, and lay the pan in a cool place, adding loz. of whole pis- tachios, 2oz. of macaroons pounded in a mortar, loz. of angelica, and loz. of candied cherries, all well chopped; mix well for one minute. Peel, core, and chop up three medium-sized apples, add them to the preparation, with 2oz. of powdered sugar and 1 table-spoonful of vanilla flavour- ing, and stir all together for twelve or fifteen minutes. Butter and flour a cloth, arrange it in a deep vessel, Puddings—continued. and pour the preparation into it; lift up the four corners, close them together, and tie firmly with a string, leaving- space about the eighth of the contents to allow for swelling. Have ready a saucepan half filled with boiling water, plunge the Pudding in, and boil for fully three hours. Tire Pudding will float, therefore it may be turned now and again until thoroughly cooked. Remove it, drain for two or three minutes, untie, lift it from the cloth, and dress it on a hot dish. Prepare the following sauce: Put into a saucepan J gill of rum, 3oz. of powdered sugar, the grated rind of half an orange, and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Put it on the stove, and as soon as the liquid ignites, put on the lid and let all infuse for one minute. Take the sauce off the fire, and immediately squeeze in the juice of an orange; strain through a sieve over the Pudding, and serve very hot. Down-East Pudding (American).—Put 1 pint of molasses into a basin, and work in lqt. of flour, 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 3 pints of blackberries. Put this into a buttered basin, tie it over with a well-floured cloth, plunge it into a saucepan of water, and boil for three hours. In the meantime, put 1 tea- cupful of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and mix in gradually 1 teacupful of sifted crushed loaf sugar and 1 teaspoouful of brandy. Put the yolk of an egg into a basin, beat it well, and add the white beaten to a stiff froth. Add this to the other mixture, pour in 2 teaspoonfuls of boiling water, and stir well, but very carefully. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour the cream mixture over or round it, and serve. Duke’s Pudding.—Thickly butter a basin, dredge it lightly over with flour, and ornament it inside with raisins ; grate the crumb of a French roll and strew it lightly over the raisins together with 2oz. of thinly-shred citron-peel, and moisten with a wineglassful each of brandy and white wine. Beat four eggs thoroughly with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste, pour it gradually into the basin, and let it stand for some time until the crumbs are well soaked. Afterwards tie the basin over with a Pudding cloth that has been dipped in boiling water and wrung out, and boil the Pudding for an hour. When cooked, turn it out of the basin on to a dish, and serve hot. Uurliam Pudding.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with the grated peel of half a lemon, and when boiling stir in 3oz. each of finely-grated breadcrumb and warmed butter, the beaten yolks of three and the whites of two eggs, and sw-eeten to taste. Butter a tart-dish, line it with puff paste, mask the bottom with a layer of marmalade, pour in the above mixture, and bake for nearly tliree- quarters-of-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. Dutch Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a saucepan with lib. of butter, set the pan on the fire, and stir until the butter is dissolved; then mix in 21b. of flour, eight well-beaten eggs, and lastly 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast. When these are incorporated, add Jib. of finely-crushed and sifted loaf sugar and lib. of well-washed and dried currants. Pour it into a buttered mould or tin, set it in the oven, and bake for an hour. Turn it out when done, and serve at once if wanted for a Pudding; but if allowed to get cold, it makes a very good cake. Dutch Wafer Pudding.—Put 1 pint of cream in a sauce- pan over the fire; when hot, stir in Jib. of butter, and dredge and mix into it Jib. of well dried and sifted flour. When the flour is well scalded in the cream, pour it into an earthenware pan, mix with it the yolks of seven and the whites of three eggs well beaten, with sufficient sugar to sweeten the Pudding; put a cloth over the pan, and let it stand before the fire for an hour. Then bake it in small saucers or patty-pans till the tops are nice and brown. The oven should be pretty hot and the saucers or patty-pans should lie well buttered. Turn the Puddings out on a hot dish, and serve at once with wine sauce poured over them. Editor’s Pudding.—Butter a pie-dish and line it with a rich puff paste; stone some preserved cherries, put them ~ at the bottom of the dish, grate in the yellow peel of a