339 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. with ‘2oz. of cleaned currants. Garnish between the apples with 4oz. of dried cherries, and set a ring of them on top Fig. 394. Turban of Rice and Stewed Apples. (see Fig. 394). Return to the oven for five minutes, then serve. RICHELIEU CAKE.—See Cakes. RICOTTA.—The literal meaning of this term is cooked again, a signification that seems to have been lost to some extent, seeing that it is now applied to a kind of cream cheese which is prepared as follows, and used for making very delicious tarts, for which receipts are given hereunder: Put 2qts. of fresh, strained whey into a flat lined pan, and place it over a gentle fire; when the froth begins to rise pour in 1 pint of milk and stir lightly with a wooden spoon until the whole surface is covered with a thick froth. Skim the froth oft' and drain it in a rush or grass basket, or on a fine sieve or colander. On no account must the milk and whey boil. When well drained, the froth or Ricotta is ready for use. Savoury Ricotta Tart.—Mix six well-beaten eggs with lib. of Ricotta; add 6oz. of finely-minced ham, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Butter a tart-dish, line it with short-paste, spread the mixture over it, and cover with a Hat of the paste; trim it evenly round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake the tart in a quick oven, and serve it while hot. Sweet Ricotta Tart.—Mix with lib. of Ricotta Mb. of caster sugar, loz. of thinly-shred candied peel, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and five well-beaten eggs. Butter a shallow baking dish, line it with short paste, spread the mixture over it, and cover with a flat of the same paste; trim it neatly round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake the tart, and when cooked dust it over with caster sugar, and serve. White Ricotta Tart.—Mix with lib. of Ricotta 4oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, loz. of thinly-shred candied peel, jib. of caster sugar, the yolk of one egg that has been beaten up with h teacupful of milk, and a few drops of orange-flower water. Work the whole until all the ingredients are well mixed, then stir in lightly the whites, of three eggs that have been whisked to a stilt' froth. Butter a tart-dish, line it with a good puff paste, and spread the mixture over it. Dust over the top with caster sugar and powdered cinnamon, using only a small quantity of the latter ingredient, and bake it. Serve the tart while hot. RIND.—This is an Anglo-Saxon word signifying bark or crust, as of bread ; used in more modern times to denote the external covering or skin, as of fruit, bacon, &c. RINFRESCO.—A liqueur resembling anisette, manu- factured in Modena. RING'S.—A great number of different rings are manufactured in cookery, consisting of paste, sugar, apples, Rings—continued. and other fruits. These are all described under their particular headings. RISCASOLI CAKE.—See Cakes. RISSOLES.—This word is derived from the French risoler—to fry brown. They are usually prepared by rolling out a piece of puff paste to the thickness of a penny, stamping this into rounds, putting a small ball of croquette-meat in the centre (see Fig. 395, .A), doubling the paste over to make a half circle (see Fig. 395, B), and Fig. 396. Making Rissoles (Second Method). frying in hot fat. Another method is that of rolling out a long strip of paste, arranging down the centre a few balls of croquette-meat, folding over, and cutting B Fig. 397. Making Rissoles (Third Method) out in half rounds with a scalloped cutter (see Fig. 396); or several rows of balls may be arranged over the half of a sheet of paste (see Fig. 397, A), which is then folded over