TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 288 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits — continued. Put the trimmings into a mortar, pound them well, mix them into some reduced Spanish sauce, pour the whole over the collops, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, place the dish in the oven, hake until cooked, and serve very hot. Curried Fillets of Rabbits.—Cut some fillets of Rabbits into halves, lard them, and braise them in the same way as sweetbreads. Thoroughly wash |lb. of the best rice, and boil it till nearly cooked; then drain it, put it into a stewpan with 4oz. of butter and 1 pinch of saffron, and finish cooking it. Put two or three slices of onions and the same of apples into a stewpan, with 4oz. of butter, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and five or six peppercorns, and toss them over the fire till brown and tender; dredge in 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and flour, and stir it till mixed; then pour in gradually 4 pint of white sauce and 1 pint of white stock. Boil the sauce for fifteen minutes, then strain it through a fine hah- sieve into another saucepan, skim it, season with salt and pepper and 1 pinch of sugar, and boil it up again. When cooked, glaze the fillets, brown them under a salamander, lay them in a circle on a hot dish, pile the prepared rice dome- shaped in the centre, pour a little of the sauce round the fillets, and serve them with the remainder in a sauceboat. Curried Rabbit.—(1) Cut a Rabbit into joints, and soak them in salted cold water for half-an-hour; then drain, and put them into a saucepan with A-lb. of salt pork cut into strips, one onion cut in slices, a small bunch of parsley nicely washed, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and suffi- cient cold water to barely cover; let it stew till the Rabbit is tender, then take the meat out and lay it on a dish near the fire to keep hot. Let the liquor boil for five minutes, then take it from the lire, let it stand a few minutes for the fat to rise, skim it, and strain it. Put it over the fire again, blend 1 table-spoonful of corn- flour with a little of it, and when it is almost boiling stir it into the rest, stirring till it thickens; then mix in 1 dessert-spoonful of good curry powder, put in the Rabbit and tiie pork, and keep all quite hot for a-quarter-of-an- hour without letting it boil; then take the meat out and pile it on a chafing-dish. Add \ pint of cream and two beaten eggs to the gravy, and stir it for one minute; then pour it over the meat, cover it, and let it stand in the chafing-dish for five minutes before serving. (2) Peel and slice a Spanish onion and one large sour apple, put them in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned; next stir in 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of curry paste, and 1 pint of broth. Cut the Rabbit into small pieces, splitting the head, dredge it with flour, and put it with a slice of bacon cut into small pieces in with the other ingredients. Put the lid on the stewpan, and stew the contents gently until the meat is tender and will easily leave the bone (it will require about tliree- quarters-of an hour to cook). Prepare a border of plain- boiled rice upon a hot dish, and when the curry is cooked skim off all the fat, and turn it into the centre of the dish. Serve while very hot. (3) Cut the Rabbit up into moderate-sized pieces ; melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, and then put in the pieces of Rabbit, with two or three peeled and thinly-sliced onions, and 4oz. of bacon cut into thin pieces. Toss the Rabbit over the fire until the pieces are lightly browned, then strew over them 1 table-spoonful each of flour and the best curry powder ; stir in 1 pint of common stock, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let the curry simmer at the side of the fire for an hour, or until the pieces of Rabbit are tender. Boil some rice till very soft, then beat it up with a small quantity of butter; pack it in a border mould, which stand in a bain-marie for a few minutes. Turn the border out of the mould on to a hot dish, and lay the pieces of Rabbit in the centre. Skim the fat off the sauce, move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Pour the sauce over the Rabbit, and serve. Rabbits—continued. (4) Cut the remains of some cold cooked Rabbit into small pieces. Work 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder well with jdb. of butter. Peel and slice four or five large onions and two shallots. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in the onions and shallots, and fry them until nicely browned ; next put in the mixed curry powder and butter, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then put in the pieces of Rabbit, and fry them for fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring frequently. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. (5) Put lib. of pickled pork into a saucepan with twc or three onions and a sprig or two of thyme ; pour over lqt. of water, put the saucepan on the fire, and boil until done. Skin and clean a young Rabbit, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil it also until quite tender. Take out both the pork and Rabbit, and cut the pork into thin slices and the Rabbit into joints. Place the head chopped in halves, liver, neck, &c., back into the saucepan with the onions, together with all the bones of the pork, put the saucepan on the fire, and boil for an hour, skimming frequently; then strain the liquor into another saucepan, reduce it, add the pieces of Rabbit and pork, and simmer gently for about half-an-hour. Take out the onions, rub them through a fine sieve into a basin, and mix them up with 1 teacupful of milk or cream in which 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 teaspoonful each of curry powder and curry paste have been mixed to a smooth paste. Put this into the saucepan with the Rabbit, stir it well over the fire until the liquor is quite thick, turn the contents of the pan out on to a dish, and serve with boiled rice. (6) Cut some cold cooked Rabbit into convenient-sized pieces. Peel and slice a large onion, put it into a stew- pan with 4oz. of butter, and fry it until nicely browned; dredge it over with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, and fry it two or three minutes longer; next put in the pieces of Rabbit, dust them over lightly with salt, and toss them over the fire for two or three minutes. Moisten with about § breakfast-cupful of milk, stirring it in slowly; put the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents simmer- ing at the side of the fire for about fifteen minutes. Squeeze the juice of a small lemon into the curry, turn it out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofitons of fried bread, and serve with a plate of cut lemons. (7) Cut the meat of a cold cooked Rabbit into small pieces. Mix 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of curry powder into a paste with jjlb. of butter. Peel and chop six moderate-sized onions, put them into a stewpan with three finely-minced shallots and a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly browned, taking care not to burn them. Put the curry paste in with the onions, and when it has dissolved put in the pieces of meat, and stir them over the fire until they are very hot. Turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve. Devilled Rabbit.—Cut a Rabbit into joints and parboil them; when they are perfectly cold, score them to the bone, making the cuts about |in. apart. Melt over the fire 3oz. of butter, mix with it a little cayenne pepper, salt, and mustard, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and 1 tea- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce; stir all this well to- gether, rub every piece of Rabbit with it, rubbing it well into the scoring, and broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, turning the pieces as soon as they begin to drip. When they are brown, lay them on a hot dish, melt some butter, and pour it over them. Let them lie in this for three or four minutes, turning them frequently. If any of the mixture is left, pour it over them, and serve. Epigramme of Rabbits.—Cut the fillets oft' three large Rabbits, and divide each fillet into halves ; lard half of these, and leave the remainder plain. Braise the larded fillets like sweetbreads, brush them over with glaze, and brown them under a salamander. Put the plain fillets into a frying-pan with a lump of butter and the juice of half a lemon, dust some salt and pepper over them, and fry them slowly, turning when done on one side and