TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 371 B Salmon—continued. cool, then pour over them some oil and vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Pour a little white aspic jelly into a plain border-mould, and when it has set arrange tastefully, inside the mould, some cabbage lettuces cut in quarters, hard-boiled eggs, turned olives, and picked prawns; fill tbe mould with aspic jelly. When the jelly has set, turn the border out of the mould on to a dish, arrange the collops of Salmon inside the circle, and pour over them some half-set aspic seasoned with chopped ravi- gote, pepper, salt, and a little vinegar. When set arrange on the jelly another circle of Salmon collops, but going the reverse way to the first; pour over them some more jelly, and when set proceed as before, reversing and dim- inishing the circles to form a dome. Pour over some more jelly; put half a tard-boiled egg in the opened heart of a cabbage lettuce, fix it on the top of the salad, and serve. Salmon Soup.—Put lilb. of Salmon in boiling water without salt, and boil it till tender. Drain the fish, remove the bones and skin, cut it into halves, and divide one of the pieces into flakes. Put the other half in a mortar with a little butter, anchovy essence, the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of flour; pound them well, then put them in a saucepan and stir in gradually sufficient clear stock to make the required quantity of soup; add a bunch of sweet herbs, a little lemon-juice, 1 pinch each of cayenne pepper and sugar, and a little salt. Boil the soup, then strain it through a large-holed colander, and put it again in the saucepan; add the flakes of Salmon and boil it up again. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast. Salmon Toast.—Cut as many slices of bread as are re- quired, trim oft’ tbe crusts, and toast them a delicate brown; butter them, and lay on each slice a very thin piece of smoked Salmon; dust them over with pepper, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them into a brisk oven for a few minutes. When very hot, arrange the pieces of toast on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Scalloped Salmon.—Cut some fresh Salmon into thin collops, and press them with the blade of a knife that has been dipped in cold water. Put a piece of butter in a sauce- pan, and when melted lay the collops in, side by side ; dust over them a little pepper and salt, and cook them quickly over a sharp fire. Warm some stock that has been reduced, season it with chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, and lemon-juice, thicken it with the yolks of eggs, and drain the butter off the fish in with it. When nicely cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Soused Salmon.—Put some slices of cold boiled Salmon in a deep dish, sift pepper over them, and cover with vinegar and the cooking-stock of the Salmon mixed in equal quan- tities. This makes a capital cold dish for breakfast or lunch. Stewed Salmon. -Cut off a couple of lib. slices or steaks from a Salmon, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them; lay them in a flat saucepan, cover with finely-cut pieces of cooked ox-tongue and a few small lumps of butter, pour over 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of sherry and h teacupful of water, cover closely, and set it on the stove or fire where it will steam without simmering. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with stewed mushrooms. Vol -au-Vent of Salmon.—Prepare a putt' paste, giving it four turns, then gather it up and leave it in a cold place or ice-chest for half-an-hour. Roll the paste into a lOin. square, put it on a plate 9Ain. in diameter, and with a sharp knife trim round the edges; put another plate about 7in. in diameter in the centre, dip a sharp-pointed knife in hot water, and cut round the smaller plate, allowing it to go two-thirds through the paste. Put the paste on a Hat baking-tin and bake it for three-quarters-of-an-hour, being careful not to let it burn. When the vol-au-vent is taken from the oven, lift out the centre piece, and scoop out the inside with a spoon. Fill it with 141b. of cooked For details respecting Culinary Processes, Salmon—continued. Salmon that has been heated in a thick cream sauce. Put the cover on again, and serve at once. Kippered Salmon.—When Salmon is not in season, the flesh being deteriorated by spawning or other causes, it is usual to cut them open, salt them, dry them, and smoke them. They are then supplied to our markets as Kippered Salmon. They are prepared as follow: Split the Salmon down the back, and remove the roe and'inside; scale, remove the backbone, and wash the fish well, taking care that no blood remains. Put the Salmon in a deep dish, cover it with salt, moist sugar, and black pepper mixed in equal quantities, and leave it for three days, turning it frequently. Drain the Salmon from the pickle, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top, and leave it for two or three days longer; then cover it with ground black pepper, and dry it in a warm place, keeping it flat with skewers. Smoke the Salmon over dried seaweed and oak sawdust, or paint it with pyrolig- neous acid. Boiled Kippered Salmon.—Flake lib. of Kippered Salmon and put it in a saucepan with three chopped hard-boiled eggs, 2oz. of butter, a little flour, and 1 pint of milk; stir it over the fire till boiling. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes, turn them on to a hot dish, pour the Salmon mixture in the centre, and serve. Broiled Kippered Salmon.—Cut the Salmon into strips, and wrap each separately in buttered paper ; make a gridiron hot and grease it well, lay the pieces of fish on it, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them occasionally. When broiled, remove the paper, put the pieces of fish on a very hot dish, and serve them at once. See Fig. 442. Canapes of Kippered Salmon.—Fry in clarified butter some fingers of bread, 24in. long, l Jin. wide, and jin. thick; when lightly browned, drain them, and leave them till cold. Mask the pieces of bread with anchovy butter, put some thin slices of smoked Salmon on each, sprinkle over them some chopped hard-boiled egg and parsley, and serve. Devilled Kippered Salmon.—Cut some Kippered Salmon into thin slices; soak three or four thin plain biscuits in clarified butter with a mixture of gravy, ketchup, vinegar, made mustard, chutney paste, and a small quantity of salt. Beat the whole well together, and mask the slices of Salmon with it. Wrap each slice separately in a sheet of white paper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Take the slices of Salmon out of the paper, lay them on a hot dish, and serve. Fried Kippered Salmon.—Put the slices of Kippered Salmon in a deep dish, cover them with salad-oil, and let them macerate for several hours. Drain the oil off' the Salmon into a frying-pan, and when boiling put the pieces of Salmon in, and fry them quickly for four or five minutes. Drain the Salmon, put it on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve at once. Kippered-Salmon Paste.—Cut the Salmon into nice- shaped pieces, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and bake them. The pieces of fish must not be cooked too much, but when sufficiently done, trim off the skin, Hake the meat, put it in a mortar, and pound well, adding by degress some small pieces of butter. Season the paste with pounded mace, nutmeg, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Pack it into small jars, and tie them tightly oxer. Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads.