THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 251 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Ptarmigan—continued. (2) Pluck, draw, singe, and truss two or three Ptarmigan, lard the breasts, wrap the birds up in slices of fat bacon, and roast them in front of a clear fire for lialf-an-hour, basting frequently. Have ready a few slices of toast in the dripping-pan, place them on a dish with a bird on each, ami serve with 1 sauceboatful each of fried breadcrumbs and rich gravy. If desired, the Ptarmigan may be stuffed with breadcrumbs soaked in warmed butter. Salmis of Ptarmigan a la Chasseur.—Pick, singe, draw, and wipe two Ptarmigan, cut off the wings, legs, and breasts, put the carcases into a saucepan, sprinkle over a little salt, and cook in the oven for six minutes. Take them out, chop them up, return them to the pan with 1 pint of white broth and a bunch of sweet herbs, and cook on a moderate fire for fifteen minutes longer. Put loz. of butter into a saute pan, place in the legs, wings, and breasts, season with salt and pepper, and cook over a sharp fire for three minutes on each side; pour in J wineglassful of Madeira and J pint of Spanish sauce, add the zest of a lemon and the strained liquor from the carcases, and cook for twelve minutes longer; add twelve mushrooms cut in halves, cook for another four minutes, turn the whole out on to a hot dish, and serve with any desired garnish. FUCHERO.—This is to Spain what the pot-au-feu is to France. To be thoroughly appreciated it should be eaten in Spain, where it would probably be prepared as follows: Put 21b. of brisket of beef into an earthenware stock- pot, and add Jib. of blanched ham or salted pork, a pig’s ear cleaned and singed, a fowl’s giblets, and 3 handfuls of “garbancos” (a kind of chick-pea) that have been softened in water. Pour over 5qts. or 6qts. of water, put the stock- pot on the lire, and skim frequently. As soon as the liquor begins to boil remove the stockpot to the side of the fire and let it remain for a couple of hours. Add a bunch of chervil, a small quantity of “ liierba buena ” (wild mint), a large slice of “courge” (pumpkin) without the peel and seeds, a large carrot, two leeks tied together, half of a blanched savoy cabbage, and a head of cabbage lettuce. Let these simmer gently for an hour, then add a “chorizo” (a kind of pork sausage), and continue the cooking. When the soup is done, pour it slowly into a sieve placed over a saucepan and then into the soup- tureen, and add the leeks and cabbage lettuce cut up into small pieces, and a few slices of bread fried in butter. Serve with the beef put in the centre of the dish and surrounded with the chorizo, ham, giblets, &c., and the remaining vegetables. PUDDINGS (Fr. Poudings; Ger. Puddinge).— Under this heading are given a variety of receipts for the preparation of certain dishes which have no more definite appellation. The term itself, which, according to Skeat, is of Celtic origin, is in culinai-y parlance extended so widely by the fancies and tastes of cooks that it is difficult to assign any limitation to its application. Webster describes a Pudding as a species of food of a soft or moderately hard consistency variously made, and this we are compelled to accept, having nothing more definite to offer. For numerous other Puddings see their special headings. Acid Pudding.—Pare off the yellow rind as thinly as possible from four large lemons and one Seville orange, and steep it in 1J pints of boiling water until the flavour is well extracted; then strain the water and mix with it the strained juice of the lemons and fib. of moist sugar. Slice three small plain sponge cakes, lay them in a glass dish, and pour the above mixture carefully over them. When the cakes are well soaked, stick 2oz. or 3oz. of blanched and split sweet almonds over them, mask them well with a little dissolved jelly, using strawberry, rasp- berry, or lemon, and serve. Adam-and-Eve Pudding.—Thoroughly mix lib. of white breadcrumbs moistened with milk, Jib. of finely -chopped beef- suet, Jib. of caster sugar, six eggs, the zest of two lemons, Jib. of sultanas, and lib. of apples peeled and coarsely cut up. Puddings—continued. Put the mixture into a mould greased with butter, and either steam or bake in the oven, standing the mould upright in a tin containing a little water. Bake for an- hour and-a-half, and serve with a custard sauce made with 1J pints of milk, 6oz. of sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and ljoz. of cornflour flavoured with brandy. Adelaide Pudding.—(1) Put the whites of three and the yolks of six eggs into a bowl, and beat them well. Put 1 pint of water and 9oz. of sugar into a saucepan and boil; when scum rises, pour it over the eggs, add the grated rind and the juice of a lemon, and whip the whole well together for about twenty minutes. Dredge in slowly about 8oz. of flour, and when well mixed, pour it into a buttered tin or mould, set it in a quick oven, and bake for twenty minutes; then turn it out, and serve. (2) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and add an equal quantity of sugar, four well- beaten eggs, and the grated rind of a lemon. W hen all are incorporated, turn the mixture into a well-huttered mould or tin, set it in a slack oven, and bake gently for about twenty minutes. Turn it out, pour over a little wine sauce, and serve. Agnew Pudding.—Peel, core, and quarter 21b. of nice cooking apples, and stew them together with moist sugar to taste, and a small piece of lemon-peel, if the flavour is liked. 'When reduced to a pulp, remove the lemon-peel, if any were used, and beat the apples up well with two eggs that have been whisked to a froth and 3oz. of slightly- warmed butter. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into a pie-dish, the edges of which should be lined with puff paste, and bake. When the paste is cooked, the pudding is ready for serving. Albemarle Pudding.—Slightly warm 4oz. of butter and beat it until frothy, then mix with it 4oz. of sugar and the grated rind of one lemon. Whip separately the whites and yolks of three eggs, then mix all the ingredients to- gether, sifting in gradually Jib. of flour, and continue beating the whole until quite smooth. Butter a Pudding- basin and ornament it with raisins that have been split into halves and stoned; pour in the mixture very care- fully so as not to displace the raisins, cover the top with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for an- hour-and a half. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Albert Pudding.—(1) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and work in gradually 4oz. of finely- powdered crushed loaf sugar. When these are well incor- porated, beat in the yolks and whites of five eggs (beaten separately), then 8oz. of dried and sifted flour, the grated rind of a lemon, and lastly 8oz. of well-washed and stoned raisins. Arrange slices of candied lemon- and orange-peel at the Fig. 314. Ai.uert Pudding. bottom of a mould, pour in the Pudding mixture, tic over with a cloth, and boil or steam it for about three hours. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over a little punch sauce, and serve. (2) Sift 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix it with the yolks of seven eggs, working them well together