259 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Puddings—continued. lemon, anil add the juice; cover them with thin slices of buttered roll, over that put a layer of cherries, next a layer of buttered roll, and so on till the dish is nearly full. Caster sugar should be sifted between each layer. Beat seven eggs with J teacupful of cream and 1 wine- glassful of brandy, pour them over the Pudding, and bake it. Serve either hot or cold. It is much improved by * ' freezing. Essex Pudding.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of sago to soak in just sufficient cold water to cover it, and let it steep all night. Next day put it into a flat stewpan with just enough water to cover it, and let it stew till quite soft and it has absorbed all the water. Beat up five eggs, work into them Jib. of sugar, and then by degrees J pint of milk, and stir in Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, beating it to a batter. Next put in 3oz. of finely-chopped suet, after that 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended with a little cold milk, and lastly the boiled sago and a sprinkling of salt. Continue to beat the batter vigorously for some time. Put about Jib. of raisins with the stalks picked off into a basin, pour boiling water over them, and let them lay in it for two minutes. Butter a Pudding-tin, putting on the butter very plentifully, and lay the raisins in a pattern of rings or stripes over the bottom and sides, stick- ing them firmly in the butter; then put the Pudding into the tin a spoonful at a time, not to disturb or disarrange the raisins, cover the tin, and steam for an-hour-and-a- lialf, or boil for an hour. Dip it in cold water, let it stand a minute, and turn it out on a hot dish. Serve jelly sauce with it. Eve’s Pudding.—Peel, core, and chop three large apples, and mix with them an equal weight each of grated bread- crumb, well-washed and dried currants, linely-chopped suet, and moist sugar; also the grated peel of one lemon, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and allspice. Beat six eggs with 1 wineglassful of brandy, and stir them in with the dry ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Butter a Pudding-basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a cloth over the top, and boil it for three hours. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Excellent Pudding.—Blanch Joz. of sweet almonds with two or three bitter ones, cut them into thin fdlets, put them into a basin with 6oz. of pea-flour, 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Separate the yolks and whites of four eggs, beat the yolks, and stir them in with the above ingredients ; then whisk the whites to a stiff snow, and mix them in lightly at the last. Butter a Pudding-tin, pour the mixture into it, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water. Steam the Pudding for an hour, then turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve. Flame Pudding (German).—Warm 4oz. of butter and beat it with 4oz. of caster sugar to a creamy froth. Separate the yolks and whites of ten eggs; beat the yolks and add them to the beaten butter, then mix in smoothly 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of blanched and pounded almonds and Jib. of sifted flour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, stir them in lightly with the above mixture, and make the whole rather thick with grated stale sponge cakes. Thickly butter a Pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a stout Pudding-cloth over the top, put. it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, fix a small glass in the centre of it, which fill with brandy, allowing some to run over the sides, set light to it, and serve immediately. Fortunatus’ Pudding.—Slightly warm 3oz. of butter and beat it until creamy with 3oz. of caster sugar; then beat in two eggs. Butter a shallow dish and line it with puff paste, spread a layer of apricot or any other kind of jam preferred over the bottom, and pour in the batter. Bake the Pudding for a quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes. Serve it on the same dish. Frankfort Pudding.—Melt Jib. of butter in a basin, work it to a cream, and add the yolks of six or seven eggs, Puddings—continued. beating well until the mixture is quite frothy; then stir in 5oz. of almonds, blanched and pounded, with the same quantity of crushed loaf sugar flavoured with vanilla, and the whole rubbed through a sieve before being added. Mix these well for a few minutes, then add 4oz. of brown bread dried, crumbled, and rubbed through a fine sieve; when this is incor- porated, add 4 taWe- spoonfuls of fi n e 1 y- chopped mixed candied peel and a small quantity each of ground cinna- mon and salt. Work in the wldtes of six eggs whipped to a froth, turn the mixture into a dome-shaped mould with a shoulder ridge (see Fig. 321) well buttered and glazed with sugar, put "it in a saucepan of boiling water, place in a bain-marie or in a slack oven, and bake for from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour round cherry sauce, garnish round the shoulder ledge with half cherries, and serve. French-and-Italian Pudding.—Beat six eggs and mix them with 1 pint of cream or milk, then add lib. of finely- chopped suet, and as many slices of roll as will thicken it; sweeten the mixture with caster sugar. Butter a pie- dish, line it with puff paste, then put in, in alternate layers, some slices of apple, some stoned raisins, a few sliced and stoned dates, some finely-shredded candied orange-peel, some sugar, and a small quantity of mixed spice. Pour the above mixture over it, and grate a little nutmeg on the top. When lightly browned, take the Pudding out of the oven, and serve. Frozen Pudding.—Put 1 teacupful of flour in a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and beat in a couple of eggs; pour in 1 pint of boiling milk, turn the mixture into a saucepan, and cook for twenty minutes; then add 2 table- spoonfuls of soaked gelatine, stir well, turn the mixture out into a basin, and let it cool. When quite cold, add 4 table-spoonfuls of wine, another breakfast-cupful of sugar, and lqt. of cream. Pack the basin in ice, let it remain for ten minutes, then add Jib. or lib. of French candied fruit, stirring it well in. Put the mixture into a mould, pack in ice, and let it remain for two or three horn's, or until quite firm. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve with whipped cream piled round it. Fun Pudding.—Peel, core, and cut in slices sufficient apples to three-parts fill a pie-dish, dredge over a little caster sugar, cover the apples over thinly with a layer of butter, and over this again put a layer of apricot jam. Put 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and cream into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot and a small quantity of crushed loaf sugar; stir it well over the fire until the liquor boils, then pour it over the jam; put the dish in a moderate oven, bake for twenty minutes, and serve. German Pudding.—(1) Cut off about lib. of slices of bread from a household loaf, put them in a flat dish, pour over milk enough to cover, and let them soak thoroughly; then squeeze them dry and beat them up with a wooden spoon. Add 5oz. of warmed butter, beaten to a cream, with the yolks of five eggs and the grated peel of a lemon, and stir in lastly the whites of the five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put a rather thick layer of this mixture at the bottom of a buttered mould and a layer of orange mar- malade on the top of it; continue in this way till the mould is full, finishing up with a layer of the bread mixture. Cover the mould, tie it in a cloth, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, mask the top with more of the orange marma- Fig. 321. Dome-Mould with Shoulder Ridge. For details respecting Culina.ry Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. S o