TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 395 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. English mustard, 4 teaspoonful of salt, and the same of pepper. Mix well together, adding 4 table-spoonfuls of oil and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, but keep the Sauce sufficiently liquid. Serve when required. Robert Sauce.—(1) Chop a peeled onion into Jin. dice, and fry it in 1 table-spoonful of butter until it is brown, then add 1 teacupful of vinegar, ancl_ boil rapidly until the vinegar has nearly evaporated. Next stir in 14 breakfast- cupfuls of any cold brown gravy; or, stir in first 1 table- spoonful of dry flour, and let it brown, and then mix in H breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water. Season the Sauce highly with salt and pepper, and simmer it slowly for fifteen minutes. Just before using it, stir in 1 dessert- spoonful of mustard. (2) Peel and cut three or four onions into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with 4 teacupful of salad-oil, and fry them till lightly browned; then add 4 teacupful of vinegar, boil it, pour in 1 pint of brown Sauce and broth, mixed in equal quantities, and add a small piece of garlic and about half a clove. W hen the Sauce is boiling, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for ten minutes ; then skim it, stir it over the fire, and boil it quickly till of a rather thick consistency. Move the Sauce oil’ the fire, thicken it with 2 table-spoonfuls of French mustard, season with a little salt and sugar, and serve it. (3) Fry two small chopped onions in a saucepan with Jib. of butter; when lightly coloured, put in 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till browned; then add 1 pint of stock, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 4 teacupful of vinegar, and a little cayenne and salt. Let the Sauce simmer for five minutes, then skim it, stir in 1 teaspoonful of dry mustard, and serve. (4) Cut into small pieces three onions, and fry them in a little butter; when lightly browned, drain, put them into a stewpan with f pint of French white wine, and boil till reduced to a glaze; then pour in lqt. of Spanish Sauce, and when boiling move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Skim the Sauce, stir into it 1 table-spoonful of meat glaze and 1 table- spoonful of unmixed mustard, mix it thoroughly, and serve. (5) Fry any bones or pieces of meat that have been cut off some veal cutlets with an equal quantity of trimmings of bacon; when nicely browned, drain the fat oft' the trimmings and put them in a stewpan. Fry three chopped onions in butter, then put them into the stewpan with the bones, &c., pour in 1 pint of water, and boil it till reduced to two-thirds. Skim and strain the gravy, thicken it with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour that has been mixed with a 1 little cold water, and stir it over the fire till cooked; then add 1 table-spoonful of butter and a little mixed mustard. When the butter has dissolved, the Sauce is ready for serving. Royal Sauce.—(1) Put 4oz. of fresh butter and the yolks of three raw eggs into a small saucepan, and stir them over ' the fire till the yolks begin to thicken, but do not let them cook hard. Take the Sauce off the fire, and stir in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 2 table- spoonfuls of Indian soy, one finely-chopped green gherkin, 1 small pinch of caye ine pepper, and a little salt. When well mixed, keep tfie Sauce in a cool place. When cold, serve in slices with fish. (2) Whip 4lb. of butter to a cream, then Beat in the yolks of four eggs, add 4 table-spoonful each of tarragon vinegar and elder vinegar, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of soy, and a very small quantity of pounded mace. Turn the above ingredients into a saucepan, putin two or three little pieces of butter, stand the saucepan in a large one containing boiling water, place it on the fire, and stir the Sauce till thick and smooth, adding a little more elder vinegar if too thick. Serve the Sauce while hot. Sachsen Sauce for Fish.—Put 2oz. of butter into a sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well browned; then put in 1 table-spoonful of minced shallot, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and half that quantity of white vinegar. Pour in sufficient of the liquor in which fish has been boiled to Sauces—contin ued. make the requisite quantity of Sauce, and boil it for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring it at the same time. When ready to serve the Sauce, put in two or three thin slices of lemon and a lump of butter, allowing the latter to oil on the top. Sailor's Sauce.—-Chop three shallots, two truffles, and a fowl’s liver; put them into a saucepan with 1 table-spoon- ful of oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of gravy, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, season with salt and pepper, anil let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Skim the Sauce well before using it. St. Menehould Sauce (a la Ste. Menehould).—Put about Jib. of butter into a saucepan and melt it, dredging in at the same time some dried flour, and stir till well mixed; then pour in slowly 1 pint of new milk, add some mush- rooms and chibbals, or small onions, season the Sauce with pepper and salt, and let it simmer, stirring occasionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and boil it up again with some chopped parsley. It is then ready for serving. Salmi Sauce.—(1) Mix together in a small saucepan 1 table- spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir it over the fire till lightly browned ; then pour in J pint of white wine and an equal quantity of broth, add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped shallots and carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a lump of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Boil the above ingredients till reduced to about half their original quantity, pass it through a sieve, then mix in the meats, &c., prepared for the hash. (2) Add to 4 pint of Spanish Sauce a little cayenne, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of Russian cranberries, and 4 glass of port wine. Boil for five minutes, and if it is too acid add a little sugar. This is a suitable Sauce for wild ducks, cutlets, hashes, &c. Sauce for Boar’s Head.—(1) Cut the rind very thin off two Seville oranges in small slips about 4in. in length, scald them in boiling water, drain them upon a sieve, and put them into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of mixed mustard, 4 table-spoonfuls of currant jelly, a little pepper and salt to taste, and mix well together; then add 1 tumblerful of good port wine, warm up together in a small saucepan, strain, and serve in a tureen. (2) Stir into 1 teacupful of red-currant jelly 2 table-spoon- fuls of best mustard and 1 teacupful of vinegar in which some shallots or small onions have been pickled. Serve as a Sauce in a tureen. (3) Take 6 table-spocnfuls of red-currant jelly, and dilute it with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine ; add to this the juice of two bitter oranges and part of the thinly-grated rind, lightly boiled and nibbed through a fine sieve. Serve in a sauce-tureen. Sauce for Boiled Brisket of Beef.—Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, and melt it; add 1 table-spoonful of finely- chopped or sliced onions, and brown them; add gradually 14 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir well, and sprinkle in 1 tea- spoonful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Mix well, pour in slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and lastly 2 wineglassfuls of vinegar. Stir well to prevent the Sauce being lumpy. Have ready a boiled fresh brisket of beef on a dish, pour over the Sauce, sprinkle over it six minced pickled gherkins or French beans, and lastly the minced yolks and whites of six hard-boiled eggs. Serve hot. Sauce for Cold Salmon.—Beat the yolks of two eggs well with 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, pour it into a lined stewpan, and stir it over the fire until thickened and on the point of boiling; then move off, and leave the Sauce until cold, stirring it occasionally. Mix with it 1 wine- glassful of vinegar, and serve. Sauce for Crabs.—Slightly warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with a wooden spoon; then mix with it 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire until thickened, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. It is then ready for serving.