312 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see xtnder their special heads. Raspberries—continued. Raspberry Syrup.—(1) Put 61b. of Raspberries into an earthenware pan, press them gently, sprinkle with 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and let them remain for ten or twelve hours. Pass the juice through a very fine sieve, measure it, pour it into a preserving-pan, and boil for twenty minutes, skimming frequently. To each breakfast-cupful of the juice add 4oz. of loaf sugar, roughly crushed; boil until the liquor commences to thicken, pour it into an earthenware bowl to cool, and then into bottles. Cork and seal them, and put in a dry place until wanted. (2) In selecting the fruit for this care must be taken to reject unsound or damaged berries. Put the required quantity into a tub, mash them well with a pounder, and set it in a place with a temperature of from 70deg. to 80deg., and let it remain for twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally. Press out all the juice, leave it for a night, and in the morning mix with Cologne spirit or deodorised alcohol, using loz. avoirdupois of the latter to each pound avoirdupois of the juice. Stir well, and leave it till the following day, then filter it. To each pound of this put into a saucepan or vessel I Jib. of the best sugar, bring it to the boil, remove the pan or vessel at once from the heat, take off the scum, and pour it when cool into clean bottles rinsed with a little of the above named spirit. Cork and use as desired. (3) Acidulated.—Pour lqt. of water into a basin, dissolve in it 2Joz. of citric or tartaric acid, add 61b. of Raspberries, and let it stand for a day. Strain it, taking care not to break or injure the fruit, and to every break- fast-cupful add 1 -Jib. of crushed loaf sugar, stirring well until the latter is dissolved. Let- it remain for three or four days, pour it into bottles, cork and seal them, and the syrup may then be used. A small quantity of this syrup in a tumblerful of water makes a refreshing summer beverage. (4) Imitation.—Put loz. of orris-root into a mortar with 2 drachms of cochineal, powder them coarsely, put them into a vessel with 2 drachms of tartaric acid and 2 pints of water, and let them infuse for twenty-four hours. Strain through flannel into a saucepan, add 4lb. of sugar, bring it to the boiling point, strain again, and bottle when cool. Raspberry Tablets.—Put 71b. of loaf sugar and 6 break- fast-cupfuls of water into a sugar-boiler with about ioz. of cream of tartar, boil for about ten minutes, and work in lib. of melted butter. As soon as the butter is added the sugar will begin to froth, taking up twice the room previously used. Boil to a very weak crack, colour a deep red, and stir in essence of Raspberries to taste and a very little tartaric acid. Pour the whole on to an oiled slab, and when it commences to cool turn over the edges and knead it until it is stiff enough to be pulled. Pull it over a hook fixed in the wall until quite spongy, form into long ribbons, and cut it into tablet shapes; then let them get quite cold before packing away in bottles or tins. These must be kept away from the air, otherwise they will have a sticky tendency, especially in summer time. Raspberry Tart.—Line a flat dish with rich paste, ever this spread 12oz. of apple marmalade, place a strip of paste round the rim, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Remove the tart to the oven door, sprinkle it over profusely with caster sugar, push it back into the oven, close the door, and bake for about two minutes to melt the sugar. Take it out, let it get cold, scoop out with a spoon about half of the apple, fill it up with 14 pints of well-picked and cleaned Raspberries, spread over the top with 2oz. of apple jelly, and serve cold. Raspberry Tarts with Cream.—Butter some rather large patty-pans, and line them with a thin layer of puff paste. Pick the Raspberries over carefully to remove all the stalks, &c., put them in the pans, dust with caster sugar, and cover with paste, trimming it off neatly round the edges. Bake the tarts in a quick oven. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 4 pint of cream, and sweeten slightly with caster sugar. When the tarts are cooked Raspberries—continued. lift the covers, pour in the cream, replace the covers, and put them in the oven for seven or eight minutes longer. The tarts may be served hot or cold. Raspberry Trifle.—Pick all the stalks off some freshly - gathered ripe Raspberries, lay the fruit in a basin, sift caster sugar over them, arid leave for an hour or two. Cut two or three stale sponge cakes into slices, lay them at the bottom of a glass dish, pour 1 wineglassful or more of sherry over them, and let them soak. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with it, and whisk it. Skim the froth off the cream as it rises and put it on a fine sieve. Pass the Raspberries through a fine sieve on to the cakes, pile the frothed cream on the top of them, and serve. The dish may be ornamented with a selected few of the fruit (see Fig. 366). Raspberry Venice Cakes.—Put 411). of sifted crushed loaf sugar into a basin and beat it up with six eggs, adding gradually 8oz. of butter warmed to a cream. When these are well mixed dredge in 8oz. of flour, spread the mixture on a tin to about fin. thick, and bake it in a moderate oven. Let it cool, open it with a knife, put a layer of Raspberry jam inside, mask the top with royal icing, cut it into shapes, let the icing set, and the cakes are then ready for use. Raspberry icing may be used if preferred. Raspberry Vinegar.—(1) Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of dis- tilled white vinegar with an equal quantity of syrup of Raspberries or the spirit essence, and bottle. (2) Put the Raspberries in a large bowl and mash them well; for every quart of fruit pour over lqt. of vinegar. Cover the jar and stand it in a warm temperature for two or three days. When ready, strain the vinegar until clear through a jelly-bag, and for every quart sweeten with 111), of lump sugar. Put the vinegar over the fire until it begins to boil, then skim off any scum that may have risen to the top, let it simmer gently for five minutes, move it away from the fire, and leave it until cold. Pour the vinegar into small bottles, cork tightly, and put them away till required for use. (3) Put 61b. of Raspberries into an earthenware jar, pour over 1 pint of white vinegar, and let them macerate in a cool place for nine or ten days. Remove the scum, pass the liquor through a jelly-bag into another jar, pour over an equal quantity of syrup at 32deg. (sec SUGAR BOILING), stirring well. Pour it off into bottles when cold, cork them down, and keep in a cool place. Aerated mineral waters or spring water should be mixed with it when wanted for use. (4) Yorkshire Style.—Put lgall. of Raspberries (red or white) into a preserving-pan on the fire or gas-stove, and stir continually with a wooden spoon until the juice runs. Strain through a jelly-bag back into the preserving- pan, and add lib. of loaf sugar to_ each pint. Boil and skim till no more scum rises, pour it into a jar with an equal quantity of distilled white vinegar, pouring in a little of each at a time, and mix in 4 gill of French i __ brandy (cognac) to each pint of the combined liquors.