336 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bice—continued. and fill the cavity with rich forcemeat or sausage-meat. Turn them out on a dish, and pour round some good brown gravy. Garnish in between them with fried parsley. See Fig. 391. Bice Quische.—Prepare a short-paste with lib. of flour, the yolks of two eggs, and 5oz. of butter; spread this over a buttered baking-sheet, and place a few small lumps of butter over it. Put £lb. of Itice into a saucepan with more than sufficient milk to cover, and boil slowly until the Rice is done, add a little cream, three or four eggs, and 3oz. of butter. Mix well, sprinkle over a little grated nutmeg and sugar, spread the mixture over the flat of paste, dredge over a handful of grated Parmesan cheese, put the sheet into the oven, and bake. When done, take out the quische, and serve. Bice-and-Raisin Pudding.—Wash Mb. of Rice, mix with it Mb- each of stoned raisins and sugar, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put all together into a cloth, tie it very loosely, allowing room for the Rice to swell, and boil for three hours. Serve hot with sweetened butter sauce. Bice Shape.—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the Rice is quite soft, adding during the cooking the finely-chopped thin rind of a lemon, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, a laurel-leaf, a little cinnamon, and 2oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar. Put the mixture into a mould, pressing it down tightly, turn it out -when cold, and serve with a garnish of any preserve. (2) Put {■ 1 b. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with lqt. of milk, add 2toz. of sugar, a little grated lemon- peel, and cook slowly at the side of the fire until the Rice is soft and all the milk absorbed. Put the prepara- tion into a mould, pressing it in, turn it out when cold, and serve. Bice Snowballs.—Put 4oz. of washed Rice into a sauce pan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, add 2oz. each of sifted crushed loaf sugar and blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and boil slowly until the Rice is quite soft. Fill some moulds (see Fig. 392) with the mixture, turn them out on to a dish when cold and firm, and serve with custard or sweet sauce. Bice—continued. Bice-and-Sorrel Soup.—Thoroughly wash some Rice and sorrel, and boil them separately in salted water until three parts done. Skim perfectly free from fat as much clear stock as will make the required quantity of soup, and turn it into a saucepan. When ready, drain the Rice and sorrel, chop the latter finely, and add them to the stock; finish cooking the whole together. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Rice Souffle.—Boil 3qts. of milk, flavouring it with vanilla or any other flavouring that may be desired. Wash 11b. of Rice well in warm water, and put it over the fire in a saucepan of cold water. When it has boiled for a few minutes strain it, put it into the flavoured milk, set it on the fire, and as soon as it boils take it from the fire and put the saucepan on hot ashes so that the Rice may burst gradually; let it remain for three- quarters-of-an-hour, add a small lump of salt, fib- of fresh butter, and lib. of powdered white sugar. Renew the hot ashes under the saucepan so that it may be kept simmer- ing for fifteen minutes longer, then if the. Rice is suffi- ciently soft, rub it quickly through a cloth into another saucepan so that it shall not cool, and keep it on hot ashes. Beat separately the yolks and whites of sixteen eggs to a stiff' froth. Stir the beaten yolks into the Rice in the saucepan; the mixture ought then to be of the con- sistency of cream. Next stir in very lightly a fourth part of the frothed whites, and afterwards stir in the remainder very lightly, as lightly as for biscuit-paste. Have a crou- stade baked and ready, 3|in. high and llin. in diameter, pour the mixture into this, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half. Take it from the oven, and place it immediately on a baking-tin covered with red cinders to prevent its falling while it is masked with powdered white sugar and glazed with a salamander. Have ready a dish with a hot napkin folded in it, place the souffle on it, and serve as quickly as possible. Bice Soup.—(1) Boil an onion, peeled, a stick of celery, and 1 teacupful of Rice in 1 pint of water till the Rice is perfectly soft; then mix into it 1 table-spoonful of flour stirred well over the fire into loz. of butter; add and mix in with the 1 lice strained stock made of veal-bones till the soup is of the required thickness. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add last thing 1 table-spoonful of cream, pour it into the tureen, and serve. (2) Wash 1 teacupful of Rice and pick it over carefully to remove any impurities, put it in a saucepan with a lump of salt and sufficient water to cover, and boil it until the grains burst. Then strain off' all the water, put a folded cloth on the top of the saucepan, and leave it at the side of the fire. Clarify as much stock as will be required for the soup, flavour it nicely, and boil it up; next stir in the Rice and turn it into a soup- tureen. Serve the soup with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (3) Put into a saucepan lib. of lean ham cut into slices; then cover it with 2lb. of veal and beef also cut in slices, and on the top of this again place a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, four onions, two turnips, and two or three heads of celery all cut into small pieces. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of water, toss the pan frequently over the fire for half an hour, pour in 3qts. more of boiling water, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and cook slowly for about two-hours-and-a-half. Skim well, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add |lb- °f dry boiled Rice and 1 table-spoonful of browning, boil for ten minutes, turn the soup into the tureen, and serve very hot. (4) Steep 4oz. of Rice in cold water for an hour, then boil it with sufficient water to cover; add 3qts. of gravy,, season with a pinch of cayenne and a little salt, and boil for live minutes before serving. (5) Almond Flavour.—Put lOoz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with (.gall, of slightly-salted water; boil up, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and stir until the Rice is soft. Pour in lqt. of boiling milk, boil for fifteen minutes more, and season well with salt and pepper. Pound 3oz. or 4oz. of blanched almonds, put them into a