379 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. SAPUCAIA.—This is a name given to the nuts of j a Brazilian tree (Lecythis Zabucajo), sometimes called Paradise Nuts. They are commonly sold in our fruit j shops, and are considered infinitely superior to Brazil nuts, to which they are closely allied. The flavour is more delicate, and the kernels are more easy of digestion. They are about 2in. long and lin. wide, covered with a longitudinally-furrowed corky shell, and grow in large hard woody fruits, shaped like m-ns, measur- ing about 6ft. in diameter, and having close-fitting lids at the top. Our supply comes from Para, and is principally the produce of the Brazilian forests. SARDINES (.Fr. Sardines; Ger. Sardellen; Ital. Sardelle; Sp. Sardinas).— It is said that these fish derive their name from the Island of Sardinia, where it is possible they may have been first caught and appreciated. They are said by naturalists to be the young of the herring, and are caught along various parts of the European coasts. Those of the French coast are con- sidered the best, owing in a measure to the greater care with which they are preserved, and the superiority of the oil used. An article that appeared in the Grocer's Chronicle gives us the following important information: “ In the case of decorated tins see that they bear the name of a French place, such as Nantes, L'Orient, Concorneau, Douarnenez, Port Louis, &c., besides the name of the packer, and make sure that they have been imported direct from France, as the French law prohibits the importation into France of foreign goods labelled or stamped as though they had been made or prepared in that country. The mere fact of the tins having the name of a French place on them is no guarantee what- ever that the Sardines are French. A buyer can only be sure of it if he can trace them to a Bordeaux steamer, or to a Willow Walk Station. For white tins there is no absolutely safe test at present, since they may have had their labels changed in France, as, notwithstanding the charges, the difference of value would make this a profitable transaction. It has been stated that the French law compels Sardine-packers to solder their tins at the side in the form of a tube; this is not correct, and plenty of Portuguese brands are soldered in the same way. With the present extreme scarcity of French Sardines, which shows no signs of giving way to more plentiful supplies, buyers are advised to discard the notion that there are no other really good Sardines to be got. There certainly have been, and still are, plenty of inferior Spanish and Portuguese Sardines sold, and some- times passed off as French ; but, on the other hand, there is no reason why a first-class article should not come from these countries, and as year after year the fishing is growing from bad to worse in France, some of the wealthiest French packers have put up factories of their own in Portugal, where the fish is selected and packed by tried old French hands, in the same way, in the same sweet Italian olive oil, and the same spices which they use in France; and by their own labels, those firms guarantee a superior quality in every respect. No French connoisseur or epicure will dream of refusing a first-class Portuguese Sardine thus packed if he cannot get the French article; and. although it must be admitted that Sardines caught on the French coast possess a delicacy of flavour not to be found in others, the high-class French-packed Portuguese Sardines are sure to find equal favour with the English public in the long run, and in the absence of the old French fish. Spanish and Portuguese packers are themselves to blame for the pre- judice which has grown up against their brands. Finding a market for cheap fish only, they could not afford to be particular either in the choice of the fish or in the quality of the oil (native instead of Italian) they used, and even at the present time the pick of the Portuguese fish is bought by French packers at comparatively high prices, whilst the bulk (which is not always of the finest or freshest kind) finds its way into native hands.” Sardines—continued. The mode of preserving them, as practised in the largest establishments, is as follows : The Sardines are thoroughly washed and their heads cut off. They are then plunged into oil that is nearly boiling for just two or three minutes. They are then drained and packed closely in tin boxes, which are subsequently filled with cold oil, which may or may not have been flavoured with bay-leaves; the boxes are then soldered down, and marked or labelled ready for the market. Sometimes Sardines are served in the box, the lid being simply opened along three sides, and bent up. This box may be enclosed in a case or ornamental box (see Fig. 447), or prepared according to the numerous receipts given hereunder: Baked Sardines.—Skin twelve Sardines, put them on a dish in the oven, and heat them through. Put the oil from the Sardines into a small saucepan, and when it boils mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 breakfast- cupful of water; stir it over the fire till thick, then add 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and season with salt and cayenne pepper; move the saucepan off the fire and add the yolk of an egg that lias been beaten together with I teaspoonful each of mustard and vinegar. Take the dish of Sardines out of the oven, pour the sauce over them, and serve while very hot. Bouchees of Sardines.—Pound one or two boned Sardines in a mortar together with a small quantity of cheese, and add salt, pepper, and chilli vinegar until the mixture has the taste and appearance of dressed crab. Mix in a few chopped oysters; put the mixture into small cases of bread fried in butter, and garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and mixed with finely-chopped parsley. Arrange these bouchees on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Broiled Sardines.—Select twelve good-sized firm Sardines; put them in a double broiler, and broil for two minutes on each side over a very brisk fire. Place six pieces of toast on a hot dish, lay the Sardines on, being careful not to break them, pour over 4 gill of maitre-d'hotel butter, garnish with six quarters of lemon, and serve. Canapes of Sardines. —(1) Bone six or eight Sardines, put half of them in a mortar with the hard-boiled yolks of three eggs, and pound them, mixing in gradually suffi- cient butter to form a smooth paste. Season the mixture with a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley, chives, and tarragon, mustard, pepper, and a small quantity of vinegar. Rub all the ingredients together until quite smooth. Cut slices of bread into oval-shaped pieces and fry them in butter until well browned, but not too dark a colour. When fried, drain them, and spread over with the Sardine mixture. Arrange the slices on a dish over which has been put a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper. Cut a few more Sardines into small fillets, lay them on the canapes with very small slices of pickled gherkins and a few shelled prawns. This is a very pretty dish, and simple in construction. (2) Boil some eggs hard, remove the yolks, and mix them with an equal quantity of Sardines; rub them to a