321 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Rhubarb—continued. of sugar, and stew it gently at the side of the fire. Make some good short-paste, line some buttered tartlet-pans with it, trimming it off neatly round the edges, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them in a moderate oven. Mix the well-whisked white of an egg with i- pint of cream, and sweeten it with loaf sugar that has been rubbed on the yellow rind of a lemon and then pounded, and whisk it to a stiff froth, standing the basin if possible over ice. When the tartlets are cooked, turn the rice out, and take them out of their tins; fill each with some of the Rhubarb, and pile the cream on the top of them. Spread , a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, I arrange the tartlets on it, and serve. Rhubarb Vinegar.—Boil 3qts. of water and let it get cold; bruise 7lb. of Rhubarb in a tub, pour the water over it, and let it steep for ten days, keeping it frequently stirred. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and pour it into a barrel with 21b. of moist sugar for every gallon. Paste a piece of strong paper over the bung-hole, and prick it full of holes to admit the air. Rhubarb Wine. —(1) Take 91b. of ripe Rhubarb cut small, add lOgalls. of soft water, and boil it in a copper pan till the Rhubarb is quite soft; then strain the liquor through a sieve, and add to it 2 or 3 handfuls of barm, either dried or fresh. Add to each gallon of liquor Mb. of Malaga raisins stoned and chopped, and 31b. of loaf sugar, and stir it till the sugar is melted. Let it cool till it is lukewarm, put it into a cask, and in three weeks bung it down. Bottle it in six months. It will keep for twenty years, but will be fit for use in three months. (2) Procure green Rhubarb-stalks, bruise them, and weigh them ; for each 41b. of the fruit allow lgall. of water, mix them together, and leave for three days, stirring well two or three times each day. At the end of that time strain the liquor, pressing the Rhubarb to extract as much of its juice as possible. For every 3galls. of the liquor mix with it 1 pint of the best pale brandy and 10.Ub. of loaf sugar. Barrel the wine, and suspend through the bung-hole a small quantity of isinglass tied up in muslin. The wine should only three parts iill the cask. Bung the cask up tightly, and leave it for half a year. When the wine is ready, draw it off into bottles, cork them tightly, and stow them away for use. The wine should not be bottled until the sweetness is sufficiently off, it may therefore require longer than the specified time. Stewed Rhubarb.—(1) Take some thick sticks of Rhubarb, cut them in pieces about 14m. long, and plunge them into fast-boiling water. As soon as they are tender (about three minutes ought to be sufficient), drain off the water and serve the Rhubarb with plenty of white sifted sugar strewn over it. Fig. 376. Stewed Rhubarb (2) Put a saucepan of water on the fire, and when the water boils plunge in lib. of Rhubarb cut into pieces about 2in. long; push the pieces to the bottom, cover the pan, and boil for about three minutes. Strain off the water, turn the Rhubarb out on to a dish, sprinkle over Mb. of caster sugar and the grated rind of a lemon, and serve. (3) Cut 21b. of Rhubarb into convenient lengths, removing all the stringy parts, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water, stir it well with a wooden spoon, stew it gently Rhubarb—continued. until tender, and then strain off all the water. Do not let the Rhubarb over-cook, or it will break. Turn it into a glass dish, strew over it lib. of loaf sugar and the grated rind of two lemons, also their strained juice. Leave the Rhubarb until cold, then pile over it some well- whipped cream (see Fig. 371>) or custard. The loaf sugar should be put in lumps over the Rhubarb, not crushed. Stewed Rhubarb and Figs.—Peel and wipe about 311). of Rhubarb, cut it into small pieces, put them in a deep dish, and cover them first with Mb. °f hgs and 2oz. of candied lemon-peel, all cut up small, and over that sprinkle about 2Mb. of moist sugar. Let them remain in this way for a day or so, then tie the dish over with a cloth, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for an hour. Take it out, and serve; or the ingredients, after they have remained for a day, may be turned into a saucepan and then boiled. RIBBON CAKE.—See Cakes. RICE (Fr. Riz ; Ger. Reis; Ital. Riso; Sp. Arroz).— What the cook knows as Rice is the cleaned grains of seeds (see Fig. 377) of a grass (Oryza sativa) which grows in huge bunches on soft marshy lands. It is supposed to be of Asiatic origin, “ though,” says Lindley, “travellers in South America mentioned finding the Rice-plant ap- parently in a wild state on t he banks of the rivers there. Throughout the Chinese Empire and the continent of India, as well as all the f great islands in the Indian Archipelago, Rice is the principal, and frequently the only food of the great mass of the population. In the Southern States of America, whence it has formed a valuable article of exportation, its culture did not begin sooner than A.D. 1700, when it is said to have been accidental.” Its cultivation in Europe is limited chielly to Lom- bardy. Several varieties of Rice are known to commerce, distinguished chielly by the name of the country or district which produced them. The finest comes from Caro- lina, and a very fine quality is grown in the neighbour- hood of Patna, in the pre- sidency of Bengal, India. “ As an article of diet,” Cooley tells us, “Rice is highly nutritious and wholesome when combined with fresh animal or other nitrogenised food; but, owing to the very small quantity of ‘flesh-formers ’which it con- tains, and its comparative destitution in saline matter, it is totally unfit to form the principal portion of the diet of the working-classes, or the poorly fed, at least in this climate.” It does not appear so well calculated for European consti- tutions as the potato, for we find the poor constantly reject it when potatoes can be had, this preference evidently depends on something more than mere whim or taste, for, some years ago, when Rice was substituted for potatoes in some of our Union Workhouses, the most serious con- sequences followed. In one of these, nine or ten deaths from scurvy and allied diseases occurred in a single fort- night. Large quantities of Rice are annually imported into Britain, and used by distillers in the manufacture of spirits. In China, it is much used in making wine. Fig. 377. Rice. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. Y