357 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—continued. Fisherman's Salad.—Cut six boiled potatoes into slices; trim oft’ all tlie skin and hone from about 11,1b. of cold boiled fresh fish, and divide it into flakes with two forks. Take a quarter of a cabbage, cut it into shreds, and put them in a Salad-bowl; lay the slices of potatoes on the top, then put on the fish. Sprinkle over the salad 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions and pickles, dust in a small quantity of salt and pepper, pour over the ingredients 1 teacupful of vinegar, and 1 J teacupfuls of Salad-oil. Finely chop two hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle them on the top of the Salad, and serve it. Florida Salad.—Cut up lib. of pumpkin into symmetrically - shaped pieces, and boil them for a few minutes in salted water. Prepare a bed of finely-shredded lettuce and endive, and set the pieces of pumpkin upon it. Pour over all a dressing made by mixing 1 teacupful of salad-oil with rather less than 1 teacupful of vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and stir in 2 teaspoonfuls of linely-chopped sweet herbs. French Salad.—(1) Chop finely a bunch of parsley, two shallots, and six anchovies ; lay them in a bowl, and mix with them mustard and salt to taste, 2 table-spoonfuls of Salad-oil, and 1 gill of vinegar. Mix all well together, and then add, two or three at a time, some very thin slices of cold roasted or boiled meat, not more than 3in. or 3|in. long. Shake the slices well in the dressing as they are put in. Cover the bowl close, and let the Salad stand three hours. Serve garnished with parsley and some slices of fat meat. (2) Cut up some well-washed endive, lettuce, dandelion- leaves, or other salad herbs, and mix with them small quantities of chopped shallot or garlic, chervil, and tarragon. Mix together 1 teaspoonful of salt, J teaspoonful of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of Salad-oil, and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put the Salad herbs into a Salad-bowl, stir the mixture of oil, spice, and vinegar, pour it over the Salad, and stir it all together. Any cold meat or fish cut small may be added to this Salad. Genoa Salad.—Boil a small sea-swallow, and leave it till cold; then cut the fillets into small pieces, and put them in a basin with a crayfish tail, boiled and cut into slices; dust some salt and pepper over them, and cover them with oil and vinegar in equal quantities. Boil separately, but in equal quantities, some heads of asparagus, beetroot, artichoke bottoms, French beans, salsifies, carrots, cauli- flowers, green peas, and potatoes. When cooked, drain the vegetables, and cut them up into small pieces; place each vegetable on a separate plate, dust some salt anil pepper over them, and moisten with oil and vinegar. Stone some olives, and put them in a basin with some chopped gherkins and pickled mushrooms, a small quantity of capers, some fillets of anchovies, and some boutargue cut in thin slices. Cut two slices of bread lin thick, and dry them in the oven; then cut off the crusts, rub them on both sides with a clove of garlic, and soak them for a few minutes in vinegar and water; then lay them at the bottom of a dish. Drain the vegetables and the fish, and arrange all the articles on the pieces of bread, building them in such a way that they present a dome of varied shades, and in as regular order as possible. Garnish three silver atellettes with prawns, and stick them in the dome, one in the middle, and the other two at the sides. Fry a small quantity of pignoli-nuts in oil, and when nicely browned, drain them, and put them in a mortar with a few swelled pistachios, and the grated crusts of the two slices of bread, the cooked trimmings of the fish, and the fillets of four anchovies, seasoning with a small quantity of chopped parsley, mint, and cayenne pepper. Pound the mixture to a paste, pass it through a fine hair sieve, then mix gradually with it 1 breakfast-cupful of oil, and mix with it the oil and vinegar in which the fish and vegetables were marinaded. Pour some of the sauce over the dome, the rest in a sauceboat, and serve. German Salad. -(1) Put Mb. of pickled cabbage in cold water for a few minutes, then drain it, and cut it into shreds. Pour some boiling water over Mb. of sour-crout; in five minutes, drain it off, and leave "it till cool; then Salads—continued. cut it into shreds, and mix with the cabbage, and add one chopped and blanched onion, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated horse radish, J table-spoonful of chopped chervil, J tea- cupful of oil, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and pepper and salt. Fix a paste croustade on a dish, fill it with the Salad, and serve. (2) Cut lib. of cold boiled beef into long narrow strips, put them in a Salad-bowl with 2 table-spoonfuls each of minced onions and minced pickles, a sliced beetroot, a small quantity of finely-shred pickled red cabbage, two boiled and sliced potatoes, two hard-boiled eggs, one finely-chopped pickled pepper, and some tarragon and sorrel-leaves. Put J pint of Rhine wine in a basin, with J l teacupfuls of Salad-oil, and 2 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Beat the liquids till well mixed, then pour them over the Salad, and toss it about with a fork ; then stand the bowl over ice or in an ice box, and leave it for four hours. At the end of that time the Salad is ready for serving. (3) Blanch about 11 b. of sauer kraut in boiling water for ten minutes, then drain them and leave them till cool. Put the leaves in a Salad-bowl, and grate a root of horse- radish over them. Boil three or four Frankfort sausages for twenty minutes; when cooked, drain and leave them till cold; then cut them slantwise into pieces about fin. in length. Put the pieces of sausages over the sauer kraut, and garnish round with some slices of black radishes, and sprinkle over the Salad about 1 table-spoon- ful each of chopped shallots, pickles, and capers. Pack the Salad-bowl in pounded ice and leave it for a few hours. Mix some oil and vinegar together, allowing the oil to predominate, season the mixture with salt and pepper, and when ready, serve it with the Salad. Italian Salad.—(1) Peel some carrots and turnips, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then boil them in chicken broth, with a little salt and some sugar. Boil the broth till reduced to a glaze, then take the carrots and turnips out and leave them until cold. Cut some beetroot, boiled potatoes, and the carrots and turnips into slices Jin. thick, and mix them all together in a basin, and add some chopped ravigote, oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Fix a paste croustade on a dish, put the Salad in it, and serve. (2) Put two Dutch herrings in water or milk, and soak them for an hour. Finely chop Jib. of cold roast veal, half that quantity of German sausage, three or four small pickled beetroots, the same of small pickles and sour apples, and three boiled potatoes. Arrange the fish in the centre of a dish, to represent the hub or nave of a wheel, and arrange the other ingredients like spokes. Cut the whites of some hard-boiled eggs into crescents, and arrange them round the wheel to represent a tyre. Put the milt of the herring in a mortar, and pound it to a paste with 1 teaspoonful of French mustard and a small quantity of salt; then mix in H teacupfuls of Salad-oil and J teacup- ful of tarragon vinegar. When the ingredients are well incorporated, pour the mixture over the Salad. Pack the bowl of Salad in ice, and leave it for a few hours. When ready to serve, sprinkle 1 table-spoonful of minced capers over it; or the capers can be omitted if liked. (3) Remove all the bones and skin from the white flesh of some cold fowl, and cut the meat into small pieces. Pile it in the centre of a round dish, prepare a sufficient quantity of nice Salad-dressing, mixing cream with it, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the fowl. Arrange round the dish a border of nicely picked and washed watercress, endive, and small hearts of lettuces. Boil a few eggs hard, put them into cold water until cold, then peel and cut them into slices; lemove the yolks, and arrange the rings of white on the top of the salad. Cut a boiled beetroot into slices, trim them into small rounds, all of one size, put a round in each egg ring, and serve. Japanese Salad.—Mince three medium-sized truffles very fine, also two large cold boiled potatoes; put the whole into a basin, and season with J pinch each of salt and pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg; pour over \ wineglassful of champagne, and let it stand for two hours. Add