THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 2 47 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Prawns—continued. into the saucepan with the stock, add a small lump of butter well kneaded in Hour, the strained juice of a lemon, and 2 table spoonfuls of anchovy sauce. Set the saucepan on a clear fire, and boil for forty-five minutes ; then add the remaining pint of Prawns, and when they are quite hot, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve at once. (2) Clean half-a-dozen whiting and a large eel; put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, set the saucepan on the fire, and boil, skimming frequently until no more scum arises. Add a bunch each of thyme and parsley, a little ginger, one onion, three cloves, and a few whole peppers, and continue to boil until all of them are boiled to a mash. Pick out the meat from about a hundred Prawns, put the shells into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, vinegar, and salt, and boil for a few minutes; strain off the liquor and pound the shells in a mortar with a French roll, gradually adding the shell liquor. Put this mixture into the saucepan containing the whiting-and-eel soup, add the meat of a lobster finely minced, pour in lqt. of good beef gravy, and then add the meat from the Prawns. Roll a lump of butter in a little flour, add it to the soup to thicken it, warm the whole over the fire, add a little more seasoning if required, turn the whole into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot. Salpiijon of Prawns.—Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan with four mushrooms, one truffle, and the meat from six Prawns all chopped up small. Thicken this well, let it cook for five minutes, and then serve. Salpiqon of lobster, crayfish, or shrimps will answer when Prawns are not attainable. Scalloped Prawns.—To lqt. of the meat of boiled Prawns allow 1 qt. of dried breadcrumbs, 1 gill each of vinegar and tomato ketchup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter. Put these ingredients into an earthen dish in layers, with a seasoning of salt and pepper, making the top layer of crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve the scalloped Prawns hot, in the dish in which they were baked. Several small dishes or scallop-shells may be used in place of the large dish if preferred. Shrimps can be cooked in the same way. Stewed Prawns.—Pick out the meat from 2qts. of Prawns, put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of white wine, and add a small blade of mace. Set the pan on the fire, and cook them for about fifteen minutes; then stir well and pass them with the liquor through a sieve. Put this into another saucepan, and add a grated nutmeg, a small quantity of salt, and 4oz. of butter well kneaded in flour, and toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes longer to finish the cooking. Put a round of toast cut into quarters at the bottom of a dish, pour the stewed Prawns over, and serve with a few sprigs of parsley for garnish. Tinned Prawns Sautes.—Put a can or tin of Prawns into a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and toss the pan over the fire until they are perfectly hot, but not browned. Sprinkle over 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and cayenne or other pepper. Turn them when done on to a hot dish, pour over the contents of the pan, and serve with a garnish of slices of lemon cut in quarters. PRESERVES and PRESERVING. — These terms are so indefinite in their literal sense that, in spite of their being generally accepted to signify the manu- facture of jams, jellies, &c., they may be considered inconvenient for the use of the cook or confectioner. Many different modes of Preserving are described under different headings in this Encyclopaedia, and reference should be made to them for any special information or instruction. See also Jam. PRICKLY FEARS.—These are the fruit or berries (see Fig. 309) of a cactus (Opuntia) common to various parts of America, other varieties being found along the shores of the Mediterranean and some parts of India. They are usually sent to table as follows : Remove the skin of the fruit by cutting a slice off both ends; then make an incision lengthwise through the skin, Prickly Pears—continued. and peel it off with one quick motion. Cut the fruit into slices, put them on a glass dish, cover with white sifted Fig. 309. Prickly Pear. sugar, pour over 1 wineglassful of brandy and the strained juice of an orange, and serve. PRIMROSES.—The flowers of a spring plant {Primula vulgaris) closely allied to the cowslip. They are supposed to have a peculiarly delicate flavour, resembling new milk, for which reason they are sometimes used in cookery. Primrose Pudding.—Decorate a well-greased mould with any fruits, such as dried cherries, pistachios, almonds, &c. Put 4lb. of sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, stir in 1 table spoonful of sugar, and pour over 1 teacupful of boiling milk. Finely chop lib. of suet (mutton for preference), add to it the breadcrumbs, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Primrose petals, and three eggs (one at a time, beating well after each addition so that the pudding may be quite light). Pour the mixture into the mould, taking care not to disarrange the decorations, tie over with a cloth, and steam for an-hour-and-a-quarter. Turn out and serve with champagne sauce. Primrose Salad.—Gather some young shoots before the leaves begin to develop, tie them in bunches, and soak them in salted water for lialf-an-hour. Drain the Primroses, and boil them in slightly-salted water for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain them, and leave till cool. Put the Primroses in a salad-bowl with a small quantity of onion (or the onion may be omitted if not liked), pour over them a plain salad dressing, and serve. Primrose Vinegar.—Put Gib. of the coarsest brown sugar into a large pan with 4galls. of water, and boil it for a- quarter-of-an-hour. Clear the liquor with the shell and white of one egg. Put 1 peck of Primroses, with their stalks on, into a tub, anil strain the boiling liquor through a fine hair sieve over them. When quite cold, mix in jib. of yeast, and leave for a couple of days, stirring it often every day. At the end of that time turn the whole into a barrel, cover the opening lightly with a sheet of paper, and keep it in a warm place. In about ten months the vinegar will have turned sour, when it may be drawn off into bottles, and corked down tightly. Primrose Wine.—For this the Primroses should be freshly gathered. Mix Gqts. of them without their stalks with 2qts. of cowslip-pips. Put 7 Alb. of loaf sugar into a saucepan or sugar-boiler with \oz. of powdered ginger and 2£galls. of soft water, anil boil for forty-five minutes, skim- ming frequently. Clarify by adding the well-beaten whites of two or three eggs, and continue the boiling and skimming until the liquor is perfectly clear. Pour this while still boiling over the flowers, stir well, and add 141b. of stoned and chopped raisins and the juice and thin rinds of three lemons; cover the vessel securely, and let the whole infuse for fully three days, stirring well once or twice a day. Then warm up the liquor, and work in j teacupful