390 THE' ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces—continued. liquor has reduced a little, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Pound some mixed herbs (fresh ones) in a mortar and strain the juice into the Sauce; thicken it with yolks of eggs, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and serve. (3) Pound in a mortar one sprig of parsley and three spikes of chervil; add three medium-sized vinegar pickles, half a small white onion, one anchovy, and 1 teaspoonful of capers. Mix these with soaked bread the size of an egg, and pound all well together. When this is reduced to a paste, rub it through a fine sieve, put it in a bowl, and stir well, adding A breakfast-cupful of olive oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, A teaspoonful of pepper, and A table-spoonful of salt. This Sauce should be firm and green. Grill Sauce.—(1) Mix about A table-spoonful each of cream, vinegar, Harvey’s Sauce, and tomato ketchup in a stew- pan, stir in smoothly 1 heaped teaspoonful of mustard, season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire until hot. Serve the Sauce poured over the grill. (2) Rub about loz. of butter into \oz. of mustard-flour mixed up with 1 pinch of white pepper and cayenne. Put them into a saucepan, which should be enamelled, and stir them well over the fire until the butter is melted; pour in 1 wineglassful of port wine and 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey’s and Worcester Sauces, mix well, and add 4 table-spoonful of mushroom or other ketchup, and 1 salt- spoonful each of soy and essence of anchovies. Continue to stir over the fire until the Sauce is about to boil, and it is then ready for serving. (3) Mix together 1 table-spoonful of rich cream and an equal quantity of vinegar and any kind of ketchup, adding a small quantity of cayenne and salt and 1 teaspoonful of made mustard or Harvey’s Sauce. When warmed without boiling it is ready for use. Hanover Sauce.—Place the boiled liver of a chicken in a mortar and pound it, then mix with it the juice of half a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and pepper and salt to taste; stir the Sauce over the fire in a saucepan till on the point of boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer for a minute or two. Serve while hot. Holland Sauce.— Sec Dutch Sauce. Holstein Sauce.—Beat the yolks of three eggs in 14 wineglassfuls of either port or sherry, and sweeten well with sugar. Pour the mixture into a small saucepan and whisk it over a very moderate fire until of a stiff froth, but take it off the moment it shows signs of boiling or the eggs will curdle. Turn the Sauce into a tureen and serve. Indian Sauce (a l’Indienne).—(1) Brown in a saucepan a few slices of onion, loz. of raw lean ham, one sprig of thyme, and twelve whole peppers, with loz. of butter. Add 1 teaspoonful of powdered curry diluted in 1 pint of velvet Sauce (veloutd), and boil for ten minutes. Strain through a strainer into another saucepan. Pour in A breakfast- cupful of cream, the juice of half a lemon, and two egg yolks. Then serve. (2) Put A teacupful of chopped shallots into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of white vinegar that has been strained off a bottle of mild Indian pickles; boil them for two or three minutes, then pour in 1 pint of white Sauce and 1 teacupful of white broth. Stir the Sauce over a quick fire till reduced to a creamy thickness, then strain it through a broth-napkin into another stewpan; mix with it A teacupful of cream, and five or six of the Indian pickles cut into pieces, stir it over the fire, then serve. Italian Sauce (d l’ltalienne).—(1) Put a large lump of liutter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped mushrooms and shallots, and 1 pint of white wine; boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Mix with the above ingre- dients 1 breakfast-cupful of veloute Sauce, and A breakfast- cupful of stick ; boil them quickly over the fire till thick. Skim the Sauce, and keep it warm in a bain-marie till ready to serve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Sauces—continued. (2) Boil in A pint of beef and veal stock, mixed in equal quantities, two chopped mushrooms, and 1 teacupful of white wine; simmer slowly for a quarter-of-an-liour, then add to the above ingredients the strained juice of a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and two lumps of sugar. Boil the Sauce up again, then keep it hot in a bain-marie till wanted. (3) Fry in a saucepan with a little salad-oil, 1 teacupful of chopped onions and shallots, mixed in equal quantities ; pour in with them when fried 1 pint of white Sauce, A pint of broth, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. When boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for ten minutes, then skim off all the fat, stand the saucepan over the fire again, and stir with a woorlen spoon till the Sauce is of a thick creamy con- sistency. Add 1 table-spoonful of chopped mushrooms, I teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and one of sugar, a little salt, and 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir the Sauce over the fire for a few minutes, add the strained juice of half a lemon, and serve. (4) Put 14 teacupfuls of broth into a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of Chablis, and let them simmer till reduced to half their original quantity. Chop some mushrooms finely, and mix with them half their quantity of finely- chopped shallots; season with a little parsley, thyme, salt, and pepper, and mix them with the reduced liquor. Stir a little flour and butter in a frying-pan over the fire for three or four minutes, then mix them with the above ingredients, and stir them slowly over the fire for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time the Sauce is ready for serving. (5) Put lqt. of Spanish Sauce into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 teacupful each of veal stock and d’Uxelles Sauce, and A pint of reduced Chablis. Boil all together for five minutes, then skim the Sauce and keep it in a bain- marie till ready to serve. (6) Prepare some brown Italian Sauce. Trim some black truffles, and boil them for a few minutes in a little broth. Drain the truffles, mix them with the prepared Sauce, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Season the Sauce well, and keep it thin. It is then ready for serving. Jardiniere Sauce (d. la Jardiniere).—Cut three peeled carrots into slices A*n- thick, and with a small long and round vegetable-cutter cut each slice into as many pieces as possible. Pr epare some turnips in the same way, put them with the carrots into a saucepan with twenty peeled button-onions, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and fry over a moderate fire from ten to fifteen minutes; then pour in 1 A breakfast-cupfuls of broth, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire till the vege- tables are tender; then boil it up to reduce the moisture a little, and skim off all the fat. Put § pint of brown Sauce into another saucepan with H teacupfuls of broth, and boil it quickly till thick and creamy; then put in with it some small pieces of cauliflower, seven or eight heads of asparagus, 2 table-spoonfuls of green peas, 1 table-spoonful of French beans, and the prepared vege- tables, and let them boil gently for iifteen minutes. Season with a little salt and sugar, move it off the fire, put in 1 table-spoonful of butter, and stir it till dissolved. The Sauce is then ready for serving. A bunch of parsley and a bay-leaf will improve the flavour. Livernaise Sauce (4 la Livernaise).—Peel and wash four or five carrots and turnips, cut them into small balls with a vegetable-cutter, and scald them in boiling water. Drain the vegetables, put them in a stewpan with about 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar and a small quantity of clear stock or broth, and boil them gently until the liquor is reduced to a glaze. Care must be taken that the vege- tables do not break. Put the glazed vegetables into an- other stewpan with 1 pint of Spanish Sauce, toss them about gently over the fire until the Sauce is on the point of boiling, then serve it. Maintenon Sauce (a, la Maintenon).—Finely chop a slice of lean ham, and put it into a saucepan with a sprig of parsley, two mushrooms, and two shallots, all finely- chopped, 4 table-spoonful of butter, two lumps of sugar, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.