TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 257 Puddings—continued. mixture into a buttered basin or well floured cloth, place it in a saucepan of water over the fire, and boil for five hours; then turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Crystal Palace Pudding's.—Put 4 table-spoonful of corn- flour in a basin and mix it thoroughly with \ teacupful of new milk and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Add joz. of isinglass, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla. Turn the mixture into a lined saucepan, and boil for ten minutes, stirring the same way all the time. Move the pan to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. Continue stirring until the mixture is nearly cold. Rinse some small tin moulds with cold water, and place some crystallised cherries at the bottom and round the sides; pour in the mixture and fill up the moulds, which pack in ice and leave for two or three hours. Before serving, dip the moulds in hot water to loosen the contents, wipe them, and turn the Puddings on to a fancy dish. Cumberland Pudding.—(1) Peel, core, and chop sufficient apples to fill a breakfast-cup, also chop jib. of beef suet, and thoroughly wash jib. of currants. Mix the above ingredients together with 6oz. of flour, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, 1 pinch of salt, and three well-beaten eggs. Turn the mix- ture into a buttered Pudding-basin, tie a floured cloth over it (see Fig. 320), put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked turn the Pudding out on to a hot dish, pour a wine sauce over it, and serve. (2) Well wash 1 breakfast-cupful of rice, put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of Madeira, and boil for half-an-liour. Cut 2oz. of ratafia cakes in slices, add them Fig. 320. Mode of Tying to the rice, together with 1 wine- Cloth over Mould. glassful of brandy, a flavouring of nutmeg, and sufficient sugar to taste. When these are incorporated, work in the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Have ready a pie-dish lined with puff paste, pour the mixture in, set the dish in the oven, and bake for forty- five minutes. When done, take it out, and serve. Cup Puddings.—Put 3oz. of butter into a basin, warm and beat it to a cream, adding gradually 2oz. of sugar and 3oz. of flour. Work the whole into a paste by adding 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, pour it into buttered teacups, set them in a moderate oven, and bake for twenty minutes. Turn the Puddings out on to a dish, and serve. Cup Puddings as Baskets.—Put 3oz. of butter into a basin, warm it slightly, then beat it until creamy. Separate the yolks and whites of three eggs, beat the yolks well, pour them in with the butter, and mix in 3oz. each of flour and sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in gently with the other ingredients. Butter some cups, anil fill them with the mixture. Bake the Puddings for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave them until cold, then turn them out of their cups. Scoop out the middle of the Puddings, mask the outsides of them with a thick layer of red-currant jelly, roll them in white sugar, and put a small quantity of apricot jam in each. Sweeten 1 pint of cream with caster sugar, and mix the juice of a lemon with it, whisk it to a stiff froth, and put it on a fine hair sieve to drain. Pile the cream on the top of each Pudding, fix a strip of angelica across each to form a handle, put them on a fancy dish, and serve. Curate’s Puddings.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and heat it over the fire; then turn it into a basin, and when somewhat cooled stir in gradually 4oz. of flour, the grated peel of one lemon, and 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar. Puddings—continued. Beat separately the yolks of four and the whites of three eggs, then mix them in with the other ingredients. Beat the mixture well for a few minutes, then pour it into some buttered cups, each of which should only be half filled. Bake them for twenty minutes or half-an- liour. When cooked, turn them out of the cups on to a dish, and serve with a nicely-flavoured custard or sweet sauce poured over them. Daisy’s Pudding.—Cut in slices sufficient small sponge cakes to about three parts fill the mould to be used, put the slices into a dish, and soak them well in port wine. Cover the inside of the mould thickly with butter, and stick some blanched almonds, stoned raisins, or preserved cherries all over it. Put in the soaked slices of cakes, and pour in sufficient rich custard to fill the mould to the brim. Put a piece of buttered paper on the top, cover the mould with a cloth, tying it securely, put it into a sauce- pan of water over a clear fire, and boil for an hour. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve. Damkorf Pudding.—Soak 4oz. of grated breadcrumb in \ pint of boiling milk until cold, then stir in 4oz. more breadcrumbs, 4oz. of finely-minced suet, 3oz. each of crushed ratafias and thinly-sliced candied peel, \ salt- spoonful of salt, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Whisk five eggs together with 4oz. of moist sugar, then pour them into the basin with the other ingredients and mix thoroughly. Butter a quart basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve it until a wine sauce. Danish Puddings.—(1) Soak 1 breakfast-cupful of tapioca in 3 pints of water all night. Put it in a double boiler, and cook it for one hour. Stir frequently, and dissolve in it \ teacupful of caster sugar, 1 tumblerful of bright jelly, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix thoroughly. Rinse a mould out with cold water, turn the mixture into it, and put it away to set. When cold, turn the Pudding on to a dish, and serve with caster sugar and cream. (2) Prepare a thick batter with flour and milk, adding a little salt to taste, and beating it well with a wooden spoon. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, drop the batter in in small quantities at a time, and let them simmer for about five minutes; take them out with a skimmer as they rise to the top, drain off all the water, and place them on a dish. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, melt it, add a handful or so of breadcrumbs, cook them until quite crisp, put them over the small lumps of batter, and serve immediately. An egg or two and a little milk may be used in making the batter should it be required richer. Delaware Peach Pudding.—Beat o eggs well; then mix in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, lqt. of milk, 1 table- spoonful of slightly-warmed butter, and. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Continue beating the whole until quite smooth. Peel, halve, and stone twelve or fourteen Peaches, and lay them at the bottom of a pie-dish, squeeze over them a small quantity of either lime, lemon, or orange- juice, pour over the batter, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, dust over with caster sugar, and serve the Pudding with a wine sauce. Delaware Pudding.—Chop 4oz. of suet, and mix it with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sifted cornflour, 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered cinnamon, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, and one well-beaten egg. Pour over these ingredients lqt. of boiling milk; mix thoroughly, and turn the whole into a well-buttered mould. Bake the Pudding for an hour. When cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Delhi Pudding.—Blanch and pound ljoz. of sweet almonds. Blend 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; mix with it the pounded almonds and 2oz. of sugar. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire; when it boils, pour it on the mixture of arrowroot, milk, and almonds, stir well, return it to the saucepan, and stir till it boils. Pour it at once into a mould wetted For Mails respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. IX.