242 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Far details respecting Culinorv Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads* Potatoes — continued. (2) Peel the required number of Potatoes, boil them until half cooked, then cut them into slices £in. in thickness. Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of minced fat bacon into a stewpan with a peeled and chopped onion, and fry them over the fire until lightly browned. Mix 1 table spoonful of flour to a smooth paste with water, stir it into the onions and bacon, and season with salt, pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. When the sauce boils, put in the sliced Potatoes, strew over them 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped parsley, and stew them gently until tender, but not broken. If the sauce boils away before the Potatoes are quite done, pour a small quantity of milk over them. Stewed Potatoes with Herrings (German).—Wash some Potatoes, put them into a saucepan with their skins on, and boil till tender but not overdone, or they will break. Peel, cut them into moderately thick slices, and place them where they will keep warm. Put a chopped onion into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it until lightly browned; then dredge it with flour, put in a bay-leaf, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a little less than 1 pint of water, season with salt and pepper, and let the sauce simmer at the edge of the fire. Wash two Dutch herrings, cut them lengthwise down the back, and carefully lift out the bones ; cut the flesh into small pieces, and put them in the sauce. After the fish has boiled in the sauce for a few minutes, put in the Potatoes, and stir them gently round, taking care not to break the slices. Put ‘2oz. of butter and 1 teacupful of milk in the stew, and stir it over the fire until beginning to boil again. When cooked, turn the stew into a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Potatoes with Sardines (German).—Peel the required quantity of Potatoes, partially boil them, then cut them into slices. Put a lump of butter into a stew- pan and place it over the fire until melted, then lay in half of the sliced Potatoes. Put two finely-chopped onions into a smaller stewpan, with a lump of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of minced parsley, and cook them over a gentle fire until tender. Skin and bone five or six sardines, chop them, and stir them in with the onions. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then spread it over the Potatoes in the stewpan, cover with the remainder of the Potatoes, put the lid on the pan, and cook them slowly for ten minutes longer. When cooked, turn the Potatoes and sardines on to a hot dish, and serve hot. Stuffed Potatoes.—(1) Chop lib. of beef steak as fine as possible, mix with it J table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Select eight or ten large Potatoes, peel them as thinly as possible, wash them, and cut a small piece off the top of each. Scoop out the insides, leaving a wall about Jin. in thickness, then stuff them with the chopped meat. Roll the Potatoes and their tops in ■well-beaten egg, and then fix the tops in their original places again, pressing them on firmly. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then lay the Potatoes in carefully, cover the stewpan, move it to the edge of the fire, and stew them for an hour. Turn the Potatoes now and then, so that they may be evenly browned. When cooked, drain the Potatoes well, arrange them in an upright position, the cut side uppermost, on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve very hot. (2) Wash and boil four Potatoes in their skins until tender, peel, put them in a basin, and mash with a wooden spoon; then mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped fat salted pork, h table-spoonful each of chopped shallots, chopped onion, and chopped parsley. Work the mixture together with 2oz. of butter, and season it with salt and pepper. Pick half-a-dozen large Potatoes of an equal size, scrub them well, and split them into halves lengthwise. Scoop out a hollow in each half of Potato with an iron spoon, then fill them with the above mixture, making the top convex, which should be Potatoes—continued. smoothed over with the blade of a knife. Spread a thick layer of butter over the bottom of a baking-dish, put in the halves of Potatoes, the cut part upwards, and place them in a moderate oven. When about three-parts cooked, brash the tops of the Potatoes with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, return them to the oven, and finish baking them. When quite cooked, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve them while hot. (3) Peel twelve Potatoes, empty them with a Potato- scoop, blanch them in boiling water for two minutes, drain, and fill them with sausage forcemeat. Lay them in a buttered saute-]>an, place in the oven, and cook for twenty minutes. Surprise Potatoes.—(1) Bone a dozen small birds, and stuff them with sausage-meat. Select twelve large equal-sized Potatoes, wash them thoroughly, leaving their skins on, cut a piece off the top of each, and scoop out the insides. Put a bird in each Potato (see Fig. 303). Make a stiff paste with flour and white of egg, and use it to stick the tops on the Potatoes again. Lay them on a baking tin, and bake Fig. 303. Surprise Potato. in a brisk oven. In about three-quarters-of-an-hour, the Potatoes should be sufficiently baked. Arrange them on a hot dish that has been covered with a dish-paper or folded napkin, and serve. (2) Prepare and mash smoothly some cold Potatoes as for Potato Croquettes, form them into twelve balls the size of eggs, scoop out the centres, and fill in with a salpicon a la financiere. Close the opening with a little more Potato, dip them in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in very hot fat for three minutes. Take them out, drain, and serve them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin. Sweet or Spanish Potatoes.—The following in- structions for cooking this foreign vegetable (Batatas edulis) (see Fig. 285) have been supplied by a famous American chef: Peel and slice them very thin, and soak overnight or for several hours in cold water; sometimes a small piece of alum is dissolved in the water to harden the flesh of the tubers. Before they are fried, they should be carefully dried on a towel, and then plunged into plenty of boiling fat, a few slices at a time. When they float on the fat they are done, and should then be skimmed off with a perforated slice. They are served either hot or cold. POT-BROILING.—See Broiling. POT CHEESE.—See Cheese. POTEEN.—An Irish term for illicitly distilled whisky. Written also Potheen and Potteen. POT-HERBS.—This term is applied to any kind of plant any part of which can be boiled for food. . It is ' generally used by the cook to signify a selection of vegetables suitable for flavouring soup or broth.