330 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. r'&r details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. Rice Cream Soup ■with Fowl.—Put 3qts. of fowl broth into a saucepan over the fire, boil it, and add lOoz. of well-washed Rice; then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the Pice is done. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, and keep it warm. In the meantime, remove the upper bone from about fifteen pinions of young fowls, push the meat well into the cavity of the bone, forming the pinions as much as possible into the shape of a pear, blanch them, refresh them in cold water, put them into a saucepan with sufficient rich broth to cover them, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and boil slowly till they are done. Take them out, drain and trim them, put them into the saucepan with the Rice, together with the liquor they were cooked in, and cook slowly for another ten minutes. Skim well, add the yolks of three eggs and 3oz. of butter to thicken, remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir for a few minutes. Turn the soup into the tureen, and serve. Rice Croquettes (Savoury.)—(1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Rice into a double boiler with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of milk, and when it is hot add 1 table-spoon- ful of butter, one well-beaten egg, a little pepper and cayenne, 1 table-spoonful of parsley finely minced, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Take it out when warmed and let it cool. Make it into rolls, dip them into breadcrumbs, egg and breadcrumb again, and fry in hot fat until done and a light brown colour. (2) Sweet.—Put \ pint of well-washed Rice into a sauce- pan with 1 pint of water, or milk and water in equal proportions, and steam for half-an-hour or so until the Rice is quite soft. While it is still hot, add 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of butter, the yolk of an egg well beaten, and a small quantity of hot milk, if required to moisten it. Let it get cool; then make it into oval shapes, and put them into crumbs, egg, and then crumbs again, and fry for a few minutes in boiling fat until done and light brown. After making the mixture into oval shapes, some cooks push the thumb into the centre of each, and in the cavity put two boiled raisins or candied cherries, or a little jelly or marmalade, then press the Rice over the hole again, and then dip in crumbs, egg, and then crumbs again, and fry. (3) Put lib. of blanched Rice into a saucepan, and pom- in sufficient milk so that when the Rice is boiled it will be moist but stiff; stir in while hot 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of orange sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of ten eggs. Stir over the fire until the mixture is firm, then add 6oz. of finely-chopped candied orange peel and a small quantity of well-whipped cream. Turn the preparation out on to a board, keep it about Ain. in thickness, and let it cool. Cut it up into shapes, dip them in egg and breadcrumbs, colour them well in boil- ing fat, drain them, roll them in caster sugar slightly flavoured with orange juice, pile them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of apricot sauce. (4) Boil about 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice in just as much milk as it will absorb ; when cooked, mix in with it 2oz. of butter, the yolks of four eggs, 1 table-spoonful each of blanched and chopped sweet almonds and pis- tachio-nuts, 1 table-spoonful of chopped citron-peel, and sugar to taste. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cold; then shape into croquettes, dip them in beaten egg, and breadcrumb them. Put a rather large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire; when it boils, put in the croquettes and fry them. When nicely and equally browned, drain them on a sheet of paper. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish- paper over a hot dish, put the croquettes on it, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. (5) Wash 41b. of Rice well, put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and boil it till the moisture is .absorbed. Beat the yolks of five eggs with Jib. of loaf sugar. Move the Rice to the side of the fire, put in Jib. of butter, and stir in the beaten eggs and sugar. Flavour it with orange-flower water, and stir it by the side of the fire until the eggs have thickened. Turn the mixture on to Rice—continued. a plate, and leave it until cool. Divide it into small portions, mould these into egg-shaped balls, dip them in beaten yolk of- egg, and then roll them well in grated stale breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of lard or butter in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the croquettes, and fry them a golden brown. When they are cooked, take them out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of paper to drain. Make lib. of either strawberry or raspberry jam hot, and put it in a circle round a hot dish; put the croquettes in the centre of the dish, dust caster sugar over them, and serve. Rice Croquettes a l’ltalienne. —Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Rice into a saucepan, and boil it with milk so that when it is done if will be soft and pasty. In the meantime chop fine half of a cold cooked fat liver, season it, put it into a basin, and mix in a third of its bulk of truffles also cut fine. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of bechamel sauce into a saucepan, add the trimmings of the truffles, reduce the liquor, and add 1 teacupful of thick gravy or melted glaze; when the mixture is of a good consistency, strain it into the basin with the fat liver. Pack the basin in ice, and when the mixture is quite cold take a little up at a time in a small spoon, roll it into a pear shape, and cover it with the Rice, taking care that it is firm. When Fig. 384. Rice Croquettes A i.Ttalienne. they are all done, dip them into egg and breadcrumbs, fry them carefully in boiling fat, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 384), and serve. Rice Croquettes and Cheese.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold boiled Rice into a saucepan with a little white sauce, warm it, and mix in a well-beaten egg, salt and pepper to taste, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of grated cheese. Let the mixture cool, form it into croquettes, dip them first in the breadcrumbs, then egg, and lastly breadcrumbs again, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them hi own. Drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rice Crusts.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled Rice into a saucepan with sufficient milk to make a thin mixture, and stir gently at the side of the fire until the mixture is quite soft; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of sugar, one egg slightly beaten, salt to taste, and enough flour to make the mixture bind. Spread it out on to a baking-sheet, keeping it about Jin. thick, put it into a quick oven and bake it. Take it out when done and serve with syrup, either in a sauceboat or poured over. Rice Custard.—(1) Take 1 teacupful of boiled Rice, sprinkle into it as much salt as would lie on a sixpence, stir it then into lqt. of milk; beat up three eggs and stir them in; rub loz. of butter into Jib. of moist sugar, and stir it in; then pour the mixture into a buttered pudding-dish, and hake it for half-an-hour in a hot oven. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into a saucepan with 5oz. of sugar, boil, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of well- washed Rice. Remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the Rice is soft; then add the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, and boil slowly for a few minutes. Turn the mixture into a mould or basin, let it get cold, turn it out, and serve. Rice Cutlets.—Put 4oz. each of cold boiled Rice, finely- chopped boiled beef-suet, and breadcrumbs, into a basin, mix them well, and add a little minced parboiled onion, cayenne, and salt, and sufficient cream or broth to make The mixture into a paste. Put it into a dish, cut it up