217 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continued. this sauce through a fine sieve on to a dish, arrange the chops in it, and serve. Broiled Pork Cutlets.—(1) Cut off the required quantity of cutlets from a loin of Pork, trim off the superfluous fat, sprinkle well with pepper, and put them on a hot gridiron or grill placed over a clear fire, and broil for from fifteen to twenty minutes, turning them frequently so as to cook both sides. Put them on a dish, pour over a little brown gravy or piquant sauce, and serve very hot. (2) Cut off half-a-dozen cutlets from a neck of Pork, trim off the skin and superfluous fat, flatten them with a cutlet-bat, dredge over salt and pepper to taste, and put them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and broil on both sides for fourteen or fifteen minutes. Take them off when done, and put them on a dish in the oven to keep hot. In the meantime prepare the following sauce: Put a finely-chopped onion into a saucepan with a dozen or so blanched cloves of garlic, pour in a little oil, and cook them until they are of a light brown, then add a little broth and reduce it to a glaze. Now pour in a little gravy, boil up once more, and add a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and mint, a very little cayenne, the pulp of a lemon without the pips, and two bitter oranges peeled and cut into quarters. Boil for a few minutes longer, and add l table spoonful of mustard, mixed with a little Madeira. Pour this sauce over the cutlets, and serve very hot. (3) Cut some cutlets about Ain. thick from a loin of small Pork and trim them. Fry the trimmings with some thin slices of ham and bacon and a few sliced onions; when brown, put them in a saucepan and boil for two hours in just enough water to cover them. Strain, and when cold skim off all the fat, add a little gelatine and browning, and boil it. Broil the cutlets, and when done mask them with the glaze, dish them in a circular form, fill the centre with fried sliced tomatoes, and serve. Broiled Pork Cutlets served with Gherkins.—Trim of!' all the fat from a neck of Pork and cut it up into cutlets, taking six from each side and cutting them in a slanting direction; beat them slightly with a cutlet-bat, trim them into shape, sprinkle over with salt and pepper to taste, dip them into warmed butter, and cover with breadcrumbs. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire and broil for twelve or fifteen minutes, turning them frequently. Pour If tumblerful of vinegar into a saucepan on the fire and re- duce to one-third its original quantity ; then add A tumblerful of gravy, boil it, thicken it with a little cooked roux, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for a few minutes. Skim off the fat, strain the sauce into a basin, and add a small quantity of pepper and a few table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped gherkins. Put the cutlets in a circle on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve very hot. Broiled Slices of Cold Pork.—Cut the Pork into rather thick slices, season them on both sides with a sprinkling of salt, pepper, and finely-powdered dried sage, and broil nicely over a clear fire on a hot gridiron. Cheshire Pork Pie.—Remove the skin and fat from a loin of Pork so as to have 21b. of the lean, cut this up into small thin pieces, and sprinkle them over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Have ready a little puff paste, line a pie-disli with it, then put in a layer of the pieces of Pork, then a layer of pared and cored pippins; sprinkle over 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and put a layer of Pork on the top of all. Pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white wine, put a few small lumps of butter on the top of the Pork, cover the dish with a fiat of the paste, make a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape, brush the paste over with egg, and put the pie in a moderate oven to bake. Let it remain for an-hour-and-a-half, take it out, and serve. Cold Pork en Blanquette.—Cut off some small slices from any part of roasted Pork when cold, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper and a little finely-powdered mace. Put 12oz- of butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted thicken it with a little flour and add a dozen button Fork—continued. mushrooms cut into pieces. Toss the pan over the lire so that they will cook without taking colour, then pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry and 1 breakfast-cupful of beef stock. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and boil gently until the liquor is reduced to a little less than half its original bulk. Add the slices of Pork, let them get thoroughly warmed through, then mix in a liaison of three eggs mixed with a little lemon-juice. Turn the whole out on to a dish when ready, and serve very hot. Cold Pork Broiled a la Tartare.—Cut into small pieces any part of a roasted leg or shoulder of Pork, clip each piece into clarified butter, then in breadcrumbs mixed with a small quantity of sweet herbs and a shallot finely-chopped, and sprinkle well with salt and pepper. Every piece of meat must have as much of the seasoned breadcrumbs attached to it as possible. Put the pieces of meat on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them for about ten minutes, when they should be done and of a light brown. Put them on a dish, pour over a little Tartar sauce, and serve very hot. Collared Pork.—Cut the crusts from a stale sixpenny loaf, and soak them in water; grate and sift the crumb, and when the crust is soft enough squeeze the water from it, mash it up, and mix it with the sifted crumb. Add to this 1 table-spoonful of sweet basil dried and powdered, 2 table spoonfuls of sweet marjoram dried and powdered, a bunch of pot herbs chopped very fine, two nutmegs grated, Aoz. of cloves powdered, Joz. of mace powdered, 1 table- spoonful of black pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of salt. Mix all these thoroughly together and then work them to a paste with two beaten eggs. Take a small leg of fresh Pork, remove the bone, rub the meat with salt where the bone came out, and stuff the vacant place with the prepared stuffing. Bind the leg into shape with tape, fastening it tightly round it, lay it in a baking tin with a very little water, and bake it in a hot oven for two-hours-and- a-half. If served hot, add an egg and a little white wine to the gravy. Curried Pork.—(1) Cut off the skin and nearly all the fat from 2Alb. of Pork, and chop it up into small thin slices. Put them into a saucepan with a little butter, fry them for a few minutes, then add four onions cut up into small pieces and fried, 1 table-spoonful each of curry- paste and powder, and sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste. When these are mixed, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water or stock, put the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils remove the pan to the side and let it cook gently for from three-quarters of-an-hour to an hour. Take out the pieces of meat, put them on a dish, reduce Fig. 277. Curried pork. the liquor to half its original quantity, pour it over the meat, and serve with a border of well-boiled rice as a garnish (see Fig. 277). If preferred the rice may be served separately. (2) Mix in a basin 1 table-spoonful each of bruised and ground garlic and ground ginger, 2 teaspoonfuls of ground chillies, I teaspoonful of roasted and ground coriander- seeds, and £ teaspoonful of ground roasted cumin-seeds. Pour over 1 teacupful of vinegar, put in 21b. of fat Pork cut up into squares, sprinkle over 1 saltspoonful of salt, cover the meat with the mixture, and let it steep for a day or so. Put 6oz. of mustard-oil, fat, or lard into a frying-pan, make it hot, add the curry mixture and meat, put in a few peppercorns and bay-leaves, and cook gently for about two hours, by which time the meat should be