THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 86 0 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—co ntinued. lettuces, cress, and some young radishes into small pieces. Four some Salad-dressing into a Salad-bowl, lay the above ingredients lightly on it, arrange tastefully on the top some slices of hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, and cucumber, and serve at once. Swedish Salad.—Mix together an equal quantity of cold roast beef, boiled potatoes, russet apples, and pickled herring cut in small squares. Steep four anchovies in water, drain, cut them into little pieces, and mix them with the above ingredients ; add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped gherkins, well-drained capers, and chopped tarragon, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped chervil, one finely- chopped hard-boiled egg, and twenty turned olives. Pour some oil and vinegar over the Salad, season it with salt and pepper, and serve it in a Salad-bowl with some freshly- opened oysters on the top. Winter Salad.—(1) Wash a pickled herring, and without cook- ing it pick the meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces. Chop 1 breakfast-cupful of salsify, and 1 breakfast-cupful of red pickled cabbage into small pieces, mix them together in a Salad-bowl, and add a bunch of chopped watercress. Mix some oil and vinegar together, season with a little pepper and salt, pour it over the Salad, and serve. (2) Put a small red cabbage into boiling water and leave it for ten minutes; then take it out, drain, and let it cool. Cut the cabbage into thin shreds, sprinkle some salt over it, and let it pickle for three hours. Strain the moisture off the cabbage, pour l teacupful of vinegar over it, and let it marinade for two hours. Cut lib. of cold boiled potatoes into small squares, and serve an equal quan- tity of blanched and drained celery in the same way. Drain the cabbage, put it into a Salad-bowl with the potatoes, celery, 1 table-spoonful of chopped tarragon, 3 table-spoonfuls of oil, and a little pepper, add more season- ing to the Salad if required, and serve. (3) Skin some ripe tomatoes, cut them into slices, lay them on a dish, strew over plenty of salt, a moderate quantity of powdered ginger and cayenne pepper, poui- some vinegar over, and leave them for an hour or two. Peel and slice a cold cooked beetroot, wash and cut a celery root into nice pieces, and finely chop some of the young green leaves. When ready, put the tomatoes on a deep dish, and over those place a layer of sliced beetroot; arrange a border of the celery root all round the dish, and strew the chopped leaves over it. Boil two eggs hard, and when cold, peel them; separate the yolks and the whites, put the former in a basin with a small quantity of dry mustard, and beat them until smooth. Mix with them alternately, and in moderate quantities, some tarragon and chilli vinegar, making the dressing of the consistency of thick cream, then stir in a sufficient quantity of Salad-oil. Season the dressing to taste with salt, and pour it over the Salad. Garnish round the edge of the dish with a border of washed mustard and cress ; chop the whites of the eggs very fine, sprinkle them over the top of the Salad, and serve. (4) Procure some small red potatoes and boil them in their skins; when tender, peel and slice them. Put the potatoes in a Salad-bowl with some sliced pickled beet- root, apples, and celery ; the three latter ingredients should be used in equal proportions. Prepare a sufficient quan- tity of dressing for the Salad with sour cream, oil, and a small quantity of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour the dressing over the contents of the Salad-bowl, mix all lightly together, being careful not to break the potatoes, and serve. Besides the dressings specially described in connection with any of the foregoing receipts, the following are con- sidered worthy of special attention, and suitable for almost any kind of Salad. See also Mayonnaise. Salad Cream.—Rub a lump of sugar over the yellow rind of a lemon, then dissolve it in £ teacupful of white vinegar. Mix the sugar and vinegar with sufficient sour cream to make the requisite quantity of Salad-dressing, stir them well together, and season to taste with salt and pepper, either white or cayenne. The dressing is then ready for the Salad. Salads—continued. Salad Dressing.—(1) Put the cold yolks of two hard- boiled eggs into a basin, mash them until quite smooth, add 1 teaspoonful each of salt and made mustard, 1 saltspoonful of sugar, and half that quantity of pepper; mix well, add gradually 1 table-spoonful of cream, and, when incorporated, add 1 table-spoonful each of Salad-oil and vinegar, and 1 dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. When well mixed it is ready for use. (2) Put the yolks of two raw eggs into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and whisk them well; then add, drop by drop, 1 pint of the best Salad-oil. When the oil is well mixed with the eggs, stir in 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 1 table- spoonful of chilli vinegar, and 3 table-spoonfuls of plain vinegar. Beat until all these ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, then add a small quantity each of sugar and cayenne pepper. Turn the mixture into a bottle, and keep it tightly corked until wanted. (3) Remove the skin and bones of two sardines, put them in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and pound to a smooth paste. Mix with the eggs and fish 1 teaspoonful each of caster sugar and dry mustard, 4 teacupful each of Salad-oil and cream, and 1 table-spoon- ful of tarragon vinegar. Season to taste with salt and cayenne or white pepper, and serve the dressing. The juice of a lemon is sometimes added if the dressing is preferred more acid. SALAD-OIL.—This is the very best, newest, and purest olive oil that can be obtained. It should be of a pale golden colour, almost odourless, and nearly tasteless, and should pour freely from the bottle. Let it be remembered that there are Salad-oils and Salad-oils in the market, and that the success of the Salad depends largely upon the quality of the oil. One word to the wise should suffice. SALAMANDER (Ft. Salamandre).—These are made with or without stands, and are so exceedingly use- ful to cooks who study appearances that it is advisable to have one in every kitchen. It consists of a thick plate of iron with a long handle (see Fig. 431), perforated or not for the pivot of a swivel-stand. When using the Sala- mander the iron plate is thrust into a hot fire until it is red hot; then it is taken out and put on the stand, if you have one, and the dish to be browned is put in a convenient position, so that the iron plate can be made to pass over any part, and brown it as required. When no stand is used the hand must be protected by cloths from the heat of the handle, and the manipulation is much more simple. SALERATUS.—See Ammonia. SALICYLIC ACID.—“ A white solid which forms acicular crystals,” is Cooley’s description of this sub- stance ; “ it melts at from 155deg. to 156deg. Cent.; it dissolves in about 1,800 parts of cold water, but is more soluble in boiling water as well as in alcohol and ether.” The use of Salicylic Acid as a preservative of food has long been an unsettled question. Its properties and effects are so powerful that its employment is regarded with suspicion, although no case of harm resulting from its use has been reported. Sanitary officers regard it more