365 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. garnish with parsley (see Fig. 436), pour some of the Dutcli sauce over them, and serve. (2) Skin and hone 21b. of Salmon, cut the flesh into small equal-sized pieces, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs. Put a piece of lard in a frying-pan, Fig. 436. Fillets of Salmon A la Pakisienne. and when boiling put the fillets in, and fry them till lightly coloured. When cooked put the fillets on a hot dish, cover with Indian sauce, sprinkle over some finely- chopped green gherkins, and serve. Fillets of Salmon with Potatoes.—Cut and trim some thin slices of Salmon and put them in a buttered saute- pan ; dust some pepper and salt over them, put a little butter on the top, and cover with a round of buttered paper. Peel some potatoes, cut them with a fin. vege- table scoop, and blanch them in boiling water. Place some clarified butter in a saute-pan, put in the potatoes, toss them over the fire, but do not brown them. Prepare some German sauce, and thicken half of it with lobster butter. Fix a croustade on a dish; fry the fillets of Salmon, arrange them in a circle round the croustade, put the potatoes into the sauce thickened with the lobster butter, and turn them into the croustade; coat the fillets with some of the plain sauce, and serve with the rest in a sauceboat. Fillets of Salmon with. Ravigote Sauce.—Cut some fillets of Salmon into small equal sized pieces, put them in a saute-pan with the juice of half a lemon, a little chopped parsley, clarified butter, and pepper and salt. Fry them over a slow fire, turning when done on one side and cook the other. Drain the fillets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some ravigote sauce in the centre, and serve. Fricasseed Salmon.—Fry in butter a thin slice of fat bacon and two sliced onions; when lightly browned, put the onions and bacon in a stewpan. Fry the slices of Salmon in the fat, then drain and put them in the stew- pan ; dust over some pepper and salt, pour in 4 pint of wine and 1 teacupful of water, and put the lid on the pan. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for half-an-hour. Take the pieces of Salmon carefully out, and put them on a hot dish; thicken the gravy with a little flour, pour it over the Salmon, and serve. Fried Salmon.—Cut some thin slices of Salmon, dust them over with salt, and leave them for a quarter-of-an-hour. Dredge flour over the slices of Salmon, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, and fry in boiling salad-oil. When cooked, put the slices of Salmon, well drained, on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fried Salmon Cutlets.—(1) Take some cold boiled Salmon, pick it free from all bone and skin, pound it in a mortar, and to every 6oz. of Salmon allow 2oz. of finely-mashed potatoes; add to the potatoes salt, pepper, mace, and cayenne to taste. When the seasoning is well mixed in add the pounded fish, and mix all thoroughly. Flatten the mixture out and shape it into small cutlets. Brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle them with fine bread- crumbs, and fry a light brown. Serve anchovy sauce with them. (2) Take Alb. of cold boiled Salmon, remove the bones and skin, and pound it in a mortar, adding salt, pepper, mace, and cayenne to taste. When thoroughly well pounded, and the seasoning distributed through it, mix it Salmon.—continued. to a paste with a beaten egg. Shape it into cutlets, sprinkle them with fine breadcrumbs, and fry in butter till a light brown. Serve with anchovy sauce. Grilled Salmon Cutlets.—Mask three or four slices of Salmon with a little warmed butter, and dust a little salt and pepper over them. Broil over a clear fire, turning them occasionally till done, and basting with a little butter. Prepare a tomato or brown-butter sauce. Put the cutlets when cooked ou a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Hedgeree of Salmon.—Boil Alb. of rice till soft and dry. Cut some cold Salmon into slices; put a piece of butter in a stewpan, and when melted put in the Salmon, rice, and two finely-minced hard-boiled eggs, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Stir the mixture lightly over the fire till very hot, then turn it into a warm dish, and serve. Mayonnaise of Salmon.—(1) Cut some cold boiled Salmon into small neat pieces of a uniform size and shape; pre- pare a mixture of two parts salad-oil and one part tar- ragon vinegar, season it to taste with salt and pepper, beat it up well, and dip the pieces of Salmon in it. Wash two or three freshly-gathered cabbage lettuces, trimming oil' the discoloured leaves, drain the water from the re- mainder, and cut them into fine shreds. Place the lettuces on a dish, and put the pieces of Salmon on the top of them, arranging them in a circle, each one overlapping the other. Wash the hearts only of some young lettuces, and cut them into quarters; also wash some garden cress and shake it well to free it as much as possible from water. Arrange some of the lettuce hearts and cress in alternate circles round the Salmon, and put some in the centre of the circle of Salmon. Put right in the centre of all a large slice of beetroot, on which stand half a hard- boiled egg, from which the yolk has been scooped out and the vacancy filled with capers. Put on each piece of Salmon a small round of beetroot with a caper on it. Garnish last of all with a border of halves of hard-boiled eggs and slices of beetroot. Serve the salad with a sauce- boatful of mayonnaise sauce. (2) Free about lib. of cold boiled Salmon from skin and bone, and divide the flesh into flakes. Wash and chop some spring onions, tarragon, and chervil. Put the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs in a mortar with 1 teaspoonful of mustard and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and pound them until smooth. Next mix in the beaten yolks of two raw eggs, 2A teacupfuls of salad-oil, 1 teacupful of common vinegar, and 4 teacupful of tarragon vinegar. Put half of the chopped mixture in a salad-bowl, then put in the fish, and cover with the remainder of the salad. Pour the sauce over all. Ornament the top with thin slices of beetroot and cucumber, and serve. (3) Thoroughly wash a lettuce, drain, and break it into little pieces, and put them on a dish. Place a slice of cooked Salmon in the centre, garnish round with alternate slices of cucumber, beetroot, and tomato, pour 1 teacupful of mayonnaise sauce over the Salmon, and serve. (4) Boil about 61b. of the middle cut of Salmon in some highly-seasoned fish stock. When the fish is cooked, move the fish-kettle off the fire, and leave it to cool in the stock. Drain the Salmon, put it on a dish, garnish with beetroot and watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. Mayonnaise of Salmon witli Aspic Jelly.—Remove the bones from 21b. of Salmon cut in slices, put them in a fish-kettle, cover with boiling fish broth, add a little salt, boil for three or four minutes, then move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and simmer for ten minutes. Take the fish out when cooked, and leave it till cold. Turn a border of aspic jelly on to a dish, and fill the centre with alternate layers of mayonnaise and the slices of Salmon pulled to flakes, finishing with the mayonnaise, and serve. Pickled. Salmon. -(1) Boil a Salmon, and when cooked take it carefully out of the liquor and leave it till cold, reserving some of the cooking-stock. Remove the bones from the Salmon, and put it in a deep dish. Mix with the reserved liquor an equal quantity of vinegar, four