195 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fine-apples—continued. quite soft. Pour it quite hot into a jelly-bag, and let the syrup drain through (without squeezing it) into an earthenware basin, which should be placed under the jelly- bag to catch it. Let the Pine-apple remain in the bag till all the syrup has drained from it. To every breakfast- cupful of syrup add Jib. of white sugar, boil it slowly and steadily, skimming well all the time. When it has boiled for a-quarter-of-an-hour take a little of it up, and put it into a saucer to cool; if it stiffens, the jelly is done ; if it does not, continue the boiling a few minutes longer and try it again. Let it cool till it is lukewarm, then pour it into glasses. When quite cold and set, cover the glasses with pieces of white paper wet with brandy. Dip some more pieces of white paper into beaten (but not to a froth) white of egg, and fasten over the tops of the glasses to keep them air-tight. They ought to be kept in a dry, dark cool place until wanted. (2) Peel a Pine apple, cut it into fine pieces, put them in lqt. of boiling water, and let them simmer for twenty minutes. Soak ‘2oz. of gelatine in \ pint of cold water for two horn's. Put the gelatine, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar, and the white and shell of one egg in with the boiling Pine- apple. Boil all up together, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the contents hot for twenty minutes, but do not boil them again. Strain the mixture through a jelly-bag into a Pineapple-shaped mould, and Fig. 250. Pine-apple Jelly. leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn the jellies on to a fancy dish, and garnish the top with angelica cut to represent a Pine apple crown, and place crystallised fruits round (see Fig. 250). Pine-apple Julep.—Mix in a large glass 1 wineglassful of Pine-apple cordial and a little clove cordial, fill up the glass with ice, arrange on the top a little mint and a few thin slices of water-melon and Pine apple, sprinkle over with sugar, and serve. Pine-apple Marmalade.—Peel some small Pine apples, remove the eyes and discoloured parts, and cut them into small pieces; weigh them, and measure out fib. of crushed loaf sugar for every pound of fruit. Place the pieces of Pine- apple in an earthenware jar, stand it in a saucepan of water, and boil till they are clear. Put the sugar in a preserving-pan with 1 teacupful of water for each 21b. of sugar, boil it, put the fruit in, and boil them together for half an-hour. Move the pan off the fire, leave the marmalade till cool, then put it into jars. Place a round of white paper, soaked in brandy, on each, then cover them with stout paper, and tie tightly down. Pine-apple Meringue.—Peel a moderate-sized Pine-apple, cut it into slices, then into pieces about lin. in length and Jin. thick; put them in a preserving-pan with Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and \ pint of water, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a rather thick syrup. Pour 1J pints of Fine-apples—continued. milk in a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils put in the peel and trimmings of the Pine-apple, cover, and steep them for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of ten eggs, strain the milk, and stir it gradually in with them. Pour the milk and eggs back into the saucepan, and stir them over a slow fire till thick, but without letting them boil. Pass the cream through a silk sieve into a basin and mix the Pine-apple and syrup with it. When cold, put the cream in a freezing-pot and work it over ice till frozen. Turn the frozen cream into a plain oval-shaped mould, filling it to the top, then close it tightly, and pack in pounded ice and salt. Boil 4oz. of sugar to the 6th deg., whip the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, then mix the sugar with them and leave till cold. Dip the mould con- taining the Pine apple cream in warm water, wipe it, and turn its contents quickly out on to a dish that has been standing on ice. Pour the meringue over it, place it in a hot oven, just to set and slightly brown the meringue, then take it out, and serve at once. Pine-apple Nip.—Equal parts of Pine apple cordial and clove cordial to half fill a wineglass, and fill up with rum. Pine-apple Omelet.—Have ready 1 table-spoonful of freshly grated Pine apple or preserved Pine apple. Mix together three eggs, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, and 1 table-spoon- ful of sugar; place the omelet mixture into a hot buttered pan, and cook it in a little butter until it is firm enough to fold. Put in the Pine-apple, fold the omelet together, turn it out on to a hot dish, dust with caster sugar, and serve at once. Pine-apple Preserves.—Remove the top and bottom of some Pine apples, pare off the rough outside, weigh them and cut them into slices. Lay them in a preserving-pan with >2 pint of water to each 21b. of fruit, boil until tender and clear, and take them out of the water with a slice. Put into the water as many pounds of crushed white sugar as there were pounds of fruit, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then put in the pieces of Pine apple and boil them gently until quite transparent, keeping the cover on the pan. Turn the syrup and slices of Pine apple into jars, and when cool tie them over and keep them in a dry store-cupboard till wanted for use. Pine-apple Pudding (American).—Prepare a crust with Jib. of suet (finely chopped) or beef marrow, ill), of flour, and sufficient water for mixing, using a knife and not the hands in so doing. With this line a greased basin, then put in half a grated Pine apple and a liqueur-glassful of curajoa, which should about half fill the basin, cover with a thin layer of the paste, pour over a sweetened custard made with 1 teacupful of milk and two eggs, and flavoured with a little noyau; cover with more paste, and steam for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Pine-apple Pudding a la Richelieu.—Boil in a saucepan 2 gills of milk, adding 2oz. of fresh butter, and let it melt. Have ilb. of Hour and the spatula ready, drop the flour in, and stir immediately with the spatula as briskly as possible for two minutes. Remove from the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, and stir again vigorously for two minutes; drop in 3oz. of powdered sugar, continue stirring for one minute, and pour in 1 gill of cold milk, mixing well. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of the three eggs, and add them gradually to the preparation, mixing slowly for two minutes. Butter and sugar a mould holding 3 pints, put a layer of the preparation Jin. thick at the bottom, cover with 2oz. of fine slices of stewed Pine apple, then another layer of the preparation, again the same quantity of Pine- apple, and repeat twice more. Place the mould in a tin pan, fill it to half the height of the mould with warm water, and set it in the oven to steam for one hour. Remove, turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of kirschenwasser sauce. Pine-apple Pulp for Ices.—Peel a Pine-apple, cut it into small pieces, pound them, and pass through a coarse sieve. Mix in Jib. of caster sugar for each pound of fruit, place the mixture into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them, and tie over with stout paper. Stand the bottles in a large sauce- pan or fish-kettle, with boiling water to half their height, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensil Sauces <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. o 2