TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 358 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—continued. eighteen whole cooked mussels, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, and the same quantity of chopped parsley. Mix all well together, put the Salad into a bowl, decorating it with six small white lettuce leaves, and six lillets of anchovies, and serve. Jardiniere Salad.—Cut into fine strips some beetroot, potatoes, carrots, and turnips, mix with them some haricot beans, green peas, and lentils, put them all together in a saucepan with a lump of butter, cover with water, and boil them till cooked, then drain off the water and leave them till cold. Make a dressing with some oil, mayonnaise sauce, 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, and a little cayenne pepper and salt. When well mixed pour the dressing into a Salad-dish, mix the pre- pared vegetables lightly in (see Fig. 428), and serve. Kitchener’s Cooked Salad.—Boil a variety of vegetables, whatever are in season, such as cauliflower, cabbage, sea kale, peas, beans, and artichoke-bottoms. Drain them well, and when cold arrange them tastefully on a glass dish. Prepare a dressing with some aromatic herb vinegar and oil, and with 1 table-spoonful of either capers, chopped gherkins, or pickled nasturtium-flower buds thrown in. Pour the mixture over the Salad, and serve. Macedoine Salad.—Have a medium-sized carrot and turnip ; peel and wash them well, and cut them with a vegetable- scoop. Put them into separate saucepans of boiling salted water and cook the carrot fifteen minutes and the turnip ten. Drain, let them thoroughly cool, and place them in a Salad-howl with 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked peas, the same quantity of French beans cut into small pieces, 1 pinch of salt, \ pinch of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and I J table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Mix all thoroughly together and turn them into a Salad-bowl. Decorate the howl with cooked cauliflower or a few asparagus-tops or Brussels sprouts, and send to table at once. Nantese Salad.—Peel three small Spanish onions, scoop a little out of the centre of each, and put in the hollow a lump of butter; season with pepper and salt, and bake the onions till brown. When cooked leave them till cold, then cut them into quarters and put them in a Salad- bowl. Scrape the skin off six sardines, then split them down the backs and carefully remove the bones; lay the fillets of fish on the onions. Slice four hard-boiled eggs, place them on the fish, and strew over them 1 table-spoon- ful each of finely-chopped tarragon leaves, parsley, and chervil. Mix 1 teaspoonful of curry-powder with \ pint of mayonnaise and 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. When well mixed pour the dressing over the Salad, and serve. Plain Salad.—Any vegetables, such as watercress, lettuces, boiled beets, endives, shallots, chives, and radishes, can he used for this, and must be thoroughly washed, dried, cut up small, and arranged in a Salad-bowl according to taste. To prepare the dressing, mix in a basin 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, | teaspoonful of made mustard, 2 salt- spoonfuls of salt, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Add 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, pour this over the Salad, then 1 table-spoonful or so of Salad-oil, and lastly 1 table- spoonful of rich cream. Mix carefully in the bowl, and serve. Polish Salad.—Moisten lqt. of finely-chopped cooked game or poultry flesh with some French Salad-dressing, and let it macerate for two or three hours in a cold place. Rub the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs to a powder, and chop the whites very fine. Wash and dry two small heads Salads—continued. of lettuce, cut them into shreds, put them on a dish, pile the meat in the centre, sprinkle the egg all over, and serve. Red Salad.—Procure some small red potatoes, and wash and boil them in their skins ; when cooked, skin and cut them into slices a little less than Jin. thick. Thinly-shred an equal quantity of the tender part of a red cabbage and beetroot. Prepare a dressing of oil and vinegar, the former predominating, and season with salt and pepper. Put the above ingredients in a Salad-bowl, pour the dressing over them, mix well, and serve. Russian Salad.—(1) Cut into thin slices the best part of some cold remains of salmon, chicken, and partridges, arrange them on a Salad-dish, and mix with them in moderate quantities some cooked asparagus-heads, carrots, turnips and cauliflower, all cut into small pieces, a few stoned olives, three or four anchovies, boned and cut into small pieces, a few capers, shrimps, and a small quantity of caviare. Prepare a sufficient quantity of dressing with oil, vinegar, mustard, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; 1 table-spoonful of minced shallots should also be added. Pour the mixture over the above ingredients, and stand the Salad on ice until ready to serve. Care should be taken in making the Salad that all the ingredients taste, but that none predominate. (2) Cut into small squares an equal quantity of French beans, pickled cucumbers, haricot beans, celery, asparagus, peas, cauliflower, green peas, cold boiled beetroot, cold boiled carrots, and cold chicken or tongue; mix the above ingredients in a Salad-bowl with some mayonnaise sauce, sprinkle over some minced tarragon, burnet, and chervil, arrange some fillets of anchovies, cooked truffles, and olives on top, and serve. (3) Cut up separately into small dice loz. each of cooked roast beef, cooked ham, cooked ox-tongue, cooked chicken, the same of lean leg of cooked mutton, and two truffles. Put them all into a Salad-bowl, separating each kind by six boned anchovies; pour 1 table-spoonful of Tartar sauce in the centre, covering the sauce with two chopped leaves of lettuce, and serve; it should be mixed together just before serving. Russian Salad with Aspic Jelly.—(1) Put the meat from the tails of two boiled sea crayfish or lobsters in a basin and pour some oil and vinegar over them. Boil some various kinds of vegetables, and when cold, cut them up in small pieces; mix with them the claws of the lobsters or cray- fish, and some mayonnaise set with aspic. Pack a cylinder timbale-mould in ice, ornament the sides with white of egg cut in diamond-shaped pieces, raw gherkins, or boiled beetroot, putting first white of egg and then beetroot or gherkin, and so on, making them come in regular order, and dipping each piece in half-set aspic jelly. Fill the mould with the Salad and leave it in the ice for one hour. Prepare a pain-vert, and fix it on a dish. Dip the mould in tepid water,-wipe it, and turn the Salad on to the pain-vert. Dip the slices of crayfish in aspic jelly, arrange them in circular order on the top of the Salad, garnish the hollow with chopped aspic, put some croutons of jelly round the base (see Fig. 429), and serve with a sauceboatful of _ mayonnaise sauce.