229 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., rej'erred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. until beginning to brown; then put the Potatoes in with them, dust over with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, season to taste with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, moisten with a small quantity of clear stock that has been perfectly freed from fat, and toss the whole over the fire for seven or eight minutes. Turn the curry on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Pick out the required quantity of good sound Potatoes, peel and wash them, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan with a peeled and sliced onion and a lump of butter, and fry them lightly. Dredge 1 table-spoonful of curry powder over them, and stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of stock to cover; add a tomato and a small boiled vegetable-marrow, both sliced, also a small quantity of the milk from a cocoa-nut. Let the curry simmer gently at the side of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. When ready, squeeze the juice of half a lemon in the curry, turn it into a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve it with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. Fried Potatoes.—Peel and wash six large Potatoes, cut them up into fine slices Jin. in thickness, plunge them into very hot clarified beet-suet or fat, and cook slowly. When they are soft lift them out with a skimmer. It generally takes ten minutes to cook them. Heat the fat again to boil- ing-point, put the Potatoes back, smooth them down with a skimmer, and after two minutes they will swell up con- siderably ; lift them out with the skimmer, drain, sprinkle over with 1 pinch of salt, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin. These Potatoes answer for garnishing chops and other meats. A little glaze may be put in with fat if desired. Glazed Potatoes.—Boil and skin lib. or so of floury Potatoes, roll them in yolk of egg, and place them before the fire to brown. Serve hot. Imitation New Potatoes.—Peel the Potatoes round and round until the size of new ones, wash them, and boil for ten minutes; drain, roll them up quickly in a cloth, and put them on the hob at the side of the fire for ten minutes longer. Next put them in a stewpan, moisten them to height with cream, and boil very gently at the edge of the fire until they are quite tender. When the Potatoes are cooked, take them one at a tune out of the stewpan, put them on a hot dish, pour the cream round them, and serve. Care must be taken to avoid cooking them too much, or they will break. White sauce may be used instead of cream if more convenient. Mashed Potatoes.—(1) This is considered the best way to serve Potatoes that are very old. Peel and wash the Potatoes, put them into a bowl of cold water, and let them remain for an hour or so to soak; then put them in a saucepan with sufficient slightly-salted water to cover them, set tbe pan on the fire, and boil gently from half to three-quarters of-an-hour. Drain off all the water when they are done, turn the Potatoes into a mortar or large bowl, and pound them well with a pestle or end of a rolling- Potatoes—continued. pin. If there is about lib. weight of the pulp, put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of milk, warm it on the fire, and stir it into the mashed Potatoes, care being taken not to have them too wet. Put the mash into a vegetable-disli, mark it over with a fork, brown it in front of the fire or with a salamander (see Fig. 290), and serve. (2) Indian Style.—Cut up into slices a large onion and two hot green chillies, put them in a basin, squeeze over the juice of a fresh lime, and let them remain for several hours to soak. In the meantime well boil about ten good-sized Potatoes, add h teaspoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of mustard oil, bruise the Potatoes with a fork, add the onions and chillies and a little lime-juice, and mix thoroughly with the hand, using it lightly so that the Potatoes, although well mashed and mixed, will not cake. When ready put the mixture on a dish, and serve. This dish is usually served as an accompaniment to curry and rice. Potatoes a la Barigoule.—Peel and wash ten Potatoes, put them into a saucepan with broth to cover, and boil them gently until tender. Drain the Potatoes as carefully as possible so as not to break them. Pour about 1 teacupful of olive oil into a deep frying-pan, put it over the fire until hot, then put in the Potatoes, and turn them about gently until lightly browned all over. Put them on a dish, sprinkle salt, pepper, and vinegar all over them, and serve hot. Potatoes a la Duchesse.—Beat some nice floury Potatoes to a flour with a fork, not pounding them but whipping them up lightly while hot. Have two eggs ready beaten, whites and yolks separately, the whites being beaten to a stiff froth. Beat the yolks in lightly to the mashed Potatoes, together with salt and pepper to taste, 1 table- spoonful of butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream; whip all together to a creamy heap, and then lightly and quickly whip in the frothed whites. Put the mixture in a saucepan over the fire, and stir all together till thoroughly hot, then turn it on to a dish and let it stand till quite cold. Dip a cake-cutter into cold water, and with it cut the Potato paste into rounds or squares. Grease the inside of a baking-tin, lay the Potato cakes in it in rows, but not so closely as to touch one another, and bake them in a quick oven, as soon as they begin to brown brushing them over with beaten egg. Fold a napkin on a hot dish, arrange them nicely on it, and serve. Potatoes a la Gastronome.—Peel, clean, and with a tube- cutter cut twelve medium-sized Potatoes into pieces Him long. Place them in a saucepan, cover with water, add 1 pinch of salt, and cook for twenty-five minutes. Drain them, place on a hot dish, pour over 1 gill of hot pdrigueux sauce, and serve. Potatoes a la Genevoise.—Peel, wash, and drain four medium-sized Potatoes, cut them into shreds, and wash and drain them again. Season with 1 pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper. Butter lightly six tartlet-moulds with clarified butter, cover the bottoms with grated Parmesan cheese, arrange a layer of Potatoes on top, sprinkle more cheese over them, and continue till all are filled, finishing by sprinkling cheese over the surface and dropping a little clarified butter over all. Set them on a very hot stove for two minutes, then place in a hot oven, and bake them for twenty-five minutes. Turn them out, place them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve. Potatoes au Gratin.—(1) Wash some Potatoes, put them in a saucepan of water with their skins on, and boil them. Peel and mash them well. Spread a layer of the Potato in a baking-dish, grate some Parmesan cheese over, and put in a few lumps of butter. Use up the remainder of the Potato in this manner, finishing at the last with grated cheese and butter. Brown under a hot salamander or in the oven, and serve while very hot. (2) Mash eight cold boiled Potatoes, place them in a dish (a silver one preferrred), sprinkle over them 2 table-