327 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. (2) Put ]2oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover it, and boil for an hour; pour off the water, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream, ; and continue the boiling until the Rice is done, adding gradually 8oz. of sugar and a little vanilla or other flavouring. Put the mixture into a mould packed in ice, turn it out when sufficiently frozen, and serve. (3) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Rice into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, 6 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a flavouring of cinnamon, and simmer gently at the side of the fire with the lid on the pan until the Rice is tender, which will be in about balf-an-hour. Beat the yolks of six eggs in a basin with 1 table-spoonful of milk, pour in a little of the liquor from the Rice, turn it into the saucepan with the Rice, and heat over the fire again but without boiling. Take out the cinnamon, which should be in one piece, let the preparation cool, and put it into the freezer; in a few minutes add 1 teacupful of well-whipped cream, put it into a mould packed in ice, and let it get firm. Turn it on to a dish, garnish with candied fruits, sliced and whole, and serve. See Pig. 381. Italian Rice Balls. Take some cooked Rice, not too moist, and nicely flavoured and sweetened, roll it flat, cut it into pieces of a convenient size, and roll them up in the shape of a sausage, putting a little preserve in the centre of each. Brush them over with egg, cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them. Serve hot. Italian Rice Pudding.—Wash and boil 1 teacupful of Rice, then drain and mix with it Jib. of finely-chopped beef-suet, 2oz. of sultana raisins, 2oz. of caster sugar, and the beaten yolks of four eggs. Flavour the mixture to taste with a few drops of ratafia or vanilla, and stir in lightly the well-whisked whites of three eggs. Butter a pudding-mould, pour the mixture into it, tie a cloth over, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. In the meantime prepare a brandy sauce. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a hoi dish, and serve it with the sauce in a sauceboat. Neapolitan Risot.—Put a chopped onion into a saucepan with a little oil and slightly colour it; add lib. of well- washed Rice, cook for a minute, and then pour over con- sonun4 to about three times its height; add a chopped tomato without seeds, and cook slowly for about twenty minutes. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of grated cheese and a ragout of cooked mushrooms, oysters, and crayfish-tails. Cover the pan, cook for two or three minutes longer, turn the risot out on to a dish, and serve. Rice a la Bearnaise.—Put ill), of blanched Rice into a saucepan, pour over sufficient warm milk to moisten, set the saucepan over a slow fire, and cook gently until the Rice is done. Sweeten to taste, stirring the sugar in with a fork, cover the pan, and let the Rice cool. Mix in \ wineglassful of maraschino, and put the mixture in layers into a dome-shaped mould packed in ice, covering each layer with preserved fruit cut up small, and con- tinue in this way until the mould is full, finishing up with the Rice. Put a piece of paper on the top, place the cover of the mould over, seal it hermetically with fat, and let it remain for an hour. Turn it out, and serve. Rice—continued. Rice a la Conde.—(1) Boil together 1 pint each of milk and water; when boiling drop in 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice, and boil for twenty-five minutes, stirring continually. When cooked, stir in J saltspoonful of salt, 4oz. of caster sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water. Mix well for one minute, break in three whole eggs, and stir again Fig. 382. Rice X la Cond^. for two minutes. Arrange the Rice nicely on a hot dish, keeping it high in the centre, and decorate it with stewed peaches, 2oz. of dried currants, and loz. of candied angelica cut in small lozenge-shaped pieces (see Fig. 382). Serve cold. (2) Put loz. of Rice into a disli with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and bake until the Rice is soft; then remove the skin from the surface, and let the Rice get cold. Put a little of it at the bottom of a dish as nearly round as possible, over this put a layer of jam or marmalade of any kind, and continue in this way until all the Rice is used up. Pour over some rich custard, and serve. Sice a la Pranqaise. —Wash well and blanch in boiling water for ten minutes Jib. of Patna Rice. Boil it in a saucepan with loz. of butter, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, 1 pint of milk, two bitter almond maca- roons, J- teaspoonful of orange-flower water, Joz. of candied orange-peel cut into shreds, about twelve candied cherries cut into halves, and twelve large stoned muscatel raisins, also Joz. of thin slices of candied angelica. Pour into a mould, and when cold turn out, and serve with a sauce thickened with 1 gill of sherry, kirsch, or rum. Rice a 1’Imperatrice. —Thoroughly wash § teacupful of Rice, and boil it in 1 pint of milk, with a piece of stick vanilla and caster sugar to taste. When quite tender, turn the Rice into a basin, and leave it until cold. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, stir them over the lire until thickened and on the point of boiling, then move it off. When the custard is cold, stir it up with the Rice. Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a small quantity of water, and whip \ breakfast-cupful of cream to a stiff' froth; mix them with the Rice and custard. Turn the mixture into a mould, place it on pounded ice, and leave it for a few hours. Stew some ripe plums with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water until tender. When the plums are quite cold, turn them on to a fancy or glass dish, turn the Rice out of the mould on to them, and serve. Rice a la Menagere.—Put 6oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan of boiling water, and blanch it for five or six minutes; then take it out and drain it. Blanch 4oz. of streaky bacon, cut it up into pieces about lin. square, put them into a deep frying-pan, and fry them until they are yellow; then add the Rice, a little pepper, and about 3 breakfast-cupfuls of rich broth. Stir frequently over the fire for about twenty minutes, remove the pan from the fire, add 1 breakfast-cupful of tomato sauce, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Rice a la Milanaise.—Put 1 teacupful of milk or white stock into a saucepan on the fire; when it boils, add 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice and a little finely- chopped onion. Cover over the pan, and boil slowly for about twenty minutes, by which time the Rice should be