220 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continued. Pork—continued. Pork Fritters and Cabbage.—Boil some cabbage and strain it well, then chop it and fry in a little butter or dripping. Season with pepper and salt, and lay on it slices of cold boiled or roasted Pork, seasoned with pepper and salt and lightly fried. Serve very hot. Fork-and-Kidney Pudding.—Cut some rather thick slices from the chump end of a fore loin of Pork, and trim them neatly; cut half as many Pork kidneys as there are slices of meat into four pieces each; finely mince 4oz. of fresh beef-suet and mix it with lib. of flour, add 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir it into a smooth paste with water. Put the dough on a floured table, roll it out, and line a buttered pudding-basin with it, trim it round the edges, and roll out the trimmings to form a cover for the top of the pudding. Put a layer of the Pork at the bottom of the basin, then dust it over with salt and pepper, next put in a layer of the kidneys and a layer of Pork force- meat. Fill the basin then with alternate layers, season- ing each layer slightly with salt and pepper. Moisten to height with water or clear stock, cover with the round of paste, and pinch the edges together. Tie a floured cloth over the top of the pudding, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, being very careful not to break it, and serve quickly. Pork Fatties.—Make some good pie crust, roll it out rather thin, divide into pieces about 6in. long and 3in. broad, lay on some of these pieces of paste some young Pork cut in bits about Jin. square well seasoned with pepper and salt, lay on top another piece of paste, moisten the edges with cold water and press them together, brush the patties over with beaten egg, and bake. As an im- provement put into each with the meat a little baked apple. These may he made round by cutting with a round paste- cutter and pinching the edge with a fork (see Fig. 280). Fig. 280. Pork Patty. Fork Pie.—(1) To lib. of flour allow Jib. of lard and Joz. of butter ; rub about one-third of the lard in the flour, and melt the rest with the butter in a small quantity of hot milk and water; skim and mix it in slowly with the flour, adding a little salt and more milk or water if necessary to bring the paste to the desired consistency. Knead it well and raise the crust in an oval shape. Cut some rather lean Pork into small pieces, season it with chopped sage, salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of cayenne and mace. Put the Pork in the crust and cover it; trim the edges of the paste, moisten them, and press them together. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut them into leaves, moisten at the bottom, and ornament the top of the pie with them; a small hole should be cut in the top of the crust. Bake it in a moderate oven for about two hours or more according to the size of the pie. With the trimmings of the Pork prepare some nicely-seasoned gravy, and when the pie is cooked filter it in through the hole at the top. Serve it either hot or cold. (2) Remove the skin and bones from some lean spare-rib or loin of Pork and neck of veal, taking them in the proportion of three parts Pork to one part veal. Chop up the meat into small cubes, mixing them well, and sprinkle over ground allspice, salt, and pepper. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan with a little water and a few sweet herbs, and boil until all the goodness is extracted from them; reduce it if there is too much, strain it, and put it in a cool place until wanted. Well butter a pie-dish or mould, line it with a good pie crust, put a few thin slices of ham at the bottom, then the meat intermixed with forcemeat balls, quarters of hard-boiled eggs, slices of truffles or button mushrooms, and pour in sufficient gravy to moisten but not to soak the meat. Cover with a crust, decorate it with leaves or flowers cut out in paste with tin cutters, put it into the oven, and bake until done. Take it out, let it get cold, turn it out of the dish or mould, and it is ready for serving. (3) Prepare a good Pork pie crust as follows: Put 4oz. of lard or clarified dripping into a saucepan with It tea- cupfuls of water, and boil them; pour it while still hot over lib. of flour in a basin and add a pinch of salt. Work these into a stiff paste, cut off about one-third of it for the covers, and roll out the remainder on a well-floured board or table. Cut this up into as many equal-sized pieces as are required, roll the pieces up into balls, make an indent with the knuckles in the centre of them, and gradually work them up into shape, taking care to have the paste of an equal thickness all over and without any air holes that the gravy could ran out of. Cut off lib. of lean with a little fat from the chump end of a fore-loin of Pork, chop it up into small cubes, pour 1 table-spoonful of water over it, and sprinkle with a little more than 1 teaspoonful of salt and a little less than 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Put this minced meat into the pie shapes, roll out the covers and put them on, keeping them in a good high shape; trim the edges, and ornament the lids with leaves made of the trimmings. Place the pies on a baking sheet, brush them over with the yolk of egg, and when the paste is cool and set, push the baking sheet into a moderate oven, and bake for an-hour-and a half or until the liquor boils out of them. In the meantime prepare a good gravy with the bones and trimmings of Pork, making it so that when it is cold it will jelly ; fill the pies up with this, let them get cold, and they are ready for use. It would perhaps be preferable to make this quantity of paste into only one pie, as great care is required in making them and the moulding operation must he performed whilst the paste is quite hot, and it must be done as quickly as possible or the effect will be spoilt. Although these pies can be made in moulds, forming them with the hand is considered to give them the neatest appearance. (4) Yorkshire.—Put 4oz. each of finely-slired suet and butter into a basin and rub them into lib. of flour. Turn them into a saucepan, and as soon as the butter and suet are melted, return the mixture to the basin and work it into a stiff paste. Cover the basin with a cloth and put it in front of the fire until wanted. Cut into pieces 21b. of the lean of neck of Pork without any skin, sprinkle them over with 1 teaspoonful of powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Roll out the paste on a well-floured board or table, cut it up into equal parts, and with each of these make a small raised round shape, keeping suffi- cient of the paste for a lid; fill these shapes with the Pork mixture, cover with the lid, pinching it round the edge to fasten it, ornament the top and sides (see Fig. 281) put the pies on a baking sheet in a hot oven, and bake for an-hour-and a-lialf. When the pies are done, take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Pork Pudding.—Line a pudding basin with some good suet crusts and put in a layer of slices of Pork, using about 1 Jib. in all, then put a layer of fib. of sausage-meat or sausages cut up into slices, add a few dried sage leaves, one onion cut up very small, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover the basin with a round of the crust, tie over a well-floured cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two-hours-and-a-half. Take it out when done, remove the cloth, turn the pudding out on to a dish, and serve very hot. A little gravy stock or water may be added before the top crust is put on.