230 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, t&c., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. spoonfuls each of Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, spread well over them a piece of butter the size of a walnut, then place the dish in the oven. After ten minutes, when of a good golden colour, serve. Potatoes d l’ltalienne.—(1) Take some nice floury boiled Potatoes, and beat them to flour with a fork. ' Do not pound them, but whip them up lightly while hot. Have two eggs ready beaten, whites and yolks separately, the whites to a stiff froth. Beat the yoiks in lightly to the mashed Potatoes, together with salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Whip all together to a creamy heap, and then lightly and Fig. 291. Potatoes a l’Italienne. quickly whip in the frothed whites. Butter a baking-tin, and pile the mash into it, making the top as rocky as possible. Brown in a quick oven, slip on to a hot flat dish, and serve. See Fig. 291. (2) Boil eight medium-sized Potatoes in boiling water, peel them, put them in a saucepan, and mash them; add loz. of butter and a piece of fresh bread the size of a French roll, without any crust, soaked in milk; add 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, in order to form a pliable paste, three yolks of eggs, and the whites of three beaten to a froth; season with \ pinch each of salt and pepper, and J of a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well together, pile it high on a baking dish, pour over it a little melted butter, sprinkle over a little Parmesan cheese, and place it in the oven. After ten minutes, when of a good golden colour, serve. Potatoes a la Julienne.—Peel Potatoes of medium size, cut them in slices and crosswise with a fluted vegetable- knife, fry them in plenty of smoking-hot fat, and serve hot. Potatoes a la Lyonnaise.—Cut eight boiled Potatoes into round slices, lay them in a frying-pan with 1 ioz. of butter and the round slices of a fried onion, and season with \ Fig. 292. Potatoes 1 la Lyonnaise. pinch each of salt and pepper. Cook well together for six minutes until well browned, toss them well, and serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over the whole. Sec Fig. 282. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel.—(1) Peel and boil some nice Potatoes, taking care not to overdo them; drain, and leave them until cold, then cut them into rather thick slices. Put a large piece of butter into a flat stewpan, dredge in \ table-spoonful of flour, and stir it until - dissolved and melted; mix in gradually 1 breakfast- Fotatoes—continued. cupful of broth, and continue stirring until it boils, then put in the Potatoes, with about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and pepper to taste. Stew the Potatoes for two or three minutes, then move the pan to the edge of the fire, and stir in quickly the yolk of one egg that has been beaten with 1 teaspoonful of cold water and a small quantity of strained lemon-juice. When the egg has thickened, turn the Potatoes with their sauce on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Take eight medium-sized boiled Potatoes, peel them, cut them into slices, and place them in a saucepan with loz. of butter and 1 pinch of chopped parsley; season with | pinch each of salt and pepper, J pinch of nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. Warm all together, toss well, add \ breakfast-cupful of cream, heat slightly once more, and serve. Potatoes with. Bacon.—Cut loz. of bacon or pork into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with |oz. of butter, and cook for live minutes; add 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir, and brown well for four minutes; moisten with 1 pint of white broth, and cook for five minutes longer. Put in eight well peeled, washed, and sliced raw Potatoes, season with half a pinch of pepper and ^ of a pinch of nutmeg, put the lid on, and cook for twenty-five minutes. Then skim off' the fat, and serve in a hot deep dish. Potato Balls.—(1) Mash lib. of boiled Potatoes, rub them through a wire sieve, mix with them Jib. of grated ham, a little chopped parsley or finely-powdered, dried sweet herbs, a small onion very finely chopped, a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and the beaten yolks of two Fig. 293. Potato Balls. eggs. Roil this mixture into balls (see Fig. 293), flour or egg-and-breadcrumb them, fry them in dripping, or brown them before the fire in a Dutch oven, and serve on a hot dish. (2) Peel and boil the Potatoes, mash them through a fine hair sieve, beat them up with the yolks of two or three eggs and a little thick cream, but do not make them too liquid; add a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and onion, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Take the mixture up in table-spoon- fuls and mould it into small round balls with floured hands. Put a lump of butter in a saute-pan, and place it on the fire; when melted, lay the balls in carefully and fry them slowly, turning them when done on one side. When nicely and equally browned, drain the Potatoes on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire for a minute. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the Potato balls on it, garnish round with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Beer.—Peel four or five white sweet Potatoes, rub them through a coarse grater into a bowl, pour over 3galls. of boiling water, flavour with ten or twelve cloves, and sweeten to taste. Clarify with egg-shells, let it stand for a day or so, strain, pour it into bottles, cork them up tightly, and in six or seven days it will have fermented slightly and be ready for use. Potato Biscuits.—(1) Procure good mealy Potatoes and boil them till soft, then peel and mash them, and mix loz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of salt with them. When