275 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Punch—continued. and mix well. Half-fill the glass with finely-powdered ice, fill it up with cold milk, and grate a little nutmeg on the top. (3) Put 1 tahle-spoonful of powdered white sugar into a good-sized tumbler, add 2 table-spoonfuls of hot water, and stir till the sugar is partly melted; then pour in I, wineglassful of the best rum and 1 wineglassful of the best brandy, and fill up the tumbler with hot milk. HXuscovite Punch.—Stir together freely lqt. of thin syrup and lqt. of fine rum, add 1 teaspoonful of essence of lemon and 1 gill of lime-juice. To this when well mixed add 1 pint of strong tea. Serve with plenty of ice-water in summer time, or neat in winter. Oxford Punch.—The only Punch worthy of the name is described under Oxford Night-cats as Brown Betty or Leander Punch. Pompadour’s Punch.—Cut two lemons into slices, put them into a jar with a wide mouth, add a bottle of brandy, tie down the jar, and let it stand for a day. Pour in a bottle of sherry, next |gall. of syrup, then 1 pint of infusion of green tea, and strain the whole into another jar. Add to this 1 pint of milk and 1 teaspoon- ful each of the tinctures of clove and coriander; stir up well, and bottle. Pot-Still Punch.—Make 1 pint of green tea, strain it into a jug, and mix with it 1 pint of orange-jelly and 1 table- spoonful of honey. Stand the jug in hot water. Make a Punch-bowl hot by keeping it in boiling water, wipe it, pour in the tea, &c., and two bottles of Irish whisky, 2 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and 1 wineglassful of rum. Stir the whole thoroughly, and serve. Punch Essence.—(1) Put |lb. of loaf sugar into a sauce- pan with the grated peel of four lemons and as much water as it will absorb. Boil the sugar till reduced to a clear syrup, then put in the strained juice of five lemons. Move the syrup away from the fire, let it cool, then mix with it 3 pints of rum or arrack. Pour the essence into bottles, cork tightly, and keep them in a dry cupboard. (2) Put the thinly-pared rind of eight lemons and three Seville oranges into a large bottle; squeeze in the juice of twelve lemons and three oranges, and pour in 3 pints of rum or arrack. Cork the bottle and leave it for a week. Put 2£lb. of loaf sugar in a saucepan, pour in 1 h pints of good amber-coloured wine, and boil until reduced to a clear syrup; then move it off the fire and let it cool. Filter the syrup through a fine piece of flannel, and mix it with the juice and rum. Pour the liqueur into small bottles, and cork them tightly. Rip Van Winkle Punch.—Pour 1 pint of Bourbon whisky into a large bowl, and mix two or three drops of essence of lemon with it, also 1 teacupful of lime-juice cordial. Put \ pint of ice cream in the centre in the form of a cone. The cream may be flavoured with either raspberry, lemon, or strawberry. At the last moment pour in a bottle of lemonade, and serve. Roman Punch (Ponche Romaine).—(1) Putin a freezing- pot lqt. of peach water-ice, a bottle of dry champagne, 2 wine-glassfuls of noyau, and the strained juice of four oranges. Colour it a delicate pink with a few drops of cochineal, and flavour with essence of vanilla. Work the mixture till nearly frozen, then add gradually three whites of eggs made into Italian meringue; work all together quickly till smooth, and serve. (2) Mix together lqt. of sherry water-ice, 1 bottle of Moselle, 2 wineglassfuls of kirschenwasser, and 1 wine- glassful of noyau; put these ingredients in a freezing-pot embedded in ice, work them thoroughly while freezing, then add the whites of three eggs of Italian meringue paste. When finished, serve the Punch in glasses. (3) Dissolve breakfast-cupfuls of loaf sugar in 1 pint of hot water. Grate the rind of one lemon in a basin, squeeze in the juice and also that of an orange; then mix the hot syrup in with them, and let it stand till cool. Strain the Punch into a freezer, and work it till nearly frozen; beat in the whipped whites of two eggs, add 1 teacupful of either rum or wine, and serve in glasses. Punch—continued. (4) Select for this two or three juicy limes, squeeze out the juice into a basin, mix it up with the juice of four oranges or lemons, strain the liquor, and stir in 21b. of loaf sugar. Put the whites of ten eggs into a basin, beat them to a froth, mix them with the sweetened juice, turn the mixture into a pewter vessel, pack it in ice, and stir well until it hardens. Put 2qts. of champagne into another vessel packed in ice, let it get as cold as possible without freezing, add to it the sweetened juice, turn the whole out into coloured glasses, and serve. A great improvement to the flavour can be obtained by working in 1 wineglassful of rum. Virginia Verder Punch.—Take nine lemons and nine oranges, pare off the yellow peels as thinly as possible, and let them steep in a bottle of brandy for twenty-four hours. Cut the lemons and oranges into halves, and squeeze the juice through a strainer, so that it may be quite free from pips, on to 31b. of loaf sugar. Pour on to this Ingalls, of boiling water and 3 pints of boiling milk, then add the brandy, and stir all together. Strain the Punch through a jelly-bag as often as required to free it from sediment. When perfectly clear, bottle it, cork the bottles well, and keep them in a cool place. Whisky Punch.—Put 1 heaped-up table-spoonful of white sugar in a tumbler, pour in 1 wineglassful of either cold or hot water (according to whether the Punch is to be hot or cold), and let the sugar melt; then add a small piece of lemon-peel, and, if liked, \ teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 1 wineglassful of whisky, and as much hot or cold water as is desired. The Punch is then ready to drink. Punch is a very favourite flavouring with some cooks and confectioners, and is used for a variety of purposes. Amongst those more generally known and appreciated are the following, in which the Punch ingredients are added all together, singly, or only by suggestion. Bavaroise of Punch.—Squeeze the juice of four lemons into a stewpan; thinly pare the rind off two lemons, and add it to the juice, together with loz. of isinglass, ilb. of loaf sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Boil the above ingredients gently until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity, then pass it through a fine hair sieve or tammy into a basin, and leave it till cold. Mix 2 wine- glassfuls each qL rum Punch and maraschino, and \ wine- glassful of arraSr with the bavaroise, then stir it over ice until on the point of setting. Mix 1 pint of whipped cream with the above ingredients, turn the mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice until frozen. When ready to serve, the mould should be dipped in warm water, then wiped, and the contents turned quickly out on to a fancy dish. The stated quantity of isinglass may be too much or insufficient, as it greatly depends on the quality of the isinglass; the best plan is to try a small quantity of the mixture on ice before adding the cream; if not stiff enough, more clarified isinglass must be added, but if the reverse, the mixture can be thinned by adding more Punch. Garnish with crystallised fruits. Punch en Surprise.—Have six different fancy moulds, resembling in shape a pear, apple, banana, tomato, pine- apple, and peach. Fill a tin pan with ice well mixed with rock salt, lay on it the six moulds, opened flat, fill them with cold water, also the pan to half its height, and let them rest for half-an-hour, feeling the insides of the moulds to find whether a frozen crust adheres to them. Have ready any kind of Puncli; take up each mould separately, empty out the water, fill one after another with Punch, close tightly, and lay them in a pail previously prepared with broken ice and rock salt at the bottom ; cover with plenty more ice and salt, and let them freeze for an hour. Have ready a cold dish with a folded napkin over; put some warm water in a vessel, take up each mould sepa- rately, dip them into the water and hastily wash off any ice or salt that may adhere, turn them out carefully, lay them on the dish, and send to table at once. Punch Cream Bonbons.—Soak 2oz. of gum arabie in 1 teacupful of hot "water, then strain it through a piece of muslin into a basin with a few drops of essence of bitter For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads. T 2