222 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Fork—continued. this powder and basting with butter till it is almost done. Make some forcemeat balls of the same ingredients as those used to baste the Pork, mixed with a little beaten egg, fry them, and garnish the dish with them. Serve with brown gravy. Boasted Loin of Fork.—Select a loin of Pork weighing 41b. or 51b., score it all over, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast. It should not be placed too close, or the outside will be done before it is cooked through. Baste it frequently with its own drippings, and let it remain for about two-hours-and a half, when it should be quite done. Put it on a dish, add a little thickening of flour to the drippings or gravy, pour it over the Pork, and serve with a sauceboatful of apple sauce. It may also be served stuffed with sage and-onion stuffing; or the stuffing may be baked separately and served round the dish with the loin of Pork, or on a separate one. Boasted Loin of Fork a la Bordelaise.—Trim off the greater part of the fat from half a saddle or chine of Pork, take out the spine-bone, and slightly score the fat, then thrust in at each end a clove of garlic. Truss the loin and put it into a baking-pan with i pint of water, and sprinkle it well over with powdered sage, salt, and pepper, Cover the meat with a piece of buttered paper, put it in a moderate oven, and roast it for an-hour-and-a half, basting it frequently. When it has been cooking for an hour and ten minutes, put a few button mushrooms round it, and baste them with the liquor in the pan. Take out the Pork, put it on a dish, and garnish with the cooked mushrooms Skim off the fat from the gravy, add to it a few table- spoonfuls of rich gravy or a little glaze, boil it once, then pass it through a sieve or strainer over the meat, and serve. Boasted Loin of Pork a la Franqaise.—Score a large loin of Pork, cut off the minion or small fillet, take off the skin from it, remove the sinews, and finely chop it. Add an equal bulk of breadcrumbs to this minced meat, and mix in a little each of sage and parsley and a small onion, all finely chopped; sprinkle the mixture over with salt and pepper, and make it into a stiff paste with the yolks of two or three eggs. Fill the cavity of the loin, where the fillet was taken from, with this stuffing, cover it with a piece of pig’s caul, then fill the flap (bavette), and tie up the loin with thread or fine string. When ready, set it in front of a clear fire and let it roast for an hour. Put it on a dish, sprinkle it over with salt, pour over a little piquante sauce or rich gravy, and serve. A few Westphalian pickles may be served with it. Boasted Marinaded Pork.—Trim off all the skin from a piece of Pork, any kind may be used, rub it well with salt, put it in a deep dish, with a few sliced onions, sage- leaves, thyme, basil, and a few juniper berries and cloves, dust- ing it over with plenty of pepper. Baste the meat with 4 or 5 table spoonfuls of vinegar and leave it for a few days, basting and turning it two or three times each day. When the meat is sufficiently marinaded, put it witli the other ingredients into a baking-dish, place it in the oven, and bake until half cooked. Take the dish out of the oven, pour in boiling water, and stir it round well; strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve, return it to the oven, and finish cooking it. The meat should be well basted during the baking, to prevent its being dry. Put the meat on a hot Fork—continued. dish, skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the meat, and serve. Boasted Neck of Pork.—Take a neck of Pork, trim it, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast, basting it frequently with a little butter and its own drippings. Put it on a dish, and serve. The neck of Pork may be garnished with a few stuffed tomatoes on either side, and a little d’Uxelles sauce in a sauceboat or a little poivrade sauce only may be used; or it may be garnished with a circle of putbe of onions or chestnuts and a little half-glaze served in a sauceboat; or in any other manner that the ingenuity of the cook may suggest. Boasted Pork Griskin.—Put a griskin into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover it, place the pan on the fire, and immediately the water boils take out the griskin, rub it well over with slightly warmed butter, then with flour, put it in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire, and roast it. When it is done (it will take about fifteen minutes for each pound), take it out, and it is ready for use. Boasted Pork with Herring (German).—Select a nice piece either of the neck, breast, or loin of Pork, take out all the bones, and beat it well with a rolling-pin. Clean and bone a Dutch herring, cut it into fillets or shreds, season them with pepper, and lard the meat all over with them. Roll the meat up, skewer it, and bind a few slices of lemon round the outside. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a stewpan, make it hot, then lay in the Pork and brown it over a slow fire, turning it occasionally. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of water over the meat and baste it occasionally until cooked. Put the meat on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over it, and serve it with a dish of sourcrout. Boasted Saddle of Pork.—Remove the skin and fat from a saddle of Pork taken from a young and small pig, cover it with a sheet of well-buttered paper, and roast it before a clear fire until done, allowing twenty minutes to each pound of meat. Baste it constantly, and when quite done put it on a dish and serve with a little brown gravy poured over it, and a little Robert or tomato sauce in a sauceboat. The buttered paper may be substituted by covering the saddle of Pork over with its own skin, fastening it in its place with skewers, and removing the skin about half an-hour before the meat is cooked, basting it frequently and sprinkling it over with flour to give it a good brown colour. Boasted Shoulder of Pork.—Bone a shoulder of Pork, and spread it over inside with a stuffing of sage and onions, and filling the cavity where the bone was taken from. Roll it up, securing it with string, and put it in front of a clear fire with a pan underneath it to catch the drip- pings, ami let it roast until done. It will take about twenty minutes for each pound. Put it on a dish when done; skim off the fat from the pan, add a little water and 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, boil the gravy up, pour it through a strainer over the meat, and serve. Boasted Stuffed Leg of Pork.—(1) Take a rather small leg of Pork, score the skin all over, making incisions with a sharp knife at about Jin. apart, and make a slit in the knuckle; lift up the skin and fill the cavity with stuffing of sage and onions, and fasten the skin down in its place with a skewer. Place the leg at a little distance from a clear fire, so that it will not cook too fast, and roast it, basting frequently with its own liquor. A few minutes before removing it from the fire, brush it over with warmed butter, sprinkle over with flour, and set it closer to tlie fire so as to make it crisp and brown. When done, place it on a dish, thicken the gravy in the pan with a little butter rolled in flour, pour the gravy over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of apple sauce made with baked apples. (2) Select a leg of Pork weighing 61b. or 71b., cut it down parallel to the bone, and trim it so as leave the skin longer than the meat. Have ready some potatoes, well - boiled and mashed, mix them up with a small lump of butter and a finely-chopped onion, a little finely-powdered sage, cayenne, and salt to taste. Stuff this mixture into