THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 294 For details respecting Culinaru Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. or three truffles, cut up into very small pieces. Have ready two round moulds well buttered, one being larger than the other, fill them both with the forcemeat, put them in the bain-marie or in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and poach the forcemeat. Take them out, and let them get quite cold; then turn the cakes out, trim them, and glaze with a little game glaze. Put a round rice socle in a dish, pour over montpellier butter, put the larger cake of forcemeat on it with the smaller one on top, pile a little aspic on this, garnish both the tops and base of the cakes with pieces of aspic, and serve. Rabbit Grenadines a la Pinanciere.—Lard a dozen fillets of Rabbits, put them into a saute-pan with mirepoix to about three-quarters their height, cook them, ami glaze them. Fill a well-buttered plain border-mould with Rabbit forcemeat, put it in the bain-marie or in a saucepan of boiling water, and poach the forcemeat. Turn the border of forcemeat out on to a dish, fill the centre with a ragout of truffles, cocks’ combs, kernels, fat livers, and Rabbit forcemeat quenelles, put the fillets round the top of the border, and serve. Rabbit-Liver-and-Lemon Sauce.—Take the fresh and per- fectly sound liver of a Rabbit, wash it well, and boil it for about five minutes in 1 teacupful of water; then either chop it very fine or pound it with a little of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve. Pare off the yellow rind of a lemon as thinly as possible, then peel oft' all the white, and cut the lemon into slices rather thicker than a crown piece; take out the pips, and cut the slices into small squares. Chop a little of the yellow peel very fine, add it, together with the squares of lemon, to the liver, put both liver and lemon into 1 gill of melted butter sauce in a saucepan, and let them get quite hot, but do not allow them to boil. Serve in a sauce-tureen. Rabbit-Liver Sauce.—Stew a Rabbit’s liver in veal gravy till tender, then finely chop it, together -with a little shallot and a few pot herbs. Put this back into the gravy to thicken it, add 1 wineglassful of white wine, and serve. Rabbits’ Livers fried with Bacon.—(1) Wash two livers and disgorge the vessels of clotted blood, dry thoroughly, and cut into slices or collops. Have ready some fine breadcrumbs mixed with finely-chopped parsley, and a beaten egg. Wipe over the pieces of liver with the juicy part of a lemon, roll them in the breadcrumbs, then dip them in the egg, and roll them a second time in the breadcrumbs and parsley. Cut some thin slices of streaky bacon, and after trimming it thoroughly, roll it up, and tie in two places with bits of thread; cook these in the frying-pan, and when done, drain them on crumpled paper; then fry the pieces of liver in the same manner, pile them in the centre of a dish, squeeze a little lemon- juice over, and arrange the bacon round the edge. An ornamental paper over the dish adds to the appearance. Garnish with fried parsley. (2) Wash two or three Rabbits’ livers, and thoroughly disgorge and then dry them. Fry a few slices of fat bacon, take them out when cooked, and lay them on a flat dish. Set these in the oven to keep warm. Dust the livers over with flour, and cook them either whole or cut into slices in the fat that has melted from the bacon. When done, lay the livers in the centre of the dish on the bacon, and serve very hot. Rabbit Mulligatawny.—Cut the best pieces of meat off a fine Ostend Rabbit, trim them into nice-shaped small pieces, and season them with a small quantity of powdered cloves. Put the bones and trimmings of the Rabbit into a sauce- pan with plenty of water, and boil them for three or four hours to make a nice stock. Place a large lump of butter into a stewpan, put in the pieces of meat with two sliced onions, and fry them until nicely browned. Dredge 2 table- spoonfuls of curry powder and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour over the fried ingredients, and pour in the stock, first straining it; then add 1 saltspoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon, and keep the whole simmering gently for fifteen minutes. When ready, pour the soup Rabbits—continued. into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a dish of plain boiled rice. Rabbit with Olives.—Clean a nice large Rabbit, cut it into about ten pieces, put them into a stewpan with some chopped fat bacon and a small lump of butter, and fry them until lightly browned. Drain the fat off the pieces of Rabbit, and moisten them to height with nicely-flavoured stock ; add a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Let it simmer gently at the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Blanch and stone 1 handful of French olives. Strain the cooking-liquor of the Rabbits and free it from all fat; put loz. of butter and 4-oz. of flour into a clean stewpan, mix them over the fire, then pour in the strained liquor, and stir until boiling. Put the olives and pieces of Rabbit Fig. 346. Rabbit with Olives into the sauce, and let the whole simmer for a few minutes. Turn the Rabbit with the olives and sauce on to a hot dish, and serve it with a plate of cut lemons (see Fig. 340). Rabbit-and Oyster Pie.—Select a nice plump Ostend Rabbit, cut it into pieces, and season them well with pepper, grated lemon-peel, and finely-minced parsley. Beard three dozen oysters, drain them, saving their liquor, and put them with the Rabbit. Line the edge of a buttered dish with a crust, fill it with the Rabbit and oysters, put in a few small pieces of butter, and moisten with b pint of chablis and the liquor of the oysters. Cover the pie with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven for a little over an hour. Serve either hot or cold. Rabbit Panache.—Clean two Rabbits, take out their livers and kidneys, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and cook them over a slow fire until tender. Blanch the Rabbits in plenty of boiling water, then put them into a saucepan with an onion stuck with four or five cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay-leaf; pour in sufficient cold water to cover the Rabbits, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew them gently at the side of the fire until tender. When the Rabbits are cooked, cut the flesh off the backs and legs into nice pieces, and scrape the remainder off the bones. Soak |oz. of gelatine in a small quantity of water, put it into the saucepan with the Rabbit liquor, together with the bones, heads, and necks, and two or three rashers of ham or bacon. Boil the liquor until reduced to 1 pint, taking out the rashers when they are cooked. Finely chop the scraped pieces of Rabbit, and mix an equal quantity of finely- chopped bacon with it, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and half that quantity of thyme, seasoning the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix in sufficient beaten egg to bind it to a stiff paste, divide it into small quantities, and roll them into balls. Put the balls in the saucepan with the other ingredients, boil them for ten minutes, then itake them out. Strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, pour a small quantity of it into a deep mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and leave it until set. Arrange, in some fancy design in the mould, the pieces of Rabbit, the balls, the bacon, livers and kidneys, and a few hard-boiled eggs cut into halves. They should not be too closely packed, and should be placed so that the colours will contrast as much as possible. When the mould is full, season the remainder of the liquor with lemon-juice or vinegar to give it a piquant taste, and pour it carefully over the Rabbit and other ingredients. Pack the mould in ice, or stand it in a cool place for several hours until the contents are quite - firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water,