THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 404 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads, Sausages—continued. power; from the little family machine (see Pig. 470), which is so useful for many purposes, to the giant machine which is capable of chopping up whole pigs one after the other, and turning out some tons of Sausages in a given time. For small trade purposes a minor hut very compact machine may be used with a single and effective action (see Fig. 471); Fig. 470. Family Sausage-machine (A. Lyon). and for a larger trade a machine fitted with double-action cutters, and in each instance worked by a manual crank, would be sufficient (see Fig. 471). The old story of the Sausage-maker who suddenly disappeared, and whose fate was only known by the appearance of a button in a Sausage some time after is, perhaps, an exaggeration, but there can be no doubt that all sorts of meat are supplied to these makers, and that when pork is dear or otherwise unavailable, some- thing must be found at a price to suit the market. Farmers can always sell their cows and sheep which they have been obliged to kill, if they are tolerably meaty, and within a given distance of a large market, although there may be a penalty for exposing it for sale; but there being no Fig. 471. Small Sausage-machine for Wholesale Use (A. Lyon). facility for examining the premises of the Sausage-maker, his business reputation is the sole guarantee to those who deal with him.” That they are honestly served with good meat an authority says: “ It may answer the purpose of a little Sausage-maker to smuggle into his cellar all sorts of trash, but on a large scale it would be utterly impossible to do this,” and we are quite disposed from experience to believe it. Approved receipts for making various kinds of Sausages, together with a full account of the seasonings to be used, will be found hereunder. It is only necessary to add that it is better to under- rather than over-season, and that a careful use of salt and pepper is indispensable. The meat should be coarsely chopped before putting it into the mincing machine, and all stringy parts and gristle removed. The seasoning must be added before mincing, and when herbs are used they should be finely chopped and cleared of stalk. If dried herbs are used it is advisable to soak the sprigs, sprays, or leaves in scald- Sausages—continued. ing water for an hour or so, and then chop them as if they were fresh leaves. Unless very finely divided before pass- ing through the machine they are likely to be in large pieces and irregularly distributed. Prepare the skins for holding the Sausages by scalding and soaking, turning inside out, and thoroughly cleansing. Fig. 472. Double-action Sausage-machine for Wholesale Use (A. Lyon). Whilst still wet thread the skins on the filling tube, and, as the machine minces and mixes the meat with seasoning it will automatically fill the skins. The divisions in length are made by pinching and twisting at the desired points. Sausages may be made of cooked meat, and then dried or smoked according to taste. See also Black Pud- dings, Forcemeat, Polonies, &c. Bath Sausages.—Chop very fine lib. of beef-suet, first skinning it well; cut lib. of lean meat from a leg of pork, take all skin and sinew from it, and finely mince also. Then mix the pork with the suet, pound them together in a mortar, season with a little salt, plenty of pepper, and a little finely-chopped sage, mix in 2 heaped table-spoon- fuls of sifted breadcrumbs, and work all well together with the yolks of two eggs. This Sausage-meat will keep for some time if closely pressed down in an earthenware jar. When required for use, form it into rolls the shape and size of ordinary Sausages, dredge them well with flour, and fry them in a hot frying-pan over a clear fire. No dripping or lard need be put in the pan, their own fat will he sufficient. If, instead of being floured, they are dipped in egg and rolled in breadcrumbs, they must he fried in boiling lard or dripping. Black Forest Sausages.—These Sausages are mostly made of wild swine pork, hut the swine of any country can be used provided they are fully grown and fed on acorns. Use the lean parts of the pork, chopping it almost to a paste; for every 51b. of the lean, use lib. of solid fat, which cut into small squares. For every 51b. of the mince, season it with 2Joz. of salt, Joz. of coarsely-ground black pepper, and a very small quantity each of saltpetre and finely-ground cloves. Work the seasoning in well with the minced lean meat, then add the fat. Stuff the mixture tightly into well-cleaned ox-skins, tie them into lengths about §yd- _ long, secure them firmly at each end, and hind them all