THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 317 for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Heed-birds—continued. Reed-bird Pie.—Pluck and dress the birds, leaving them whole, and stuff them either with veal and ham, bread- crumbs, or oysters. Line an earthenware baking-dish with a good rich paste. Put the birds into the dish in layers, allowing to each dozen birds 1 table-spoonful each of flour and butter, 1 wineglassful of wine or 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, and a rather high seasoning of salt, pepper, and powdered spice. Cover the birds with paste, wetting the edges of the crust to make the cover adhere. Make a few incisions in the crust to permit the escape of steam while the pie is baking, brush it with beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven until evenly browned. Roasted Reed-birds.—Procure twelve freshly-killed, fine’ fat Reed-birds, cut off their legs and wings, pick the eyes out, remove the skin from the heads, clean and wipe them neatly, and with a skewer remove the gizzards from the sides; then cover their breasts lightly with thin slices of bacon, arrange them on three small skewers, four on each, and lay them in a roasting-pan; season with 1 pinch Fig. 371. Roasted Reed-birds. of salt, spread over a very little butter, and set them in the oven to roast for seven minutes. Place them on a hot dish on pieces of toast, garnish with watercress (see Fig. 371), and serve immediately. Refrigerating—continued. very rarely used in the kitchen, the result obtained from ' ice being considered preferable. Meat and other foods are preserved during the hot weather by a system of refrigeration, or storing in cham- bers kept cold by ice (see Fig. 372). Confectioners use Refrigeration for setting jellies and freezing ices but all these are sufficiently described under other headings. REGATTA CARE.—See Cakes. REGENCY SAUCES (a la Regence). — See Satjces. REGENCY SOUP (k la Regence).—See Soups. REGENT PUNCH.—See Punch. REINDEER TONGUES.—As an article of food the flesh of the reindeer is said to be equal to our best venison, but as it is not obtainable in this country it would be superfluous to give receipts for its preparation. The tongues, however, salted and dried, are brought into this country in small quantities, the tongues of other deer being frequently substituted for them. The following is the best way to prepare them for the table ; Put two or three dried Reindeer Tongues into a bowl of cold water, soak them for three hours, and then dry them in the air. Repeat this operation twice more. Scrape the tongues very clean, put them into a saucepan of cold water, and bring it slowly to the boiling-point; then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer the contents gently for about two hours. Take out the tongues, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. REFECTION.—A term used generally to signify a lunch or repast. REFECTORY.—The name given to dining-halls of monasteries or convents. REFORM SAUCE.—See Sauces. REFRIGERATING.—This term is applied to any process by which the temperature of an article is lowered. Fig. 372. Refrigerator (A. Lyon). For this purpose the cook uses ice, which is contained in an ice-chest, ice-room, or other form of refrigerator, of which there are many designs. Freezing-mixtures are RELISHES.—See Sauces. REMOULADE.—This name is given to a salad dress- ing. taking its meaning from the verb remouler—to grind, referring to t he process by which the hard-boiled yolks of eggs are worked down with oil and other things.—See Sauces. REMOVES.—This name is usually applied to large dishes, such as joints, &c., which occupy the principal place on the table. RENNET.—Sometimes spelt Runnet. It is the name given to the salted dried fourth stomach of the calf. When taken from the animal after it is killed it is freed from the outer skin, fat, and superfluous mem- brane, and well washed. It resembles a piece of parch- ment, and is commonly known as veil. Cooley tells us that “Rennet is employed to curdle milk. A piece of the requisite size is cut off and soaked for some hours in whey or water, after which the whole is added to the milk for curdling, slightly warmed, and the mixture is slowly heated, if necessary, to about 122deg. Fahr. In a short time, after this temperature has been attained, the milk separates into a solid white coagulum (curd), and into a yellowish translucent liquid (whey). Two square inches from the bottom of a good veil are sufficient for a cheese of sixty pounds. It is the gastric juice of the stomach that operates these changes. The stomachs of all sucking quadrupeds possess the same properties.” Rennet has a powerful digestive virtue, of which medical men avail themselves for administering in the form of wine to dyspeptics. Essence of Rennet is fre- quently used instead of the ordinary veil; it is prepared as follows : Cut up very small lib. of fresh calf's stomachs, dust them over with about 3oz. of common salt, and work them well together with the hands. Leave this, with what juice exudes, in a cool place for five or six weeks. At the end of that time, pour into the vessel containing the Rennet 1 pint of soft water and 1 wineglassful of proof spirits or good rum. Leave this to digest for a couple of days, then