228 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saucest dsc., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. of the Potato so closely that there is hardly any trimming required afterwards. They will also peel carrots, turnips, radishes, oranges, or lemons. Baked Potatoes.—(J) Put lib. or 21b. of Potatoes as nearly of a size as possible into a bowl of water and scrub them well, take them out, wipe them dry on a cloth, put them in a hot oven, and bake for an hour, by which time they should be quite soft and mealy. Fold them in a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 288), and serve with butter and seasoning. (2) Peel and wash the Potatoes, which should be large, and cut them into slices about Jin. thick; spread a layer of them on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven and can be served at table, spread plenty of butter over them, cover with another layer, and so on until all are used, allowing about fib. of butter for each pound of Potatoes; dust them over with salt and pepper, and bake them in a good oven until tender. When the Potatoes are cooked, garnish round them with a border of fried parsley, and serve very hot. (3) Well wash and peel 2qts. of Potatoes, cut them up in rather thick slices, and put them in a baking-pan. Add a little of the green part of an onion, a small lump of butter, salt to taste, and pour in a little less than Jgall. of milk. Put the baking-pan in a very slow oven at first, gradually increasing the heat, and let the slices of Potatoes remain in the pan until the milk is nearly all dried up or has the appearance of cream, and it as well as the Potatoes are well browned on the top. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Baked Potatoes with Breadcrumbs.—Peel and boil lib. or so of Potatoes, mash them, and pass them through a sieve. Pile them on a dish in the form of a small cone, sprinkle them over with breadcrumbs, and pour over the breadcrumbs a little warmed butter; set the dish in the oven, and let it remain for a few minutes until the breadcrumbs are well browned. (A salamander may be used instead of baking if desired.) Take out the dish, which should be the one in which the Potatoes are to be served, and the puree is ready for use. Boiled New Potatoes.—Put lib. or so of new Potatoes into a bowl of water, scrape off the thin skins, and wash them. Drop them as they are skinned and washed into another bowl of water, and let them remain for an hour' or so. Take them out, put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, set the pan on the fire, Potatoes—continued. and boil gently from fifteen to thirty minutes. Drain off the water and let them dry in the saucepan for a few minutes, turn them into a vegetable-dish, fold them in a napkin (see Fig. 289), and serve. Boiled Potatoes.—(1) Take twelve medium-sized Potatoes, wash them thoroughly, peel off a piece of the skin Jin. wide round each Potato to ensure mealiness, and lay them in a saucepan, covering them with cold water and adding J handful of salt; place the lid on and cook for twenty-five or thirty minutes. Drain, lay on a napkin placed on a hot dish in which you envelop the Potatoes, and serve. (2) Peel and cut into dice, |in. or Jin. thick, about lib. of Potatoes, put them into a saucepan of boiling water suffi- cient to cover them, and let them boil till tender. Take them out, skin them, return them to the saucepan without the water, add butter with flour worked into it, in pro- portion to the quantity of Potatoes, boil up once more, add a little chopped parsley, pepper them, and serve. Broiled Potatoes.—Peel six medium-sized cooked Pota- toes, cut them in halves, lay them on a dish, and season them with a pinch of salt. Pour 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter over them and roll them well in it. Arrange them on a double broiler, and broil them on a moderate fire for three minutes on each side. Place them in a hot dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Browned Potatoes.—(I) Peel and wash some Potatoes, and either boil or steam for a-quarter-of-an-hour or so. They must always be boiled or partly boiled before browning, as otherwise the outer crust would be very indigestible and the inner parts uncooked. Take them out of the saucepan, drain, put them into a baking-dish with a little fat or dripping, set the dish in the oven, and bake gently for about forty minutes, basting them frequently. Take them out when done and well browned, drain off all the fat, put them in a vegetable-dish, and serve. (2) Boil the Potatoes for a-quarter-of-an-hour or so, sprinkle them well over with flour, and put them in the dripping-pan about an hour before the meat is done. When taken out, all the grease or fat must be strained off before being served. As the addition of cold Potatoes would lower the temperature under the meat, add them whilst hot from boiling. Casserole of Potatoes.—Boil lib. or 21b. of Potatoes, and when done take them out and mash them. Make them into a stiff paste by adding a little butter and cream and a slight sprinkling of salt, and form it into a casserole. Put it on a dish, make an opening in the centre, brown it in the oven, and it is ready for use. Chip Potatoes.—Peel and wash a dozen or so of rather small Potatoes, divide them into pieces resembling the sections of an orange, and plunge them into a basin of water. Take them out, dry them on a cloth, put them in a frying-pan with melted fat to a little more than half their height, and let them fry until they are partly done and begin to float. Skim out the Potatoes, set the pan on a fiercer fire, and when the fat is smoking hot return the Potatoes to it and fry until the pieces blow them- selves out and are quite brown. Take them out, drain off all the fat from them, dust over -with salt, and serve in a vegetable-dish. Creamed Potatoes.—Cut Jib. of cold-boiled Potatoes into small cubes or dice about Jin. in diameter, put them into a shallow baking-pan, pour over sufficient milk or cream to cover them, put the pan in the oven or on the side of the fire, and cook gently until nearly all the milk is absorbed. Then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoon- ful each of finely-chopped parsley and salt, and J salt- spoonful of pepper, and mix thoroughly. When the whole are thoroughly warmed turn them into a vegetable-dish, and serve at once. Curried Potatoes.—(1) Have ready boiled lib. or 21b. of Potatoes, leave them until cold, and then cut them into slices. The Potatoes should be rather underdone than overdone. Peel and slice a couple of onions, put them in a stewpan with a large lump of butter, and fry them