TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 372 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. Toasted Kippered Salmon.—Toast the Salmon in front of a clear fire, put it in a basin, the skin side downwards, and pour some boiling water over it, repeating the opera- tion once or twice. Put the Salmon on a hot dish, spread some butter over it, and place it in front of the fire for a minute or two. Garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve very hot. Tinned Salmon.—In consequence of the high price of fresh Salmon, as sold in our markets, certain enterprising persons conceived the idea of preserving pieces of Salmon in hermetically closed tins, as in many parts of America Salmon is plentiful and cheap, and the fish suffers little from preserving; it is largely used in this country. The following receipts are specially suitable for Tinned Salmon: Puree of Tinned Salmon.—Boil one onion in lqt. of milk for ten minutes. Take the onion out, thicken the milk with ‘2 table-spoonfuls of Hour and 1 table-spoonful of butter that have heen cooked together, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Remove the bones, skin, and oil, from half a tin of Salmon, and chop the meat very fine. Mix the Salmon with the milk, stir it over the fire till very hot, turn the puree on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Tinned Salmon with Cucumber Sauce.—Take the Salmon out of the tin and put it into a basin with loz. of butter; stand the basin in a saucepan of hot water by the side of the fire to heat the Salmon, cai’e being taken not to let the water enter the basin. Pour the liquor from the tin of Salmon into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of coarsely-chopped cucumber, b table-spoon- ful of chopped onion, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, I table-spoon- ful of vinegar, b table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and b pint of milk. Season with pepper and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Place the sauce over the fire until boiling, then put in JjOz. of butter that has been kneaded with \ teaspoonful of flour. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened. When the Salmon is hot, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Tinned-Salmon-and-Custard Pudding.—Take the Salmon out of a tin and place it in a thickly-buttered pie- dish. Put three eggs into a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of anchovy sauce, beat them well, pour in 1 pint of milk and the liquor out of the tin of Salmon, season with pepper and a small quantity of ground mace, and stir the mixture over the fire until thickened, but not boiling. Pour the custard over the Salmon, put a few small lumps of butter on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. In about forty minutes’ time the pudding should be sufficiently baked; serve while hot. Tinned-Salmon-and-Egg Patties.—Boil four eggs until hard, peel them, and put them into a mortar with 1 heaped teacupful of grated breadcrumb, 1 table-spoonful each of anchovy sauce and salad-oil, b table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and the liquor from a tin of Salmon. Add a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pound the mixture until smooth. Butter some patty-pans, and line them with some of the mixture; put about 1 table-spoon- ful of Salmon in each, and cover with the remainder of the paste mixture. Strew breadcrumbs over the top, put a small lump of butter in each, and bake the patties in a brisk oven until browned on the top. Spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, turn the patties out of the tins on to it, and garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 443); or they are very nice served cold garnished with fresh parsley. Salmon—continued. Tinned-Salmon-and-Egg Pudding.—Put lib. of Tinned Salmon into a mortar with four hard-boiled eggs, 1 tea- cupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 1 table-spoonful each of anchovy sauce, chilli vinegar, and salad-oil, the juice of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Pound the mixture well, add the liquor from the Tinned Salmon, and if too stiff a few drops of milk may also be added. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, and press it down; tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and put the basin into a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height. Care must he taken not to let the water enter the basin. Steam the pudding for an hour, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned Salmon in Jelly.—Put the liquor from a tin of Salmon into a stewpan, with 1 breakfast-cupful of water and loz. of soaked and strained gelatine; stir it over the fire until the gelatine has dissolved, then put in 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped onion, a few gum pastilles, 1 saltspoonful of pounded mace, and 1 saltspoonful of powdered cloves. Boil the mixture gently for ten minutes, then put in 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, b wineglassful of chilli vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Rinse out a mould with cold water, and put the Salmon out of the tin in it with a few hard-boiled eggs that have been cut into quarters lengthwise. Strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve over the Salmon, and stand the mould in a cold place. When set, turn the jelly out on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, and serve. Tinned-Salmon-and-Lobster Pie.—Take the fish out of a small tin of lobster and the same of Salmon, and put it into a thickly-buttered pie-dish : pour the liquor out of the tins into a stewpan. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin and mix it smooth with 1 teacupful of milk, then pour it in with the fish-liquor, and add 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, \ table-spoonful of grated lemon- peel, a small quantity of pepper, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened and boiling, then pour it over the fish. Put a strip of puff paste round the rim of the pie-dish, cover with a flat of the same paste, trim it off round the edges, moisten them slightly with water, and press together. Put the pie in a brisk oven and bake for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, stand the pre-dish on a flat dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish- paper, and serve while hot. Tinned-Salmon-and-Macaroni Pie.—Put 4oz. of macaroni into a stewpan with b table-spoonful of finely-minced onion, 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar, b table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, 1 teaspoonful of sugar; b saltspoonful each of ground mace and nutmeg, a small quantity of pepper, and loz. of butter. Pour in the liquor from a tin of Salmon and f pint of water. Boil the macaroni slowly until tender. Butter a -pie-dish, put in the Salmon, and pour the macaroni over it; strew grated breadcrumb on the top, and place a few small pieces of butter here and there. Put it in a brisk oven, and bake until browned on the top. Serve either hot or cold. Tinned-Salmon-and-Oyster Pudding.—Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir it over the fire until well mixed, then put in % table- spoonful of finely-chopped onions, 1 teacupful of milk, the liquor from a small tin of oysters, 1 saltspoonful of ground mace, and pepper and salt to taste. Stir the sauce oyer the fire until thick and boiling, then move it to the side and add 1 table-spoonful of chilli vinegar and a few drops of essence of anchovies. Strain the liquor of a tin of Salmon into a saucepan, mix 1 pint of milk with it, and boil. Thickly butter a pie-dish, put in the Salmon with the oysters round it, pour in the sauce, and strew finely- grated breadcrumb over the top. Stir three well-beaten eggs into the boiling milk-and-Salmon liquor, season it with salt, pepper, a small quantity of powdered mace, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, and pour it over the Salmon and oysters. Put a few small pieces of butter on ' the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. In