398 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. (4) Put the trimmings and some pieces of cold cooked fowl into a saucepan with one onion, 4oz. of butter, a slice of ham, two cloves, and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and stir over the fire till a light glaze is formed at the bottom of the saucepan; then pour in lqt. of light broth, and boil it gently at the side of the fire till reduced to one- tliird of its original bulk. Skim the Sauce well, strain it through a broth-napkin into another saucepan, add \ pint of bdcliamel Sauce and stir it over a sharp lire till it coats the spoon. Mix 1 teacupful of cream and a little sugar with the Sauce, strain it again through a broth- napkin, and use it when required. (5) Put 1 pint of fresh mushrooms and some trimmings of truffles into a stewpan with J pint of clear white stock, and boil them for fifteen minutes. Strain the liquor, return it to the stewpan with 2:j breakfast-cupfuls of veloute Sauce, and boil it slowly at the edge of the lire for twenty minutes longer, skimming frequently. Next mix with the Sauce 1 table-spoonful of cream and loz. of butter broken up into small bits. When the butter has dissolved, the Sauce is ready for serving. Tartar Sauce (Tartare).—(1) Beat together the yolks of two eggs, 1 teacupful of oil, and 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar; when well beaten, add 1 table-spoonful of mustard, 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of chopped capers, the same quantity of chopped cucumber pickles, the juice of an onion, and \ saltspoonful of pepper. This Sauce can be used with meats served in jelly, also fried and broiled meats and fish. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful each of mustard, shallot vinegar, chilli vinegar, claret, and 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey’s Sauce into a basin, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the ingredients till well mixed and hot. (3) Put 1 teacupful of vinegar into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped onions, and boil it for a few minutes; then put in loz. of butter and the yolks of four eggs, and beat them over the fire till the Sauce is thick and like softened butter, but do not let it boil. Take the Sauce off the fire, and beat in gradually 1 4 table- spoonfuls of olive oil; add salt, cayenne pepper, and a little minced gherkins, and serve. (4) Put a little more than 4 teacupful of bechamel Sauce into a basin with the yolks of two eggs, season with a little grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and mix well; then stir in, drop by drop, some olive oil till the Sauce is thick and creamy. Add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped tarragon, chervil, and shallot, and 2 table-spoon- fuls of tarragon vinegar. Serve the Sauce when ready. (5) Mash the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, mix with it the raw yolks of two eggs, season with pepper and salt, and stir them with a wooden spoon; then pour in very slowly, drop by drop, 1 pint of salad-oil, continuing to stir all the time, and adding occasionally a little tarragon vinegar. The Sauce should be rather thick. Mix with it 1 table- spoonful of chopped gherkins, J table-spoonful of chopped capers, 4 table-spoonful each of chopped shallots and chopped parsley, and a small quantity each of mustard, salt, pepper, and sugar. Mix the Sauce well, and serve it. (6) Put into a small basin 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and Worcestershire Sauce, 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix well together; then stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir them over the fire till hot. Put fib. of butter into a small frying-pan, and brown it; then strain it into the Sauce, and serve while hot. Toulouse Sauce.—(1) Prepar-e some rather thick German Sauce, then mix with it a ragout of cocks’ combs, fat livers, kidneys, mushrooms, and small quenelles, &c. Stir the Sauce till well mixed, then serve it while hot. (2) Put into a stewpan eighteen or nineteen cloves of garlic that have been peeled and boiled in salted water, add a little butter or fat, and fry them till nicely browned. Pour 1 pint of broth in with the garlic, and boil it gently till reduced to half. Dry a piece of crumb of bread in the oven, and pound it. Thicken the Sauce with 1 tea- cupful of the pounded bread, add the pulp of two Seville • oranges cut into slices and freed of the peel and seeds, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Mix a little rich I Sauces—continued. gravy with the Sauce, skim off all the fat, strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve it. (3) To 1 pint of Dutch Sauce add 2 table-spoonfuls of white wine, one sliced truffle, and six minced mushrooms. Heat well without boiling, and when serving add a little meat glaze. Transparent Sauce.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of cornflour with 1 teacupful of sugar in a saucepan, then stir in \ pint of boiling water, and add half a lemon cut into slices and a small piece of butter. Stir the Sauce over the fire, and boil it till transparent. It is then ready for serving with fritters. Valois Sauce.—Chop two shallots, put them into a sauce- pan with 1 wineglassful of vinegar, and boil them until the moisture has entirely evaporated; then leave them till cold. Add the beaten yolks of five eggs and 1 table- spoonful of butter, and stir the whole over the fire for two minutes. Take the saucepan off the fire, put in another table-spoonful of butter, and stir over the fire again. Add loz. of chicken glaze cut into small pieces, another table-spoonful of butter, and mix them thoroughly off the fire. Place the saucepan on the fire, put in 1 table-spoonful each of butter and chopped parsley, and when well mixed serve. Veloute Sauce.—See Velvet Sauce. Velvet Sauce (Veloute).—(1) Put 31b. of fillet of veal and one hen with the fillets removed into a buttered saucepan with one sliced onion and 7 pints of stock, and let them boil. Skim the fat off the stock, add one large carrot, one bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and J salt- spoonful each of sugar and pepper. Cook the meat gently by the side of the fire, then take out the veal and hen. Strain the stock through a fine hair sieve, and skim off all the fat. Put into another stewpan 7oz. each of butter and flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, but do not brown it; then pour in the stock gradually, and con- tinue stirring it over the fire till boiling. Put the lid on the stewpan, draw it to the side of the fire, and let the liquor simmer for an-hour-and-a-half, skimming the fat off occasionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and put it by for use. (2) Mix in equal quantities some stock and Sauce tournee, and boil them till stiffly reduced. Boil some cream till reduced to three-parts its original bulk, then mix it with the reduced Sauce, and boil them all together for a few minutes. Season the Sauce with salt to taste, and strain it through a broth-napkin. A little sugar may be added with the Sauce if desired; it should be kept thin. (3) Put 41b. of fish (any kind of white-fleshed fish will do) into a saucepan with one large onion, one carrot, two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt and pepper, and 1 pint of French white wine. Put the lid on, and let the contents simmer very gently for a-quarter-of-an- liour; then pour in 2qts. of water, and boil it. Skim the fat off the liquor, and let it simmer gently till the fish is tender; then strain it through a broth-napkin. Put 6oz. of butter and 6oz. of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed, but not browned; then mix in the Sauce, and stir it over the fire for fifteen minutes, or till somewhat reduced. When strained through a broth- napkin the Sauce is ready for use. (4) Melt loz. of good butter in a saucepan, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir well, not letting it get brown. Moisten with 1| pints of good veal-and chicken stock, the stronger the better, throw in a bouquet of aromatic herbs, \ breakfast-cupful of mushroom liquor or ketchup, six whole peppers, J pinch of salt, and a very little nutmeg, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring con- tinuously with a wooden spatula; then remove to the side of the fire, skim thoroughly, and let it continue simmer- ing slowly for an hour; then rub it through a fine sieve. This Sauce will make the foundation for any kind of good white stock. Venetian Sance (a la Venitienne).—Reduce for four minutes 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and chervil vinegar with six whole peppers, loz. of lean cooked ham cut into small dice, six parsley-roots, one sprig of thyme,