347 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Roses—continued. syrup. Try a small quantity of the mixture on a plate, and if it sets it is cooked. Remove it from the (ire, leave till cold, then pour it into preserve jars; cover them air-tight, and keep in a rather cool cupboard. Rose liqueur. -Put 1 j-lb. of bruised petals of Roses into a large jar or bottle with foz. of ground cinnamon and joz. of bruised fennel-seed; pour over 9J pints of spirits of wine GOdeg. over proof, and keep the jar in a warm [dace for a month, giving it a shake daily. Pour oft' the spirits, add to the jar 7J pints of water, let it stand for a few days, pour it into the spirit, add 3J pints of capillaire and a little red colouring, stir well, filter through a flannel bag, and bottle. Rose Lozenges.—Sift some crushed loaf sugar over a marble slab, make a cavity in the centre, and pour in sufficient dissolved gum to make a thick paste. Half a pound of gum arabic should be dissolved in 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Add a flavouring of essence of Roses and a colour- ing of ground cochineal wetted with water, and roll out the paste to about Jin. in thickness. Dust it over with starch powder and caster sugar, and with the palm of the hand smooth the surface. Cut it into lozenge-shaped pieces, put them on trays in the dry-closet or on the stove until dry, pack them away in boxes, and use as required. Rose Souffles.—Sift Jib. of sugar into a basin and work in the white of an egg, beating well for fully ten minutes. Now add a few drops of essence of Roses and sufficient carmine to give it a bright Rose colour. Dust the board well with sifted sugar, roll out the paste on it, and cut it into strips the thickness of a linger; cut them into dice, and roll them round in the palm of the hand. Moisten slightly with water, put each one into a paper case, fin. hi width and Jin. in height, wet the finger, and slightly press down the toj>. Put them into a slack oven, and when about Jin. over the cases (this will take about fifteen minutes) take them out, but not before the surfaces are quite dry, and they are ready for use. Rose Syrup.—(1) Boil 411). of loaf sugar in 2qts. of cold water to a clear syrup, work in the beaten whites of four eggs, let it boil again, take it from the fire, let it cool, and as it cools skim it. When the syrup has cooled to lukewarm, scatte over it 11b. of fresh Rose-petals, cover it closely, and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Strain it then, and put in another pound of fresh Rose-petals and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Strain it again, and add for the third time 111), of fresh Rose-petals, letting it stand as before for twenty-four hours. Strain it through muslin, add lqt. of the best brandy, strain it through a double linen bag, and bottle. This syrup mixed with ice water is a nice summer drink. It is also useful for flavouring custards, creams, &c. (2) Pour 1J pints of water into a very clean saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in about lib. Goz. of freshly-gathered Rose-petals. Boil them up once, then take the saucepan off the fire, put the lid on, and leave the contents until cold. Pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and add 2-flb. of caster sugar and the well-beaten white of one egg. Stir | the mixture, place it over the fire until boiling, then take l it oft, skim it well, and leave until nearly cold. Pass the syrup through a silk sieve or a piece of cloth, pour it into a bottle, cork it tightly, and put it by for use. Rose-water Cake. -Mix 1 teaspoonful of egg-powder in Jib. of flour, then rub in until quite smooth 2oz. of lard. Add Jib. of caster sugar and 1 heaped teaspoonful of ground almonds. Separate the yolk and white of an egg, and beat the yolk with J- teacupful of milk, 1 wineglassful of Rose-wate:, and lastly the well-whisked white of the egg. Stir the liquid mixture in with the dry ingredients and mix it well. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a quick oven. In about an hour’s time the cake should be sufficiently baked, then turn it out of the tin. Less Rose-water can be used if a strong flavour is not liked. Rose Water Ice. -Prepare an ice mixture with the zest of three lemons and the strained juice of seven; add a little Roses—continued. water and 3 teacupfuls of simple syrup, flavour with a few drops of essence of Roses, and colour with cochineal. When mixed the preparation must be frozen, and can be moulded or not as desired. ROSE CAKE.—See Cakes. ROSE COLOUR.—See Carmine. ROSEMARY.—A garden herb (Rosmarinus officinalis), the leaves of which are sometimes used as a culinary herb, but of late years it has gone considerably out of date. ROSOLIOS.—A name given by Francatelli to little sweets strongly flavoured with coffee, and made in the shape of coffee-berries. There is also a liqueur called Rosolio [see Cordials and Liqueurs). Stick some coffee-berries with gum paste a short distance from each other on a piece of flat board, the rounded side of the berries to be stuck to the wood, presenting the open part of the berries outwardly. When they are dry and (ixed tightly on, the contrivance can be used for making coffee-berry impressions in a tray of carefully levelled starch-powder (Amydon). Boil some sugar to the hall (see Sugar-boiling), work in a small quantity of maraschino, and colour small quantities of the sugar with various colours. Make the coffee-berry impressions in the starch, and pour in the coloured sugar from a very small spoon a little at a time. The syrup will form the round of the berry naturally. Boil the sugar to the crack, and dilute to the feather degree with a strong extract of coffee. ROSQUILLAS.—A sweet Spanish cake made in the form of a spiral or any other fancy shape. The follow- ing is a very good receipt for their manufacture: Put the yolks of two dozen eggs into a bowl, and beat them up with lib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, sprinkling in about 1 dessert-spoonful of grains of aniseed. Dredge in flour to form a stittish paste, and let it stand for awhile; then roll it out moderately thin, cut it into any spiral or other desired shape with a sharp knife or a plain or fancy biscuit-cutter, and bake to a good colour in a moderate oven. When done, ice them with white of egg and sugar, dry them in the hot-closet or at the mouth of the oven, and serve. ROTTERDAM SOUP—See Soups. ROUEN DUCKS.—See Ducks. ROUT.—The meaning of this word, according to its modern acceptation, is a fashionable assembly. Accord- ing to Skeat, the word is derived from the Latin rwpta (pp. of raptus, broken, from rumpere). This Latin word nipt a came to mean a fragment of an army, a troop, etc. Its adaptation is therefore sufficiently obvious. ROUT BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. ROUT CAKES.—See Biscuits. ROUX.—The literal meaning of this term is russet. It is simply flour and butter fried together, and used for thickening and colouring soups and gravies. There are two kinds, one brown, and the other white, which are made as follows: Brown Roux.—Place 2oz. of good butter in a saucepan on the hot range, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook rapidly for about seven minutes, or until it assumes a rich brown colour. Let it thoroughly cool off, and then it may be used in different sauces as directed. White Roux. -Put in a sau epan 2oz. of butter, place it on (he corner of the hot range, and add to it 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour. Keep sti ring constantly for seven minutes, but do not let it brown Then let it cool, and when cold it may be used in various sauces as directed.