386 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. an hour. When strained, the Sauce will be ready for serving. Bechamel Sauce.—(1) Put into a saucepan half an onion, 3 table-spoonfuls of butter that has been worked with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, a large slice of carrot, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay-leaf, tied together, a small piece of mace, a little salt and grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of white stock. When boiling set the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the Sauce simmer for thirty minutes, stirring frequently. When cooked, mix with the Sauce 4 pint of cream, boil it up again, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (2) Put lqt. of highly-seasoned stock into a saucepan and boil it quickly till reduced to 1 pint. Put 2oz. of butter and 2oz. of flour into another saucepan and stir them over the fire till well mixed; when the butter begins to bubble, strain the stock into it, and continue stilling while it cooks. Mix with the Sauce 1 pint of cream and 2oz. more butter; beat it over the fire till on the point of boiling, tlien take the Sauce off, and serve it. (3) Put into a saucepan tlb. of chopped veal, ^lb. of chopped lean ham, one chopped onion, one shallot, a stick of celery, half a stick of mace, four mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 pint of water; season with cayenne pepper and salt, and boil all for twenty minutes, then pour in I pint of milk, and continue boiling for about half-an-hour longer. Mix 4 teacupful of flour to a smooth paste with a little milk, then stir it into the Sauce. Stir the Sauce over the fire until the flour is cooked, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (4) Boil 1 pint of white Sauce, then mix with it 1 pint of boiling cream; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil them up again. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (5) Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed; then pour in gradually 1 pint of white stock, and continue stirring over the fire till boiling. Add seven or eight peeled mushrooms, put the lid half on the saucepan, and let the Sauce simmer for twenty minutes, skimming off the butter as it rises. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, put it into another saucepan, mix in 4 pint of cream and the juice of half a lemon, stir it over the fire, and let it boil for five or six minutes ; then pour the Sauce into a basin, and continue stirring it till cold. Mix some aspic jelly with the Sauce if used for making a cliaud- froid. (6) Put 41b. of flour into a basin, and mix it to a smooth batter with § pint of milk ; turn it into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire till it begins to thicken, then work it well while pouring in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk. Add 5 table-spoonfuls of chopped raw ham, two small onions, a bunch of well-washed parsley, a few peppercorns, and pepper and salt to taste. When boiling, stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the con- tents simmer for twenty minutes, stirring them occa- sionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (7) Cut a small fillet of veal into little pieces, and put them into a saucepan with two sliced onions, two sliced carrots, and fib. of butter; fry them lightly, but do not brown them, add 6oz. of flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, then put in about |lb. of mushrooms cut into slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, 3qts. of stock, and lqt. of cream, and dust in a little pepper and salt. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till boiling, then move the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for two hours, skimming off the fat as it rises. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve into a clean saucepan, put in with it f pint of cream, and boil it quickly till reduced to a thick consistency. Turn the Sauce into a basin, and stir it with a spoon till cold. (8) Put 2oz. of butter with some finely-chopped parsley and chives into a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of flour that has been mixed with a little cream, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir the Sauce over the fire till thick, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Sauces—continued. Berlin Sauce.—Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped teaspoonful of flour; stir these over the fire until mixed, then mix in slowly 4 pint of milk. When it boils, move it to the side of the fire and stir in gradually four eggs that have been beaten with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, 4 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 pinch of finely-chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Do not boil the Sauce again. It is ready for serving when the eggs have thickened. Beyrout Sauce (a la Beyrouth—Put 1 table-spoonful each of common vinegar, chilli vinegar, and chopped onions into a saucepan, add 1;} pints of melted butter, 1 teacup- ful of brown Sauce, and 4 teacupful each of mushroom ketchup and Harvey’s Sauce; stir the above ingredients over the fire till boiling, then move them to the side, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Skim the Sauce, place it over the fire again, and boil till thick and creamy; mix with it a sprinkling of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of anchovy essence, and serve. Blanquette Sauce (a la Blanquette).—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when melted sift in about 2 table- spoonfuls of flour; stir over the fire till well mixed but not browned. Mix in gradually sufficient boiling water to bring the Sauce to the proper consistency, then put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some cooked button-mushrooms and onions, and salt and pepper to taste. This Sauce can be used for warming up cold meats as a white fricassee. Blonde Sauce.—Put into a stewpan 1 breakfast-cupful of melted butter, 3 table-spoonfuls of rich stock, a sprig of parsley, an onion cut into slices, two mushrooms minced very fine, a lemon cut into thin slices, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Put the pan on a slow fire, and stew the contents for half-an-hour; add the yolks of three well- beaten eggs, and stir over the fire for six minutes; strain the Sauce through a sieve, and serve. Bordeaux Sauce (a la Bordelaise).—(1) Finely chop four shallots, boil them for a few minutes, then strain off the water, and put them into a saucepan with 4 pint of white wine. Boil the wine for twenty minutes, then add 1 pint of Spanish Sauce, a little chopped parsley, and pepper. Let the Sauce simmer by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then boil it up, and serve. (2) Put some lean boiled ham that has been cut into small pieces into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of brown Sauce and 4 breakfast-cupful of claret. "When boiling, put in with the ham half a bay-leaf, half a blade of mace, two cloves, and a few peppercorns. Boil the Sauce till reduced to about two-thirds, strain it into another saucepan, let it simmer, and skim occasionally. Mix the strained juice of one lemon with 1 table-spoonful of claret, and stir it in with the Sauce to brighten and clear it. Boil the Sauce up again, and if for fish, add a pounded anchovy or a few drops of essence of anchovies; if for meat the anchovy should be omitted. Bourgeoise Sauce (a la Bourgeoise).—Put 1 table-spoon- ful each of blanched and chopped chervil, parsley, and tarragon-leaves into a saucepan, and mix with them 1 tea- cupful of stock and 1 dessert-spoonful each of meat glaze, French mustard, and caster sugar; stir the above in- gredients over the fire for a few minutes. When ready to serve the Sauce, squeeze into it the juice of half a lemon, and season to taste with a little salt and pepper. This Sauce makes a very good relish for cold boiled chicken or beef. Bretonne Sauce (a la Bretonne).—(1) Put in a basin 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and mustard and 1 table-spoonful of grated horseradish; mix with 4 teacupful of vinegar. This Sauce can be served with either hot or cold meat. (2) Mince twelve onions and fry them in butter till they are brown. Mix 1 teacupful of flour with a little beef or veal gravy and sprinkle it over them. Take off all the fat, season with salt and pepper, and strain through a tammy-cloth. Another way is to fry some small white onions cut in rings until they are brown; have the Sauce a little more liquid, and boil the onions in it. When done, skim off the fat.