THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 260 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. Puddings—continued. lade mixed with the strained juice of a lemon, and serve with a little sweet sauce poured round. (2) Cut up the remains of any kind of cold cooked fruit Pudding, mincing it as small as possible, and mix it up with a quarter of its weight in moisj sugar, shredded beef- suet, flour, and black currant or any other kind of jam or preserve. Make the mixture into a thick paste by adding well-beaten egg, put it into a buttered pie-dish, set it in a slow oven, and bake until done, which will be in about two hours, taking care that the outside does not become hard before the inside is done. Turn it out on to a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar, and serve. Gertrude’s Pudding.—Put 4oz. of tapioca into a pie-dish with as much milk as it will absorb and sugar to taste, and bake it until three-parts cooked. Peel about half- a-dozen cooking apples, core and cut them into slices, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water and some moist sugar, and boil gently until tender. Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of tapioca and apples, put a few bits of butter on the top, and grate some nutmeg over. Return the Pudding to the oven to finish cooking, and serve in the same dish. Gloucester Pudding.—Beat four eggs well, and mix with them 4oz. each of flour and butter and 6oz. of moist sugar. Whisk the mixture well for half-an-hour, then mix with it loz. of blanched and pounded bitter almonds. Butter some small moulds, half fill each with the mixture, and bake them for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the moulds on to a dish, and serve. Golden Pudding.—Finely mince 6oz. of suet, grate 6oz. of crumb of stale bread, and mix them together with 6oz. each of moist sugar and marmalade, and one egg beaten in about J teacupful of milk. Butter a Pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a Pudding-cloth over the top, and boil for nearly three hours. When cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Golden-Ball Puddings.—Blanch 4oz. of sweet almonds with three or four bitter ones, and pound them in a mortar, moistening with a few drops of orange-flower water to prevent their oiling. Mix with the almonds 1 i teacupfuls of apricot jam and 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumb. Warm 2oz. of butter and beat it well with four eggs, adding them one at a time; mix the eggs and butter with the dry ingredients, working them in well. Butter some small cups or moulds, three-parts fill each with the above mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the cups on to a hot dish, and dust them over with caster sugar. Gotham Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into a basin, and mix in four well-beaten eggs, a small quantity of salt, and a piece of saleratus the size of a small nut. Dredge in sufficient flour to make it of the consistency of thick batter, add Jib. of citron cut up into small pieces, or, if preferred, lib. of well-washed currants; work the mixture thoroughly, turn it into a mould, tie a cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Turn it out on to a dish, pour a little vine sauce over it, and serve. It may, if preferred, be simply tied up in a cloth without the mould, and boiled in the same way. Hampshire Pudding.—Prepare a rich puff paste, and line a buttered tart-dish with it, then spread a layer of any kind of preserve at the bottom. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three together, add 6oz. each of slightly-warmed butter and caster sugar, and continue whisk- ing the whole until quite thick; then pour it over the preserve at the bottom of the dish, and bake for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Hanover Pudding.—Put 6oz. of stale crumb of bread cut into small squares into a basin with the finely-minced rinds of two limes, 3oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, and 1 oz. of sweet and ten bitter almonds blanched and pounded ; moisten with 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira. Put loz. of sugar into a pan, and brown it over the fire; then stir in Puddings— continued. well J pint of cream, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and 3oz. of loaf sugar. Stir the mixture by the side of the fire until thickened, then strain it into the ingredients in the basin, and mix well. Butter a mould, ornament it with thinly-shred candied peel, fill it with the mixture, and steam for one hour. When cooked, turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve with a sweet sauce poured round. Harem Puddings.—Put \ teacupful of flour into a basin and mix in gradually 1 pint of cream; turn it into a sauce- pan and stir over the fire until cooked; then take it off and let it get cold. Mix then with the thickened cream Jib. of well-washed currants, Jib. of sugar, Jib. of slightly- warmed butter, four well-beaten eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of blanched and chopped pistachio-nuts. Butter some small dariole-moulds, fill them with the mixture, and bake. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of strawberry jam into a small lined saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and stir over the fire until boiling; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Strain the sauce, and pour it gradually over 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot; turn all back into the saucepan again, and stir over the fire until thickened. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the moulds on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve. See Fig. 322. Hasty Pudding.—Put an egg into a basin and beat it well, adding gradually 1 pinch of salt and 1 table-spoonful of flour; and pour in sufficient milk to make a light batter. Have ready 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk in a sauce- pan, pour the flour mixture into it, and stir well over the fire for about twenty minutes until well boiled; then pour it out into a dish, and serve. Helen’s Pudding.—Boil 1 pint of milk in a saucepan; beat up the yolks of two eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar and toz. of cornflour. Take the milk from the fire, and while it is scalding hot stir into it the cornflour, sugar, and eggs. Continue stirring till well mixed, and add a few drops of essence of almonds to flavour it; pour it into a Pudding-dish, and cover with the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth with 2oz. of powdered white sugar. Bake in the oven till slightly brown. Helena Pudding.—Boil 1 pint of milk with 1 teacupful of cream, and pour it over 1 breakfast-cupful of grated bread- crumb. When cooled, mix with these ingredients the grated peel of a small lemon and the beaten yolks of five eggs with the whites of two; beat the whole well to- gether. Spread a thick layer of strawberry jam at the bottom of a dish, pour the mixture over it, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Herefords Pudding.—Peel, core, and chop Jib. of apples, chop Jib. of suet, wash and dry Jib. of currants, and mix these ingredients together with Jib. of flour, 1 heaped table-spoonful of moist sugar, and two eggs well beaten in J pint of milk. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mixture into it, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve either hot or cold. Homely Pudding.—Put a thick layer of jam at the bottom of a Pudding-dish, and over this lay about f breakfast cupful of breadcrumbs or perhaps a little more. Put 1 jiint of milk over the fire and let it almost boil; take it off, and when sufficiently cool add an egg, with 1 table-