THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 42 7 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <S:c., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. hand is placed underneath and the centre raised, so that the whole design stands on the four points of the pockets, as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” Iso. 2. Pour-pointed Fan.—Fold the Serviette like a half hand- kerchief, but do not let the points meet (Fig. 525), which drawing is half the size proportionately of Figs. 526 and 527 ; bring point B to meet D, and A to meet C, forming Fig. 526, then take point E and turn it back by the dotted line, making Fig. 527 ; pleat the napkin, and stand it up in a wineglass (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). The pleats should not be too small for this design, and the four points should be carefully separated so as to show off the Serviette when finished. S er viettes—continued. Italian Cap.—Have the Serviette open on the table, and fold the corners to the centre ; again fold the corners to the centre, then double the Serviette in half, with the folded parts on the outer sides (Fig. 52S) ; draw the corners (C C) inwardly between the two triangles, making Fig. 528a ; bring together the points of the upper triangle (A A), and tuck the left hand securely into the right-hand folds (Fig. 528b) ; turn over the Serviette and repeat with second triangle. Pass the hand up through the large opening between the triangles, and shape out the cap. The larger points at top should be nicely curved, and the four little points be turned outwardly as shown in Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2. Mitre.—Fold the napkin in three, and turn both ends to meet in the middle as in Fig. 529. Take the top- right hand corner, and fold it into the middle. Take the Fig. 529. bottom left-hand corner, and fold that also into the middle; turn the napkin over and fold it in half lengtlnvise, as in Fig. 530. Bring the right-hand point (A) towards you, and tuck it into the inner fold at B. Turn over the napkin, and do the same with the other corner, which will now be also on the right hand. In Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2, will be seen a complete design. The bread should be put in the centre.