TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 370 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. Salmon—continued. alternate layers of forcemeat and Salmon; cover it with a flat of paste, moistening and pressing the edges together, put a tliick layer of puff paste over all, make a hole in the centre, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-half. Serve the pie when cold. (3) Put a few slices of Salmon into a frying-pan with some butter, finely-chopped herbs, pepper and salt, and warm them. Line a mould with puff paste, lard the Salmon with fillets of anchovies, and put them in the mould ; covei with a layer of the same paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake the pie. Stir into some court bouillon that lias been seasoned with chopped shallots and parsley a little flour and butter that has been mixed together, and boil it for a few minutes. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, put it on a hot dish, remove the paste cover, pour in the prepared sauce, garnish with crayfish, and serve. (4) Remove the skin and bones from about 21b. of boiled Salmon, pound the flesh in a mortar, seasoning it well with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and grated nutmeg. Butter a raised pie-mould, and line it with raised pie paste, pressing it carefully so as to take the pattern of the mould; put in the Salmon, cover it with paste, press it closely over, and cut a round piece out of the top to form a lid; brush it over with beaten egg, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, put it on a hot dish, lift the lid, and pour in some warmed butter. Serve with a plate of cut lemons. Salmon Pie with Truffles Served Cold.—Bone and skin a piece of fresh Salmon (that taken from the tail-end will be best), cut the fillets- into pieces, put them in a basin, and season with salt and spices. Peel seven or eight raw black truffles, cut them into quarters, season, and put them in a kitchen-basin; boil half the trimmings with some white wine and meat glaze. Chop the remainder with a little bacon, then pound and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Chop and pound the trimmings of the Salmon with lib. of pike-flesh, an equal quantity of bacon, 5o‘z. of truffles, and some salted fillets of anchovies. Mix with the forcemeat 6oz. of panada, seasoning to taste, and the extract of truffles. Put the bacon and trimmings of truffles that were pounded together in a saucepan, and when very hot add the pieces of Salmon, fry them for a few minutes over a quick fire, then pour in 1 teacupful of white wine. When boiling, move the stewpan off the fire, add the remainder of the truffles, cover with the lid, and let them cool. Put a sheet of coarse paper on a baking-sheet, set a pie-mould on it, butter the interior, and line it with short paste. Fill it with alternate layers of Salmon, forcemeat, and truffles. Cover the pie with the same crust, make a hole in the centre, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, leave it for an hour, then pour in through the hole in the top \ pint of slightly-warmed aspic jelly. Serve when quite cold. Salmon Pudding.—(1) Pound a piece of Salmon, and pass it through a sieve; mix with it an equal quantity of butter and sufficient beaten egg to prevent it from break- ing, and dust in with it a little salt and cayenne pepper. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a cloth over, and steam it for an hour. Prepare some bechamel sauce, and mix with it a small quantity of essence of anchovies. When cooked, turn the Salmon pudding on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. (2) Remove the skin and lione from 11b. of cold boiled Salmon, and chop the flesh very fine; butter the interior of a mould, and strew over 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs that have been browned in butter, shaking them about until they cover the inside of the mould. Mix with the chopped Salmon 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs and two boned and chopped anchovies; season with salt and pepper, and stir in four beaten eggs and I teacupful of cream. Pour the mixture into the mould, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, * and tie down. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and boil gently for an hour. Care must be taken that the water does not enter at the top of the mould. At the end of that time, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, and serve. Salmon in Rhenish. Style.—Cut a piece of Salmon in about twenty slices, and cut and trim them into collops. Mix together some pike forcemeat and crayfish butter, and mould it into about thirty quenelles. Boil some crayfish in white wine, and blanch thirty oysters. Prepare a little brown roux, mix gradually with it the crayfish- and oyster-liquor, and add some fish broth and the bones and trimmings of the Salmon and pike. Stir the sauce till boiling, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for forty minutes. Skim and strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, boil it quickly till reduced, and thicken it with a liaison of two yolks of eggs; keep it in a bain-marie. Season half of the collops with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, breadcrumb them, and fry them in clarified butter. Fry the remaining collops as they are in butter; when cooked, drain the butter off, add the blanched oysters, crayfish tails, and sauce, and keep them hot. Have ready boiled 21b. of sour crout, drain it thoroughly, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of the sauce; pile it in a circle on a hot dish, pour the ragout of sauce and fish in the centre, put four crayfish that have had their tails picked on the top, lean the fried collops round the sour- crout, and serve. Salmon Salad.—(1) Remove the skin and bones from two Salmon steaks that have been broiled; Hake the flesh with two forks, put it into a basin, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with lemon-juice or vinegar and a very small quantity of oil, the fish being oily itself. Keep it in soak for an hour or more. Wash a lettuce in plenty of water, then drain it well, pull the leaves apart, and put them in a salad-bowl; drain the Salmon, put it in with the lettuce, pour over it a mayonnaise dressing, garnish it tastefully with slices of hard-boiled eggs, olives, and anchovies cut into small fancy shapes, and serve. (2) For a Salmon salad mix together one part of cold boiled Salmon and two parts of chopped celery that has been thoroughly washed and dried on a clean towel. Season them with salt and pepper, put them into a salad- bowl, pour over them a very little salad-oil and vinegar, using about 3 table-spoonfuls of oil and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar to Iqt. of salad, and then put a mayonnaise on top of the salad, and serve it at once. The salad may be garnished with cold hard-boiled eggs^ sliced or quartered, pickled beetroots, olives, and capers, or any of these articles, or it may he served without a garnish. (3) Remove the bones and skin from a piece of cold boiled Salmon; pull the flesh into flakes, season them, and steep them in oil and vinegar. Prepare a salad with some various vegetables cut into small pieces, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of pickled capers, mush- rooms, and gherkins; season it with oil and vinegar, and mix with it A teacupful of mayonnaise. File the salad in a dome shape on a round dish, lay the flakes of Salmon all over, coat the dome with a layer of mayonnaise with eggs, smoothing it carefully over with the blade ot a knife; garnish with halves of hard-boiled eggs (see rig. 441), and serve. (4) Cut some slices of Salmon into collops of an equal size, dust them with pepper and salt, and fry them in - butter. When cooked, drain and leave the collops till