THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 393 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. soft and dry. Add a little saffron worked up in 1 oz. of 1 Hitter, loz. of grated cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir well, let the mixture remain on the side of the fire for ten minutes, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Rice a la Ristori.—Well wash and drain ^lb. of Rice. Shred 2oz. of bacon into small pieces, and place them in a saucepan with a medium sized, chopped-up, raw cabbage, letting them steam for thirty minutes. Add 1 pinch of salt, l pinch of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; put in the Rice, and moisten with A pint of white broth. Cook for fully a-quarter-of-an-hour longer, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese sprinkled over. Rice-and-Apple Pudding. -Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice into a saucepan with water and boil for ten minutes; then turn it out on to a sieve and let it drain. Place a cloth in a pudding-basin, make a crust with some of the Rice round the sides, fill up with apples cut in small pieces, add a little lemon-peel, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a couple of cloves; cover the top villi the remainder of the Rice, tie up the cloth, and put it with the basin in a saucepan of water. Boil for an hour, turn the pudding out carefully, pour over sweet sauce or melted butter, and serve. Rice Ralls (German).—Wash 4oz. of Rice, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil gently until soft, shaking it occasionally but not stirring it. When dry and tender, take the Rice off the fire and leave it until cool; then mix it with an equal quantity of finely- minced veal or chicken, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, half that quantity of chopped lemon-peel, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir in sufficient beaten egg to bind the mixture, keeping it con- sistent. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, which roll to an egg shape, put them into a saucepan of slightly-salted boiling water, and boil them for five minutes. Drain them, put them on a hot dish on which a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper has been placed, and serve them. They may also be .served as a garnish for meat. Rice Batter Cakes.--Put 1 teacupful of washed Rice into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and boil it quite dry, with the lid on the pan. Put it into a basin, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 6oz. of flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder mixed with it, the well-beaten yolks of five eggs, or two whole eggs, and 2 table-spoonfuls of molasses. Work the paste well, form it into cakes, put them on a gridiron, and bake until done. They are then ready for use. A small quantity of salt should also be added, and butter-milk and bicarbonate of soda may be substituted for tbe sweet milk and baking-powder; or 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold cooked Rice worked smooth with the milk can be used for the freshly-boiled Rice. Rice Blackcap Pudding.—Thickly butter the interior of a quart pudding-basin, and stick firmly all round the sides and bottom plenty of prunes; put in |lb. of Rice, then tie a pudding-cloth tightly over the top, put the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil quickly for .two hours, keeping the pudding well covered with the water. The boiling water will enter the basin and be absorbed by the Rice. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of butter into a small saucepan with the same quantity of moist sugar, and stir it over the fire until melted; then pour it over the pudding, and serve. Rice Border.—(1) Arrange plain boiled Rice in a circle, as for serving curry; or work it into a border-mould as follows: Wash thoroughly in two or three waters 1 break- fast-cupful of Rice, put it into a saucepan with 3 break- fast-cupfuls of cold water, and boil slowly for half-an- hour; then stir in it 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Beat this up till very smooth, and then add two eggs previously beaten. Stir well, put the mixture into a buttered mould, and set it in the oven for a few minutes. Turn out on to a dish, and fill the centre with curry, fricassee, or anything else prepared for the purpose. Rice—continued. (2) Put Alb. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with sufficient rich broth to keep it moist when cooked, add loz. of butter, 1 handful of grated Parmesan cheese, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Turn the preparation into a border mould, let it remain for five or ten minutes, turn it out, and it is ready for use. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice and 3 breakfast- cupfuls of water into a saucepan, and boil them together for half an-hour; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Remove the pan to the side of the fire and simmer gently for an hour. Beat the Rice up with a sjioon until it is very fine and quite smooth, add two well-beaten eggs, and stir well for two or three minutes. Fill a border mould with the mixture, set it in the hot closet for ten or twelve minutes, turn it out, and it is ready for use. Rice Border with Mushrooms.—Wash Alb. of Rice, put it in a stewpan with U pints of boiling broth, one onion stuck with three or four cloves, a blade of mace, and loz. of butter, and boil it gently for one hour-and-a-half, stirring it frequently to prevent it sticking. When the Rice is cooked, remove the lid off' the saucepan, and let it steam until quite dry. Take it off the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, the white of one, 2oz. of butter in small bits, and a moderate quantity of salt. Butter a castellated border mould, and strew in thickly round the sides and bottom some finely-grated breadcrumbs. Let the Rice cool a little, then fill the mould with it, and bake it in a quick oven between thirty and forty minutes. Peel about a dozen large mushrooms. Put 2oz. of buttei in a stewpan, and brown it over the fire; then put in the mushrooms with 1 teaspoonful of pounded mace, dredge them over with flour, season to taste with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and toss them over the fire for fifteen minutes. When ready, turn the Rice Fia. 383. Rice Border with Mushrooms. out of the mould on to a hot dish, put the mushrooms in the centre (see Fig. 383) with the sauce over them, and serve while hot. They are also very nice stewed in a little brown gravy. Rice Broth.-—Wash I teacupful of Rice, put it into a saucepan with plenty of salted water, and boil it until soft. When cooked, strain the Rice as dry as possible, put a cloth over the top of it, and stand it at the side of the fire. Put into a saucepan as much clear broth as will make the required quantity of soup, season it to taste, and stand it over the fire. When the broth boils, stir in the Rice, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it. Rice-and-Cabbage Soup.—Clean and well wash a savoy cabbage, put it into a saucepan with A gall, of rich broth, and boil for ten minutes; then add lOoz. of Rice, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour; now add I handful of grated cheese, Coz. of finely-chopped bacon-fat, and a seasoning of sage. Boil quickly for five or six minutes longer, turn the soup into the tureen, and serve. Rice Cake.—(1) Blanch lib. of sweet and Aoz. of bitter almonds, put them into a mortar with a little water, and pound them to a pulp; then add 2qts. of water, and strain through a cloth into a saucepan. Add 12oz. of well- washed Rice, blanched in boiling water for a few minutes, also Alb. of crushed loaf sugar, and a slight quantity of salt. Bring the liquor to the boil, and stir gently and - frequently until the Rice is so cooked that it will easily