THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 290 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Saucc£ referred to, see under their special heads, Rabbits—continued. then put in the fillets, and fry them until lightly browned. Drain them for a minute or two on a sheet of paper, then arrange them on a dish over which has heen spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve; or they may be served with, macaroni and cheese, or a puree of tomatoes. Fillets of Rabbit with Potatoes.—Divide the fillets of two or three Rabbits each into two or three pieces, beat them with a cutlet-bat or the flat of a large knife to an equal thickness, trim them to the shape of small cutlets, and put in a buttered saute-pan ; squeeze a little lemon- juice over them, season with salt and pepper, and fry them over a moderate fire, turning them when done on one side to cook the other. Cut the same number of pieces of bam into the same shape as the fillets, put them in a sauce- pan with a small quantity of broth, and make them hot. When the fillets are firm to the touch of the fork they are cooked; then drain them, and arrange them in a circle alternately with the ham on a potato mound on a hot dish. Pour 1 pint of white sauce and half that quantity of broth into the saute-pan, stir it over the fire, and reduce it till it coats the spoon; then put in some blanched heads of mushrooms and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. Boil the sauce up again, and finish it with h tea- cupful of cream. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve them. Fillets of Rabbit with Truffle Puree.—Trim and lard the large fillets of half-a-dozen Rabbits, roll the ends round a little in the form of the tail of a J, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and cook them; then take them out and glaze. Put a croustade filled with truffle purde on a dish, place the fillets round it, porn- over a little hot half-glaze, and serve at once. Forcemeat of Rabbit.—(1) Chop 2lb. of fat bacon and lib. of the flesh of a wild Rabbit, pound it well in a mortar, and flavour with a little sweet herbs; add the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and a little salt. When well mixed, it will be ready for use. (2) Cut off the meat of one large Rabbit or two small ones, put it into a mortar, pound it well, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Take a good calf’s udder (pre- viously boiled), and when it is cold remove the skin and pound it in a mortar. Weigh it, and to every pound of udder add 6oz. of panada and lib. of Rabbit-meat. Season with a little nutmeg grated, a little shallot, salt and pepper, and mix well. Take three eggs and add them gradually, then three more yolks only, and when tho- roughly mixed it is ready for use. Fricassee of Rabbit.—(1) Cut a Rabbit into nice-sized pieces, and steep them in cold water for a couple of hours; then blanch them in boiling salted water, and refresh them with cold water. Put 2oz. of butter and 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and mix them over the fire; then stir in gradually breakfast-cupfuls of white stock that is quite free of fat, add a couple of small onions, a few cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. Drain the pieces of Rabbit, put them into the sauce with some button-mushrooms, and stew gently at the side of the fire. When cooked, pile the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish, and arrange the mushrooms in a circle round them. Strain the cooking-liquor, return it to the saucepan, and boil it up again. Beat the yolks of two eggs with the juice of half a lemon, and stir them into the sauce, first moving it off the fire, as it should not boil after the eggs are added, or they will curdle. Pour the sauce over the Rabbit, and serve. (2) Carefully skin two Rabbits, draw them, wash the insides with 1 teacupful of vinegar, and save it, together with the blood, after straining them through a fine cloth to free them from any fur which might get mixed with them. Wipe the Rabbits with a wet cloth to free them from fur, cut them in small pieces about 2in. square, and roll them in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Peel and slice one Spanish onion or half-a-dozen small ones, put them in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and the Rabbits, and quickly brown them; then pour in 1 Rabbits—continued. breakfast-cupful of milk and sufficient boiling water with the vinegar and blood to cover them ; season with salt and cayenne, cover the frying-pan, and stew them gently for about half-an-hour, or until they are tender. Serve very hot. (3) Skin and clean a couple of young Rabbits, chop them into joints, splitting the head in halves; dredge them well with salt, pepper, and flour, put them into a frying- pan with a little butter, and fry them a light brown. Take them out, drain them, put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of mushrooms, one or two truffles, two or three shallots finely chopped, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste; pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of rich gravy, cover the saucepan, place it at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for thirty minutes. Skim off all the scum, add 1 table-spoonful of mushroom or other ketchup to the mixture, together with the juice of half a lemon, remove the herbs, put in a small piece of butter kneaded with flour, place the saucepan on the fire, and boil until the liquor is thick and quite smooth. Remove all the fat, pour the fricassee out on to a dish, surround with pieces of lemon for a garnish, and serve very hot. (4) Skin and clean a couple of Rabbits, chop off their heads and necks, and cut the remainder into joints ; put these into a basin of warm water, and let them soak for an hour or so. Take them out, drain them, put them into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water or thin veal broth, and add one onion, three chopped shallots, half a blade of pounded mace, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, the thin peel of half a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of mushrooms, and a very small quantity of salt. Place the saucepan at the side of the fire, cover it, and simmer the contents gently for thirty minutes; then remove the herbs, lemon-peel, and onion, and put in a small lump of butter well kneaded with flour. Place the saucepan on the fire, boil up quickly, and skim well and frequently. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, beat them up well with a little cream and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, add them to the mixture in the saucepan, and toss or shake it in one direction until the liquor is quite thick. Remove the pan from the fire, add the juice of half a lemon, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve with small pieces of lemon for a garnish. (5) Disjoint a Rabbit, and steep it in cold salted water for an hour; then drain the pieces, dry them on a clcth, put them in a stewpan with plenty of butter, and toss them about over the fire until lightly browned. Moisten the pieces to height with clear stock that has been well freed from fat, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, with two small onions, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stew the Rabbit gently at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, pile the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish ; strain their cooking-liquor, return it to the stewpan, and boil it up again. Beat the yolk of an egg with the juice of half a lemon, strain it, and stir it into the sauce, first moving the stewpan to the side of the fire, as the egg must not boil. Pour the sauce over the Rabbit, garnish with small cooked mushrooms, and serve while hot. Fried Rabbit.—Skin and draw a Rabbit, cut it up into joints, dividing the back into halves; sprinkle them well with flour, salt, and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with boiling hot butter, and fry them for about fifteen minutes, by which time they should be a light brown colour and quite done. Sprinkle the centre of a dish over with a shallot very finely minced, pour over this 1 tea- cupful of mushroom ketchup and about Ihoz. of butter, both made hot, place the pieces of Rabbit on this, and serve. Fried Rabbit with Mushrooms.—Skin and draw a Rabbit, cut o f all the flesh lengthwise from the back, divide this into squares of equal size, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until quite done and tender. Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, put them on a dish, place a stewed mushroom on each (see Fig. 343), pour round a little of the mushroom stock, or thin sauce highly flavoured with mushroom ketchup, and serve.