THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 351 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Rusks—contin tied. Rusks—continued. blanched pistachio kernels. Put the hatter into four moulds, 8in. long, 2in. deep, and 2in. wide, and bake to a light colour. Turn the hatter out when cold, cut the four pieces crosswise into slices, brown them slightly in the oven, and serve. A few minutes only will suffice for this last browning, as the Rusks must not become dry through. Rusk Cake.—Blanch and peel 6oz. of almonds, and pound them in a mortar, mixing in occasionally small quantities of white of egg to keep them from oiling; then beat with them the yolks of fourteen eggs, Jib. of caster sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cloves, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Stir the above ingredients for half-an-hour. Pound Jib. of Rusks in a mortar, then sift them through a tine hair sieve, and add, with the juice of one lemon, to the above mixture. Work the whole well for a few minutes, then mix in lightly the whites of the fourteen eggs, which should have been whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a cake mould, pour in the mixture, which should only three-parts till the mould, allowing room for it to rise. Bake the cake in a moderate oven. Rusk Fritters.—Pare all the crust from half-a-dozen Rusks ; cut each Rusk into slices about lin. thick, pour a glass of sherry over them, and let them soak for a few minutes. Beat up three eggs with 2oz. of caster sugar. Lay the slices of Rusk on a sieve to drain, dip them into the beaten egg, and fry them in boiling lard. Drain them on kitchen paper, lay them on a hot dish, sprinkle them over with powdered cinnamon and caster sugar, and serve hot. Rusk Ices.—Prepare some lemon water ice and coffee cream ice, and freeze them separately. Coat a Rusk ice mould with the coffee cream ice, leaving a hollow in the centre; fill the hollow with the lemon water ice, and pack the mould in pounded ice and salt. Before serving, turn the frozen preparation out of the mould, and cut it across into slices with a knife dipped in hot water. Put some vine leaves on a glass dish, arrange the slices on them, and serve. Rusk Pudding.—Put a couple of Rusks at the bottom of a well-buttered pie-dish. Beat an egg up in a basin, pour over 1 breakfast cupful of boiling milk, sweeten to taste, and flavour with vanilla or lemon. Pour the mixture over the Rusks, set the dish in a slow oven, and bake for about an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a dish, spread over a little apricot or straw- berry jam made hot, and serve. Rusks with Raspberries.—(1) Pick off the stalks from 1 pint of raspberries, and put them into a saucepan with 6oz. of loaf sugar, 1 pint of water, and half that quan- tity of white wine. Boil the fruit for five minutes, then pass the liquor through a fine wire sieve, and leave it until cold. Lay some Rusks on a baking-dish, sift Fig. 417. Rusks with Raspberries. crushed loaf sugar over them, and glaze them under a sala- mander. When the Rusks are cold, arrange them in a glass dish, pour the raspberry liquor over them (see Fig. 417) and serve. (2) Glaze some Rusks, lay them in a glass dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and pour light wine and raspberry syrup over them in equal quantities. Rusk Shape (German).—Spread a few thin Rusks over with any kind of jam, and cover with more Rusks; butter a plain mould, and lay them carefully in. Beat the yolks of four eggs with the whites of two, stir them in with 1 breakfast-cupful each of cream and milk, and pour them over the Rusks. Leave the mould until the Rusks are well soaked with the custard; then tie a sheet of paper over the top, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an hour. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet wine sauce poured round it. Savoury Rusk Pudding.—(1) Beat up four eggs, mix them with 1 pint of veal or chicken stock that has not been flavoured 'with onion or garlic and that has had all the fat well skimmed off, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. Break four Rusks up into moderate- sized pieces, put them in a buttered pie-dish, pour the eggs and gravy over them, and bake in a slow oven. Serve hot. (2) Cut about ill), of lean mutton or veal into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar. Beat lqt. of milk in with the meat, then pour it into a stewpan and let it simmer very slowly for an-hour-and-a-half. Do not let the milk boil. Strain the milk through a fine hair sieve, and mix two well beaten eggs with it. Break three Rusks into moderate-sized pieces, lay them in a buttered pie-dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, and pour the savoury custard over them. Bake for nearly an hour in a slow oven. Serve while hot. (3) Put four Rusks in a basin, pour over them 1 pint of boiling veal or mutton broth or beef tea, cover the basin, and leave the Rusks until they are well soaked. Skin and finely mince 2oz. of veal kidney-suet, mix it with the Rusks, add three eggs, season to taste, and beat the mixture well. Butter a pudding basin, pour in the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over it, stand it in a sauce- pan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an hour. Do not let the water enter at the top of the basin. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Swiss Rusks.—Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat to a cream with a wooden spoon. Sift in 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and stir in, one at a time, eight eggs, beating one well in before another one is added; then add and stir in 8oz. of sifted dried flour and 4oz. of ground sweet almonds. Have ready a square tin with a turned-up edge, butter it well, and dust it with sugar; pour in the mixture to about lin. in thickness, smoothing over the surface with a spatula, put it into a moderate oven, and bake. Take it out when cooked, and turn it bodily out on to a sheet of paper. Let it get cold, cut it into shapes, and serve. Vanilla-flavoured Rusk Pudding.—Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with Jib. of caster sugar, and stir it over the fire till well mixed; add one well-beaten egg, and suffi- cient essence of vanilla to flavour it, and stir the paste over the fire till thick; then move it off. Cover some slices of Rusk with the mixture, and put them in a buttered pie-dish. Beat one egg in A pint of milk, pour it over the Rusks, and bake them in a moderate oven for an hour. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of syrup and a little vanilla flavouring, and stir it over the fire till boiling. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve at once. RUSSETS.—See Apples. RUSSIAN COMPOTE.—See Compotes. RUSSIAN PATTIES.—See Patties. RUSSIAN SALAD.—See Salads. RUSSIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. RUSSIAN WAFERS.—See Wafers. RUSSIAN WINES.—These are very rarely met , with in tKs country, although they are largely manu- | factured in Caucasia. The history of wine-making in