292 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. garnish it to taste. This makes a very pretty dish if the various colours are made to contrast nicely. Matelote of Rabbit.—Skin and clean a Rabbit and an eel, cut the Rabbit without its head into joints, and the eel into short pieces. Put a little butter into a saucepan with a dozen or so small onions, brown them a little over the fire, then take them out; treat the pieces of Rabbit in the same way. Put 1 teaspoonful of flour into the saucepan with the butter and Rabbit, stir well until it is smooth, add the pieces of eel, the onions, a few chopped mushrooms, grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, a small bouquet of sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic cut in halves. Pour over sufficient white wine and rich broth to moisten, put the saucepan on a clear tire, and boil very quickly until the whole is cooked. Place the pieces of Rabbit in the centre of a dish with the pieces of eel round it. Remove the garlic and herbs from the sauce, boil it up for two or three minutes, pour it over the Rabbit, and serve very hot. Minced Rabbit.—(1) Finely mince the flesh of any cold remains of Rabbit, and mix with it a third of its quantity of minced fat bacon. Season the mixture to taste with grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Turn it into a stewpan, moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of good stock, but do not make it too liquid, and stew it gently for fifteen minutes; then add a piece of butter that has been kneaded with a little Hour. When ready, turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croft tons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Use any remains of Rabbit that has been recently cooked, free the pieces from skin, and mince them. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and mix them well over the fire; then put in the mince, and season it to taste with salt, pepper, spices, and a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs. Moisten the mince with stock, but do not make it too liquid, and keep it at the edge of the fire. Beat the yolk of an egg up with the juice of half a lemon, and strain it. When the mince is thoroughly heated, stir the beaten egg in with it, and add a small quantity of finely-minced parsley. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croft tons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve it at once. Mumbled Rabbits.—Cut off all the meat from a couple of Rabbits that have been boiled and are quite hot, mince it very fine, and mix in the juice and grated or finely- chopped rind of a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Put the mince into a sauce- pan with fib. of butter and nine beaten eggs, place the pan on the fire, and stir well for about fifteen minutes. Turn the contents of the saucepan out on to a hot dish, garnish with pieces of fried bread and slices of lemon alternately (see Fig. 344), and serve hot. Potted Rabbit.—-Draw, skin, and clean two or three young Rabbits, chop off the hind-legs at the thigh, and put them together with all the flesh into a small saucepan, packing them in as tightly as possible and sprinkling them well with powdered mace and allspice, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. Put several large pieces of butter on the top, which should be as flat as possible, cover with the lid, put the saucepan into a slow oven, and bake gently for from two to two hours-and-a-half. Let the meat remain in the pan for two or three days, then put it into Rabbits—con tin ued. pots, cover the tops with hot butter, let this cool, and the meat is ready for use. The livers may also be added, if desired, and are a great improvement. Preserved Rabbit.—Bone a Rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham, season it well with pepper and salt both inside and out, roll it up tightly, beginning with the legs, and tie it tightly with twine. Put it into a stewpan over the fire with some oil, a little thyme, basil, and a bay-leaf, and keep it over the fire until the meat is tender, but do not let the liquor boil. When the Rabbit is cooked enough, take it from the stewpan, drain, and put it away till cold ; then cut it into small pieces, put these into bottles, fill up with oil, and tie them over with wet bladders. When required for use, take them from the bottles, cut them into fillets, lay them on a dish, and garnish them with sprays of parsley and a little oil. Pulled Rabbit.—Parboil a couple of Rabbits in water, with a piece of lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and an onion; then take the Rabbits up, pull the flesh to flakes, add to it the livers boiled and bruised, a small quantity of salt, chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, and pepper. Put this over the fire in a stewpan, with a little of the liquor the Rabbits were boiled in and loz. of butter rolled in flour, shake it round now and then till it boils, let it boil ten minutes, and serve. Rabbits au Gratin.—Cut off all the flesh from a couple of cold roasted Rabbits, or any pieces that may be left, remove all the skin and sinew, chop it very fine, put it into a saucepan, and pour over sufficient reduced bechamel sauce to moisten it. Put a little more of this reduced sauce into a silver dish, and gratin it, or boil it in the dish till it sticks to the bottom but does not burn. Smear this over the dish, let it get cold, put a border of soft bread round the inside, place the mince in the centre, smooth the surface with a knife, sprinkle the top over with breadcrumbs, then baste it with warm butter, and then again more breadcrumbs and butter. Brown the top with a salamander, and on no account must the dish be put into the oven again, or the gratin would burn and the effect be spoilt. Decorate the dish with slices of bread fried in butter and cut into various shapes, and serve. Rabbits en Friteau.—Skin some young Rabbits, cut each one into four pieces, put them in a dish with some slices of shallots, a sprig of parsley and thyme, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, and some lemon-juice,-and leave them for three or four hours. Drain the pieces of Rabbit, flour them well, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned, dress them on a fancy-edged dish paper on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Rabbit a 1’Italienne.—Cut up the Rabbits at the joints, and trim each piece neatly. Rub a stewpan over with garlic, put in the pieces of Rabbit, with plenty of olive oil, and toss them about until they begin to brown. Moisten the Rabbit to height with white wine, add two or three peppercorns, a small quantity of bruised coriander-seeds, a sprig or two of rosemary, and salt to taste, and stew gently at the side of the fire until tender. Finely mince in equal quantities some capers, shallots, and boned anchovies, put them in a stewpan with some olive oil, and fry them for a few minutes; then dredge them lightly over with flour, moisten them with a sufficient quantity of gravy to make the sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered spice, ami stir the whole until boiling. When the pieces of Rabbit are cooked, pile them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Rabbit a la Jardiniere.—Skin and clean a Rabbit, dis- joint it, and put it into a saucepan, with a good supply of any vegetables that are in season, a bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt to taste ; then pour over sufficient broth or gravy to cover them, and cook gently on the side of the fire until the meat is quite tender. Takeout the pieces of Rabbit and arrange them on a dish. Rub the vege- tables through a fine sieve, put them round, and serve with a garnish of fried thin slices of bacon.