SOUPS. Chap, i.] 1 sheep’s-trotters, and cow-heel; all these afford very strong jelly, and the proper flavour may be given by the Judicious addition of beef, game, ham, &c. Some eco- nomical persons purchase bones of the butcher, and by stewing them many hours procure an excellent stock ; and families to whom expense is an object will do well to make the experiment. Scrag of veal will answer all the purpose of the knuckle. CLEAK GRAVY SOUP.—E. R. Take a leg of beef, cut it in several pieces, and break the bones ; lay it in a kettle with a proportionate qu.antity of ham, three pounds of the latter to fourteen of the former: draw it at first with a small quantity of water; then add onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, a carrot or two, and some lumps of sugar, and a sufficient quantity of whole pepper. Fill up the kettle with boiling water, skim it well, and stew the whole gently for ten hours When taken off the fire, ladle out the soup that it may not be disturbed in any way, and only take as much as can be procured in this manner, putting away the re- mainder with the meat in a separate pan. When cold, take off all the fat very carefully, and warm it, when wanted, with carrots cut very thin, in pieces about an inch long, or asparagus cut like pease, or vermicelli. This soup should not rec^uire any artificial browning, but, if wanted of a deep colour, a small quantity will suffice. If, by any mischance, the soup should be at all muddy, which it will be if care be not taken to keep it from the sediment, it must he thickened and converted into other descriptions of soup. The finer portions of the beef of whicb tbe soup is made should be taken out and cut into small pieces, served in some part of the liquor, thickened and sent up with piquant sauce on vegetables. Add water to the remainder of the meat, which will stew some time longer, aiid make very good soup with the addition of the before- mentioned mucilaginous pieces sent up in it, ox-tail, giblet, or fried vegetables. The ox-tail and the giblets.