36 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ii. a day or two before they are sent to table, every cook may be assured that it is impossible to dress fisli too fresh. Some kinds will bear keeping better than others; but none are improved by it, losing much of their deli- cacy and peculiar flavour every hour after the tide, in which they were caught, is lost. Fish, when quite fresh, curl round, but are particularly elastic, rising immediate- ly upon the pressure of the fingers; and their staleness or freshness may be measured by the possibility of making an impression. Turbot is stated to improve by keeping for a day or two ; but the acknowledged superio- rity of the Dublin Bay turbot arises from its being dressed immediately upon lieing caught: it then tastes as if it had been boiled in cream. Salmon, in losing a tide, loses a portion of the fine white curd which intervenes between each flake, and subsequently becomes more rich, but changes its character, the large flakes disappearing with the curd with which they are amalgamated. Her- rings, when properly caught, differ much from the soft, greasy, strong fish, which they afterwards become; tlieir firmness, however, may be preserved, and the oiliness prevented, by sprinkling salt upon them, if required to be kept more than a day. • In every sort of fish, stiffness, and redness of the gills and brightness of tlie eyes, are invariable signs of fresh- ness : thickness of the flesh generally marks the good condition of all fish.—E. R.] Turbot should be thick, and tlie belly of a yellowish white: if of a bluisli cast, or thin, they are bad. They are in season the greatest part of the summer. Salmon.—If new, and in season, the flesh is of a fine red, (tlie gills particularly,) the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When in greatest perfection, there is f a whiteness between the llak.s, which gives great firm- I- ness; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more '' rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price ; that | caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and is even ' preferred by some. Small heads and thick in the neck I are best.