DOMESTIC COOKERY. 98 [Chap. m. ordinary machinery will admit. The larks should be put down to a brisk fire, and the whole time they are roasting, one person should baste them with butter, another dredge them with fine bread-crumbs, while the third ([uickens the movements of the spit. When thus attended to, larks will come to table twice their original size. Though three artistes may not be abso- lutely necessary for the purpose of roasting a lark, it is essential that all small birds should be dressed according to the foregoing directions—the spit must turn rapidly, and the basting and dredging never be remitted for a single instant. Larks may be roasted encased in fat bacon, and covered with vine-leaves. Sparrows, when young and plump, are excellent eating, and cooked in the same way may do duty for larks. A dozen larks are skewered together, and the skewers tied on a spit, j Woodcocks, snipes, quails, green plovers, and ortolans are not to be drawn: lay a toast under them while roasting to catch the trail; serve them up with good I gravy and bread sauce. All game and small birds are j improved by the addition of bread-crumbs, either fried ' or toasted, the latter is the more delicate preparation: grate the crumbs, and put them into a tin shallow dish before the fire, shaking them occasionally until they are i well browned ; send them up in the dish with the roasted birds. Vermicelli fried, and then drained and dried before the fire, mav be added to all brown s;ravies. WHEAT-E.\RS.—E. R. i May be dressed in the same manner as the larks, or, when i trussed for roasting, brush each bird over with the yolk | of an egg, or, what is better, dip them in an omelette, that is, the white and yolk beaten together, with a spoon- 'l fill of milk; roll them in fine bread-cnimbs, and spit T them on a wooden or silver skewer, a dozen upon each. I When sjiitted, brush them again with the egg, and dredge f them with the bread-crumljs; tie the skewers upon a spit, and roast them before a brisk fire, basting all | the time with fresh butter : they will take about twelve d minutes.