75 MEAT. Chap, ui.] cient to effect this object: the pot must be watched and skimmed very frequently at first. In many cases it would be desirable to employ a method, not so much in practice in England as it deserves,—the preparation of meat by the heat of boiling water, without actual exposure to it. Fowls boiled in bladders, or in a jar, may be filled with oysters, and deliciously stewed, the flavour and animal juices being preserved instead of drawn out. Meat also may be put into a jar immersed in a kettle of water. The Scotch understand this method very well, and employ it in the preparation of their haggis: it was also a custom among the ancient Romans. Those who entertain a prejudice against an oven for jugged meats, imagining that the dry heat imparts an unpleasant flavour to the viands, can have no possible objection to this more elegant mode of cook- ing. TO CHOOSE ME.ITS. Venifton.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft of the haunch smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haut-gout: but it bears keeping better than any sort of meat; and if eaten fresh- killed, it is not so good as mutton. Beef.—If the flesh of ox-beef be good, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and feel ten- der. The fat should look white rather than yellow; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed by oil-cakes is generally so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is coarser and closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and it has a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-1 “jf is the richest and largest; but in small families, and to Some tastes, heifer-beef is preferred, if finely fed. In old meat, a streak of horn :;uns between the fat and lean of