[Chap. xix. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 378 All fruits for preserving should be gathered in drv weather; but as this is not always practicable, much inconvenience may be obviated by boiling the fruit for jellies and jams long before the sugar is added. By so doing the watery particles will evaporate; and the pre- serve will be better flavoured, by the sugar not being too long on the fire. TO GREEN FRUITS FOR PRESERVING OR PICKLING. Take pippins, apricots, .pears, plums, peaches, while green for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes, and put them, with, vine-leaves under and over, into a block-tin pre- servihg-pan with spring-water to cover them, and then the tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice: they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. CLARIFIED SUGAR FOR SWEET.MEATS.—E. R. To every pound of broken lump-sugar put a pint of water, and the whole of an egg beaten to a strong froth ; put it on the fire, allow it to boil, and just as it would run over check it with a little cold water. When it rises a second time, take the pan ofl’ the fire and set it on the hob for a quarter of an hour. Skim oft’ the top, and pour the syrup into a clean vessel, taking care to leave the sediment behind : after the sugar has been thus clarified it may be boiled to any height, either for useful or merely ornamental purposes. It will require careful watching, and some practice, to attain skill in the various degrees. The first, to candy; the sugar will rise in beads upon the surface, and will draw out into long threads: the second, or blown sugar, when taken up in a perforated skimmer, will form into bubbles in blowing through the holes; feathered sugar, boiled some time longer, will fly off when shaken from the skimmer, in flakes, or feathers ;