Chap, xxiii.] DAIRY. 479 The greatest possible attention must be paid to clean- liness in a dairy; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor, should be kept with the most perfect neatness, and cold water thrown over every part very often. There should he shutters to keep out the sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the udders emptied, or the quantity will de- crease. The quantity of milk depends on many causes, as the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pas- ture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of pasture will tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemen’s dairies more attention is paid to the size and beauty of the cows than to their produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese, the cows should calve from Lady- day to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use about the same time; but in gentlemen’s fami- lies one or two should calve in August or September, for a supply in winter. In good pastures the average produce of a dairy is about three gallons a day each cow from Lady-day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christmas one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. When a calf is to he reared, it should be taken from the cow in a week at furthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morn- ing, and keep it without food till the next morning ; and then, being hungry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should he given twice a-day in such quantity as is required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning.