[Chap. i. 2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. is called high living, and will prevent the appetite from becoming vitiated, and craving for constant excite- ment. A common camp kettle will be found an excellent utensil for making soup, as the lid is heavy and will keep in the steam. An earthen pipkin, if of a long and narrow make, widening a little in the centre, is also a good, perhaps one of the best vessels for soups; and soup may he made in a jar covered with paste, or folds of brown paper, and sent to the oven. It is always desirable to prepare soup the day before it is wanted, as the fat is very easdy taken off when cold. The liquor in which meat has been merely boiled may be converted into good soup by frying vegetables in butter and adding them. Soup is thickened, and the grease, sliould there be any, neutralised (that is, ab- sorbed) by mixing from a tea-spoonful to a tea-cupful of flour, according to the quantity, with a little water, very smoothly, forming it at first into a paste, and then adding the soup by degrees in a basin until it becomes thin: the portion thus prepared must then be mixed with the whole, and boiled up, or otherwise there will be a raw taste from the flour. This operation re- quires skill and judgment, for the presence of the Hour should never be detected : clear gravy soup must on no account have any flour put into it, as it would spoil the transparency. When soup is not rich enough, and is not to be served up with vegetables, mix a piece of butter with flour into a paste, using only as much flour as will prevent the butter from oiling, and taking care to in- corporate it very completely; then put the butter into a small saucepan, adding gradually some of the soup, and then pour it into the soup-kettle and boil it all together. Soup which has been made with vegetables will not keep so long as that which is comjiosed solely of meat. Soup must not on any account be ])ut by in metal of any kind, Init poured into a freshly scalded earthen pan, and, if kept longer than a day, changed into a