CHAr. XXIII.] DAIRY. 4S1 by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor- tioning the thickness of the vat to the quantity, rather than having a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very different quality from that usually produced by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese for common family use will be very well produced by two meals of skim, and one of new milk; or. in good land, by the skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down, for winter use, but not to interfere with the cheese, as above, which will not take much time. TO PREPARE RENNET TO TURN THE MILK. Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up with two good handsful of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted; or keep it in the salt Avet, and soak a bit, which Avill do over and over by fresh water. ANOTHER WAV. Clean the maAv as above; next day take two quarts of fresh spring Avatcr, and put into it a handful of haw- thorn-tops, a handful of sweet-brier, a handful of rose- leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoons- ful of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of Avater; strain it off; and, when only milk-Avarm, pour it on the veil (that is the maAv). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand tAvo days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little Avill do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it Avill