181 PIES. Chap, x.] pan; lay the leaven in it before the fire to rise, and slit it on the top. As soon as the paste has risen proceed thus:—Make a hole in the middle of the remaining flour, put into it a little salt, about a salt-spoonful, the same quantity of powdered sugar to take off any bitter taste in the yeast, and a little water to melt it; the butter broken into small pieces, and the eggs; work it all well together, and knead it thoroughly, spreading it out and working it well: then spread it out entirely, and lay the yeast or leavened paste all over it, taking the greatest care in kneading and shifting the paste about to mix both intimately together. It will take some time, and must be tboroughly accomplished. When completed, flour a towel, wrap the paste up in it, and put it into a pan; if in cold weather in a warm situation, and if in hot weather in a cold one. It is best made a day before it is wanted. Very minute pieces, shaped in any way, add greatly to the excellence of soup, to be boiled with it, or stewed in the gravy of a vol-au-vent, and strewed over the top. It is cut into shapes also, and fried as the accompaniment of braised dishes of every kind. It is an exquisite case for lobster and other patties, or, brushed over with egg, may be fried in shapes for a side dish ; or it may be- boiled in cups, six in a dish, and served up with asparagus cut small and heaped upon the top, and a white sauce round. In fact, a clever cook, by employing different flavouring ingredients, either sweet or savoury, may make endless dishes of brioche. It should not, however, predominate, as is sometimes the case at tables, where everything appears to have been cooked in a kettle of white soup, &c., or garnished with brioche ; and therefore it is best to make only a small quantity at a time, where the consumption of the family is not great. It will not keep long. VEAL PIE.-E. U. The best part of veal for this purpose is the breast; cut it into pieces and put it into a stewpan, with an onion, a stick of celery, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a