DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xv. 304 they have boiled the quarter of an hour, as before stated, then take them off the fire and scoop out all the pulp of each lime ; wash them well, and put each into cold water as it is done, in order that they may become firm : allow them 'to remain four hours in the cold water. Then make the syrup thus :—take two seers (four pounds) of sugar, the whites of three eggs, add a little water, and boil it all well, taking care to skim it well. When suffi- ciently done, take the syrup off the fire, dry the limes from all moisture, and, when the syrup is cold, put them into it. Should it be desirable to fill up the limes, take some large lemons, and, after peeling, soak the peel in water for a short time, boil the peel for a quarter of an hour, and then cut it into small shreds, boil the juice with an equal weight of sugar until it is thick; then add the shredded peel, and fill the limes when cold. If a dry preserve be wanted, boil up tbe limes after they have been taken out of the cold water in a thin syrup, allow them to grow cold, then boil them in much thicker syrup till it candies, and powder them well on the outside with dried sugar, filling the interior with a syrup mixed with lime-juice which will candy; dry them in the siin, and let them get cold before putting away. TO PRESERVE LIME-JUICE.—E. R. Take any quantity of fresh lime-juice, strain it through a fine cloth, put it into an earthen vessel, and evaporate in a sand-bath, or over a gentle fire, constantly stirring it until it acquires the consistence of a f.hick syrup. This kept in small bottles will for years preserve the flavour of the lime. Tamarind-juice may be preserved the same way, and will be found exceedingly useful, being excel- lent in punch or sherbet, and invaluable as a fever drink. TO PRESERVE RED TAM.VRINDS.—E. R. Take off the outer peel, and then split the tamarinds lengthways, in order to take out the seeds- Take four times their weight of sugar, after the seeds have been