76 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. in. the sirloin and ribs: the harder this is the older, and the flesh is not finely flavoured. Veal.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having become so by frequent bleeding and licking chalk. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed; but any other colour shows it to be stale. The other parts should he dry and white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and had. The kidney turns first, and the suet will not then be firm. 3Iutt07i.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young : for if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age ; but this only holds with wether-mutton. The flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer; hut the meat is not so rich or well flavoured, nor is the gravy' so fine. Ram-mutton is very strong flavoured, the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy- Wether is distinguished like- wise by a knob of fat on the leg, ■where, in ewe-mutton, is the udder. La7iib-—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter: if the vein is bluish, it is fi-esh ; if it has a green or yello'w cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale- If the eyes be sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass lamb comes into season in April or May, and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in highest perfection in Decem- ber and .lanuary. Pork.—Pinch the lean, and if young it Avill break- If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is old- A thin rind is a merit in all pork : and pigs that are short in the legs and bodies, and have thickness in the neck, and not long heads and ears, arc always to be preferred. When fresh, the flesh ■will be smooth and dry : if clammy, it is tainted. What