348 DOMESriC COOKERY. [Chap. xvii. tub, place a board over it, and weights upon that; leave it so for about a fortnight, then take it out and hang it in the kitchen to dry, which will generally take about three weeks. Some persons leave it for a longer time in the tub, which they merely cover without the weight; but the above is the better way. THE METHOD OF CURING MARINES BACON, SO MUCH ADMIRED FOR ITS FINE FLAVOUR.—E. R. Cut off the hams and head of a pig, if a large one; take out the chine and leave in the spare-rib, as they will keep in the gravy and prevent the bacon from rust- ing. Salt it first with common salt, and let it lie for a day on a table that the blood may run from it; then make a brine with a pint of bay-salt, a quarter of a peck of common salt, and about a quarter of a pound of juni- per-berries, and some bay-leaves, with as much water as will, when the brine is made, cover the bacon; when the salt is dissolved, and when quite cold, if a new-laid egg will swim in it, the brine may be put on the bacon, which after a week must be rubbed wdth the following mixture :—Half a pound of saltpetre, two ounces of sal- prunella, and one pound of coarse sugar, which after remaining four weeks, may be hung up in a chimney w'here wood is burned; shavings, wnth saw-dust and a small quantity of turf, may be added at times. THE BLACK POOL RECEIPT FOR CURING B.VCON.—E. R. For a middling-sized hog take twelve pounds of the best common salt, and one pound of saltpetre pounded very finely ; rub it in well, and cover the meat about an inch thick, hams, chops, and all, placing it with the rind downwards. J^et it remain for a week; then take off the salt, turn the whole with the rind upwards, then lay the salt on again for another week. Then remove the salt, and turn it a second time; lay on the salt and let it remain four days longer. It will then be properly salted. Wipe it clean, rub it all over with dry salt, and hang it, where it will have a little air of the fire, until it