ME.-VT. Chap, m.] 73 George the Third, though proverbial for the plain na- ture of his table, living almost wholly upon roasts and boils, was an epicure in bis way, and kept cooks who dressed his beef and mutton to perfection. Meat sent to his table was ])ut,' in the first instance, at so great a distance from the fire, that six hours were required to roast a joint which, in other kitchens, would have been only subjected to the action of heat for half the time. By this method the juices were preserved, and the meat thoroughly done in every part, was exquisitely tender. Ordinary cooks have, however, an abhorrence of so tedious a process ; and it is, consequently, very seldom that a large joint is properly prepared for the table. All meats should be well basted at first with milk and water, and when the dripping begins to fall, the cook should empty the pan and wipe it out. The joint must then be basted in its own liquor, and, when about three parts done, sprinkled with salt, and dredged with flour: this latter process must not be delayed too long, for unless the flour be added early enough to imbibe the gravy and get nicely browned, it will have a disagreeable raw, or burnt taste : if the salt be added too soon it will draw out the gravy. When there is only a small quantity of fat, it should be preserved by skewering a paper over it, or it will waste in the roasting. Cradle spits are pre- ferable to common spits, and both must be well wiped before using, while it is advisable to heat the common spit. In winter, if meat or vegetables should be touched by the frost, they are to be tbawed by soaking in cold water for two or three hours; if much frost-bitten, a longer period will be necessary. Boiled meat, unless cooked slowly, simmered in fat, and kept for a long time upon the fire before it is al- lowed to come to a boil, will be bard and tasteless; for the portion of the meat consisting of the albumen, if once set like the white of an egg, cannot afterwards be rendered less indigestible by any culinary process. Care and attention are very necessary even in the most sim- ple operation of cooking, the general fault in boiling