DOMESTIC COOKERY. 182 [Chap. x. small quantity of water; when warmed through add more water, and stew it gently until it is enough. By this means two pounds of veal will yield a quart of fine white stock, which will jelly: let it remain until cold, and then take off all the fat; take out the long bones and all the skin, season it well, and pile it lightly in the pie-dish, having lined the sides with paste. Boil four or six eggs hard, and put them in ; pound some ham or gammon of bacon in a mortar, make them up into small balls with a little butter, and add them (bacon or ham in slices always being hard); add also some forcemeat- halls ; fill up the pie with the stock, which should be flavoured with a small quantity of ketchup, Chetney, or other sauce. Reserve a portion of the stock thus pre- pared, and pour it hot into the pie, when it comes from the oven, to supply the waste. This will be most excel- lent cold, as it will be perfectly free from all greasy par- ticles, and the meat tender, which wdll not be the case unless previously stewed. A COLD VEAL PIE.—E. R. Take some of the fleshy part of a knuckle of veal, with an equal quantity of minced ham; season it with salt, pepper, spices, and aromatic herbs chopped, and a sqiall clove of garlic or shalot; pound them in a mortar, adding eggs and an equal quantity of gravy. Cover the bottom of a pan with thin slices of bacon; lay a little of the forcemeat upon it; lay some cutlets of veal over the forcemeat, seasoning them w'ith pepper and minced mushrooms; in this manner fill to the top, covering the whole with forcemeat. After baking for an hour, let it cool. Have paste prepared about an inch in thick- ness ; make it round upon buttered paper, sprinkling a little flour on the paste; then take the meat from the pan, which should be plunged in hot water to detach it easily; place it in the jiaste, covering it at the top with a crust half an inch thick, and leaving a hole in the middle. Glaze, and put it into a very hot oven ; let it bake three or four hours; when sufficiently done, a