DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ii. 40 serving up fish. If, for the sake of the appearance of the table, boiled fish should be sent up covered, care should be taken, by lifting up the covers a little, to allow the egress of the steam. Moreover, the practice of put- ting boiled and fried fish upon the same dish cannot be too strongly reprobated ; while garnishing hot fish with cold parsley is abominable. Sometimes all these barbarities are committed at one and the same time, and the removal of the covers exhibits boiled and fried fish, surrounded by raw parsley, the fried fish deprived of all its crispness from contact with the boiled, and both made sodden by the fiill of the condensed steam from the cover. The indiscriminate waste of raw pars- ley is much to be lamented by all lovers of an herb which harmonises so well with fish. When used as a garnish to hot fish, it should be boiled, pressed in a cloth, chopped finely, and placed in small heaps round the outer edge of the dish, beyond the napkin. The guests may then, if they please, mix it with their sauce , but in the present neglect of the fine old-fashioned pars- ley and butter sauce, which invariably accompanied boiled fish and boiled meat, there is no possibility of getting it, except in a crude and raw state, d-/a-Nebu- chadnezzar.—E. R.] Fish prepared or dressed in fillets or cutlets will re- quire a fish gravy. Take out all the bones, cut off the head and tails, and if this should not be sufficient, add a flounder, an eel, or any small common fish; stew them with an onion, jtejiper, salt, and sweet herbs; strain it, and thicken it to the consistence of cream, flavouring with a slight addition of wine or any other sauce. Forcemeat for fish should be made with a por- tion of any kind that is cooked, or of small fish, with the addition of an anchovy or two, boned, shrimps, or ' a little lobster. Put it into a mortar, mix it up M"ith i grated or soaked bread-crumbs, in nearly equal quan- tities, a little clarified butter, or pounded bacon fat, or i suet; a slight seasoning of spice, and an egg to bind. I This forcemeat is susceptible of great variety : it may |