31 SOUPS. Chap, i.] all the time till it is reduced to the thickness of a very thick syrup. Take the utmost care it does not burn, for a moment’s inattention at this stage would lose all the previous labour, and spoil the soup. Take a little out in a spoon, allow it to cool; if it sets into a strong jelly it is done enough, if it does not, boil it a little longer until it will jelly. Have ready some small pre- serving-pots, let them be quite dry, pour the soup into them, and let them stand until the next day. Set a large flat-bottomed stewpan, one-third part tilled with boiling water, over a slow fire; place the pots of soup in this, taking care that the water does not reach the rim of any, within two inches of the top. Let the pots stand uncovered in this water, hot, ■without boiling, for six or seven hours. This is the only way of bringing the soup to a proper thickness; it was before boiled up as high as it could be over the naked fire, without burning; but that is insufiicient without the aid of a water-bath, which is necessary to reduce it to the thickness of a stiff" jelly whilst hot, which is the only way to ensure its being perfectly fine when cold. It will be now of the con- sistence of thick, hard glue, and will remain good for many months if kept in a cool dry ]>lace. Ohs. The uses of this concentrated essence of meat are numerous. As a general keeping stock it is the most convenient basis for making extensive broths; soups, gravies, and sauces. To make a pint of broth, pour a pint of boiling water upon a piece of the souj) the size of a small walnut, stir it till it is melted, add a little salt, and the broth is ready. If there should be time and opportunity, there being no seasoning in the souj) either of herb or spice, boil a little parsley, thyme, half an onion, and half a dozen peppercorns in the water used to melt the soup : this will produce excellent broth. An ounce of soup melted in a quart of gravy will be just the same as the quart of gravy before being boiled away, and it will always produce coiisornvie of any degree of richness.