289 CURRY. Chap, xv.] cacy, the Delhi cooks perfectly understanding the French method, and boiling it in dilFerent waters until it is as mild as almonds. It is then placed whole in the Chet- ney. A mixture of sugar, curds, and raisins, in savoury dishes, is also a peculiarity of Oriental cookery; and Lucknow especially is celebrated for its sweet pickles. In the native cookery of India, the Mohammedan, gene- rally speaking, far excels that of the Hindoo, in which the absence of meat is too abundantly supplied with ghee (clarified butter). The Madras brahmins, how- ever, are famous for their vegetable curries, and Eu- ropeans soon acquire a taste for the butter and onions which form so essential a portion of all. The following receipts are those which have been adapted to English tables by gastronomes of eminence. As a slight devia- tion in the ingredients, in dressing of a curry, makes an amazing difference in the flavour, many receipts, bear- ing great names, are given, which can be well authenti- cated as genuine. Several of the polaos or pillaws have been brought to perfection by the officers of Gar- diner’s Horse, a native corps of irregular cavalry, in which the few Europeans, who are attached to it, live very much in the Mohammedan fashion. The author has in her possession a book of receipts translated from the original Persian, written out expressly for her use by the khansamah of the late King of Oude, but not being suited to an English table, they do not appear. Note.—An exception has been made in favour of pickled lemons, which is worthy of a trial, being very good in India. THE KING OF OUDE’S CURRY.—E. R. Take half a pound of fresh butter, two large onions, a gill of good gravy (veal is the best), one large pressed table-spoonful of curry-powder; add to these ingre- dients any kind of meat cut into pieces. Put the whole into a stewpan, cover it close, and gently simmer for two hours. When ready to serve up, squeeze as much lemon- juice as will give it an acid flavour. u