[Chap. m. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 74 being that of allowing meat to come to a boil too soon at first, and permitting it to go off the boil afterwards. The pot should be watched and skimmed very fre- quently, and very thoroughly, or otherwise the scum will fall again, and stick to the meat: add cold water after each skimming, as this will occasion the whole of the scum to rise. All meat should be put into cold water, a quart of water being the allowance for every pound of meat, and the size of the saucepan so proportioned that no extra quantity of water will be necessary to cover the meat. It should be kept closely covered, and a joint of ten pounds weight should be at least forty minutes upon the fire before permitted to come to a boil. The average for meat thoroughly cooked is twenty minutes to the pound, salt meat requiring three or four minutes longer. Boiled fowls, when found to be discoloured, should be smothered nith sauce. Salt beef, hams, and tongues, and even pork, if kept long in pickle, will require to be soaked before they are boded, the length of time to be proportioned to their dryness: if very hard, warm water should be used. A ham of twenty pounds weight will take five hours and a half to boil properly; a large tongue, if dry, should be boiled slowly for at least four hours; and both ham and beef may be baked with very great advantage. By this process, slow cooking is ensured, and the juices of the meat are concentrated. By putting a certain quan- tity of suet into the pan in which the ham is baked, and covering the top with coarse paste or folds of j)aper, the flavour is much improved; the gravy coming from the meat will be a jelly, which, though too salt to be eaten alone, will mix admirably with any kind of stock, or may be made into essence of ham. The oven is a very economical substitute ibr the saucepan, where there is no steam apparatus. When meat is boiled by steam, no water should be put into the vessel unless required for soup. Meat boiled in the ordinary way should not be allowed to touch the bottom of the vessel; a plate put upside down, on some skewers laid across, will be suffi-