THE SKELETON. 21 upper limb, as already stated, both bones of the forearm touch the humerus at the elbow; but only one, the radius, touches the carpus at the wrist. In the lower limb, however, one bone only, the tibia, touches the femur at the knee ; whilst both bones touch the upper bone of the foot, at the ankle. The foot, like the hand, is divisible into three component parts, which are here named the tarsus, the metatarsus, and the phalanges of the toes. The tarsus {rapaos, the broad portion of the foot), T7, which includes the ankle, heel and instep, is much more massive than the carpus or wrist; the metatarsus {ixird, meta, beyond ; rapaos, tarsos, the instep), Mi5, is longer and stronger than the metacarpus in the hand; whilst the phalanges of the toes {(pdXay^, phalanx, a rank of soldiers), P'u, are shorter than those of the fingers and thumb, and in the case of the four outer toes, though not in that of the great toe, much smaller and more slender. The tarsus is composed of seven bones, not of eight like the carpus, which are short and strong ; they are not arranged in two distinct rows, as in the carpus, but rather in two groups. The first or highest bone is named the astragalus (aarpdjnkos, astragalos, the ankle- bone, or a die; perhaps because these bones, in the sheep, were, wlien marked with spots or stars, on four sides, used in a Greek game, as dice, dar^p, aster, a star, and dydWsiv, agallein, to mark), figs. 4 and 5, a ; it alone of the tarsal bones, enters with the tibia and fibula, into the formation of the strong ankle-joint. Immediately below the astragalus, supporting it, and articulated with it, very firmly, is the largest boue of the tarsus, the os calcis, calcaneum or heel-bone {calx, calcaneum, the heel), c ; through this characteristic bone of the foot, the weight of the body is mainly transmitted from the astragalus downwards to the ground. The astragalus and os calcis form the hinder of the two groups of tarsal bones. Next in order, on the inner or tibial border of the foot, is found the scaphoid or navicular bone {aKd^r}, skaphe, navicala, a boat or wherry), s, which is connected by a freely moveable joint with the astragalus behind, sometimes with the so-called cuboid bone on its outer side, and very closely with three other tarsal bones in front; *moreover, it lies across the upper surface of the foot, where it forms the highest part of the instep. The three bones immediately in front of the scaphoid, and connected firmly with it, are named from their shape the cuneiform or wedge-shaped bones {cuneus, a wedge; forma, form), and, moreover, are designated, beginning on the inner or tibial border of the foot, eithev first, second aiad third, or internal c'", middle c", and external c', cuneiform ; they serve to support respectively, the metatarsal bones of the first, second, and third toes. On the outer side of the third or external cuneiform bone, is the remaining bone of the tarsus, named the cuboid bone (kv^os, a cube; slSos, form), cu, which forms the fibular border of this part of the foot, and is connected behind, by a slightly moveable joint, with the os calcis, sometimes, at one corner, with the scaphoid, and in front, very firmly, with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. The cuboid, the three cuneiform, and the tcaphoid bones, form the anterior group