THE STRUCTUEE AND ACTION OF THE MUSCLES. 249 formerly said to depend on a particular constituent named osm.azome; but this is a very complex substance. Living muscular tissue is not only soft but strong, flexible, and -^ry extensible and elastic, qualities which are of essential service in the economy. Its living elasticity is more or less dependent on a form of slight vital contrac- tility, known as tonicity; but its characteristic property, also vital or vito- physical, not merely physical, is that of contractility. This property is possessed by all muscular fibres, whether voluntary or involuntary, by certain simple microscopical tissue elements and organisms, such as the microscopic cilia, the colourless blood corpuscles, the amoeboid animalcules, and, indeed, by all active protoplasm, whether animal or vegetable. It is the cause or source of all automatic movements in animals and plants. It consists, essentially, in a peculiar intrinsic re-arrawgement of the molecules of the contractile mass. In the simplest cases, this change occurs slowly and irregularly; in others, ' slowly and more regularly; 'and, again, in others, rapidly and very regularly. In a voluntary muscular fibre, with its highly complicated organisation of discs or rows of sarcous elements, containing internal systems of rods, the change of form, due to the re-arrangement of their molecules, is definite in direction, and very rapid in its operation. It results, invariably, in an alteration in the shape and proximity of the rods, in a widening out of the sarcous cylinders or discs of cylinders, and an approximation of their ends, h. Concurring in all the sarcous cylinders of a disc, and in those of the adjacent discs, it produces a shortening of the corresponding fibre from end to end, accompanied by a thickening m it^ diameter. In a contracting fibre, fig. 118, ^, just below the ends of the sarcous cylinders and discs approach each other, whilst their sides become more remote; hence, the transverse striae become finer, and closer together, than in the quiescent fibre. In these changes, the tubular sheath or sarcolemma, c, appears to take no part, though its elasticity may help to restore the fibre to its original shape, as it again relaxes. The contraction of a given fibre may commence at one end, or at one or more intermediate points. As seen under a microscope, in the fibres of a cold-blooded animal, and when the fibre is losing its rapidity of action, such a point becomes darker than the rest; the change spreads across the fibre, and is then seen to be propagated, in a wavelike manner, along the magnified fibre, parts of which may be observed in action, and parts in a condition of relaxation. Under the galvanic stimulus, a single act of contraction, including the return to a state of relaxation, occupies about jV^h of a second ; and, probably, ten waves in a second, blended together, by the effects of tension and elaftic recoil, would be enough to produce a continuous effect, and give rise to a definite gentle contraction; but, in active exertion, as indicated by experi- ment, at least twenty such waves may occur in each second. The rate at which the waves move along the fibre, appears to vary from