THE MOVEABLE JOINTS. 203 The simple Planiform or Gliding Joints, or Arthrodia {dpOpov, a joint).—These are the most common in the body. They vary in the degree of simplicity of their surfaces. None of them are actually flat or plane, as there is no true plane surface in the body; some have slightly convex, or concave surfaces; others are undulating or concavo-convex; whilst some manifest a transition to trochlear, or even to pivot joints. The ligaments of these gliding joints are placed in such positions, as to resist the forces which act most strongly on the joint. In the limbs, strong tendons often support the ligaments. Gliding joints occur in most of the articulations of the metatarsus and tarsus, that is, with the exception of the joint between the scaphoid and the astragalus ; in the articulations between the bones of the leg; in those between the articular processes of the spine, including those between the atlas and the occiput, which latter are so concave and convex, as to resemble ball-and-socket joints; in all the articulations of the thorax ; in those at both ends of the collar bone ; in that between the lower ends of the radius and ulna; in those of the carpus and metacarpus, except that of the os magnum with the scaphoid and semilunar bone, and that between the trapezium and the first metacarpal bone. Finally, the articulations of the lower jaw with the tem- poral bones, may here be mentioned ; but, from the marked convexity of the condyles of the jaw, and the depth of the glenoid cavities of the temporal bone?, these joints somewhat resemble both the hinge and the ball-and-socket joints. The movements in these gliding joints, though simple, confer elasticity on certain parts, and permit of slight, though more or less important changes of position and form in others, giving rise to movements simulating those of the more moveable articulations. The Pulley-like or Trochlear Joints {trochlea, a pulley; -rpoyos, a wheel). Hinge Joints or Ginglymoid Articulations {yijjXvixos, a hinge).—These are not so numerous as the planiform joints. In them, the end of one bone is fashioned into a median groove or pulley, with two lateral prominent borders, or condyles, whilst that of the other has a median ridge, and two lateral concavities; but the surfaces are sometimes otherwise adapted by complex opposing curves. They admit of free move- ments in one plane only, but, of course, in two directions, namely, forwards and backwards, usually named Jlexion and extension. Always, some degree of lateral motion is permitted, in certain positions of the joint. The essen- tial to and fro motion in these joints is, however, limited and chaiacteristic. Their strongest ligaments are placed at the sides of the joints, but behind the axis of motion, or else on the aspect of flexion, or that towards which the joint may be bent. It is at these joints, that muscular fibres are often con-