71 THE HIP-BONE. position, this part is not placed horizontally, but obliquely. At its inner and anterior end, it expands into a broad flattened portion, sometimes regarded as the body of the pubes, which meets, at the so-called symphysis, the correspond- ing portion of the opposite pubic bone, thus completing the hip girdle in front. From this part, the bone again becomes more slender, and is prolonged, in a gently curved direction, downwards, outwards and backwards, as the descending ramus of the pubes. The end of this ramus meets, and coalesces firmly, along an oblique elevation running downwards, outwards and back- wards, with the ascending ramus of the ischium. The two rami of the pubes, horizontal and descending, bound the obtiuator foramen above and in front; the descending ramus forms, with the ascending ramus of the ischium, the corresponding side of the pubic arch, the free margin of which, is more or less everted. The ilio-pectineal eminence, indicating the line of junction of the pubes with the ilium, above the upper and inner part of the acetabulum, is continuous with a smooth surface, slightly excavated from without inwards, forming the horizontal ramus of the upper side of the pubes, and bounded posteriorly by a sharp ridge, named the peden (pecten, a comb). This ridge, becoming blunter, may be traced on to the inner surface of the ilium, the entire line being called the ilio^ectineal line, and corresponding with the brim of tlie true pelvis. The under side or surface of the horizontal ramus overhangs the obturator foramen, and presents, on its otherwise sharp margin, a deep groove for blood-vessels; the hinder surface is turned towards the pelvic cavity. On tracing the upper or pectineal surface inwards towards the symphysis, a well-marked, although small eminence is met with, named the spinous process or spine of the pubes ; extending from this inwards, is a part of the upper border of the bone, named the crest, which again terminates, at its inner end, in the angle. From the angle downwards, is an oval articular surface, marked by irregular transverse grooves and ridges, which, encrusted by a closely fitting interarticular fibro-cartilage, is united by that, and by ligaments, to a correspondingly grooved, ridged and fibro-cartilaginous surface on the fellow bone, forming the junction known as the symphysis of the pubes. The symphysis is about 1^ inch in depth ; below it, the descending rami of the two pubic bones form the arch of the pubes. The posterior surface of the pubic bones is directed backwards and upwards. The pubic bone has numerous muscles and tendons connected with it. The obturator internus, and the obturator externus, the one within, the other outside the pelvis, arise partly from the pubic portion of the border of the obturator foramen ; a very small portion of the adductor magnus takes origin from nearly the whole of the descending ramus ; from the inner or lower border of the ramus, arises the gracilis; above this, and parallel with the ramus and symphysis, is the thin origin of the adductor brevis ; from just be- neath the spine and crest, proceeds the narrow tfendon of the adductor longus ;