xi LIST OF ILLUSTEATIONS. FIG. PAGE 81. Articular surfaces of the Os Oalcis and Astralagus belonging to the Transverse Joint of the Tarsus; the Ankle Joint laid open in front . . . . . 21o 82. Vertical transverse section through the Astragalo-calcaneal Joint, and the Ankle Joint 215 83. The Knee Joint laid open. Front view, with the patella turned down, showing its articular surface, a part of the extensor tendon, and the ligamentum mucosum . 217 84. The Knee Joint laid open. Back view, showing the crucial ligaments, and posterior margins of the semilunar fihro-cartilages . . . . . . . . 217 85. The Knee Joint laid open. Front view, the femur thrown a little hack, the patella, with the greater part of its ligament, having been removed ; it shows the crucial ligaments and anterior margins of the semilunar fibro-cartilages . . . . 217 86. Vertical median section through the Knee Joint, showing the bones covered with articular cartilage, the posterior ligament, the posterior crucial ligament, a part of the anterior crucial ligament, and the ligamentum patellse, with the bursa between it and the Tibia 219 87. Vertical section through the Knee Joint, made to the outer side of the middle line. 219 88. The Hip Joint seen from the front, and laid open, showing the acetabulum, the cotyloid ligament, and the ligamentum teres 222 89. The joint seen from the front and closed, showing the capsule, and the accessoi-y ligaments; also the sj'mphysis pubis, and the ohtm-ator membrane . . . 222 90. Vertical Section through the Hip Joint, showing the structure of the bones, the encrusting cartilage, the ligamentum teres, and the loose, folded capsule . . 223 91. Vertical median section through the dorsi-lumbar region of the Spine, showing tlie intervertebral discs, the capsular ligaments, and the inter- and supra-spinous ligaments ; also a part of the spinal canal 226 92. Upper view of a lumbar vertebra, with transverse section of its intervertebral disc 226 93. Front view of foui- dorsal, and three lumbar vertebrae, showing the anterior com- mon ligament, and the edges of the intervertebral discs; it also shows the costo- vertebral ligaments 226 94. Posterior view of the bodies of four vertebrse, one dorsal and three lumbar, to show posterior common ligament 227 95. Anterior view of the arches of the same vertebrae, to show the ligamenta subflava between the laminae . 227 96. Posterior view of the transverse atlanto-axial ligament, and its upward and down- ward slips, constituting the cruciform ligament 228 97. Posterior view of the occipito-axial or odontoid ligaments, namely, the central ligament, and the two alar, or check ligaments ....... 228 08. The Ligaments of the Sternal, Sterno-clavicular, and Scapulo-clavicidar articula- tions, and those of the Shoulder-joint. The left sterno-clavicular joint is opened to show the interarticular fibro-cartilage. Tendons of capsular muscles are seen on the shoidder-joint ' . ' 232 99. The Shoulder Joint opened. Front view, showing the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle, crossing the articular cavity; also the coraco-clavicular and the acromio-clavicular ligaments 234 100. The Shoulder Joint opened. Back view, showing the loose capsule, and the pro- portionally larger part of the head of the humerus; also a smaU piece of the biceps tendon 234 101. The Shoulder Joint opened. Vertical section through the joint, showing the bones, the encrusting cartilage, the biceps tendon, and the loose capsule . . 234 102. The Ligaments of the Elbow, and Superior Radio-uluar Joints. Front view, showing the anterior and lateral ligaments . 236