41 THE BONES OF THE FOOT. two shallow grooves, an upper one for the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and a lower one for that of the peroneus longus, as these pass forwards, from the lower end of the fibula to the outer border of the foot; near the fore-part of this surface, is another tubercle, for the origin of the short extensor muscle of the toes. The inner surface of the os calcis, is deeply hollowed, in front of the internal tuberosity of the heel, for the reception and protection of tendons, vessels, and nerves, passing obliquely from the leg into the sole of the foot; but in front of, and above, this hollowed part, its upper margin presents a re- markable, and very strong process, projecting inwards, named the sustenta- culum tali (the support of the astragalus), or lesser process of the os calcis. The sustentaculum is curved upwards and inwards, receives tlie under part of the head of the astragalus, and gives attachment to a very strong ligament which here passes forwards to the scaphoid bone. Into it, also, a slip of the tendon of the tibialis posticus is inserted ; whilst, beneath it, are special Fig. 11.—The iipper surface of the FiG. 12.—The front view of the As- Os calcis, c, and the under surface tragalus, «,with the Scaphoid, s, re- of the Astragalus, «. Eight foot. moved from it aird seen from above. The asterisks and lines, indicate the points of contact of the bones when in their natural position. well-marked grooves for the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe, and that of the long flexor of the other toes. Lastly, upon its upper aspect, fig. 11, c, the os calcis presents two articu- lar surfaces separated by a deep groove, namely, a hinder larger one, situated about the middle of the bone, oblong from behind forwards and outwards, convex from before backwards, but nearly flat from side to side ; and an anterior internal smaller one, placed over the sustentaculum tali, narrow, lengthened and concave from behind forwards ai^d outwards, and sometimes divided by a slight ridge into two parts. To these two articular surfaces, are adapted two corresponding surfaces on the under aspect of the astragalus, a. The groove between them, lodges and gives attachment to, a very strong in- terosseous ligament. Behind these surfaces, the os calcis projects downwards and backwards towards the prominence of the heel, presenting a slight con- cavity above, in front of the tendo Achillis. The astragalus, figs. 7 to 10, which is next, in point of size, to the os calcis, rests on and covers rather more than the anterior part of that bone,