THE BONES. 54 surface of the leg. Its anterior undulating boundary line might be termed the anterior tibial furrow, and the posterior undulating boundary, the pos- terior tibial furrow. Thirdly, at the upper end of the bone, is the anterior tuberosity, forming, when obscured by the attachment of the lower end of the ligamentum patellae, and covered by the integuments, a nearly vertical ovoid eminence, wider above than below, directed outwards as well as forwards, and marked off, by slight depressions on either side, from the prominences of the two lateral tuberosities. It is on the anterior tuberosity, that the weight of the body is mainly sustained, in kneeling upon a firm substance without any support for the body in front, and not on the knee-pan, as might be supposed. Lastly, the lateral tuberosities constitute parts of the recognisable surface- forms, just below the knee. The internal tuberosity is broader and smoother, crowns the subcutaneous part of the shaft below, and is softened in its outline and surface, by the expanded tendons of the inner hamstring muscles. The ex- ternal tuberosity is narrower but more prominent, and is less obscured, having merely ligameat, fascia and skin, covering it; it overhangs the somewhat pointed united origins of the tibialis anticus and extensor communis digitorum muscles, which, when in action, change the otherwise projecting form produced by the tuberosity into a depression. The rest of the tibia is concealed by muscles, and has no direct relation to the surface-forms. The lower end of the fibula, or external malleolus, presents, unlike the internal one, a narrow elongated prominence, which tapers upwards about three or four inches, and then disapjoeai-s, where the peroneus tertius diverges from the two other peronei muscles; it is much more projecting and ridge-like than the internal malleolus ; it lies nearer to the hinder border of the leg, and therefore closer to the large tendo Achillis, and it reaches nearer to the ground; its posterior boundary is straight, corresponding with the vertical portion of the tendons of the long and short peronei muscles, which are in imme- diate contact with it, whilst its anterior limit is more curved; the lower end of this surface-form points a little backwards. It will be noted that it differs from the internal malleolus in size, shape, degree of prominence, height from the groimd, and in the general direction of its apex. The small, prominent, head of the fibula, is also near the surface, being both felt and seen behind and to the outer side of the head of the tibia, slightly above the level of the anterior tuberosity of that bone. Although partly covered by the origins of the peronei and soleus muscles, in front and behind, it forms, when these are relaxed, a decidedly marked, short, and somewhat triangular eminence, with its base uppermost; when, however, the muscles are in action, this eminence is replaced by a correspondingly shaped depression, which terminates below in a linear groove between them. The continuation of this groove downwards between the soleus and the peronei muscles, towards the hinder border of the external malleolus, may be designated the peroneal furrow. The head of the