SUEFACE-FORMS OF THE NECK, HEAD, AND FACE. 417 very pronounced and characteristic, being especially prominent in aged women. From a point below the angle of the jaw, the external jugular vein courses, in an oblique direction, backwards over the sterno-mastoid eleva- tion, and, frequently exhibiting a distinct bulging about the middle of its course, sinks behind the outer border of that muscle, in the lower part of the posterior triangular depression of the neck ; smaller anterior jugular veins are sometimes seen descending in front of the throat. The masticatory muscles, placed on the side of the cranium and face, decidedly influence the surface forms. The temporal muscle, confined by its strong fascia, and, to a great extent, hidden by the hairy scalp, fills up the temporal fossa, and substitutes for it, a slightly convex surface, the anterior border of which, visible on the temple, is marked or obscure, according as the muscle is in action or at rest. The masseter muscle imparts breadth and fulness to the hinder portion of the cheek, its lower fleshy part producing a distinct form, separated from the malar eminence above, by a flattened space, corresponding with its upper tendinous portion; this fulness is markedly increased by the extension forwards of the parotid gland. The masseter form, moreover, becomes strikingly pronounced, when the teeth are set, as in rage, its anterior border declaring itself as a strongly marked, vertical ridge; whilst, with the widely opened mouth, seen in extreme horror, the muscle asserts itself by producing a long flattened plane. The buccinator muscle is concealed by fat, which abounds in this part, and which, in the chubby-cheeked school-boy, may here be pulled away from the parts beneath. The epicranial muscles, like the temporal muscles, chiefly hidden by the hairy scalp, are, everywhere, so thin, in both their fleshy and their tendinous portions, that the osseous forms beneath them are revealed on the surface. The auricular muscles, and, most evidently, the ocular group, have no direct effect on the superficial forms. The palpebral muscles help to cover in the orbit, and to smooth over the supra-, extra-, and infra-orbital borders. The nasal group clothes the bones of the nose, and, moreover, the pyramidalis nasi, descending from the forehead to the bridge of the nose, plays the im- portant part of filling in the deep notch existing in the cranium, below the glabella, and giving a more even and elegant profile here, in place of the disagreeable indentation seen in the skull. The celebrated Greek profile, though, in part, due to the form and relative position of the nasal and frontal bones, is also, in larger part, indebted to this muscle ; as is evident from an inspection of Grreek crania. The numerous labial muscles, converging from all sides, and blended around the mouth by, and with, the orbicular muscle, close up the sunken hollows of the lower part of the bony face, and, with the integuments, substitute for the grinning rows of teeth, the soft and mobile lips. The facial muscles give rise to no forms directly representing their E E