72 THE BONES. and outside tbis, from the pecten, and from the adjacent upper surface of the horizontal ramus as far as the spine, the pectineus muscle. Besides these muscles belonging to the thigh, others, connected with the trunk, are attached to the pubic bone ; the psoas parvus, when present, is inserted into a small part of the ilio-pectineal line close to the eminence so called; the rectus ab- dominis muscle is fixed to the upper border of the crest of the pubes and front of the symphysis ; in front of this, is the attachment of the pyramidalis ab- dominis, and of the linea alba of the abdominal aponeiu'osis ; in front of that, and extending as far as the pubic crest and pecten, is the insertion of the thin conjoined tendon of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen; lastly, to the angle is attached a portion of the tendon of the ex- ternal oblique muscle, and to the spine, another portion, forming the inner end of the strong band known as Poupart's ligament, which constitutes the boundary between the thigh and the abdomen. The Ilium.—The iliac portion of the hip-bone, or ilium, figs. 24, 27, the largest portion of the innominate bone, forms the most projecting lateral part of the pelvis, and the prominent crest which overhangs the hip-joint. From the upper part of the acetabulum, the ilium extends upwards, outwards, and backwards, as a broad three-sided column, and then speedily widen- ing out, and becoming thin, spreads, upwards and outwards, a little forwards, but much further backwards and downwards, thus forming a wing-like expan- sion, named the ala or wing, which again becomes thicker at its margins. The whole bone slants upwards and outwards, and presents an external and an internal surface, an anterior, a superior and a posterior border. The anterior border, jutting obliquely outwards and forwards, from the acetabulum to the outer side of the small depression opposite to the ilio-pectineal eminence, is first slightly concave, but soon rises into a distinct projection, named the anterior inferior spine, or spinous process, figs. 24, 27 ; above this, is a well-marked notch ; and above that, a second bony projection, named the anterior superior spinous process, or spine of the ilium, to which the outer end of Poupart's ligament is fixed. At this process, the thick superior border, called the crest, begins; convex f^om before backwards, but undulating from side to side, fig. 27, it rises up, as its name implies, and, at a distance of about two-thirds of its length from the anterior superior spine, again descends, until it terminates in the large posterior superior spinous process, or spine, figs. 25, 26. The crest is at first directed outwards, then inwards, and then outwards again. Moderately thick in front, it increases rapidly in thickness, then becomes thinner, but finally thickest behind, where it forms the posterior superior spine. Below this process, the posterior border of the bone begins, first pre- senting a small notch, beneath which, is the thinner and less prominent ^os^erior inferior spine ; below that, is a very deep incurvation, which extends on to the