THE THIGH-BONE. 57 shaft, and supports the head of the bone; it is also increased by a greater width of the pelvis, and by a diminution in the length of the bone itself. The degree of obliquity accordingly varies in different individuals. The shaft of the femur, smooth, excepting behind, is decidedly curved with an anterior convexity, figs. 22, 23, the most prominent point of the curve being about opposite the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the bone, so that the lower part appears less curved than the upper, and, indeed, becomes flattened in front. The shaft of the femm" is also slightly twisted, so that, whilst the anterior surface looks forwards and a little inwards in the lower two thirds of the bone, it looks forwards and outwards in the upper third. The concavity of the femoral curve behind, is less pronounced than the convexity in front, owing to the presence of a projecting longitudinal roughened ridge, named the linea aspera. The existence of this ridge causes the middle third of the shaft of the femm*, to be somewliat three-sided, but the posterior rough edge alone is well marked or prominent, the rest of the bony surface, includ- ing what may be called its outer and inner borders, being smooth, and rounded in front, though a little hollowed on its sides. This is seen on a transverse section of the bone, which further shows that tlie ridge of the linea aspera is formed by a special accumulation of compact bony tissue along the concave pobterior aspect of the femur, the medullary cavity retaining its more or less oval outline, but having more compact bone behind it than in front or at the sides; a longitudinal section displays the same structure. The linea aspera, fig. 20, presents, in the middle part of the bone, two raised edges or lips, and an intermediate longitudinal narrow space. These two lips diverge as they pass downwards, and are continued on either side, cur\'ing likewise backwards, down to the back of the external and interned tuberosities, on. the sides of the lower end of the femur ; the outer diverging lip is here distinctly marked throughout, and, between the two, is a broad flat triangular surface, named the pojjliteal surface. From a little below the upper third of the femur, the two lips of the linea aspera also diverge, so as to leave a wider space between them, and may be traced upwards towards the bases of the two bony processes, named the external and internal, or greater and lesser trochanters {rpoyos, a wheel). The shaft of the femur has the following muscles connected with it. Excepting for a distance of about three inches above the knee-joint, this part being free from muscular attachments, the crureus muscle occupies the rounded anterior, and the slightly hollowed outer surface of the bone ; beneath it, from a small part of the lower fourth of the anterior surface, arises the subcrureus; to the upper third of the inner smooth side of the shaft, and to nearly the whole length of the inner edge of the linea aspera, is fixed the broad vastus internus muscle; behind this, along the depression between the two lips, are inserted, at special points along the upper two-thirds of the shaft, the adductor longus, adductor brevis, and pectineus muscles, the first to the middle third of the linea aspera,