THE JOINTS. 234 yellowish, fibrous ring, attached, like the cotyloid ligament around the acetabulum, to tlie margin of the shallow, glenoid cavity, which it serves somewhat to deepen; its free edge is thin, but the side fixed to the bone is thicker ; at its upper part, it is blended with the long head of the biceps, figs. 99, 100, 101, and with some fibres of the capsule of the joint. Thecapsule, figs. 99 to 101, attached above, around the margin of the glenoid cavity, and below, to the neck of the humerus, reaches furthest down on the inner side of the bone. Its principal accessory ligament, the coraco-humeral ligament, fig. 98, is a broad band, which passes over the upper and outer part of the joint, from the base of the coracoid process to both tuberosities of the humerus, and to the margins of the bicipital groove. A deeper set of fibres, proceeding from near the slight depression in the anterior glenoid margin, to the anterior Three views of the Shoulder Joint opened. Fig. 99. Front view, showing the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle, crossing the articular cavity ; also the coraco-clavicular and the acromio-clavicular ligaments. Fig. 100.—Back view, showing the loose capsule, and the proportionally larger part of the head of the humerus; also a small piece of the biceps tendon, *. Fig. 101.—Vertical section through the joint, showing the bones, the encrusting cartilage, the biceps tendon, *, and the loose capsule. border of the bicipital groove, has been compared with the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. The capsule is so loose, that, on cutting through the tendons of the surrounding capsular muscles, the head of the humerus drops at least an inch from the socket. These tendons are connected with the capsule itself; above and behind, are those of the supra-spinatus, fig. 98, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles ; and, in front, the sub-scapular tendon, fig. 98. Below the joint, is the tendon of the long head of the triceps muscle; whilst the long tendon of the biceps muscle, pursidng the unusual course of crossing the interior of the joint, passes from the upper border of the glenoid cavity, over the head of the humerus, which it slightly marks, to reach the bicipital groove, figs. 98 to 101 ; this tendon is surrounded by a tube of the synovial membrane, which also lines the groove.