THE INFLUENCE OF THE MUSCLES ON FORM. 257 forms' depend so largely on the particular shapes of the individual muscles, their bulgings, flattenings, hollows, projections, ridges and curves, their fleshy and their tendinous or aponeiuotic portions being, in this respect, of equal im- portance, that it is difficult to set limits to their study, which is replete with interest and utility. Many of the muscles, indeed, as shown in fig. 120, possess such specialities of form and structure, that they may well lay claim to the character of individuality; they manifest the qualities of specialised organs, and, one is tempted to say, simulate some of those of individual organisms. The few muscles which are connected with soft parts only, are the simplest in both form and structure; they consist of flat, or curved planes, attached only to the mucous membranes, the skin, or the subcutaneous fascia; they merely move, and render tense, or throw into folds or close up, the parts with which they are connected. The platysma myoides, fig. 120, P, is an example of these. The more numerous instances of muscles, which are attached to bone at one end, and to some soft tissue or organ at the other, have also simple forms. Such, for example, are the flat curvilinear planes of fleshy fibres, named orbicular muscles, which surround the mouth 0, and eyelids 0', both of which serve to close the apertures which they embrace. Others, however, forming linear, triangular, or quadrilateral sheets of fleshy fasciculi, represented by the great zygomatic muscle of the mouth Z, draw upon the soft parts to which they are attached, and move them out of one position into another, in the direction of the muscle itself. In this category, all the other muscles which descend or ascend to reach the lips, may be classed; also those of the eye- brows and the various muscles in the orbit, which move the upper eyelid and the eyeballs ; likewise certain muscular slips, which are attached to the capsules of joints; and lastly, the important tensor muscle of the fascia of the thigh, fig. 145, But it is the numerous muscles attached at both ends to the skeleton, and moving the bones on each other, which present the greatest variety of shape, structure, and connexions. Most of them are larger in the centre, and smaller at each end. Some of them, as illustrated by the sartorius muscle of the thigh, S, are long, strap-shaped or rihhon-shaped, and are composed of longitudinal fasciculi reaching from one end of the muscle to the other; they may be twisted in their course, as the sartorius especially is; they are all necessarily swift in action, and so move the bones, on which they pull, through a relatively great space, in a given time. Other muscles are short, round, conical, tapering, or spindle-shaped, like the pronator teres of the forearm, P', in which case, the fasciculi arise from a broader origin, and are gathered gradually upon the sides of a tapering tendon of insertion, narrower than the muscle itself. Many muscles are triangular in shape, as seen in S