168 THE BONES. of the zygomatic arches, into the zygomatic and temporal fossae, where the two temporal muscles are attached to them. The leverage which they afford to those muscles, is very advantageous; the coronoid processes, moreover, are nearly vertical in direction, that is, in a direct line with the muscles, whilst the ramus and neck, which support the respective condyles, slant upwards and outwards, towards the glenoid cavities. The broad, quadrangular outer surface of each ramus, is flattened, and, together with a part of the coronoid process, has the masseter muscle attached to it; the muscle extends to its lower border, and even to the angle of the bone, which is more or less everted and roughened at its margin, thus giving further space for the insertion of that muscle, and increased leverage for its action. On the inner surface of the ramus, the posterior thick border gives attachment to the internal pterygoid muscle ; in front of that, is a flat process, for the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, which conceals a foramen for a nerve. Besides certain rough surfaces and strengthening ridges of bone, an internal oblique line is seen passing forwards, on the inner surface of the body of the jaw, beneath the molar teeth, ending still further forward in the mylo-hyoid ridge, fig. 61, which affords attachment to the mylo-hyoid muscle, placed across the floor of the mouth. At the fore part of this ridge, on the inner surface of the jaw, just behind the chin, are four small tubercles, the genial tubercles, {yhsiov, the chin), two on each side of the symphysis, fig. 61, for the insertion of the genio-hjo-glossus and genio-hyoideus muscles ; below these, are two small rough depressions, likewise one on each side of the middle line, for the attachment of the anterior portion of the right and left digastric muscles. On the outer surface of the lower jaw, continuous with the anterior border of the ramus, is the external oblique line, fig. 62, which, commencing as a sharp curved ridge at the base of the coronoid process, quickly subsides as it passes forwards, below the alveolar portion of the bone, towards the chin. Along the middle of this line, the depressor anguli oris muscle is attached ; a little above, and in front of it, the depressor labii inferioris; whilst, below the line, near the lower border of the bone, is the surface to which some fibres of the platysma myoides muscle are fixed. The lower border of the body of the jaw, is thick, roxmded and very strong ; but it becomes thinner near the angle of the bone; it is partly subcutaneous, between the angle and the symphysis. Opposite the symphysis, this border, as seen best in front, is slightly indented, fig. 63, and usually presents a sharp edge, which is continuous, on each side, with the faintly marked end of the external oblique line. Above this edge, is a small, prominent triangular eminence, bounded above by two curved lines, named the mental eminence, mentum, or chin, figs. 62, 63, which is sub- cutaneous, and forms the projecting part of the chin. Its upper boundary lines meet at a median longitudinal crest, which indicates the position of the