THE BONES OF THE HAND. 143 •which connect the four inner metacarpal bones, and also bind down the flexor tendons ; these lateral prominences are most developed on the free borders of the hand, namely on the radial side of the second metacarpal, and on the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone. The metacarpal bones present numerous individual peculiarities, especially the first metacarpal. They differ in length, breadth, and form; they are also differently connected with the carpus, and with each other, and they give origin or insertion to different muscles or tendons. The largest, but not the thickest, is the second metacarpal, which supports the index-finger; next to that, in length, but somewhat thicker, as it has to bear the middle finger, is the third or middle one ; then the fourth, and, next to that, the fifth for the little finger, the thickness of the two latter diminishing in the same order ; lastly, the metacarpal bone for the thumb, is the widest, thickest, and shortest of all, reaching only as low as the middle of the second. The fifth metacarpal, which supports the little finger, is articulated, at its base, by means of an oblique concavo-convex facet with the inner portion of the inferior articular surface of the unciform bone, so as to form a somewhat saddle-shaped joint; moreover, it has only a single lateral facet, namely, on the radial side of its base, for articulation with the fourth metacarpal. The tendon of the extensor carpi uinaris muscle is inserted into a small tubercle seen on the inner and hinder part of its base ; a prolongation from the tendon of the flexor carpi uinaris^ is attached to the fore part of its base ; and the opponens minimi digiti is inserted along its ulnar border. The fourth meta- carpal bone, which supports the ring finger, has, on its base, a quadrangular facet, for articulation with the outer portion of the lower surface of the unci- form bone ; it also has a small, flat, articular facet on its hinder and outer angle, which touches the os magnum; besides this, it has a single lateral facet for articulation with the base of the fifth, and two others, with an inter- mediate rough groove, for articulation with similar facets on the base of the third metacarpal. The third metacarpal, which carries the middle finger, is wedged deeply in between the bases of the fourth and second, both of which it touches by one, or by two, small lateral facets, whilst its upper end articulates with the large middle portion of the under surface of the os magnum. From its radial corner, on the back of the hand, a pointed eminence overlaps the OS magnum, serves to steady the bone, and provides a place of insertion for the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevier muscle. The adductor pollicis muscle arises from the longitudinal median ridge, on its palmar surface. The second metacarpal bone, on which the fore-finger is supported, is, as already stated, the longest of the series ; on the dorsal aspect, its large upper end presents a deeply indented outline, owing to its articulation, by its widely notched base, with three of the carpal bones, and also to its having two angular prominences between them. Thus, it articulates, by a narrow edge, with the