THE MUSCLES. 290 tJ9 Fig. 136.—Muscles of the Leg ; part of Superficial Group, with the Popliteus. named vincula suhflava ; they are very large in some mammals and in birds. The long flexor of the toes, bends first the last phalanges, then the second and first, and afterwards the protarsus; lastly, it must assist in extending the foot. The oblique direction of its pull upon the toes is modified by the flexor accessorius, and the two inner tendons are acted on by the long flexor of the great toe. It aids in all the movements of the foot, just mentioned in describing these last- named muscles, except that it does not act on the great toe itself. Together with the short flexors, and the abductors and adductors, it enables the naked foot to grip firmly on to any surface of support. The Superficial Posterior Group, figs. 136, &c. This consists of the soleus, plan- taris, and gastrocnemius muscles. With these may be described, the comparatively small but interesting popliteus muscle, situated just above the soleus. Popliteus, fig. 136, Deep and completely covered in the ham (poples); thin, flat, tri- angular ; oblique downwards and inwards across the back of the knee joint and upper part of the tibia, its narrow tendon of origin being situated within the joint. Fore part of a depression on the side of the outer condyle of the femur, covered by the external lateral ligament, a few fibres coming from the posterior ligament——triangular surface on the back of the tibia above its oblique line. This muscle so far co-operates with the gastrocnemius, that it aids in flexing the leg upon the thigh ; but its special use is to rotate the tibia inwards, as the leg is being flexed, a movement which occurs in bringing the hinder limb forward in walking or running, in order to correct the abducted position of the foot, assumed as the body is carried forwards over it. By its connexion with the posterior ligament, and, indirectly, with the external semilunar cartilage, it probably assists in accommodating the position