349 SUEFACE FORMS OF THE TRUNK. separate form dependent on them, to be unlike the one above it and below it, in position, direction, size and shape. Their apices lie along a crescentic line, and so the zigzag marking is itself curved ; the digitations themselves become smaller from above downwards and their angles more acute. The coarse of the several fleshy processes over the sides of the chest, is also curved, and the curvature varies in each case; so that the faint, interfascicular markings between them, likewise vary in direction. Furthermore, they are cut off obliquely, by the simple and well-contrasted sweeping line of the border of the latissimus behind; whilst the crescentic arrangement of their anterior ends or points, has its greatest prominence above its centre. Lastly, the processes of the serratus are thicker and somewhat more prominent, than the flattened portions of the external oblique, with which they interdigitate. The part of the lower border of the serratus, which is covered by the latissimus, raises up that muscle along an oblique line, traceable from the lower angle of the scapula, when that bone is drawn forwards, and has its lower angle lifted from the side of the chest. The levator anguli scapulce and the rhomboids, though covered by the trapezius, influence the surface-forms in a decided manner. The outline of the upper part of the neck, traced from below the head, is determined by a short convergent line, due to the trachelo-mastoid, fig. 152, and the divergent splenius capitis, overlapped, above, by the sterno- mastoid, fig. 167, ^"; below this, is a longer divergent line, regulated by the subjacent levator of the angle of the scapula, fig. 156, ; and below this, a full convex form reaches downwards and outwards, to the acromion process. These three lines, however, are clothed by the cranial, cervical and upper dorsal fleshy portions of the trapezius, fig. 160, which muscle thus combines and modulates them into the exceedingly beautiful contour of this part of the body, fig. 167. The rhomboid muscles, minor and major, give rise to a special, slightly elevated plane, between the spinal furrow and the proper scapular eminence, which ends below in an oblique edge, figs. 160, 167, sometimes visible, sometimes obscure or hidden, which is, for a short distance near the lower angle of the scapula, still more defined, being uncovered by the trapezius. When the scapula is moved forwards and raised, fig. 167 right side), the rhomboids are relaxed, and their special form disappears, whilst those of the serratus are rendered more obvious, even through the thin latissimus, as already mentioned; but, when that bone is carried backwards towards the spine (left side), the rhomboids are contracted, so as to form a vertical eminence, which is subdued or increased by the trapezius, according as the dorsal portion of this muscle is relaxed or contracted. When the scapula is held firmly in any given position between the rhomboids and the great serratus, the raised lower borders of the greater rhomboid and the serratus form a common oblique line or ridge, interrupted only at the lower