THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 393 notched portion of the front of the thyroid cartilage, is bevelled off obliquely downwards and forwards, this cartilage, carrying the rest of the larynx and the windpipe, can ascend behind and within the arch of the hyoid bone. The bevelled portion of the thyroid cartilage forms an obtuse angle with its median ridge, which inclines gently backwards and downwards ; the angular projection itself constitutes the pomum Adami or Adam's apple, so named because of its prominence in Man, as compared with Woman. The lower, shorter border of the thyroid cartilage is concave, and is connected with the front and sides of the cricoid, by the thick elastic crico-thyroid membrane. Inside the back of the larynx, supported on, and moveably articulated with, the deeper part of the cricoid cartilage, are the two other principal laryngeal cartilages, namely the right and left arytenoid cartilages, so-called from their peculiar shape {apvTatva, a pitcher) ; to these, the hinder ends of the right and left true vocal cords are attached, the anterior ends being fixed to the back of the median folded part of the thyroid cartilage, just below its pro- minent angle. Between these cords, is the opening called the glottis, through which the air is inspired and expired, in breathing. By the vibration of the vocal cords on either side of it, the voice is produced. The glottis is, moreover, guarded by a leaf-shaped, soft, fibro-cartilaginous valve, named the epiglottis, which is situated deeply out of sight, at the root of the tongue, falKng back over the opening, in the Fm. 188.-Hyoid Bone, Larj^ix, and Thyroid act of swallowing. Body, in the Male. ° Fig. 189.—The same parts in the Female. Attached by membrane to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, is the trachea or ivindpipe, figs. 188, 189, 190, w, composed of a series of C-shaped flattened cartilages, connected together by intermediate membranes, and completed behind by a flat mem- branous wall, so as to form a continuous tube, which descends through the lower part of the neck into the thorax, where, by means of its branches, it com- municates with the lungs. Suspended from the sides and front of the thyroid cartilage, and overlapping the upper part of the trachea, is the thyroid body, T, a glandular organ of peculiar construction, consisting of two lateral lobes, united by a narrow median part, named the isthmus. This gland is much larger in the female, fig. 189, than in the male, fig. 188, whilst, on the contrary, the hyoid apparatus, the larynx and the trachea are smaller in women. The larynx, as well as the tongue, palate, and pharynx, have many deep-