THE BONES. 160 side of the auditory process, the long slender pointed styloid 'process, fig. 62, s', projects, obliquely downwards, forwards, and inwards, into the neck ; it gives origin to three suspensory muscles, the stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-glossus, and stylo-hyoid muscles, which descend to the pharynx, the tongue, and the hyoid bone; from it also, two ligaments, the stylo-hyoid and stylo-maxillary, pass down to the hyoid bone and to the lower jaw. The squamous 'portion, s, of the temporal bone, placed above the auditory meatus, is continuous, below, with the narrow petrous portion, but expands, above, into a thin, flattened, semi- circular, scale-like piece of bone {squama, a scale), which is adapted above, by means of a thin overlapping edge, to the bevelled and thin lower border of the parietal bone, P, and in front, by a thicker bevelled edge to the sphenoid bone, S ; behind and below, it becomes continuous with the mastoid portion of the bone. The squamous portion is smooth, slightly convex, and forms the chief portion of the floor of the temporal fossa, from which the temporal muscle arises. A strong curved ridge passes obliquely backwards upon the lower part of the squamous bone, which is continuous with the curved temporal ridge, I, on the parietal bone, and here marks the boundary of the temporal fossa. Below the curved ridge on the temporal bone, a small part of the squamous portion is subcutaneous. Immediately behind the auditory foramen, and continuous, above, with the squamous jiortion, is a conspicuous, nipple-shaped mass of bone projecting downwards, the mastoid process, m, (jxaa-ros, breast). This is convex and some- what pointed at its apex, but widens out, upwards and backwards, at its base, to form the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, which fits in between the occipital and parietal bones, being joined to them by rugged surfaces and serrated edges. The mastoid process contains a number of open spaces, the mastoid cells, which communicate with the cavity of the drum of the ear, and act as reinforcing chambers for sound. Like the frontal sinuses, the mastoid cells necessarily lighten the bony skull; and their chief mechanical use is to increase the size, without adding to the weight, of this part of the temporal bone. To this process, are attached certain muscles concerned in moving the head upon the neck, namely, the trachelo-mastoid, and portions of the splenius capitis and of the well-known and large sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The surfaces of attachment, and 'the points of leverage of these muscles, are hereby much increased. Accordingly, the mastoid processes reach their utmost development in the adult; they are larger in men than in women, larger in finely developed races and individuals than in those of slender form and stature, very small in childhood, and scarcely recognisable in the infant. The cells in their interior do not appear until the approach of puberty. On the deep surface of the process, fig. 61, is a groove, named the digastric fossa, for the origin of the digastric muscle; a small slip of the occipito-frontalis muscle arises from it behind; where it joins the squamous