402 THE MUSCLES. Outer surface of the alveolar portion of both the upper and lower jaws, oppo- site to the molar teeth, and a strong band of fascia, named the 'pterygo-maxil- lary ligament, which descends from the sphenoid bone to the lower jaw, close to the last molar tooth -the soft tissue of the two lips at the corner of the mouth, blending with the orbicular muscle. The parotid duct passes through the buccinator muscle, to enter, and convey the saliva into the mouth, the mucous membrane of which lines the inner surface of the muscle. By con- tracting and compressing the cheek, the buccinator retains the food between the teeth, during mastication; it widens the aperture of the mouth sideways, retracts the corner of the mouth, and wrinkles the cheek, making prominent the bucco-labial furrow. The two muscles, when the cheeks are previously distended with air, expel it from between the lips, as in blowing into a cornet or trumpet; hence, it is known as the trumjpeter's muscle (buccina, a trumpet). In the representations of the face of Boreas, which, as well as the heads of 'quiring Cherubim,' be it observed, often want the inflating organs or lungs, the cheek muscles are inordinately distended, reminding one of Lear's invo- catioti, ' Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks.' The Epicranial Group, figs. 186, 187, 193.—This includes the two scalp muscles, the occipital and frontal, united by the wide epicranial aponeurosis, into one broad, digastric muscle, named occipito-frontal. Asso- ciated with the frontal portion, is the corrugator muscle of the eyebrow. Occipito-frontalis, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial in the frontal portion, but, elsewhere, covered by the hairy scalp; both portions broad, thin, and quadrilateral, but the frontal portion much longer, broader and paler than the occipital portion, the intervening aponeurosis being of equal breadth, but much longer than either ; longitudinal over the entire smooth surface of the cranium. The occipital portion, outer two thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and mastoid process of the temporal bone posterior border of the epicranial aponeurosis; the frontal portion, curved anterior border of that aponeurosis external angular process of the frontal bone, nasal bone continuously with the pyramidalis nasi muscle, and, between these two points, the tissue of the eyebrow, becoming blended with the fasciculi of the orbicular and corrugator muscles. The right and left occi- pital portions of the muscle are separated, in the middle line, by a process of the epicranial aponeurosis, which is attached to the occipital protuberance, but the right and left frontal portions soon coalesce in the middle line. The aponeuroses of the two sides are completely united into a single, wide ten- dinous expansion, covering the top of the cranium ; at the sides, it becomes thinner, gives origin to two of the auricular muscles, and forms a thin mem- branous layer over the temporal fascia, as low as the zygoma; it is everywhere closely united with the skin of the hairy scalp, which moves freely with it