219 THE JOLNTS OF THE LOWER LIMB. fibres, to the head of the tibia. The external cartilage forms nearly the whole of a circle, smaller than tliat of the internal cartilage, its attached ends being interposed between those of the latter, and separating them from the spine of the tibia. It is connected, in front and behind, with both crucial ligaments, and also with the external cartilage, by a special transverse liga- ment ; but it is not so closely connected with the tibia, or with the capsule, its anterior end being entirely within the joint, and its posterior end sepa- rated from the capsule by the tendon of the popliteus muscle, which furnishes some fibres to it. The synovial membrane of tlie knee, which lines the capsule and the articular surfaces of its numerous ligaments, is the largest in the body, and facilitates the extensive movements of this great hinge joint. It forms a Fig. 86.—Vertical median section through the Knee Joint, showing the bones covered with articular cartilage, the posterior ligament, the posterior crucial ligament, *, a part of the anterior crucial ligament, t, and the ligamentum patellie, with the bursa between it and the Tibia. Fig. 87.—Vertical section made to the outer side of the middle line. Anterior crucial liga- ment, ff. Posterior crucial ligament, **. In front of these, is the fatty tissue of the ligamentum mucosum, behind the ligamentum patellse. pouch in front of the lower part of the femur, beneath the broad tendon of the great extensor muscles, a few deeply seated fleshy fibres being connected with the capsule, and serving to withdraw it out of the way of the patella, during extension of the leg. Folds and processes of the synovial membrane, containing fat and vessels, constitute the alar ligaments, and the ligamentum mucosum, figs. 83, 87, seen, in the opened joint, behind and at the sides of the ligamentum patellse. In this situation, also, there are large cushions of fat connected with the alar and mucous ligaments, fig. 87, whicli project or