358 THE MUSCLES. into the space in front of the elbow. Lower half of the anterior surface of the humerus below the deltoid impression, and parts of the adjacent intermus- cular septa rough triangular depression, in front of and below the coronoid process of the ulna. This muscle is sometimes double or divided into two or more portions below. It is the most essential of the two powerful flexors of the elbow joint. Biceps cubiti, fig. 169, Super- ficial, except above, where it is con- cealed by the pectoralis major and the deltoid, and below, where its ten- don of insertion dips into the hollow in front of the elbow; asymmetri- cally fusiform, being bicipital or two- headed, the fasciculi belonging to its outer or longer head, being smaller and shorter than those of the inner or shorter head, which reach both higher up and lower down in the muscle ; from the front of the shoulder and upper part of the axilla, downwards and a little outwards, in front of the humerus. Inner or short head, by a flat tendon, in connexion with the coraco-brachialis, from the apex of the coracoid process; outer or longhead,^""', by a long rounded tendon, from the upper part of the glenoid cavity and glenoid ligament, within the shoulder joint back part of the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, by a long- tapering tendon, which becomes flattened, and twists on itself, as it passes downwards and backwards be- tween the radius and ulna, a bursa intervening between it and the smooth part of the tuberosity. As already frequently alluded to, the long tendon passes like a strap over the head of the humerus, and then, leaving the joint, descends along the bicipital groove. The two tendons of origin cease, and the fleshy fasciculi begin, those of the outer head abruptly, but those of the inner head more gradually, just where the friction from the overlapping deltoid and pectoral muscles discontinues ; the two fleshy parts of the muscle unite above the Fig. 168.—Deep Anterior and other Muscles of the Arm.