THE JOINTS. 242 is blended with the lateral ligaments, the sheath of the flexor tendons, and tlie transverse metacarpal ligament, with which latter, it forms a groove for those tendons. It is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but only loosely to the metacarpal bone, so as to deepen the cavity of the former, for the reception of the head of the latter ; it is sometimes named the glenoid ligament. In the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb, figs. 114, 115, this anterior ligament is very strong, and includes the two sesamoid bones, which are held together by transverse fibres,' and glide upon the small trochlear grooves in front of the rounded head of the first metacarpal bone. Lateral ligaments, internal and external, also exist, flattened triangular bands, attached, by their narrow ends, to the sides of the heads of the metacarpal bones, and, by tlieir wider ends, to the sides of the phalanges and to the thick anterior Fig. 113.—The Ligaments and Joints of a Fin;j-er. Fig. 11-1.—The Ligaments of the Thumb, including its Carpo-Metacarpal Joint. Fig. 115.—The Joints of the Thumb laid open. ligaments. In the thumb, most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments are inserted into the sesamoid bones. Movements,—At these joints, all movements are possible, excepting free rotation ; but this may be forced, as from external causes. The spreading out of the fingers from each other, at their bases, is permitted at these joints ; all the fingers are thus capable of lateral separation, or any single finger from its neighbour, or any one from the rest, or the two inner from the two outer ones. Flexion is more free than extension, reaching to about a right angle; extension, unless forced, goes only a little beyond a straight line. Extension, when quite free, and unchecked by special intention or effort, is essentially associated with abduction; whilst flexion is similarly combined with adduc- tion. The reverse combinations are forced, and require explanation, to be acceptable to the eye. Of the several fingers, the forefinger enjoys the most