347 SUKP^ACE FORMS OF THE TRUNK. scapula, at the shoulder, the last-named bone rotating upwards, under the in- fluence of the trapezius muscle, as already explained. Thus, an action, which is begun by the deltoid, is completed by the trapezius. The anterior part of the deltoid assists the pectoralis major, in drawing the humerus forwards; the posterior part aids the teres major and the latissimus dorsi, in moving it backwards. The entire muscle protects the shoulder-joint, and, co-operating with the deep rotators, is employed in fixing the head of the humerus against the glenoid cavity, in the raised position, as required during fencing, in thrusting, or in parrying blows. SUEFACE FOEMS DEPENDENT ON THE MuSCLES OF THE TkUNK. The deejp vertebral muscles, from the multifidus spinse to the small muscles beneath the occiput, form the first clothing of the vertebral column behind, and help to fill in the vertebral grooves \ the pvcB-vertebrcil group covers the cervical vertebrae in front; the deep thoracic muscles, the levators and intercostals, close the narrow intervals between the ribs ; whilst the quadratus lumborum and the scaleni, on each side, partly obliterate the larger gaps in the skeleton, between the thorax and the pelvis below, and between the thorax and the head above. But none of these muscles directly affect the surface-forms. The longitudinal dorsal group, including so many and such complicated muscles, though covered completely by the more superficial layers, has a very marked influence on the surface-forms, both in the back and in the neck. The erector spinse, bound down by the lumbar and vertebral aponeuroses, and fiu-ther overlaid by the adherent, but thin tendon of origin of the latissimus, fig. 167, produces a pointed form tapering downwards on the back of the sacrum, a large, convex, vertical prominence in the loins, and a flattened and narrowed plane, which gradually subsides, above the middle of the back. In each region, the muscles of the two sides determine the depth of the median spinal furrow, which is narrow and shallow below, deepest in the loins, and again becomes more shallow, or even obliterated, in the back. Two local elevations in the surface-forms of the erector spinse, indicate the places where the fleshy fibres free themselves above, from the aponeurotic portions lower down, fig. 150 ; these local elevations, the one belonging to the longissi- mus dorsi being higher up than that of the sacro-lumbalis, are bounded below, by borders curving obliquely downwards and outwards, and have their effect increased by their coincidence with those of the slanting lower border of the fleshy part of the latissimus dorsi, especially noticeable when that muscle is in action. The extensions of the erector spinas into the neck, and up to the skull, fig. 151, widen the cervical region upwards. The divergent splenii muscles, fig. 152, also contribute importantly to this result. The divergent serratus posticus superior is hidden by the scapula; but the serratus inferior