SURFACE FOEMS OF THE TEUNK. 353 local form, and contributes to the greater relative length and obliquity of the posterior border of the axilla. The preceding account of the muscular forms seen on the back, suffices, without recapitulation, to show how numerous they are, and how difficult to analyse, without a knowledge of the anatomical structures on which they de- pend. The order in which they have just been described, is that in which the student will do well to study them on the living figure, or on an antique statue, and to endeavour to block them out in his own models or drawings. What- ever the position and action of the trunk and of the moveable shoulder-girdle and upper limbs, the relations of the skeleton-forms of the pelvis, vertebral column, ribs and scapulse to the surface-forms, should first be determined. Then, the influence of the longitudinal group of muscles should be considered. Next, that of the divergent muscles, especially in the neck, should be studied. These beingdefined, the effect of the shoulder-girdle muscles and of the proper scapular muscles, may be examined and ascertained, constant regard being had to the important results of changes of position on them. Lastly, the forms of the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi, overlying all, may be investigated. The alterations produced in each muscle, by rest and by contraction, in every stage of elongation from stretching, or of recoil through elasticity, must be incessantly watched and constantly allowed for, not only in reference to the forms of the fleshy masses themselves, but also to those of the tendinous parts in connexion with them. In this way alone, can the otherwise puzzling and, indeed, incomprehensible forms of the back be safely subordinated to the artistic eye and hand. It has been said, perhaps irreverently, that, in the powerful drawings of Michael Angelo, the back is sometimes represented full of un- meaning forms. The greater pectoral muscle, figs. 162, 166, constitutes the basis of the shorter, thinner and less oblique, anterior border of the axilla; but it also forms the large pectoral plane, which slants downwards, outwards and back- wards, from the front of the chest, and from beneath the inner half of the collar bone, to the upper part of the arm, below the rounded prominence of the shoulder. The subclavius muscle and the pectoralis minor, both, indirectly affect the character of the pectoral plane, the latter muscle, especially, bridging over the deep upper part of the axillary space, tilting the corre- sponding part of the pectoralis major forwards, fig. 162, and so relieving that plane from having a sunken and impoverished appearance there ; its lowest process also appears, when the arm is raised, fig. 166, as a slight indepen- dent form at the lower part of the anterior border of the axilla. The festooned origins of the sternal bundles of the great pectoral muscles, determine the width and form of the surface sternal furrow; the clavicular origin o^' the muscle, somewhat less prominent than the collar bone itself, is often marked o-ff from the rest of the muscle, by an interfascicular depression, and it is always A A