281 THE MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. The Extensor Group.—There is but one extensor muscle, which is placed on the dorsum of the foot; portions of the dorsal interosseous muscles, however, appear between the metatarsal bones, and parts of the abductor muscles of the great and little toes are seen on the borders of the foot. Extensor brevis cligitorum, figs. 130, 132, '° Superficial, but crossed by the tendons of the long extensor of the toes, and of the peroneus tertius ; broad, somewhat pointed behind, dividing in front into four slips, each giving off a tendon : passing obliquely inwards along the outer part of the back of the foot, just beyond the bases of the four outer metatarsal bones. Outer side of the os calcis, astragalo-calcaneal ligament, and lower band of anterior annular ligament by its inner tendon, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and by its other three tendons, into the outer margins of the tendons of the long extensor belonging to the second, third, and fourth toes, so contributing to form the common tendinous expansion on the backs of their phalanges. This muscle sends no tendon to the little toe. It acts on the first phalanx of the great toe, but it also co-operates with the long extensor in acting on all the phalanges of the second, third, and fourth toes. It gives to the four inner toes an outward direction when they are extended, especially acting thus on the great toe. It may also aid slightly in straightening the metatarsus and protarsus. The tendons which descend from the muscles of the leg, on to the dorsum of the foot, figs. 130-132, may now be traced, as they escape beneath the anterior annular ligament. Commencing on the inner border of the instep, they are, the tendon of the tibialis anticus, passing obliquely over the inner border of the tarsus to the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the first metatarsal bone ; the tendon of the proper extensor of the great toe, descending along the tarsus, the first metatarsal bone, and the back of the great toe, to the last phalanx of that toe ; the tendon of the long extensor of the toes, dividing into four slips, which diverge, as they pass forwards on the tarsus, metatarsus and toes, to be inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four outer toes; and lastly, the tendon of the peroneus tertius, passing obliquely over the outer border of the tarsus, to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. At the back of the heel, is found the very large tendo Achillis, figs. 131, 132, descending from the muscles of the calf to the OS calcis. The fascia on the dorsum of the foot, and the annular ligaments of the anJde. The back of the foot and its numerous tendons, with the short extensor muscle lying beneath them and close to the bones, is covered in by a thin dorsal fascia, which is gradually lost on and between the toes in front, is continuous with the lateral portions of the plantar fascia on either border of the foot, and is united behind, with the annular ligaments of the ankle. These latter are merely thicker portions of the fascia of the leg, strengthened