THE MUSCLES. 410 they form useful guide points, amongst the changeable forms around them. The orbital portion of the orbicularis muscle draws the skin of the forehead, temples, and cheek towards the orbit, and particularly towards its inner side, throwing the integument into folds or wrinkles, especially radiating from the outer corner of the eyelids, across the direction of the muscular fasciculi, giving rise, as age advances, to the so-called ' crows' feet.' Whilst the pal- pebral portion of the orbicular muscle closes the lids gently, as during sleep, or in the act of winking, the orbital portion draws them more decidedly towards each other, as in laughing or crying, or presses them in close contact, as when a foreign body is within or near the eyelids, or when one desires to shut out light, or avoid the sight of a disagreeable or dreaded object. This muscle, like all others, exhibits involuntary, emotional, and volitional move- ments, the palpebral portion more frequently acting involuntarily, the orbital portion, usually, under the influence of the emotions or the will. The Nasal Group, figs. 186,187,193.—This consists of the pyramidal muscle, the compressor, the dilators and the depressor of the wing of the nose, and the levator of the wing of the nose and the upper lip. The Nose.—The bony framework of the nose, already described, p. 166, is filled in, in front, by the nasal cartilages, figs. 186, 187, which give firmness and form to the anterior part of this exceedingly variously shaped organ. There are five principal cartilages, namely, an upper and a lower lateral cartilage, on each side, and a single median cartilage of the septum, between the two halves of the nose. The cartilage of the septum is triangular, irregularly flattened, and thicker at its edges than at its centre; it is fitted in, vertically between the nasal, ethmoid, ploughshare, and superior maxillary bones, and separates the nasal fossse and the nostrils, anteriorly; it also supports the lateral cartilages. The upper lateral cartilage, on each side, triangular and flattened, is attached behind, to the nasal notch of the corresponding superior maxillary bone, in front, to the cartilage of the septum and to the opposite upper lateral cartilage, and, below, to the lower lateral cartilage of its own side. This lower lateral cartilage, or cartilage of the ala or wing of the nose, is bent upon itself, so as to occupy the front and sides of the correspond- ing nostril. It is attached above, to the upper lateral cartilage, and also to the cartilage of the septum. Its outer plate, oval and pointed behind, is fixed to the nasal notch of the superior maxillary bone, by a dense membrane, which contains two or three small cartilages, the sesamoid cartilages; whilst below, it is embedded in the fatty tissue and thick integument which form the actual margin of the ala. The inner plate of this folded cartilage, narrower but thicker, is loosely attached to the opposite cartilage, and with it, descends below the level of the cartilage of the septum, and forms a part of the central ridge, columna nasi, between the nostrils, which is itself lower