THE HUMERUS. 123 length of the bone ; it is named the bicipital groove, fig. 49, because it lodges the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle. There is no analogous groove in the femur. Its upper part, deeper and narrower than the rest, is lined with cartilage, and communicates with the shoulder joint. Above it, the spheroidal surface of the head of the bone, is slightly flattened where the tendon of the biceps passes over it, in its course from the top of tlie glenoid cavity of the scapula to the bicipital groove. From the inner side of the neck of the humerus, and from the base of each tuberosity, three buttress-like ridges descend upon the shaft; the inner one soon disappears on the smooth, rounded, inner surface of the bone; the one from the lesser tuberosity, de- scends, as a thin ridge, along the front of the bone, forming the inner margin of the bicipital groove; whilst the much broader buttress, proceeding downwards from the greater tuberosity, presents a more elevated and rougher ridge along its anterior border, which forms the outer margin of that groove. External to this, and lower down, is a broad, linear, rough elevation, somewhat tri- angular and pointed downwards, which, about the middle of the outer side of the shaft, receives the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and is named the deltoid impressio7i. Still lower, and towards the front of the bone, is a smoother, median ridge, which gives the bone a three-sided form, and may be followed down the humerus, until it terminates, by expanding laterally at the flattened lower end of the bone. The irregular ridges, thus traceable from the greater tuberosity to the lower end of the bone, constitute the anterior border of the liiimerus. The gradual change in direction of this border, from the outer to the anterior surface of the bone, assists in making the humerus ap- pear twisted inwards at its lower end. The roughened part of this border represents, in the humerus, the linea aspera of the femur. Besides lodging the long tendon of the biceps, the lower part of the bicipital groove gives at- tachment, along its floor, to the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle; to its inner thin margin, is fixed the teres major, and to its outer more elevated and roughened margin, the greater pectoral muscle. Lower down than the deltoid impression, and on the inner side of the shaft, is a longer and smoother im- pression, into which the coraco-brachialis muscle is inserted ; whilst immedi- ately below the deltoid irjnpression, and embracing its pointed extremity, is a broad plain surface, traversed longitudinally by the median smooth ridge al- ready described, which affords origin down to near the elbow-joint, to the brachialis anticus muscle. The back of the shaft of the humerus, is almost entirely occupied by two very large surfaces of origin of two of the heads of the triceps muscle, the only muscle at the back of the humerus ; between those surfaces, is an oblique groove, the musculo-spiral groove, along which a large nerve, with an artery, passes. This groove is directed from the posterior to the outer side of the shaft, and, as already stated, gives a twisted appearance to the bone. Below