240 THE JOINTS. flexion appear stiff" and awkward. In forced actions, or mixed free and forced actions, the deviations from the lines of graceful movement are accepted, if explained by circumstances; as, for example, when they are due to leaning or pressing against any external support or object, or to carrying a weight, or offering resistance to external force. The Carpal Joints.—The planiform joints of the first row of carpal bones, or epi-carpus, as it might be termed, are held together by thin palmar, and thick dorsal ligaments, fig. 111, and also by strong interosseous ligaments, fig. 112, placed near the upper part of the contiguous surfaces of the component bones, so as to render the general articular surface almost even. The little joint between the pisiform and the cuneiform bones, is quite distinct, having its own capsule and ligaments, the latter being connected with the unciform bone, and even with the fifth metacarpal bone. The articulations of the second roiv of the carpus, which constitutes what may be named the pro-carpus, are likewise of the planiform kind, and are completed by p)(dm,ar, dorscd and interosseous ligaments, that between the OS magnum and unciform being very strong. The complex transverse joint of the carpus, fig. 112, planiform on each side, but ball-and-socket-like, opposite the head of the os magnum, is prac- tically a hinge-joint; it is completed by palmar, dorscd and kdercd ligaments, but, excepting an occasional small band between the os magnum and the scaphoid bone, there is no interosseous ligament here, which would have impeded the movements between the two rows of bones. The palmar ligaments chiefly converge to the os magnum ; of the dorsal bands, one passes across the head of that bone. Movements.—The pro-carpal ball of tlie transverse articulation of the carpus, is so locked into its deep socket, that the actual movement here is hinge-like only. Flexion of the pro-carpus is more free than extension, the reverse of what occurs at the wrist joint itself; but, in the combined move- ments of both lines of articulation, the total flexion is more free than the total extension, except where the latter is forced. The gliding movements at the other cai'pal joints, are not so free as those at the tarsal articulations generally. The Carpo-Metacarpal Joints.—The planiform joints of the four outer metacarpal bones, have each one palmar and two dorsal ligaments, figs. Ill, 112, one from each adjacent carpal bone. The fifth metacarpal, which supports the little finger, has only one dorsal band attached to the unciform bone ; the third, supporting the middle finger, has interosseous ligaments connecting it with the os magnum and the unciform bone. The saddle-shaped joint at the root of the thumb, figs. Ill, 114, 115, is held