210 THE JOINTS. of the first metatarsal bone, figs. 79, 80. The lateral ligaments are strong- triangular bands, attached by their narrow ends, above, to the sides of the metatarsal bones, and, below, to the sides of the phalanges and the plantar ligament. In the great toe, the lateral ligaments are fixed chiefly to the sesamoid bones. Movements.—Extension in these joints, especially when forced, is more free than flexion, much more so than in the fingers, the toes being brought well towards the metatarsus. In free extension, the toes are carried outwards as well as upwards, but inwards and downwards in flexion, so that they change their direction in reference to the metatarsal bones. Circumduction is limited. Owing to the opposite direction of the long diameters of the ball and the socket, free rotation is impossible; but forced rotation occurs, when the toes are on the ground, and the foot is turned side- ways. The joint of the great toe is the freest. The effect of the sandal-strap, cr of the barred stirrup-iron, in widening the interval between the great toe and the second toe, is well known. The Metatarsal Joints. — The heads of the five metatarsal bones, though somewhat separated, are strongly held to- gether by the transverse metatarsal liga- ment, fig. 77, a narrow band, which passes across beneath them, and is connected with Fig. 77.—The Ligaments of the Toes and the Metatarsus; the Joints of the the fibro-cartilaginous plantar ligaments Toes laid open. ^^^^ metatarso-phalangeal articulations. This ligament prevents the too great spreading out of the fore part of the metatarsus, when weight is borne upon the foot. The bases of the four outer metatarsal bones are connected together, at their lateral planiform joints, by transverse dorsal ligaments, figs. 77, 78, by similarly disposed, but stronger, plantar ligaments, and by short, firm, interosseous ligaments. The base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, has no lateral joint between it and that of the second toe, a fact which illustrates its relationship to the thumb; but, nevertheless, the two bones are strongly bound together by an inter- osseous ligament. These interosseous ligaments support the transverse arch of the foot. Movements.—The heads of the metatarsal bones move past each other freely; but their bases are closely fixed together.