348 THE MUSCLES. may determine, upon the back of the thorax, on the outer side of the sacro- lumbalis, a short vertical elevation, due to the combination of its three strongly contracted fleshy processes, that is, under conditions, in which the lower ribs require to be fixed during great efforts. The broad and straight muscles, which enclose the abdomen at the sides and in front, fig. 155, complete the filling up of the interval between the osseous parts of the pelvis and the thorax, and correspond with the waist, the narrowest part of which, or waist proper, is on a level with the tips of the floating ribs, opposite to the upper part of the second lumbar vertebra ; above this, the trunk gradually expands, in correspondence with the ribs ; below it, the sides of the abdomen present an undulatory outline. The umbilicus is placed below the line of the waist, level with the upper border of the fourth lumbar vertebra; the greatest prominence of the nbdomen, both in front and at the sides, is still lower down, opposite the upper border of the fifth lumbar vertebra, just above the level of the iliac crests in the female, but at about that level in the male. The superficial external oblique muscles, right and left, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, and the two intercalated and inter- sected recti muscles, are alone responsible for the surface forms of the abdominal region. The linea alba, the linese semilunares, and the linese transversse, of which one set passes oflF just above the umbilicus, most agreeably subdivide the anterior surface, fig. 155; whilst the undulating border of the fleshy portion of each external oblique muscle, projects a little beyond the flatter tendinous portion. The thick origins of this muscle and of the internal oblique from the iliac crest, combine to form the soft well- marked roll, above that line of bone, determining the shape of the iliac furrow. On the sides of the lower part of the thorax, the inferior digitations of the external oblique muscle are overlapped by the thick border of the latissiraus, fig. 159, but the higher ones conspicuously intermix with those of the serratus magnus, fig. 166. This last-named muscle, amongst those belonging to the shoulder-girdle, has very great influence on the surface-forms, decorating, in the most remarkable manner, the side of the torso. At least six of its pointed processes become recognisable, when the arm is uplifted from the side, fig. 166, but, otherwise, only three or four, all, of course, most plainly when the muscle is in action. It is interesting to note how the anatomical details, here tend to diminish the formal effect of a zigzag line running between prominent, toothed or serrated borders, on so exposed and broad a part of the human frame. The forms themselves furnish a typical example of the effect of repetition of masses, but their detailed construction, fig. 166, illustrates the influence and value of variation. The inequality of the several digitations of the serratus, in length and width, the different obliquity of their lines of attachment to the ribs, and the unequal angles of their several points, cause each