389 THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. temporal bones, and the lower jaw. The right and left halves of this V-shaped interval, constitute the anterior triangles of the neck. Behind each sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, figs. 186, 187, ' between it and the corre- sponding trapezius muscle, which forms the extreme border of the neck, is another triangular interval, named the posterior triangle of the neck, which has its base at the collar bone, and in which, are placed, from above down- wards, parts of the splenius capitis, Sp, levator anguli scapula, Le, scalenus posticus. Sop, and scalenus anticus, Sc a, muscles. A small portion of one of the depressors of the hyoid bone, the omo-hyoid, ^, appears in this triangle. Finally, the platysma myoides, fig. 193, ^, the largest cutaneous muscle in the human body, covers nearly the whole side of the ueck. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus, figs. 186, 187, 193, ' '".—Superficial, but chiefly covered by the thin platysma myoides; consists below, of two portions or heads, an inner narrow and fusiform, and an outer wide and flattened head, the two joining about the middle of the neck, to form a thick prominent mass, which again widens out above; the inner portion upwards and backwards, the outer portion nearly vertically upwards, passing beneath the other. The inner or sternal head, tendinous in front and fleshy behind, from the front of the manubrium of the sternum, the outer or clavicular head, entirely fleshy, from the upper border of the inner third of the clavicle by a broad tendon, into the anterior border and outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, a ridge behind that process, and a small part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Between the two heads, below, is a small, but well-marked, triangular depression or fossa, just above the enlarged inner end of the collar bone, in which there is no muscular substance, but which is covered in by the fascia of the neck. The entire muscle is narrower in the middle than at either end; and it turns or twists slightly, so that its anterior surface is directed outwards, as it ascends. Sometimes its outer head, and the trapezius also, are so wide, that the two muscles meet over the posterior triangle of the neck. From having a clavicular as well as a sternal origin, this muscle is named, in full, the sterno-cleido-mastoid («:Xsts, cleis, clavis, a key); but, for brevity sake, it is usually called the sterno-mastoid. The muscle of one side flexes the head slightly, and rotates it, so as to turn the face and chin to the other side; in this action, it is assisted by the opposite splenius capitis and obliquus capitis inferior muscles. If it co-operates with the splenius and the trapezius of its own side, it inclines the head towards the corresponding shoulder. The two sterno-mastoids acting together, bow the head forwards on the neck, and then flex the neck upon the chest; in raising the head from the supine recumbent position, both muscles are also called into use, their leverage being much more advantageous than that of the prsevertebral