184 THE BONES. right angles, as is the case with the tarsus upon the leg; the fingers, with their long yet strong phalanges, are evidently destined for both firmly grasp- ing objects, and for the more delicate purposes of tact; in length, strength, and complete opposability to the fingers, the thumb surpasses that of even the highest anthropoid apes; and, lastly, the complete independence of the radivis, and the perfection of its movements of rotation with the hand, multiply the power of this wonderful instrument of touch, prehension and expression. Finally, the head, situated, not at the extremity of a longitudinal, but on the summit of a vertical column, has the face, not protruding forward, but much reduced in its relative size, as compared with the cranium, and brought well beneath the anterior part of the latter. The condyles of the occipital bone are placed horizontally and nearly beneath the centre of the skull, so that the entire weight of the liead is more easily balanced on the first cervical vertebra. Moderately sized, dorsally placed muscles, are sufficient to maintain it in equilibrium, and to prevent it falling forward ; no strong ligamentum nuchse is needed, and, as already stated, the lower cervical and upper dorsal spines are comparatively small. The Female Skeleton. As the human skeleton may be immediately recognised amongst others most nearly resembling it, so there are also such evident general and particular differences between a well-marked male and a well-formed female skeleton, that even a cursory view, by a slightly practised eye, will almost instantly detect them. Nevertheless, the determination of the sexual characters of separate or disarticulated bones, is often exceedingly difficult; especially in regard to certain less differentiated parts of the skeleton, and in the case of bones which may have belonged to small men or to large women. It is evident that the chief differences between the male and female form, are intimately associated with the differences between their osseous frames. These relate to the height, breadth, and depth of the skeleton considered as a whole ; to the size, shape, proportion, and direction of its component bones ; or to the relative development of their various parts. The entire skeleton of the female, fig. 66, is, of course, of less height than that of the male. Sup- posing the mean height of the male skeleton, to be 64 inches, that is to say, about 2 inches less than the mean stature of the living person, then the average height of the female skeleton, would be, according to Quetelet, about one-sixteenth less, that is 60 inches. On comparing the length of the trunk, with that of the lower limbs, in the two sexes, it will be found that, relatively speaking, those limbs are shorter, as well as smaller, in the female than in the male skeleton ; in other words, there is less difference in the