110 THE BONES. Each collar-bone, figs. 44, 45, is familiarly described as being shaped like a long italic letter /, so that it has a double alternating curve, of the two parts of which, the scapular portion is somewhat shorter, and more abrupt than the sternal portion. When the clavicle is in situ, the curves are turned forwards and backwards, and so disposed, that along rather more than the inner half of the bone, the anterior cm-vatm-e is convex, whilst along the re- maining outer part, it is concave; at the posterior border, the sternal portion is concave, and the scapular portion convex. The shaft of the clavicle, for it is a long bone, is smaller in the middle than at the ends, which are expanded differently from each other, the inner two-thirds being prismatic, and the outer third, widened and flattened from above downwards. The central, smaller part is composed almost entirely of compact bony tissue, but the ends contain much cancellated tissue. The under surface, more varied in its character than the upper surface, is turned, not only downwards, but a little backwards, especially where it overhangs and crosses the first costal cartilage and rib, sometimes touching the former, by a slender part of the shaft, beneath, is the long, shallow subclavian groove, for the insertion of the subclavius muscle; still further outwards, under the ex- panded and flattened acromial end of the bone, there is, first, the conoid tubercle, and, then, a rough oblique ridge, for the conoid and trapezoid portions of the coraco-clavicular ligament, which ties the collar-bone to the coracoid process of the scapula. The inner two-thirds of the upper surface, fig. 45, of the collar-bone, which is directed a little forwards, is comparatively narrow, nearly uniform in width, almost flat, and very smooth. On the concave posterior curve of its thicker sternal portion, is a narrow surface for the origin of the flat clavicular part of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle; whilst, on the convex anterior curve, is another rather broader and longer surface, spreading on to both the upper and lower aspects of the bone, for one origin of the pectoralis major muscle. On the convex posterior border of the thinner scapular end, is a part of the insertion of the trapezius muscle, which largely overlaps the upper surface of the bone; and on the correspond- ing, but shorter part of the concave anterior border, on which a rough and pointed ridge usually exists, is the anterior part of the origin of the deltoid Fig. 44.—Front view of right Clavicle. Fig. 45.—Upper view of the same. small articular facet; near its thickened sternal end, the under surface presents an oval rough impression, for the at- tachment of part of the costo-clavicular ligament, which ties the bone to that rib and its cartilage; behind this, is a small surface of origin for the sterno- hyoid muscle; along the succeeding