THE BONES. 50 surface for the reception of the expanded lower end of the femur, which is also wider transversely, especially behind, and which, in the standing position, transmits the weight of the body to the tibia. The transverse axis of the upper end of the tibia, does not lie in the same plane as the transverse axis of its lower end, for the shaft of the bone is, as it were, twisted on its long axis, so that when the transverse plane of the upper end of the bone is directed forwards, that of its lower end is turned somewhat outwards, the astragalus and the entire foot following the same direction. In front of the tibia, just where the shaft begins to expand, to form the head, about an inch or so below its upper articular surface, and to the inner side of the upper part of the anterior edge or crest, is the large, vertical, oval eminence, directed a little outwards as well as forwards, named the anterior tuberosity or tubercle of the tibia, figs. 13, 15. Into the lower roughened half of this tuberosity, and into a small part of the bone below it, is inserted the strong tendon, known as the ligamentum patellae; a closed sac or synovial bursa, intended to facilitate movement, is interposed between the ligament and the smooth upper half of the tuberosity; just above this eminence, a smooth triangular surface slopes backwards to the anterior border of the upper end of the tibia, leading to a pit or depression in that situation. The projecting and overhanging mass of the outer part of the head of the tibia is named the external tuberosity, fig. 13 ; on the under side of the back of this tuberosity, is a small oval plane articular facet, directed obliquely downwards, outwards and backwards, to which the upper end of the fibula is adapted ; the small joint thus formed, is about half an inch below the knee itself. The external tuberosity of the tibia surmounts the interosseous space between that bone and the fibula, and gives partial origin to the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. The overhanging projection on the inner side of the tibia, named the internal tuberosity, is larger than the external one, especially in the antero-posterior direction. Around its border, it is roughened for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament, and it is marked, behind, by a deep transverse groove for the insertion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. The posterior border of the head of the tibia presents a broad oblique depression, named the popliteal notch, for the lodgment and attachment of the posterior crucial ligament. To the surface of both these tuberosities, the fascia of the thigh is attached. The large upper articular surface of the tibia, on the summit of its two broad tuberosities, the great size of which is thus explained, is much wider transversely than from before backwards; it presents two shallow facets, separated from each other by an eminence and two depressions, and intended to receive the two prominent condyles of the lower end of the femur. The outer facet, for the external femoral condyle, is wider and shallower, and nearly circular; the inner one, for the internal condyle, is deeper, especially near its