182 THE BONES. which can sustain the tibia and fibula upright, on the sumnait of tlie arch of the foot, and can raise the heel from the ground, even with the full weight of the body supported on one leg. The legs and thighs, which, in man, are exceptionally placed in a line with, and not at right angles to, the trunk, are also unusually long, in pro- portion to the body, very strong, and furnished with remarkably broad and horizontal surfaces at the ankle and knee-joints, all these provisions ])eing adapted to easy, swift, and safe biped locomotion. The complete independence of the fibula, and its firm articulation with the tibia, give strength to this part of the limb, and width for the attachment of its muscles, with increased leverage for their action. The tibia can be rotated slightly, on the femur, when the knee is bent, but, in the straight position, the tibia and femur are closely locked together, so that the former, and, therefore, the entire leg, becomes vertical under the lower end of the femur, the direction of which, downwards and inwards, due to the length of its neck and the width of the pelvis, is com- pensated for, by the special elongation of its internal condyle. The great proportional length of the neck of the femur, also gives unusual width to the skeleton on a level with the greater trochanters, and advantageous leverage to the muscles attached to them, and to the pelvis. Lastly, the joints of the lower limb are so arranged, as to bend in opposite directions alternately, the foot forwards, the knee backwards, and the hip-joint forwards again, so that the whole limb can be folded up and re-stretched, as is constantly required in many modes of progression. The human pelvis is relatively broad, capacious, short, and strong, as contrasted with the narrow, elongated, and compressed pelvis of quadrupeds generally ; moreover, it is fixed at a certain angle to the vertebral column, instead of being almost in a line with it. It forms a singularly firm, solid ring, which acts as a basis for the whole trunk, whence the weight is transmitted to the lower limbs ; it likewise furnishes a means of support to the viscera, which have now to be carried in an upright position, and also affords advantageous points of leverage for the muscles which, on the one hand, balance the pelvis on the heads of the two thigh-bones, and, on the other, sustain the entire upper part of the body, both in the antero-posterior and the lateral direction, upon the sacrum. For these purposes, the sacrum is proportionally very broad, especially at its base, and the two acetabula are unusually widely separ- ated from each other, being, moreover, comparatively deep, and having their upper borders the most prominently developed. The peculiar inclination of the human pelvis, and the lines of greatest strength of its bones, are also in accordance with the direction, in which weight is transmitted through it. The moveable part of the vertebral column, in man, more nearly vertical than in any animal, is, speaking generally, largest below, and becomes smaller and lighter in passing upwards, notwithstanding its secondary