THE MUSCLES. 370 is larger than the extensor of the little finger, and, unlike it, is quite inde- pendent of the common extensor. It either assists that muscle, or acts entirely by itself, in straightening the forefinger, which has the most inde- pendent action of all the fingers, and is used specially in pointing; hence this finger is named the index finger, and the muscle the indicator muscle. When the other three fingers are flexed, the index finger can be very easily and completely extended alone, being in that case, however, adducted rather than abducted. The little finger is the next freest, and then the middle finger whilst the ring finger is the most tied down, as will be again al- luded to. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, sometimes named abductor pollicis longus, figs. 175, 177, 183, 184, " Deep-seated above, but emerges, just below the middle of the fore-arm, from beneath the common extensor, and is then superficial; broad and penniform, its fasciculi ending on a central tendon of insertion ; obliquely downwards and outwards, from the back of the fore-arm, to the outer border of the wrist, the tendon passing through a groove on the outer side of the styloid process of the radius, through the outermost compartment of the posterior annular ligament. Back of the ulna, just below the supinator brevis, back of the radius, below the same muscle, and intervening interosseous membrane—dorsal aspect of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Extensor primi internodii pollicis, figs. 175, 177, 18,S, 184, ''^ Covered for a short distance above, elsewhere superficial; much smaller than the last muscle; emerges from beneath the common extensor, lower down than that muscle, the two tendons passing through the same compartment of the annular ligament. Back of the radius and interosseous membrane, below the middle of the fore-arm dorsal aspect of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, figs. 175,177, 183,184, The fleshy portion nearly entirely covered, the tendinous part superficial; elon- gated, fusiform, but larger than the last-described muscle ; its long, slender tendon enters the oblique groove on the back of the lower end of the radius, passes obliquely through a separate compartment of the annular ligament, and crosses over the tendons of both radial extensors of the wrist, to reach and run along the back of the thumb. Back of the ulna, below the supinator brevis, and interosseous membrane dorsal aspect of the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. The three extensors of the thumb first straighten its three component bones, respectively; the second and third muscles, after fulfilling this office, obvioiisly assist in extending the bone or bones behind their points of inser- tion. The three muscles then aid in extending the wrist, and in abducting the entire hand, or drawing it towards the radidl border of the fore-arm. The