INTRODUCTION. 4 structures situated beneath the integument; and tlie special de\'elopment of these in mass and shape, is connected with the higher capacities of the human, as compared with tlie animal body. The erect attitude of man, so perfectly, easily, and gracefully maintained by him alone, necessitates breadth of foot, a columnar position and arrangement of the leg, thigh, trunk, and neck, with a concomitant breadth, roundness, and curvature, in those parts. The manifold uses served by tlie freer upper limbs, now entirely einancipated from the less noble task of locomotion, and devoted to the endless work of man's hands, demand a corresponding complexity of structural contrivance, and fulness of local form ; and lastly the due protection of man's highly developed brain, the arrangements adapted for speech, and those which are suited for the facial expression of his varied and more complex emotions, necessitate a larger and rounder head and neck, a fuller face, and more mobile features, in the forms and proportions of which, in the nose, ears, eyes, and lips, are to be traced, an especial and lavish evolution of beauty, for beauty's sake. In all these respects, man presents wide departures from, and a marked pre-eminence over the mammalia generally,—even over the group most closely resembling or approximating to him, the anthropoid apes. In these peculiarities, are to be found the explanation of the superior beauty of the human form, which, it is obvious, must ultimately and entirely depend, as regards general proportion and local quantities, on the size and shape of the structures immediately be- neath the skin. Now, it is undeniably true that the artist, if highly gifted, may compre- hend and appreciate the singularly complex surface-forms of the human body, with their subtile undulations and changes, as these may be observed in the living man, whether he be at rest, or moving in response to his emotions, his desires, or his will. It is also possible that, by continued instruction and practice, a skilled eye and h.nnd may combine to imitate or reproduce such forms in works of art of elevated style. But, in all ages and nations, the most highly gifted artist must have, at least, desired to know with certainty, the causes and conditions concealed beneath the surface, of the numerous and often fleeting swellings and hollows, ridges and depressions, and of other markings which he can perceive, but some of which he is frequently able to detect only during a passing moment. Probably even, he may have en- deavoured, by close inspection and examination, to determine their real significance. At first, he would have recourse to the simplest methods of observation. In his own person, or on that of his models, the length, position, and general shape of the bones, their effect on the proportion and forms of the several parts, especially on those of the limbs, the points where they are least, and those where they are most thickly, covered, could all be easily investi- gated. Nevertheless, although some knowledge of this kind, could be readily attained by watching and manipulating the living body, yet, wlien opportunities