14 THE BONES. reference figure, by aid of which, the names, position, and connexions of the several hones may be learnt. The Bones of the Head.—The head comprises an npper smooth roundish and liollow part, which lodges the brain and the organ of hearing, and is termed the cranium, and a lower more rugged part, which is irregu- larly excavated, which contains the organs of siglit, smell, and taste, and gives, in the jaws, support to the teeth, named the face. The term shull is really applicable to all t he bones of the head, including those both of the face and the cranium; but very often, in common language, this word is applied to the bones of the head, without including the lower jaw. The cranium (Kpuvi'ov, the skull) is composed of eight bones. Of these, some only are seen upon tlie surface, to which the attention of art-anatomists is specially required. They include the occipital bone, or occiput (oh, against or behind ; caput, tlie head), fig. 1, 0 ; two parietal bones {paries, wall of a house), left and right, P; the frontal bone (frons, the forehead), F; the two temporal bones {temyus, time, [?] because age first whitens the hair in this region), left and right, T; tlie sphenoid or luedge-like bone {a^i'iv, sphen, a wedge ; slhos, eidos, likeness, form), of which only a very small part, S, known as the great wing or ala {ala, a wing), reaches the side of the craniuiri ; and lastly, the ethmoid or sieve-like bone {i)6ijl6s, ethmos, a sieve; slSo^, form) which is placed beneath the frontal bone, between the eye sockets or orbits, and behind the bridge of the nose, and so is not visible on the sia-face of the cranium ; it is accordingly not indicated in the key figure. All the cranial bones, except the two parietal, contribute to the formation of tlie under side or base of the cranium ; but it is by the occipital bone that tl)e head is connected with the neck. All these bones meet at their edges, the lines of junction being called sutures [sutura, a seam). The cranial cavity formed by their union, contains the brain, a prolongation from wliich, passes through a large aperture in the occipital bone, downwards into the neck. The opening leading into the deep parts of the ear, and these parts likewise, are situated in the corresponding temporal bone. The/ace is composed of fourteen bones, several of which, like the ethmoid amongst the cranial bones, do not reach the surface. On the surface, there are two cheek-bones or malar bones {mala, the cheek), left and right, M ; two superior maxillary bones, or maxillai, or upper jaiv-bones {maxilla, a jaw), left and right, J, which contain the upper teeth ; two nasal bones {nasus, the nose), left and right, N, which unite to form the bridge of the nose; two lacrymal bones {lacruma, a tear), left and right, li, which are placed on the inner wall of the corresponding orbit, and assist in forming certain-bony canals, for the passage of the tears ; lastly, on the surface, there is tlie loiuer jaw-bone, or inferior maxilla, or maxillary bone (maxilla, a jaw), J', some-