THE MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 279 Leads of origin, the inner being the larger ; convergent towards the middle of the sole. Inner head, from concave inner surface of os calcis, and cal- caneo-scaphoid ligament, outer head, from imder and outer surface of os calcis, and calcaneo-cuboid ligament along the outer margin, and the upper and under surfaces of the common tendon of the long flexor of the toes, by tendinous bands, fine slips also passing to the subdivisions of that tendon for the second, third, and fourth toes, and to the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe. It not only assists the long flexor of the toes, but combines with it, so as to convert the oblique pull of the tendons of that muscle into a directly backward traction upon the toes. Lumbricales pedis, figs. 127, 128, Deep, excepting their - slender tendons between the toes ; four in number, small, tapering, wormlike, the inner one semi- penniform, the others penniform; along the inner margin of each subdivision of the long flexor tendon. Margins of those subdivisions, the inner muscle from one, the others from two adjacent sub- divisions inner margins of the expanded tendons of the long extensor of the toes. These small muscles, if the tendons of the long flexor are fixed, flex the first pha- langes of the four inner toes, and bend them to their own side. Flexor brevis digitorum pedis, fig. 128, ^ ' Superficial, but covered by the dense central portion of the plantar fascia ; pointed behind, wide and thick in front, and ending in four tendons; longitudinal, along the middle of the sole, between the abductors of the great and little toes. Inner part of the larger tuberosity of the os calcis, central portion of the plantar fascia, and adjacent intermuscular septa by its four tendons, into both margins of the under surfaces of the second phalanges of the four outer toes. The four tendons, enclosed in a strong fibrous sheath, common to both the short and the long flexor, split opposite the first phalanges, and permit the corresponding tendons of the long flexor to pass from under them, through a sort of grooved channel, the split portions again uniting beneath the long tendons ; then they once more divide into two slips, to be inserted into the margins of the second phalanges. Having flexed the second phalanges Fig. 129.—The Plantar Fascia.