61 THE THIGH-BONE. this groove is broader and extends higher up than the inner part, thus cor- responding with the broader and longer facet on the articular surface of the patella. The outer margin of the groove, moreover, projects forwards more than the inner margin, as may be best seen by looking directly at the lower end of the bone. This greater elevation of the outer trochlear border, which is owing to the greater depth of the outer condyle from before backwards, corresponds with the greater breadth and depth of the outer facet on the back of the patella; it increases the leverage action of that bone, and offers special resistance to any tendency to outward displacement, caused by the action of the extensor muscles in front of the thigh, particu- larly by that of the vastus externus muscle, which is connected with the outer border of the knee-pan. The groove of the trochlea does not follow the direction of the axis of the shaft of the femur ; neitlier is it in a line with the long axis of the tibia, which is vertical in reference to the ground. On the contrary, the centre of the groove passes, from below, inwards and upwards, fig. 19, obliquely across the axis of the femur, and slightly so, even in regard to the tibia. This entirely coincides with and, indeed, explains the fact that the patella moves, not directly upwards, but upwards and inwards, when the knee is extended after having been bent. The trochlear surface inclines from below, a little forwards as well as outwards ; in other words, it becomes gradually deeper from above downwards; but, opposite to two faintly marked slightly oblique lines, it somewhat abruptly turns backwards, to become nearly horizontal. These oblique lines bound two corresponding shallow depressions, that on the outer side being the deeper, for the reception of the anterior part of the two interarticular cartilages. It is on the trochlear surface above these oblique lines, that the patella almost entirely rests, in the straight position of the knee. In this position, the femoral articular surface, below the lines, is in contact with the cartilages and the tibia; but, during flexion, the patella descends below these lines, and comes in contact with a part of the articular surface below and behind them. The slightly oblique ridge on the patella corresponds with the bottom of the trochlear groove, and the two facets on either side of the ridge, the larger outer one and the smaller inner one, with the sides of that groove. In the straight position of the knee, the central oval parts of the two facets of the patella, are applied to the trochlear surface, above the transverse oblique lines; whilst, in the bent position, those parts descend below these lines, and there touch the femur. In the former case, the upper narrow semilunar facets are free above the trochlear surface ; in the latter, the lower ones are free in the interior of the joint. In flexion, the longitudinal facet on the inner border of the patella touches the inner condyle of the femur, along the margin of the intercondyloid fossa ; but, in extension of the joint, it is free, and projects slightly beyond the edge of the corresponding margin of the trochlear surface. Below or behind the oblique