SUEFACE FOEMS OF THE LOWEE LIMB. ' 311 sunken median surface, bounded behind, on the outer side, and in front, by the thickened padded parts of the integument of the sole, and passing gently upwards into the hollow on the inner border of the foot. Over the pads of the sole, corresponding with the seats of pressure, including the long oval pad beneath the os calcis, and the anterior curved padded elevation commencing at the ball of the little toe, and enlarging inwards to beneath the ball of the great toe, the integument is thick, and dull on the surface ; but, in the centre, and on the inner hollow part of the sole, it is thinner and brighter, and is crossed, everywhere, by numerous creases, which undulate from the front and sides of the large calcaneal pad, towards and over the inner border of the foot, but which change their direction, in accordance with the movements of the parts. The surface-forms of the borders of the foot, are obviously and mainly due to the corresponding abductor muscles, that of the little toe obscuring the prominence of the fifth metatarsal bone, and producing gently convex contours before and behind it, that of the great toe concealing the bony forms, smoothing the general outline, and producing a local fulness or convexity, in front of and below the inner ankle. The integument changes its character much more suddenly along the outer than upon the inner border of the foot; the creases which pass obliquely forwards over both borders, ai'e short on the outer, and much longer on the inner side ; here also the skin is much thinner, and, already, wandering veins are visible through it. On this border of the foot, the tendon of the tibialis anticus may be readily traced, when that muscle is in action; but the tendons behind the internal malleolus, except a short piece of that of the tibialis posticus, are lost, as they descend into the foot. On the outer side of the foot, below and in front of the external malleolus, the tendon of the peroneus brevis is easily traceable, when the muscle is in action ; but that of the peroneus longus is concealed by it, and soon disappears, as it passes deeply into the sole. On the back of the foot, the dorsal interossei not only fill in the spaces between the bones, but, when well developed, or in action, bulge upwards into view. The course of the different tendons may be distinctly recognised through the skin, forming more or less marked elevated ridges, according as their muscles are in action or at rest. The lines which they follow are so plain, that it is hardly necessary to refer to their actual anatomical relations. The mode in which they are disposed or grouped on the back of the foot, is such as completely to avoid the formality which the presence of so many nearly straight radiating cords would otherwise have produced. Thus, they are not symmetrical in themselves, either in length or thickness; they do not spread out from one common point; there is, first, a short thick tendon, the tibialis anticus, then a long strong tendon, the extensor proprius pollicis, then a cluster of long flat tendons, those of the extensor longus, and, lastly, a very