124 THE BONES. the groove, the bone widens out, to form the broad, triangular surface at the back of the flattened lower end of the humerus, here almost twice as wide as the shaft. This surface is bounded by two lateral ridges, one internal, and the other external, which end in two bony eminences, often called the internal and external condyles, the ridges themselves, which may be compared with the two lower diverging lines given off from the linea aspera of the femur, being named the internal and external condyloid ridges. The term, condyle, is, however, more appropriately applied, as in the case of the femur, to the whole of the inner or outer part of the lower end of the humerus, including its articular portion. On this understanding, the two above described eminences are named the external and internal epi-condyles ; since the latter of these is situated above the trochlear portion of the articulating surface of the bone, it is more precisely distinguished as the epi-trochlea. The internal co7idyle, using the term in its wider sense, is larger, and more prominent laterally, than the external one; it is also decidedly longer, so that the transversely widened articular portion of the lower end of the humerus, slants downwards and inwards, its inner part reaching lower down than its outer part. The articular surface is, moreover, prolonged chiefly on the front of the bone, that is, on the aspect of flexion. It is much more complex than the articular surface on the lower end of the femur, which arti- culates with only one bone, the tibia, the humerus being adapted to two. The inner and larger part of the humeral articular surface, consists of a pulley-like portion, named the trochlea, which is concavo-convex from side to side, and convex from behind forwards, to which, the upper, concave articular surface of the ulna, or inner bone of the fore-arm, is fitted, so as to complete the most perfect hinge-joint in the body ; the outer and smaller portion, con- tinuous with this, forms a smooth, rounded, convex eminence, sometimes named the capitellum or little head of the humerus, fig. 49, which is adapted to the cup-shaped cavity at the upper end of the radius, or outer bone of the fore-arm. The outer border of the trochlea fits into the interval between the ulna and the radius; it is separated from the capitellum by a distinct groove on the articular surface, into which the rim of the cup on the head of the radius, is received. The trochlear surface extends further upwards on the back of the humerus, on its inner, more elevated and more rounded margin, than on its outer and sharper margin ; it is both wider and deeper than in front of the bone, and it ends, above, in a concave border. Above this, situated between the diverging condyloid ridges, is a large, wide, and deep triangular fossa, the olecranon fossa, fig. 50, into which, during complete extension of the fore-arm, the olecranon process of the upper end of the ulna is received. In front of the bone, the trochlear surface is also continued upwards, its inner and outer margins being prominent though rounded, tlie inner one being longer, and also more elevated, than the outer one. On this