334 THE MUSCLES. region especially being flexed. If they all act on one side, lateral inclina- tion of the trunk to that side will ensue. The oblique muscles will also cause some rotation of the trunk, in which the face is turned to the opposite side, if the external oblique be in action, but to the same side, if the in- ternal oblique be brought into play. If the thorax be fixed, these muscles, co-operating on the two sides, pull upon the pelvis, and raise it forwards, as in climbing; or, acting independently, the pelvis is drawn up to one side or the other, with or without a movement of rotation. The two recti muscles, acting from below, draw the thorax downwards and forwards, or, if one acts, it may incline the trunk slightly. Acting from above, the thorax being fixed, they draw the pelvis upwards and forwards, as in climbing. The segmentation of this muscle, and its enclosure in so firm a sheath, enable it to maintain its action in all possible bendings and twistings of the body ; the segments are very numerous in very long-bodied animals, such as the weasel. The pyramidalis tightens the linea alba and assists the lower part of the rectus. The Shoulder-girdle Group, figs. 156, 157.—This consists of the four suspensory muscles of the scapula, which proceed from the vertebral column or the chest, to the base of that bone, and move it upon the thorax; it includes the levator of the angle of the scapula, the lesser and greater rhom- boids, and the great serratus muscle. Levator anguli scapulce, figs. 156, 1 61, Deep, excepting a small por- tion, left uncovered at the side of the neck between the trapezius and the sterno-mastoid muscles, fig. 187; long, tendinous and subdivided above, thick and flattened below; downwards, outwards, and a little backwards from the neck to the scapula. Posterior tubercles of upper four cervical transverse processes base of the scapula, from the superior angle to the spinous pro- cess. This muscle is subject to considerable variety; it may arise from three or five vertebrae, from the occipital bone, or the mastoid process; sometimes it is divided into bundles throughout; it may be connected with the second rib, or with the scaleni muscles, or with the great serratus. It lifts upwards the angle of the scapula, aiding the trapezius in bearing weights or in shrugging the shoulders. When the scapula is fixed, it inclines the neck to its own side and rotates it backwards. Rhomboidei minor and major, 156. The rhomboideus minor, ; deep, covered by the trapezius; rhomboidal, narrow and flat; oblique downwards and outwards, in the upper part of the back. Lower two or three cervical and first dorsal spines, and ligamentum nuchge base of the scapula, opposite the smooth triangular surface at the root of the spinous process. The rhomboideus major, deep, covered by the trapezius only, excepting a small triangular portion below, whilst another very small piece is crossed by