THE STRUCTURE AND ACTIOX OF THE MUSCLES. 251 stimulation exhausts it entirely, and rest is then needed for the restoration of its power, by re-nutrition. It is a subject of profound interest, that the will not only stimulates a muscle, but that, guided by sensations and experience, it can regulate the force and speed with which it shall act, and so govern the intensity, the duration, and, therefore, the cessation of its action. The ultimate result or effect of muscular contraction in the liviag bod}^, is the manifestation of the so-called muscular force, which produces movements or displacements of the parts with which the muscular tissue is connected, the tendency, of course, being to approximate such parts. The intrinsic value of the muscular force, as estimated by direct experiments on muscle, and measured by the work accomplished, is enormous ; but there is considerable loss in its actual employment in the body; nevertheless, every square inch of section, of the human arm muscles, can resist a weight of 85 lbs. avoirdupois, and of the muscles of the calf of the leg one of 115 lbs. avoirdupois. It has been shown that the force capable of being exerted by muscles employed in the animal economy, as compared with the necessary combustion of material, is double that developed in the best steam engines, being in the proportion of one-fifth instead of one-tenth of the total heat evolved. The total muscular force of a man, is equal to one-tenth of a horse power. The various adaptations of the muscular force to the wants of the animal frame and its several parts, are a just cause of admiration. The entire muscular system of man weighs about three-sevenths of the total weight of the living body. There are about 480 individual muscles, arranged in pairs, 240 upon each side. They vary exceedingly in size, some measuring only a few lines in length, and still less in thickness; whilst others are two feet long, several inches thick, and many wide; the muscles of the tympanum of the ear al- together weigh only a few grains, the large vasti muscles of the thigh contain as many pounds. The human muscles, fig. 119, are arranged in two or more layers, some being deep-seated upon the bones, others superficial, and some so near the skin as to be called subcutaneous; whilst a few end in the skin, and are named cutaneous. Most muscles, including all the deep ones, are attached, by both ends, to the bony or cartilaginous framework of the body; but some are fixed to the skeleton, or to cartilage, by one end only, the other being con- nected with soft parts; a few have no connexion with bones or cartilages at all, but are attached merely to soft parts. It is obvious that, in the first case, the muscular force, if permitted to act, will affect one or other, or both, of the bones to which the muscles are attached, according as these are more or less moveable at the time; in the other two cases, the bone will remain stationary, and the soft parts only be moved. The more fixed end of a muscle which is attached by each end to a bone, or the fixed end of a muscle which is attached to bone by one end only, is called its origin, the other or more