THE BONES. 130 upper two-thirds of the bone, begins above, at the apex of the triangular subcutaneous surface found on the back of the shaft, just below the base of the olecranon. Ifc may be said to commence by the meeting of the two well- marked borders of that surface, or else to bifurcate upwards, in order to enclose it. It descends in a sinuous course, along the back of the bone, first turning rather suddenly towards the radivis, then more gently away from that bone, and lastly curving towards it again, as it subsides on the smooth, tapering- lower end of the ulna, on which, however, it may be traced indistinctly to the very end. This posterior border is sometimes specially designated the posterior ridge of the ulna, fig. 54. To it, and to the innermost line of its upward bifurcation, is fixed a strong tendinous expansion or aponeurosis, which embraces the adjacent muscles of the fore-arm, and also gives partial origin, on its deep surface, to the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor carpi ulnaris in front, and to the extensor carpi ulnai'is behind. This posterior ridge of the ulna, is a most important part in reference to the surface forms. The posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna, turned somewhat outwards, towards the radius, broad above, but much narrower below, is somewhat undulating from above down- wards, and comparatively uneven, being marked in its upper three-fourths by several oblique ridges and surfaces, for the origin of muscles; but it becomes narrow, smooth, and rounded, lower down. Thus, immediately to the outer side of the upper part of the posterior ridge and its external line of bifurcation along the olecranon, is a triangular surface for the insertion of the anconeus muscle ; between that and the radial border of the bone, is the oblique line of the ulna, for the origin of a part of the supinator brevis ; below these, are surfaces of origin for two of the extensor muscles of the thumb, namely, the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis and the extensor secundi internodii poUicis, and for the extensor of the index finger. At its lower end, the ulna, having tapered down to a slender part or neck, again enlarges to form the small rounded head, the back of which projects subcutaneously behind the inner border of this part of the fore-arm, just above the wrist. It has two continuous articular surfaces. One of these, situated on the radial side of the bone, fig. 53, forms an expanded, but narrow, smooth, convex rim, cut obliquely downwards and away from the radius, and extend- ing half way around the head of the bone, on which, by a suitable concave facet, the side of the lower end of the radius rests, or plays in its rotatory movements. The other articular surface occupies the under aspect of the head of the ulna (see the small sketches near figs. 53, 56 ); it is continuous with the one just described, and is almost circular and nearly flat; it is turned down- wards, towards the wrist-joint, but is separated from it, by an inter-articular fibro-cartilage. At the inner and back part of the head of the ulna, in a line with the posterior ridge, is the small, pointed, downward projecting styloid process, fig. 54 (crrOXos, the ancient style used in writing on papyri). Between