344 THE MUSCLES. thoracic parts ; its numerous fasciculi converge towards the front of the axilla, of which it forms the thick anterior border, the clavicular fasciculi passing obliquely downwards and outwards, the upper sternal and costal fasciculi gradually less obliquely, and the lower sternal and costal fasciculi horizontally outwards, or obliquely upwards and outwards. Aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, front of the body and manubrium of the sternum, the tendinous fibres of origin sometimes decussating with those of the opposite muscle, front of six costal cartilages, namely, from the sixth to the second, and under border of the inner half of the clavicle anterior lip of the bicipi- tal groove of the humerus, by a flat tendon, which is twisted on itself. To reach this tendon, the fleshy part of the muscle also twists, fig. 162, its lower fasciculi turning up beneath the middle and upper ones, and becoming continuous with the highest part of the tendon, the middle fasciculi, but, especi- ally, the upper or clavicular ones, passing in front of or overlapping the lower ones, and ending on the lowest part of the tendon. The anterior border of the deltoid is partly received into the shallow groove or channel, formed by the twisting of the narrow outer part of the greater pec- toral muscle and its tendon, fig. 165; the arrangement re- sembles that, by which its as- sociate muscle, the latissimus dorsi, embraces the teres major. The tendons of the deltoid and the greater pectoral are connected together by fibrous tissue, and the latter is also blended with the fascia of the arm. It is by this fascia, that the axilla is closed beneath, by a sort of floor, and that the borders of the axilla are held in their position. The axillary space itself reaches up as high as the first rib, from above which the great nerves and blood-vessels descend through the space, to reach the inner side of the arm, forming a soft, longitudinal eminence, seen emerging from the arm-pit, when the limb is Fig. 162.—The Pectoral Group, with part of the Latissimus Dorsi.