388 THE MUSCLES. Table of the Muscles THE HEAD AND ¥ACE—continued. Auricular Group. Attrahens aurem, 14. Attollens aurem, 15, 15'. Eetrahens aurem, 16. Ocular Group. Eectus superior, 21. „ inferior, 22. „ externus, 23. „ internus, 24. Obliquus superior, 25. „ inferior, 26. Palpebral Group. Levator palpebrse superioris, 19. Tensor tarsi, 20. Orbicularis palpebrarum, 18. {Tendopalpebra/rum, t o). THE Neck, &c.—continued. Nasal Group. Pyramidalis nasi, 27. Compressor alee nasi, 28. Dilatatores naris. Depressor alse nasi, 30. Levator labii superioris al»que nasi, 31. Labial Group. Levator labii superioris, 32. „ anguli oris, 33. Zygomaticus major, 34. ,, minor, 35. Depressor anguli oris, or Triangularis oris, 36. Depressor labii inferioris, or Quadrat us menti, 37. Levator labii inferioris, or Levator menti, 38. Orbicularis, 39. Risorius, 40. The Muscles of the Neck. Many of the muscles situated in the neck, for example, the deep vertebral muscles and the longitudinal and divergent muscles at the back of the neck, as well as the scaleni, the levator anguli scapulae and the prsevertebral group in front, have already been described, with the muscles of the Trunk and Upper Limb. In front of the preevertebral muscles, is placed the pharynx, a membranous sac, covered outside by muscles, depending from the base of the skull, and reaching down to about the middle of the throat, where it is continuous with the oesophagus or gullet. In front of the upper part of the pharynx, and communicating with it, are the cavities of the nose and mouth ; lower down, is the root of the tongue, with its proper muscles, supported by the hyoid bone, fig. 190, h; beneath that, is the larynx, or organ of voice, t, which also opens into the pharynx ; and, below this, is the trachea or windpipe, w, into which the larynx leads, and which lies in front of the oesophagus, in the remainder of the neck, whence both tubes pass into the thorax. Suspended from the larynx, on each side of the windpipe, is the thyroid body, T. All these parts, from the sternum up to the lower jaw, are covered by muscles, some being placed below the hyoid bone, forming a depressor group, and others above it, constituting an elevator group of that bone; all are enclosed in a V-shaped space, as seen from the front of the neck, fig. 193, bounded, on the sides, by the stern o-cleido-mastoid muscles, ^ below by the sternal notch, and above by the mastoid processes of the