THE MUSCLES. 368 This muscle ' extends the wrist and metacarpal bone of the middle finger, elbow, and also abducts the hand. Extensor carpi ulnaris, figs. 176, 177, 183, 185, Superficial throughout; fusiform, the fleshy fasciculi reaching lower down than those of the radial extensors ; longitudinal, but directed somewhat inwards, along the ulnar furrow, of which it forms the posterior boundary, figs. 176, 177, and by which it is separated from the ulnar flexor of the carpus, its tendon passing on to the wrist, in a groove be- hind the styloid process of the ulna, in a separate compartment in the posterior annular ligament. External condyle of the humerus, by the com- mon tendon, middle third of the posterior border of the ulna, just below the insertion of the an- coneus and fascia of the fore-arm back of the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. It extends the wrist, and adducts the hand ; it may also aid in extending the elbow. The habitual combination of abduction of the hand with extension of the wrist joint, and of adduction with flexion of that part, are chiefly noticeable as associated movements, in the free motions of the limb ; they are in harmony with the surfaces of the joints ; the general oblique direction and later- ally placed insertions of the radial and ulnar muscles, enable them to accomplish the requisite combinations. Extensor communis digitorum, figs. 177, 183, Superficial throughout; fusiform above, its fasciculi ending obliquely, below the middle of the fore-arm, on a flat tendon, which divides into a narrow slip for the index finger, a broader one for the middle finger, and a third, also broad, which again subdivides into two for the fourth and fifth fingers ; longitudinal, down the back of the fore-arm, its four ultimate ten- dinous slips, passing in a groove on the back of the radius, and through a single compartment beneath the posterior annular ligament, to the back of the hand, and along the dorsal aspect of the fingers. External condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon, fascia of the fore-arm, and adjacent intermuscular septa by its four tendons, into the dorsal surface of the bases of the second and third phalanges of the fingers. Fig. 176.—Long Supinator, and Extensors of the Wrist.