THE JOINTS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 239 fibro-cartilage, which excludes the head of the ulna, and, below, by the sca- phoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones; it has a broad anterior ligament, spreading out from the radius and the edge of the inter-articular fibro-carti- lage, to the first row of carpal bones, and even to the os magnum, many of its fibres passing obliquely, or almost transversely, inwards to the carpal bones ; a thinner posterior ligament, fig. Ill, is also directed downwards and inwards, from the radius and the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, to the adjacent carpal bones, the cuneiform bone receiving a special band, whilst some fibres reach the back of the wrist, lower down. These two ligaments tie the carpus to the radius, so that the hand is carried securely, with that bone, in pronation and supination,, the oblique direction of their strongest fibres adapting them to this office. External and internal lateral ligaments, fig. Ill, extend from Fig. 110.—Transverse vertical section, tlirough the inferior Radio-nlnar .Joint, showing the structvire of the bones, the inter-articular tibro-cartilage, f, and the membrana sacciformis above it. Fig. 111.—Bacli view of the ligaments of the Wrist Joint, and of the inferior radio-ulnar, carpal, and metacarpal ligaments. Fig. 112.—The same, with the Wrist Joint, and tlie Transverse Carpal Joint, both laid open. the styloid processes of the radius and ulna, above, to the scaphoid and trape- zium, and to the cuneiform and pisiform bones, below, both joining the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, which is derived from the fascia. Movements.—The wrist, although a ball-and-socket joint, permits only slight circumduction of the entire hand, and no rotation ; this is owing to the lateral breadth of both the ball and the socket. Extension is more free than flexion, and adduction exceeds abduction. In the free action of the hand, ex- tension is associated with abduction, and flexion with adduction ; the oblique movements thus produced, are at once recognised, as easy and graceful; whilst the opposite combinations, namely, of extension with adduction, and flexion with abduction, are most disagreeable ; even perfectly straight extension and