224 THE JOINTS. ligament., fig. 89, partly fibio-cartilaginous, consists superficially of decus- sating fibres. The inferior or sttb-jmbic ligament, or ligameritnm arcua- tum, fig. 89, is the most remarkable, being strong, yellowish, and elastic; it completes the pubic arch below. The posterior and superior ligaments are thin. The sacra-iliac junctions, or synchondroses, are similar, but utill stronger joints. The large ear-shaped jibro-cartilages, encrusting the bones, contain a soft central part, or a cavity. There is a thin anterior ligament; but, the bones are especially held together by remarkably thick posterior ligaments, extending from the broad rough surfaces of the ilia, behind the joints, to the prominent tubercles on the back of the sacrum. The hip-bones are also fastened to the sacrum, by the two firm sacro-sciatic ligaments, anterior sjadi posterior, fig. 142, s, «', which pass on each side, from the tuberosity and spine of the ischium, to the side of the sacrum and the coccyx. Both these ligaments give origin to muscular fibres ; between them and the bones, are intervals, through which the pyriformis muscle and the compound tendon of the internal obturator muscle, pass out of the pelvis to the femur. The obturator ligament, fig. 89, which almost completely closes the thyroid foramen, gives partial origin to the two obturator muscles. The tendinous cord, named Poupart's ligament, figs. 153,154, p, reaching from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to the spine and crest of the pubes, is really tlie thickened lower border of the tendon of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, fig. 155. Movements.—The articulations of the pelvis hold its component bones together, give it elasticity, and prevent shock. The strong posterior ligaments serve to suspend the sacrum and the vertebral column above it, between the ilia, the sacrum appearing as if it would drop between those bones; but its anterior part is slightly narrowed, across the front of the alse, so that its edges are underlapped by the ilia, provided that the three bones are firmly held together by the intervening fibro-cartilages, and by the very strong liga- ments. The mixed pelvic articulations permit no intrinsic movements, capable of disturbing the local forms. Poupart's ligament, however, establishes an out- ward surface furroiv, which defines the limit between the thigh and the abdomen. The Joints of the Vertebral Column: The Sacro-coccygeal, and Coccygeal Joints.—These mixed Joints, until they become ossified after middle life, earlier in men, however, than in women, consist of interposed fibro-cartilages or inter-vertebral sub- stances, and of weak aMterior, and stronger posterior ligaments.