THE JOINTS. 230 ridge between the two costal articular facets, to the corresponding inter- vertebral disc, thus forming double planiform, or angidar hinge joints. Each costo-central joint, single or double, is completed by an anterior, stellate ligament, fig. 93, which radiates from the rib, to the vertebra above, to the vertebra below, and to the inter-vertebral disc between them. In the case of the twelfth, eleventh and first ribs, which join one vertebra only, no inter-articular ligament exists, and the stellate ligament is attached to the vertebra with which the rib articulates, and to that im- mediately above it. The small gliding costo transverse articulations, between the tubercles of the ribs and the tips of the corresponding transverse processes, are supported by a strong interosseous costo-transverse ligament, passing from the neck of the rib to the transverse process; by a 'posterior costo-transverse ligament, fig. 93, extending from the tubercle of the rib to the summit of the tranaverse proce?s of the vertebra below ; and by an anterior costo-transverse ligament, fig. 93, reaching from the neck of the rib to the transverse process of the vertebx'a above. These ligaments are modified, or absent, in the case of the first, eleventh, and last ribs. ■ The Costo-Chondral and Inter-Chondral Junctions.—The anterior end of each rib, is closely fitted to the outer end of its cartilage, and these two are held together by the periosteum and perichondrium, which invest them. There is no decided movement here, excepting, it is said, in the case of the second rib. The little gliding joints formed between the borders of the costal cartilages, from the ninth up to tha sixth, possess capsules, and overlying transverse ligaments. The Ghondro-Sternal Joints.—These planiform articulations are held together by small inter-articiilar ligaments, which connect the ends of the cartilages with the bottom of the sternal notches, and so form little double joints. Anterior chonclro-sternal ligaments, fig. 98, radiate from these cartilages on to the front of the sternum, interlacing with those of the opposite side, with those above and below them, and with the aponeuroses of the greater pectoral muscles. There are also similar, but weaker, posterior chondro-sternal ligaments. The cartilage of the seventh rib has a single joint, and a chondro-xiphoid ligament passes from it to the xiphoid appendix of the sternum. The Sternal Junctions.—The synchondrosis between the manubrium and the body of the sternum, fig. 98, contains an intervening cartilage, and is strengthened by anterior and posterior lovigiiVi6.md^ligaments. The body of the sternum is similarly connected with the xiphoid cartilage. These junctions, late in life, become osseous. Mobility can scarcely be said to exist in either; but the xiphoid cartilage itself is elastic, until it becomes ossified.