THE SHOULDER-aiKDLE. 113 flattened root, from the upper part of the neck of the bone, and points, at first inwards, forwards and upwards, and then outwards, forwards and up- wards, beneath the outer part of the collar-bone, terminating in a blunt point in front, and to the inner side of the shoulder-joint, below the level of the apex of the acromion process, towards which it seems to tend, but which it does not reach. The coracoid process is more curved than the acromion process. Along its inner or anterior border, close to its root, is a roughened surface, consisting of a tubercle and an adjoining ridge, for the insertion of the conoid and trapezoid portions of the coraco-clavicular ligament, by which the scapula is here strongly tied to, or moveably suspended from the collar-bone. The right Scapula. Fig. 46.—Front view. Fig. 47.—Axillary border. Fig. 48.—Back view. From the outer border of the coracoid process, a strong flat band, the coraco- acromial ligament, passes above the shoulder-joint to the acromion process, thus filling in the interval between these two bony processes. Into the front of the coracoid process, near its apex, is inserted the lesser pectoral muscle, which connects it with the front of the thorax ; whilst, from the apex itself, proceed the conjoined tendons of origin of the coraco-brachialis and of the short head of the biceps muscle of the arm. The upper, or clavicular border of the scapula, figs. 46, 48, is not only the shortest, but the thinnest. Upon it, close to the root of the coracoid process, is the supra-scapular notch for the passage of a nerve, and just be- yond that, a small eminence for the origin of the slender omo-hyoid muscle ; beyond this, again, the border continues sharp, and curves upwards, to the superior angle of the scapula. Commencing at this angle, is the posterior and longest border of the bone, named the vertebral border, or base ; this is thicker than the upper border, and, in a well-formed bone, is somewhat convex, or even presents an obtuse angle at the junction of its upper and I