THE BONES. 74 quadratus lumborum ; to a very thick and rough surface on the posterior fourth of this lip, a part of the erector spinae muscle. To the naiddle space of the crest, is attached, along its anterior two-thirds, a part of the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen ; to the anterior half or more of the outer lip, a part of the external oblique muscle, and to nearly all of the posterior half, a part of the latissimus dorsi muscle. The tensor vaginse femoris also arises, in part, from the anterior portion of the outer lip. To the entire length of this lip, the fascia lata is firmly fixed. The only subcutaneous parts of the ilium, are those small portions of the anterior superior spine and of the broader posterior superior spine, which are not covered by muscle or tendon, and the uneven thin margin of the crest, which intervenes between the muscles descending from it to the gluteal region, and those ascending from it to the sides of the trunk. The anterior two-thirds of the inner surface of the ala of the ilium, fig. 24, corresponding with the convex portion of the outer surface, are excavated and smooth, and give origin to and space for the iliacus muscle, which, moreover, occupies the groove on the bone, seen between the anterior inferior spine and the ilio-pectineal eminence. This surface is called the iliac fossa or venter of the ilium; its deepest part is a little above and behind its centre, at which point the ilium is thinnest and often translucent when dry. Towards the lower border of this fossa, between the upper or iliac portion of the acetabulum, and the articular surface which joins the sacrum, the ilium becomes very thick, this being the thickest and strongest part of the bone. The lower border of the iliac fossa presents a curved ridge, which constitutes the iliac portion of the ilio-pectineal line, at the brim of the true pelvis. This ridge becomes widened behind, so as to meet, and be adapted in form to, the rounded prominent anterior border of the upper surface of the sacrum. Below it, the internal surface of the ilium is slightly excavated, and forms a part of the inner wall of the acetabulum, the Y-shaped line of junction between the ischium, pubes and ilium, being there frequently visible. A part of this surface affords attachment to the internal obturator muscle. Behind the iliac fossa, the internal surface of the ilium abruptly loses its smooth character, and becomes extremely rugged up to its posterior border. The fore part of this rough portion of the bone presents a broad, very unevenly excavated, ear-shaped articular surface, having its convex border turned forwards and downwards, and following the form of the widened posterior end of the ilio-pectineal line. This articular surface is adapted to one of similar shape on the side of the sacrum, at the sacro-iliac junction. It is concavo-convex from above downwards, and also from before backwards, so that it forms an undulating, as well as an uneven, surface for articulation with the sacrum. Behind and above this articular surface, the bone becomes still more rugged for the attachment of the strong interosseous ligaments, which liere tie'the bones together.