INTRODUCTION. 5 offered themselves, and these would certainly arise, the results so reached might and would be occasionally verified by the inspection and handling of persons emaciated by age, disease or starvation ; for, from the examination of the human body, under such conditions, much knowledge concerning the deeper structures may be gained. With this view, they might also have studied the recent corpse, or sun-dried, sand-buried or mummified bodies, or even the separated bones themselves. So too, as regards the fleshy parts, and the sinews, or nerves as they were formerly called, an outward examination of these, as they swelled and sank, as they tightened or relaxed, would yield, on the living figure, much real information; and this again, would early be sup- plemented by facts obtained in the slaughtering of animals for the purposes of sacrifice or for food, or by those from time to time acquired, in relation to the human structure, through accident, or on the battle-field, or in the ex- ecution of punishment. But sooner or later the old chirurgeons of the time, would probably be consulted ; and the knowledge which they could supply both from fact and inference, derived from the study of the entire skeletons of man and animals, or from the actual dissection of the bodies of the latter, would come to be taken advantage of. By a combination of the materials thus collected,—by observation on himself and models, on the well-developed and attenuated frame, on the human bones, and on the soft parts of animals,—a large amount of sound information would be attained ; and the dawn of a scientific interpretation of the mechanism of the human body, and of the relation of this to its outward form, would thus commence. At length, by cliance or design, the opportunity would present itself, at what period cannot now be told, when it would become possiljle to dissect the fleshy and tendinous parts of the human body itself, and then the true relations of these and their influence on the surface-forms of the living frame, would sooner or later be determined. When this was done, the science and the art became associated, and a primi- tive artistic anatomy was founded. Such a step having once been taken, itwould manifestly be impossible to retrace it. The knowledge thus acquired could not be ignored, much less despised ; on the contrary, as time ran on, it would certainly appear more desirable that it should be thoroughly matured, and widely diffused. Now, history tells us that such has been the case. It is indeed open to doubt, whether the Egyptians ever prosecuted regular dissections, beyond such as they performed in the art of embalming both animals and men. The great artists of that Hamitic people, who were, however, amongst the earliest to treat the human form in an isolated and elevated manner, and even in a state approaching to the nude, needed but little or no anatomical knowledge ; for, in the execution of their sedate and emotionless images or statues, they evinced no more acquaintance with struc-