172 THE BONES. sphenoidal sutures, pass down, behind and in front of the great wing of the sphenoid, into the base of the skull. Here, the temporal bone overlaps the sphe- noid, whilst the latter overlaps the frontal and the adjacent angle of the parietal. As life advances, some of the cranial sutures show a tendency to close by bony union, which usually begins in the sagittal suture, extends to the lamb- doidal, and may aftei'wards affect the coronal and other superficial sutures. The facial sutures, named from their smoother borders harmonia, have either very thick edges, as in the malo-maxillary and inter-maxillary sutures, or thinner ones, as in the nasi-maxillary and inter-nasal sutures. Of the cranio-facial sutures, the superiicial ones, such as the zygomatic, fronto-malar, fronto-maxillary and fronto-nasal sutures, have rather thick edges and fine serratures, are very strong, and form important ties between the bones of the face and cranium ; but the deeper ones, in the orbits and nose, have usually smoother lines of contact' and connexion. Surface-forms dependent on the Bones of the Cranium and the Face. The general and particular forms of the living head and face, depend very much on those of the cranial and facial bones. Hence, the variations which occur in the dimensions and shape of these parts of the skeleton, are of great interest to the artist. The most obvious character in the human head, as distinguished from that of animals, is the great proportionate size of the cranium proper, as compared with that of the face, corresponding, as it does, with the remarkable development, in man, of the two cerebral hemispheres, which are concerned in the manifestation of the higher intellectual processes. The cranium not only protects, but undoubtedly corresponds in general size and form with the entire brain, of which the cerebrum occupies about seven^ninths and the cerebellum about one-ninth of the cranial cavity, the rest being taken up by the medulla oblongata or commencement of the spinal cord, and by membranes, blood-vessels, blood and cerebro-spinal fluid. The cerebellum is placed in the inferior occipital region, below the occipital protuberance and the superior curved line ; the cerebrum, with its large hemispheres, is situated in the superior occipital, and in the temporal, parietal and frontal regions. The general form of the cranium is more or less ovoid ; but it is some- what flattened on its base, and at the sides. Seen from below, fig. 61, where its base is so uneven, its ovoid shape is recognisable ; but this is more evident, when it is looked at from above. Its long diameter is placed in the middle line, from before backwards, from the glabella to the occipital protuberance; whilst its greatest transverse diameter, most commonly passes through the parietal eminences, but sometimes through some other prominent part of the parietal region ; it is always behind the middle of the entire mass, the outline of which, accordingly, as viewed either from above or below, curves suddenly