THE JOINTS. 238 that of the ulna. This membrane is broadest in the middle of the fore-arm, \vhere the radins is curved outwards ; it leaves rather large spaces, above and below it. It helps to tie the bones together, resists strains or shocks passing up through the radius, and furnishes surfaces of origin for neighbouring muscles. It is interesting to note that the fibres of the interosseous mem- branes in the leg and the fore-arm, anatomically considered, have a homo- logous direction, namely, from tibia to fibula, and from radius to ulna; and, this, though the office of the two limbs is different in man, the one being for support, the other for free motion. But, in the fore-arm, tlie ligament is chiefly called into use, in resisting thrusts towards the trunk, just as it is in the leg. The inferior radio-ulnar gliding articulation, figs. 109, 110, sometimes regarded as a lateral hinge joint, or a sort of rolling joint, is provided with anterior and posterior ligaments, passing across from bone to bone, a proper capsule, lined by a synovial membrane, named from its looseness, the mem- hrana sacciformis, fig. 110, and a strong inter-articular fibro-cartilage. This latter is a thick triangular plate, figs. 109, 110, f, connecting the radius with the ulna, and placed transversely beneath the head of the latter, so as to be interposed between it and the wrist-joint. Its base is fixed to the sharp margin of the radius, between its ulnar and carpal articular facets, and its apex, to the root of the styloid process of the ulna ; its anterior and posterior margins are attached to the corresponding ligaments of the wrist joint. It is bi-concave, its upper surface being in contact with the head of the ulna, and belonging, therefore, to the joint now being described ; whilst, its under sur- face is in contact with the cuneiform bone, and enters into the formation of the wrist joint. It is sometimes perforated, when the two joints com- municate. Movements.—The mechanism of the rolling movements, pronation and supination, of the radius upon the ulna, has been described, partly with the bones, and partly, just now, with the ligaments concerned. The longitudinal axis of rotation passes through the neck and head of the radius and the capi- tellum of the humerus, on the one hand, and through the lower end of the radius and the head of the ulna, down through the ring-finger, on the other. The radius rolls within a fibro-osseous ring above, and upon a rounded sur- face below. The extent of rotation is about half a circle. Supination and pi'onation are both checked by the interosseous and oblique ligaments ; pro- nation is arrested, just before actual contact, or collision of bone with bone, although they then cross each other. The Wrist Joint.—The xorist joint or radio-carpal articulation, figs. Ill, 112, is a modified, broad, ball-and-socket joint, formed, above, by the lower end of the radius and the under surface of the radio-ulnar inter-articular