THE MUSCLES OF THE FORE-AEM. 365 aponeurosis common to it and the flexor carpi ulnaris by four tendons, which descend through the palm, and along the fingers, under cover of the tendons of the flexor sublimis, but, opposite the first phalanges, pass through the splits in those tendons, and then continue to the bases of the last pha- langes. This is the flexor perforans muscle. In the palm, its four tendons give origin to the four lumbricales muscles, to be presently described. It not only flexes the last phalanges of the fingers, after the second have been bent by the flexor sublimis, but it also helps to flex the entire fingers and the wrist, and, to a slight extent, the elbow. Flexor longus pollicis, figs. 172, 173, 174, 181, Deep, except for a short distance above the wrist, between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and supinator longus ; semi-penniform, its fasciculi reaching as low down as the wrist, to the under side of a flat tendon ; longitudinal, in front of the radius, its tendon passing beneath the annular liga- ment, and then along the palmar aspect of the thumb. Upper two thirds of the front of the radius, below its oblique line, neighbouring portion of the inter- osseous membrane, and, often, the base of the coronoid process of the ulna front of the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. An accessory tendon sometimes exists, proceeding, in different cases, from the flexor sublimis, from the coronoid process of the ulna, from the internal condyle of the humerus, from the flexor profundus, or from the pronator teres. It flexes, in succession, the last phalanx, ^, „ J , - , , , , Fig. 173.—The Deep Flexors of the the first phalanx, and the metacarpal bone Fingers and Thumb. of the thumb, and then the wrist. 5- Q -J" 3J The Extensor and Supinator Group, figs. 174 to 177, and 183 to 185.—This includes two supinators, one deep and the other superficial, just as there is a deep and a superficial pronator; also, three extensors of the wrist, namely the long and short radial extensors, and the ulnar extensor of