THE JOINTS. 202 nature ; it is, in fact, albuminous, and, from its resemblance to unboiled white of egg, is named synovia (^a-vv, like ; wov, an egg), the membrane which secretes it, being called the synovial membrane. The use of the synovia is to diminish friction, and facilitate noiseless motion, at the joints. External to the capsule, is situated, usually, more or less fatty tissue, which often pro- jects into folds of the synovial membrane, and so fills up intervals between the bones. In the most moveable joints, this surrounding fatty tissue is very abundant. Upon the capsule, and commonly blended with it, are placed the proper ligaments, fibrous bands, which consist of a strong, non-extensile, white fibrous tissue; in some joints, these spread ovit and merely strengthen the capsule, whilst in others, they form more or less distinct, dense, flattened, shining, silvery bands, or rounded cords. They not merely hold the bones together, but serve the special purpose of controlling and checking the move- ments of the joints. In some situations, as in one of the ligaments in the sole of the foot, in another at the back of the ankle, and elsewhere, yellow elastic fibres are blended with the white, non-extensile fibres. Between the arches of the moveable vertebrae, as high up as the axis, yelloiu ligaments exist, of pure yellow elastic tissue, which act like springs, after they have been stretched, drawing the bones together again, independently of muscular action. Frequently, the ligaments of the moveable joints are reinforced, as it were, by the tendons of muscles, which are connected with, or pass over them, and, in a few instances, muscular fibres are attached to the capsule, and to the inter-articular cartilages, if these exist, so as simultaneously to draw these parts out of the way, during the action of the joint. In some places, as between the sides of the tarsal and carpal bones, and between the ribs and the transverse processes of the vertebrae, fibrous bands, called interosseous liga- ments, pass directly between twc adjacent bones, more or less close to a joint; their presence gives additional strength and elasticity to the parts in which they occur. The tibia and fibula, and the radius and ulna, are tied together, through nearly their whole length, by broad interosseous membranes, which serve, likewise, to give partial origin to neighbouring muscles. Sometimes, as between the ischiiun and sacrum, and between the ilium and the last lumbar vertebra, very strong ligaments pass from bone to bone, at a considerable distance from a joint; and, again, a ligament may extend from one point to another on the same bone, as occurs on the scapula ; or a fibrous membrane may serve to close an opening in a bone, like the obturator membrane in the innominate bone. The several varieties of the moveable articulations, or diarthroses, are named after the form of their articular surfaces, and the nature of the move- ments permitted at them. They are, the simple planiform, or gliding joints; the trochlear, pulley-like, or hinge-like joints; the ball-and-socket, or universal joints ; and lastly, the pivot or rolling joints.