THE MUSCLES. 416 them, the full oblique elevation of the middle portion of the miiscle, its thicker anterior border, and its broader and less prominent upper end, reaching to the skull behind the ear, are all quite conspicuous, when the face is turned to the opposite side. On that side, however, the greater part of the general form of the muscle, is completely lost, its place being occupied, in the contorted neck, by a deep, oblique, sinuous doubling of the loose integu- ment, thickened by the subjacent, relaxed and similarly folded platysma myoides ; even the upper and lower ends of the muscle, no longer in action, are much obscured. At the lower part, or apex, of the V-shaped region be- tween the two sterno-mastoids, the boundaries of that region, formed by the sternal origins of those muscles, sharply elevated, and limiting the width of the supra-sternal or inter-clavicular notch, are strongly pronounced, and, when the neck is held symmetrically, equally so ; for, here, the intervening narrow and rounded part of the throat, corresponding with the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, lying upon the trachea and the lower part of the thyroid body, is inclined downwards and backwards, so as to leave a well- marked depression between the tendons of the sterno-mastoids. Higher up, the borders of the V-shaped space become toned down, and, at the same time, the intermediate laryngeal form is broader and more prominent. The details of this form due to the thyroid body in the male and female, to the sometimes slightly recognisable cricoid cartilage, to the Pomum Adami or blunt angular eminence of the thyroid cartilage, differing in the two sexes, and, lastly, to the retiring hyoid bone, held back by its ligaments and its elevator muscles, have been fully explained with the anatomy of this region, p. 397. The inclined plane, situated above the hyoid bone, and between the two halves of the lower jaw, is slightly convex, owing to the anterior portions of the two digastric muscles projecting below the comparatively flat mylo-hyoids ; traced backwards, this plane ends, laterally, in a narrow groove, running beneath the angle of the jaw, whence a depression along the hinder border of the ramus, is traceable upwards to the ear, bounded behind by the upper part of the divergent sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the ear, and behind the ramus of the jaw, the parotid gland, lying on the posterior portion of the digastric muscle, and, below the body of the jaw, the submaxillary gland, reaching some way downwards, help to obscure the subjacent forms. Beneath the chin, an accumulation of fat accomplishes the same result. All the parts in the neck, are not only held together in their action, but softened down in their form by the strong cervical fascia, and still more by the platysma myoides and the skin, the two latter, in thin persons, causing ridges which descend obliquely on each side, from beneath the chin, over the re- entering hyoid angle and the laryngeal eminence, and, then diverging, descend over the inner end of the collar bones. In old age, when the skin loses its natural elasticity, and the subcutaneous fat disappears, these ridges become