THE MUSCLES. 418 shape, so that nowhere can their size, direction, or outlines be traced upon the surface. They are all concealed by the soft mask of the skin, to which they are more or less adherent, especially at their points of insertion into its under surface. When in action, they sometimes cause depressions or dimples, cor- responding with the attached ends of their scattered fasciculi, as seen near the comers of the mouth, and just above the chin; or they produce folds and wrinkles, very nearly at right angles to the direction of their fasciculi, as seen across, or up and down, the forehead, over the bridge of the nose, at the outer corner of the orbit, and between the cheek and the angle of the mouth. In the limbs, where physical action is the ruling motive, the display of the me- chanism of muscle and tendon, by which the work is performed, even lends emphasis to the expression of effort; but, it would seem that, in the face, whereon the feelings and emotions are enregistered, this is especially avoided. The apparatus of movement is there hidden ; for the muscular fasciculi which produce the changes in the forms of the countenance, representative of those feelings and emotions, and every feeling and emotion has its concomitant movements, are effectually concealed. The changes of form alone are permitted to be seen, as though the simultaneous display of the mechanical means employed, would disturb the observation and recognition of the subtile facial mutations themselves. In certain parts of the face, as upon the broad cheeks, and upon the central eminence above the chin, a considerable amount of fat exists, and the inte- gument is there moved in mass; but in the parts where wrinkling is possible, the skin is thinner and more, or almost absolutely, free from subjacent fat; this is especially the case in the eyelids,, where the freest movements are essential, and where the presence of fat would seriously interfere with their office. A deep crescentic fold, accompanied by the formation of a curved prominence, wider at the outer than the inner part of the orbit, and due, in some measure, to the presence of the deeply seated lacrymal gland, is formed above the upper eyelid, and another crescentic fold, below the lower eyelid, when the lids are open ; but both these folds disappear, when the eyelids are closed. In the thin part of the skin near the inner corner of the eye, a bluish line or two indicates the course of the so-called angular vein and its branches. Veins are also recognisable under the comparatively thin skin of the temple ; and, often, a large frontal vein descends upon the forehead, down to one side of the root of the nose. This is the so-called ' vein of wisdom '; it might rather be called the vein of anger, for, in that passion, it becomes very full; this is true also of the external jugular vein, on the side of the neck. A large frontal vein is an hereditary peculiarity, as is mentioned in the story of' Eedgauntlet.' The determinate and unchangeable forms of the ear, the firmly modelled nose, and the agreeable curvature and chiselled margins of the eyelids, are