THE BONES. 186 length of the trunk in the two sexes, than there is in that of the lower limbs. Hence men and women appear of more equal height when sitting together, than when standing side by side. The proportion between the upper and lower limbs, is said to be more agreeable or perfect, in the female, than in the male. As to the breadth of the skeleton from side to side, that of the female skeleton is, speaking generally, less than that of the male; but this inferiority in width is most marked across the slioulders, and least so across the region of the hips. This is dependent on the fact that the male skeleton is broader across the shoulders, than opposite the hips; whilst the female skeleton, is of almost equal or of equal width, in those two regions. Sometimes, the measurement across the hips, in the female, actually exceeds that in the male, as in a comparison between male and female skeletons of similar, or nearly similar, height. The dimensions of the pelvis in the female, are more independent of the stature than in the male. The depth of the female skele- ton, from before backwards, is less, at all points, than that of the male skeleton; but the difference is least marked in the pelvic region. Speaking generally, every bone in the female skeleton, in harmony with the slighter frame of the woman, is shorter, more slender, lighter, and weaker, than the corresponding bone in the male; at the same time, all the various notches, foramina, canals, and cavities, such, for example, as the obturator fora- men of the innominate bone, the spinal canal, the thorax, the sternal notch, the foramen magnum in the occipital bone, the cranium, the orbits, the nasal fossae and the mouth, are, likewise, smaller, the parts which these transmit or contain, being themselves of less bulk. Again, the articular surfaces of the joints, of whatever kind, as, for instance, those of the vertebrae, those of the tarsus, the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, or the head of the femur and the ace- tabulum, are also smaller in the female, in whom the joints are of less size. The curvatures and twists which characterise certain long bones, are much less pronounced in the female. The eminences, lines, ridges, tuberosities, tubercles, and processes, are less marked and prominent, roughened surfaces are less rugged, and depressions and grooves are shallower, in accordance witli the smaller size and relative weakness of the ligaments, tendons, and muscles attached to, or associated with, them; such are the hinder prominence of the OS calcis, the anterior tuberosity of tlie tibia, the trochanters of the femur, the spinous processes, the crest and the curved lines of the ilium, the spinous and other processes of the vertebrae, the spinous process, acromion and coracoid process of the scapula, the tuberosities of the humerus, the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, the styloid processes of that bone and the ulna, the pisiform bone of the carpus, and tlie various grooves about the tarsus and wrist, the curved lines on tlie occipital, parietal, and temporal bones, and, the mastoid processes of the last. To express the facts in an opposite way, the male skeleton is not only larger and stronger, but much more rugged in its forms,