118 THE BONES. symmetry, but must avoid the exaggerated forms produced by the excessive labour, to which so many human beings are destined. There can be no doubt, that the relative length of the collar bones, is a main element in determining the breadth or narrowness of the shoulders ; but the width and depth of the upper part of the thorax, also concur in this effect. If the chest be shallow, and narrow at its summit, the collar-bones with the scapulae must drop, and so the horizontal distance between the two shoulders, will be lessened ; whereas, if the thorax is wide, and deep above, the scapulae and the collar-bones are elevated to their full height, the latter become horizontal, and the shoulders are carried widely out. Nevertheless, the length of the collar bones must assist in determining this part of the form. At the same time, in tall men, whose collar-bones, like the other long bones, are lengthy, the shoulders may be comparatively narrower than in short men, whose clavicles would be relatively shorter. This must depend on tall men having long, narrow, flat chests, whilst short men have the thorax re- latively short, wide and deep. It is evident, however," that long, strong and well-curved collar-bones are characteristic of vigour of frame. As these bones are absent in certain quadrupeds, the fore limbs of which are used for locomotion only, and are possessed by those mammalia which have prehensile anterior limbs, it is evident that their presence is indicative of the higher purposes to be served by the anterior limbs of the latter. It is remarkable, also, that the cartilages from which they are developed, are the first parts of the skeleton, which begin to be ossified, at least in man. These facts point to the great anatomical and physiological significance of the clavicles, which bones form a secure basis of support and movement for the shoulders, and, at the same time, thrust them out so as to give freedom of action to the arms, and greater leverage to the muscles of the shoulder-joint. Their value, in regard to the beauty of this part of the human form, is very great. Though they are long, they are very slender, and only slightly and inelegantly curved in the anthropoid apes. The numerous variations of length and curvature, which they present in man, must not be lost sight of. To put strongly curved collar-bones, to a young and delicately formed figure, or nearly straight and slender ones, to a mature and vigorous frame, must be wrong, even if individual varieties may be met with in models, which might appear to justify such a treatment of the figure. In the creation of special ideal forms, as for example, of an Angel or a Demon, an Apollo or a Hercules, the characteristic peculiarities of these remarkable bones, must be observed; and their occasional asymmetry, due to the disproportionate use of one arm, must be eliminated, as an accidental and individual peculiarity, incompatible with the most beautiful conception of the human form. The effects of the scapula on the surface-forms, require first to be understood, as seen when the bone is in its normal position, with the