267 THE COVEKINGS OF THE MUSCLES. now assumed and fixed, in the final repose of death. The head, however, if unsupported, remains fallen backwards, or forwards, or to one side, the muscles of the neck having no power, even when they become rigid, to overcome its weight, so that they stiffen as they lie. The trunk may be straight or coiled up; the limbs extended, or folded, the upper ones sometimes retaining an atti- tude of grasping, assumed in the last moments of life, and the lower ones remain- ing straight and rotated outwards, or bent up, according to the conditions of the surface on which they may have fallen and rested at the moment of death. The toes and fingers become flexed, because the flexors are stronger, or perhaps because they are shorter than the extensors, and the thumb especially is strongly bent and drawn across the palm, within the closed fingers. It is said that the rigor mortis may commence as early as, but not earlier than, about ten minutes after death, and not later than seven hours after that event, the former fact being frequently ignored by actors, who are carried off rigid, from the stage, immediately after having mimicked death ' to make a ' modern ' holiday.' The rigidity may last only half an hour, or may continue for a week. It comes on earlier and departs sooner, when the system has been exhausted during life by disease ; but it appears later and lasts longer, when death occurs suddenly, in a previously healthy person. The stiffening begins, in the neck and face, extends to the upper and then to the lower limbs, and it passes off in the same order. This condition of rigidity is not a vital act, but depends on post-mortem chemical changes in the muscle, one effect of which is the coagulation of the myosin into syntonin. Still later, further chemical decompositions occur, and the muscular substance again becomes soft, and the muscles quite flaccid. It is either in the later stages of this rigid condition, or in the earlier stages of final softening, that the anatomist explores the muscles; and in order to translate the appearances displayed by the scalpel, the artist must restore, by more or less modification of the forms actually observed, the configuration of the parts as they would exist in life. The dissected view of the muscles of the head and neck represented in fig. 186, serves to show, by comparison with fig. 187, on the opposite page, the differences here alluded to. The Coverings of the Muscles. The Fasciae, deep and supee- FiciAL, the Skin, and the Subcutaneous Veins. The muscles are covered, immediately, by a firm membranous investment named the fascia, or 'prosper fascia ; over this, is a loose single or double layer of areolar or connective tissue, called the superficial fascia, in which the cutaneous muscles, and subcutaneous veins are situated; over this again, is the common integument or skin.