80 THE BOxNES. on both legs on a level surface, the points corresponding with the anterior superior spinous processes, must also be in a horizontal line. Any inclination, downwards and sideways, of one anterior or posterior superior spinous process, such as occurs in standing on one leg, must be associated with a corresponding- degree of elevation of the other. A depression of the two anterior processes, as in leaning forwards, must be accompanied by a relative elevation of the two posterior ones. The pelvis, indeed, moves on the thighs as a whole, forming a firmly united and practically solid mass amongst the soft parts, occupying the middle of the body, between the moveable thighs below, and the flexible lum- bar region above. Its exact position can always be accurately determined, by referring to its two subcutaneous points in front, and its three subcutaneous points behind. The sculptor will remember that, under all circumstances, the distances between those points must remain unchanged, and must be equal on the two sides of the body; and, moreover, that the relative positions, be- tween those of one side, must correspond with the relative positions of those of the other. For example, a given inclination of the two anterior points from the horizontal line, when seen from the front, must be associated with a precisely similar inclination of the two posterior points at the base of the sacro-iliac triangle, as seen from behiud. A disregard of these necessary con- ditions is not uncommon. The Moveable Vertebrae. The Moveable Part of the Vertebral Column. The lower, immoveable part of the vertebral column or spine, consisting of the sacrum and the coccyx, having been described as parts of the pelvis, it remains here to examine the upper, moveable part, extending from the base of the sacrum to that of the skull, occupying the regions of the loins, back, and neck, and consisting of twenty-four vertebrae, lumbar, dorsal, and cervical, each set being numbered from above downwards, namely, the first to the seventh cervical, the first to the tivelfth dorsal, and the first to the fifth lumbar. They are arranged one upon the other, and held together, so as to form a strong, curved, flexible, elastic column, fig. 26. In the natural skeleton, they are chiefly connected by a series of interposed fihro-cartilaginous discs, the intervertebral substances, replaced, in the artificial skeleton, by discs of cork, covered with leather, fig. 27. Each vertebra consists of several parts. Of these a central massive part, directed forwards, is named the centrum, centre, or body, fig. 27; behind this, is an arch, the so-called neurcd arch, composed of two equal and lateral halves, right and left, each of which again consists of a short piece, next to the centrum or body, called the pedicle, and of a longer piece, reaching from this, backwards and inwards, to the middle line, named the lamina., fig. 26. The body and the arch together form a rhu/, which