155 THE BOXES OF THE CKANIUM. its prominence with regard to the rest of the bone ; it is the thickest, and strongest part of the bone. A short distance below this eminence, the curved line just mentioned, forming part of the temporal ridge, arches from before back- wards across the bone ; below it, the parietal bone forms a part of the temporal fossa, and is covered first by the temporal muscle, to which it gives partial origin, and, over that, by the temporal fascia, which is itself attached along the curved line; above and behind the line, the bone is covered only by the ex- panded tendon or aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle. The posterior borders of the two parietal bones, somewhat sinuous, are con- nected by thick and deeply indented edges with the occipital bone; the superior borders, straight, are joined to each other by serrated edges, along the middle line at the vertex of the skull; the anterior borders, which are slightly incurved, are united, by a finely serrated edge, with the frontal bone; and the lower border of each, by thin and bevelled edges, with the sphenoid bone and with the flat part of the temporal bone, and, further back, by thick rough edges, with the mastoid part of the latter bone. The outer and inner tables of the parietal bones are nearly equidistant all over, but are somewhat more separated opposite the parietal eminences, where the tables are thicker, and the diploe is more abundant. The Frontal Bone.—The frontalhone, figs, 62,63,F, like the occipital, is, in the adult, a single median bone. It completes the forepart of the skull, constitutes, as its name implies, the portion of the cranium corresponding with the forehead, forms the root of the nose and the upper border of the orbits or eye sockets, and, lastly, sends backwards two bony plates, which form the roofs of those cavities, and part of the base of the cranium. The orbital plates, fig. 63, entirely removed from the surface, are thin, concave on the under surface, and arch over the orbits ; between them, and seen only inside the cranium, is an interval into which the ethmoid bone is fitted. In front of this, a process, named the nasal spine, projects deeply, downwards and forwards, from the median portion of the bone towards the nose. The frontal portion of the bone, or frontal plate, is convex and quite smooth in its upper part, and exhibits, on each half of the bone, like the separate parietal bones, a curved line, which marks off a more covered from a less covered portion, and also a special bony eminence. It likewise possesses other eminences, ridges, and processes ; its fore-part is sometimes named the sinciput {semi, half; caput, the head). The curved lines of the frontal bone, figs. 62, 63, I, are seen one on each side, above the temples ; they form the anterior portion of the temporal ridges, fig. 62, I, I, limit the temporal fossae in front, and become continuous backwards, with the portions of those ridges situated on the parietal bones;