thp: muscles. 272 appear through the skin. The smaller branches in which they commence, emerge gradually into view, as meandering blue lines, but soon they form very definite, but soft and easily obliterated, straight or tortuous elevations, which unite into fewer and larger ones, as the veins which produce them pro- ceed towards the heart, until they end in a few still larger and straighter venous trunks, which dip into, and disappear beneath the proper fascia, fig. 124, to join the deep veins. Owing to the presence of valves in the interior of the veins, situated opposite little pouches in their sides, the veins themselves are not uniform in outline, but have a slightly knotted appearance ; this is more evident in the larger and straighter trunks, than in the small tortuous branches. The course of the smaller subcutaneous veins is so various, in different subjects, that, even for the anatomist, only a general description of them is possible ; that of the larger trunks is more constant. A few words concerning each, will be found in the account of the surface-forms of each region in which they occur. They become fuller under the influence of gravity, or a dependent position of any part; also when the muscles of a limb . are acting powerfully, whether under emotion or voluntary control; likewise, when the body is heated and the integuments relaxed, and when the breath is strongly held, an act which checks the return of blood to the heart. On the other hand, cold, repose, sleep, and a horizontal or elevated position of the body, or of any part, diminish the calibre of the superficial veins. THE INDIVIDUAL MUSCLES. The individual muscles, sometimes arbitrarily or insufficiently defined, are named, on very different principles. Some, for example, from their shape, as the orbicularis, triangularis, quadratus, rhomboideus, serratus, tra- pezius, and deltoid; others, from the number of their origins or longitudinal divisions, as the biceps, triceps, quadriceps and multifidus, or of their trans- verse divisions, as the digastric, or of both, as the complexus ; from their direction, as the recti, the transversalis and the oblique ; ft'om their relation to certain bones or other parts, as the tibialis and peronei, the obturators and intercostals; from their attachments, both of origin and insertion, as the sterno-cleido-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid and occipito-frontalis ; from their regional position, as the popliteus, glutei, palmaris, and temporal muscles ; and, lastly, from their action or use, such as the extensors, flexors, abductors, adductors, pronators, supinators, rotators, elevators, depressors, com- pressors, and dilators, the meanings of which terms need no explanation. Many of the muscles present varieties in their form and attachments. Occasionally, they are unusually divided into two or more parts ; sometimes a portion of a muscle is absent, or the entire muscle may be wanting; a muscle may have an additional origin, or insertion, or be closely united with