53 THE BONES OF THE LEG. wards and forwards, articulates with the corresponding facet on the back of the overhanging' external tuberosity of the tibia, a little below the level of the knee joint. Around this, the bone gives attachment to the ligaments of that joint; it gives partial origin in front to the peroneus longus, and behind to the soleus muscle. Surface-forms dependent on the Bones of the Leg. As in the case of the foot, so in the leg, the great breadth, or, as it may here be termed, the roundness of the human limb, is in striking contrast with tlie comparative flatness noticeable in the limbs even of the highest vertebrate animals. This is due, not only to the existence of two distinct bones through- out the whole length of this part of the lower limb, but to their relatively wide separation from each other; for, in those vertebrata, they are either more closely compressed together, or the fibula is more or less undeveloped below, and becomes adherent to, or, as it were, fused with-, the tibia above. The tibial surface-forms, commencing from below, are, first, the prominence due to the internal malleolus, which is broad, somewhat triangular, but has its upper angle truncated, and continuous upwards with the long subcutaneous inner surface of the bone. The base of this malleolar triangle, which is directed downwards, is not straight, but is bounded by a broken or bent line passing obliquely downwards and forwards ; hence the lower part of this surface-form points a little forwards. The anterior side of this irregular triangle is nearly straight, but the posterior one is somewhat convex. The internal malleolar eminence is, of course, like the bony projection to which it is due, larger, and placed further forward and higher up, than that of the external malleolus. It overhangs the inner border of the arch of the foot. Secondly, the long subcutaneous inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, slightly trespassed upon by the muscles in front and to its outer side, and by those behind and to its inner side, may be traced from the malleolus below, to the wide ex- panded head of the bone above; it is slightly convex from side to side, and undulating when followed along its length ; it presents behind, at its upper part, a curved boundary line, dependent on the soleus muscle, below this, a less marked curved border due to the long flexor of the toes, and still lower, a straighter line corresponding with the tendons of that muscle and of the tibialis posticus; in front, it is bounded by the undulating line, which corresponds both with the thin anterior edge or crest of the tibia, and the fleshy portion of the tibialis anticus muscle above, and with the smoother border of the bone, and the straighter line of the tendon of that muscle below. As already stated, the smooth surface of this part of the tibia, with its waved borders, more or less concealed or overlapped, blends in composition with the soft parts adjacent to it; and, most frequently, and especially when the muscles are in strong action, it corresponds with a depression on the general