THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 407 drawn directly backwards in the orbit. The outward and inward movements of the eyeball, are precisely horizontal; but, as the superior and inferior recti pass obliquely outwards and forwards, so as to reach the eyeball at an angle with its antero-posterior axis, the upward and downward movements produced by those muscles, must be accompanied by deviations of the eyeball inwards, which, however, are corrected by the two oblique muscles. Obliqui, superior and inferior, &gs. 194, 195, 196. Deep; the superior, a long slender muscle, with a long deflected tendon, the inferior, much shorter and thicker; the superior or trochlearis muscle, longitudinal, as far as a fibro-cartilaginous loop or pulley (trochlea), found at the upper and fore part of the inner wall of the orbit, through which the tendon passes, and then turns outwards, downwards and somewhat backwards, above the eyeball, the inferior muscle, outwards, upwards and somewhat backwards, beneath the eyeball. The superior oblique, from the inner border of the foramen for the optic nerve, at the back of the orbit by a flat tendon, to the sclerotic, on the outer side of the eyeball, behind its middle. The inferior oblique, from the inner and fore part of the floor of the orbit by a flat tendon, to the sclerotic, on the outer side of the eyeball, behind its middle. The two oblique muscles are said to rotate the eyeball on its antero-posterior axis, though certainly not to any great extent, the superior rolling its upper half, and the inferior its lower half, slightly inwards. But the superior oblique, acting on a part of the eyeball behind its transverse diameter, directs the front of the eye- ball downwards and outwards, whilst the inferior oblique, from a similar cause, directs the front of the eyeball upwards and outwards; if both muscles act, they turn the front of the eyeball directly outwards. These appear to be corrective actions, in regard to those deviations produced by the superior and inferior recti just mentioned, the inferior oblique correcting the deviation due to the superior rectus, the superior oblique that due to the inferior rectus, and the two oblique muscles concurrently, those due jointly to the two recti. By various combinations of action, the consensual, straight and oblique move ments and positions, necessary for the adjustment of the two eyes towards a common point, in order to obtain single vision, are performed and assumed. The changes in position of the eyeballs, incidental to the expression of the various feelings and thoughts, are, likewise, thus accomplished, such as hope, devotion, shyness, cunning, cowering or shame. The Palpebral Group, figs. 186, 187, 193, 196.—This includes the levator of the upper eyelid, and the tensor of the lids, both placed within the orbit, and also the orbicular muscle of the lids, situated outside it. The eyelids, palpebral, or tarsi. These parts contain, each, for purposes of support, a small, thin, soft, semi-lunar plate of fibro-cartilage, curved so as to fit the eyeball. One border of each cartilage corresponds with the margin