THE MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 373 and then assists in drawing it forwards, and opposing it to the fingers. This muscle completes the adductor group. The seven interossei, together with the abductor of the little finger, and the abductor and the adductor of the thumb, furnish ten muscles, five of which abduct, and five adduct the fingers and thumb respectively, at their bases, or metacarpo-phalangeal joints. These are ball-and-socket joints, and, therefore, capable of the movement of circum- duction, which is performed by the consecutive action of the abductor, ex- tensor, adductor, and flexor muscles, in each case. The Opponent Group, fig. 180.—This group consists of the op- ponens muscle of the little finger, and the opponens of the thumb ; they are not peculiar to the hand, there being, sometimes, small equivalent muscles in the foot. Their full development is associated with the existence of the unusually moveable articulations at the bases of the fifth and first metacarpal bones, into which they are inserted ; they afiford good examples of special anatomical correla- tion between muscles and joints. Opponens poinds, ■B.gs. 179 to 181,184, ®^ —Deep, but projecting superficially along the outer border of the abductor pollicis; broad, quadrangular, powerful; oblique downwards and outwards, being the outermost of the muscles of the ball of the thumb. Oblique ridge and surface of the trapezium, and anterior * ^ Fig. 180.—Opponent Muscles of annular ligament whole length of the front the Thumb and Little Finger. and outer border of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. It flexes the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and, hence, has been named the flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis; it not only draws that bone inwards and forwards across the palm, but rotates it, at its saddle-shaped joint on the trapezium, so as to enable the thumb to be opposed to any or all of the fingers, and its point to meet any or all of their tips. Opponens minimi digiti, figs. 179 to 181, 185, Deep; broad, quad- rangular ; oblique, downwards and inwards. Hook-like process of the unci- form bone, and anterior annular ligament whole length of the ulnar border of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Acting on the im- perfectly saddle-shaped joint at the base of the fifth metacarpal bone, it flexes that bone, and draws it in front of, or opposes it to the ball of the thumb, in this way, raising up the inner border of the palm, and increasing the depth of the hollow of the hand. The Short Plexor Group, figs. 179, 181.—This includes the short flexor of the little finger, and that of the thumb, which complete the muscles