178 THE BONES. * cranium and the face continue to grow, up to the period of adult life ; but the cranium especially, is, in proportion to the stature and mass of the body, much larger in infancy than in childhood, and larger in the child than in the adult. The face, however, is, relatively to the cranium, smaller in early life than afterwards. These facts are rendered evident in the proportionally larger size of the head in infants and children, as compared with adults, and in the smaller size of their features. In the very young infant, the cranium is often much elongated from before backwards, being especially large in the occipital region, compressed from side to side, and, at the same time, deficient in height; but it speedily fills out, as it were, and acquires, what may be termed its juvenile characteristics. These are a general roundness and smoothness, owing to a relatively fuller form over the occipital, frontal, and especially over the parietal eminences, and to the absence of the superciliary eminences, due to the non-existence or rudimentary condition of the frontal sinuses. The vertex and the forehead are, in particular, very smooth and rounded, and the latter very pro- minent in profile, owing partly to the non-development of the superciliary emi- nences and supra-orbital ridges, but also to the relatively small size of the face, ■which the cranium now seems, as it were, to overhang. The external frontal angles, the malar eminences, and the zygomata, as well as all the processes and ridges of the cranium and face, are feebly pronounced; the temporal fossae are shallow, and the mastoid processes are small, their cells or sinuses being in a rudi- mentary state of evolution. The occipital condyles are small, and placed further forwards, in relation to the mass of the bead. Owing to the fulness of the temporal, parietal, and lateral frontal regions of the cranium, and to the slight development of the zygomatic arches, these latter are not so prominent as in the adult, and, therefore, the bony framework of the face, seen from the front, has a nearly triangidar form, coming to a point below. In the face itself, the nasal bones are very small and short, and are as yet but little relieved from the superior maxillary bones ; whilst these also are small, owing to the un- developed condition of the great maxillary sinuses or antra. The orbital margins, especially the upper portions, are less prominent; and, the orbital cavities, though large, in proportion to'the head and face, are shallow, in relation to the size of the eyeballs, so that these, as well as the eyelids, are re- markably prominent. The alveolar arches of both jaws, are short from before backwards, and not yet fully developed; both the alveolar borders, at first bare of teeth, are comparatively slender and shallow, meet together, and thus reduce the vertical measurement of the face; even when the milk teeth have appeared, twenty in number, ten in each jaw, and comparatively small, the lower portion of the face is still but little developed. The mental eminence, moreover, is not yet well pronounced; the under part of the body of the lower jaw is very shallow, and on but a slightly lower level than the plane of the foramen magnum; the alveolar portion is larger than the part