THE MUSCLES OF THE TKUNK. 337 Fig. 158.—The Scapular Group. two great serrati are very powerful muscles, and serve to sling the anterior part of the trunk between the nearly upright scapulae. Lastly, when the human scapulae are fixed from above, the great serrati elevate and expand the ribs, and so help to dilate the chest, acting, in laboured breathing, as most influential auxiliary muscles of inspiration. The Scapular Group, figs. 158, 167.—This consists of five muscles, which pass from the scapula to the humerus, and act, generally, as rotators of that bone; they are the subscapular, the supra- and infra-spinati, and the two teres muscles. Subscapularis, figs. 161, 168, 169, Deep ; triangular, intersected by tendinous laminae, proceeding from ridges on the bone; placed beneath the scapula, occupying its sub-scapular fossa, and converging to the front of the shoulder joint, a bursa intervening. Anterior surface of the scapula, excepting near the angles where the serratus is fixed, and also excepting a space near the back of the-bone lesser tuberosity of the humerus, by a flat tendon connected with the capsule of the shoulder joint, and, by a few fleshy fasciculi, below the tendon. It draws the raised arm down- wards and inwards to the side, and, rotates the humerus inwards, when that bone is dependent by the body. Supra-spinatus, fig. 158, Deep, but covered only by the trapezius; thick, triangular; occupying the supra-spinous fossa, proceeding horizontally along it, and converging beneath the acromion process and the coraco-acromial ligament. Supra-spinous fossa of the scapula, excepting near the neck of the bone, and the strong fascia which covers the muscle uppermost of the three impressions on the greater tuberosity of the humerus, by a narrow tendon which adheres to the capsule of the joint. It elevates the humerus, and aids other muscles in rotating it either way. Infraspinatus, figs. 158, 167, Deep, and covered over its upper and outer third by the deltoid, at its upper and inner corner by the tra- pezius, and at its lower angle, slightly, by the latissimus dorsi, but, else- where, superficial in a remarkable triangular space left between those muscles, fig. 167; triangular, thick, much larger than the supra-spinatus; occupying the greater part of the infra-spinous fossa, its fasciculi converging obliquely upwards and outwards to the back of the shoulder joint. Inner two thirds of the infra-spinous fossa, and the strong fascia which covers the