117 THE SHOULDEE-GIRDLE. to support it. The glenoid cavity is completely lined with cartilage, whereas, as previously described, the acetabulum is only partly so covered. Surface-forms dependent on the Clavicle and Scapula. The extreme moveability of the bones of the shoulder-girdle, beneath the integuments, makes it difficult to recognise the varying effects, which they produce upon the surface-forms. The clavicle forms a natural boundary line, between the trunk and the neck, in front; but it is sinuous, and changeable in its position. Sometimes, as when the arms are dependent, it is transverse and nearly horizontal, though more frequently it is slightly inclined upwards at its outer end, which is always thrown backwards ; at other times, with movement of the shoulder forwards, backwards, or upwards, the direction of the line of the clavicle changes accordingly. The inner enlarged end, forms, outside the sterno-clavicular articulation, a pro- minence, seen more plainly in thin persons, running obliquely downwards and outwards, just above the angle of the manubrium of the sternum ; it also over- hangs the fiircula of the sternum, which is converted by it, and by the long- narrow tendon of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, into a deep V-shaped depression. The flat outer end of the clavicle, lies within the prominence of the acromion process, on a plane very little higher, but sometimes distinctly elevated above it, just behind the line of the joint between them. The most prominent part of the shaft of the collar bone, is opposite the middle of the anterior convexity of its sternal portion ; it produces a charac- teristic form in this situation. It is over this part, that a collar, suspended round the neck, hangs down. The subcutaneous portion oi the shaft of this bone, here, and along its whole length, by no means corresponds in form, with the upper surface of the dried bone; for this latter is so infringed upon by the sterno-mastoid and pectoral muscles, above and below, that only a much narrower, actually subcutaneous, part produces a special form beneath the skin ; this, however, owing to the genUe curvatures and perfectly smooth modelling of this portion of the bone, composes harmoniously with the sweeping lines and surfaces of the soft parts, in which the bone is embedded. A marked and interesting contrast is noticeable, as elsewhere, in the sharpness of line and roughness of form, of the deeper concealed surfaces of the clavicle, to which ligaments and muscles are attached. As already mentioned, the effect of manual labour is to increase the curvature, and to enlarge the shaft and extremities of the collar-bone ; and, in this way, a want of symmetry between the two sides, may result from the more frequent use of the right limb. It is scarcely necessary to add that, in determining the typical characters of this part of the human frame, the artist must not only restore the condition of