147 THE BONES OF THE HAND. a little tubercle, for the insertion of the median slip of the corresponding common extensor tendon. Their distal ends display small trochlear and condyloid surfaces, like those on the distal ends of the first phalanges, but on a smaller scale, with the gi'oove and prominences less pronounced, and not prolonged so far on the palmar aspect. The sides of the lower ends of the phalanges are not so markedly bevelled, nor are the lateral prominences for the ligaments so large. On the inner borders of the lateral ridges on the palmar aspect of the shafts of the second phalanges, intended for the attach- ment of the sheaths of the flexor tendons, are two rough longitudinal lines, for the insertion of the slips of the bifurcated tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle. The last, or ungual phalanges, the third in the fingers, but the second, numerically, in the thumb, which, however, has no proper second phalanx, are, again, shorter and more slender than the second, and have very tapering shafts. Their upper ends articulate, by means of a surface having two very shallow depressions and an intervening ridge, with the condyloid and troch- lear surfaces on the lower ends of the bones of the previous row, forming hinge- joints, with, however, much less range of motion in the palmar direction. The introduction of hinge-joints, at the two interphalangeal articulations, renders the action of the entire finger very determinate, whilst the ball-and-socket joints at the bases of the first phalanges, permit of a great range of motion at the tip of each. Near the distal end, the dorsal surface of the last phalanges becomes elevated and convex, for the support of the matrix of the nail; and quite at their extremities, on their somewhat flattened palmar aspect, they each present a semi-lunar or horse-shoe-shaped rough eminence, fig. 58, reaching backwards, in the form of two little horns, for the support of the fibrous and other structures, which form the pulp of the finger. On the dorsal aspect of the upper end of these phalanges, is a small tubercle, for the insertion of the final slip of the extensor tendon; and on their palmar aspect, a transverse roughened surface, for the insertion of the deep flexor tendon. The ungual phalanx of the thumb, is both the longest and broadest of the series; it resembles the others in its form and uses, but it has the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis inserted into its dorsal surface, and that of the flexor longus pollicis into its broad, palmar surface. In the fore-finger and little finger, tendinous slips from their proper exten- sor muscles, are attached, with the common extensor tendons, to the second and third phalanges. The first phalanx of the middle finger is the longest, next that of the fore-finger, then that of the ring-finger, and, lastly, that of the little finger. In the case of the second and last phalanges, the order of diminution is so far charged, that these tones aie rather longer in the ring-finger than in the index-finger; but the middle and little fingers still show the longest and L 2