11. IxXTRODUCTION. observer should not be offended by an absence of the living and the substitu- tion of the dead form, by the appearance of action, where there should be repose, or of spasm, where there should be action. There must be no substi- tution, by the aid of mechanical methods and rules, of conventional lines and masses, for a perfect harmony of form and action, in every part, with the conception of the artist, which must itself be subordinated to, and compatible with, the true purposes of art. A defective acquaintance with anatomical facts, or still worse, with their relation to the outward surface, is even more dangerous than an absolute ignorance of anatomy; for, in the former case, errors are sure to be committed, whilst in the latter, the artist must rely entirely on what he sees in his model,—no unsafe guide. But a sound knowledge of art-anatomy properly employed, is a most useful aid in practice ; it confers keener powers of observation ; it necessitates a closer analysis of, and leads to a clearer insight into the nature of the forms, which the artist must study and represent. The human form is undoubtedly the most difficult of all to understand, to follow in its complex changes, and to represent either in the solid, or upon a flat surface. The artist who masters it with his eye and mind, and thoroughly subjects it to his hand, need fear no other task of representative work which can be set before him. Hence it is the highest aim, the acme of all artistic training, so far as practical drawing and modelling are concerned, to draw and model the human figure correctly. Anatomy alone cannot teach anyone to do this; but it will serve after the manner of a rule and plumb-line, a square and quadrant, to save one from committing egregious error; it will elucidate many a doubt concerning a passing or phenomenal form, now recognisable and now lost to sight. It will not only enable an artist to discern these, but to distinguish from them other more permanent or less modifiable forms: it will explain their differ- ences and meanings, and assign to each its right interpretation, in every action of the living frame. Anatomy further throws light on the various changes or peculiarities of form, dependent on sex, age, individual attributes, character, and race. It constitutes the only safe test by which to estimate correctly the strivings of ancient art, the triumphs or failures of the antique, in its attempts to create for all time, distinctive types of the human or the deified human form, such, for example, as a Cupid, an athlete, a Hercules or a Faun, an Apollo or a Jupiter, a Diana or a Venus. With the aid of anatomy alone, can tlie artist safely advance from the individual to the ideal, and attain to special or general conceptions of form. It is the only means by which he can determine the true relations of the human to the animal type, and realise to himself what is more human and what is more animal, in any individual example of humanity. Finally, as a mere element of education, an adequate acquaintance with anatomical science, both human and comparative, will contrilute to the