77 THE PELVIS. this, it approaches the iliac fossa, and gives origiu to a few fibres of the iliacus muscle. A broad, oval or kidney-shaped surface on the middle of the base of the sacrum, is adapted, by means of an intervertebral cartilage, to a corresponding surface on the under side of the body of the lowest lumbar vertebra. Behind this articular surface, is the large triangular opening- leading into the sacral portion of the vertebral canal. On each side of the borders of this opening, project upwards the articular processes, right and left, of the first sacral vertebra; these are wide apart, their surfaces are smooth, concave from side to side, and directed inwards and backwards, so as to meet the two inferior articular processes of the lowest lumbar vertebra; outside these, separated by a deep notch, are the massive transverse processes. At the back of the sacrum, and nearly corresponding with the level of the promontory in front, a decided re-entering angle, which might be called the posterior sacro- vertebral angle, fig. 26, is formed between it and the lum^^ar portion of the spine. The broad surface below this, may be called the sacral plane; it slopes backwards and downwards, as low as the fourth sacral spine, or sacral tuberosity, which is the most prominent part of the sacrum behind. From this point, the bone curves often suddenly forwards, and articulates with the coccyx by a transversely oval surface. The Coccyx.—This bone, figs. 24 to 27, requires but brief notice. It is the rudimentary cavidal portion of the vertebral column. More or less developed, as regards length and the number of its vertebral elements, it constitutes the tail in different animals. The human coccyx, convex behind and below, slightly concave in front and above, usually contains four rudimentary vertebree, closely articulated with each other. The first has a wide and flattened body, presenting on its upper surface an oval facet, which, by means of an intervening fibro-cartilage, is connected with the lower end or apex of the sacrum ; behind, it has two blunt articular processes, named the cornua, which join the cornua of the sacrum ; it also has two small transverse processes. The remaining three elements of the coccyx, represent the bodies of vertebrae only; they become smaller, and rounder, the last being only a small roundish nodule. After middle life, the coccygeal vertebrae have a tendency to become consolidated into one bone, which is sometimes, in old age, even anchylosed to the sacrum. The coccyx bends forwards, so that its anterior concave surface prolongs the curve of the sacrum beneath the pelvic cavity, where it serves to support the viscera. It gives origin to neighbouring muscles, including a part of the gluteus maximus, from its posterior convex surface. The Pelvis. The pelvis or basin, figs. 24 to 27, composed, as we have seen, of the two hip-bones, the sacrum and the coccyX;, is divided into the upper or/tt^se pelvis, LEEDS 5cWEST