THE SHOULDER-GIRDLE. 119 upper limb hanging down by the side of the trunk. In thin persons, the forms of the bone are disagreeably prominent; sometimes it projects out at its base, so as to resemble a sort of wing. In the well-formed figure, the convex dorsum of the scapula, with its spinous process, assists in producing the general elevation of the corresponding region of the back, level with, and below, the shoulders. As to its individual parts, the subscapular fossa is turned towards the thorax ; the neck, and the supra- and infra- spinous fossae, are completely covered, and concealed, by the proper scapular muscles; the upper border is also hidden, along its whole length, by the trapezius muscle ; so also is the short upper part of the posterior border, as low down as the triangular smooth surface opposite the commencement of the spinous process. This irianc/ular surface, as already mentioned, is crossed by a slip from the tendon of the trapezius muscle; but, as that is very thin, though strong, the position and even the shape of the surface in question, are revealed through the skin, usually by a slight and small three-sided depression on the surface, having its base turned towards the vertebral column, and its apex upwards and ovitwards, in the direction of the spinous process of the scapula, towards the apex of the shoulder. Below this point, the base of the scapula may often be traced, a little to the inner side of a long, narrow furrow, the vertical scapular furroiv, formed between the adjacent muscles, and running obliquely downwards and outwards, diverging from the vertebral column, until it reaches the lower angle of the bone. This inferior angle is usually recognised as a blunted point turned downwards, lifted up from the more convex thoracic walls, on which it rests, and constituting the lower end of a broad triangular surface, corresponding with the greater portion of the infra-spinous fossa and its muscles. From this angle, the axillary border of the scapula, extending upwards and hidden by a thick mass of muscle, nevertheless determines the direction and position of the great fold, which forms the posterior boundary of the armpit, as high up as the hinder border of the deltoid muscle, above which it is completely lost. The only parts of the scapula, which are truly subcutaneous, are the long and prominent spinous process, and the broader acromion process, which is continuous with it. In the normal position of the scapula, with its muscles quiescent, as when the arm depends by the side of the trunk, the spinous process gives rise to a gently convex, oblique, elevated ridge, extending from the triangular surface at its inner end or commencement, and reaching up towards the point of the shoulder, where it becomes flattened, and even depressed. On the slightest action of the muscles above and below it, or even in muscular individuals, when the muscles are at rest, this oblique ridge is replaced by a much narrower waved furrow between them, which may be named the oblique scapular furrow ; for here, as with the crest of the ilium and the front of the sternum, what is a pro- minent ridge in the skeleton, becomes concealed at the bottom of a soft inter-