221 THE JOINTS OF THE LOWER LIMB. rotation of the leg upon the thigh, in different degrees of flexion of the joint, and the direction of the ligament varies accordingly. In standing completely at ease, with all the muscles of the thigh at rest, the patella is usually allowed to fall loosely in front of tlie joint, but it may also be then drawn up by the voluntary action of the extensor muscles attached to it; in the former case, the fatty cushions on either side of and behind the ligamentum patellae, are not compressed, but retire behind that ligament; when, however, the patella is drawn up, they are pushed out on each side of it. It will be understood, that every movement of the tibia upon the femur may be reciprocated by an opposite movement of the femur on the tibia ; for example, if during the sitting posture with the leg vertical, the limb be simply straightened at the'knee-joint, the head of the tibia moves forwards beneath the condyles of the femur ; but, if, from the same position, the erect attitude is assumed, the condyles of the femur move backwards on the head of the tibia, the cartilages, in the one case, following, and, in the other, remaining with the tibia, and doubtless serving as guides to the necessary sliding movements. The Hip Joint.—The articular cartilage, which covers the ball, and that which lines the socket, of the hip-joint, fig. 90, are thickest at the upper part of each. The socket itself is surrounded by a peculiar structure, attached firmly to its rim, named the cotyloid ligament., figs. 88, 90. This is shaped like a ring, having a prismoidal section ; its broader side, fibro-carti- laginous, is fixed to the bony rim and also to the cartilaginous lining of the acetabulum ; whilst its thinner side, or edge, containing yellow elastic fibres, is free and contracted, so as to overhang the cavity of the ace- tabidum ; it thus not only deepens the socket, but narrows the outlet; it also embraces the head of the femur, in contact with which it is maintained by the capsule and accessory ligaments ; it is much thicker above and behind the joint, than elsewliere. Some superficial fibres of this cotyloid ligament, strengthened by proper fibres, constitute the transverse ligament, which passes across the notch of the acetabulum, thus completing the rim, and giving a uniform edge to the socket, at the same time permitting vessels and nerves to enter the joint. The head of the femur is connected directly with the bottom of the socket, by the ligamentum teres, or round ligament, fig, 88, which is unique, in the fact that it passes across the interior of the joint. It is not cord-like in shape, however, but triangular ; its narrower end is fixed to the double pit on the inner aspect of the head of the femur ; becoming- flattened, it passes down, along a slight depression on the inner side of the head of the bone, fig. 90, and is attached by its base, which is divided into two parts, to the ischial and pubic margins of the notch of the aceta- bulum, blending with the ends of the transverse ligament. It is com- pletely invested by a tubular prolongation of the synovial membrane, It is usually strong, but it differs much in thickness, in different individuals.