THE BONES OF THE HAND. 139 the OS magnum ; lastly, the scaphoid articulates with three bones of the second row, namely, the os magnum, trapezoid, and trapezium, just as the scaphoid, in the tarsus, is connected with the three cuneiform bones. The unciform bone, figs. 58, 59, the innermost bone of the second carpal row, is placed on the inner side of the os magnum, and below the cuneiform bone ; it completes the inner border of the wrist, supports the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, and thus corresponds with the cuboid bone of the tarsus, which occupies a similar position, and supports the same metatarsal bones. It has an inclined pyramidal form, its base being turned downwards, towards the metacarpus, its apex upwards, towards the semi-lunar bone, the central bone of the first row. In front, it presents the remarkable hook-like or unciform -process, fig. 58, from which the bone receives its name. The apex of the bone presents a narrow facet, which articulates with a part of the concave under side of the semi-lunar bone; its radial side chiefly articulates, by a slightly convex surface, with the os magnum, but is elsewhere rough for ligaments; its longer, oblique, ulnar side has a large undulating, tri- angular facet above, for articulation with the concavo-convex under surface of the cuneiform bone, below which it is roughened for the internal lateral ligament; its base presents two contiguous and continuous smooth facets, separated by a ridge and placed at an obtuse angle with each other, one, internal and larger, concave from before backwards, but convex from side to side, forming a somewhat saddle-shaped surface, for the base of the fifth meta- carpal bone ; the other smaller, and slightly concave, for the base of the fourth metacarpal bone. The triangular back of the unciform bone, and its ulnar edge, free between the cuneiform and the fifth metacarpal bones, are rough for ligaments ; the anterior surface, also triangular and rough, is dis^ tinguished by its unciform process, which projects from the lower and inner part of the bone, is flattened on each side, and bends over, at its point, towards the middle of the wrist. By its apex, this process gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist; the ulnar surface and the tip of the process give origin to the flexor brevis, and the opponens muscles of the little finger; its radial surface is deeply grooved for the tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum muscles, which glide past it. The OS magnum, figs. 58, 59, the largest of the second row, and of all the carpal bones, is situated in the centre of the carpus ; it represents, wholly or in part, the external cuneiform tarsal bone. It is proportionally long, and is described as having a head, neck, and body. The head is the expanded upper end of the bone, rounded and convex, especially from before backwards, somewhat flattened on its radial, but slightly concave on its ulnar side ; it is received into the deep socket formed for it, above, by the concavity of the semi-lunar bone, on the radial side, by the lower part of the concave inner surface of the scaphoid, and on the ulnar side, by the somewhat convex