397 THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. part of the muscle reaches the lower jaw, becoming chiefly attached to its subcutaneous periosteum, from the symphysis backwards ; the outer or hinder bundles pass forwards over the lower part of the side of the face, fig. 186, ^, and blend with the muscles at the corner of the mouth. A few of the very highest fibres were described by Santorini, as the riaorius or laughing muscle, The fasciculi of the platysma are more intimately connected with the skin in the lower part of the muscle, than in its upper part. The entire muscle forms a general additional covering to parts of the pectoralis major, deltoid, trapezius, scaleni, omo-hyoid, sterno-mastoid, stemo-hyoid, digastric and mylo-hyoid muscles; but it is so thin, that it softens, yet does not hide their forms. In its action, which sometimes occurs suddenly, as a sort of ' nervous' twitching, it throws the skin into oblique, linear ridges, parallel with its fasciculi. The anterior and middle portions of the platysma may aid in depressing the jaw ; the hinder or facial portion draws the lower lip and the angle of the mouth downwards and backwards, and so assists in the expression of fear and grief. The male and female neck and throat, figs. 190, 191. It has been previously shown, p. 194, that the relative length of the neck, in the two sexes, depends more on the degTee of obliquity of the ribs, and the consequent position of the sternum, than on a difference of length in the cervical region of the spine. This fact is well shown in the accompanying illustrations, drawn care- fully from nature, figs. 190, 191, in which it will be seen that the top of the sternum, in the male, is on a level with the lower part of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, whereas, in the female, it is on a level with the lower part of the body of the third. The greater obliquity of the concealed portion of the occipital bone, in the female, also adds to the length of the hinder part of the neck in that sex. The greater thickness of the component bones of the neck in the male, increases its apparent shortness; but the muscles behind the neck, having to support a heavier weight, are also actually, and relatively thicker in the male; and, in front of the spine, the hyoid bone and its appendages, the larynx, the trachea, and all the muscles both depressors and elevators, are of much larger dimensions, especially from before backwards, and from side to side. Owing to the differences in the length and obliquity of the lower jaw, the re-entering angle of the neck, in front, is nearly a right angle in the male, but is somewhat more acute in the female. Besides this, the profile line of the throat lower down, and its lateral surface- forms are especially modified in the two sexes. The ' Pomum Adami' is much less prominent, and also relatively somewhat higher up in the female, but lower down, and more projecting in the male. Below the larynx, the thyroid body, T, which is covered by the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, nevertheless, chiefly determines the general surface-forms of the throat. In the shorter and thicker neck of the male, this body, the function of which is