THE MUSCLES. 356 Finally, it must be remarked, that the undulating surfaces and sweeping lines, traceable on the anterior aspect of the human torso, have their characters intensified by the presence of the three fixed points, dependent on the umbilicus, and the right and left mammillse; for, as will at once be granted, if these be omitted from a model, or a drawing of this part of the body, the life and spirit of the form are even more completely extinguished, than the full meaning of that of a shield is destroyed, when it is destitute of a central boss. The subcutaneous veins of the upper part of the chest, marble, by their bluish traces, the surface of that region of the trunk, more especially on the female bust; but on the abdomen generally, and, in particular, on the back, these vessels are concealed by fat or are too small to be defined. The effects of inspiration and expiration, and of holding the breath on the forms of the thorax and abdomen, must be strictly regarded. The widening of the costal curves at the sides, and the lifting upwards and forwards of the sternal furrow and pectoral planes, are very obvious, externally ; but the elongation of the chest, being chiefly diaphragmatic, is less noticeable. In unimpeded inspiration, the lower border of the thorax also expands, and the abdomen becomes somewhat more prominent. This latter change is more marked in the male; whilst, in the female, the thorax is more concerned in the inspiratory expansion. In holding the breath, preparatory to making efforts, the thorax is generally, but not necessarily, fully expanded, and the abdomen prominent. In very laboured and emotional breathing, the auxiliary inspiratory muscles, at least, are at play, and the shoulders rise and fall, or are even fixed by holding on to external objects, so as to enable such muscles as the scaleni, the levator anguli scapulae, the rhomboids and the great serratus, to co-operate in lifting the ribs in inspiration. In the severest forms of laboured breathing, every muscle in the body is directly or indirectly con- cerned. Table of the Muscles of the Upper Limb. TRUNK AND UPPER LIMB. Levator anguli scapulae, 4L Rhomboideus minor, 42. „ major, 4.S. Serratus magnus, 44. Subscapularis, 45. Supra-spinatus, 46. Infra-spinatus, 47. Teres minor, 48. „ major, 49. Latissimus dorsi, 50. Trapezius, 51. Deltoid, 52. Subclavius, 53. Pectoralis minor, 54. „ major, 55. THE ARM. Coraco-brachialis, 56. Brachialis antieus, 57. Biceps, 58. Triceps, 59. Sub-anconeus. Anconeus, 60. THE FORE-ARM. Pronator quadratus, 61. „ teres, 62. Flexor carpi radialis, 63. Palmaris longus, 64. Flexor carpi ulnaris, 65. „ digitorum sublimis, 66. „ digitorum profundus, 67.