THE BONES. 42 with which it articulates by two complex facets, fig. 11, a. One, posterior and larger, is oblong, and deeply concave from before backwards; the other, anterior, internal and narrower, is elongated, slightly convex from behind forwards and outwards, and sometimes subdivided into two parts; between them is a deep groove, running obliquely outwards and forwards. By these two surfaces, the under side of the astragalus comes into contact pos- teriorly with the body of the os calcis, and anteriorly and internally with the sustentaculum tali. The outer or anterior end of the intervening groove widens out, as it passes to the outer side of the tarsus. This groove, together with the corresponding one on the os calcis, forming the so-called sinus of the foot, contains the strong interosseous ligament which ties the two bones securely together. The posterior border of the astragalus, which projects slightly behind the tibia, is narrow, shallow, and grooved obliquely downwards and inwards, for the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe. The upper surface of the bone presents a broad, quadrangular, slightly grooved articular surface, which is nearly horizontal, but has its outer edge sharper, longer, and a little more elevated than the inner one; it is considerably wider in front than behind, a form which is due to its outer edge being directed obliquely forwards and outwards, and not straight forwards, like the inner one. This articular surface is very convex from before backwards, but slightly concave or depressed from side to side, so as to form a shallow trochlear surface, the outer edge of which, as just stated, stands up a little higher than the inner one. This surface is the highest part of the tarsus, and therefore of the foot, and upon it the broad lower end of the tibia is supported. Its forms are of the utmost interest in reference to the movements of the ankle-joint. On the inner side of the bone, and continuous with its upper surface, is a small, oblong, articular facet, which, directed a little upwards and backwards, articulates with a smooth surface on the internal malleolus of the tibia; below this, is a roughened part for the attach- ment of the strong, internal, lateral ligament of the ankle. On the outer side of the astragalus, is a much larger articular facet, also continuous above with the upper or trochlear surface of the bone ; this facet, triangular in outline, with its apex turned downwards, and concave from above downwards, is directed a little upwards and backwards, and articulates with a corre- sponding surface on the external malleolus of the fibula. This external facet of the astragalus reaches further back than the internal one, in correspondence with the more backward position of the external malleolus. The anterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle is attached to the bone in front of this facet. In front and towards the inner side, figs. 8, 9, the astragalus is prolonged forwards and slightly outwards, and is somewhat narrowed, so as to form the neck. Immediately in advance of the trochlear surface of the bone, there is a