THE MUSCLES. 298 border is obliquely notched, owing to the mode in which the rectus terminates upon it, the outer fork of the tendon reaching higher than the inner one; below the patella, it constitutes the ligamentum patellcB, figs. 139, 140, 142, 144, Ip, which descends over the upper half of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, a bursa intervening, and is inserted obliquely into the lower half of that process, and into the ridge a little beyond it, reaching lower down on the outer side. The common tendon gives off lateral fibrous expansions, the inner one being the stronger, which pass over the sides of the knee joint, and, with the fascia, become attached below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. The vastus internus and crureus, the vastus externus, and the rectus, acting in free motion, are extensors of the leg upon the thigh, as, for example, in throwing forward the leg, and straightening the lower limb, in walking or kicking. In assuming the standing posture, the triceps, acting from the tibia below, raises and supports the femur upon the head of the tibia. The vasti and crureus are attached to the femur only; but the rectus, being fixed to the pelvis, either flexes the thigh, or draws the pelvis forwards; it also aids in maintaining the erect position, by helping to poise the pelvic girdle upon the thigh bone, and preventing it from falling backwards. The subcrureus muscle during extension of the knee, pulls up the capsule of the joint out of the way of the patella. The Adductor Group, figs. 139, 141, 144. This group, situated on the inner side of the thigh, includes from below upwards the adductor magnus, adductor longus, adductor brevis, and pectineus; with these, but situated in the pelvis, may be associated the psoas magnus, the iliacus, and, where it exists, the psoas parvus. Adductor magnus, &gs. 141, 144, Almost entirely concealed; large, flat, thick and triangular, having its obtuse angle at the pelvis, its short side upwards, its long side turned to the inner aspect of the limb, and its base along the femur; radiating, its upper and shortest fasciculi passing horizontally outwards, its middle ones more and more obliquely downwards and outwards, the lowest and longest, nearly vertically downwards. Pubic arch, from near the symphysis to the under surface and outer border of the tuberosity of the ischium, lower part of the linea quadrati, oblique line leading from the greater trochanter to the linea aspera, whole length of the linea aspera itself, and the tuberosity on the inner condyle of the femur. The chief part of the muscle is inserted by a broad, thin, but strong aponeurosis perforated for blood-vessels, and connected below with the lower part of the origin of the vastus internus; but the lower part of the tendon, forms a well-marked rounded edge or cord, fixed to the tuberosity above the inner condyle. This muscle is the most powerful adductor of the thigh, drawing it inwards, even across the opposite limb; it also assists in. rotating the thigh outwards. In