THE MUSCLES. 260 to accumulate a vast number of short muscular fasciculi in a given space, and enables these, proceeding from a broad base, to be gathered finally on one moderate-sized, though strong, tendon. This is accomplished by means of one series of tapering tendons passing down into the muscle from its extensive line of origin; by another set of tendons coming from the strong and folded tendon of insertion, also tapering, and reaching up between the first set; and lastly, by an immense number of short fasciculi, passing obliquely from the sides of one set of tendons to the sides of the other. The provision for securing great strength is here complete, for the fasciculi, though short, are extremely nvimerous, and the force of the deltoid is not to be measured by a cross section through the widest part of the muscle, but by a series of vertical sections made through its numerous planes of oblique fasciculi, figs. 163-5. A fusiform muscle, with a fleshy origin, like the tibialis anticus, T', generally ends by its fasciculi fastening tliemselves obliquely to one edge of a long- tendon, which therefore appears as if gradually emerging from one side of the muscle, like the quill of a feather stripped of its barbs on one side ; hence the muscle is said to be semi-penniform; in such a case, the tendon is usually superficial, and frequently flattened, presenting one edge towards the skin, the muscular part reaching its under edge from the bone. A muscle may have a tapering tendon at both ends, with intermediate oblique fleshy fasciculi, as in the instance of the semi-membranosus, S"; the force of such muscles is obviously greater than if their fasciculi were arranged longitudinally, for the cross section at right angles to the fasciculi, would then be much less than it is, in the muscle as actually constructed. An instance of a completely penniform muscle, sometimes named bi-penniform, that is, one in which the fasciculi are attached to both sides, as well as to the imder surface, of a central tendon, like the barbs of a perfect quill, is seen in the rectus muscle of the thigh E", a very fine fusiform muscle, the fasciculi of which end on a strong tendon below, as usual, along an obliquely curved border ; on passing over the end of the femur, this tendon includes the patella, a large sesamoid bone, in its substance. Two very simple muscles have a rhomhoidal shape, the so-called rhomboid muscles, lesser and greater, of the scapula, R'; they are deep- seated and consist merely of parallel fasciculi, and narrow flat tendons. Extreme simplicity of form, with its frequent concomitant repetition, is seen in the multifidus muscle of the spine M, which is composed of numerous little short slips of mixed fleshy and tendinous bundles. In very marked contrast with this, is the complicated form and structure of the gastrocnemius, or bellied muscle of the calf of the leg, G. This consists, first, of two tendinous heads giving off fleshy fasciculi, which pass down obliquely towards each other and end on a deep-seated median tendon; and, secondly, of two foliated tendons spreading out superficially on the back of the muscle, and giving origin, by their deep surfaces and rounded edges, to fasciculi, which pass downwards and