141 THE BONES OF THE HAND. concave from side to side. The posterior surface of the bone, narrow and convex, is roughened for ligamentous attachments; its outer surface, likewise non-articular, presents a tubercle for the attachment of some of the fibres of the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint; its anterior surface is dis- tinguished by an oblique ridge, running downwards and. inwards, to the inner border of which, the anterior annular ligament of the carpus is attached, and from which the abductor, the outer head of the short flexor, and the opponens muscles of the tliumb arise; on the inner side of this ridge, is a deep groove, along which the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle passes. The entire carpus, figs. 58, 59, is oblong in shape, its long diameter being transverse. Its upper compound articular border, oblong, narrow, and smoothly convex, articulates with the radius, and with the inter-articular fibro-cartilage beneath the ulna, forming a limited ball and socket-joint; its lotver border, also articular, is wider, less convex, but uneven or notched, and supports, by gliding joints, the three middle metacarpal bones, and, by saddle shaped-joints, the metacarpal bones of the little finger and thumb. Its non-ai ticular inner border, projecting even beyond the ulna, is deeper from above downwards, and moi'e prominent than the outer border, which is also non-articular, but shorter and more recessed beneath the styloid process of the radius. Its dorsal surface is nearly even and convex, all of the bones which enter into it, except the semi-lunar, being wider behind, than in front, or more or less wedge-shaped from behind forwards ; the palmar surface, on the other hand, is concave, and hence the lower border of the carpus forms a portion of an arch, from side to side. The trapezium, in particular, advances forwards on the radial side ; but the carpus appears still further hollowed on its palmar aspect, on account of the presence of four bony processes, two at each side of the wrist, namely, the pisiform bone and the unciform process, near the ulnar border, and the tuber- osity of the scaphoid and the oblique ridge of the trapezium, near the radial border. It is between these, that the strong anterior annular ligament crosses, so as to form a completely enclosed channel, for the passage of the tendons of the long flexor muscles of the fingers and thumb; the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis passes through the ligament itself. The two rows of carpal bones, form each, a transverse compound segment of the entire carpus. The complicated articulation between them, the trans- verse articulation oftheivrist, is composed, above, of a concavo-convex surface, consisting, on its ulnar side, of the deep concavity formed by the cuneiform and semi-lunar bones, and, on the radial side, of the shallow convexity formed by the scaphoid bone ; whilst, below, it is composed of a convexo-concave surface, consisting, on the ulnar side, of the prominent convexity formed by the unciform bone and os magnum, and, on the radial side, of a shallow con- cavity formed by the trapezoid bone and the trapezium. This joint is a gliding joint, having some of the characters of a hinge-joint. LtEUS S-