18 THE BONES. the neck), are two long, doubly curved bones, which extend from the upper part of the sternum, one on each side, towards the corresponding shoulder- bone, being attached by a moveable joint at either end. The scapulae ( scapula, the shoulder-blade, or spade-bone, because, in certain animals, as in the ox and horse, the scapula resembles the flattened end of a spade, and has probably been used for purposes of digging) are two broad bones, which are suspended to the outer ends of the collar-bones, and are supported on the back amd sides of the thorax. The two clavicles and the two scapulae together, constitute a sort of arch or girdle known as the scapula^' arch, shoulder- girdle, or pectoral gwdle, which supports the upper limbs. The only point of direct articulation of this girdle with the rest of the skeleton, is at the attachment of the inner ends of the two small clavicles, to the upper part of the sternum. The lower set of girdle-bones consists of the two large broad bones, named the hip-bones, haunch hones, or innominate hones, I, right and left, (from in, the negative prefix, and nomen, a name, because the old anatomists failed to give a name to these bones, founded on a general likeness to any known object). Each innominate bone consists of an expanded upper part named the ilium (ilia, the flanks), i ; of the ischium, the Sitz-bein or sitting-bone of the Grermans, (la')(Eiv, ischein, to hold, as it is the bone on which the weight of the body is supported in the sitting posture), s ; and of the pubes or puhic bone (os pubis), p. These three parts of the bone, though for a long time separate, are eventually united into one piece by consolidation with an intermediate Y-shaped bone, at or about the period of puberty. The right and left innominate bones are joined very firmly together in front, by the meeting of the two pubic bones at a special articulation ; whilst, behind, each is articulated by a broad surface, also very firmly, to the corresponding side of the sacrum. The two hip-bones form a very strong bony arch or girdle, named the hip-girdle, pelvic arch, or pelvic girdle, which rests on, and gives attachment to, the lower limbs; this is much stronger than the shoulder girdle, which supports the smaller upper limbs; moreover, instead of being open behind, it is completed in that direction by its junction with the vertebral column, that is, with the sacrum, so as to form a complete and massive bony ring, which is the base of support of the whole trunk, trans- mitting its weight to the lower limbs, and constituting the so-called pelvis (pelvis, a shallow basin). Hence, the hip-girdle is both larger and more fixed than the scapular girdle. The cavity inside the pelvis, or pelvic cavity, is continuous with that of the abdomen, and contains the lower portions of the digestive and excretory apparatus, with parts of the reproductive system. The Limbs.—The ttvo pairs of lateral appendages called the limbs, viz. the upper or anterior, and the lower or posterior limbs, consist of a series of bony segments, which bear a general resemblance to each other in the two limbs.