274 THE MUSCLES. The Tables prefixed to each principal region, contain a list of the muscles of that region, desigaated by their Latin names, and arranged in due order from the deeper to the superficial sets. The numerals appended to each muscle, indicate the reference number of that muscle, in every illustration in which it appears. The tendons of insertion are marked, in the drawings, with cor- responding numerals, accented. The chief anatomical points of interest, in regard to any given muscle, are itsjsosi^ioM, whether (ieep or superficial; its shape; its direction; its origin, and its insertion. In the ensuing descriptions, the first three points are given, in the above-named order, in the first sentence after the name. In a second sentence, the origin and insertion are stated, the two being sepa- rated merely by a dash . In certain instances, where this formal method cannot be adopted, a more lengthened description is given, or special details are superadded. Lastly, the action of the muscle is described, except where this is plainly indicated by the name. The relations of the muscles to surround- ing parts, always mentioned in anatomical works, are omitted, but may be safely studied in the illustrations, to which also, as already recommended, the student should refer, whilst learning the places of attachment of the Muscles, given in the description of the Bones. The deep-seated muscles are briefly noticed ; but special attention is paid to all the peculiarities of the superficial muscles, which directly influence the surface-forms. This renders it nnneces- sary to do more, at the end of the description of the muscles of each principal region, than shortly to review the surface-forms dependent on the muscles and tendons of each part. To this is added some notice of the in- fluence on the forms of the fasciae, skin, and veins. Table of the Muscles of the Lowee Llmb. THE FOOT. Interossei, dorsales pedis (four), 1. „ plantares pedis (tliree), 2. Abductor minimi digiti pedis, la. „ pollicis pedis, \b. Adductor pollicis pedis, 2h. Transversus pedis, 3. Flexor brevis minimi digiti pedis, 4. „ ,, pollicis pedis, 5. ,, Accessorius, 7a. Lumbricales pedis (four), lb. Flexor brevis digitorum pedis, C. Extensor brevis digitorum pedis, 10. {Annular ligaments), a, a. THE LEG. Tibialis anticus, li. Extensor proprius pollicis pedis, 12. „ longus digitorum pedis, 11. Peroneus tertius vel anticus, 15. „ brevis, 16. „ longus, 17. Tibialis posticus, 9. Flexor longus pollicis pedis, 8. „ longus digitorum pedis, 7. Soleus, 18. Popliteus, 19. Plantaris, 20. Gastrocnemius, 21. (J'endoAchiUis), 22. I