75 THE SACRUM AND COCCYX. The surface-forms dependent upon the innominate bones, will be best understood after the description of the pelvis, which must be preceded by an account of the sacrum and coccyx. The Sacrum and Coccyx. The Sacrum.—The sacral 'portion of the vertebral column, figs. 24 to 27, consists of the five immoveable and specially shaped sacral vertebrae, con- solidated into one massive wedge-shaped bone, which is placed in the middle line of the skeleton, at the back of the pelvis. It is connected laterally, at its upper part only, with the right and left innominate bones, to complete the pelvic arch or girdle. Its lower part, ending in the apex, is directed downwards and forwards, and becomes continuous with the coccyx ; its broad upper surface, or base, is articulated with the last lumbar vertebra, the lowest of the moveable vertebrae. The sacrum is curved from above downwards, with the concavity in front, and the convexity behind; but, as it is fixed between the hip-bones with a certain inclination downwards and backwards, the anterior concavity, or so- called sacral curve, is directed downwards and forwards, and the posterior convexity somewhat upwards and backwards. The anterior concavity in- creases the space in the pelvic cavity, whilst the posterior convex surface being partially subcutaneous, though chiefly covered by muscle, determines certain particular surface-forms, as well as the general inclination of that part of the back of the trunk. The curvature of the sacrum is subject to con- siderable variety. The anterior concave surface, fig. 24, which, excepting along its upper border, is also slightly concave from side to side, presents four transverse ridges, placed between the slightly excavated bodies of its five conjoined vertebrae. Of the bodies, the first or upper one, is somewhat larger than that of the last lumbar vertebra ; the second and third are considerably smaller: the fourth and fifth diminish rapidly in size. Four apertures or foramina, for the passage of nerves, are seen on each side. External to these, the lateral portions of the sacral vertebrae are completely fused, perhaps including re- presentatives of ribs. From a part of this surface, between and outside the foramina, the pyriformis muscle arises. On the posterior or dorsal surface of the sacrum, figs. 25, 26, which is narrower than the anterior, is a median ridge or crest, formed by the series of the spines of the upper four sacral vertebrae, which are more or less connected together. The highest spine is usually distinct and prominent; the third and fourth constitute a rounded eminence, the tuberos ity of the sacrum ; the lowest, or sometimes the two lowest, are rudimentary, and often cleft, the vertebral arches remaining open behind; consequently, this, the lowest, part of the