THE BONES. 16 part of this column which is situated in the nech, is called the cervix or csrviccd portion {cervix, the neck); its component vertebrae, in number, are named the cervical vertebra;, Ci. The part which corresponds with the back, is called the dorsum, or dorsal portion, and its twelve component bones, the dorsal vertebrce {dorsum, the back), Di to D12 ; the portion situated in the loins, is known as the lumbar portion, and contains five lumbar vertelyrm, L5 (lumbi, the loins). These three portions, cervical, dorsal and lumbar, com- prising in all, twenty-four vertebrae, constitute the moveaMe portion of the vertebral column, the component bones themselves, being distinguished as the moveable, or true vertebrce. Below the loins, is the sacral portion of the vertebral column, or sacrum. So (sacer, sacred), so named in animals, it is said, because this part was formerly specially offered in sacrifices; it is com- posed offioe bones, the sacral vertebra;, originally separate, but consolidated, when the growth of the body is fully complete, at about the twenty-fifth year, into a single bone. Lastly, below the sacrum, the axial part of the skeleton of the trimk, is prolonged for a short distance only, as the so-called caudal or coccygeal portion of the vertebral column (caitda, the tail; kokkv^, koJckux, a cuckoo, the bony termination of the spine being compared with the bill of that bird); this is composed of four separate bones, or imperfect vertebrae, which become rapidly reduced in size, and are named the caudal or coccygeal vertebrce, C. The sacral and coccygeal parts of the spine, comprising nine vertebrae, constitute the so-called immoveable portion of the vertebral column, ■—the bony elements themselves, being termed the immoveable or false verte- brce; this designation is true of the five sacral vertebrce, for they speedily become immoveable, although they are not united by bone till growth is complete; but it is not quite so descriptive of the coccygeal vertebrae, which retain a slight degree of movement on each other till very late in life, when they at length form a single mass, properly termed the coccyx. Enclosed within the vertebral column or spine, is a longitudinal canal, formed by a series of bony rings, belonging to the several vertebraa, and named the vertebral or spinal canal; it lodges the prolongation from the brain, named the spincd cm^d, together with the roots of the spinal nerves. Extending laterally, from the dorsal portion of tlie vertebral column, are the well-known bones, the ribs or costce [costa, a rib), twenty-four in number, twelve on each side, left and right, Ri to R12. The ribs are attached strongly, but moveably, behind, to the sides of the dorsal vertebra ; whilst, in front, each is tipped with, and continued by a corresponding piece of firm, elastic gristle or cartilage, named a costal cartilage. The upper seven ribs on each side, are prolonged by their respective cartilages, and fixed by proper joints, to the borders of a flat bone, placed longitudinally in the middle line of the trunk in front, named the sternum {arspvov, the breast or chest), S^; hence, as they form true or complete arches on either side, they are called