THE BONES. 108 the lower border of the thorax. This lower border, or ahdomino-thoracic arch, somewhat prominent, and deeply notched, in front, is formed by the ends of the twelfth and eleventh ribs or their cartilages, by the free part of the cartilages of the remaining false ribs, and of the seventh or lowest true rib, and by the border of the xiphoid cartilage. This arch is more distinctly seen, as well as all the rib forms, during certain movements of the chest necessary for breathing, and also during efforts, and particularly in arching the body backwards. It often presents an everted or elevated border, especially at the end of expiration and the commencement of inspiration. This arch is represented of greater width in the antique, than it is found to be in our living models, probably owing to peculiarities of Eace, but also to the absence, in ancient costumes, of any tight girdles, waistbands or stays, such as are worn at the present time. In short persons, the arch is, proportionately, wider than in tall persons; for, in the former, the thorax itself is usually wide and short, but, in the latter, long and narrow. In determining, on the living figure, the position or identity of any given rib, the transverse ridge between the manubrium and the body of the sternum, is a certain guide to the second, the costal cartilage of which is invariably wedged into the notch situated opposite that ridge. The second rib being found, it is easy to count downwards, and find any other. The diflference in the width of the several intercostal spaces in front, and even the widening of the upper spaces, and the narrowing of the lower ones, as they approach the sternum, may sometimes be recogTiised on the surface. Of those that are visible on tlie surface generally, the second space is the widest, next, the third and fourth, the others being comparatively narrow, except the two last. They all vary as the chest expands or contracts during breathing. In the majority of cases, the circumference of the right side of the chest, measured horizontally across its middle, is larger than the left, to the extent even of an inch. This may be due to the preferential use of the right upper limb, which, as may easily be observed, often necessitates an inclination of the trunk over to the left side, so that this half of the thorax is more or less compressed. This affords another example of a want of symmetry of form, which, though it might be indicated in a strictly naturalistic subject, must nevertheless be eliminated in ideal work. The different directions of the planes of the three component parts of the sternum, must obviously influence the corresponding parts of the surface of the body. Hence, indeed, in the upright posture, a straight rod placed flat against the part corresponding with the front of the manubrium, will be found to strike the ground, at least four or five feet in front of the toes ; if the rod be brought in contact with the front of the body of the sternum, it will touch the ground, only two feet in front of the toes; lastly, if placed along the xiphoid cartilage, it will fall between the toes. This imparts to the anterior