273 THE INDIVIDUAL MUSCLES. a neigbbouriag muscle ; occasionally, a muscle is doubled, tbat is to say, two muscles resembling eacb other in form and points of attachment, are found side by side, in the place of one. Such variations are chiefly met with in the limbs, especially in the upper or most elaborately developed limb. It is by no means uncommon to find the number of tendons into which a flexor or ex- tensor muscle divides, either increased or diminished ; and not unfrequently, unusual junctions of tendons are discovered. In figs. 132 and 184 drawn from the same subject, but not the one employed for the illustrations of the muscles generally, there are shown, examples of additional tendinous slips in the foot, extending from the peroneus fortius to the base of the first phalanx of the little toe, and in the hand, from the extensor carpi ulnaris to the correspond- ing phalanx of the little finger. These accessory or supernumerary muscular or tendinous slips are not the result of mere over-use ; they have a deeper signifi- cance, being expressions of the tendency to vary exhibited in living organisms, in internal structure, as well as in outward form. There is a mystery as to the particular cause of the variations, in any given case, or series of cases; and they often display a waywardness, justifying the appellation of ' sports;' considering the multitude of beings evolved, generation after generation, and the complex nature of the developmental process, it would be even more wonderful, if there were no play of the evolutional force which is so incessantly at work. Many of the varieties found in man, are homologous with structural arrangements proper to other animal forms : and it would seem that this tendency to vary, furnishes the most probable explanation of the occurrence, in long periods of time, of such differences as, being taken advantage of, end in the permanent appearance of superadded, or more highly evolved parts, in the ascending scale of animals. The progressi\e development of the numerous muscles of the thumb, and of the thumb itself, in the animal series, or of the muscles which pronate and supinate the hand, the radius becoming at the same time so freed from the ulna, as to be able to execute its peculiar rolling movements upon that bone, may be taken as probable examples of this mode of gradual evolution. The illustrations of the muscles, in the following pages, have been drawn on the wood from dissections, an outline of the part or region concerned, having been first designed from the life, the forms of the dead muscles being then accom- modated to those of the living figure. The bones, also drawn from nature, are represented with due care as regards their relations both to the muscles, and to the surface-forms. The subject on which the dissections for the muscles were prepared, excepting those of the side views of the foot and hand just men- tioned, those of the side and front view of the face, figs. 187, 192, and those of the eyeball and lips, was that of a powerful man, in whom, owing to his peculiar occupation, the muscles of the shoulder, arm, and forearm were very largely developed. T