27 THE SKELETON. trabeculse of the cancellated tissue, are arranged in planes and lines, more or less curved, and having an exact conformity to the direction of the weight, pressure, or muscular force, to which any given bone or part of a bone is sub- jected in the body, when at rest or in motion. These facts are illustrated in the sections of the foot, knee, head and neck of the femur, and elbow, given subsequently in the figures of the Joints, which show the course of some of the trabeculse and laminaa, and their passage into the compact, but also laminated, tissue. As might be expected, the laminse and trabeculse are larger, more boldly marked, and more definitely arranged in the bones of the lower than in those of the upper limb, and in the bodies of the lumbar than in those of the cervical vertebrae. Collectively, as we have seen, in studying the position and connexion of the bones in the skeleton, these parts determine substantially the three dimensions of the body, viz. its length, breadth, and depth from front to back. Collectively, too, they support all the other parts of the frame, hold each part in its proper and relative position, and afford protection to the various organs, viscera, vessels and nerves, even in situations where no distinct cavities exist; for example, at the inner side and aspect of flexion of the limbs, and especially in the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet. Collectively, too, they determine the different attitudes, tlie balance and the general movements of the whole body, these being maintained and accom- plished by the agency of the muscles, under the control of the nervous system. But individually, also, the bones are concerned in yielding support and protection to adjacent parts, in determining the local movements, and in regulating the local proportions, and, to a certain extent, the local forms, of the body. In these respects, accordingly, the bones must be studied individually by the artist, but, especially, in reference to their effect on local form, propor- tion and movement. Their dimensions, shapes, surfaces, articular extremities, direction, connexions, mechanical uses, and movements, must all be exam- ined, sometimes one, sometimes another point more carefully. Especially the mode in which they affect the surface forms of the body, must here be studied. In certain cases, the bones, or parts of bones, are so deeply seated, and so much covered and concealed, that they influence the superficial form in a remote and very general manner only; in other cases, however, parts of them, at least, approach the surface so nearly that they determine its local form, though not its actual finish. The length of one bone, the breadth or thickness of another, the straightness of this bone, the curvature of that,— the shaft of one bone, the ends of another,—in this place, a curved or rounded surface, here a ridge, and there a prominence, reveal themselves, more or less evidently, beneath the integuments, amidst other neighbouring forms, which depend on the presence of subjacent tendons, muscles or fat; and it is neces-