THE KNEE-PAN. 55 fibula is a certain guide to the position of the tendon of the biceps muscle, as the tendon also is to that of the bone. The rest of the fibula is hidden by muscles, but, as already stated, it is concerned in producing the charac- teristic width and general form of the human leg. The Patella or Knee-Pan. Attached below, to the upper end of the so-called ligament of the patella, above, to the tendon of the rectus femoris muscle, and, at the sides, to the tendons of the external and internal vasti muscles with the crureus muscle, is found the patella, or Jcnee-pan, figs. 17, 18,21. From its connexion with the extensor muscles, it has been compared with the olecranon process at the upper end of the ulna, which, though rarely, may be detached from that bone. As already stated, it may be regarded as a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the rectus, as this passes over the pulley-like surface of the lower end of the femur, and therefore similar, in character and office, to other sesamoid bones; but it is placed on the aspect of extension of a joint, and not on the side of flexion; its likeness to a detached ole- cranon is remarkable. The patella is a small, short, broad bone, composed chiefly of cancellated tissue, having a general triangular outline, with blunted angles, its apex being directed downwards. Its anterior surface, fig. 18, is subcutaneous, a large bursa, however, intervening between it and the skin; it is somewhat convex and marked by faint 1 -J. J- 1 T • J- J.- J. r 1 I^^IG. 17.—Posterior or ar- longitudinai Imes, mdicatmg traces oi the attach- ticular sm-face of the ment of tendinous fibres. Its upper border or base, fip-. right Patella, showing ^- ' ° its seven subordinate 18, horizontal and thick, is slightly bevelled off in facets. front, and thus affords a large surface for the insertion of the tendon of the rectus muscle, whilst the apex is deeply bevelled off behind, and roughened at its lower part, for the attachment of the ligamentum patellae, which in a manner encloses it. The two lateral borders, fig. 21, of the bone, which receive fibres from the tendons of the vasti and crureus muscles, are somewhat curved, and are not so thick as the base or apex ; but the outer border is thinner and much less prominent than the inner one. The deep or posterior surface, figs. 17, 18, is articular, and forms part of the knee joint; it has a somewhat oval shape, being broader than it is long; it is traversed by a well-marked slightly oblique ridge, inclined from above downwards and in- wards, which divides it into two chief articular facets; of these, the outer one, larger than the inner one, being both wider and longer, is concave in all direc- tions ; the inner one is both narrower and shorter, and, though concave from above downwards, is convex from side to side. The former rests upon the