THE BONES. 56 comparatively large articular surface of the external condyle of the femur ; the latter, upon that of the internal condyle; the intermediate; slightly ob- lique ridge between them, corresponds with the trochlear groove of the femur. Each lateral facet is seen, when very closely examined, to be again subdivided into three parts, namely, a middle, much the largest part, which is oval, and upper and lower, narrower transverse parts. The middle part of the outer facet, wliich is much larger than the middle part of the inner facet, extends quite to the thin, outer border of the bone; but, along the thicker, inner border, is an additional, narrow longitudinal facet, continuous with the posterior surface. Surf ace forms dependent on the Patella. The patella causes a distinct triangular prominence in front of the knee, having its base upwards and its apex downwards, both parts, as well as the lateral borders, being more or less obscured by their connexion with sur- rounding tendons, fascia and ligaments. The base and the inner border, as well as the angle at which they ui:iite, are more prominent than the apex and outer border, which are thinner, and lost in the surrounding soft parts. The remarkable breadth of the knee-pan, in man, is entirely in accordance with the characteristic breadth or roundness of the human form generally. It is said to be broader in the European than in the lower races of mankind. The Femur or Thigh-Bone. The Femur.—The single bone of the thigh, iigs. 19, 20, 22, 23, is the longest and largest of the long bones, and, indeed, the heaviest and the strongest of all the bones in the body. It is a typical long bone, distinctly presenting a more slender part or shaft, and tivo expanded extremities, of which the lower one is much the larger, for articulation with other bones. In proportion to the length of the tibia, it is comparatively long in man, and it constitutes a main element, in determining the human stature. From its great size, it presents the best illustration in the skeleton, of the combined influence of gTavity and muscular force, in determining the production of the curvatures, twists, prominences and grooves of bones. The position of the femur in the skeleton is not vertical on the head of the tibia, but more or less oblique, fig. 19, inclining upwards and outwards, towards the outer side of the corresponding hip-bone, to reach the deep socket or acetabulum of that bone, into which its upper end or head is re- ceived, and so transmits the superincumbent weight of the body. The re- lative obliquity of the femur is increased by a disproportionate length of the part known as its ' neck,' which passes inwards from the upper end of the