THE BONES OF THE FACE. 167 are placed nearly, or actually, in the same plane. The arch which they form, resting on the frontal, ethmoid, and superior maxillary bones, is so strong, that it can bear great weights, and resist most powerful blows. The Inferior Maxillary Bone.—This bone, the lower jaw bone, or mandible, figs. 61, 62, 63, J', is the largest and strongest in the face. Originally composed of two symmetrical halves, it very early becomes a single bone, by the union of these vertically along the middle line, forming the symphysis. It is shaped somewhat like a horse-shoe, with the open ends directed backwards and turned sharply up. In regard to length, it is adapted to meet the upper jaw bone; being used only for purposes of mastication and speech, and not for seizing food or prey, both jaws are comparatively short. The thick, solid, horizontal part, which supports the inferior dental arch, containing the lower teeth, is named the body, and the upturned, flattened ends, the rami or branches. The under border of the body meets the hinder border of the ramus, on each side, at the rounded angle, a very important point in relation to the width and form of the cheek. The posterior border of each ramus, expands above, chiefly on its inner aspect, into an obliquely placed oblong eminence, named the condyle, fig. 61, c, {KovhvXos, a knuckle). The two condyles, convex from before backwards, and also from side to side, are received into the glenoid cavities of the two temporal bones, and, with an inter-articular fibro-cartilage, form the temporo-maxillary articulations. The inner end of each condyle, reaches somewhat further back than the outer end, and, as in the case of the glenoid cavities, lines drawn through their long- axes, would, if prolonged inwards, meet at an obtuse angle, in front of the foramen magnum. The outer part of each condyle is a little higher than the inner part, and the roof of the glenoid cavity exhibits a corresponding obliquity from without inwards. These two conditions obviously increase the security of the joints; for the oblique positi an of the condyles, and the inclination of their upper surfaces, must both tend to prevent their lateral displacement. The inter-articular fibro-cartilages greatly facilitate the movements of the joints. Below each condyle, is a narrow part, named the neck of the bone, which is convex behind, but somewhat widened laterally, and presents in front, a small depression for the insertion of the external pterygoid muscle. The neck descends to the ramus, and is placed beneath the outer part of the condyle, which, therefore, projects inwards beyond the ramus. In front of the neck, the upper, sharp concave margin of the ramus, forms the sigmoid notch, in front of which, is the laterally flattened, bill-shaped projection, named the coronoid process, fig. 62. When the lower jaw is in position, with the condyles in the glenoid cavities, the coronoid processes reach up, under cover LEEDS ^V'EST RIOING