THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 341 the two sides form an ellipse, fig, 167, ^, prolonged upwards, and having the spinous process of the vertebra prominens about opposite to its line of greatest width. The lower part of the fleshy portion of the muscle is thin; the middle and upper parts are thicl^er, especially the part which passes across to the point of the shoulder. The lower part of the muscle ends on a flat triangular tendon of insertion, which glides over the smooth triangular surface at the root of the spinous process of the scapula, a bursa inter- vening, and so reaches the upper border of that process, just beyond; the rest of the insertion consists of short tendinous fibres, mixed with fleshy fasciculi; these trespass on the portions of the scapula and clavicle, to which they are attached, and which, it will be seen, corre- spond exactly in extent, with the line of origin of the deltoid muscle below. The trapezius may vary, even on the two sides of the body; its occipital origin may be wanting; its cervical and dorsal parts are sometimes distinct; its dorsal origin may be limited to five or six ver- tebrae ; sometimes its clavicular attachment, fig. 161, reaches as far forwards as the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Usually, however, there is, here, an interval between the two muscles, figs. 160, 166, 187, in which, small parts of the scaleni, ScA, 8cP, the levator an- guli scapulae, *\ Le, and splenius capitis,^"", become superficial. In the back, fig. 167, a little triangular space, 2^', exists between the greater rhomboid, the trapezius, and the latissimus dorsi muscles, in which, small parts of the seventh rib and of the subjacent ex- ternal intercostal muscle, become subcutaneous. Acting as a whole, and by itself, the trapezius carries the scapula, and, with it, the clavicle, upwards and back- wards. If the scapula be free, the upper or cranial part of the muscle, contracting by itself, would assist the levator and the lesser rhomboid in raising the scapula, as in shrugging the shoulder, or in carrying a Fig. 160.—The Trapezius, of the Superficial Dorsal Group.