244 THE JOINTS. wards, to the outer side and back of the neok of the lower jaw. A long, thin, triangular band, the internal lateral ligament, extends downwards and forwards, from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and, passing by the neck of the lower jaw, is attached to a flat process and elevated ridge, found on the inner surface of its ramus. Lastly, an accessory fibrous band, derived from the fascia of the neck, named the stylo-maxillary ligament, reaches from the styloid process of the temporal bone, to the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, and aids in supporting the bone, in its peculiar suspended position. The powerful muscles of mastication, connected with this bone, serve to maintain its condyles in due apposition with the inter-articular cartilage of each joint, and these, again, with the glenoid cavities of the temporal bones. Eacli of these fibro-cartilages, which divides the cavity of thu corresponding joint into two part?, is a transversely oval Fig. 116.—The Ligaments of the left side of the Lower Jaw. Fig. 117.—The Articulation of the Lower Jaw laid open, to show the inter-articular cartilage. The coronoid process is removed, to show the external pterygoid muscle with some of its fibres attached to the cartilage. strong plate, thickest behind and thinnest at its centre, where it is sometimes perforated, so that the two articular cavities communicate. Its upper surface, concavo-convex from before backwards, but slightly convex from side to side, is adapted to the form of the corresponding glenoid cavity ; its under surface, which rests on the condyle of the lower jaw-bone, is concave, more deeply so from before backwards. Its borders are attached to the capsular ligament, aad, externally, to the external lateral ligament; whilst, in front, it has, inserted into it, a few fibres from the external pterygoid muscle. The part of the capsule above the fibro-cartilage, is looser than the part below it, so that, as a rule, the cartilage follows the movements of the jaw-bone on the tem- poral bone. Movements.—The two joints of the lower jaw represent a double hinge, which acts with great security up and down ; it also permits direct backward and forward movements, and lateral horizontal ones of the whole bone, the latter being dependent on alternate oblique forward and backward movements