THE INFLUENCE OF THE MUSCLES ON FORM. 265 example of a muscle contracting in an elongated state, owing to the shortened condition of its fully contracted antagonist, the biceps, preveating any opposite movement of the bones. In the two former positions of the triceps, tigs. 121, 122, the outlines of its fleshy and tendinous portions pass gently into each other, a condition characteristic of the relaxed, or simply tonic condition, with or without actual stretching, of a muscle. Even in the con- tracted state, provided the muscle is stretched, as in fig. 123, the contours remain soraewliat soft; it is only when the muscle is moi-e, or completely shortened, as well as contracted, that the differences in outline between the tendinous and the fleshy portions are prominently marked. Every muscle in the body undergoes the changes just described, and the primary or essential, and secondary, incidental, or complementary changes, whether due to action, or to rest, should be carefully studied in all the super- ficial or subcutaneoiis muscles. Each may contract in different degrees of intensity, and also in any of its conditions or stages as to length, accordingly as it is free or opposed ; each may be, complementarily relaxed, mechanically stretched, and, together with its tendons, secondarily displaced in relation to the surrounding parts, which may thus have their forms also affected. In regard to these changes, certain general rules are useful to remember. Thus the thickest part of any given muscle, whatever its primitive shape, becomes the most convex, when it is contracted ; even broad muscles and straplike muscles become more elevated, in places where they are thickest ; compound muscles, composed of many slips, have their separate* subdivisions made more distinct, and when they have oblique fasciculi, widen themselves, out of all proportion to the amount of shortening which they undergo. Tendons and aponeuroses suffer no alteration of their actual length or width ; but wide tendons and expanded aponeuroses become flattened or even de- pressed, and tapering or rounded ones usually start up, and become more prominent; transverse tendinous intersections become depressions between the elevated fleshy parts of a transversely segmented muscle ; whilst longitudinal tendinous intervals, and the borders of intermuscular septa, appear as super- ficial grooves or markings. In figs. 166,167, are to be found some illustrations of these points. In fig. 166, the greater pectoral muscle, and the latis- simus dorsi muscle, are both not merely relaxed, but mechanically stretched, and so is the coraco-brachialis, ; whilst the triceps of the arm, and the biceps, are both in moderate action, opposing and balancing- each other. In fig. 167, the latissimus dorsi, of the right side, is relaxed and mechanically stretched, whilst on the left side, it is quiescent; the right• trapezius, is in powerful action, its upper and middle portion being accord- ingly shortened and thickened, but its lower portion, though contracted, not so shortened, because the scapula is carried forwards from the spine ; the right deltoid muscle, is also strongly contracted, but its hinder border has to