165 THE BONES OF THE FACE. sinuous edge, running first outwards, and then downwards ; it projects so far outwards, as to reach the lower border of the malar and zygomatic arch. The alveolar process is the thickest part of the bone, and is broader behind than in front. Its lower or dental border is evenly curved, and the two together, being connected firmly by broad edges along the middle line, form an elongated horse-shoe shaped rim, named the superior dental arch, in which the alveoli or sockets for the upper teeth, are situated. These teeth are, in the adult jaw, eight in number on each side, namely, two incisors, one canine, two bicuspids or small molars, and three large molars. The situation of the alveoli is indicated by slight ridges and depressions on the surface of the bone, the ridge for the canine tooth, already mentioned, being particularly prominent. The sockets themselves vary in size, depth, and shape, according to the teeth which are fitted into them, being single for the incisor, canine and bicuspid, but subdivided for the triple-fanged molar teeth. In advanced age, the alveolar border undergoes absorption, as the teeth fall out; the alveoli are then obliterated, and the border of the bone becomes thin and solid. The palatine process of this bone, fig. 61, J, passes horizontally inwards from the dental border, between the mouth and the nose, and joins with the palatine process of the opposite superior maxillary bone, to form the anterior two- thirds of the hard palate, the hinder third being formed by the palate bones, p. In this way, the bony roof of the mouth and the floor of the nose, are com- pleted. The upper concave surface of the palatine process, presents a median longitudinal crest, which, with that on the opposite bone, supports the vomer, or bony septum of the nose. The outer surface of the alveolar border, is covered by the gums, and concealed by the cheeks and upper lips; behind, it ends in the rounded maxillary tuberosity, which joins the palate bone; in front, just above the incisive fossa, it is continued beneath the anterior openings of the nose, and completes, by its upper curved border, the lower margin of those apertures. In the middle line, is a little, sharp, curved process, named the anterior nasal spine, fig. 62, which, directed foi'wards, or forwards and a little upwards, and united with a similar process on the opposite bone, assists in supporting the cartilaginous septum of the nose. The nasal process, frequently called the ascending or mounting process, of the superior maxillary bone, ascends inwards, and a little backwards, between the cavities of the orbit and the nose, and becoming narrower, reaches as high as the internal angular process of the frontal bone, to which its oblique upper border is united by a finely indented edge. Its external surface, directed outwards and a little forwards, and somewhat undulating, is nearly subcu- taneous, being covered only by the skin and by the thin orbicularis palpebrarum muscle; it forms the sloping side of the nose, its inner surface entering into that cavity, and coming into contact with the ethmoid and the inferior turbinated bones. The posterior border of this ascending process