170 THE BONES. teeth. In the upper jaw, the two middle incisors, right and left, by far the largest of the entire incisor group, are larger than the two lateral incisors; in the lower jaw, on the contrary, the two middle or central incisors are smaller than the two lateral ones. The incisors are wedge-shaped, slightly convex in front, and have nearly straight or flat edges, but this is more marked in regard to the middle incisors. The canine teeth are the longest, and have a pyramidal or pointed shape. The upper canines, one on each side, are larger and more pointed than the lower ones, so that the former shut down beyond, or outside of, the latter, and, indeed, become opposed to the first small molars or bicuspids of the lower jaw. Moreover, as the horse-shoe shaped alveolar border of each jaw, curves a little more suddenly opposite to the canine teeth, the arch itself is wider across at this point in the upper, than in the lower jaw, as already indicated. Behind the canines, the teeth, except on rare occasions, are lost to view ; but it may be remembered that each tooth in the upper jaw, whether bicuspid or molar, is placed a little further back than the corresponding" tooth in the lower jaw, so that the latter shuts a little in front of the former. Moreover, the upper molars slant a little outwards, and the lower ones a little inwards to meet them. The edges of the entire upper row of teeth, seen sideways, form a slightly convex line, more marked in the lower races of mankind ; whilst the margin formed by the lower teeth, is corre- spondingly concave ; but the general direction of their line of contact, is horizontal. The alveolar portion of both jaws, is covered only by the gums, which are themselves continuous with the cheeks and lips. The Skull considered as a whole. The cranial portion of the skull presents a base, sides, and vault. In the uneven base, fig. 61, are found, commencing from behind, the greater part of the occipital bone ; part of the mastoid and squamous, and all of the petrous portions of the temporal bones; the under surface of the sphenoid bone, except a portion of its greater wings; the orbital plates of the frontal bone, and the horizontal plate of the ethmoid ; the two last-named parts are concealed from view by the vomer, palate, and superior maxillary bones. The smoother sides, fig. 62, are formed, successively, by portions of the occipital, parietal, and frontal bones, with a part of the great wings of the sphenoid, and the squamous and mastoid portions of the temporal bones. The smooth and convex vault, figs. 62, 63, comprises the part of the occipital bone above its protuberance, the parts of the parietal bones above the curved lines, the upper part of the frontal bone between its temporal ridges, and down to the orbital margin, the external and internal angles, and the nasal eminence. Of these bones, the occipital and sphenoid coalesce solidly in the adult, at the basilar process, in front of the foramen magnum, the weight of the head being