THE JOINTS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 235 Movements.—These are universal and very free, most of them being more free than those of the hip ; but rotation is not so free, as the neck of the humerus is much shorter than that of the femur. The numerous capsular muscles, with atmospheric pressure, maintain the bones in contact ; and the upper limb executes a free pendulum movement, which helps to adjust the centre of gravity, and so balances the body, in walking. As compared with the lower limb, the motions of the upper one are more frequently free, whilst those of the lower litnb are forced by weight or pressure. The habitual action of the lower limb is towards rotation outwards, whilst that of the upper one is towards rotation inwards, or over the body; this is true of the elbow and wrist also. When the arm is raised from the side, or abducted, it stops at a right angle with the trunk, provided that the scapula be fixed. The head of the humerus rolls in beneath the acromion, and its greater tuberosity approximates closely to that process ; there is no actual collision of the bones, nor are the intermediate soft tissues pressed or nipped, which would be pain- ful ; but the movement is arrested, especially by the anterior accessory liga- ment, and by the muscles, just before any such contact can occiu-. The Elbow Joint.—The elboiv, the most perfect hinge joint in the body, figs. 102 to 108, is completed by a loose capsule, by anterior and pos- terior ligaments, and, like other hinge joints, by two strong lateral ligaments. Its cavity is continuous with that between the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the head of the radius, and with that between the head of the radius and the radio-ulnar orbicular ligament. The anterior ligament, figs. 102, 106, strongest opposite the middle of the joint, descends from the margin of the coronoid fossa of the humerus to the front of the coronoid process of the ulna, and to the orbicular ligament around the head of the radius; on either side, it joins the lateral ligaments. The posterior ligament, fig. 105, thinner and looser than the anterior, is attached, above, along the upper border of the trochlea, and, below, to the margin of the olecranon process, some of its fibres passing transversely, and others reaching the orbicular ligament of the radius. The internal lateral ligament, fig. 104, triangular in shape, is attached, by its apex, to the inner condyle of the humerus, just beneath the epi-trochlea. Its fibres diverge as they descend, to be attached to the side of the olecranon, to the margin of the coronoid process, and to a transverse band which passes between these two processes. Tlie external lateral ligament, figs. 103, 107, consists chiefly of a short, narrow, rounded band, attached above to the outer condyle or epi-condyle of the humerus, and, below, to the orbicular ligament of the radius, fig. 107, a few of its hinder fibres passing over this ligament, to reach the margin of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Movements.—Flexion, here much more free than extension, is nearly as free