THE MUSCLES. 372 longitudinal, between the metacarpal bones. Adjacent sides of all the meta- carpal bones -tubercles on the sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the fingers, and the aponeurotic expansions of the common extensor tendons. The first dorsal interosseous, between the first and second metacarpal bones, is the largest, and is triangular in shape; it is sometimes named the abductor indicis. The short tendons of the first and the second dorsal interossei, are inserted into the radial side of the index and the middle fingers; those of the third and fourth, into the ulnar side of the middle and ring fingers. The second and third muscles, therefore, abduct the middle finger from an imaginary line passing through its longitudinal axis ; the first and fourth abduct the index and the ring fingers from the middle finger, or from the same line passing through it. In the foot, it will be remembered that the line, from and to which, abduction and adduction of the toes take place, passes, down the second toe, which is usually the longest, and not down the middle digit, as in the hand, which finger is also the longest. Abductor minimi digiti, figs. 178, 179, 181, 183, 185, Superficial; fusiform; the innermost of the muscles in the palm, being placed along its inner border. Pisiform bone and tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, and the expansion of the extensor tendon. It abducts the little finger, and aids in flexing it. Abductor pollicis, or abductor brevis pollicis, figs. 178, 179, 181, 183, 184, Superficial; narrow, flat; obliquely downwards and outwards, on the ball of the thumb. Oblique ridge on the trapezium, and anterior annular ligament outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. It is sometimes connected with the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. It abducts the thumb on its metacarpal bone, and draws the whole thumb forwards. Interossei palmares, figs. 178, 181, Deep; three in number, smaller than the dorsal interossei, semi-penniform ; longitudinal upon, not between, the metacarpal bones. The_yirs^, ulnar side of the second meta- carpal bone ulnar side of the first phalanx of the index finger ; the second and third, radial sides of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones radial sides of the first phalanges of the ring and little fingers. Like the dorsal interossei, their tendons also join the expansion of the common extensor tendon on the back of each finger. They adduct the index, ring and little fingers, towards the middle finger. Adductor pollicis, figs. 178, 179, 181, 183, 184, Deep, except in the fold between the forefinger and the thumb ; triangular, the broadest muscle of the thumb ; converges transversely from the deepest part of the centre of the palm, across the web of the thumb, seeming to belong to the palmar interosseous series. Palmar surface of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, together with the inner portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. It adducts the thumb,