THE BONES. 62 lines, just described, the articular surface of the lower end of the femur becomes wider, and branches out, to form the somewhat flattened under surfaces of the two condyles, which are here separated by the deep intercon- dyloid fossa, already mentioned. The under surface of the outer condyle, broader and less convex than the other, passes somewhat obliquely backwards and slightly outwards; it rests on the corresponding tibial facet, which is also broad and nearly circular. The under surface of the inner condyle is narrower and more convex, especially at one part; it passes backwards and inwards, and presents a curved form, when seen from below, having its con- cavity turned towards the other condyle; its rounded prominent surface rests upon the inner, narrower, oval, tibial facet, which has its long axis directed from before backwards. The weight of the body, passing chiefly through the outer condyle of the femur, is transferred to the external and anterior part of the tibia ; the remainder, passing through the inner condyle, descends to the internal and hinder part of that bone. In extension of the leg at the knee- joint, the tibia is turned a little outwards, so that the anterior part of the head of that bone is placed more directly beneath the outer condyle, and the hind part more completely under the inner condyle. These condyloid articu- lar surfaces are both prolonged upwards behind the lower end of the femur, fig. 20, and become more convex, the outer one remaining broader and flatter, and extending a little higher up than the inner one. It is against these pro- longations of the condyloid articular surfaces, that the tibia is applied when the leg is bent, in which position alone can the tibia be rotated on the thigh at the knee-joint, the axis of the rotatory movement passing down between the condyles, but nearer to the inner one, so that the external circular facet of the tibia moves backwards and forwards on the outer condyle more freely, than the internal oval tibial facet does on the inner condyle. The deep intercondyloid notch or fossa, fig. 20, bounded in front by the lower margin of the trochlear surface, and on either side by the diverging condyloid surfaces, is seen on the under and posterior aspect of the bone ; it serves for the lodgment and attachment of the upper ends of the deep-seated crucial ligaments, which are fixed below to the head of the tibia. The external and internal tuberosities of the femur, figs. 22, 23, already mentioned as the points, to which the two lower diverging lines of the linea aspera extend, are situated one on each side of the bone, a short distance above the cm-ved margins of the outer and inner condyloid articular surfaces, and behind the centre of the knee-joint. To these tuberosities, the strong lateral ligaments of the knee are fixed, and also the so-called intermuscular septa, derived from the fascia lata ; the inner one is broader and much more prominent than the outer one, and immediately above it, is a small pointed tubercle for the attachment of the rounded tendon of the adductor magnus. Posterior to each tuberosity, at the back of the con- dyle, above its articular surface, is a rough depression for the origin of the cor-