408 THE MUSCLES. of the lid, whilst the other is connected with the orbital fascia, which reaches from it, to the corresponding border of the orbit; the inner ends of the tarsal cartilages are fixed to the inner wall of the orbit, by the internal tarsal liga- ments, fibrous offsets from the short, white tendo palpebrarum, fig. 196, T o, which is attached to the anterior margin of the lacrymal groove ; a portion of the fascia just mentioned, sometimes named the external tarsal ligament, fixes the outer ends of the cartilages. The upper cartUage, like the corre- sponding eyelid, is the larger; this eyelid also is the more moveable one, and is chiefly concerned in opening and shutting the lids. When the eyelids are closed, their relatively thick, flattened edges meet along a transverse curved line, convex downwards, and passing across below the centre of the eyeball, thus more efi'ectually excluding light from the eye. The eyelashes, arranged in two or more rows, reaching further towards the outer than the inner end of each eyelid, and much longer, shorter, and more numerous in the upper eyelid, curve upwards and downwards from each other, fig. 195 ; hence, when the lids are closed, they meet, but do not cross, so as to become entangled as they separate. The skin on the eyelids is very thin, and is always free from fat, which would interfere very much with their movements, especially with their opening. When opened, the elliptical aperture be- tween them is what is commonly spoken of as ' the eye,' considered as a feature of the face, but through which only a small portion of the eyeball is visible. Fig 196 —The Muscles of outer corner, or canthus {Kav66s), which is the Right Eyebrow and gj^uated on a plane further back than the inner Eyelids. corner, the eyelids meet at an acute angle, fig. 196 ; but, at the inner ends, the true tarsi terminate somewhat abruptly, at the commencement of an elongated recess, the lacrymal fossa, which slants a little downwards and inwards, towards the nose, and really belongs to the tear apparatus, for in its upper and lower borders are concealed the lacrymal canals, which lead from two puncta in the eyelids, into the lacrymal sac. In this fossa, is a small, pink, moist elevation, called the caruncle (caro, flesh), fig. 196 ; and, between that and the eyeball, is a thin, semi-lunar fold of the conjunctiva, having its free concave edge turned towards the eyeball, and best seen when the eye is directed outwards ; it is the representative of the haw, or nictitating membrane, existing in the horse, and of the third eyelid in certain birds. Levator palpebrce superioris, figs. 195, 196, Deep, within the orbit; long, slender, flat; from behind forwards, above the superior rectus. Back part of the roof of the orbit, close to the foramen for the optic nerve anterior surface of the upper tarsal cartilage, by an aponeurotic expansion. Antagonising the