270 THE MUSCLES. moulded, but it conceals the papillfe; it is, of course, perforated by tlie bairs, whilst the ducts of the sudoriferous glands open in the form of little pores on its surface. The hairs and nails l)elong structurally to the cuticle, and like it, are destitute of blood-vessels and nerves, and are therefore non-vascular and not sensitive. The skin, thus formed, thinner and finer in women than in men, owes its thickness chiefly to the cutis, excepting in the palms and soles, where the cuticle also is very thick. Speaking generally, the skin is thicker on the back than on the fore part of the trunk, and thicker on the outer than on the inner aspect of the limbs; it is, for the most part, tbin at the foldings of the joints, but it is still thinner on the eyelids, in the auditory meatus, and especially on the red border of the lips, where it becomes continuous with the mucous membrane of the mouth. The fine intersecting lines of the cutis with the corresponding furrows of the cuticle, cut up the surface of the skin into minute, lozenge-shaped or angular spaces, which are exceedingly small on the thinner parts of the skin, sometimes larger and well-marked as on the back of the hand, and pass gradually into the still larger creases opposite the foldings of the joints. The parallel ridges belonging to the cutis, are peculiar to the palms and soles, where they form curvilinear lines very charac- teristically arranged. Fine hairs grow everywhere, except on the palms and soles, and on the eyelids; these, and also the larger hairs, have usually each a small pale muscular fibre so connected with their bulbs or sacs, that when it contracts, as under the influence of cold, or of fear, which, interrupting the flow of blood to the skin, produces a sense of coldness on the surface, the hair is temporarily erected, and the skin roughened, so as to produce the condition known as ' goose-skin.' In the face, many of the fibres of the muscles, especially of the eyebrows, lips, and chin, are inserted into the under surface of the cutis; this is also true of the fibres of the palmaris brevis muscle in the hand. Over the palms and soles, especially on the heel, toes, and tips of the fingers, the skin is firmly adherent to the fibrous and fatty tissue beneath it, and, through the former, to the periosteum of the bones. Along the various fwrotus corresponding with the subcutaneous portions of the skeleton, where the superficial fascia is very scantily developed, the skin is also fixed a little more closely than over the proper fascia around, and this is likewise the case along the lineaalba, and the tendinous intersections of the recti muscles of the abdomen. On the contrary, over the prominences of the bones on the aspect of extension of the joints, where bursse exist in the superficial fascia, the skin is very loosely attached, and is thrown into folds of special shape, when the joints are straightened. The natural coverings of the muscles, thus described, soften down the external forms both of the fleshy and tendinoi^ portions of these contractile