THE MUSCLES OF THE TEUNK. 331 ficially, with the ninth rib and the external oblique muscle ; at its lower end, it unites with the aponeurosis of the transversalis, to form the conjoined tendon, by which both are attached to the inner end of the pecten and crest of the pubes. From the free arched lower border of the internal oblique muscle, a few fleshy fasciculi, constituting the cremaster muscle, are detached, to proceed along the cord, which here passes out of the abdominal cavity. Obliquus externus abdominis, figs. 152, 155, Superficial throughout, except for a very small space behind, where it is overlapped by the latissimus dorsi; very broad and irregularly quadrilateral, consisting above, behind and at the side, of numerous fleshy digitations, and, in front and below, of a wide aponeurosis; its muscular fasciculi, thicker and larger than those of the inter- nal oblique, are, with the exception of the hindmost which are nearly vertical, directed downwards, forwards and inwards, and, accordingly, in the reverse direction to those of the internal oblique. Outer surface and lower borders of the lower eight ribs, by as many distinct processes or digitations anterior half, or more, of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and the broad aponeurosis which covers the front of the abdomen, reaching from Poupart's ligament and the pubes to the sternum and certain costal cartilages, and uniting with the aponeuroses of all the broad muscles of both sides of the abdomen, in the linea alba. The digitations of this muscle commence by oblique lines on the several ribs ; the upper five increase in size from above downwards, and are received between corresponding digitations of the serratus magnus muscle, to be presently described; the lower three diminish in size from above downwards, and are received between the digitations of the latissimus dorsi, which here slightly overlaps the external oblique. The line of attachment of the series of digitations is crescentic, fig. 166, being slightly convex forwards and downwards, the upper and lower digitations approaching the costal cartilages, the middle ones being at some distance from them. The lower digitations are somewhat variable in number and in form; and sometimes a fleshy bundle connects this muscle with the great serratus. The combined superficial aponeurosis of the three broad abdominal muscles, fig. 155, constitutes the largest and most remarkable aponeurotic structure in the whole body; it is widest below, and somewhat narrower across the middle than it is above; its upper fibres are connected with the pectoralis major muscle; including the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, it forms the anterior wall of the sheath of the rectus ; its lower border, very strong and distinct, forms Pouparfs ligament, which extends obliquely downwards and inwards, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of the pubes, and which, being attached to the fascia lata of the thigh, is fixed, so as to be convex downwards, in its middle portion, where it forms the anatomical delimitation of the trunk from the lower limb. The inner end of Poupart's ligament, somewhat rounded, forms the outer