THE BONES. 36 from the inner side, the articular plane slants downwards and backwards, so that the bone itself is directed downwards and forwards, from the tarsus towards the ground. The under border of the base of this bone is prolonged towards the middle of the sole of the foot, so as to meet the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, which is inserted into a rough, oval prominence on this part of the bone. On the side of the bone, next to the second metatar- sal bone, is a flat or slightly hollowed surface for the origin of the inner head of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. The under surface is broad and con- cave, and, at its hinder end, presents a prominence for the attachment of a part of the tendon of the tibialis anticus ; this surface is separated from the inner subcutaneous surface by a curved ridge. The anterior extremities or heads of the four outer metatarsal bones are very nearly alike; they decrease in size from the second to the fifth, the latter presenting great irregularity of surface. They are compressed laterally, and terminate in smooth, convex, articular eminences, which are prolonged further on the plantar than on the dorsal aspect, that is, more on the aspect of flexion or bending of the joint, than on that of extension or straightening. These surfaces articulate with the somewhat deeply concave bases of the first phalanges of the corresponding toes; they bifurcate posteriorly, and end in two little eminences which serve to support certain cartilaginous plates be- longing to these joints, and, moreover, they are slightly grooved in the middle, for the reception of the long flexor tendons. Behind the articular surfaces, are certain symmetrical prominences for the attachment of the plantar fascia and ligaments, and, in the case of the fifth metatarsal bone, for the partial origin of the transverse muscle of the foot. The wide tarsal ends or bases of the second, third and fourth metatarsal bones, are broad and rough on the dorsal surface, and somewhat narrower, but also rough, on the plantar surface, for the attachment of ligaments and of fibrous expansions from the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, and also for the origin of the adductor pollicis muscle. They resemble each other in form, being more or less wedge-shaped, and they articulate, by somewhat triangular and flattened surfaces, with their appropriate tarsal bones, and, by nearly plane surfaces, with each other, at their contiguous sides. The second metatarsal, narrow on its under surface, and reaching further backwards to articulate with the middle cuneiform bone, is dovetailed in, between the in- ternal and external cuneiform bones, with both of which it is also articulated. It likewise forms a small joint on its outer side, with the third metatarsal bone, so that it articulates with four bones. This wedge-like reception of the second metatarsal bone, strengthens this part of the foot. The third meta- tarsal articulates, by its posterior extremity, with the external cuneiform bone, and, laterally, with the second and fourth metatarsal bones. The fourth articulates posteriorly, by a nearly quadrilateral surface, with the cuboid bone ;