64 THE BONES. externus below, is really subcutaneous, or uucovered by muscle and tendon; this is of great importance in reference to the surface forms. The lesser trochanter is best seen from behind, fig. 20; it is a small pyramidal eminence of variable size, situated lower down than the greater trochanter, and projecting directly inwards from the back of the upper part of the shaft, having its base connected, by three strong, diverging, bony ridges, •with the shaft, the gTeater trochanter and the neck of the femur ; whilst its apex is bent a little forwards and upwards, for the attachment of the upper part of the common tendon of the iliacus and psoas muscles, which descend from tlie interior of the pelvis. A part of the apex is smooth and covered by a bursa ; below this trochanter, is a triangular surface for the low^er part of the iliacus muscle. Between the two trochanters, at the back of the bone, is a well-marked oblique ridge, curved with its concavity turned inwards and up- wards ; this is the i^osterior intertrochanteric line, fig. 20; its upper part forms the prominent posterior border of the great trochanter, and serves to support both trochanters, and strengthen the bone; it also constitutes the base line of the neck of the femur behind. In front of the bone, a little below the junction of the great trochanter with the upper border of the neck, is a prominence named the tubercle. From it, a less distinctly marked oblique line passes downwards and inwards, to a point below the lesser tro- chanter, forming the anterior intertrochanteric line, fig. 19; it is the line of insertion of the capsular ligament, and of certain accessory bands placed in front of the hip-joint ; it ends in the spiral line of the femur, fig. 23, which may be traced to the inner lip of the linea aspera. The neck of the femur is the short part of tlie bone which juts obliquely upwards, inwards, and likewise a little forwards, from the upper end of the shaft. In consequence of this forward direction of the neck of the femur, its plane differs from that, even of the upper part of the shaft of the bone, and, considerably, from that of the plane passing througl* the condyles, which, owing to the twist already described as existing in the shaft of the bone, is more or less transverse, according to the position of the limb. "It commences by a wider part or base, opposite the two intertrochanteric lines, and, having become somewhat constricted, again enlarges to end in, and support the rounded eminence, which constitutes the head of the femur. The neck usually forms an obtuse angle of about 125° with the shaft. The great relative length, and the obliquity of the neck of the femur, are both characteristic of the human form. In the infant, the neck is very short; in childhood it is longer, but still proportionally short, and moreover, deviates so slightly from the direction of the shaft, that it forms, with it, a very obtuse angle, or very open cm-ve, wliilst the two trochanters, especially the greater one, are much less prominent. In the aged, the neck of the femur again becomes shorter, wastes, and appears to sink, so as to approach nearer to a