THE MUSCLES OF THE AKM. 357 Table of Muscles op the Upper Limb—continued. THE VOB.^-A.^M.—contimied. THE HAND. Flexor longus poUicis, 68. Supinator brevis, 69. „ ■ longus, 70. Extensor carpi radialis longior, 71. „ „ „ brevior, 72. „ „ ulnaris, 73 Interossei dorsales, 80. Abductor minimi digiti, 80a. Interossei palmares, 81. Abductor pollicis, 81a. Opponens pollicis, 82. pollicis, 80i. communis digitorum, 74. minimi digiti, 75. indicis, 76. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 77. primi internodii pollicis, 78. secundi internodii pollicis, 79. Palmaris brevis, 85. {Palmar fascia, 64.) Lumbricales, 67a. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, 83 brevis pollicis, 84. minimi digiti, 82a. The muscles of the shoulder-girdle, the scapular or, as they have been termed, the scapulo-humeral muscles, and the superficial shoulder muscle, all of which are really connected with the Upper Limb, have been already noticed with the other muscles of the Trunk, in which part they are chiefly placed. It remains here to describe the muscles situated in the Arm, the Fore-arm, and the Hand. These, few in number, include an adductor muscle of the arm, the coraco- brachialis, which is really a scapulo-humeral muscle, a flexor group, which bends the fore-arm, and an extensor group, which straightens the fore-arm. The Adductor Muscle.—Goraco-brachialis, fig. 168, Deep, except for a short distance on the inner side of the arm, especially seen when this is raised; elongated, conical, narrow and tendinous above, flat and ten- dinous below; downwards and outwards, through the outer side of the axilla. Apex of the coracoid process of the scapula, in close connexion with the short head of the biceps ridge along the middle of the inner side of the humerus. This muscle adducts the humerus, and draws it not only inwards, but forwards and upwards. If the upper limb be fixed, it aids in drawing the scapula, or the trunk, towards the arm. The Flexor Group, figs. 168, 169.—This consists of the brachialis anticus, and the biceps muscle of the arm. Brachialis anticus, figs. 168, 169, Covered in front, by the biceps and its tendon, but superficial on either side, showing more on the outer than the inner border of the arm; broad, fusiform, pointed at each end, and some- what flattened ; embraces, by a fork-like origin, the V-shaped tendon of the deltoid, descends a little inwards in front of the humerus, and sinks deeply The Muscles op the Akm.