24 THE BONES. carbonate of lime, and of 33 per cent, of an animal substance which is con- vertible into gelatine or glue on being boiled. The intimate admixture of these two constituents, even in the minutest particles of the bone substance, contributes to its combined firmness and elasticity. If the animal matter be removed by careful burning, the residual earthy matter, still retains the form of the bone, but crumbles under very slight pressure or force. When the earthy matter is dissolved out by a dilute acid, the residual animal matter, also retaining the form of the bone, may be bent in any direction, but recovers its shape on being left alone ; thus, a long bone, like the fibula, may be tied into a knot, whilst a flat bone, like the scapula, may be squeezed through the narrow neck of a wide bottle. The earthy basis is hard and brittle; the animal basis is soft and elastic; combined, they are very hard,, and very strong. Bone resists local pressure, so that it cannot without great difficulty be indented ; it resists local force or strain, so as not very easily to be broken. Weight for weight, it is the strongest material known to us. It is even stronger, because more elastic, when moist and living, than when dry and dead. The absolute resistance of bone to breakage, as compared with that of other materials, has been expressed by the following numbers: Wrought Iron 580, Copper 440, Bone 270, Wood 120, Marble 20, Lead 19. As regards general form, the most readily distinguished bones in the skeleton, are the so-called long or cylindrical bones, such as the femur, humerus, tibia and fibula, radius and ulna, the ribs, the collar-bones, the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, and the phalanges of the fingers and toes ; others again are called broad, flat, or tabular, such as the bones of the upper part and sides of the cranium, and the scapula and innominate bones; others again are short, such as the bones of the tarsus and carpus ; and lastly, the remainder are termed mixed or irregular bones, such as the bones of the face and the base of the cranium, the moveable vertebra?, the sacrum, the coccyx, and the sternum. Speaking generally, the long bones form central levers, as in the limbs, the broad or flat bones protect the cavities of the body, such as those of the pelvis and cranium; whilst the short bones are found where great strength, combined with both elasticity and a limited capacity of movement, is required, as in the spine, the wrist, and the hinder part of the foot. The long bones are always curved. Some, like the femur, present a single curve ; others are curved in two directions, like the collar-bone, whilst others, again, like the ulna and the ribs, present complex curves, accompanied often with a twist or torsion. All such curvatures increase the elasticity and, so far, the resisting power of the bone; they also serve to enlarge the surface of attachment for muscles, and to furnish the means of giving special direction to certain portions of a muscle. Instances of this kind are to be found in many long bones, and in parts of broad bones, as in the femur, ulna, radius,