THE BONES. 88 provision for the attachment of the more numerous and more subdivided muscles here present, in conformity with the greater complexity of move- ment in tlie neck, which, as the immediate support of the head, has to assume so many different positions. The spinous process of the lowest cervical vertebra resembles a dorsal spine, being long, strong, somewhat oblique, im- bricated, not bifurcated, and above all very prominent, so that this vertebra has received the name of the prominent vertebra, figs. 6, 26, (vertebra prominens); it gives attachment, not only to muscles, but also to the liga- mentum nucha}. The transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, figs. 32, 33, are long, thin, and pointed, so as to afford surface and leverage for the powerful muscles attached to them in front, at their apices, and behind. They project not quite laterally, but outwards and a little backwards, and thus increase the space for the abdominal viscera. They are usually said to be horizontal in direction, but this is true only in regard to the middle vertebra; for the two transverse processes of the fifth, and those of the fourth, incline upwards, following the line of the corresponding parts of the sacrum and of the crests of the ilia; whilst those of the second and first vertebrae incline slightly downwards, obeying, as it were, the line of the transverse processes of the lowest dorsal vertebrae and the ribs, figs. 26, 27. These parts, indeed, exhibit a mutual relation as to position, which permits a greater freedom of lateral inclination in the loins; for, when the trunk is bent over to one side, the transverse processes of the lower and upper lumbar vertebrae approach that of the middle one ; whereas, if these processes had been horizontal, even a slight lateral inclination of the trunk would have brought them speedily into contact with the iliac crest on the one hand, or with the last rib on the other. The transverse processes of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, are longer than the rest, but those of the fifth are very short and broad for the attachment of the strong ilio-lumbar ligaments, which connect this vertebra with the pelvis. At the back of the arches of all the lumbar vertebrae, near the roots of the transverse processes, are four small tubercles, two superior and two inferior, to which certain spinal muscles are attached. In the dorsal region, figs. 30, 31, the transverse processes are especially modified, to suit the presence of ribs in this part of the trunk ; they are very strong-, being both longer and thicker than in the lumbar region, yet, as they do not project directly sideways, but outwards, backwards, and slightly upwards, their length is not so obvious when they are viewed from behind; moreover, they are enlarged or clubbed at their ends, on the fore part of each of which, is a small shallow facet, for articulation with the tuberosity of a rib. The transverse processes of the twelfth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae are shorter, and have no facets at their apices. Near their roots, they present small tubercles similar to, but less developed than those found in the lumbar region. The