159 THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM. cerebrum; yet it may occur, that, owing to an unusual development of the superciliary eminences and supra-orbital arches, a visibly slanting forehead may conceal a large frontal cerebral lobe; or this may even, in some cases, be, as it were, pushed back, though not reduced in size. The frontal eminences not only vary very much in different individuals, but, in opposi- tion to the law of symmetry, are often unequally developed on the two sides. This is also true of the parietal and occipital bones. In early life, the two halves of the frontal bone are distinct, each having its own ossific centre; but, in the process of growth, these meet along the middle line, and there form a vertical serrated junction, which commonly becomes completely obliterated, its seat being sometimes indicated by a slight median ridge. In a certain number of cases, traces of it remain throughout life. The posterior convex border of the frontal bone joins the two parietal bones ; it is also connected in the temporal fossa, on each side, with a small portion of the sphenoid bone. Besides the two temporal muscles, which partly cover the sides of the frontal bones, the orbicular muscles of the eyelids, and the corrugators of the eyebrows, are attached near the margins of the orbits. The fore-part of the bone is covered by the frontal portion of the right and left occipito-frontales muscles, the expanded aponeurosis of which overlies the upper part of the bone. The Temporal Bones.—These bones, figs. 61, 62, 63, T, two in number, and symmetrical, are situated on the sides of the cranium, at and behind the temples, where they fill up a semi-circular space left between the occipital, parietal and sphenoid bones; they, also, project obliquely inwards and forwards, into the base of the cranium ; moreover, they give off one process, which descends behind the ear, and another, which passes forwards towards the cheek. The shape of each temporal bone is, therefore, very complicated. It consists of four parts, named the petrous, squamous, mastoid, and zygomatic portions, which meet, around an oval aperture, the external auditory foramen, figs. 61, 62, u, leading into a canal named the external auditory meatus, or ear passage. This canal penetrates deeply into the petrous portion of the temporal bone, so named, from its hardness {irsTpa, a rock), which passes, in the form of a long narrow wedge, into the base of the skull, fig. 61, pt, where it fits closely in, between the occipital and sphenoid bones, and contains the essential parts of the organ of hearing, to which the meatus leads. The opening of the meatus is surrounded by a bony lip, the lower end of which is named the auditory process; to this, the cartilage of the external ear is firmly attached. Beneath and to the inner