10 INTRODUCTION. the artist and anatomist have met in the same person, the artist himself having dissected, or the anatomist having been his own draughtsman. Two questions arise here for discussion: namely, wliicli has profited more, anatomy or art, from their prolonged co-operation ; and, what is the effect of a knowledge of anatomy upon art ? As to the first, every anatomist will gladly admit the advantages con- ferred upon his science, by a faithful and permanent transcription of the innumerable details of organic form and structure, which it is his vocation to discover and explain. Words, without illustrations, would have utterly failed to keep the accumulating knowledge in memory or in use. The definite record of a single fact may serve as the starting-point of fi'esh discovery; whilst the spread of accurate knowledge, by means of the pencil, may lead to the creation of new centres of observation and research. Hence, by the absence of anatomical illustrations, the precision, diffusion and advance of anatomical science would have been restricted. Whether art has gained as much in return, is a question, on which opposite opinions have been entertained, and it is not difficult to find arguments by which to sustain either. Appealing to the supposed, and, it must be admitted, the possible ignorance of the ancients as regards the anatomy of man, some have regarded a scientific knowledge of this science, as needless; others, appealing to tlie disastrous effects of a possession of that knowledge by certain moderns, declare their belief in its positively evil influence. Now it is idle, for it is too late, to appeal to the example of the ancients. If they studied anatomy in a practical manner, it may be a heresy to say it, but it is a truth, that they not unfrequently violated, or, at least, departed from its strict teachings; and, if they did not, it is certainly marvellous how much of correct anatomical detail may be traced in their surface work. But, whether they did or not, practically, since the revival of art, the moderns have labom-ed to acquire more and more exact anatomical knowledge of the human, and animal, frame; and, art cannot again be divorced from anatomy. The effort now should be to make the latter of real utility to the former. The value of a knowledge of anatomy on the part of an artist, may be over-rated; from insufficiency, rather than proficiency of acquirement, it has sometimes been a snare ; to some, it has proved absolutely hurtful. But it need not be paraded, obtruded, or misemployed. It should be the artist's help, not his hindrance. It must not be allowed to become the trick of a school, the basis of a conventional method, or the substitute for a knowledge of the living figure. A placid generalisation of form, a smooth negation of underlying structural details, are compatible with a certain amoimt of beauty, sentiment and grace, and are preferable to bringing such details too near to the surface represented, and too plainly into view. The eye of the educated