211 THE JOINTS OF THE LOWER LLAIB. The Tarso-metatarsal Joints. Of these glidiag joints, figs. 77 to 80, the first and largest, belonging to the great toe, figs. 79, 80, is a separate joint, held together by its capsule, by a broad, thin dorsal ligament, and by a stronger plantar ligament. The second tarso-metatarsal articulation, very complicated, has three dorsal ligaments, one from the second metatarsal to each cuneiform bone, that to the middle one being double; a very strong longitudinal plantar ligament, fixed to the middle cuneiform bone ; and two lateral interosseous ligaments, attached to the' internal and external cunei- form bones. The third tarso-metatarsal joint, continuous with the second, also has a thin dorsal ligament, a thick plantar ligament, and an inter- osseous ligament connecting it with the external cuneiform bone. The fourth and fifth of these articulations, fig. 78, constitute a common joint, the dorsal ligaments of which are relatively stronger than the plantar. Movements.—The movements at the bases of the second and third meta- tarsal bonep, are very slight; at the base of the fourth, the gliding is such as to permit an upward and downward, and a slight spreading movement; in the case of the fifth, it amounts to an imperfect flexion, accompanied by an oblique movement of adduction, whilst the opposite movement of extension, with abduction, is also possible. The metatarsal bone of the great toe glides slightly sideways, but scarcely at all upwards and downwards ; so that, whilst it serves to widen the foot by spreading this a little, it is well adapted to bear vertical strains. A sort of forced rotation also takes place in this and in the fifth tarso-metatarsal joint. The Tarsal Joints.—The gliding joints formed between the five tarsal bones situated in front of the transverse joint of the tarsus, namely, those between the cuboid and the three cuneiform bones, and between these latter and the scaphoid bone, the last sometimes also articulating with the cuboid, are held together by strong dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments, figs. 78, 79, which help to maintain the transverse arch of the foot. The plantar ligaments between tlie scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones, are chiefly composed of offsets from the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. The five bones just mentioned, being separated by the transverse joint from the two remaining bones of the tarsus, namely, the os calcis and the astragalus, constitute an anterior tarsal segment, which may be con- veniently designated the pro-tarsus ; whilst the tvi^o bones constituting the hinder tarsal segment, might be termed the epi-tarsus. The slightly undulating, planiform calcaneo-ovhoid articulation, which forms the outer part of the transverse joint of the tarsus, has one dorsal liga- ment on the outer side of the joint, fig. 78, and anothev dorsal or interosseous ligament passing backwards to the deep groove in the os calcis. It also has two very strong plantar ligaments, viz.: the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament, F 2