THE SKULL CONSIDERED AS A WHOLE. 173 backwards, but only gradually forwards. The lateral and upper surfaces of the ovoid cranium are characteristically smooth, as if it were well distended above and at the sides, as though filled out by its contents ; but it is un- even, and pierced by many openings below. This smoothness, however, is mainly due to the absence, from the two former situations, of any very prominent ridges or crests for the attachment of muscles, such as are found in the skulls of most mammalia. Seen from behind, the cranium presents the appearance of a vault or dome, springing from a flattened base, formed between the two mastoid processes of the temporal bones, and culminating in the parietal bones. In front, fig. 63, a similar, but much lower and narrower, dome is formed above the orbits, reaching as high as the coronal suture. At the sides, fig. 62, the curved profile commences at the plane of the foramen magnum, runs backwards beneath the inferior, and then behind the superior occipital regions, passing over the occipital protuberance; it continues over the posterior flattened portion of the parietals, next along the curved vertex formed by the upper surfaces of the parietals, and then finishes by the profile line of the frontal bone, which at first convex, becomes usually a little hollowed and slanting as it descends, again becomes convex opposite the frontal sinuses, and then sinks over the glabella, into the depression or indentation found above and at the root of the nose. From that point, the base line of the cranium proper slants obliquely backwards and downwards, at first gently and then more abruptly, passing a little below the external auditory opening, to the plane of the foramen magnum, from which the profile was traced. The base of the cranium, which is bounded behind, and, for a short distance, at each side, by the superior curved line of the occipital bone, by the borders of the mastoid process of the temporal bone and by the under margin of the external auditory meatus, and which is then concealed by the lower jaw and other bones of the face, is so completely covered by the muscles of the back and sides of the neck and by other soft parts, as well as by the upper part of the spine, that it nowhere directly influences the external form. But, above the boundary line of the base, that is, behind, at the sides, on the vertex, and in front, the cranial forms are more or less plainly revealed upon the surface of the living head. An easily recognisable central point on the side of the cranium, is the external auditory meatus; it indicates the position of the cartilage of the ear, the little projecting lid on the fore-part of which, named the tragus, precisely covers the external meatus. Below and behind this meatus, is the broad, outer, subcutaneous surface of the mastoid process, which may always be felt, and is frequently apparent behind the ear. Immediately in front of, but a little higher than, the auditory meatus, the zygomatic process may be felt beneath the skin, becoming more and more prominent, as it springs outwards, to form, with the malar bone, the zygomatic arch, which is completely subcutaneous. Above this, is the temporal fossa,