303 THE MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. gracilis assists in flexing the leg, and in adducting the thigh ; it also rotates the tibia inwards, when the knee is bent. Acting from below, it flexes the pelvis, and supports it upon the head of the femur, on the inner side. The Flexor Group, figs. 142, 143, 146. This group, situated entirely at the back of the thigh, consists of the semi-membranosus, and semi- tendinosus on the inner, and of the biceps on the outer side. Semi-membranosus, figs. 142, 143, Overlaid by the semi-tendinosus and the biceps, but partially superficial below, and also along its inner border, except for a short distance above, where it is covered by the gluteus maximus ; long, and flat, though thick, its middle part fleshy, but composed above of a flattened, membrane-like, deep tendon, and below of a similar and narrower tendon appearing on its inner border ; vertical, behind the adductor magnus and the gracilis, its lower part forming the upper and inner boundary of the popliteal space or ham, its tendon constituting the principal inner hamstring. Back of the tuberosity of the ischium, under cover of the semi-tendinosus and biceps back of the internal tuberosity of the tibia. The tendon of insertion passes beneath the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint, is connected, through that ligament, with the internal semi-lunar cartilage, and gives off a strong reflected band, which forms a chief part of the posterior ligament of the joint. This muscle flexes the leg upon the thigh, and then extends the thigh backwards on the pelvis; when the knee is bent, it rotates the tibia inwards. Acting from below, it supports the knee behind, and also draws the pelvis backwards, and helps to sustain it in the standing posture. Semi-tendinosus, figs. 142, 143, Superficial, except above, where it is covered by the gluteus maximus; flattened above, tapering below, its flbres ending gradually and obliquely, from about the middle of the thigh, upon a very long tendon, which first appears on the hinder and inner part of the muscle, of which it forms, as the name implies, about one half; nearly vertical upon the semi-membranosus, at first connected with, and then in contact with the biceps, afterwards separated from it, to assist in forming the inner ham- string. Back of the tuberosity of the ischium, together with the long head of the biceps .inner surface of the upper part of the tibia, below its internal tuberosity. Its tendon of insertion curves gently forwards, behind that of the gracilis, rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and is connected with the fascia of the leg. Its actions are similar to those of the semi-membranosus, but it rotates the leg inwards more effectually. Both muscles co-operate, in this respect, with the popliteus, gracilis, and sartorius. Biceps cruris, figs. 143, 146, 3^", Superficial, except above, where it is covered by the gluteus maximus ; double headed, its long head, of an elegant fusiform shape, its short head, broad above, tapering, and penniform below, its strong straight common tendon of insertion, appearing