48 THE BONES. svliieh connects the two bones; it ends below in a small, triangular, rough surface for the attachment of an interosseous ligament, beyond which, the bone becomes smooth and usually covered with cartilage, to form a small facet for articulation with the fibida. The internal border, rounded above and below, bnt sharper in the middle of the bone, extends from the back of the so-called internal tuberosity to the back of the internal ankle, and gives partial insertion to the popliteus muscle, and partial origin to the solens muscle; it corresponds with the long waved furrow seen between the sub- cutaneous part of the tibia, and the muscles of the calf. The anterior edge, fig. 13, the most elevated, constitutes the crest of the tibia, which, consist- ing of compact tissue only, adds greatl}' to the strength of the bone ; it forms, throughout nearly tliree-fourths of the length of the tibia, the sharp shin, so easily felt under the skin. When traced upwards, this edge curves outwards to the outer side of a marked eminence to be presently described, named the anterior tuherosity of the tibia, and becomes lost on the outer side of the expanded head of the bone. Below, in the lower fourth of the bone, it subsides or is effaced ; or, it may be described as becoming rounded, turning inwards, and forming a slightly marked ridge, between the anterior and the internal surfaces of the lower part of the bone. Seen from the front, this sharp an- terior edge of the shin bone appears waved, being concave towards the fibula, in its upper half, as if yielding to the growth by pressure of the belly of the tibialis anticus muscle, thus affording space for it, and harmonising with its convex surface. Viewed from the inner side, fig. 16, this edge, immediately below the anterior tuberosity, is concave, but along the greater length of the bone, it is gently convex or prominent, and then subsides, so that the profile of the bone becomes again slightly concave. The upper concavity, during life, is filled by the bulging of the tibialis anticus, which, and not the tibia, determines the profile of the leg in well-made and well-nourished persons. In the emaciated condition, it is the bone which governs the im- poverished outline. The lower concavity is obliterated by the thick tendon of the tibialis anticus. The waving line of this edge is I'eadily recognised as the anterior border of the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, in front and to the outer side of which, are the muscles situated between this bone and the fibula. The louver extremity of the tibia, smaller than the upper one, is expanded chiefly in the transverse direction, so that it presents broader anterior and pos- terior surfaces, and narrower outer and inner ones. Its outer surface is wider than the inner one ; it presents a deep triangular depression, the upper part of which forms a rough excavation for the reception of a part of the fibula, which is here very closely bound to it by ligaments, whilst the lower part is, for a short space, smooth and articular, corresponding with a small opposed articular por- tion of the fibula. The anterior surface, a continuation of the outer surface, smooth and convex for the support of the extensor tendons, is bevelled off, so as