THE JOINTS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 213 78, extending from the fore part of the deep groove on the os calcis, to the outer side of the scaphoid bone, and by a much stronger 'plantar ligament, of very special structure, the inferim^ calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, fig. 80 f ; this is a broad, thick band, which passes from the fore part of the susten- taculum tali of the os calcis, beneath the head of the astragalus, which rests upon it, to the imder surface of the scaphoid bone, as far forwards as the tuberosity, and also upwards on the inner side of the bone, iig. 79, The upper surface of this ligament, covered by synovial membrane, enters into the astragalo-scaphoid joint, and partly supports the head of the astragalus; in its substance, is found some fibro-cartilage, and its yellowish hue and marked elasticity, indicate the existence in it, of an admixture of yellow elastic tissue. Fig. 80.—Longitudinal section tlirough all the joints along the Inner bonier of the Foot, and through the middle of the Ankle Joint, f, Inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. *, In- terosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament. 9', Tendon of tibialis posticus muscle. The astragalo-calcaneal articulation, the pecvdiar double gliding joint, formed between the upper surface of the os calcis and the under surface of the astragalus, is chiefly held together by a very strong transverse interosseous ligament, figs. 80, 81, 82, *, which occupies the sinus pedis, formed by the grooves on the two bones, between their articular facets, fig. 11. There are also slight internal, posterior' and external ligaments; but the interosseous one is thick, more than an inch wide from side to side, and composed of fibres, which spread upwards in three directions, so as better to resist sti-ains. The part of the joint in front of the ligament, is continuous with the astragalo- scaphoid joint. Movements.— Whilst the tarsal articulations, generally, impart elasticity and resisting power to the foot, especially to its transverse and longitudinal arches, they also endow it with flexibility, so that its curvatures may be more or less continually changed. Thus, under pressure, the tarsal arches become