THE MUSCLES. 338 muscle middle impression on the greater tuberosity of the humerus, by a tendon, which appears on the surface of the muscle, adheres to the capsule of the joint, and unites with the tendons of the supra-spinatus and teres minor muscles. This muscle rotates the humerus outwards, when the bone is vertical; but carries it backwards, when it is raised. Teres minor, figs. 158, 167, Superficial, in its middle part, between the deltoid, infra-spinatus and teres major, but deep at both ends; narrow, and fusiform; oblique upwards and outwards, from the lower part of the scapula to the back of the shoulder. Upper two-thirds of the hinder part of the anterior border of the scapula, and intermuscular septa between it and the infra-spinatus and teres major lowermost of the three impressions on the greater tuberosity of the humerus, by a thick tendon, adherent to the capsule of the joint, and, by a few fleshy fasciculi, below the tendon. It rotates the humerus outwards, when that bone is in a dependent position ; when the arm is raised, it assists in maintaining the limb in that direction, and in drawing it backwards. The four rotator muscles just described, obviously perform all those shorter and minor adjusting movements of the humerus in the glenoid cavity, which are incessantly required in the manifold uses of the upper limb; they are the capsular muscles, already alluded to (p. 234), which protect, strengthen and support the shoulder-joint, and serve to maintain the head of the bone in due contact with the shallow glenoid cup; they also draw the capsule in various directions out of harm's way, in the action of the joint. Teres major, figs. 158, 167, Superficial in the greater part of its extent, but partly embraced by the latissimus dorsi below, and crossed, above, by the long head of the triceps muscle of the arm; narrow, thick, and some- what flattened, composed of longitudinal fasciculi ending on a flat tendon ; oblique upwards and outwards, from the lower angle of the scapula, along the binder border of the axilla, which is principally formed by it, and then in front of the long head of the triceps, to reach the shaft of the humerus. Eough quadrangular surface on the back of the inferior angle of the scapula, axillary margin of the bone, and adjacent intermuscular septa inner lip of the bicipital groove of the humerus, by its flat tendon. The teres major draws the raised arm down to the side, and also carries it backwards, and rotates the humerus inwards. The Superficial Dorsal Group, figs. 159,160, 167.—This includes the two remarkably broad and almost entirely superficial muscles of the back and neck, which cover the dorsal aspect of the trunk in nearly its whole extent, from the pelvic girdle to the shoulder-girdle, and, beyond that, to the head. By their insertions and actions, however, one is a muscle of the shoulder-girdle, and the other of the upper limb. They are the latissimus dorsi and the trapezius.