8 INTRODUCTION. 14tli century, human dissections began to be regularly practised by Mondini of Bologna (1315). It is interesting to remember that the subsequent in- vention of engraving on wood, about the commencement of the 15th century (1400-1420), and that of its still more potent offspring, printing, rendered it, henceforth, easy to record and diffuse the results of anatomical research. Artists and anatomists soon became intimately associated in tlieir lives and labours. Community of objects to be attained, and a growing sympathy, led to frequent and earnest co-operation. Eacli became, in a large measure, essential to the other; by progressive stages, more and more perfect know- ledge, and better and better illustrations, not only of the facts of pure anatomy, but of tliose wliich belong to artistic anatomy, came to prevail; and, there has never been wanting, at least since the latter part of the 16th century, a succession of useful guides in this interesting study. The amount of time and wealth of talent which have been expended on the study of anatomy as applied to art, are sufficiently proved by the History of Anatomical Illustrations, compiled by Ludwig Choulant.^ This author furnishes us with a list of works, nearly all of them illustrated, devoted especially to art-anatomy, amounting in number to 62, and ranging, in date of publication, from 1585 to 1850. Of tins number, three, including the very earliest work, were published in Spanish,—five in English,—seven belong to the Netherlands,—twelve are in Italian,—sixteen appeared in Germany,—and, lastly, nineteen in France. To this, it must be added, that anatomical statuettes, or statues, displaying the muscles of the body, were first modelled and cast, in Spain, and afterwards in Italy, Germany, France, and England. Since 1850, two new anatomical figures, and a few special treatises on art-anatomy have been published on tlie Continent. But any retrospect as to the past relations of anatomy to art, would be very incomplete, were it limited to the record of actual publications ; for some of the greatest artists of all countries, especially, however, those of the Italian schools, have devoted themselves, more or less energetically, to the subject of human anatomy, without having left any proof of their labours, in the shape of books or plates. Some evidence, in the form of sketches and of finished drawings, they have left behind, of which a few have since been engraved. Such drawings of the bones and muscle?, would doubtless have been used in their studios, academies, and schools, and would serve as daily means of instruction, and as examples to be -copied or followed, by successive generations of pupils. In this way, a large amount of gradually acquired knowledge, would be handed down, even before the arts of wood-cutting and copper-plate engraving came to aid in its preservation and diffusion. It ' (feschickte iind B[hl>o(irai)k\c dcr Anatumischeii Abbildvnr/, &c. Von Dr. Lndwig Choulfint, &c. Leipzig-, 1852.