205 THE MOVEABLE JOINTS. ments are peculiar and limited ; either the composite ring rotates around the pivot, or the pivot turns round within the ring. There are only two of these rotatory joints in the body, viz.: the articula- tion between the anterior arch of the atlas and the odontoid process of the axis, and the joint between the side of the head of the radius and the side of the upper end of the ulna. In the joint between the axis and the atlas, the bony and ligamentous ring rotates around the osseous pivot; in the joint between the radius and ulna, the osseous pivot moves within the bony and ligamentous ring. Surface-forms, dependent on, or modified by, the Joints. The ligaments, being for the most part deeply seated, scarcely ever in- dividually influence the outward form. The few instances in which they do so, will be mentioned in their proper place; but they everywhere round off or smooth the bony prominences which do determine the forms in the immediate neighbourhood of the joints, constituting, outside the periosteum, the first clothing of the skeleton in those situations. The effect of tlie action of the different moveable joints, in producing changes in the position of parts, is widely diflferent. Thus, in the planiform joints, it is usually comparatively slight, though still very important, as in the tarsus and the carpus ; but, sometimes, it is more considerable, as in the case of the ribs; or it may be still greater as at the joints between the clavicles and the sternum. In the hinge joints, the effect is very remarkable, allow- ing, for example, complete folding and straightening of the knee and elbow. In the ball-and-socket joints, however, it is the greatest, as noticeable at the hip, but especially at the shoulder, permitting, there, of a circular sweep of the entire upper limb. In the rolling joints, on the other hand, the results are very peculiar and precise, as in the turning of the head upon the neck, and in the singular movements of pronation and supination of the radius, and, with it, of the hand, by which the utility of the latter is so much increased. The limitation of these movements, supposing sufficient force to be exer- cised in their production, is, obviously, ultimately due to the ligaments ; and it is equally evident that the ligaments on one aspect, or one side of the axis of motion of a joint, must arrest the movement in the opposite direction. But, in hinge joints especially, the movement of extension is checked by the flexor muscles and their tendons, and the movement of flexion by the extensor muscles and their tendons. Sometimes the movement of flexion is ordinarily limited by the approximation of the soft parts, supported, of course, by the bones, as occurs in the case of the knee and hip joint, the shoulder joint and elbow, and of those of the fingers and thumb. It is usually stated that, as regards the ankle and hip joints, the shoulder, and especially the elbow, certain