THE MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 367 terminate obliquely on its tendon, about the middle of the fore-arm. It forms the outer margin of the triangular hollow, in front of the bend of the elbow. This muscle acts slightly as a supinator, most so, when the fore-arm is flexed at the elbow; but it is, evidently, a powerful adjuvant flexor of the elbow joint, acting, however, after the other flexors have commenced to bend the elbow. It is used in carrying weights, when the fore-arm is semi-flexed ; it also serves, then, to main- tain the fore-arm in the mid-position be- tween supination and pronation, that is, with the thumb uppermost. Extensor carpi radialis longior, figs. 176, 177, 183, 184, 7' Superficial, ex- cept where partly overlapped, above, by the long supinator, and lower down, where it is crossed by the extensors of the thumb; ifusiform, ending suddenly at the upper third of the fore-arm, in a flat tendon ; longi- tudinal along the outer side of the fore-arm, to the back of the carpus and metacarpus, its tendon passing beneath the posterior annular ligament, in a groove on the back of the radius. Lower third of the epi-con- dyloid ridge of the humerus, and external in- termuscular septum base of the meta- carpal bone of the index finger. This muscle not only extends the wrist, but abducts the hand. It may help to flex, and to steady, or fix the elbow joint. Extensor carpi radialis brevior, figs. 176, 177, 183, 184, ^2/, Fartlj super- ficial, between the last-named muscle and the common extensor of the fingers, but crossed, lower down, by the extensors of the thumb; shorter, as its name implies, but also wider and thicker than the extensor longior, its fasciculi ending gradually on the tendon of insertion, which passes down, together with that of the extensor longior, in the same groove on the radius, and through the same compartment in the posterior annular ligament. External condyle of the humerus, by a tendon common to it and the adjacent muscles, and capsule of the elbow joint base of the Fig. 175.—Short Supinator, and Ex- tensors of the Thumb and Index Finger. m