THE BONES. 70 front and above by the pubic bone, is oval in shape. It is called obturator, because it is closed by a membrane, the obturator membrane {obturo, I stop up); more correctly, the membrane is the obturator, the foramen is obturated. The term thyroid {Ovpsos, a shield ; slhos, form) refers to the shape of the aper- ture. Parts of the margins of this foramen, both on its outer and inner aspects, and also the two surfaces of the membrane, give origin to the external and in- ternal obturator muscles. On the outer and anterior aspect of the body of the ischium, beneath the acetabulum and above the tuberosity, is a slightly excavated surface, ending in a groove for the passage of the former muscle and its tendon ; whilst another deep groove, extends from the slightly excavated inner surface of the bone to its outer border, where, above the tuberosity but beneath a prominent process, named the spine or spinous process of the ischium, it transmits the divided tendons of the latter muscle, the surface over which these pass being channeled and, in the recent state, covered with cartilage. The spine of the ischium is a sharp, flat and pointed eminence, which projects downwards, inwards and backwards. Above it, the inner border of the hinder surface of the ischium, assists in forming greater sacro-sciatic notch ; whilst below it, between it and the tuberosity, is the lesser sciatic notch. To this spine is attached the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and to the rough elevated inner border of the tuberosity, the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Besides certain muscles, which help to close the outlet of the pelvis, the spine gives origin to the superior gemellus muscle, the inferior gemellus arising from the upper and hinder part of the tuberosity. To the lower of two impressions on the broad roughened hinder surface of this tuberosity, is attached the common origin of the semitendinosus and biceps muscles ; that of the semi- membranosus muscle, is fixed to the higher and more external impression on the upper and outer part of this process; the quadratus femoris arises from its outer lip or border; the lower part of this border, the adjacent under surface, and also the under border of the entire length of the ramus, afford the chief surface of origin of the adductor magnus. Between the places of origin of these several muscles, a certain portion of the very lowest part of the tuberosity remains free, but it is overlapped by the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle in the standing position, although it escapes from below the muscle in the act of sitting. The inner surface of the ischium, turned towards the pelvic cavity, is slightly excavated and smooth, and is partly occupied, as already mentioned, by the obturator internus muscle. The Os Pubis.—The pubic portion of the innominate bone, os pubis, pubic bone, or pubes, figs. 24, 27, is prolonged from the acetabulum, forwards inwards, and a little downwards, as a rapidly and much contracted three- sided column, named the horizontal ramus or branch of the pubic bone, also commonly named tlie body of the pubes ; strictly speaking, in the standing