THE BONES. 60 side to side, to form the broad masses named the external and internal condyles, which project backwards from the bone, and rest below upon the head of the tibia, the two semilunar interarticular cartilages intervening. Between these condyles is a smooth depression in front, which leads into a deep cavity behind, named the intercondyloid notch or fossa. The internal condyle is longer by more than half an inch than the external one, so that, if the thigh bone be suspended vertically, the inner condyle will first touch a horizontal plane; or again, if both condyles are made to rest together on such a plane, the shaft of the bone becomes directed, as in the skeleton, upwards and outwards. The greater length of the internal condyle serves to give a horizontal direction to the plane of the lower end of the inwardly inclined femur, so that it rests securely on the horizontally disposed articular surface of the tibia. If the condyles were of equal length, the upper surface of the tibia must have been sloped outwards and downwards to meet them, and the joint would thus have been weakened by the constant tendency of the lower end of the femur to be displaced outwards; the ligaments would have been unable to resist so continuous a strain. The increased length of the inner condyle, bears a relation to the degree of obliquity of the shaft of the bone. The inner condyle is not only longer than the outer one, but it is narrower, and more prominent internally, that is, it projects much more away from the axis of the shaft of the bone. The outer condyle is not merely broader, and flatter at the side, but it is deeper from before backwards than the internal condyle, so that its anterior border is more prominent than that of the latter, figs. 22, 23 ; it is also placed more directly beneath the shaft of the bone, fig. 19. If the outline of the two condyles be studied, eacli from its own side, it will be found that they differ in the curva- ture of their lower borders. That of the inner condyle, fig. 23, is shallower, more gentle, and more even ; that of the outer condyle is deeper, more abrupt, and apparently uneven or notched below, fig. 22. This notch indicates the existence of a depression on the inferior articular surface, for the lodgment of the anterior extremity of the corresponding interarticular fibro-cartilage, whereas, on the inner condyle, the corresponding interarticular cartilage reaches much further forwards, and requires a much slighter depression, into which it may be received. The articular surface at the lower end of the femur, is by far the largest in the body ; it is much larger than that formed by the two articular facets on the head of the tibia, even together with that on the back of the patella, with which it enters into the formation of the knee-joint. It presents an irregular horse-shoe shape, having its open ends directed back- wards ; it is turned and continued upwards a certain distance, on both the anterior and posterior aspects of the bone. Its fore part is deeply grooved from side to side, to form the so-called trochlea or pulley, fig. 19, on which the hinder surface of the patella rests. The outer inclined part of