394 THE MUSCLES. seated intrinsic muscles, by which their several movements and actions are per- formed ; one pair of small laryngeal muscles, the crico-thyroid, is seen lying on the cricoid cartilage in figs. 188, 189, and also in fig. 190, ct; one of the con- strictor muscles, of the pharynx, co, is also shown in fig. 190. But it is necessary to limit one's attention to those muscles only, which affect the surface-forms, namely, the depressor and elevator groups, which act upon the moveable hyoid and laryngeal apparatus, either lowering or raising them in the neck. The Depressor Group, figs. 186, 187, 193.—This includes the sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. Sterno-thyroideus, 190, ^. Deep-seated, and nearly covered; flat, band- like, having a tendinous intersection across its lower part; nearly vertical. Back of the upper piece of the sternum, and first, or first and second costal cartilages -an oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. It depresses not only the larynx, but, through it, the hyoid apparatus generally, and the tongue with it. Thyro-hyoideus, &gs. \8Q, 187, 190, 193, ^ Partly superficial, above; short, flat, quadrilateral; vertical, continuous upwards from the last muscle. Oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage body and greater cornu of hyoid bone. If the larynx be held down by the sterno-thyroid, then the thyro-hyoid depresses the hyoid bone ; but if the hyoid bone be held up, then this muscle elevates the larynx behind and within the hyoid arch, as always occm's in swallowing, during which act, the larynx may be seen to ascend suddenly. By this movement, the epiglottis is lifted against the root of the tongue, and so is pressed back over the glottis, as the food descends. Sterno-hyoideus, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial, except below, where it is placed behind the sternum, clavicle, and sterno-mastoid muscle; flat, narrow, ribbon-shaped, presenting usually a small tendinous intersection ; upwards and a little inwards. Back of the upper piece of the sternum, higher up than the sterno-thyroid, cartilage of the first rib, and, sometimes, the clavicle lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. This muscle touches its fellow muscle along the middle line ; but they diverge slightly opposite to the Pomum Adami, and still more widely near the sternum. It depresses the hyoid bone. Omo-hyoideus, figs. 186, 187, 193, ^ Successively concealed, super- ficial, and concealed; consists of two fleshy portions, inferior and superior, joined by a small round tendon of variable length and size; the inferior portion, ^, inclined forwards, inwards and slightly upwards, across the lower part of the neck, the superior portion, almost vertical, but inclined slightly forwards and inwards, the two portions forming an obtuse angle, at the