THE IXFLUEXCE OF THE MUSCLES OX FORM. 261 forwards, as shown in the sectional view G', to a strong broad tendon ; this is continuous with the median tendon above described, and ends below, by tapering-, and joining the equally tapering tendon of the soleus muscle situated beneath it. The muscular fasciculi of the gastrocnemius form two fleshy bellies, united along the middle of the muscle, of unequal length, breadth and thickness, both ending on the tendon in curved borders; whilst the tendon itself has unequally curved sides. This is the most complex single muscle in the body; it serves well to illustrate the general proposition already laid down, that the superficial muscles display more highly finished forms, as compared with the more simply shaped, deep-seated muscles. In reference to this point, also, it will be observed that, of the series of muscles shown in fig. 120, those marked A, Q, M, and R', are deep-seated muscles, whilst those marked B, T, P", D, R", and G, are superficial. In fig. 147, are shown the deepest vertebral muscles, which may be contrasted with fig. 167, representing the superficial muscles of the back. Doubtless, every line and surface of a muscle, whether simple or com- plicated, is dependent on a form and structure, necessitated by and adapted to certain mechanical uses, according as these are themselves, simple or complex. Quantities of contractile tissue indicate seats and lines of force and work. But it is obvious that the resulting forms have also an aesthetic import, inasmuch as in superficial muscles, which produce so many of the re- cognisable surface-forms of the body, they are more beautifully modelled than in the deeper ones, which do not directly affect those forms. It has to be re- marked, in conclusion, that no individual muscle is symmetrical in itself; for its ends, sides, and surfaces are always unequal in form. Hence each limb is also unsymmetrical, as regards its different aspects. The influence of the muscles on the surface-forms becomes still more striking, when such swiftly contracting and as swiftly relaxing organs are put in action; for this heightens their effect, and so multiplies the changes of form which they undergo, that these become almost endless. They are, indeed, capable of being observed better than they can be described, and they require the lifetime of the artist practically to master. If the bones furnish examples of ' still life,' the muscles illustrate ' life in motion;' the bones are inanimate, though not dead, the muscles are truly ' quick.' Every living muscle may be in a state of perfect rest, as when the body is reclining and the limbs are in attitudes of repose, or in the recumbent posture, or during sleep, though, even then, the living muscular substance is in a condition of tonic contraction, a gentle form of incessant action, wrongly attributed to a separate quality, designated muscular tonicity, but which is a part of their healthy contractility. During the waking state, a muscle may be in various degrees of tension, owing to the resistance of other muscles, or to weight; or again, it may be relaxed beyond its ordinary condition during rest, as when it yields or is mechanically stretched, to permit the employment of antagonist