THE JOINTS. 208 in the upper limb, which is suspended from the trunk, the influence of mus- cular action must relatively preponderate. The more simple form of the articular surfaces, in the joint at the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, in the ankle and in the knee, illustrates the former condition; the more complex surfaces, in the joint at the root of the thumb, in the wrist and in the elbow, exemplify the latter. The movements of the lower limb are alter- nately free and forced, those of the upper limb are more habitually free. Table of the Joints, their Names and Classification. The names of the particular joints, as is shown in this table, are usually derived from those of the bones which enter into their formation. Immoveable Joints, or Synarthroses. Sutures, cranial and faciaL Costo-chondral. Chondro-sternal, of first rib. Mixed Joints, or Amphiarthrosbs. a. Without a synovial cavity. Intervertebral, of bodies. Sacro-lumbar „ Sacral and coccygeal „ Sternal. b. With an imperfect synovial cavity. Sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Pubic symphysis. Moveable Joints, or Diarthroses. n. Planiform Joints, or AHhrodia. Temporo-maxillary. Occipito-atlantal. Intervertebral, of articular processes. Sacro-lumbar „ „ Costo-vei tebral, costo-central. „ „ costo-transverse. Interchondral, of 6th to 9th rib cartilages. Chondro-sternal, of 2nd to 7th ribs. Sterno-clavicular. Acromio-clavicular. Kadio-ulnar, inferior. Moveable Joints.—continued. Carpal, except that of os magnum, with scaphoid and semi-lunar. Carpo-metacarpal. Tibio-fibular, superior and inferior. Tarsal, except astra^alo-scaphoid. Tarso-metatarsal. Metatarsal. h. Hinge Joints or Ginglymoid Joints. Elbow joint, humero-cubital. Phalangeal, of fingers and thumb. Knee joint, femoro-tibial. Ankle joint, tibia and fibula with astra- galus. Phalangeal of fingers and toes. c. Ball-a,nd-Socket Joints, or JEnarthrodia. Shoulder joint, scapulo-humeral. Wrist joint, radio-carpal. Carpal; os magnum with the scaphoid and semi-lunar. Carpo-metacarpal, of thumb. Metacarpo-phalangeal. Hip joint, coxo-femoral. Tarsal ; astragalo-scaphoid. Metatarso-phalangeal. d. Pivot Joints, or Diarthrodia rotatoria. Atlanto-axial. Kadio-ulnar, superior. THE PAKTICULAE JOINTS. After the explanations given in the preceding general account of the articulations, the movements proper to each joint, which, indeed, are suffi- ciently evident, do not require to be always specifically mentioned. The forms of the various articular surfaces, as well as the position and character of the roughened depressions or eminences, to which the several ligaments are