THE MOVEABLE JOINTS. 201 form, they, for the most part, do not permit any perceptible changes at in- dividual joints ; but when the effect is multiplied, as in the series of articu- lations between the bodies of the moveable vertebrae, it gives rise to consider- able changes of the outward form, by producing gentle curves over longer ranges of the bony framework. The Moveable Joints. The Moveable Joints or Diarthroses, are the most perfect, and the most moveable of all the articulations in the body. In them, as the prefix ' dia' implies (8ta, through), the severance of the surfaces of the bones, which enter into their formation, is complete, so that these are not joined, but are brought into relation with each other, by the close adaptation of their speci- ally-shaped, smooth articular ends. These ends are covered with cartilage or gristle, whilst the bones themselves are held together by a membranous capsule, which is smooth and moist on its internal surface, and is strength- ened externally by proper ligaments. Atmospheric pressure also aids in keeping the articular surfaces closely applied to each other; so also does the muscular force. The articular layer of a hone, forming its articular surface, is hard, smooth and destitute of pores; it is primitive bone, or ossified cartilage, very dif- ferent from other parts of the surfaces of bones, which, though compact, are porous for the transmission of blood vessels. On this, rests the plate of arti- cular cartilage, which differs from fibro-cartilage, in being a uniformly firm, elastic, highly flexible substance, of a bluish white or pearly hue. It is closely adherent to the bone, and is usually thickest, where the greatest weight or pressure has to be borne, so that, on the rounded heads of the bones, it is thicker in its centre and thinner at the margins, whereas, in hollow sockets, it is often the reverse. Its free surface is very smooth and highly polished. It not only forms an elastic pad, by which shock is deadened, but it enables the movements of the joints to be performed easily and smoothly. In certain moveable joints, for the better and safer performance of their respective motions, distinct inter-articular fibro-cartilages exist between the articular surfaces of the joint, as in the knee and wrist, in the articulation at the inner end of the collar-bone, and in that of the lower jaw. The capsule of a moveable joint is a thin, membranous tube, closed at each end, by being attached to the opposed bones, just beyond the borders of their articular surfaces ; it limits the joint, which, therefore, has a definite cavity, sometimes double, as when a perfect inter-articular cartilage exists. The cavities of all the moveable joints are lined, except over the articular cartilage at the ends of the bones, by a delicate membrane, which secretes a viscid fluid, vulgarly known as joint-oil, though it is not of an oily or greasy