148 THE BONES. shortest bones. The entire ring-finger, however, is as long as, and usually longer than, the entire fore-finger. As to the apparent length of the fingers, as indicated by the position of their tips when the hand is fully extended, this depends on a double condition, namely, on the length of tlie finger itself, and on that of the corresponding metacarpal bone, a point which has been generally overlooked in discussions of the question. In this way, although the middle finger is always not only the largest but the longest, and the little finger is the shortest, and, as a rule, the tip of the ring-finger reaches lower down than that of the index-finger, yet, in many cases, the latter projects beyond the former, owing, mainly, to the second metacarpal bone being of unusual length. The apparent lengths of these two fingers may vary in the two hands. The first phalanx of the thumb is longer than that of the little finger; the last phalanx is longer than that even of the middle finger; the great width of both is their special characteristic. The Hand as a Whole.—The bones of the hand are constructed and put together, so as to secure a combination of lightness, strength, elasticity, and grasping and holding power, with great mobility. The uses of the hand are singularly augmented by the pronation and supination movements of the radius, by the extreme movement of flexion at the elbow, and by the remark- able freedom of the shoulder joint. The lightness, the tapering form forwards, and the relatively smaller total size of the hand, as compared with the weight, increasing width forward, and great mass of the foot, are very striking. The slightness of the longi- tudinal and transverse25a^7?iar arches, compared with the arches of the foot, is also obvious. The hand measures only about one tenth, and the foot about a sixth part of the length of the entire skeleton. This diminution in size affects, however, only the hinder portion of the hand, that is, the carpus, the bones of which are all much smaller than those of the tarsus ; and, moreover, it is in the proximal part of the carpus, namely, in the semi-lunar and cuneiform bones, which represent the very large astragalus and the still larger os calcis, that the most marked relative diminution occurs ; the part of the hand, indeed, which corresponds with the heel, is almost suppressed. The small size of the carpus, as compared with the tarsus, is noticeable, not only in its comparative narrowness and thinness, but in its reduced length; for it occupies only about one-sixth part of the entire hand, whilst the tarsus comprises nearly one half the length of the foot. This leaves, as it were, more material to be disposed of in the construction of the middle and anterior parts of the hand. Of this, the metacarpus takes about two-fifths, and the phalanges, as measured on the middle or longest finger, about the remaining three-fifths; whereas, in the foot, the lengths of the middle and anterior parts, or metatarsal and phalangeal portions, are in the reverse ratio of three to