400 THE MUSCLES. The Muscles of the Head and Face. The muscles of the head and face, named cranial and facial, according to their situation upon the cranium or the face, pass, in some instances, as with the temporal muscle, and the pyramidalis nasi, from one region to another. Classified according to their action, they consist first, of the muscles of mastication, which move the lower jaw upon the upper one, the teeth, of course, being interposed, but, in this set, may be comprised a muscle of the cheek, which helps to keep the food between the teeth ; and, secondly, of the muscles of expression, so named because they act specially upon the features, which are the most mobile and significant organs of expression. But most of these muscles are also concerned in some other office, such as that of drinking, the reception of food into the mouth, whistling, singing, talking, or in the exercise of the senses of sight, smell, or taste ; and, again, it must be observed, that every muscle in the body, may become an organ of expression. Dividing the muscles of the head and face into suitable local groups, for the purposes of description, they include a masticatory, an epicranial, an auricular, an orbital or ocular, a palpebral, a nasal, and a labial group. The Masticatory Group, figs. 186, 187, 193.—This consists of the temporal, masseter, external and internal pterygoids, and buccinator muscles. Temporalis, figs. 187, 192, ^° Superficial above, but covered by the temporal fascia, the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle, two of the auricular muscles, the hairy scalp, and the skin over.the temple, deep-seated lower down, being covered by the zygoma, and the masseter muscle ; fan-shaped, wide and thin above, narrow and thicker below; its hindmost fasciculi almost horizontal, those next and beyond the middle of the muscle, oblique down- wards and forwards, the succeeding ones nearly vertical, the anterior fasciculi downwards and a little backwards, all converging to a broad, central, superficial and fan-shaped tendon, which descends under cover of the zygoma, fig. 192. Floor of the temporal fossa, which it covers, deep surface of the temporal fascia, which closes in that fossa inner surface and anterior border of the coronoid process of the lower jaw, from its apex down to near the last molar tooth. This muscle is connected with parts of the parietal, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid bones. It elevates the lower jaw, closes the teeth, and is the most powerful of the masticatory muscles. If the lower jaw is protruded, the hindmost part of this muscle can draw it back again. Masseter, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial, but overlaid by the parotid salivary gland, and crossed, in front, by the orbicularis palpebrarum, zygo- maticus major, and risorius muscles ; thick, flat, and quadrangular, consisting