140 THE BONES. articular surface of the unciform bone. Below the narrow part, or nech, of the bone, the outer side of the os magnum presents a rough surface, for the at- tachment of an interosseous ligament, and a flat, quadrangular facet, for articu- lation with the trapezoid bone. Lastly, the lower end of its body has three articular facets, one, median, and much the largest, indistinctly concavo- convex, for articulation with the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, and two others, lateral and much smaller, for articulation, respectively, with small portions of the bases of the second and fourth metacarpal bones. The rest of this comparatively large bone is non-articular, and more or less roughened behind, in front, and on its sides, for the attachment of ligaments. The posterior surface of the bone is broad, convex, and only slightly roughened ; whilst the anterior is much narrower, and presents a marked prominence for the attachment of strong, radiating ligamentous bands; it also gives origin to a portion of the inner head of the short flexor muscle of the thumb. The trapezoid bone, figs. 58, 59, the smallest of the second row, is the representative of the middle cuneiform bone, which is the smallest bone in the tarsus. It has four articular facets; namely, an upper one, quadrilateral and slightly concave, for the scaphoid; an inner slightly concave one, for the os magnum ; an outer slightly convex facet, for the trapezium ; and, lastly, a lower one, concave from behind forwards, but convex, or even obtusely ridged from side to side, for articulation with the greater part of the base of the second metacarpal bone. The posterior surface, broader than the anterior, convex, and roughened for the attachment of ligaments, usually presents a pointed process, which overlaps the middle of the base of the second metacarpal bone, where a notch is found to receive it; sometimes the inner angle of this surface touches the third metacarpal bone. The anterior surface, smaller, but also rough for ligaments, gives origin to a part of the inner head of the short flexor of the thumb. The trapezium, figs. 58, 59, less regular in shape than the trapezoid, is the outermost bone of the second carpal row ; it completes the radial border of the wrist, and supports the metacarpal bone of the thumb, in the same manner as its representative, the internal cuneiform bone of the foot, completes the tibial border of the tarsus, and supports the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It is placed a little in advance of the trapezoid bone, and just reaches, at its inner and lower border, the side of the base of the second metacarpal bone. The upper articular facet of the trapezium is concave, and is in contact with the scaphoid bone ; the internal surface is chiefly articulated with the trapezoid, by a large concave facet, but it also touches the base of the second metacarpal bone, by an additional narrow facet; the lower articular surface, for the support of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, is very peculiar, being distinctly saddle-shaped, that is, convex from behind forwards, but