387 MUSCLES OF THE NECK, HEAD, AND FACE. developed and marked by their characteristic central eminence, constitute unmistakeable evidence of a sensitive hand. The nails, which support these pulps at the back, should be broad, gently arched from side to side, and bounded by a closely fitting rim or matrix, crescentic behind and slightly divergent forwards at the sides ; they are figured by a delicately marked lunula at the root, especially visible in the thumb-nails. The nails, in fact, should neither be narrow, nor long, nor strongly curved, nor markedly almond- shaped, as it is termed; but they should maintain the breadth so character- istic of the human form, even to its finger-ends, as opposed to, and distin- guished from, the poor and narrow shape of the laterally compressed nails or claws, of many of the lower animals. The subcutaneous veins of the upper limb commence by short, straight branches, seen on the dorsum of the hand, running from the backs of the fingers, and then between the knuckles, not over them, to gain the dorsal venous arch, which crosses the back of the broad part of the hand. This arch, always festooned, and often interrupted, is placed nearer to the fingers than to the wrist, but it varies much in form and completeness, in different persons, and even on the right and left hands. From it, are given off longitudinal trunks, which unite into fewer and longer ones. Of these, some find their way, over the outer border of the fore-arm, especially one large one from the back of the thumb, to form the so-called radial veins; some turn round the inner border of the fore-arm, and form the ulnar veins ; and others ascend from the ball of the thumb and middle of the palm, to form the median veins. Having reached the front of the elbow, fig. 124, the three sets of veins coalesce, in a tolerably constant manner, so as, ultimately, to form two chief venous trunks ; one of these, on the outer side of the arm, named the cephalic vein, ascends near the outer border of the biceps muscle, and then along the intermuscular space between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, to disappear in the coracoid furrow, where it dips through the fascia to join the deep veins ; the other trunk, on the inner side of the arm, named the basilic vein, passes up near the inner border of the biceps, and pierces the fascia sooner, that is, about the middle of the arm, and so disappears from view. Table of the Muscles of the Neck, Head, and Face. THE NECK. THE head and face. Sterno-cleido-mastoideiis, 1, la. Sterno-thjToideus, 2. Temporalis, 10. Masseter, 11. Buccinator, 12. Masticatory Group. Thyro-byoideus, 3. Sterno-hyoideus, 4. Omo-hyoideus, 5, 5, Mylo-hyoideus, 6. Digastricus, 7, 7'. Stylo-hyoideus, 8. Epicranial Group. Occipito-frontalis, 13, 13'. Corrugator supercilii, 17. Platysma myoides, 9. c c 2