THE BONES. 112 is convex, tliis bone, especially at its upper and outer part, is removed a short distance from the thoracic walls. Of the three margins of the triangular scapula, the posterior, or base, is the longest, and, being turned towards the spine, is named the vertebral border; when the arm hangs passively, at the side, this border is not vertical, or parallel with the spine, but diverges slightly from it and from the opposite bone, below, the direction of this border being- oblique, downwards and a little outwards. The anterior or axillary border, the next in length, and turned towards the arm-pit, ascends obliquely from below, upwards and outwards. Lastly, the upper or clavicular border, the shortest of the three, lies behind the collar-bone, and descends obliquely, from within outwards. The junction between the collar-bone and the scapula, does not take place, either at the borders, or at the angles of the latter, but, by a very small narrow surface, at the anterior end of the acromion process, which is the continuation outwards of the spinous process of the scapula, a prominent ridge, situated on the back of the bone. The acromion forms the outermost point of the shoulder-girdle, on each side, and overhangs the shoulder-joint. As the collar-bones spring from the front of the thorax, whilst the scapulas are placed behind it, these bones, in passing outwards to meet and articulate together above the shoulder-joint, approach each other at an acute angle, the collar-bones passing somewhat backwards, and the scapulae forwards; this may best be seen, on looking at the skeleton from above. Hence, too, the planes of the flat scapulae are placed somewhat obliquely on the thoracic walls, and their outer angles, on which the sockets for the arm-bones are found, are directed, not outwards, but outwards and forwards. As, in examining the innominate bone, it was found convenient to take the acetabulum, which is articulated with the femur, as a point of departure, so, in describing the scapula, its very peculiar configuration, figs. 46, 47, 48, may be traced, by starting at the glenoid cavity or socket for the humerus ; but the description of that cavity will be reserved to the last. The glenoid cavity is supported upon a somewhat constricted part of the bone, named the neck, immediately beyond which, the bone widens out, to assume its characteristic triangular form. This expanded part of the scapula named its ala, or wing, is, in places, so thin as to be translucent. It is usually described as presenting, besides its three borders already mentioned, three angles, three fossce, and three bony processes. The neck itself is com- paratively thick, being strengthened by three bony ridges, one passing downwards, along the front of the axillary border; one upwards, to the root of the coracoid process, to be immediately described, and then along the clavicular border; and one, backwards, which blends with the base of the spinous and acromion processes. The coracoid process, figs. 46, 47, rudely compared with a raven's bill {Kopa^, a raven), is a strong hook-like projection, which arises by a thick.