THE MUSCLES. 414 Levator labii inferioris, or levator menii, igs. 186, 187, 193, 197,^*. Deep above, superficial below; small, narrow above, wider below; vertical, but inclined slightly forwards and inwards. Incisor fossa of the lower jaw integument of the chin. It raises the lower lip, especially its central part, the two muscles coalescing below; it also protrudes the lip, as in pouting. It produces dimples in the skin covering the chin. It expresses doubt and disdain, especially if aided by the triangularis oris. Orbicularis oris, or sphincter oris, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial, but has certain, specially arranged, deep bundles belonging to it; median, elliptical, consisting of two portions, in this respect, repeating the arrange- ment of the orbicularis palpebrarum, one labial, occupying the red border of the lip, narrow, thick, very regular, but composed of fine pale fasciculi; the other facial, wider, thinner, darker, and less regular in form, surrounding the mouth. The labial portion has no attachments to bone, but its fasciculi pass uninterruptedly from lip to lip, around the corners of the mouth, some of them blending with fasciculi from the decussating fibres of the buccinator muscles. The facial portion is also, for the most part, unconnected with bone, its fasciculi intermixing with those of the numerous muscles which converge to different parts of the mouth; but certain deep-seated bundles become attached, either to the septum of the nose, or to parts of the upper or lower jaw. Thus, in the upper lip, two bundles exist on each side of the face, namely, an inner one, the naso-labial muscle, pointed above, but thick below, which is fixed to the nasal septum, and an outer thinner and wider one, named the superior accessory or incisive muscle, fixed to the incisive and sometimes, also, to the canine fossa of the upper jaw, outside the depressor alee nasi. In the lower lip, there exists only one bundle, on each side of the face, namely, the inferior accessory or incisive muscle, which is fixed to the canine fossa of the lower jaw, outside the levator of that lip. The peculiar vertical median furrow, seen on the upper lip, beneath the nasal septum, coincides with the two naso-labial muscles, whilst the outer sides of the ridges on each side of that furrow, correspond with the situation of the two incisive muscles. The median furrow ends below in a prominence, named the lobe of the lip; all this median part of the lip, at an early period of development, is separated from the lateral parts, and the ridges represent the lines of subsequent fusion. Opposite the bottom of the furrow, on the inner surface of the lip, is a fold of the mucous membrane, named the frcenum, running back to the surface of the upper jaw. There is no primitive median part, no median furrow, no persistent median lobe, but rather a gentle median depression, and only a very slight frsenum to the lower lip. The two portions of the orbicularis oris oppose all the other muscles of the mouth, these draw- ing the lips in various directions, the orbicularis closing it both vertically and transversely. The labial portion, acting alone, inverts the red portion