THE MUSCLES. 254 direction of its axis, or in that of the tendon on which its fasciculi end. For the most part, but not invariably, these tendons are, of necessity, inserted at a more or less acute angle to the axis of the bones on which the muscles draw; if so, the prominences of the bones increase their leverage ; occasionally, however, a tendon turns down nearly perpendicularly upon a bone, or spreads out or twists, in some peculiar way, to gain a special hold and action on it. Sometimes the movement of a bone is commenced by the action of one set of fasciculi of a muscle, or by one muscle, and then it is prolonged or continued by others. When a bone is to be held firmly in a given position, opposing or antagonist muscles also act, and fix or stiffen the joint at which the bone usually moves, holding the articular surfaces tightly together. Any actual movements which take place, are determined by the surfaces and liga- ments of the joints. The reversal of a given movement always involves a loss of force ; this cannot be avoided, for no continuous circular motion is possible, such as is employed in wheeled engines. Frequently, a tendon is deflected over some point or surface of a bone, and then the efficient force of the muscle, reduced even as much as 30 per cent, owing to friction, operates in a new direction from the point of deflection, and at an angle with the axis of the muscle itself. The perfect flexibility of a tendon which has thus to turn and bend, is of immense advantage, especially as it is accompanied by great strength, and practical inextensibility. Sometimes, at the place of deflection of a tendon, a small nodule of fibro-cartilage or cartilage, or a sesamoid bone, is formed in its substance; on the bone, over which it turns, there always exists a smooth groove, covered with a film of cartilage, and often converted by a fibrous band into a canal; this is lined by a synovial membrane, as especially seen in the foot and hand, where long tendons travel through channels, half osseous and half fibrous. As a rule, deep-seated muscles and their tendons, whether broad or narrow, are very short, and pass from one bone to the next, that is over one joint only, on which alone they can act; whereas, the more superficial, or actuall}'^ superficial, muscles frequently extend from one bone to a distant one, over two or even more joints, on which they have an immediate, iutei'mediate, or remote action. The reverse arrangement would be obviously impossible, without some special contrivance. Such cases do, however, occur in the distal portions of the limbs, as when the tendons of a deep muscle pass through splits in those of a superficial one, as seen in the two flexors of the fingers ; the deep muscle may even be longer than the superficial one, as in the two flexors of the toes. The contraction of a single muscle is sometimes, though rarely, sufficient for the performance of a given action ; but, much more commonly, several or many ^muscles concur in the production of a single definite and, so-called, co- ordinated movement; some muscles, for example, fix certain bones, whilst others act upon more distant bones. Certain muscles, acting over the back