233 THE JOINTS OF THE UPPER LIMB. of the coracoid process of the scapula, whilst the conoid ligament, fig. 98, placed behind the trapezoid, passes from the conoid tubercle and the neigh- bouring surface of the clavicle, to the hinder part of the coracoid process. Movements.—The gliding movements at the acromio-clavicular articula- tion serve, amongst other purposes, to enable the scapula, and, therefore, its glenoid cavity, to be adjusted to varying directions of the shaft of the humerus, when that bone is fixed and the shoulder-girdle moves upon its head. The very strong trapezoid and conoid coraco-clavicular ligaments support the scapula against direct inward pull or thrust, such as frequently occurs in the use of the upper limb. Moreover, they assist in so connecting it with the clavicle, that it is carried upwards, downwards, forwards, and backwards, with that bone, and likewise participates in the proper clavicular movements of circumduction and rotation. In moving up and down, the scapular motion is nearly vertical, but in moving forwards and backwards, it follows a curved path, upon the thorax. When the arm is raised above the horizontal line of the shoulder towards the head, the scapula, with the clavicle, rotates in a peculiar manner, on an imaginary and moveable axis, passing, from before backwards, through the upper part of the infra-spinous fossa. The Coracoid and Coraco-Acromial Ligaments.—These two ligaments are proper to the scapula itself. The coracoid ligament, fig. 98, is a small slip, which crosses the supra-scapular notch, and converts it into a foramen. The coraco-acromial ligament, fig. 98, is a strong, flat, triangular band, attached, by its base, to the outer border of the coracoid process, and, by its apex, to the tip of the acromion. It crosses over the top of the shoulder joint, forming a portion of the deep vault above it; it protects the head of the humerus, and, in certain circumstances, may arrest its undue ascent, under the influence of external pressure ; but, it is separated from the joint, by the tendon of the supra-spinatus muscle, a synovial bursa intervening. The Joints of tpie Upper Limb. The'Shoulder Joint.~The shoulder joint, figs. 98 to 101, is the loosest ball-and-socket joint in the body, the socket being only half as wide, and about two-thirds as deep, as the ball which moves in it. The capsular ligament, figs. 98 to 101, is very lax. The cartilage, which lines the glenoid cavity, fig. 101, and that which covers the head of the humerus, are nearly of equal thickness throughout, excepting just near their margins. This joint is con- structed for purposes of free motion chiefly, whilst the stronger hip joint is suited for those of support. The glenoid ligament, situated within the joint, is a narrow, firm