384 THE MUSCLES. of the common extensor which proceeds to the same finger. These two special extensors are more plainly distinguishable, when the other fingers are flexed, and the little and index fingers are separately extended. The tendons of the two radial and the ulnar extensors of the carpus, though very short beyond the wrist, are seen, in violent actions of the hand, as prominent ridges, the latter filling up the interval between the back of the styloid process of the ulna and the base of the fifth metacarpal bone, and the two former descend- ing in the wider space left between the extensor tendons belonging to the index finger, and that proceeding to the last phalanx of the thumb. This last-named tendon gives rise to a well-marked and very oblique ridge, crossing outwards to its destination on the back of the thumb; between it and the less oblique tendon of the extensor of the first phalanx of the thumb, is a deep triangular depression or fossa, best seen when the thumb is extended, and whimsically named the anatomical snuflf-box, ' la tabatiere anatomique,^ as it forms a convenient measure of a dose of snuff, which may be given and received, without soiling the finger-tips of either donor or recipient. The tendon outside this fossa, together with the shorter one of the extensor of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, bridge over the interval between the styloid process of the radius and the root of the thumb, and here impart width to the expanding line of the wrist, as it joins on to the hand. The abductor pollicis gives fulness to the outline of the thumb beyond. The first dorsal interosseous muscle, larger than the rest, produces the longitudinal, prominent, soft form, seen behind the web of the thumb, partly filling up the void between the first and second metacarpal bones, and increasing the breadth of the hand, by an undulating contour line proceeding from just above the head of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb to the outer side of the root of the index finger. When the thumb is adducted, this soft pi'ominence is still more marked. The other dorsal interosseous muscles produce, each, on the back of the hand, a fulness between the several diverging extensor tendons. The abductor of the little finger is responsible for the rich, sinuous contour-line of the inner border of the hand. The forms of the different knuckles have already been explained as dependent on those of the bones of the fingers and the thumb (p. 150) ; the expanded extensor tendons round off, or soften, those of the first knuckles of the fingers; the splitting of these tendons, to pass by the sides of the second knuckles, not only permits those joints to bend most freely, but reveals their trochlear form; whilst the terminal slips of the tendons fill up and obscure the slighter concavities of the last knuckles, or give them a flattened or some- what convex transverse outline. In the palm of the hand, it is evident that the central depressed part, or hollow, corresponds with the central, fan-shaped portion of the palmar fascia; whilst the characteristic thenar and hypothenar eminences, or balls of the thumb and little finger, differing widely from each other, represent very