THE MUSCLES. 378 tendon of the extensor minimi digiti, passes forwards from the next compartment, on the back of the fifth metacarpal bone, to meet and join, on the back of the little finger, the outermost of the four tendons of the common extensor of the fingers. These tendons, emerging from a common com- partment, diverge, as they pass forwards, to the back of the knuckles at the base of each finger ; here, each tendon expands so as to cover the dorsum of the first phalanx with a broad aponeurosis, which receives on its radial margin the delicate tendons of the lumbricales, and on both margins, offsets from the tendons of the interossei muscles. At the middle of the first phalanx, each common extensor tendon divides into three slips, of which the central and thinner one is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral slips pass over the bevelled sides of the head of the first phalanx, and over the lateral ligaments of the neighbouring joint, unite together on the back of the second phalanx, and are finally inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons of the common extensor intended for the middle, ring. Fig. 184.—Outer Border of Wrist and Hand. and little fingers, are variously connected together by short oblique tendinous slips, the strongest of which usually diverge from the ring finger tendon to the other two ; hence, that finger cannot be fully or readily extended, when the two neighbouring fingers are flexed; for, it is then, as if it were tied down, because the action of the common extensor muscle cannot be communicated separately to it. The three inner fingers are, therefore, usually associated in the movement of extension; but the little finger is comparatively indepen- dent, owing to its possessing a special extensor, besides a division of the com- mon extensor tendon. The tendon of the extensor indicis, descending from the same compartment as those of the common extensor, but concealed by the outermost tendon, runs along the ulnar border of that tendon, and joins it, at last, in its expansion on the back of the first phalanx of the index finger ; it endows that finger with its characteristic independence as to extension. Next to this, the tendons of the extensores carpi radiates, longior, and brevior, pass from their common compartment vertically down to the bases