THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 99 interspaces between the apices; but, besides this, the deep fascia which covers in the muscles, is attached around the borders of the flattened subcutaneous surfaces of the spines, and the general integument is also fixed somewhat more closely over them, than it is upon the surrounding fascia, so that the skin is drawn in, or dimpled, opposite the tips of each lumbar spine. The positions of these are not always indicated by prominences, but sometimes by depressions, especially when the loins are much incmved. The markings, whether prominent or indented, caused by the lumbar spines, are much larger than those produced by the tips of the dorsal spines, which are smaller and much closer together, or nearly overlap one another. As to the vertebra prominens, it forms a well-defined and useful point of departure and com- parison, in the region in which it is placed, namely, the junction of the back with the neck. It is sometimes unduly prominent, in which case, it imparts an animal character to this part of the figure; because, in quadrupeds generally, and even in the anthropoid apes, this and the adjacent dorsal spines are much longer than they are in Man, for the attachment of the powerful ligaments and muscles necessary for supporting and moving the head and neck, in the horizontal, oblique, or semi-erect position of their bodies ; whereas, in Man, the vertical carriage of the neck and head, diminishes the necessity for similar provisions in the bones, ligaments, and muscles. In the antique, the elevation due to the vertebra prominens, is never plainly shown; nor is the upper dorsal region, immediately below it, made too rounded. Either the Greeks appreciated the obvious teachings of comparative anatomy, or their fine sense of the fitness of form, kept them in the path of truth and beauty. The elegant curves, so characteristic of the human back, and not to be paralleled in any animal, are dependent on the curvatures of the vertebral column itself. Whatever value we attach to any theoretical notions con- cerning the importance of alternating curves, as an element of the Beautiful, it cannot be denied that, were the human spine straight, as well as erect, the grace of form and carriage, now so conspicuous in the human torso, would be seriously impaired. That, not only the existence of the several cm-ves, sacral, lumbar, dorsal, and cervical, but also their relative proportions, are of material importance in an aesthetic sense, is shown in the deterioration of form, pro- duced by the increase, diminution, or obliteration of any one of them, as the result of deformity or disease.