289 THE MUSCLES OF THE LEG. base of the last phalanx of the great tee. It first bends the last phalanx, and then the first phalanx of that toe. It is connected by a strong slip, joined by- some fibres of the accessorius muscle, with the long flexor tendons of the second and third toes, which are thus associated with the great toe by their musculararrang'ements,as well as by the connexions of their tarsal bones; it, accordingly, acts on all the three toes, on which the weight of the body is essentially borne, when the heel is raised from the ground. It assists the other posterior muscles in their free action, as in flexing the protarsus and extending the foot; also in steadying and straightening the leg, in resting on the flat foot, in raising the heel, in standing on tip-toe, and in the forward propulsion of the body, during the fixed or forced positions of the lower limb. Flexor longus digitorum, figs. 135, 137, 138, ^ Deep and covered above, but superficial, in the lower third of the inner side of the leg, between the tibia and the soleus muscle, and also behind and below the internal malleolus; elongated, pointed above, its fibres ending on a strong tendon occupying nearly the whole length of the back of the muscle ; vertical behind the tibia in the leg, its tendon being there deflected at the groove behind the malleolus beneath the internal annular ligament, and then passing obliquely outwards and forwards, over the inner border of the tarsus, into the sole, superficially to the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe, but covered by the short flexor of the toes, and, lastly, being joined behind by the flexor accessorius, divides into four tendons for the four outer toes. Back of the tibia, from, below its oblique line to about three inches from its lower end, and the intermuscular septum between it and the tibialis posticus last phalanges of the four outer toes. The four terminal tendons of the long flexor, that for the second toe being nearly straight and the others more and more oblique, give origin to the lumbricales muscles along their inner border ; each tendon, covered superficially by a tendon of the short flexor, enters a common sheath with that tendon, and opposite the first phalanx, passes through the split in the latter, to reach its destination. Owing to this arrangement, the flexor longus is named ^ perfor an s,'and the flexor brevis, 'perforatus.' The sheaths of these tendons, which confine them against the first and second phalanges, are attached, on each side, to the margins of the under surfaces of those bones; they are thin opposite to the joints, where otherwise, they would interfere with flexion, but much thickened opposite the phalanges by cross bands named ligamenta vaginalia; they are lined by synovial membrane, and are traversed by slender cords, ligamenta brevia, connecting the tendons with the dense fibro-cartilaginous structure of the plantar ligaments, (see p. 209) which are thus drawn up by the flexor muscles, simultaneously with the phalanx in front of them. Certain median folds passing from the long flexor tendons to the last phalanges, containing two thin streaks of yellow elastic tissue, have been described by myself and U