68 THE BONES. innominate bone, this notch is placed a little anterior to the lowest part of the acetabulum ; hence it furnishes a guide for placing the separated bone in its due position. The ligamentum teres, which is attached by one end to the head of the femur, descends within the hip-joint, to be attached to the margins of this notch ; continuous with the notch, is a broad, shallow excavation, of a circular form, the fovea or pit of the acetabulum, which extends into the floor of the socket, and lodges that ligament, together with some fatty tissue and blood- vessels. Owing to the presence of this pit or excavation, the floor of the acetabulum is comparatively thin, and often translucent in the dried bone; but it has no weight to bear, and merely protects the ligamentum teres and other soft parts. The articulating portion of the acetabulum is placed out- side or around the circular fovea ; but, like the rim of the socket itself, it is interrupted, opposite to the notch ; hence the articular portion of the aceta- bulum, which is in contact with the head of the femur, does not form a complete cup, but consists of a wide crescentic zone, or semilunar surface, smoothed for the incrusting articular cartilage, and intervening between the slightly roughened circular excavation and the rim of the socket; its widest part is above, where the greatest weight has to be borne ; the narrower parts of the crescent extend in front of and behind the notch, where little or no weight has to be supported. Alth ough the centre of the socket is thin, the articulating portion is so much strengthened by surrounding bone, that its borders are very thick, especially below, in front, and above, that is to say, in the direction of the three primitive component pieces of the acetabulum, namely, the ischiatic, the pubic, and the iliac, each being respectively the thickest part of the bone to which it belongs. It has already been mentioned that the cotyloid notch is placed between the ischiatic and the pubic portions of the margin of the acetabulum. Between the pubic and the iliac portions, is also found a slight depression, giving an undulating outline to this part of the rim, and corresponding with an overlying groove in the adjacent surface of the bone, for the tendon of the iliacus and psoas muscles. The pubic portion of the aceta- bulum between the notch and the depression, presents a well-marked elevation, named the ilio-pectineal eminence, figs. 24, 27. Between the ischiatic and the iliac portions, there is no distinct depression of the margin of the aceta- bulum, but, merely a slight undulation, as compared with the prominence of the ischiatic portion, and with that of the most projecting or overhanging part, the middle of its uppermost or iliac portion. The cotyloid ligament is fixed to the margin of the socket, and the transverse ligament crosses between the edges of the cotyloid notch. The Ischium.—The ischiatic portion of the innominate bone,or ischium, figs. 25, 27, is continued downwards from the acetabulum, by a slightly and gradually contracted but strong three-sided column, named the body.