THE FEMALE SKELETON. 193 the anterior superior spinous processes of the ilia, instead of projecting for- wards, beyond them. Moreover, the anterior and posterior surfaces of the pubes become almost inferior and superior; the apex of the coccyx, instead of being on a level with the lower border of the pubic arch, as in the male, is situated a little above that border ; whilst the base of the sacrum is placed higher above the level of the pubic bones. Though the sacral promontory does not enter so far into the pelvic cavity of the female, as it does in the male, nevertheless, owing to the greater inclination of the sacrum it- self, backwards, the sacro-ver- tebral angle is more sudden. Besides being, like the rest of the skeleton, more slender in every respect, both as to mass and form, the moveable part of the spinal column, in the female, has its dorsal region relatively shorter, but, its lumbar and cervical regions relatively longer than in the male, figs. 64, 66. The lumbar region, moreover, appears still longer, from its being more free between the pelvis and the thorax, on account of the iliac crests not rising so high, and the ribs not descending so low, in the female skeleton; in the male skeleton, on the other hand, the loins are shorter, stronger, and more yig. 74.—Female Pelvis. 4, fourth Lumbar Vertebra, closely filled up by the higher iliac crests, and the more descending ribs, figs. 64, 66. As already men- tioned, the lumbar region, in the female, becomes much incurved in the standing position, and it altogether possesses greater length, slenderness, freedom and mobility, and may be more narrowly compressed above the pelvis, at the waist; too frequently, however, this is done at the expense of the natural beauty of the figure, and at the cost of injury to the health. Higher up, in accordance with the smaller size of the head, the spinous process of the vertebra prominens is relatively small in the female skeleton ; whilst the proportionate elongation and slenderness of the rest of the cervical vertebrae, are in harmony with the longer, narrower, and, more rounded neck of women, as