THE BONES. 192 hip-joint; the -sacral plane h larger, and more inclined from the perpen- dicular,especiallyinthe standing position; fur, as the sacral promontory does not advance so far forwards into the pelvic cavity, the upper portion of the pelvis has to roll forwards so much the more, in order to bring tlie centre of gravity of the whole body, over the heads of the thigh-bones at the acetabiila. Hence, in the female, tlie greater deviation from the perpendicular of the gluteal region, and the more marked incurvation of the loins in the female figure. The points or depressions at the corners of the ilio-sacral triangle, formed by the tuberosity of the sacrum, and the two posterior superior spinous processes of theilia,are all further asunder, and the intermediate surface is larger and flatter, and its inferior angle more ob tuse. The deficient height of the female pelvis, as compared with that of \ the male, and its less massive form, are well seen, also, in a side view, j figs. 73, 74. The great ' expansion of the ilium, from front to back, and especially backwards, be- hind the acetabulum, is at once evident; or, it may be said to be -pro- Fiw. 73.—Male Telvis. i, fourth Lumbar A'ertebra. longed very much in ad- vance of the sacrum. This, in part, explains the great size of the sacro-sciatic notch, in the female pelvis; but the greater length, obliquity backwards, and flatness or deficiency of curvature, of the sacrum itself, contribute to enlarge that notch. Not only is the lower part of the pelvis more slender in the female, but, in accordance with the smaller size of the heads of the thigh-bones, tlie acetabula are also smaller; these sockets are directed more downwards, and less outwards, than in the male, so that less of their interior is seen on the lateral aspect of the dried pelvis. Lastly, the upper part of the pelvis is inclined so much more forwards in the female, that the pubic portion is brought more nearly beneath the acetabula, and the prominence of the pubes recedes, so as to fall behind