THE BONES. 98 this long central bony axis, which come closely up, beneath the skin, and so directly influence the surface forms, are the spinous processes; and, of these, only the apices are really subcutaneous, their edges and surfaces being entirely hidden, like the rest of the vertebrae, by muscular or tendinous structures. The prominent, longitudinal, but interrupted ridge, formed by the succession of spinous processes, as seen in the skeleton, and extending from the back of the sacrum, up to the occiput, is no longer visible as a ridge, in the living figure, excepting in emaciated persons. The apices of these processes are, however, always distinguishable along the bottom of a more or less evident fuiTow passing down the middle of the back. This furrow, the spinal f^trroiv, is deepest in the region of the loins, partly on account of the lumbar posterior concavity, but also because the lumbar muscles are very large, and project backwards on each side, much beyond the spinous processes. It gradually becomes shallower in the dorsal region, because of the posterior convexity of that part of the spine, and the comparative flatness of the muscles on each side; but, it is still visible, when the trunk is upright, although, in stooping, it disappears, and then, the spinous processes become more or less traceable. In the neck, the spinous process of the seventh vertebra or vertebra 'prominens, forms a conspicuous projection. Sometimes, the first dorsal spine is nearly as prominent. Above the seventh, the cervical spinous processes are sunk in, and the median furrow of the back is there replaced by a broad, oval depres- sioia, along which, in the upright posture, no trace of the spinous processes can be seen, unless it be that of the sixth. It is along the spinal furrow, from the upper part of the sacrum to the vertebra prominens, or to the vertebra above it, that the tips of the spinous processes are recognisable, if not always to the eye, at least to the touch. They are not necessarily arranged in a perfectly regular, vertical line, some one or more of the dorsal spines especially, being, usually, a little divergent. This fact furnishes a good illustration of the difference between Nature and the Ideal. The artist, in many cases, even in the domain of High Art, requires to be strictly naturalistic; but, in others, he must eliminate the deviations or varieties met with in his models, and follow an ideal standard. This, however, must always, in the case of the human or other organic form, be based, in the last resort, on anatomical fact. Nevertheless, unless for the most absolutely realistic purpose, no artist would be justified in retaining, in his representa- tions of the human form, accidental deviations from anatomical symmetry in the spine, however frequently such may be exhibited by Nature. The aesthetic sense would necessarily be outraged by such a blemish. In the lumbar region particularly, not only are the situations of the spinous processes, plainly discernible on the surface, but also the intervals between them, which, however, are bridged over by the supra-spinous liga- ment. The apices are, here, of considerable vertical depth, and so are the