142 THE RONES. The metacarpus.—The five metacarpal bones cf the hand, the re- presentatives of the five metatarsals in the foot, differ from these, in being shorter, bone for bone, and in having only the four inner ones arranged nearly parallel with each other, the first metacarpal for the thumb, standing off from the rest. They are long bones, with prismatic shafts and expanded ends. The shafts are somewhat curved in the longitudinal direction, being convex on the back, and concave towards the palm ; they are thinnest in the middle, so that the interosseous spaces between them, are there widest. The concavity of their palmar stu-faces contributes to form the longitudinal jpalmar arch, figs. 58, 60. Their dorsal surface, fig. 59, is broad and rough towards the base, but lower down, is marked by a median ridge, which, at about the upper third of the bone, bifurcates, the two branches diverging and descending to two small tubercles on the sides of the lower end of the bone; the two diverging lines enclose a smooth, flattened, triangular, and almost subcutaneous surface, which is covered by the corresponding flat extensor tendon. On each side of these lines, are excavated surfaces, for the partial origin of the dorsal interosseous muscles. The fifth metacarpal bone, however, has only one oblique line, on its dorsal aspect, passing downwards from its ulnar to its radial border; whilst the dorsum of the metacarpal bone of the thumb has no line. The excavated surfaces on each side of these lines, are continuous with the lateral portions of the shafts, which limit the interosseous spaces; they meet on the palmai" aspect, in a narrow ridge, which spreads out, Tipwards and downwards, towards each end of the bone; tliey give origin to the palmar, as well as to portions of the dorsal interosseous muscles. The upper ends, or bases, of the metacarpal bones are four-sided, but are broader at the back than in front, and are compressed laterally, where they touch each other ; they articulate, by their smooth upper surface, with the carpus, forming gliding joints, and, by one, or even two small lateral facets, with each other ; they are closely held together by interosseous ligaments, attached to roughened parts of their sides ; they are also roughened for ligaments in front and behind. The lower ends, or heads, of these bones, much broader and larger than the corresponding bones in the foot, with the exception of the first, are flattened at the sides, where they present depressions, surmounted, posteriorly, by little tubercles, for the attachment of the lateral ligaments. They terminate in large articular surfaces, broader in front than behind, and convex in all directions, but especially so in the antero-posterior direction, and prolonged further on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect of the bones ; they are adapted to deep concavities on the hinder ends of the first phalanges of the fingers, with which they form oblong ball-and-socket joints; on the palmar aspect, fig. 58, they present two slight lateral backward prolongations, between which the flexor ten- dons lie. To the prominent borders of these, are attached the strong ligaments