THE MUSCLES. 320 147, Deep ; a series of fleshy and tendinous bundles, largest towards the lower part of the loins ; oblique upwards and inwards, through the whole length of the spine. Back of the sacrum, posterior superior spinous process of the ilium, sacro-iliac ligaments, aponeurosis of the erector spinse muscle, articular and accessory tubercles of the lumbar, transverse processes of the dorsal, and articular processes of the lower four cervical, vertebrae laminae and spinous processes of the vertebrae above, the deeper fasciculi passing from one vertebra to the next, and the more superficial fasciculi, to the second, third, or fourth vertebra higher up. Rotatores sjpinoi. Deep ; eleven small slips, found in the dorsal region only ; less oblique than the multifid fasciculi which cover them. Transverse processes of the vertebrae laminae of next vertebra above. Inter-transversales, fig. 147, ^, ^. Deep ; short slips, thick and double in the loins, smaller and single in the back, more distinct and again double in the neck ; vertical between the transverse processes, which are themselves bifid in the cervical vertebra3. Inter-spinales, fig. 147, ^, ^. Deep, their edges covered only by the supra-spinous ligament; short slips, arranged on each side of the middle line, thin and flat in the loins, few and small in the back, larger and rounded in the neck, vertical between the spinous pro- cesses, absent between the axis and atlas. A few supra-spinal muscular slips are also described. Extensor coccygis, fig. 147, *. Deep; a slender prolongation from the deep vertebral set; vertical from the sacrum to the coccyx, a rudiment of the extensor of the caudal vertebrae in animals ; not always present. Semi- spinales dorsi, and colli, fig. 148. Deep, resting on the multifidus spinae; tendinous and fleshy slips ; oblique from the transverse to the spinous processes. The dorsal part, ^, from the six dorsal transverse processes, namely from the tenth to the fifth the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical spines; the cervical part, ^, ®, thicker, especially above, from the four upper dorsal transverse processes four cervical spines, namely, from the fifth to the second. Of this deep vertebral group, the vertical inter-transverse and inter- spinous muscles, approximate the processes to which they are attached, and help to bend the spine sideways or backwards. The oblique rotatores. (Iv.io Fig. 148.—Deep Vertebral Muscles ; the Semi-spinales.