THE BONES. 146 the articular cavity is extended upwards on" the palmar aspect by the so-called glenoid ligament. The joints thus formed are limited in their movements, as compai'ed with the spheroidal ball-and-socket joints ; but it is at these joints, that the free movements of the entire fingers, at their bases, are per- formed. The cup-like cavity of the first phalanx of the fore-finger appears to be the deepest; whilst that of the first phalanx of the thumb is much shallower, and wider from side to side, than the rest, in accordance with the greater breadth of its corresponding bone. On each side of the bases of the first phalanges, are small tubercles for the attachment of the lateral liga- ments, and of the tendons of the interosseous muscles ; but on the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, instead of an interosseous muscle, there is the abductor muscle, and also the short flexor muscle of that finger. Into the inner and outer sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, are inserted the adductor and the abductor pollicis, and, with these, the two corresponding heads of the flexor brevis pollicis. At the back of this phalanx in the thumb, there is also inserted the tendon of the extensor primi internodii pollicis; and, in the fingers, occasional little divergent slips of the extensor communis digitorum. The lower ends or heads of the first phalanges, are flattened behind and before, and have ar- ticular surfaces altogether different from those of the metacarpal bones, being of a distinctly condyloid and trochlear shape, having two small con- dyles, with a comparatively wide, shallow, longitudinal groove between them; they are broader and prolonged very much further on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect; in the latter situation, the groove only exists; in the former, the lateral condyloid surfaces are most evident. On each side, are rough depressions, in which there are prominences, situated anteriorly, for the at- tachment of the lateral ligaments, which are, therefore, fixed in front of the axis of motion of these little hinge-joints, so as not to interfere with their flexion, which is here greater than in the other joints of the fingers. The depressions on the sides of the heads of these phalanges, are more marked towards the dorsal surface, fig. 59, where the bone is, as it were, bevelled off, so as to permit the lateral slips of the extensor tendon, which divides as it passes these joints, to slide easily asunder when the joints are flexed. The second phalanges, in all cases shorter and more slender than the first, differ from them essentially, in the form of their proximal ends, which, instead of being oval cups, have two shallow depressions, one on each side, and a median longitudinal ridge, by means of which they are adapted ac- curately to the condyloid and trochlear articulating surfaces on the lower ends of the first phalanges. The joints thus constructed resemble miniature knee-joints, and form very complete hinges, having, as just stated, an ex- tremely free movement of flexion. Besides lateral prominences for the ligaments, these bones have each, at the upper end of their dorsal surfaces.