THE BONES. 162 the root of the zygoma, in front of the glenoid cavity, gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the articulation of the lower jaw. The Sphenoid Bone.—The sphenoid "bone, figs. 61, 62, 63, S, is a single bone, tvedged in between the other cranial bones, across the base of the skull; it also enters into the formation of the nasal and orbital cavities; and it is seen on the sides of the skull, fig. 62, S, at the deepest part of both temporal fossae. It is everywhere completely removed from the surface. This bone is shaped something like a bat, with the wings opened out; but besides a body, it has two wing-like expansions, on each side, and two processes projecting downwards from it, like legs. It is a most com- plicated bone, connected with all the other bones of the cranium, and also with five of the bones of the face. Anatomically, it is of great interest; but, for the artist, a very brief description of it will suffice. Its thick and strong body, fig. 61, is, in the adult, solidly continuous behind, with the basilar portion of the occipital bone, fig. 61, 6. In front, the bone is hollowed out, so as to increase its sui-faces, without adding to its weight, by the formation of air cavities. It here joins the ethmoid bone, completes the base of the skull, and serves to support the septum of the nose. Its two wings enter into the orbits, where they join the frontal and malar bones, and give origin to the levator pilpebrse, and five muscles of the eye-ball. The outer ends of the greater wings appear in the temporal fossae, fig. 62, S, where they are interposed between, and joined with the frontal, parietal, and the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. A horizontal ridge here divides a surface of origin above, for the temporal muscle, from one below, for the external pterygoid muscle. Sometimes, the greater wing of the sphenoid bone, on one or both sides of the skull, does not extend far enough backwards to reach the parietal bone ; in this exceptional condition, the frontal bone and the squamous portion of the temporal bone touch each other. In the base of the skull, the greater wing of the sphenoid is closely fitted in, between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone, and gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The two descending processes of the sphenoid bone named the pterygoid processes, pass down on the outer side of the posterior nasal openings, serve to support the two palate bones, and give oi'igin to the external and internal pterygoid muscles, which act upon the lower jaw. The Ethmoid Bone.—The ethmoid bone, is a single, thin, complex bone, which contains the olfactory apparatus, and fills in the base of the cranium, between the sphenoid and frontal bones, above the nose and between the orbits, on the inner walls of which only, is it visible in the dried skull. It assists in forming the bony septum or median partition of the nose, and is