109 THE SHOULDER GIRDLE. surface of the median line of the chest, in the living model, a general convexity, the most prominent part of which, is at the ridge caused by the change of plane at the junction between the manubrium and the body of the sternum. Opposite the xiphoid cartilage, there is usually a somewhat sudden depression between the cartilages of the seventh ribs, named the pit of the stomach, or scrohiculus cordis [scrobs, a furrow ; cor, the heart). Like many other prominent portions of the skeleton, the sternum corre- sponds with a median longitudinal furrow, on the surface of the living figure. This sterncd furroxv, like that over the crest of the ilium, has not the shape of the bone itself. On the contrary, it is wider at its upper and lower part, but narrower in the middle ; moreover, it presents on each side, a festooned border. This is due to the mode of origin of the two great pectoral muscles, the muscular and tendinous attachments of which, overlap portions of the anterior surface of the sternum, so as to leave between them a comparatively narrow depression with festooned borders. Above and below, these thick muscles recede from the bone, and the sternal furrow on the surface becomes much wider. The broad upper part of the manubrium, however, is partly covered by the long, cord-like, tendinous origins of the two sterno-mastoid muscles, which obscure its forms, and appear like two narrow oblique ridges, converging below, between which, only the central part of the bony furcula or supra-sternal notch, is visible, this notch being not only much narrowed, but deepened by the projecting tendons. The Shoulder Girdle ; the Clavicle and the Scapula. The Clavicle.—The clavicles or collar-hones, the well-known bones which pass across the front of the upper part of the thorax, and the lo^^er part of the neck, fig. 27, are placed nearly horizontally, one on each side, between the top of the sternum, just above the first costal cartilage and rib, and the acromion process of the scapula. They are, however, not strictly horizontal, but nearly always, when the shoulders are held in their ordinary position, a little higher at their outer ends. If the shoulders are allowed to drop, then the collar-bones may become more nearly horizontal. When, on the other hand, the arms are raised, especially above the horizontal line, the collar-bones assume an oblique direction. The collar-bones do not pass directly outwards from the sternum, but outwards and somewhat backwards. Moreover, their inner ends do not reach the middle line of the body ; neither do their outer ends extend so far as to constitute the extreme point of the shoulder girdle; for the acromion process of the scapula, on each side, lies beyond them, and really forms the outermost point of this portion of the trunk. LEEDS 5.WEST-RI01NC