76 THE BONES. sacral portion of the vertebral canal, is not completely enclosed by bone. At each side of the crest, is a broad and somewhat excavated surface, formed by the united arches of the upper four sacral vertebrae, on which are four posterior foramina for nerves. Close to the inner side of these, are four small tubercles, which, descending in the same line, on each side, as the articular processes of the vertebrae of the loins, are regarded as representatives of those processes. Between the two rows of tubercles and the median crest, are the right and left vertebral or sacral grooves, here comparatively shallow, which give partial origin to the multifidus spinse muscle and to the lower narrow portion of the corresponding erector spinse muscle, the lateral tubercles and median crest furnishing them with special points of attachment. The two lowest tubercles approach each other, and usually combine to form two oblique ridges, sometimes named the sacral ccrnua, which articulate with the cornua of the coccyx. The lateral masses of the sacrum, fig. 24, composed of the conjoined ele- ments of this bone, present each, opposite the fourth and fifth sacral vertebrae, which take no part in the formation of the pelvic girdle, a free border, which becomes much narrower below. To this part, the sacro-sciatic ligaments are attached; the adjacent posterior surface of the bone gives partial oi'i gin to the gluteus maximus muscle. Opposite the upper three vertebrae, which alone enter into the formation of the pelvic girdle, the lateral masses of the sacrum, sometimes called the aloi or wings, are much enlarged, so as to transmit the weight of the trunk from above, downwards and outwards, to the innominate bones. The articular surface, on each side of the sacrum,like that on the opposed surface of the ilium, is ear-shaped, imeven and undulating ; encrusted with fibro-cartilage, it is connected with that bone at the sacro-iliac junction. Though the upper part of the sacrum is wider in front than behind, so that the entire bone is here wedge-shaped from before backwards, as well as from above down- wards, yet the fore part of each vmdulating lateral articulating surface is sud- denly turned, so as to become directed forwards and outwards; hence this part of the sacrum is wedge-shaped from behind forwards, as well as from above downwards. Behind the articular surfaces, the rugged bone gives attachment to the strong interosseous ligaments passing from the iliac bones to the sacrum. The base of the sacrum, fig. 24, which, owing to the oblique or tilted position of the bone, is directed upwards and a little forwards, projects an- teriorly into the pelvis, forming the so-called_promo7i<or?/ of the sacrum, and, with the last lumbar vertebra, the sacro-vertebral angle, fig. 27. This is an important point, in reference to the centre of gravity of the body. From each side of the promontory, the alae of the sacrum present a curved and rounded prominent border, which extends outwards, and a little downwards, and ends at the margin of the auricular smface, and together with the pro- montory, forms the hinder part of the brim of the true pelvis. Just above