134 THE BONES. articulates with the outermost of that row of bones, namely, the scaphoid bone. At its inner border, this carpal articular surface of the radius is completely cut off from the sigmoid cavity for the ulna, by a roughened edge, to which is firmly attached the triangular inter-articular fibro-cartilage, which passes from it to the base of the styloid process of the ulna, and which is interposed be- tween the lower end of that bone and the cuneiform bone, or innermost bone of the first row of the carpus. Surface-forms dependent on the Ulna and Radius. The existence of two bones of nearly equal size in the fore-arm, imparts a flattened form to this segment of tlie upper limb. As already mentioned, it is not the humerus, but the olecranon process or upper end of the ulna, which, in all positions of the fore-arm, forms the point of the elbow; whereas, the prominence of the knee, is formed either by the lower end of the femur or by the patella, and not by the tibia or fibula. In the ordinary straight position of the elbow-joint, the upper border of the olecranon corresponds with a line drawn just above the level of the epi- trochlea of the humerus; when the fore-arm is bent at a right angle, this border corresponds with the plane of the flattened posterior surface of the lower end of the humerus ; lastly, when the fore-arm is completely flexed, the olecranon passes forwards, so as to be placed in front of, but on a much lower level than, the epi-trochlea, around which, in fact, it revolves in these move- ments, always, however, constituting the apex or point of the elbow, figs. 121-3. Between the inner border of the olecranon and the epi-trochlea, there is, during extension of the fore-arm, a well-marked surface-furrow, which might be called tlie epi-trochlear furrow,and which is easily explained by reference to the skele- ton-forms ; as the fore-arm approaches semi-flexion, this furrow is gradually re- placed by a surface more or less prominent, and, in complete flexion, this part becomes quite convex. The broad, truncated, upper surface of the olecranon is covered by the insertion of the tendon of the triceps; so, likewise, nearly the whole shaft of the ulna is so embedded in muscles, that it does not immediately affect the surface-forms. But the posterior border of the upper surface of the olecranon, is free and subcutaneous, and is the part which really constitutes the apex of the elbow ; in over-extension of the fore-arm, however, it ceases to project, but is found at the bottom of a shallow, transverse, crescentic depression, the olecranon furroiv. This border of the olecranon is somewhat convex, and inclined obliquely downwards and outwards ; when the fore-arm is 'extended, its point is much nearer to the epi-trochlea than to the epi-condyle of the humerus, that is nearer to the inner than to the outer side of the elbow ; a line prolonged upwards from it, would cross over the middle of the epi-trochlear