THE MOVEABLE VERTEBRA. 81 surrounds a large open space, the spinal or vertebral foramen ; this forms part of the spinal or vertebral canal. From the back of the arch, that is, from the place where the two laminae meet, projects i\\e spinous process ; and from the two sides of the arch, opposite the place of union of the correspond- ing pedicle and lamina, proceed the transverse processes, right and left. Lastly, there are four articular processes, two of which, the inferior, spring from the lower margin, and two, the superior, from the upper margin of the lamina, one on each side. A series of indentations on the lower and upper borders of each pedicle, are named the vertebral notches. Each of these parts has its special mechanical office. Thus, the body or centrum, fig. 27, supports the superincumbent weight; accordingly, it is the largest part; it is composed essentially of cancellated tissue, the laminae and trabeculae of which, are arranged concentrically, the whole being covered by a thin layer of compact bone. Seen from above, or below, the centrum has a convex outline in front, and at the sides; viewed from the front, or in profile, it is convex from side to side, but concave from above downwards, so as to appear constricted across the middle, and enlarged towards its lower and upper surfaces, on which the weight is borne ; these are further protected and strengthened by slightly elevated rims of denser bone, within which, the surface is depressed and roughened. Piled one upon the other, and connected by their firmly attached intervertebral discs, the bodies of the vertebrae give a jointed columnar appearance to the front of the vertebral column. The bodies of the vertebrae thus united, not only impart strength, flexibility and elasticity to the median axis of the trunk, but also protect the spinal cord and its nerves, not merely covering them in front, but maintaining the continuity of the spinal column, the other parts of the vertebrae not being- adequate to offer the necessary resistance, especially in the longitudinal direction. The aoxh of each vertebra, composed of its strong pedicles, and somewhat broader lamince, the former directed backwards, and the latter turning in and joining in the middle line, closes the foramen behind ; and the several arches, placed closely together or even overlapping, in conjunction with the bodies, the back part of each of which is slightly excavated, complete the spinal canal, for holding the spinal cord and the roots of the spinal nerves. The intervertebral notches in the pedicles, meeting together, form the inter- vertebral foramina, for the transmission and protection of the spinal nervey, as these issue from the spinal canal. Lastly, the arch of each vertebra affords a half-ring-like base, from which tlie spinous process projects back- wards, fig. 26, the two transverse processes laterally, and the four articular processes, two downwards and two ujjwards. The arch, which requires to be very strong, contains much compact bony tissue. The spinous and the tivo transverse processes, provide surfaces of attachment and points of leverage, to numerous muscles; whilst the articular processes, with their smooth facets a