15 THE SKELETON". times called the mandible (mcmdere, to chew), which supports the Lwer teeth. Hidden from view, are two palate bones, left and right (palatum, the pahite), which, with the uppei' jaw-bones, form the hard palate or roof of the mouth ; two inferior turbinated bones (turbo, a whorl), left and right, which are situ- ated within the nasal fossce, or cavities of the nose ; and finally, a single median bone, named from its shape, the vomer or ploughshare bone (vomer, a ploughshare), which helps to partition off the right from the left nasal fossa. These fossse, which contain the organ of smell, are situated beneath the base of the cranium, between the orbits, and above the roof of the mouth, and open in front by apertures called the anterior nasal openings, or anterior nares (naris, a nostril), which are bounded by the two nasal bones, N, and the two superior maxillary bones, J. The orbits or sockets for the eye-balls (orbita, a track), have their borders formed by the frontal, malar, and upper maxillary bones, besides which, the sphenoid, ethmoid, lacrymal and palate bones serve to complete their walls. The mouth which contains the organ of taste, is placed beneath the hard palate, and between the upper and lower maxillary bones. With the exception of the lower jaw-bone, J', the facial bones are joined firmly to each other, and to the under side or base of the cranium, by sutures ; but the lower jaw is articulated with the two temporal bones, just in front of the openings leading into the ears, by a very moveable joint on each side, for the purposes of mastication. The Trunk with the Neck.—The trunk together with the neck, is very nearly equivalent to the torso of artists ; but the fragment of a statue thus named, frequently, and, indeed, usually comprises small portions of the limbs, which it is not here intended to include. Anatomically considered, the bony trunk consists first, of a central or axial part or column, which extends from the base of the skull, down to the lower end of the body, named, for reasons to be presently mentioned, the vertebral column, spinal column, or spine; secondly, of the ribs, which extend sideways from this column, and of the sternum, to which they reach in front; and, lastly, of two sets of bones or bony girdles, which form, opposite the shoulder and the hip, the bases of support for the arms and legs. The median or axial part of the skeleton of the trunk, extends from the under side of the occipital bone 0, to the lower end of the trunk itself, C ; it is named the spine (spina, thorn), from the series of projecting bony processes, hence called spinous processes, which are found along the middle line behind ; it is composed of a series of irregularly shaped bones, piled one upon another, very strongly held together by peculiar joints, and yet capable, for the most part, of undergoing slight intermediate movements, amongst others, a limited movement of rotation or turning, and hence they are named vertebrce (vertere, to turn), the entire column being named tlie vertebral column. The