THE JOINTS. 214 flattened, owino- to the slight separation of the contiguous surfaces of the bones below, and they regain their form, when the super-incumbent weight is removed. On the inner border of the foot, the strong and somewhat elastic calcaneo-scaphoid ligament yields and recoils. The calcaneo-cuboid and the other ligaments, as well as the plantar fascia, offer a firmer resistance, in which action, the flexor muscles also assist; when the heel is raised, those muscles, acting on the pro-tarsus and the toes, contribute to relieve thejoints from the extra strain. In free movements of the foot across its transverse articulation, the bending down of the anterior part of the tarsus, or pro-tarsus, is accompanied by an inward movement, and its re-elevation by an outward movement, both being permitted by the prolongation of the convex and concave astragalo-scaphoid articular surfaces, in an oblique direction, downwards and inwards, and by the comparatively plane calcaneo-cuboid joint; these move- ments involve also a slight rotation of the socket of the scaphoid on the head of the astragalus, by which, the anterior portion of the foot has its inner border either raised or lowered, and the sole inverted or everted. Simple outward and inward movements are here resisted by the great width of this transverse articulation. Supposing the foot to he free, the movements at the astragalo-calcaneal articulation consist of a backward and forward motion, of a horizontal rotatory motion, and of a lateral motion of the os calcis, with the rest of the foot, beneath the astragalus. These motions are so associated, that the part of tbe foot below and beyond the astragalus, may be carried forwards, outwards and upwards, or backwards, inwards and downwards, the sole being everted in the former and inverted in the latter movements, both being always associated and harmonised with the movements occurring in tlie transverse tarsal joint. When tlie foot in fixed, movements, reciprocal with those just described, take place, namely, movements of tlie astragalus and the os calcis upon the sca])hoid and cuboid, and of the astragalus upon the os calcis. It is by these, that the foot is adapted to vmeven surfaces of the ground, whilst the leg, with the astra- galus locked between the malleoli, is enabled to be inclined sideways at various angles. Tlie Ankle Joint.—The strong hinge joint, formed at the cmlde,^g?,. 78 to 82, has its capsule strengthened, in front, by a broad and thin anterior ligament, which passes from the astragalus to the tibia, and blends with the lateral ligaments. A somewhat thinner 'posterior ligament connects these bones behind; but a stronger portion ties the astragalus to the fibida, being- attached to the deep depression, seen, from behind, on the external malleolus. As always occurs with hinge joints, the lateral ligaments are very strong. The internal lateral, figs. 79, 81, 82, named from its shape the deltoid liga- ment, (A, the Greek letter, delta), has its apex fixed around the summit and