332 THE MUSCLES. border or pillar of the external abdominal ring, an opening in the aponeurosi?, through which the cord passes; the inner pillar, thinner, flattened, and also formed by the aponeurosis, is fixed to the front of the symphysis pubis, its fibres interlacing with those of the opposite side, whilst other strengthening fibres, named intercolumnar, cross over and above the ring. From the symphysis pubis, upwards along the middle line of the abdomen, to the xiphoid cartilage, is the linea alba, already mentioned as formed by the blending of all the aponeurotic structures in this situation. It is a white band, wider above than below, and presents, at the junction of i ts lower two-fifths with its upper three- fifths, a lozenge-shaped depression, in the middle of which is the scar, named the umbilicus. The linea alba separates the inner borders of the two recti muscles, right and left, forming an intermuscular marking between them. On the outer border of each muscle, is a vertical curved white line, convex outwardly, reaching from the pubes to the eighth rib, and named the linea semilunaris, ; this corresponds with the line along which the aponeurosis of the internal oblique splits, to form the sheath of the rectus muscle. Some distance out- side each linea semilunaris, but curved in the opposite direction, is the un- dulating border of the fleshy portion of the external oblique itself. Crossing between the linea alba and the lineae semilunares are the linecetransversw, horizontal but slightly depressed mark- ings, situated in pairs, opposite to certain tendinous intersections or inscrip- tions belonging to the recti muscles, which are here attached to the under side of the aponeurosis ; one pair of these lines always diverges from a little above the umbilicus; they are homologous with the abdominal ribs of the crocodile, which, indeed, are supported on a longitudinal, cartilaginous, linea alba. Rectus abdominis, figs. 154, 166, Enclosed, in its upper three-fourths. Pig. 154.—Middle Abdominal Layer, with the Eectus and Pyramidalis.