THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 405 behind this, is a deep notch, and, behind that, a smaller eminence, called the anti-tragus. Beneath the anti-tragus depends the lobule, the part through which ear-rings are worn. The frame-work of the auricle consists of a convoluted cartilage, fig. 187, the form and surfaces of which, correspond closely with those of this very variably shaped organ ; but it does not extend into the dependent part or lobule, which, composed of dense areolar and fatty tissue, is soft and flexible. Certain fissures in the cartilage are occupied by fibrous tissue; the cartilage itself is prolonged, in the form of an incomplete tube, down the meatus, to become attached to the lip of the bony meatus, and it is, further, connected by liga- ments with the mastoid process and the zygoma. Small, intrinsic, auricular muscles, composed of a few fasciculi only, are found on the tragus and helix, and one larger fleshy bundle forms a transverse muscle behind the concha. The entire auricle is covered with a fine smooth skin. The entrance to the meatus is sometimes protected by long hairs growing from the eminence in front of that opening. Attrahens, attollens, and retrahens aurem, figs. 186, 187, The attrahens, and attollens,superficial; small, thin, fan-shaped, composed of pale fasciculi; converging downwards. Aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, the attrahens in front of, the attollens above the ear the former, to the fore part, the latter, by a more distinct tendon, to the back of the auricle. The retrahens, superficial; smaller, and darker coloured ; consist- ing of a few, rounded, horizontal bundles. Eoot of the mastoid process back of the concha, by tendinous fibres. These three muscles move the external ear forwards, upwards and backwards, respectively. As a rule, they are not much under the control of the will, but may become so by practice. They may serve to steady or fix the auricle ; but they are comparatively small in man. The Ocular Group, figs. 194, 195.—This group, which is deeply seated, and entirely hidden in the orbit, includes the four recti or straight muscles, and the two oblique muscles, of the eyeball. The levator muscle of the upper eyelid, though situated within the orbit, is not an ocular muscle; it will be described with the palpebral group. The eyeball, or globe of the eye, figs. 194, 195. This is not a simple sphere, but is made up of a very large segment, five-sixths, of a larger sphere, and of a very small segment, one sixth, of a smaller sphere, aflSxed to it in front. The former part corresponds in extent with the opaque-white, sclerotic coat of the eyeball {o-kXtjpos, firm), and the latter part with that of the nearly circular, transparent and prominent cornea (cornu, horn). The eyeball, supported on the optic nerve as on a stalk, is lodged in the orbit, and is only partially visible between the opened eyelids, by which parts, it can be com-