THE JOINTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 227 bone. Some loose tissue intervenes between it and the sheath of the spii:al cord, which is, therefore, undisturbed by the movements -of the spine. The lamince of the moveable vertebrae are connected by the ligamenta suhflava, fig. 95, which extend between them, from Lhe sacrum to the axis. They consist each of two yellow, flattened, lateral bands, separated by a narrow interval opposite the spinous process, and composed of fibres of yellow clastic tissue, which pass almost vertically from vertebra to vertebra. They are thickest in the lumbar region, thinner and longer in the dorsal region, broad yet weaker between the cervical vertebrse. The spinous processes of the vertebras are connected by thin membranous interspinous ligaments, fig. 91, extending between them, from their roots to their tips. A strong longitudinal cord, named the stipra-spinous ligament, fig. 91, also reaches over the spinous processes, as high as the seventh cervical vertebra ; it is thicker and broader in * the loins than in the back; some of its fibres pass from the tip of one spine to that of another, others pass over three or four spines. From the spine of the seventh cervical ver- tebra, or vertebra prominens, the supra-spinous ligament is continuous with the ligamentum nuchce, a thin, elastic, fibrous membrane, which ex- tends along the median line, as high as the occipital protuberance, and gives off processes from its anterior surface to the spines of the other cer- vical vertebrae, fig. 190, n. Inter-transverse ligaments connect the transverse processes of the ver- tebrae, being largest in the lumbar region, smaller in the back, and either very slightly developed in, or absent from the neck. Lastly, the gliding joints formed between the surfaces of the articular processes of the moveable vertebrae, concave and convex in the loins, but planiform in the back and neck, are held together by proper capsules, fig. 91, which, in all cases loose, are most so in the cervical region. Movements.—Commencing from the upright posture, forward bending of the moveable part of the vertebral column is most free in the back, i.e. in the middle and lower part of the dorsum ; it is less free in the loins, and least so in the neck. Bending backwards is most free in the neck, nearly as much so in the loins, but only slight in the back. Hence in stooping for- wards, the neck and loins become merely flattened, whilst the back is strongly arched ; whereas in bending backwards, the neck and loins become deeply Q 2 Fig. 94.—Posterior view of the bodies of four vertebra;, one dorsal and three lumbar, to show posterior common ligament. Fig. 95.—Anterior view of the arches of the same vertebrse, to shov^r the ligamenta sub- flava between the laminae.