U6 THE BONES. humerus. The apex, somewhat thinner than the rest, is turned forwards, and gives attachment to the coraco-acromial ligament. Along its inner concave border, is found the narrow, obliquely cut, smooth, oval, articular surface, directed inwards, forwards, and a little upwards, by which it is articulated with the thin, flattened acromial end of the clavicle. The free outer border of the acromion process is marked by indentations for the origin of the sub- divisions of the deltoid muscle, whilst its inner border is roughened for the attachment of the trapezius ; between them, is a triangular subcutaneous portion of the bone. The glenoid cavity, fig. 47, to which the description returns, is supported on the neck of the scapula, at the junction of the clavicular and axillary borders, at the part where the three fossae meet, where the dorsal and ventral surfaces come together, and between the roots of the coracoid, acromion, and spinous processes. It forms, indeed, a sort of central point, from which the bone expands, inwards, backwards, and downwards, and around which are placed, as if for its protection, the strong beak-like, coracoid process, in front and within ; the broad, arch-like, acromion process above; and the outer curved, free edge of the spinous process, behind. The glenoid cavity (ry'K7]vrj; the eye) is a shallow, ovoid, depression, having its long diameter almost vertical, and its larger end turned downwards. Its inner border presents a slight indentation, a little above its middle, and is somewhat more prominent than the outer border ; its lower edge is decidedly projected beyond the upper one. If it be looked at, with its long diameter placed horizontally, its shape resembles that of the open- ing between the eyelids, the narrow end being prolonged, so as to resemble the inner corner of the eye-lids, which likewise extends beyond their general elliptical aperture. The slightly elevated margin of the glenoid cavity has, attached to it, a yellowish fibrous rim, called the glenoid ligament, which serves slightly to deepen the socket; at the top of the cavity, this rim becomes continuous with the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle, which arises from a slight prominence of the bone at that point. As already stated, the long head of the triceps takes origin from the neck of the scapula, just below the glenoid cavity; but, with these two exceptions, the neck of the bone is free from muscular attachments ; so also is a small adjacent part of the sub- scapular, infra-spinous, and supra-spinous fossae. The glenoid cavity is so shallow, and is so limited in extent, when compared with the size of the head of the humerus, which moves within it, that it offers a remarkable contrast, in both these respects, with the large and deep acetabulum, into which the head of the femur is received. Whilst, too, the axis of the acetabulum is directed downwards, with a very slight inclination outwards and forwards, the axis of the glenoid cavity is directed outwards, with a decided inclination forwards and a little upwards. The lower lip of the cavity, which corresponds with the broader part of the socket, projecting beneath the head of the humerus, serves