385 SUEFACE-FORMS OF THE UPPER LIMB. accurately the fleshy masses, formed by their short muscles respectively. The ball of the thumb is not only larger and rounder than that of the little finger, but it is less abruptly defined at the wrist; it seems, moreover, as if the thumb were set on to the rest of the hand. The ball of the little finger, smaller and narrower, appears to form rather a part of the hand itself; but, besides this, it is sharply defined from the wrist, by the somewhat pointed eminence, which has been already indicated, as constituting the heel of the hand ; this is placed just below the pisiform bone, to which the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris descends, like the tendo Achillis to the os calcis in the foot. Thus characterised, the ball of the little finger resembles a narrow heel; but this is, on the whole, an animal character, reminding one of the form of a monkey's paw, and, accordingly, it is a peculiarity, to be concealed rather than exaggerated, in the human hand. The wide adductor of the thumb imparts great breadth to the corresponding part of the palm, and gives rise to a ridge which passes across the front of the web of skin, which is placed between this ridge and the prominence produced by the first dorsal interosseous muscle, already described. The webs between the fingers, generally, reach down further on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect, presenting well-defined margins, whereas, on the back of the hand, they form interdigital slanting furrows. Across the ball of the little finger, the palmaris brevis passes, and when in action, puckers in the skin along its inner side, and raises the inner border of the palm, so as to deepen its hollow, and thus help to form ' the drinking-cup of Diogenes,' produced mainly, however, by the action of the opponens muscles of the little finger and the thumb. The inner part of the palm of the hand, smooth in its quiescent state, is made, as it were, to frown, in anger or fear, but especially during fright and anguish, by the palmaris brevis, which might be called the corrugator palmce. This muscle has been jocosely named ' the guinea muscle,'' being presumed to be employed in the dexterous capture of the fee, as this is deftly transferred from the hand of the retiring patient, to the palm of the consultee. The integuments are thicker behind and on the outer side, and much more delicate on the inner side and in front of the upper limb, excepting in the hand, where the reverse is the case. At the back of the elbow, the skin presents the redundancy and looseness common on the aspect of extension of hinge-joints, so that, when the limb is straightened, it is thrown into folds, one of which, passing softly and obliquely from the inner to the outer side, just above the elbow, reminds one of the similar oblique fold above the knee, and must not be taken for a muscular form. In the front of the elbow, the skin is very thin, to admit of being closely folded. At the back of the wrists, it presents slight transverse wrinkles, but in front, it shows two very distinct oblique lines, just above the well-marked indented border, which limits the commenceme>nt of the palm of the hand. The palm itself is traversed by C C