286 THE MUSCLES. surface of the fibula, adjacent part of the interosseou'^ membrane, intermus- cular septa on each side, and fascia of the leg the muscle forms, on the first phalanx of each of the four outer toes, a broad tendinous expansion, which' divides, opposite to the first interphalangeal joint, into three slips, a central one, inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and two lateral slips, which pass over the bevelled sides of the head of the first phalanx, again unite on the back of the second, and run on to be fixed to the base of the third phalanx. The broad expansion belonging to the second, third and fourth toes, is joined, on the first phalanx, by the tendons of the short extensor muscle, and by those of the lumbricales and interosseous muscles. The splitting of the tendon over the first phalangeal articulation, favours the extreme flexion of that joint. This muscle, with the short extensor, extends all the joints of the toes, that at the base included, thus liberating the toes from holding on to any surface of support. It also extends the protarsus, flexes the foot on the leg, raises the point of the foot from the ground in walking, and assists in steadying the leg upon the foot, in standing. Peroneus tertius, or anticus, figs. 133, 134, Superficial; short, small, flattened, semi-penniform, ending obliquely in a slender anterior tendon, which widens out again below; vertical in the leg, closely associated with the outer border of the long extensor, of which some regard it as a part, then, oblique downwards and forwards beneath the anterior annular ligament, and along the outer side of the tarsus. Lower fourth of the anterior portion of the inner surface of the fibula, lower part of the interosseous membrane, and intermuscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis dorsal aspect of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. This muscle, which is sometimes wanting, and sometimes gives off adventitious tendinous slips, helps, in walking, to extend the protarsus, to flex the foot on the leg, and, in standing, to steady the leg upon the foot; it also, in conjunction with the two other peronei muscles, elevates the outer border of the foot, chiefly at the transverse joint of the tarsus, but also at the astragalo-calcaneal and ankle joints, and so everts the sole. The Outer Group, fig. 134, &c.—This consists of the short and long peroneal muscles, so named because they are placed upon the perone or fibula {irspovrj, fibula, a clasp). Unlike the peroneus tertius or anticus, just described, their tendons pass beJdnd the external malleolus to reach the foot. Peroneus brevis, ^gs. 133, 134, 137, Partly covered, but super- ficial both in front of and behind the tendon of the peroneus lougus, which lies upon it; elongated, flat and penniform, its fibres ending obliquely on the borders of a rather broad, flat, median tendon ; vertical in the lower two thirds of the leg, covering the fibula, between the extensor longus, the peroneus tertius and the back of the external malleolus in front, and the soleus muscle