THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM. 151 corresponding eminences, of which, the second, third, and fifth are more obvious than the fourth, which corresponds with the ring-finger. In fleshy hands, however, these eminences are converted into depressions, especially when the fingers are approximated; they are necessarily plainer when the palm is spread out flat, and disappear when it is curved or hollowed. On the palmar aspect of the fingers, the bony forms are entirely obscured. As to the thumb, the base of the metacarpal bone projects considerably beyond the trapezium, and forms a well-marked prominence, a short distance below the styloid process of the radius ; from this point, the broad back of this metacarpal bone is covered only by tendons, and its lower end, with its lateral tubercles, gives rise, at the first knuckle of the thumb, not to a rounded contour, like the heads of the other metacarpals, but to a flattened one, with two projecting little knobs at each side. On the palmar aspect, the bone is completely concealed, but the outer sesamoid bone forms a prominent point. The phalanges determine the general forms of the free portion of the thumb ; the second or last knuckle of the thumb, has, when bent, a deeply excavated contour, in conformity with the strongly marked condyloid and trochlear form of the head of the first phalanx, which constitutes the prominent part of this joint. The Bones of the Ceanium. The cranium consists of the occipital, the two parietal, the frontal, the two temporal, the sphenoid, and the ethmoid bones. Of these bones, the occipital, parietals, temporals, and frontal, are relatively large in man. The Occipital Bone.—The ocdpital bone or occiput, figs. 61, 62, 0, may be first described, as it is the lowest bone of the cranium, by which the head is joined to the neck. As its name implies, it is not only the lowest, but the hindmost bone of the cranium ; yet it forms a very large portion of the under surface or base, and only a small part of the back of the skull. It is shaped somewhat like an ovate leaf, bent on itself, and having its narrow or stalk end turned forwards almost horizontally into the base of the cranium, and its broader, expanded part, directed nearly vertically upwards, and a little backwards, in the occipital region. Its concavity is, of course, turned towards the interior, and its convexity towards the exterior of the skull. It is the outer surface of this, and of the other cranial and facial bones, that will almost exclusively occupy attention here. The numerous foramina in the base of the skull, for blood-vessels and nerves, need not be described. Along the line where the horizontal and vertical portions of the occipital bone meet, is a strongly marked, curved ridge, the superior curved line, figs. 61, 62, I, which extends right and left, and presents, in the middle line, the prominent occipital protuberance, figs. 61 e, 62, 0.