THE SHOULDER GIRDLE. Ill muscle, which also overlaps the upper sm-face. Between the parts thus covered by muscular attachments, this, the narrowest part of the bone, is practically subcutaneous, having no muscle lying over it, excepting the thin cutaneous muscle known as the platysma, which has some slight connexion with the periosteum of the clavicle and the deep fascia of the neck. The inner or sternal end of the collar-bone, is thick and clubbed, much larger than the part of the sternum on which it rests, with which, as well as with its fellow of the opposite side, it is connected by very strong liga- ments ; its articular surface which is directed inwards, with a slight inclina- tion downwards and forwards, is oblong from above downwards and backwards, and slightly concave from before backwards, whilst, from above downwards, it is somewhat convex. It is thus adapted, especially at its lower part, to the oppositely modelled articular surface of the sternum; but, in the living state, both bones are thickly covered with cartilage, and an inter-articular fibro- cartilage exists between them. The projecting border of this end of the clavicle, which overlaps the sternal facet, gives attachment to very strong- ligaments ; the joint permits of a rolling, as well as of a gliding movement, whilst it is very strong. The outer ox acromial extremity of the clavicle, which is broad, and flattened from above downwards, and, for the most part, subcutaneous, curves forwards, and ends in a narrow oval articular surface, which looks obliquely downwards, forwards and outwards, to meet the thin inner border of the acromion process of the scapula, with which it is articulated, but above the level of which, it is important to note that it slightly projects, sometimes even as a rounded eminence. The curves of the collar-bone vary in different persons, even in the adult. It becomes more strongly ciu-ved, as well as thicker, in those who do much laborious work; and the right collar-bone, for the same reason, is often more curved than the left one; in left-handed persons, the reverse is the case. The increased curvature has been said to affect chiefly the scapular portion of the bone, but the enlarged sternal end also becomes increased in size, by unusual labour. The Scapula.—The scapulce or shoulder-bones proper, figs. 26, 27, the two remarkable, broad, flat, thin, triangular bones, which are articulated to the outer ends of the clavicles, are also suspended by various muscles, which reach them from the trunk, and even from the head. They form the outer and the posterior prominences of the shoulder, being placed, like two wings, on the back of the thorax, covering a space, on each side, extending, longitu- dinally, from near the first, to a little below the seventh rib, and, transversely, from just outside the angles of the ribs, beyond the sides of the thorax, to the back and upper part of the arm-pits, where they furnish the sockets for the ^irm-bones. As the deep surface of the scapula is not so concave as the thorax