TH^i THIGH-BOXE. 65 right angle with the shaft, the head of the bone descending to, or below, the level of the trochanter, and thus contributing to a diminution of the stature. The neck of the femur serves obviously to separate the upper part of the thigh from the middle line, to increase the freedom of the movements of the lower limbs, to give greater space for the muscles on the inside of the thigh, and greater leverage to those which pass from the pelvis to the thigh. The neck of the femur is compressed from before backwards, being thinner in that direction than from above downwards; its upper and lower borders are con- tinuous, the one with the greater, the other with the lesser trochanter. The upper boi'der, slightly concave, is shorter and less oblique than the lower border, which is less concave, longer, and more oblique ; it is also somewhat thicker, owing, as is seen on a section, to an accumulation of compact bony tissue along the under side of the junction of the neck with the shaft. The anterior surface of the neck is somewhat flattened, but the hinder surface is slightly hollowed, and at its upper and outer part, just beneath an overhanging portion of the greater trochanter, is seen the digital fossa, already mentioned ; near this, on the upper border of the neck, is an even surface, over which the tendon of the obturator externus glides. The head of the femur is the smooth rounded part, which surmounts tlie neck. It forms the upper articular end of the bone, being its highe>t point, rather more than half of it being placed above the level of the summit of tlie greater trochanter. It is said to form about two-thirds of a spheroidal ball; but, more exactly, its upper and its anterior surfaces are somewhat flatter, or form parts of a larger spheroid than the lower and the posterior surfaces. Its margin extends further on to the neck of the bone above than below; and also further in front than behind; hence, the articular surface has an uneven or waviug border, and presents a pointed prolongation, both in front and behind. The head of the femur is almost entirely received into the acetabulum, a deep socket of the hip-bone, thus forming the largest and most complete baU-and-socket joint in the body. At a point on the inner side of the head of the femur, a little below and also behind its centre, is a small rough, bifid, depression, for the attachment of the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. Opposite this point, the head of the bone is, however, more prominent than elsewhere, and corresponds with a non-articular depressed portion of the acetabulum. Surface-fm'ms dependent oh the Femur. Although the shaft of the femur is everywhere covered by muscles, and is, therefore, at no part directly subcutaneous, yet it imparts its own curved form to the thigh, which is evidently more convex in front than on any other aspect. This form gives an appearance of great strength to the human tliigh, notwitli- standing its unusual length as compared with that of mammalia generally. F