218 THE JOINTS. and lined by the S3movial membrane, moves over the side of the condyle of tlie femur, or the bone moves beneath the ligament; it is, however, attached to the margin of the internal semilunar cartilage, "which is thus fixed to the head of the tibia. The external lateral ligament, figs. 83 to 85, a strong rounded cord, passes downwards, from the tubercle on the outer con- dyle of the femur, to the head of the fibula; it is shorter than the internal lateral ligament, is placed a little further back, and is not connected with the external semilunar cartilage. Behind it, a second, or short external lateral ligament, usually passes from the outer condyle of the femur, to the styloid process of the fibula, being connected with the capsule and with the tendon of the popliteus muscle ; its points of attachment, both above and below, are so prominent that, contrary to the general rule as to ligaments, it may often be recognised on the surface, more especially when the knee is forcibly straightened or over-extended, or when it is bent and the leg rotated inwards. Placed deeply at the back of the joint, and projecting into it, but still outside the synovial membrane, are two very strong fibrous bauds, named the crucial ligaments, figs. 84 to 87, because they decussate or cross each other after the manner of the lines of the letter X. The anterior, or external, crucial ligament, figs. 85, 87, ft^ extends from the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the internal articular facet, upwards, backwards, and outwards, to the upper and back part of the inter-condyloid fossa, and to the inner or deep surface of the external condyle of the femur ; it is connected, below, with the fore part of the external semi-lunar cartilage. The posterior, or internal, crucial ligament, figs. 84, 86, and 87, **, extends from the depres- sion behind the spine of the tibia, in front of the posterior ends of both semi- lunar cartilages, upwards, forwards, and inwards, in a, radiating manner, to the outer or deep surface of the inner condyle of the femur, as far as to the fore part of the inter-condyloid fossa. These crucial ligaments not only tie the bones together, but specially resist the displacement of either bone on tlie other, in a backward or forward direction. The inter-articular or semi-lunar cartilages, figs. 85,86, are two crescentic fibro-cartilaginous plates, which cover the borders only of the two articular facets of the tibia; their extremities, fixed in front of and behind the spine of that bone, are fibrous, but the parts between the articular ends of the tibia and femur, are cartilaginous. Their convex borders are thick, and connected with the capsule ; their concave borders are thin, and free in the joint. Their upper surfaces are hollowed, thus increasing the depth of the con- cavities, on which the condyles of the femur rest; their under surfaces, in contact with the tibia, are flattened. The internal cartilage is almost semi- circular, but is somewhat elongated from before backwards; its convex border is attached to the internal lateral ligament, to some tendinous fibres belong- ing to the semi-membranosus muscle, and also, by short, so-called coronary