THE BONES OF THE FOOT. Sa a broad, double, concave articular surface, which is adapted to the distal ex- tremity of the second phalanx. The second or middle phalcmcjes of the four outer toes, being interposed between the ungual and the proximal plialanges, are necessarily provided with articular surfaces at each end; the anterior one is an indistinctly marked trochlear surface, which is fitted to the double cup and intermediate ridge of the corresponding ungual phalanx; the hinder one is a concave surface, divided into two by an intermediate ridge, so as to fit the trochlear surface of the distal end of the first phalanx. The second phalanges of the second and third toes only, present a distinct shaft and extremities ; those of the fourth and fifth being not longer, and sometimes even shorter than they are wide. They have lateral and other tubercles, for the attachment of ligaments or tendons, but these are feebly pronounced ; their articular surfaces, at each end, are indistinct; indeed the second and third phalanges of the fifth toe, are, frequently, and those of the fourth toe, occasionally, joined together by bone. The second phalanges have the expanded tendons of the long and short extensor muscles attached to their dorsal surface, but the little toe receives no slip from the short extensor; those of the short flexor muscle, are inserted into tlieir plantar surface. The j^rs^ ov proximal plialanges, placed at the roots of the toes, are the longest. Their shafts are convex on their dorsal surface, flattened from side to side, and narrow and slightly concave longitudinally on their plantar aspect. Their anterior ends are provided with a more or less well-formed trochlear, or pulley-like articular surface, consisting of two eminences or little lateral condyles, and an intermediate hollow ; to these, the hinder ends or bases of the second phalanges are more or less accurately fitted, so as to form hinge- joints. Their hinder ends are widened, and furnished with comparatively deep, concave, articular surfaces, wider from side to side than from above downwards, which are adapted to the convex anterior extremities or heads of the metatarsal bones, the joints thus formed, being ball-and-socket joints. On their under surfaces, are two lateral, longitudinal, ridges, to which the strong sheaths of the flexor tendons of the toes are fixed at the sides; just behind their anterior extremities, are tubercles for the attachment of the lateral ligaments; near their proximal ends, lateral rough surfaces are found, also for the attachment of ligaments and for the tendons of the interosseous and otlier short muscles connected with the toes. The two phalanges of the great toe are larger than those of the thumb. The second phalanx of the great toe, is its terminal or ungual phalanx ; it is, of course, much longer, broader, and thicker, than the ungual phalanges of the other four toes ; its shaft is provided with a smooth dorsum, for the sup- port of its large nail; and its tip is provided with a large rough horse-shoe- shaped eminence, for the attachment of the pulp of the toe ; at its hinder D