228 THE JOINTS. incurved, whilst the back, except in its lower region, is only straightened. Lateral inclination of the spine is roost free in the loins, rather less in the neck, and least in the back. Twisting round the vertical axis or rotation is most free in the npper dorsal region, less so in the neck, and least of all,'or scarcely existing, in the loins. The use of the intervertebral discs is obvious, preventing shock, and permitting limited movement in all directions, after the manner of a closed ball-and-socket joint, above and below each disc. The ligamenta subflava not only connect the vertebral arches and complete the canal, but permit of forward bending, especially in the back, and then assist the muscles, by their elasticity, in straightening the spine, thus saving the expenditure of muscular force. The Atlanto-axial Joints.—The gliding joints formed, one on each side, between the articular processes of the axis and atlas, have thin and loose connecting capsules, stronger in front than behind. Within the ring of the atlas, there is a distinct little ioint, with capsule and synovial membrane, between the front of the odon- ' —--^ -j-oid process of the axis and the arch of the atlas. Behind the odontoid process, is a strong, fiat, curved band, the transverse atlanto-axial liga- Fig. 96.—Posterior view of the transverse atlanto-axial x n • ligament, and its upward and do^^-nward slips, con- ^^^'^^^ fig- 96, passing aciOSs, stituting the cruciform ligament. ^.^^gg ^j^g ^gj,^ of that pro- FiG. 97.—Posterior view of the occipito-axial or odon toid-ligaments, namelr, the central ligament, and the cess, a separate little articular two alar, or check ligaments. ., . ,. , , cavity existing between them ; from its central thickest part- a small slip ascends to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and another passes downwards to the root of the odontoid process ; hence it is named the cruciform ligament, fig. 96. These two vertebrae are also connected, in front, by an anterior atlanto-axial ligament, a thin, loose membrane, strengthened in the middle line, and reaching from the base of the odontoid process to the anterior tubercle of the atlas; and, behind, by an equally thin, loose 'posterior atlanto-axial ligament, which extends between the arches of the bones. The Occipito-axial Ligaments.—The odontoid process of the axis does not touch, nor articulate directly with, the occipital bone; but the two bones are connected by a remarkable ligamentous apparatus, constituting the odontoid ligaments, fig. 97. Tlius, a strong central odontoid ligament (ligamentum suspensorium dentis) passes upwards, from the apex of the odon- toid process to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. On the sides of this, are the lateral or alar odontoid ligaments, or check ligaments, two