THE MUSCLES. 308 gluteus maximus covers the ischial tuberosity behind, in the standing posture; but that process is left uncovered by the muscle, in the sitting position. All three glutei muscles abduct the femur; the gluteus maximus, and the posterior fasciculi of the gluteus medius and minimus, also extend and rotate that bone outwards; but the anterior fibres of the two last-named muscles will, if they can act separately, flex and rotate it inwards. The gluteus maximus also tightens the fascia of the thigh. Acting from below, all three muscles support the pelvis upon the head of the femur, on the outer side of and behind the hip joint, especially when, as in every step, the body is balanced on one lower limb, in which case, they prevent the pelvis and trunk from dropping forwards, or to the opposite side. The anterior portions of the gluteus minimus and medius, flex and rotate the fore part of the pelvis on the thigh, towards their own side; their posterior portions and tlie gluteus maximus rotate it in the opposite direction. Such reciprocal rotatory movements between the pelvis and thigh, and between the thigh and pelvis, occur at every step. When the glutei of both sides act, they prevent the pelvis and trunk from falling forwards, and serve to erect them from the stooping position, especially the glutei maximi, which, accordingly, are characteristically large in Man. The fascia lata and its tensor muscle, figs. 140, 146. This fascia, the proper fascia of the thigh, which is continuous with that of the leg, is fixed, below, to the tuberosities of the tibia, the head of the fibula, and the condyles of the femur; whilst, above, it is strongly attached to Poupart's ligament, the front of the pubes, the pubic arch, the tuberosity of the ischium, the sacro- sciatic ligaments, the side of the coccyx and sacrum, and the whole length of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, to Poupart's ligament again. It thus forms a continuous and firm investment around the thigh ; but, besides this, it sends inwards, deep processes and intermuscular septa. About the knee, it is strengthened by expansions from the adjacent tendons, and presents transverse bands named retinacula, which are fixed to the borders of the patella ; but it is separated from the front of that bone by an intervening synovial bursa. It passes across, and so encloses the popliteal space, or ham, and holds together the muscles and the hamstring tendons, which bound that space. Its two principal intermuscular septa are attached along the two lips of the linea aspera, and the two lower and upper lines diverging from it; the outer septum passes between the vastus extemus and the short head of the biceps; the inner one, thinner, separates the vastus internus from the adductor group; other finer intermuscidar partitions also exist, and the sartorius especially, as is needed from its oblique direction, has a long and very perfect sheath. Above, the fascia is connected deeply with the capsule of the hipjoint, which is strengthened and supported by it in front. It is thickest and strongest down the outer side of the thigh, where, extending