209 THE JOINTS OF THE LOWER LIMB. attached, have been fully described with the bones. Attention has now to be directed specially to the ligaments ; but the shape and connexions of the inter-avticular fibro-cartilages, where these exist, and also any peculiarities presented by the capsule and synovial membrane, invite examination. The names of the several ligaments are derived, commonly, from those of the bones or parts of bones, with which they are connected, but, not unfrequently, from the side or aspect of the joint or limb, on which they are placed, and, occa- sionally, from their special use or office. A consideration of the position and points of attachment of the special ligaments of any joint, will usually lead to just conclusions, as to the mode in which they restrain or check its move- ments. The extent or relative freedom of those movements can easily be studied on one's own body. LhhUS ^Wt The Joints op the Lower Limb. The Phalangeal Joints.—These small ginglymoid articulations, two in all four outer toes, and one in the great toe, figs. 77 to 80, have no proper dorsal ligament, the thin capsule being here merely strengthened by an expansion of the corresponding extensor tendon of the toes. Two strong lateral ligaments are attached to the sides of the phalanges; these are blended with the plantar ligament, a dense fibro-cartilaginous structure, intimately united with the sheath of the flexor tendons on the under side of the toes. This strong plantar structure is fixed especially to the more remote phalanx, so as to deepen the socket for the head of the nearer one, on which the distant one freely plays. It has been likened to the sesamoid bones. Movements.—Flexion is here more free than extension; and, as in the fingers, it is very free in the first joints, so that the toes are brought well down upon the ground. Forced extension in the last joints, is more free than in the fingers. The Metatarso-phalangeal Joints.—In these little ball-and- socket joints, figs. 77 to 80, as in the phalangeal joints, the place of a dorsal ligament is supplied by tlie capsule, strengthened by an expansion of the cor- responding extensor tendon, which covers in the joint. The plantar liga^ ment is here also a thick, fibro-cartilaginous structure, attached to the sheath of the flexor tendons, to the lateral ligaments, and to the transverse meta- tarsal ligament. It is fixed firmly to the first phalanx, but only loosely to the metatarsal bone, and helps to deepen the articular cavity of the former, for the reception of the head of the latter. In the large joint of the great toe, the plantar ligament is thicker, and contains two sesamoid bones, winch are themselves strongly bound together, and glide beneath the grooved head P