THE MUSCLES. 412 Levator labii superioris, alceque nasi, figs. 186, 187, 193, Super- ficial, except where overlapped above, by the orbicularis palpebrarum; long, thin, triangular; downwards and slightly outwards, between the nose and the cheek. Nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, by a pointed end by two slips, an inner, smaller one, into the ala of the nose, an outer one, into the upper lip, blending with adjacent muscles. It raises the upper lip and the wing of the nose, and draws the latter outwards, so as to dilate the nostril. If the mouth be held closed, this muscle dilates the nose, without moving the lip. It is the muscle of elation, and indignation. The Labial Group, figs. 186, 187, 193, 197.—This is a numerous group, the lips constituting the most moveable features in the face. It consists of the levator of the upper lip, the levator of the corner of the mouth or canine muscle, the greater and smaller zygomatics, the depressor of the corner of the mouth or triangular muscle of the mouth, the depressor of the lower lip or quadrate muscle of the chin, the levator of the lower lip or levator of the chin, the orbicular muscle of the mouth, and lastly, the risorius or laughing muscle. The Lips. These very soft, flexible, and mobile parts, unlike the features already noticed, namely the ears, eyelids, and nose, have no cartilaginous framework in their interior, but are composed chiefly of interlacing muscular fasciculi, covered, on their inside, by a loose mucous membrane provided with scattered glands, and, externally, by a more closely adherent skin, which, on the red border of the lip, is very thin, and resembles a somewhat dry mucous membrane. Levator labii superioris, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial, except where covered by the orbicularis palpebrarum, above; thin, flat, square; nearly vertical, between the orbit and the mouth. Front of the superior maxillary and malar bones, above the infra-orbital foramen orbicularis oris, and other adjacent muscles of the upper lip. It raises the upper lip, draws it slightly forwards, and, with the other levator muscles, increases the prominence of the cheek beneath the orbit, and helps to develop the oblique naso-labial and the bucco-labial ridge and furrow, which pass across the direction of its fasciculi, between the cheek on the one side, and the nose and upper lip on the other. The levators of the upper lip concur in producing an expression of sadness or grief. Levator anguli oris, or caninus, &gs. 186, 187, 193, Deep-seated; short, thick, strong; oblique, downwards and outwards. Canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, below the infra-orbital foramen corner of the mouth, blending with the orbicularis and other neighbouring muscles, and decussating with fasciculi of the depressor of the corner of the mouth, so as to reach the lower lip. It raises the outer part of the upper lip, and, with