THE BONES. 106 this portion of the sternum, at its line of junction with the upper portion of tlie bone. Sometimes this middle piece of the sternum is perforated along its centre, as if it were composed of a double row of conjoined pieces. Its anterior surface gives attachment to both of the great pectoral muscles, a narrow portion of bone between them, being subcutaneous. Behind, near its lower end, are the origins of the triangulares sterni muscles. The upper part of the sternum, shorter, broader, thicker, and stronger than the rest of the bone, keeping in view the comparison of the whole bone with a sword, is named the manubrium or handle. It is shaped like an inverted triangle, with its corners truncated. Its lower and narrow part is joined, by an oval, roughened, surface, thinly encrusted with cartilage, to the upper end of the middle part of the bone, contributing, on the two sides, the upper halves of the notches for the second costal cartilages, which are always attached opposite the prominent transverse ridges, formed at the line of junction of the first and second parts of the sternum. At the summit of the diverging borders of the manubrium, which here becomes wider and thicker, are the two slightly concave surfaces of junction, not of articulation, with the costal cartilages of the first rib, these cartilages usually coalescing, and very rarely forming a joint, with the manubrium. To the anterior sm'face of the manubrium, is fixed the sternal tendon of origin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle ; below this tendon, is a curved ridge or line, marking the border of a por- tion of the pectoralis major muscle, which arises from the remaining lower part of this surface; between the muscles of the two sides, there is, however, a lozenge-shaped, subcutaneous portion of the manubrium. The upper border of the manubrium, which is directed slightly backwards, presents a deep notch, named the suprasternal notch or furcula {furca, a fork), which enables the neck to be bent forward more freely, without causing pressure on the windpipe. On each side of the furcula, is an obliquely placed, smooth, and nearly flat oval articular surface, directed upwards, outwards, and a little backwards, slightly concave from above downwards, and convex from before backwards, on which the inner articular end of the corresponding clavicle rests; it thus furnishes the sole osseous basis of support, for the shoulder-girdle and upper limb. The concave posterior surface of the manubrium, gives origin to the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles. The entire sternum, fixed in between the upper seven costal cartilages, has its anterior surface turned a little upwards as well as forwards, and its posterior surface, accordingly, a little downwards as well as backwards ; moreover, the bone is directed obliquely, downwards and forwards, so as to aid in increasing the capacity of the thorax. Besides this, it is to be noted that the anterior surfaces of the manubrium, of the body, and of the xiphoid cartilage, re- spectively, are in different planes, so that a slight bend is recognisable, opposite the junction of the manubrium and body of the bone, whilst the entire bone