194 THE BONES. compared with that of men. The length of the neck, in women, especially at its lower part, is, however, greatly dependent on the lowering of the sternum and of the shoulder-girdles, owing to the very marked obliquity of the upper ribs, fig. 191. The thorax, figs. 64, 66, is not only slighter in its construction, smaller in all directions, and of less capacity, but it is proportionally shorter ; it is, com- paratively speaking, somewhat larger in its upper half, owing, perhaps, to its being habitually more or less compressed in its lower third, by tight costume. The ribs themselves, being shorter, necessarily form parts of smaller curves, and thus the thorax is more barrel-shaped. The upper ribs, as just stated, are much more oblique, and so are the lower ones, partly, perhaps, from the effects of com- pression. The abdomino-thoracic arch, or angle, formed by the lower borders of the costal cartilages, from the tenth to the seventh, meeting at the xiphoid cartilage, is much more pointed, or acute, than in the male. As the relative widths of the upper border of the pelvis, or abdomino-pelvic arch, in the two sexes, are reversed, it is evident that the external form of the abdominal area must be narrower below than above, in the male, whereas it is wider below, in the female figure. Poupart's ligament, the tendinous cord which passes from the anterior superior spinous process of the iliumto the spine of the os pubis, is more slanting in the male, but nearer to the horizontal line in the female. The sternum, figs. 64, 66, in the female, is not only smaller, but is re- latively shorter, and, as just stated, owing to the greater obliquity of the upper ribs, it is placed lower down, in relation to the vertebral column, figs. 190, 191. The manubrium is narrower, and the supra-sternal notch, or furcula, both smaller and more shallow, so that it becomes only slightly perceptible on the surface; but the change of direction between the manubrium and the second piece of the sternum, is more gentle, and this, added to the shortness of the bone, makes the front of the thorax smoother and more prominent, though narrower than in man. The clavicles, figs. 64, 66, are not only weaker, but straigbter or less curved in the female than in the male, and although they are attached to a less elevated sternum, at their inner ends, they are more nearly horizontal, or less upwardly inclined at the shoulders, in consequence of these falling lower and more forwards, owing to the very oblique direction of the upper ribs. The scapulae are thinner, and their processes less developed ; the alse are narrower, and more pointed below ; the ridges on the sub-scapular fossa are less marked ; the projecting plate of the spine is shorter, and runs more obliquely down- wards on the back of the bone; their posterior border is often concave in outline, instead of presenting a convex or obtuse-angled margin ; this border also deviates more from the spine below. Unlike what is observed in regard to the pelvic girdle, the shoulder girdle, figs. 64, 66, is relatively smaller and less developed in the female skeleton, and to these conditions, as well as to the