THE JOINTS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 215 borders of the internal malleolus, whence its fibres radiate to their insertions, some passing forwards, beyond the astragalus, to the scaphoid bone, and to the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, others downwards, partly to the astragalus, but chiefly to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, and others backwards to the astragalus. The external lateral ligament, figs. 78, 81, 82, consists of three distinct bands, which descend from the front, tip, and back of the ex- ternal malleolus; they are attached, respectively, the anterior band, the shortest, to the astragalus in front of its external articular surface ; the middle band, tlie longest, which passes beyond the astragalus, to a tubercle about the centre of the outer surface of the os calcis; and the posterior band, the strongest and most deeply seated, to the back of the astragalus, behind its external articular surface. As is usual, in joints possessing con- siderable freedom of motion, some fatty tissue outside the looser parts of the capsule, serves to fill up any slight interspaces between the bones, ligaments and tendons, in front of and be- hind the joint. Movements. — Extension is more free than flexion. Owing to the relative width of the troch- lear surface of the astragalus in front, this bone is closely fitted into the tibio-fibular socket in the rectangular or flexed posi- tion, that is, in the position in which the foot ordinarily bears most weiofht: but when the foot Fig. 81.—Articular surfaces of the Os Calcis and Astragalus belonging to the Transverse Joint of the Tarsus ; the Ankle Joint laid open in front. Fig. 82.—Vertical transverse section through the Astragalo-calcaneal Joint, and the Ankle Joint. *, the Interosseous Astragalo-calcaneal ligament. is extended, the narrower part of the astragalus lies in the socket, and then the slight lateral movements noticeable at this joint, become more evident. Nevertheless, these movements are arrested, at the limit of forced exten- sion, by the tightening of the ligaments, as occurs in standing on tiptoe. Owing to certain obliquities of the articular surfaces at this joint, the foot is slightly adducted towards the middle line of the body, when it is straightened; but it is abducted or turned outwards, when it is brought up towards the leg. When the foot is fixed, reciprocal opposite movements occur, so that, in standing with the foot flat on the ground, the leg is inclined inwards at the ankle, whereas, in standing on tiptoe, the leg falls more directly over the foot. The lateral movements occurring at the astragalo-calcaneal articulation, obviously save the ankle joint from lateral strains; and as the