12 INTEODUCTIOW. training of the artist's mind, and keep it aln-east of modern progress. The artist of the future must be scientific; and provided that he retains those great gifts, an innate love of the Beautiful, a true sympathy with nature, and the creative faculty of the poet, then no amount of scientific knowledge can ever over-burden him ; but, on the contrary, it will contribute powerfully to strengthen his ability to embody liis conceptions, and will thus assist in elevating him to the highest position in his art. In the Lectures, which I have for more than twenty years delivered on Anatomy to Art Students, as Lecturer in the Grovernment Schools of Design, and as Professor in the Royal Academy of Arts, I have endeavoured to in- culcate and exemplify these principles; and in the present volume, I trust, to reach a wider circle than I have hitherto addressed. An attempt is herein made in three successive divisions of the work, to give such thoroughness to the anatomical descriptions of the several Bones, and of the Joints, and Muscles, as will enable the artist really to understand the Form, Mechanism, and Actions of the Human Body. These three subjects are introduced, respectively, by a general account of the Skeleton, the Articulations, and the Muscular System. In the particular description of the Bones, every curve and surface, every eminence, ridge or groove, which may explain the use of a part, or may influence the surface form, is fully noticed. In reference to the Joints, the character of the articular surfaces, the mode of connexion between the bones, the kind and degree of movement permitted between them, and the means by which these are limited, are duly explained. In the description of the Muscles, not only the origin, insertion, and action, of each is stated, but the individual shapes of their fleshy and tendinous portions, and their effect on the surface, are carefully pointed out. There remain, nevertheless, many things concerning the Evolution of Organic Forms generally, the Qualities of these, the Vertebrate Form and its variations, the Statics and Kinetics of the Human Body, and its means and mode of Locomotion and Expression, which must be reserved for future con- sideration. In this trecitise, Structure and Form chiefly receive attention. As a parting word of advice, it must be emphaticall}^ recommended that, when- ever it is possible, reference should l>e made continually to the life, for the purpose of learning how to translate the facts of the dead structure into the appearances of the living form.