7 INTRODUCTION. forms of youth and early manhood, draped, partly draped, and even nude, in public processions, in dramatic performances, in military exercises with spear and sword, and in the civil contests of boxers, quoit throwers and charioteers. At a later period, when, if it be true, as is asserted, that Erasistratus and Herophilus really performed dissections of the human body, the Greek artists would certaiuly avail themselves of the researches of tliose early devotees of anatomical science, perhaps the earliest prosectors. It is said that, after their time, prohibitive laws were passed in reference to dissection ; if so, this would establish the fact that it had been pursued, unless such edicts related merely to useless mutilations or to ordinary autopsies. Finally, it requires no straining of the imagination to conceive that, by the Greeks at least, any anatomical knowledge thus gathered together would be tenaciously and traditionally preserved, and would be taught orally to successive generations of pupils, in their academies, without, or with, graphic or plastic illustrations. The emigrant Grreek artists who, attracted by the wealth and patronage of Rome, passed over from time to time, and established, by degrees, the Graeco-Roman schools of sculpture and of painting,—would, undoubtedly, follow the precepts and methods, of their mother school of Athens. The Grrseco-Roman physicians and surgeons do not appear to have openly prac- tised, nor confess to having practised, human anatomy, even on the bodies of slaves, barbarians, or criminals. Galen himself, who in his day incorporated the professional wisdom of the past, as far as this was attainable by him, with that of his own time, based his descriptions of the internal organs of the human body, upon the facts of mere animal anatomy, employing for this pur- pose, not only domestic creatures, but apes. Even for the bones, he used the last-named animals. At the same time, he advised his pupils, to do as he him- self had done, to have recourse to Alexandria for human skeletons. Can we doubt that artists also would follow his advice, and would avail themselves of the knowledge possessed by their scientific brethren; for, at all times, there has been a freemasonry between them ? In Imperial Rome, the gladiatorial shows furnished opportunities for the study of the living figure, in some respects resembling, though not equalling, those offered by the Olympian Games and by the daily life of the Greeks; and these shows would, moreover, supply, as we know, touching subjects for the artist's mind and hand. During the period when all learning was remitted once more to Orientals, and fell into the hands of the teachers of the Arabian schools, the prosecution of practical human anatomy ceased; for it was altogether repugnant to the sentiments, precepts and customs, if not opposed to the positive enactments, of the early Mahommedans. Then came the vacant roll of the dark centuries. Ultimately, we reach the era of the revival of learniug and the re-instate- ment of the arts. It is well known that, as early as the beginning of the