THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM. 153 is turned downwards and outwards. They are longer from before backwards than the cup-shaped cavities of the atlas, so as to ensure great play with security of movement, in the nodding motions of the head ; behind each condyle, is a depression in the occipital bone, into which the hinder border of the corresponding articular process of the atlas is received, in the backward movement of the head. Close to the inner border of the condyles, there are rough surfaces, for the attachment of the check ligaments, which pass up from the odontoid process of the axis. To the outer side of each condyle, the occipital bone is extended, like the transverse process of a vertebra, to form the jugular eminence, the under rough surface of which, gives attachment to the rectus capitis lateralis muscle- In front of the foramen magnum, the occipital bone is prolonged into a narrow stalk-like process, which may be compared with the body of a vertebra, and ascends a little, as it passes forwards. This is the basilar 'process, b, which, in the adult cranium, joins the sphenoid bone in front, by complete bony union, and gives attachment, on each side of the median line, to the two anterior recti capitis muscles, as well as to the pharynx. Behind the foramen magnum, in the middle line, is the occipital crest or spine, which resembles the spinous process of a vertebra, and extends back- wards, as far as the occipital protuberance, at the middle of the superior curved line already mentioned. Between this line, I, and the foramen magnum, on each side, is another nearly parallel curved line, the inferior curved line. Besides these lines, which represent thickened parts of the occipital bone, there are two short ridges passing from the condyles to the jugular eminences, and two others, on each side, extending from the same parts to the front and back of the foramen magnum. All these ridges serve to strengthen the bone, where it has to bear weight and shock. Some of them, together with roughened surfaces between them, also give insertion to numerous muscles, which are symmetrical on the two sides. Thus, to the inferior curved line, and to a small portion of the bone in front of it, are attached the recti capitis postici, major and minor; above and to the outer side of these, between the curved lines, is fixed, on each side, the obliquus capitis superior ; between the two curved lines, also on each side, are attached next to the median line, the complexus, and, further outwards, a portion of the splenius capitis ; above that, to the superior curved line, the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle. The occipital protuberance affords attachment, in the middle line, to the slight ligamentum nuchse, and on each side, as well as on the inner third of the superior curved line, to the trapezius muscle ; the outer half or two-thirds of that line gives origin to the occipital portion of the corresponding occipito-frontalis muscle, the middle part of its tendon, or epicranial aponeu- rosis, being attached to the occipital protuberance and the superior curved line between the muscles.