335 THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. the latissimus dorsi, fig. 167; rhomboidal, flat but broader than the last muscle; oblique downwards and outwards, from the spine to the scapula. Upper four or five dorsal spines and supra-spinous ligament base of the scapula, from the root of the spinous process to the inferior angle. Many of its fasciculi are attached to a strong tendinous band, which is fixed to the scapula near its lower angle, and is elsewhere bound to the base of the bone by con- nective tissue. The rhomboid muscles draw the scapula upwards, backwards and inwards; the greater muscle, acting through its tendinous band on th e lower angle especially, depresses the acromion process, and thus rotates the whole bone on the chest. The rhom- boids co-operate, as will be presently explained, with the great serratus and the trapezius muscles. Serratus magnus, figs. 156, 157, 161, 166, Superficial, on the side of the thorax just below the axilla, but elsewhere deep-seated, beneath the scapula and its muscles, and also beneath the latissimus dorsi and the pectorales major and minor; thick, broad, irregularly quadrilateral, with a curved and boldly serrated anterior crescentic border, disposed in a series of pointed, fleshy digitations ; embrac- ing a large portion of the side of the thorax, its numerous bundles passing backwards beneath the scapula, and converging, somewhat, to reach the base of that bone. Outer surfaces and upper borders of the upper eight ribs, and intervening intercostal fascia whole length of the under surface of the base of the scapula. The digitations from the upper two ribs and the intervening fascia, fig. 157, form a narrow thick mass, which proceeds backwards and somewhat up- wards, to be fixed to a triangular impression on the deep surface of the superior angle of the scapula; those from the third and fourth ribs, form a broader and thinner portion, which passes directly backwards to the deep margin, or lip, of the base of the scapula, between its two angles; the digitations from the fifth to the eighth ribs, commence along oblique lines upon the ribs and their inter- vening fascia, vary in length and width, diminishing, in both respects, from above downwards, and ascend obliquely backwards in a fan-shaped form, to Fig. 156.—The Shoulder-girdle Group.