THE MUSCLES. 340 wraps round, and embraces, the lower border of the teres major, fig. 166, the two constituting the posterior border of the axilla ; the latissimus here twists on itself, so as to form a sort of groove or channel for the reception of the teres, in doing which, its posterior surface becomes anterior, fig. 159. More- over, its tendon of insertion passes in front of that of the teres major, and is so changed in its direction, that the edge connected with the lower fibres of the muscle, reaches higher up on the humerus, than that with which the upper fibres are continuous. When the arm is raised, the powerful latissimus dorsi will draw it downwards and backwards, and, at the same time, may rotate it inwards, thus assisting the teres major; but, in these actions, it moves the whole shoulder-girdle as well, which the teres cannot accomplish, and thus, it co-operates with the rhomboids, and counteracts the effect of the great serratus and the trapezius. Acting alone, the latissimus carries the upper limb behind the trunk, but if with the pectoralis major, it draws the humerus directly to the side- It is the great muscle employed in striking a blow downwards with a sabre, or in felling a tree with an axe,—the unusual length of its fasciculi, the longest next to those of the sartorius, giving rapidity to such blows. When both upper limbs are fixed, the latissimi of the two sides aid the pectoral muscles and the great serrati, in suspending the body, as in climbing, or in swinging it on crutches; they, then also, through their pelvic attachments, assist the abdominal muscles, in supporting and elevating the pelvic girdle. Their costal digitations become, when the arms are fixed, auxiliary inspiratory muscles. It is said that the upper portion of the latissimus helps to maintain the scapula in its place against the thorax ; but this part of the muscle is very thin, and probably such an exercise of its powers would be painful; the rhomboids and the great serratus really perform this necessary office. Trapezius, figs. 160, 161, 167, Superficial in every part; large, flat, triangular, the two muscles together, fig. 167, forming the trapezoid figure, and sometimes jointly named the cucullaris, from their likeness to the dependent cowl of a monk's hood; converging from the back, the neck, and the occiput, to the scapula and collar bone, the lower fasciculi passing upwards and outwards, the middle ones more or less horizontally, and the upper ones downwards, outwards and forwards. Spinous processes of all the dorsal verte- brae, and the seventh cervical vertebra, supra-spinous ligament, ligamentum nuchse fig. 190, In, occipital protuberance and inner third of superior curved line of occiput rough impression just above the root of the spinous process of the scapula, upper margin of that process, inner border of the acromion process, and outer third of the hinder border of the clavicle. At its lower end, the extensive aponeurosis of origin of the trapezius, fig. 160, to is thin, and triangular in shape ; in its middle part, it consists merely of short tendinous fibres ; from the second dorsal spine upwards to the cranium, it widens out, ^, and presents a semi-elliptical border, so that the aponeuroses of