SUEFACE-FORMS OF THE NECK, HEAD, AND FACE. 419 dependent on the existence within those parts, of cartilages of very precise shape, and, in the case of the eyelids, on the spheroidal forms of the globe of the eye itself. The lobule of the ear is a superadded part, quite characteristic of man; and whilst the auricle proper presents a certain relation, as to size and form, with the profile outline of the cranial and upper facial mass, the lobule repeats thequantity of the mass about the lower jaw (see figs. 190, 191). The curvature of the eyelids varies, according as they rest upon the larger spheroid corresponding with the sclerotic, or upon the segment of the smaller spheroid coinciding with the cornea. When the opened eyes are directed forwards, as in ordinary vision, the upper eyelid covers only a small portion of the upper part of the cornea, and its curve is not notably altered thereby; but if the sight be directed upwards, the cornea is more buried, and its curve modifies that of the upper lid; if the eyes are turned upwards and to one side, different parts of the two upper lids, that is, the outer part of one, and the inner part of the other, have their curvature thus increased. When the eyelids are closed, as in sleep or death, the greatest convexity of the upper eyelid is still over the corneal portion of the eyeball, and the direction of this is thereby revealed through the closed upper lid. Excepting in an extremely downward glance, the form of the lower eyelid is regulated entirely by that of the larger or sclerotic spheroid; for it only then covers any part of the cornea. The aperture between the two eyelids varies, both in size and direction, in different individuals, and in the different races of men. Upon its length and width, or the degree of openness of the lids, depends the character of the eyes, as regards apparent size, in different cases, quite as much as upon the dimensions of the eyeball itself. So, likewise, any inequality between the capacity of the bony orbit and its contents, may produce a like prominence of the eyes, or, on the other hand, may give rise to a peculiar sunken state of those organs. Differ- ences in the distance between the two eyes, causing them to be wide apart, or closely set, depend upon the width, or narrowness, of the bony structures between them. The normal direction of the elliptical opening between the eyelids, is nearly horizontal; but, except when the upper lid is unusually full or tumid, the external canthus or corner is a little more elevated than the inner one, which gives peculiar animation to the expression, as may be illus- trated by altering its position in a drawing or a model, so as to make it lower. In the Mongolian races, this elevation of the outer angle of the aperture, is so marked, as to constitute a national trait in the countenance. It depends on the particular point of attachment of the so-called external tarsal ligament being itself elevated, owing to the shortness of the external angular process of the frontal bone, and the greater upward projection of the ascending process of the malar bone, in those races. The singular character of the Chinese eye is further dependent on the fact, that the eyeball is not raised to the same extent as the aperture through which it is seen, so that the lower part of the EE 2