300 THE MUSCLES. Fectinetis, figs. 139, 141, Superficial, except below, where it is crossed by the sartorius; flat and quadrangular; directed downwards, backwards, and outwards, but slightly twisted, so that its anterior and posterior surfaces 'are turned outwards and inwards. Pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line, or pecten, and the smooth triangular surface of bone below that line back of the lesser trochanter, and upper part of the line leading thence to the linea aspera. It co-operates with the short and long adductors, especially in rotating the femur outwards. , Psoas magnus, figs. 139, 142, Deep seated at its origin and insertion, superficial between Poupart's ligament and the sartorius, but here covered by vessels, glands and fat, besides the strong fascia ; long and fusiform; descends through the loins {^6ai, the loins) and the pelvis, below Poupart's ligament, fig. 139, j9, jp, over the front of the hip joint, accompanied by the iliacus muscle, and passing backwards as well as outwards. Bodies of the twelfth dorsal, and five lumbar vertebrae, edges of the intervertebral substances, and front of the transverse processes lesser trochanter of the femur, by a thick tendon, which also receives most of the fasciculi of the iliacus. This muscle is a flexor and external rotator of the thigh upon the pelvis. Acting from below, it bends the lumbar portion of the spine forwards, and flexes the pelvis; the muscle of one side inclines the spine somewhat sideways, and assists in the lateral balance of the body; the two muscles prevent the trunk from falling backwards, and are also engaged in raising it from the recumbent posture. Iliacus, figs. 139, 142, Deep seated, above, within the pelvis, and below, near its insertion, but superficial for a small space below Poupart's ligament, between the sartorius and the rectus; flat, triangular, radiating; its fasciculi converge downwards, forwards and inwards, beneath Poupart's ligament, and then pass over the brim of the pelvis and front of the hip joint, backwards and downwards. Iliac fossa, ilio-lumbar ligament, upper part of the sacrum, and capsule of the hip joint outer border of the tendon of the psoas magnus, and a triangular surface between the lesser trochanter and the linea aspera. Like the psoas magnus, with which it is inserted, it is a flexor and external rotator of the thigh. Acting from below, it resists the falling backwards of the pelvis in the standing posture, and supports the hip joint in front; it also, with the psoas, rotates the pelvis inwards and forwards upon the head of the femur. Psoas parvus. Deep seated throughout ; long, slender, fusiform ; descends along the brim of the pelvis. Bodies of twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and intervening intervertebral disc ilio-pectineal line, by a long thin tendon blended with the iliac fascia, which it serves to tighten. Constant in Mammalia, it is usually wanting in Man. Acting from below, it may feebly assist the psoas magnus.