52 THE BONES. of the bone, there is a small triangular subcutaneous surface ; at its lower end, the outer surface of the fibula appears to turn gradually backwards, and becomes smooth and somewhat hollowed, so as to guide the tendons of the two peronei muscles just mentioned to the back of the lower part of the bone, which ends in the strongly projecting, but somewhat flattened and pointed process, named the external malleolus or outer ankle-hone, figs. 13, 14, 15. This process, shaped like an inverted pyramid, descends on the outer side of the astragalus, thus completing the ankle joint. Its apex, situated further back, or nearer to the heel, than the internal malleolus, reaches about half an inch nearer to the ground than that process; its broad posterior border is nearly vertical, and is sliglitly grooved downwards and outwards, for the tendons of the long and short peronei muscles, for which it forms a long fulcrum ; its anterior border, roughened for the attachment of the annular and other ligaments, is pro- minently angular. To its apex, is fixed the middle bundle of the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint; and deeply seated behind it, is a strongly marked indentation, for the attachment of the outer end of the posterior transverse ligament of that joint. The inner surface of the external malleolus presents a triangular articular facet, with its base upwards •, it is slightly convex from above downwards, directed a little forwards and downwards, and is adapted to the tri- angular and slightly concave outer articular facet of the astragalus, and, above that bone, to a narrow articular portion of the tibia. Immediately above this, is a rough and somewhat convex surface, which fits into the vertical depression on the adjacent part of the tibia, to which it is firmly fixed by ligament. The outer convex surface of the external malleolus is subcutaneous. Continued upwards from it, is a narrow triangular, likewise subcutaneous, surface, which ends in a point about three inches above the apex of the malleolus ; this surface is bounded by two convergent lines, meeting above at the anterior border of the bone; throughout the rest of the shaft, this border separates the attachments of the long and short peronei muscles, from that of the peroneus tertius below, and that of the common extensor of the toes above, these two groups of muscles, with their tendons, bounding the subcutaneous surface of the bone in question, behind and in front. Lastly, the upper end of the fibula, enlarging slightly, so as to form the head, terminates posteriorly in a short pointed process, sometimes named the styloid process of the fibula, to which, but especially to the rough surface of the head of the bone, the external lateral ligaments of the knee are fixed. Into the head, the tvpo parts of the tendon of the biceps muscle of the thigh, or outer hamstring muscle, are also inserted ; otherwise this part of the fibula is subcutaneous, having, however, the fascia of the thigh attached to it. Immediately below the head, is the small subcutaneous triangular surface already mentioned. On the upper and inner aspect of the enlarged head of the fibula, is the oblique, oval, articular surface, which, directed upwards, in-