THE BONES OF THE FOOT. 43 deep depression, which receives the anterior border of the lower end of the tiljia, when the foot is conapletel}* flexed upon the leg; it gives attachment to ligament. Anteriorly, the neck terminates in a smooth, tj-ansversely oblong, convex, articular surface called the liead ; the fore-part of this surface, fig. 12, a, directed downwards and inwards, is received into the deep articular concavity on the posterior surface of the scaphoid, s ; but it also becomes continuous, on the under aspect of the bone, with the anterior, inferior, articular facet, which, as already stated, rests on the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. Only a small portion of the under surface of the head of the astragalus, is visible in the sole, between the os calcis and the scaphoid, where it is supported by the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament which passes from one bone to the other. The head of the astragalus reaches a little further forwards on the inner border of the tarsus, than the os calcis does on the outer border ; but the two bones take part in the formation of a joint across the foot, between the os calcis and tlie cuboid bone on the outer side, and between the astragalus and the scaphoid bone on the inner side, the line of the articulation being nearly straight in the former situation, and convex anteriorly in the latter. This is the median or transverse tarsal articulation. The astragalus is distinguished from the other bones of the foot, by having no tendon or muscle attached to it. The Arches of the Foot.—Eegarded generally, the bones of the foot, as already indicated, form an antero-posterior ox longitudinal arch, extending from the os calcis behind, to the anterior ends of the metatarsal bones in front. It is elliptical in form, having its summit at the astragalus, and, therefore, its hinder part shorter, and descending more abruptly to the ground, and its fore- part longer, and sloping more gently ; its hinder hearing surface, corresponding with the OS calcis, is narrow; whilst its anterior or metatarsal surface of support, is much wider ; its inner border thick, and somewhat concave, is more elevated from the ground, than its outer border, which is thinner, straighter, and nearly horizontal. The highest part of this arch, in front of the leg, is named the instep, and the under excavated part, the plantar arch. Besides this longitudinal arch, the foot is said to present a transverse arch, which, however, is only clearly recognisable, across the anterior part of the tarsus, and hinder part of the metatarsus, the arched form disappearing behind and in front of those parts. As the inner end of this transverse arch is elevated from the ground, whilst the outer end touches the base of support, and as its form is likewise influenced by the existence of the longitudinal arch, the hollow of the foot, viewed from its inner side, resembles a half dome, or the top of a rounded niche, rather than an arch. LEEDS-acWEST-Rini