SUEFACE FORMS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 315 external saphenous vein, -which turns to the back of the leg, and passes up, over the middle of the gastrocnemius, to reach and enter the popliteal space, into which it disappears. On the front of the internal malleolus, is the commencing trunk of the internal saphenous vein, which passes up the leg behind the tibial furrow, receiving branches as it ascends, and being more or less pouched or knotted in its forms ; it reaches the back of the inner side of the knee, resting on the soft bed formed by the fat, just behind the inner hamstring, where it enters the region of the thigh. The Thigh.—The muscles of the thigh have even a more general influence on the surface-forms than those of the leg, for, with the exception of small portions of the condyles, and of the greater trochanter, the whole femur is enclasped by large muscular masses. Of these, the crureus and the subcrureus, the rotators and the gluteus minimus, are completely hidden by other muscles; the gluteus medius is more than half concealed ; the adductors are not quite so much covered; the extensor and the flexor groups are but slightly so at their upper ends; whilst, lastly, the sartorius, gracilis, gluteus maximus and tensor vaginse femoris, are entirely superficial. The most noticeable intermuscular marking on the surface of the thigh, is the one which falls opposite the external intermuscular septum between the vastus externus and the biceps. The internal intermuscular septum produces a marking both above and below the sartorius, but it is interrupted, in the lower part of the thigh, by the sartorius muscle and its sheath. The line of separation between the semi-tendinosus and the biceps, seen down the back of the thigh, is the only remaining distinct intermuscular marking. Elsewhere, the borders of the muscles are indicated by prominences, rather than by linear depressions. The general form of the extensor group of muscles follows the direction of the femur, which lies in its midst; the great length, breadth, and flatness of the outer surface of the ihigh correspond with the large undivided mass of the vastus externus, and the broad and tense overlying portion of the fascia lata. The beautiful fusiform rectus, emerges from the triangular depression formed between the sartorius and the tensor vaginee femoris, which descend from a common point, the neighbourhood of the anterior superior spine of the ilium; it passes obliquely downwards, and determines the elegant convex outline of the front of the thigh, supported, of course, by the slightly convex femur itself; the borders of the rectus are more or less plainly discernible, according as it is in action or at rest. The short, but bold and richly prominent vastus internus, just above the level of the knee, forms a striking contrast with the long, but nearly flat plane of the external vastus, which fades away down to the depression or inbending, opposite the outer side of the joint. The mode of ending of the fleshy fasciculi of the extensor muscles upon their common tendon of insertion, and the form of that tendon ha\'e