115 THE SHOULDER-GIEDLE. which is triangular, and broader towards the posterior border of the bone; the smaller one, the supraspinous fossa, gives origin to, and lodges, the supra-spinatus muscle; the larger one, the infra-spinous fossa, gives ori- gin, over the greater portion of its more or less convex surface, to the infra- spinatus muscle, this muscle occupying a deep oblique groove, which runs parallel with the axillary border of the bone. At the lower part of the infra- spinous fossa, near the inferior angle of the bone, is a smooth, triangular surface, over which the tipper border of the latissimus dorsi muscle passes, sometimes a few fibres being here attached. At the outer part of the infra-spinous fossa, along the lower third of the axillary border, is a flat rhomboidal surface, continuous, above, with the ridge already described as existing along the axillary border, which gives origin to the teres major muscle ; to a naiTOw sLirface, external to the upper two- thirds of the ridge, the teres minor muscle is attached; immediately below the neck, from a tubercle, surrounded by an elongated rough depression, arises the long head of the triceps muscle; the fascia, which separates these muscles, is attached to the ridge itself. The upper and under surfaces of the spinous process form part of the supra- and infra-spinous fossae. The border?^, or lips, of its crest, are both more or less indented or waved ; the upper lip becomes the inner concave border of the acromion process, and into it and the adjacent sm-face, along its whole leng-th, the greater part of the trapezius muscle is inserted, a tendinous slip connected with the lowermost fibres of the muscle, gliding over the smooth triangular surface situated at the commencement of the spinous process, to reach its upper margin, a small bm'sa intervening ; this muscle also assists powerfully in suspending the scapula and the clavicle. The lower lip of the crest of the spinous process becomes the outer convex border of the acromion process, from both of which, as well as from the adjacent surfaces of the pro- cesses, the greater part of the deltoid muscle arises. The two Hps of the crest diverge from each other, about an inch or more from the smooth triangadar surface at its commencement, so as to present two prominences, opposite the common point of attachment of the margins of the trapezius and deltoid muscles. The intermediate crest of the spinous process, between the lips, is partly covered, as just stated, by the trapezius and deltoid muscles, but between these, it is subcutaneous; this subcutaneous part is narrowest in the middle of the spine, but it becomes widened at its outer end, and continuous with the oblong, flattened, or slightly convex upper surface of the acromion process. This process, figs. 46, 47, 48 {ciKpos, the highest; w/^oy, the top of the shoulder), the highest and outermost bony point of the shoulder bone, has its upper surface directed upwards and backwards, and its under surface, concave and smooth, tm-ned downwards and forwards, towards the upper end of the I 2