THE BONES OF THE THORAX. 101 is about an inch long, and ends behind in the prominent tubercle, which is partly roughened for the attachment of ligaments, but also presents a small oval surface, turned downwards, backwards, and inwards, for articulation with the facet on the tip of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae, with which the rib is connected. A short distance beyond the tubercle, the rib, instead of continuing outwards, backwards, and somewhat downwards, describing a short portion of a rather small circle, now bends for- wards, and proceeds downwards, outwards, forwards, and then inwards, describ- ing a much longer and more gentle curve, until it ends, in front of the thorax, at its corresponding cartilage. The place where the rib thus changes its direction, is named the angle, at which a slight ridge passes obliquely downwards and outwards across the bone, for the attachment of the corresponding tendon of the sacro-lumbalis muscle, and of the strong fascia which covers it. The angles, fig. 26, are situated further and further outwards, in descending from the second to the tenth or eleventh rib. The longer, curved part of the rib beyond the tubercle, is named the body or shaft of the rib. The portion between the tubercle and the angle, is somewhat rounded, and uneven behind, for the attachment of the slips of the longissimus dorsi muscle; the succeeding portion of the body is thinner, being flattened both on its outer convex and inner concave surfaces; it gradually becomes a little broader, and more flattened, towards its anterior part, where it expands slightly; at its end, it is excavated and fitted directly, without an intervening joint, to its proper costal cartilage. Towards the middle and fore part, the inner surface of the rib turned towards the thoracic cavity, is directed a little downwards, and the outer surface, which is covered by muscles, a little upwards. The upper border is rounded, and has attached to it both the external and internal intercostal muscles; the lower edge is sharp, and, on its inner aspect, presents a deep groove for blood-vessels and a nerve. The groove commences near the tubercle, where it is bounded above by a strong ridge; it gradually disappears towards the fore part of the rib; the two intercostal muscles are fixed to the outer and inner margins of this groove. When a rib is detached and examined apart, the abrupt curvature of its shorter, posterior portion, and the gentle curve of its longer, anterior part, are more readily observed. Though the whole bone is bent, like a bow, its curvatiu-e is not uniform. Moreover, the curve of the rib does not all lie in the same plane ; for, if the bone be placed, on its lower edge, on a horizontal surface, it will not rest flat, its hinder part within the angle, being tilted upwards, a condition owing, partly, to a slight twist, and, partly, to a slight upward bend near the angle of the rib. The necks of the three upper ribs, however, are directed slightly downwards and inwards; the tilting upwards of the necks of the succeeding ribs, increases down to the seventh or eighth, and then diminishes.