377 THE MUSCLES OF THE HAND. fascia, and attached externally to the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge on the trapezium, and internally to the pisiform bone and to the hook-like process of the unciform bone. It converts the transverse arch of the carpus into a canal for the passage of the long flexor tendons of the fingers, figs. 173, 174, It blends with the ligaments of the carpus, and contributes greatly to the strength of the wrist, and to the maintenance of its arch. The tendon of the palmaris longus passes over it, fig. 181, that of the flexor carpi ulnaris is partially inserted into it, that of the flexor carpi radialis passes through it; most of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger are connected with it. Just above the hand, across the front of the lower part of the fore-arm, the fascia is strengthened by transverse fibres, which form a sort of superficial anterior annular ligament, figs. 181, 182, The posterior annular liga- ment, figs. 183, 184, 185,"', also derived from the proper fascia, and continuous, above, with the fascia of the fore-arm and, below, with the dorsal fascia of the hand, is attached, externally to the outer border of the radius, and internally to the pisiform and cuneiform bones; between these points, it is fixed by the retinacula to the ridges on the back of the radius and ulna, to form, with the grooves on those bones, p. 133, the several com- partments for the passage of the extensor tendons. By this means, the tendons are bound down in their places against the bones, when the hand is extended, whilst synovial lining membranes facilitate the free movement of the tendons in their respective channels. This ligament also strengthens the wrist behind, and helps especially to connect the hand with the radius, during pronation and supination. The extensor tendons on the back of the hand, figs. 175 to 177, 183 to The tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, on the inner border of the hand, emerging from the innermost compartment of the posterior annular ligament, quickly reaches the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The slender Fig. 183.—Muscles and Tendons on the back of the Hand, with the Posterior Annular Ligament, a'. 185.