19 THE SKELETON. In the upper limb, the first long single bone is named the humerus or arm-hone, H. It is connected, at its upper end, by a very moveable joint, with the scapula, and, at its lower end, with the two succeeding long bones of the forearm. One of these latter, is named the ulna, or elbow bone {ulna, the elbow), U, and the other the radius or spoke-bone (radius, a ray or spoke), R. The ulna is placed at the back and inner border of the forearm, as the limb hangs by the side with the palm forwards ; whilst the radius is situated along the outer border of the forearm. Both bones are connected, very moveably, with the humerus, above; but the ulna alone, as its name implies, forms the bony prominence of the elbow. Below, they are both articulated with the hand, at the wrist, the radius more particularly and com- pletely, the ulna being separated from the wrist-bones by a small fibro- cartilage. Lastly, the two bones are articulated, at both their upper and lower ends, by peculiar joints, so arranged, that the radius can roll on its long axis, upon the ulna. The ivrist or carpus {Kap-nos, the wrist), Cs, consists of eight small short bones, named the carpal hones, which are arranged in two rows. The first or upper row contains, proceeding from the inner or ulnar border, the cuneiform bone {cuneus, a wedge; forma, shape), figs. 2 and 3, c, on which rests the pisiform or pea-shaped bone (pisum, a pea; forma, shape), p, which, by some, is regarded, not as a proper carpal element, but rather as an example of a bone developed in a tendon, like the sesamoid bones; next, the semilunar bone (semi, half; luna, moon), sr; and then, the scaphoid, navicular, or boat-shaped hone iaKa^r], navicxda, a boat or wherry), s. The second or loiver row includes, in the same order, the unciform or hook-shaped bone (uncus, a hook ; forma, shape), u; the OS magnum or great bone (os, bone ; magnus, great), m ; the trapezoid bone, (rpdirs^a, a table), d; and lastly, the trapezium (rpaTrs^cop, a little table), t. The carpal bones of each row are so connected, as to permit of but very slight movements on each other; but between the two rows, there is somewhat more movement. The upper row, as already stated, is articulated above, directly, with the lower end of the radius, but only indirectly, by means of an inter- vening fibro-cartilage, with the ulna. The lower row is articulated firmly with four long bones, and more loosely with a fifth similar bone ; these succeed to the carpus, and constitute the metacarpus (fierd, beyond; Kapiros, the wrist), fig. 1, Mc5. Of the five metacarpal bones, which, for the purposes of description, are numbered from the radial to the ulnar border of the hand, the fifth and fourth rest, above, on the unciform bone, and, below, support the little and ring fingers ; the third is connected with the os magnum, and supports the middle finger ; the second is attached to the tra- pezoid bone, and carries the fore- or index-finger. These four metacarpal bones are arranged side by side, parallel with each other; but the first meta- carpal bone stands out from the rest, is articulated, more loosely, with the c 2