THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 409 palpebral portion of the orbicular muscle, it raises the upper lid, and draws it back into the orbit, like the vizor of a helmet. The lower eyelid has no corresponding muscle ; it moves through a much shorter distance, in closing the eye, and reverts to the open condition, by the elasticity of its connect- ing structures. This muscle is active in the expression of surprise and fright. Tensor tarsi, fig. 196, Deep, behind the ten do palpebrarum and the lacrymal sac; diminutive, flat, divided externally into two slips ; transverse. Hinder border of the lacrymal groove free borders of the two tarsal carti- lages, blending with the palpebral portion of the orbicular muscle, of which it seems like a deep portion. It draws the eyelids inwards, and, perhaps, by opening the lacrymal canals and sac, facilitates the passage of the tears down them ; it has been called the muscle of the lacrymal sac. Orbicularis 'palpebrarum, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial; a thin, broad, elliptical rather than circular, sheet of muscular fasciculi; disposed, in curved lines, in two portions, one thin and pale, the palpebral or ciliary portion, belonging to and covering the eyelids, the other thicker, and darker, named the orbital portion, orbicularis lotus, which surrounds, rests upon, and overlaps the margins of the orbit. Anterior surface, and upper and lower borders of the tendo palpebrarum, fig. 196, to, and through it, from the anterior margin of the lacrymal groove, internal angular process of the frontal bone, and nasal process of the superior maxillary bone the palpebral fasciculi reach the band of fascia named the external lateral ligament, and thus become slightly attached to the adjacent part of the malar bone, the orbital fasciculi, unattached to bone, except at the origin of the muscle, blend, at the outer border of the muscle, on the forehead, temple and cheek, with the fibres of the occipito-frontalis, corrugator supercilii, zygomatici, and other muscles, sometimes also with the pyramidalis nasi. The palpebral portion of this muscle may simply narrow the aperture of the eyelids, as during reflection, or in the expression of joy, or, still more decidedly, in shame or grief; or it may close the eyelids, as in sleep. The fasciculi on the upper lid become much lowered and straightened, those on the lower lid are but slightly elevated. Both sets are shortened horizontally inwards, towards the tendo palpebrarum and the side of the nose; but the existence of firm cartilages in the lids, resists their movement inwards, and the effect of the contrac- tion is, therefore, to draw the lids together. This closure takes place from the outer to the inner corner of the eyelids, the aperture, accordingly, becoming shorter, or longer, at the outer angle, as the eyelids are shut or opened ; whereas, the inner angle, fixed more securely by the tendo palpebrarum, sometimes inaptly named the tendo oculi, t o, shifts very slightly from its place ; indeed, the position of the two lacrymal fossae, on either side of the nose, is so little changed in the various actions of the eyes and eyelids, that