THE MUSCLES. 342 weight upon it; the middle, or cervical and upper dorsal part, alone, or aided by the rhomboid, will draw the scapula directly inwards, towards the ver- tebral column; the lower part of the trapezius, acting alone, will draw the shoulder downwards and inwards, but, co-operating with the subclavius and pectoralis minor, will simply depress it. When, however, the scapula is so held, that it cannot move, as a whole, in any and every direction, as, for example, directly backwards or upwards, but is maintained more or less in situ by the combined action of the rhomboid and the great serratus, then, the entire trapezius has a peculiar combined action, essential to the character- istically free elevation of the upper limb, see fig. 167 ; thus, the upper fasciculi of the muscle raise the outer end of the clavicle and the scapula and lift them inwards ; the middle fasciculi also draw the scapular spinous process inwards and upwards; whilst the lower fasciculi, gliding over the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spinous process, so as likewise to act upon its upper margin, draw this part of the bone downwards and inwards. The result is, fig. 167, that the superior angle of the base of the scapula is depressed, and moved slightly inwards; the inferior angle is carried outwards and forwards into the axilla, and is slightly raised; the posterior border becomes inclined outwards, instead of being vertical; the axillary border is rendered prominent; and, lastly, the outer angle, which supports the glenoid cavity, is pointed upwards, outwards and forwards. The whole bone is, in fact, rotated on a continually shifting axis, which passes perpendicularly to the surface of the bone, through the upper part of the infra-spinous fossa ; the spinous and the acromion processes change from a horizontal to an oblique direction, the surface of the latter being now especially turned upwards and backwards. It is this movement, which enables the entire upper limb to be raised beyond the horizontal line. The precise position of the scapula, during this rotatory movement, is made to vary, by the mutual action of the two rhomboids and the great serratus. When the shoulder-girdle is quite fixed, the upper part of the trapezius will incline the head to its own side, and rotate it, so as to turn the face to the oppo- site side ; both trapezii will, under the same conditions, draw the head back- wards, and raise the face. The Pectoral Group.—Figs. 161, 162, 166. This includes the subclavius muscle, and the lesser and greater pectoral muscles. They pass from the front of the thorax to the clavicle, the scapula, and the humerus, re- spectively, the two former being shoulder-girdle muscles, the last, a muscle of the upper limb. Subclavius, figs. 161, 162, Deep; conical, tapering at its inner tendinous end, wider and fleshy at its outer end; oblique, outwards and upwards, under the collar bone, bound down by a strong fascia. Junction of