406 THE MUSCLES. pletely covered. Viewed from the front, the brilliantly clear, polished and moist cornea is seen, surrounded by the sclerotic; through the cornea, as through a watch-glass, is shown the many-coloured iris, a musculo-membranous dia- phragm, perforated, a little to the inner side of its centre, by a round opening forming the black spot, named the pupil, through which, light is admitted into the interior of the eyeball, and the size of which is enlarged in a feeble, and diminished in a strong light. The globe of the eye varies somewhat in size in different individuals, and even on the two sides of the face in the same person. It is more or less prominent in the face, iirst, according to its relative size, as compared with the orbit, and, secondly, according to the quantity of fatty tissue on which it rests and moves, and to the amount of space occupied by the lacrymal gland in the upper and outer part of that socket. Its anterior fourth is free, and is connected with the under surface of the eyelids, by a mucous membrane. FiU. 194.—Muscles of the Right Eyeball, within the orbit, seen from the front. Fig. 195.—The same, seen from the outer side. named the conjunctiva, but so loosely, that the lids can move easily over the eyeball, and it can move easily behind them, each being provided with proper muscles for those purposes. Recti oculi, 194, 195, superior,'^'^, inferior,externus,'^% and internus,^*. Deep; small, elongated, flat; nearly horizontally forwards, and slightly outwards, in the axis of the orbit, and, as their names indicate, above, below, on the outer side of, and on the inner side of the eyeball. Bottom of the orbit, around the point of entrance of the optic nerve, the external rectus by two heads globe of the eye just behind the margin of the transparent cornea, by short, thin, expanded tendons. These muscles rotate the eyeball, so as to turn its front part upwards, downwards, outwards and inwards, respectively; hence they have been named, the attoUens, the depressor, the abductor, and the adductor, muscles of the eyeball. Any two adja- cent recti, acting together, turn the globe of the eye in an intermediate oblique direction ; and it is said, that, if all co-operate, the eyeball may be