THE BONES. 12G namely the supinator radii longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior, and, by its posterior lip, to a small part of the triceps muscle. To the epi-condyle itself, is fixed the external lateral ligament of the elbow ; it likewise gives origin to some of the muscles at the back of the fore-arm, namely, the ex- tensor carpi radialis brevior, the extensor communis digitorum, and the ex- tensor minimi digiti ; lastly, the small anconeus muscle arises from its hinder surface. Surface-forms dependent on the Humerus. The humerus is almost entirely covered by the muscles which invest it on all sides. It is, indeed, more completely concealed than the femur, for at the upper end of the bone, even its outer, larger, and more conspicuous tuberosity, which forms the most prominent bony point of the shoulder, extending much beyond the acromion process, is completely covered by the deltoid muscle. Nevertheless, it influences, most materially, the surface-forms of that muscle, for, as the glenoid cavity looks, not straight outwards, but outwards and forwards, so that its axis is directed towards the fore part of the acromion, the head of the humerus projects more in front of than behind that process ; hence, it is much more prominent beneath the anterior than beneath the posterior portion of the deltoid muscle, which.accordingly is thrust out and is more convex in front, but is relatively flattened behind. The lesser tuberosity, directed forwards, is so covered, as to be recognisable only by the touch. The general straightness of the shaft of the humerus, as contrasted with the antero-posterior arching of the femur, produces a significant difference in the general form of the arm, as compared with that of the thigh, the arm, however variously modified in its surface-forms by the muscles, being essentially a straight segment of the upper limb, appearing to have a direct, solid axis, and not a curved axis, as is the case with the thigh. The awkward- ness of an arm, bent like the thigh, would be equalled only by its inelegance. The observation of the two limbs, will satisfy the spectator, not only of the appropriateness of the structure of each limb, on mechanical grounds,—the one being destined for precision of action in all directions, the other for moving under great weight chiefly in two directions,—but also of the beauty of each form, from an aesthetic point of view. At the lower end of the humerus, its widened anterior and posterior surfaces are both concealed by muscles ; but they may be said to determine the general flatness of that part of the limb. On the outer side, a very small portion only of the epi-condyle is, strictly speaking, svibcutaneous ; this corresponds sometimes with a slight depression, sometimes with a slight prominence, amongst the attachments of the adjacent muscles, according as these are at rest, or in action. The upper sharper portion of the more prominent and more elevated epi-trocblea, is the only other subcutaneous part of the humerus; it is always