THE BONES. 138 by means of suitable smooth facets, that for the semi-lunar being plane, and that for the unciform concavo-convex, that is, concave towards the middle of the wrist, and convex towards its ulnar border. The upper surface of the cuneiform is also chiefly articular, being turned towards the lower end of the ulna, but separated from that bone by the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. Its inner border is roughened, and has a small prominent tubercle on it, for the attachment of part of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. I<"s roughened dorsal surface also has ligaments connected with it; lastly, its palmar surface, otherwise rough for ligaments, is marked on its inner half by an oval, smooth facet, slightly convex from above downwards, for articulation with the little pisiform bone. The cuneiform bone has no muscle or tendon directly attached to it; but through the intei'vention of the pisiform bone, it is connected -with the flexor carpi ulnaris. It is the representative of at least a part of the os calcis in the tarsus. The 'piriform bone, fig. 58, rather egg-shaped than pea-shaped, has a slightly concave facet behind, oblong from above downwards, which is articulated with the cuneiform bone. The rest of its surface is roughened j and connected firmly with many structures; internally, with a part of the lateral ligament of the wrist, and with the posterior annular ligament; in front, with the anterior annular ligament; and above, with the strong tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Below, it affords origin to the abductor muscle of the little finger. The scaphoid bone, figs. 58, 59, the largest of the first row, and correspond- ing with the scaphoid in the tarsus, is placed on the radial side of the semi-lunar bone, and reaches downwards and forwards, much below its level. It is a long, irregularly-shaped bone, having a convex upper articular surface, which fits into the outer triangular portion of the concave inferior articular surface of the radius; an oblong, concave, and sojnewhat boat-like inner articular surface, marked off into an upper flattened part, for articulation with the outer side of the semi-lunar bone, and a lower, larger concave portion, for the reception of the outer side of the tead of the os magnum ; and, lastly, a lower articular surface, also convex, and divided into an inner, quadrilateral, narrow part, for articulation with the trapezoid bone, and an outer, triangular, broader portion, for adaptation to the trapezium. The rest of the bone is non-articular and roughened ; it is narrow and convex behind; in front, it is, at first, concave just beneath the wrist-joint, but lower down presents a tuberosity, which affords attachment to the anterior annular ligament, and from which the abductor muscle of the thumb arises. Of these three bones, forming, with the pisiform, the Jirst roiu of the carpus, the cuneiform bone articulates below, only with the unciform of the second row, just as the os calcis articulates only with the cuboid in the tarsus ; the semi-lunar bone articulates slightly with the unciform, but chiefly with