THE BONES OF THE LEG. 51 central part, and more or less oval, having its long diameter, like the tuberosity on which it rests, from before backwards. Between the two facets, but nearer to the hinder margin of the head of the bone, projects a bifid process, named the spine of the tibia, immediately in front of, and behind which, are found the two depressions already mentioned, as seen on the anterior and posterior borders of the head of the bone. This spine fits into the intercondyloid fossa or pit, found on the back of the lower end of the femur ; its inner edge rises higher, and more abruptly, from the inner articular facet of the tibia; whilst its outer edge descends more gently towards the outer articular facet; to it, but especially to the rough depressions in front of and behind it, are fixed the lower ends of the two crucial ligaments of the knee-joint, and also the ends of the two semi-lunar cartilages, which rest upon the two articular facets of the tibia, and serve to deepen the shallow surfaces for the reception of the femoral condyles. The Fibula.—The outer and more slender leg-bone, the fibula, figs. 13 to 16, which is proportionally the thinnest of all the long bones, is about of the same length as the tibia ; but, as its upper end does not reach so high as the tibia, its lower end projects below that bone. It is, for the most part, situated on a plane further back in the leg, especially so towards its upper end, although at its lower end, it lies more nearly in the same plane as the tibia ; but, as the middle part of its shaft is arched backwards as well as inwards, whilst that of the tibia is a little curved in the forward direction, the backward position of the fibula is more evident in the middle of the leg. Hence also, whilst the internal malleolus appears to point slightly backwards, the external malleolus is directed a little forwards. The shaft of the fibula is irregularly three-sided, but towards its upper end its edges are rounded off, and the bone becomes constricted to form the 7ieck, the narrowest part of the fibula. Below this point, the bone presents several narrow longitudinal, or oblique, surfaces, intercepted by ridges, chiefly in consequence of the number of muscles which arise from it. The inner surface, figs. 14, 15, of the fibula, turned a little forwards towards the tibia, is marked by a sharp ridge, the interosseous ridge, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament which connects the two bones ; behind this ridg-e, is an elongated surface for the partial origin of the tibialis posticus muscle ; in front of it, commencing from above, are the surfaces of origin of the common extensor of the toes, the proper extensor of the great toe, and the peroneus tertius muscle. The posterior surface, or back of the fibula, fig. 14, gives origin above, to a part of the soleus muscle, and below, to the long flexor of the great toe. Nearly the whole of its outer surface, figs. 13, 15, is grooved and clothed by the long and the short peronei muscles, which arise from, and embrace, it; at its upper end, forming apportion of the outer side of the head E 2