THE BONES OF THE HAND. 145 foot, including even that of the great toe. The first interosseous space in the hand, is, also, very wide, triangular, and quite open below, instead of forming a narrow elliptical space, as between the other metacarpal and between all the metatarsal bones. The remaining four metacarpal bones, however, are not exactly parallel with each other, but, owing to the slight convexity of the lower border of the carpus, they radiate out, like the sticks of a fan, so as to diverge at their distal ends. This is especially the case, with the second in an outward, and with the fifth in an inward direction ; hence the second and fourth interosseous spaces are comparatively wider below, than the third. The heads of the metacarpal bones of the fingers, describe together a slightly curved line ; and, owing to the arched form of the carpus, with which they are connected, they also form a laterally arched framework. This is the transverse arch of the palm ; it is increased, especially at the anterior part of the metacarpus, to which the fingers are attached, by the forward movements possible at the bases of the bones. The arched form of the anterior part of the metacarpus, enables the points of the fingers to be brought more easily together. The Phalanges.—The phalanges of the fingers and the thumb, figs. 58, 59, 60, in comparison with those in the foot, if we set aside the bones of the thumb and the great toe, are so large, that it is easier to distinguish the proper phalangeal characters in them ; and they are so long, that they are much better adapted for prehensile purposes. Miniature long bones, having slender shafts tapering downwards, and two enlarged extremities, they are, in all cases, wider from side to side, and thinner from before backwards. The first or proximal phalanges are the longest and largest, and the last or terminal phalanges, the shortest and smallest. The shafts of all the digital phalanges are convex on the dorsal surface, both longitudinally and transversely ; but, on the palmar surface, they are slightly concave from above downwards, though flattened transversely. Their dorsal surfaces, fig. 59, moreover, are smooth for adaptation to the ex- tensor tendons, by which they are covered, besides the skin; their palmar surfaces, fig. 58, have the flexor tendons lying against their median flattened part, but at each side of the first and second phalanges, a slightly elevated ridge exists, for the attachment of the sheaths which bind down those tendons. On the first phalanx of the thumb, these lateral ridges are rounded off. The first phalanges of both the fingers and the thumb are distinguished by having, at their upper ends, or bases, simple, transversely oblong, cup- like cavities, by which they are articulated by so many little ball-and-socket joints, with the rounded heads of the corresponding metacarpal bones. Whilst, however, the convex articular surfaces of these latter bones are longer from be- hind forwards than from side to side, the articular cavities of the first phalanges are longer from side to side than they are deep from before backwards. The latter, moreover, are not so large as the former; but, in the recent state, L