THE JOINTS OF THE UPPER LIMB. together by a rather loose capsule, strengthened by dorsal and palmar fibres, and by special external and internal lateral ligaments. Movements.—In the carpo-metacarpal joint at the root of the thumb, all movements are possible, except that of rotation, which is prevented by the opposed saddle-sliaped articular surfaces. Circumduction is very free; and so, especially, is a combination of flexion with adduction, to which the term opposition is given, and in which the entire thumb is brought over the front of the palm, so that its tip can be put in contact with one or all of the finger- tips. At the fifth carpo-metacarpal articulation, the movements are similar, but much less free; even a certain amount of opposition is possible, by which the inner border of the palm is elevated, and the ball of the little finger is made to approach the ball of the thumb. The Metacarpal Joints.—The small gliding joints between the bases of the four inner metacarpal bones, fig. Ill, are connected by transverse dorsal and palmar ligaments, and by strong interosseous ligaments. There is no joint between the bases of the first and second metacarpal bones, that of the thumb being, in this respect, free; but the two bones are tied together by a strong interosseous ligament. Its head is, of course, quite free ; even the heads of the four inner metacarpal bones do not articulate with each other, but are loosel}' connected together by a narrow transverse metacarpal ligament, fig. 182, which passes across their palmar aspect, beneath the flexor tendons, with the sheaths of which, as well as with the metacarpo- phalangeal ligaments, it is blended. Movements.—The gliding movements possible at the bases of the meta- carpal bones, are most free between the fifth and fourth metacarpals. Free lateral, and backward and forward motions can be produced between the heads of the four inner metacarpals; these give great suppleness to the hand, and a power of hollowing the palm and increasing the transverse curve on which the fingers rest, so that they more easily meet in front of the palm. The remaining joints in the hand, namely the metacarpo-phalangeal and the phalangeal, precisely similar to the corresponding metatarso-phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the foot, are, with the exception of those of the thumb, larger, and have their characters more pronounced, than those in the lower limb. The Metacarpo-Phalangeal Joints.—In these shallow and modi- fied ball-and-socket joints, fig. 113, there is no proper dorsal ligament, its place being supplied by the corresponding tendon of the extensor muscle, and by expansions from that tendon. An anterior ligament, a dense, longi- tudinal, fibro-cartilaginous, and, sometimes, bony structure, has been com- pared with the sesamoid bones of the corresponding joint of the thumb. It E