90 THE BONES. two superior, differ very much in the different regions of the spine. In the lumbar vertebrae, figs. 32, 33, they are placed further than elsewhere, behind the bodies or centres of motion; they are broad and strong, and project, almost vertically downwards and upwards, from the arch, here strengthened by the small tubercles above mentioned. The two lower ones, on each vertebra, are a little nearer the middle line than the upper ones; their articular surfaces are turned forwards and outwards, and are convex from front to back. The two upper ones, placed a little further apart, have their articular surfaces turned backwards and inwards, and concave from front to back. Hence the two lower articvdar processes of any one vertebra, are received between the two upper ones of the vertebra below it, the two separate joints representing interrupted parts of a single joint, the movements of which are thus performed securely. The advantage of this, in the com- paratively unsupported lumbar region, where the entire upper part of the body is balanced upon the pelvis, is sufficiently obvious. The two lower, convex and outwardly directed articular processes of the lowest lumbar vertebra, are wider apart than the rest, and are received between the two upper, still more widely separated concave and inwardly directed articular surfaces of the sacrum,—the surfaces of articulation being here wider apart than elsewhere. The articular processes of the first sacral vertebra approach in character those of the last lumbar vertebra. The two inferior articular processes of the twelfth dorsal vertebra, also resemble those of the first lumbar vertebra, in being convex, and directed forwards and outwards, thus giving great security to the most moveable of the joints in this region. In the dorsal region, generally, figs. 30, 31, the articular processes are smaller, stand nearly upright, and have their co-adapted surfaces flat, and vertical in the lower half of the series, but slanting downwards and backwards, in the upper half. Moreover, the lower ones look not only forwards, but slightly inwards, and the upper ones backwards and somewhat outwards, conditions which necessarily regulate the movements of different parts of the back. In the cervical region, figs. 28, 29, the articular processes become gradually shorter, somewhat broader, and are situated further behind the transverse processes. Their surfaces, large, oval, and nearly flat, exhibit a gradual change in their direction, so that, whilst in the lower part of the neck, they resemble those in the upper dorsal region, namely in slanting backwards and downwards, they become nearly horizontal, in the upper part, a condition which obviously favours freedom of motion in the neck. The Axis and Atlas.—These vertebrae, the second and the first cer- vical, are thus modified. The body of the seco'ncZ cervical vertebra, figs. 37, 38, is somewhat deeper in front, from above downwards, than the one below it, and its upper surface is not flattened for the attachment of an intervertebral disc.