294 THE MUSCLES. muscles at the back and outer side of the leg, which, however, do assist in extending the foot, as well as flexing the protarsus and toes. The gastro- cnemius is more powerful than the soleus. When the fore part of the foot is fixed on the ground, both muscles, in their forced action, raise the heel and lift the rest of the leg with the superincumbent weight of the whole body in space; in this movement, and also in the propulsion forward of the body, although they are aided by the deep posterior and the outer group, they are the important agents, the gastrocnemius being especially called into play. As the last-named muscle arises from the femur, it acts most effectually when the knee is straightened by the triceps extensor muscle connected with the patella in front. When the foot is resting flat, or on tip-toe, both muscles of the calf, acting from below, steady the tibia upon the astragalus, and prevent the leg and body from falling forwards; here also, they are assisted by the deep posterior and outer group, the soleus drawing upon the bones of the leg directly, but the gastrocnemius only indirectly, through the thigh bone, which becomes fixed at the knee joint. The double origin of these two muscles, absolutely united at their insertion by the tendo Achillis, is an instance of a provision, elsewhere met with in the limbs, for the performance of a given movement by one or the other muscle in different positions of flexion or extension of its component segments. Thus, for example, when the knee is bent, the gastrocnemius may lose some of its power of extending the foot, raising the heel, or supporting the leg, according as it acts from above or below, but the soleus, being attached to the leg bones below the knee, still remains equally competent to accomplish those actions. Moreover, in squatting with the knees bent and the heels raised, the gastrocnemius is relaxed, and so the leg, with this muscle softened, can be closely flexed upon the thigh, whilst, yet, the soleus remains contracted or capable of complete action, and can not only sustain the foot and leg in the required positions, but can begin drawing back the leg from its forwardly inclined direction, and gradually raise it on .the foot, as required for the erect attitude. In this progressive movement, the gastrocnemius cannot effectually assist, until the knee is more or less straightened, and held firm by its extensor muscles in front. Lastly, the gastrocnemius is a flexor of the leg upon the thigh, and of the thigh upon the leg. The fascia of the leg. This is continuous, below, with the annular ligaments of the ankle, and, above, with the strong fascia of the thigh which surrounds the knee. It embraces all the muscles of the leg, and is fixed to the periosteum on the anterior and posterior borders of the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, and also to the subcutaneous parts of the heads of the tibia and fibula; it is thicker just above the ankle, and on the outer side of the leg, but thinner on the inner side, and over the gastrocnemius; it sends intermuscular septa between the groups of muscles, and between the individual muscles of the leg.