THE MOVEABLE VERTEBRAE. 93 reduced in size, as to appear quite rudimentary, being represented only by a small posterior eminence, named the posterior tubercle, which serves for the at- tachment of two small muscles, but does not interfere with the backward move- ment of the skull in the act of looking upwards. The transverse processes are long and strong ; they project considerably beyond those of the subjacent cervical vertebrae, affording advantageous leverage for the oblique muscles of the head, and reach out, beneath the skull, towards the mastoid processes of the temporal bones; they are largely perforated at their base, by the foramen for the vertebral artery, but they are blunted, not bifid, at their apex. The two lower articular processes are adapted in situation and form, to the two upper articular processes of the axis; accordingly, they are large, nearly circular, situated in a line with, not behind, the transverse processes, very slightly concave, nearly horizontal from before backwards, and directed down- wards, inwards, and somewhat backwards. Together, the two serve to transmit the weight of the head from above, to the sides of the second vertebra, whence it passes obliquely forwards along two converging lines, to the body of that vertebra, and then downwards along a single line, from the body of the axis, to that of the vertebra beneath, and so on through the rest, the articular processes bearing less and less weight, in proceeding from above downwards. No part of the weight of the head can be transmitted through the slender anterior arch of the atlas, but the two superior articula surfaces of the atlas, one on each side, perform this office. They are large and peculiarly shaped ; sometimes described as oval, they are rather ear-shaped, having their incurved margins turned inwards, towards the vertebral foramen or canal; they are placed obliquely on each side of the ring of the vertebra, their anterior extremities being nearer together than the posterior. Their surfaces are very concave from before backwards, but only slightly so from side to side; their outer margins are much higher than their inner ones ; hence they form two rather deep ear-shaped cups, for the reception of the two convex condyles of the occipital bone, which are situated on the base of the skull. Besides receiving the superincumbent weight of the head, the two superior articular siurfaces of the atlas, furnish a double socket, for the back- ward and forward rolling movements of the occipital condyles, in the nodding motions of the head. On the other hand, the proper rotatory movements of the head take place, not between the occipital condyles and the atlas, but between the atlas and the axis, the atlas carrying the occiput with it, and moving around the odontoid process. This process, which is developed separately from the body of the axis, and becomes united to it only after a certain time, might be regarded as a part of the body of the atlas, which, ap- parently deficient, may be supposed to have been transferred to the vertebra beneath it. The moveable vertebrae afford points of attachment to numerous ligaments