THE MUSCLES. 252 moveable end being known as its insertiov. The origin is, most frequently, nearer to the centre of the body, and the insertion more remote from it. All muscles wliich are attached to bone, are provided with either tendons or aponeuroses. These white fibrous structures are inextensible and inelastic, or the muscular force would be partly lost in stretching them. The form and size, the breadth and length, of the aponeuroses and tendons vary much, according to their position and use, as well as the size, form, and structure of the fleshy parts themselves. On the trunk, the superfiicial muscles and their aponeuroses, fig. 119, are usually broad, flat, and thin, but the deeper ones are much subdivided; on the limbs, the muscles are more fi'equently long and rounded, fusiform or flat, whilst the tendons are flat, cordlike, tapering, and often split so as to reach many bones. Muscles sometimes arise directly and broadly from the surfaces of bones, or rather from the periosteum which covers the bones; but, more frequently, they arise by tendons. Such tendons of origin are usually broad or conical; but tendons of insertion, on the contrary, are generally long, and roundish or flattened, and often subdivided. The former arrangement enables a large number of muscular fibres to act from a single given part of the skeleton ; whereas the latter transmits a large amount of muscular force to distant and precise points of bone, sometimes even over one or more joints. In all cases, tendons not only do not waste the muscidar force which is applied to them, as they do not stretch, but they also serve to economise muscular substance. Tendons are also employed, where one muscle has to move over another, or has to emerge from, or dip in, amongst others, so that, although friction must take place between them, they glide over each other without pain, synovial bursse frequently intervening. Pain would be experienced, if muscle moved on muscle, or muscle on tendon, or the reverse. In the action of the muscles on the solid framework of the body, the force employed operates on the bones after the manner of levers in mechanics, the fulcra being usually situated in the joints. Examples of all three kinds of levers are met with in different situations in the body, but the first and third are much more frequently employed than the second. The first, in which the fulcrum is the middle factor, is chiefly used where strength is required, as at the back of the hip joint, and of the neck ; the third, in which the power is in the middle, is employed where swiftness of movement is needed, as in front of the elbow, and at the back of the knee ; the second, properly considered, is used very sparingly, as beneath the lower jaw, but not at the heel, as is usually taught. The relative lengths of the lever arms, that is of the power arm and weight arm, differ also according to need; but this subject cannot be fully discussed here. The first action of the muscles is to press the articular surfaces of the joints together ; afterwards, they move the bones. Usually, the efficient action of a muscle is exerted in the line of