34 THE BONES. end or base, it has a broad, articular surface, divided into two, by a blunt vertical ridge, so as to be adapted to the pulley-like surface, on the head of the first phalanx ; near this end, it has a broad tubercle on its dorsal aspect, for the insertion of the proper extensor tendon, and a rough surface, on its plantar aspect, for that of the long flexor tendon. Its first phalanx is not only the largest of those of the foot, but it is at least twice, or more than twice, as broad as any of the others, which diminish in size from the second to the fiftli. Its articular surfaces are very broad ; tlie posterior one is deeply concave. The inter-phalangeal joint of the great toe is, like those of the other toes, a hinge-joint; the metatarso-phalangeal joint, at the base of this toe, is also a ball-and-socket joint. The Metatarsal Bones.—The five metatarsal bones, figs. 7 to 10, are placed behind the phalanges, between them and the bones of the tarsus. They are small, but chai'acteristic long bones, having, comparatively, slender shafts, and expanded extremities, for connexion with other bones. They are arranged nearly parallel with each other, but diverge somewhat at their anterior ends, so that the quadrangular form of the entire tarsus is not quite regular. The tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones are in actual contact, except the first and second, which, although close together, do not quite touch each otlier ; but their phalangeal extremities are all of them, and especially the first and second, apart, being merely held together by intermediate ligamentous bands ; hence this part of the foot itself is broader in front. Between these bones, are four narrow spaces, named the interosseous spaces, whicli become wider in front. The entire metatarsus is nearly quadrilateral in shape, but its indi- vidual bones are of unequal length, so that their anterior extremities corre- spond with a curved line, the most convex part of which is opposite the head of the second metatarsal bone, and which passes obliquely, backwards and outwards, to that of the fifth. They are also unequal in size. The first, or innermost, is the shortest and thickest, and, therefore, the strongest, being- intended to support the great toe, towards the ball of which it descends ; but it is too short to reach the level of the other metatarsal bones, and is here supported on two sesamoid hones, placed beneath its anterior end, figs. 7, 9. The second, third, and fourth metatarsals are all very slender. The second is the longest, its anterior end projecting forwards, to approach the ground opposite the ball of the second toe, without the intervention of sesa- n'-oid bones, whilst its hinder end passes backwards, beyond the first and second metatarsal bones, to meet the shortest of the cuneiform bones. The third is shorter than the second, but longer than the first. The fourth closely re- sembles the third, but is somewhat smaller. Lastly, the fifth has its shaft a little shorter than the fourth, but much thicker, and also slightly curved outwards at its fore-part, as if to afford additional strength and width to the