17 THE SKELETON. the true ribs, otherwise the vertebrosternal ribs. The lower five ribs, the cartilages of which do not reach the sternum, are named the false ribs ; of these, the cartilages of the upper three turn upwards, and are attached to the next cartilage above, they are therefore called the vertebro-costal ribs ; but the two lower ribs, viz. the eleventh and twelfth on each side, have their tips free in the soft parts, and are named, accordingly, the floating ribs, and from their being connected with the vertebrze only, the vertebral ribs. The sternum, which is interposed between, and attached to, the upper seven 'costal cartilages, is originally composed of separate bony pieces ; it extends from the root of the neck down to the so-called pit of the stomach. The ttvelve dorsal vertebrae, the twenty-four ribs with their cartilages, twelve on each side, and the sternum, enclose together a large cavity named the thorax or chest {6d)pa^, a breast-plate); in this cavity, during life, are lodged the heart and large blood-vessels, the two lungs, a portion of the windpipe, a part of the gullet, and certain other structures. Above the thorax, that is, in the neck as high as the floor of the mouth, are found the continuations of the large blood- vessels going to the head and upper limbs, the rest of the windpipe with the larynx or organ of voice placed at its upper end, and behind that, supported on the cervical vertebrge, the upper part of the gullet, with the pharynx or throat-sac. Above the larynx, and just beneath the base of the tongue, both of which it supports, is a small transversely placed bone, the lingual bone {lingua, the tongue) or hyoid hone, named from its being shaped like the small Greek letter upsilon {v ; slhos, form). The cavity of the thorax is bounded below by a special structure or partition, composed of muscle and tendon, named the diaphragon {8id, between ; t^pdaaco, I fence) ; by this, it is separated from the lower cavity of the trunk, named the abdomen {abdere, to hide). The abdomen is placed opposite the lumbar region of the vertebral column, which is its only bony support behind; the lower ribs above, and the hip-bones below, bound it in those directions ; the rest of its walls are formed by certain broad' muscles and fascise ; it is occupied, almost entirely, by the digestive and the excretory apparatus. It will be observed that the cranium, which contains the brain, has bony walls ; the walls of the thorax are partly bony and partly muscular or tendinous; whilst the abdomen has its front and sides, and also its diaphragmatic boundary above, composed of muscle or tendon only. The two sets of bones, or bony girdles, which serve as bases of attachment for the upper and lower limbs, and may be regarded as the roots of those- limbs, although they also enter, as structural elements, into the formation of the trunk, require next to be noticed. The upper set consists of the two clavicles or collar-bones, left and right, CI, and of the two scapulce, shoulder- bones, or blade-bones, left and right, Sc The clavicles, or collar-bones, so named from their shape and situation (clavicula, a small key or latch ; collum, C ^9 ..^^wr'^T RIDING