307 TRE MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. close to, and often conjoined with, the pyriformis. A few fibres are fixed to the capsule of the hip joint. Gluteus medius, figs. 139, 140, 143, 145, 146, Deep in its hinder portion, superficial in its fore part; broad, thick and triangular, its fibres converging to a strong narrow tendon appearing on the hinder part of the muscle; obliquely downwards and outwards. Outer surface of the ilium, between the superior curved line and the crest, as far back as the vertical line, and as far forwards as the tensor vaginae femoris muscle, also from the strong fascia which covers its anterior portion—••—an impression on the outer surface of the greater trochanter, in front of an oblique line running downwards and for- wards on that process. Gluteus maximus, figs. 142, 145,146,''«,''^'. Superficial through- out, but covered by a strong fascia, a large quantity of adipose tissue, and a thick integument; one of the largest muscles in the body, quadrilateral, broad and thick, composed of exceedingly coajse fasciculi; oblique downwards, out- wards and forwards, bound down closely to the gluteus medius along its thinner upper margin, but loose or free, and very thick; along its lower border, which is covered by a large fold of skin and much subcutaneous granular fat. Posterior fourth of the crest of the ilium, sm'face of that bone behind the vertical line, back of the lower part of the sacrum and of the coccyx, great sacro-sciatic ligament, and aponeurosis of the erector spinse muscle on a thin but strong tendinous lamina, which passes over the greater trochanter, a bursa intervening, and joins the fascia of the tliigh, the loiuer third, on a thick short tendon, which is fixed to the lower part of the rough line leading from the greater trochanter to the linea aspera, between the adductor magnus and vastus externus, with which latter muscle it is slightly connected. Tlie X 2 Fig. 145.- -Muscles of the Thigh ; Group. the Gluteal -the upper two thirds of the muscle.