135 THE BONES OF THE FOKE-ARM. ridge of the humerus. The inner end of this border is rounded off abruptly, but, externally, it turns more gently outwards and downwards, where it forms the upper limit of the triangular surface on the back of the expanded upper end of the ulna, which is here really subcutaneous. This subcutaneous surface is defined above, by the tendinous insertion of the triceps ; its inner and outer borders corresponding with the oblique lines on the bone, which converge from the sides of the olecranon to the upper end of the posterior ridge of the ulna, are bounded by the slightly curved borders of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the anconeus. When these muscles are relaxed, this triangular surface appears nearly on a level with them, but when tliey are in a state of contraction, it is depressed. Below this surface, the posterior ridge of the ulna forms a narrow, sinuous, linear depression, which may be termed the ulnar furrow, and which runs downwards and outwards, at first between the two above-named muscles, and then between the flexor and the extensor carpi ulnaris ; the upper part "of this furrow turns towards the radius, but the lower part bends away from that bone ; it gradually becomes effaced below, because the muscles become smaller, and then tendinous, and the bony ridge itself is more rounded. Finally, it may be traced, as a slightly rounded elevation running down between the tendons of the flexor and extensor cai-pi ulnaris, towards the back of the inner border of the wrist, to the small subcutaneous part of the styloid process ; im- mediately behind that, is the posterior prominent portion of the head of the ulna, which forms a very marked and charactexistic rounded projection at the back of the inner border of the fore-arm, just above the wrist; it is more prominent in pronation than in supination of the fore-arm. The point of the styloid process bends towards the wrist-joint, and does not protrude on the surface. The radius is even much more completely invested by overlying muscles than the ulna. A small part only, of the circular border of the head of the bone, lies closely beneath the integuments, just below, and a little in front of, the epi-condyle, where it is covered, however, by the ex- ternal lateral and the orbicular ligaments, and partially also by the supinator longus muscle. When the arm is dependent, and the hand is supinated, that is, with the palm turned forwards, then, the outermost part of the acro- mion process of the scapula, the most prominent part of the great tuberosity of the humerus, the epi-condyle of that bone, the head of the radius, the styloid process of that bone, and the root of the thumb, are nearly in the same vertical line, deflected slightly backwards, however, at a very obtuse angle, opposite the elbow-joint. In the skeleton, the head of the radius projects out beyond the capitel- lum of the humerus, when the fore-arm is extended; but it is level with it, when the fore-arm is flexed; it is also prominent during pronation, but depressed during supination, When, however, the bones are covered with the