THE JOINTS OF THE SHOULDER-GIRDLE. 231 Movements.— The slight gliding movements at the vertebral ends of the ribs and the sternal ends of their cartilages, permit movements of elevation and depression of each rib, around the chord of what may be called the costo- ehondral arc. In these movements, the ribs ascend and descend, and likewise rotate on their two extremities ; the inter-costal spaces widen and contract; the entire chest is, alternately, elongated, widened, and increased in depth from before backwards, or shortened and contracted both in width and depth. The sternum is, at the same time, either lifted upwards and forwards, especially its lower part, or it retires downwards and backwards. These are the respiratory movements of the thoracic walls, the expanding movements being those of inspiration, and the contracting movements those of expiration. They are supplemented, in their effects upon the general capacity of the thorax, by the associated movements of the diaphragm, which powerful muscle con- tracts and descends in inspiration, so as to elongate the chest, and then relaxes so as to ascend, and thus help in shortening that cavity. But the thorax is also subject to a variety of movements, as a part of the trunk. Thus, the ribs, especially the lower ones, approximate in front, as the spine bends forwards, and separate from each other, when the lumbar and lower dorsal regions are carved backwards; in lateral inclination of the spine, the ribs ap- proximate on the side of the movement, and separate on the opposite side ; they must necessarily be opposed to rotatory movement of the spine ; and this, as we have seen, is very slight in the dorsal region, to which the ribs are confined. The Joints of the Shoulder-Girdle. The Sterno-Clavicular Joint.—In the Interiorof this gliding joint, fig. 98, is a circular inter-articular fibro-cartilage, thicker at its circumference than at its centre, and firmly fixed, by its lower edge, to the lower border of the sternal articular facet, and to the cartilage of the first rib, and by its upper edge, which is its thickest portion, to the upper and back part of the inner end of the clavicle. The joint is, therefore, usually double, the sternal part being the looser; but sometimes the cartilage is perforated, and then the two parts communicate. The general capsule, which is thicker behind, and everywhere attached to the edges of the fibro-cartila^'e, is strengthened by a broad anterior ligament, fig. 98, passing obliquely from bone to bone ; by a narrower posterior ligament; and by a flat band, of variable size, named the inter-clavicular ligament, fig, 98, which ties together the inner ends of the two collar bones, passing across, adhering to, and partly filling up the supra-sternal notch, the surface-forms of which it modifies. At a short distance from the outer side of the sterno-clavicular joint, is the costo-clavicular, or rhomboid ligament, fig. 98, a short, flat band, which connects the cartilage of the first