THE STRUCTUKE AND ACTION OF THE MUSCLES. 255 of a joint, extend it, others on the opposite side, flex it; some abduct, and others addud, the bone into which they are inserted ; others rotate it, and, lastly, all these co-operate in circumducting it. As the articular surfaces of a joint are shaped in harmony with the muscles which act upon it, so, as already stated (p. 207), the muscles are developed, constructed, disposed, and attached, in strict conformity with the character and possible movements of the joint on which they act, the agreement being one of simultaneous and harmonised organic evolution and growth. Gliding joints and hinge joints have fewer muscles than ball-and-socket joints; gliding joints usually have short muscles, hinge and ball-and-socket joints, longer ones ; hinge joints have their muscles on two sides of the joint, ball-and-socket joints, on all sides ; rolling joints have rotating muscles, but no hinge joint has a rotating or a circumduccory system of muscles; lastly, special joints, such as those concerned in the pronation and supination of the fore-arm and hand, have their special muscles, pronators and supinators. Muscles are often obviously arranged in groups, having a common function ; other groups have opposing functions ; some assist or supplement, and others check or restrain, the operation of adjacent muscles, or groups of muscles, so that there are associated, accessory, supplementary, and also opposing or antagonistic, muscles, or groups of muscles. As the movements at a given joint are sometimes free and sometimes forced, p. 207, so a muscle, or a set of muscles, may act either freely, that is from the centre of the body to the limbs, or from the root of a limb to its extremity, or forcedly, that is, from the fixed part of a limb, inwards towards its root, or towards the trunk. The former may also be called direct, and the latter reversed, actions of the same muscle or muscles. Usually the muscles of the upper limbs act freely or directly, but, when these limbs hold on to a fixed object, or support the body, their action is forced or reversed ; on the contrary, the muscles of the lower limbs act forcedly or reversedly, wlien they are engaged in sustaining the weight of the body, or in propelling it forwards and upwards in locomotion, but freely or directly, when the limb is projected forwards, sideways, or backwards, in space. The muscles of the neck always act freely, even when a weight is carried on the head, but, forcedly, in the case of a clown standing, as it is called, on that part. The muscles of the lower limb, especially, have always to be studied as if acting from below, with the foot fixed on the ground, as well as from above, with the limb moving in the air. The muscles erect and move the body and enable it to carry weights. Speaking generally, when muscles cease to act, the weight of the part acted on, serves to restore the balance on one side or the other of a joint; but, where gravity does not especially operate, as in the case of the muscles of the eyeballs or of the face generally, the tonic condition of all the surrounding muscles conjointly, produces a state of equilibrium in the parts concerned.