THE COVERINGS OF THE MUSCLES. 271 organs, even in the most energetic actions; and when the muscles are at rest, the coverings almost entirely obliterate their specific forms, leaving only the general masses revealed. In some parts, too, as over the front of the knee, in the groin, above the iliac crest, and at the back of the elbow, the foldings or creasings of tbe skin even tra\'erse the muscular forms. In the face, all the muscular forms are hid, the skin folds and wrinkles, entirely determining the actual surface-forms. The precise influence of the general integument in concealing the sub- jacent forms of the bones, muscles and tendons, which are still recognisable tlirough it, depends not merely on the thickness of the skin proper, but also on that of the fatty covering or panniculus adiposus belonging to the supt r- ficial fascia. These two parts by no means correspond in thickness. The following measurements, taken on a well-nourished subject, indicate the amount of concealment of the subjacent parts in different regions of the body, or, as it may otherwise be expressed, the degree in which those parts are more or less clearly revealed upon the surface. Commencing with the sole of the foot, the thickness of the skin and subjacent fat under the os calcis was found to be iths of an inch, and under the ball of the great toe ^ an ineli. Behind the inner malleolus and on the leg generally, it was j\ths of an inch, and over the middle of the calf ^ of an inch ; but over the tendo Achillis it was only ^th of an inch, so that the form of that tendon is very conspicuously revealed. On each side of the patella, it was ^ of an inch ; in the upper part of the popliteal space, f^ths of an inch ; over the rest of the thigh generally, y'-g-ths ; but on the inside it was rather less, and on the outer side and back, it was from j^hs to -|ths, over the gluteus maximus, and even 1 inch on the outer and upper part of the back of the thigh. Over the abdomen, it varied from f ths, above Poupart's ligament, to ^ an inch, at the side of the umbilicus; over the great pectoral muscle, and in the axilla, it was only l of an inch ; on the back, j^g-ths of an inch in the lumbar region, J- of an inch in the dorsal region, but as much as ^ an inch over the spine between the scapulse, and again only y5g-ths,at the posterior border of the scapula, and over the ligamentum nuchse. At the top of the deltoid it was i of an inch, but over the swell of that muscle, |ths ; in the middle of the arm, ^ of an inch ; in the forearm, it also averaged about -|th, but was greater on the outer side ; lastly, over the ball of the thumb, and the palm generally, it was between ifh and y-g-ths. The Subcutaneous Veins.—In certain regions of the trunk and limbs, where the skin is thin, and loosely attached to the proper fascia, as on the back of the foot, the inner side and back of the leg, the inner side and front of the thigh, the front of the abdomen and chest, the front and sides of the neck, the forehead and temples, the front of the arm and forearm, and the back of the hand, the subcutaneous veins are suflficiently large to