THE MUSCLES. 392 from the styloid and mastoid processes of the temporal bone, and from the inner surface of the lower jaw, a little below the level of the arch of which, it is placed, horizontally, across the middle line, with its open ends turned backwards, and so held in position, that it determines the peculiar re- entering angle of the neck, beneath the lower jaw, fig. 190. It not only supports the tongue above, but most of the lingual muscles are attached to it; from it, hangs the larynx below ; and in this direction, the bone itself is connected by muscles with the first rib, the sternum, the clavicle and the scapula. The anterior surface of the thicker central part, or body, of the hyoid bone, is marked by impressions for the attachment of muscles, but its lower border is subcutaneous. Its open ends, named the greater cornua, and two smaller nearly upright processes, named the lesser cornua, are for the attachment of its suspensory ligaments and its elevator muscles. The prongs of this horse-shoe shaped bone, serve to protect, and keep open the superior aperture of the larynx, which they partly embrace, and so secure the constant freedom of this passage to air, a condition necessary to life. The larynx or organ of voice, figs. 188,189,190. This part of the common air passage leading to the lungs, forms a three-sided and inverted pyramid, having its base suspended from the hyoid bone, its truncated apex connected with the trachea, one side turned backwards to the throat, and its other two sides meeting at a projecting vertical ridge in the median line of the neck, a short distance below the re-entering angle corresponding with the hyoid bone. Its framework consists of four principal cartilages. First, the cricoid cartilage, fig. 190, c, named from its resemblance to a signet ring {KpUos, a ring), forms a short, hollow cylinder or ring, placed at the top of the trachea, with its narrow or shallow part turned forwards and recognisable in front, and its broader, deeper, or signet-like part, turned backwards. Eesting upon the sides of the cricoid, and overlapping it, is the largest cartilage of the larynx, named, from its shape and office, the thyroid cartilage, figs. 188, 189, 190, t (Ovpsos, a shield) ; this consists of a transversely oblong, cartilaginous plate, notched in the middle of its upper border, and bent backwards on itself in the middle line, so as to form the ridge above mentioned; its two halves or alee, spread apart backwards, embrace and conceal the sides of the cricoid cartilage, and terminate in two free hinder borders. These borders end, above and below, in little processes, called cornua, the lower ones, short and turned forwards, articulating by small facets with the sides of the cricoid cartilage, the upper ones, longer and curved backwards, being connected by ligaments with the greater cornua of the hyoid bone. The upper notched border of the thyroid cartilage, much longer than the lower border, is attached to the hyoid bone by the thyro-hyoid membrane, which, however, is not fixed to the lower margin of that bone, but passes behind its inner curved surface, to gain its upper margin; and, as the upper