THE THIGH-BONE. 63 responding head of the gastro-cnemius muscle; the outer head of this muscle arises also from the external surface of the condyle ; the depression behind it, is, moreover, extended upwards, to give origin to the plantaris muscle ; on the outer condyle, just below and behind the external tuberosity, is a small pit for the origin of the tendon of the popliteus muscle, a sort of groove extending backwards from it, for the lodgment of that tendon, when the knee is fully bent. At the upper end of the femur, at the junction of the shaft with the so- called neck of the bone, are placed the two characteristic eminences named the trochanters, figs. 19, 20, the larger one, situated on the outer side of the neck of the bone, being named the trochanter major, or greater trochanter, and the smaller one, situated on the inner posterior aspect of the bone, being called the trochanter minor, or lesser trochanter ; they are also known as the great and small trochanters. The greater trochanter reaches to within three quarters of an inch of the level of the top of the head of the femur, and may be said to surmount the outer part of the shaft of the bone, from which it stands up as a blunt quadrilateral prominence, having its broad, square, convex, rough outer surface bevelled off obliquely above, so as to be directed upwards, outwards, and a little backwards, away from the pelvis. It serves for the attachment of various muscles. The upper narrower portion of the vastus externus, arises from the base of the trochanter in front, on its outer side, and slightly behind. Into the thick sides of the trochanter, is inserted the so-called trochanteric group of muscles. Thus, into its broad anterior surface, is inserted the gluteus minimus; into the inner side of its summit, the obturator internus with the two gemelli; behind these, the pyriformis, and to the thick and bevelled outer surface of the trochanter, the gluteus medius. Below and behind this attachment, but separated from it by an oblique line running downwards and forwards, is a smooth surface, over which the strong tendon of the gluteus maximus glides, to reach its destination lower down along the outer diverging edge of the linea aspera. At the inner and upper part of the root of the trochanter, where its very prominent posterior border overhangs the neck of the bone, is the digital or trochanteric fossa for the insertion of the obturator externus; to a small eminence seen on the posterior intertrochanteric line, from which descends a short ridge quite at the upper end of the shaft, named the linea quadrati, is attached the quadratus femoris muscle, reaching as low as the upper border of tlie adductor magnus, the quadratus occupying the upper part of that line, and the adductor magnus the lower part; lastly, immediately below and in front of its lower border or base, is attached the highest point of the vastus externus. Thus it is seen, that only a very small portion of the surface of the greater trochanter, namely, that bounded by the attachments of the gluteus medius behind and above, by the gluteus minimus in front, and by the upper end of the vastus