THE BONES. 122 ing through the centre of the head, be compared with the vertical transverse plane passing through the lower end of the bone, it will be found that this latter is really twisted slightly outwards. The shaft of the femur, on the other hand, is strongly bent backwards, and its lower end is rotated inwards. The upper end, or head, of the humerus, much wider than the shaft, presents a smooth, convex, articular surface,' consisting of about one-third of a spheroid, figs. 49, 50, 52, placed obliquely on the inner side of the ex- panded shaft; it has its axis directed upwards, inwards, and somewhat back- wards, to meet the glenoid cavity, which has an almost opposite direction, but which can only partially receive it, and the lower edge of which, in the depend- ent position of the arm, projects beneath it. The head of the femur forms two- thirds of a spheroid, and is received deeply and almost entirely into the aceta- bulum, which projects above it. The articular surface extends further upwards than downwards, and also further towards the posterior than towards the anterior aspect of the bone; it measures somewhat more from above downwards, than it does from before backwards. Beyond the borders of the articular surface, between it and the shaft, is a very short, somewhat constricted part of the bone, named the neck, which is evidently the counterpart of the neck of the femur. This latter, however, is of much greater relative length, so that, to employ a botanical phrase, the head of the femur may be said to be pedunculated, whilst that of the humerus might be described as being sessile, on its shaft. The axis of the neck is oblique, in reference to that of the shaft, and forms, as is the case with the femur, a very obtuse angle, of about 120°, with it. The neck itself is longest just beneath the head, that is, on the inner side of the bone; it becomes gradually shorter, both behind and in front; above, it forms merely a narrow groove, which is lost opposite the base of two short, broad eminences, named the tuberosities of the humerus. These tuberosities, figs. 49, 52, blend below with the shaft, and are evidently comparable with the trochanters of the femur, but they are smaller and less prominent. The larger and broader one, placed to the outer side of the head of the bone, pro- jects outwards beyond the acromion process, and here forms the extreme outer point of the skeleton ; it is named the greater tuberosity, and has, upon its upper blunt oblong surface, three flattened impressions, namely, an anterior one, for the attachment of the tendon of the supra-spinatus, a middle one, for that of the infra-spinatus, and a posterior one, for that of the teres minor muscle. The smaller, but somewhat more prominent, tuberosity, named the lesser tuberosity, is situated in front, and to the inner side, of the other, and gives attachment to the tendon of the subscapular muscle. The greater tube- rosity is said to represent the lesser trochanter, and the lesser tuberosity, the greater trochanter of the femur. Between the two tuberosities, is the upper end of a deep and narrow groove, which passes downwards and a little inwards, for nearly one-third of the