127 THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. distinctly recognisable, diu-ing extension of the fore-arm, as the most pro- jecting point on the inner side of the elbow ; but it forms a less prominent point, or is even placed in a depression, when the muscles are folded up around it, in the position of flexion. Thus, it will be seen that the only parts of this very large bone, which are covered by the integument alone, so that they directly influence the surface-forms, are small portions of the free surfaces of the epi- condyle and the epi-trochlea. TuE Bones of the Fore-aem. The Ulna and the Eadius. The Ulna.—The ulna, also named the cubit (cubitus, the bow or bend of the arm; kvtttslv, to bend), is the bone on which the weight of the trunk is supported in leaning on the elbow, as in assuming or leaving the recumbent posture, or in the half reclining attitude of the Roman people, and others, at their meals (whence recumbere and cubare). The inner of the two parallel long bones of the fore-arm, it extends from the elbow to the wrist, and is placed a little behind the other bone, the radius, figs. 53 to 57. The ulna is longer than the radius, reaching considerably higher up than it, at the back of the elbow, but not quite so low down at the wrist. Its upper end is, by far, the largest part of the bone, which becomes gradually smaller or tapering towards its lower end; whereas, the radius is smaller above, and much the broadest at its lower end. Of the two bones, the ulna contributes much the larger share to the elbow-joint, but the radius alone takes part in the forma- tion of the wrist-joint, with which the iilna is not directly connected. In the leg, both bones enter into the ankle-joint, whilst the tibia alone is concerned in the formation of the knee. Lastly, whereas the tibia and fibula are so firmly articulated, that the latter merely glides on the former, the radius is very peculiarly articulated with the ulna, so as to be able to be rotated freely, on its longitudinal axis, upon that bone. The upper expanded end of the ulna, presents, anteriorly, a deep and wide smooth notch, bounded, in front and behind, by two remarkable processes, to be immediately described. The outline of this notch, as seen from the side, is semi- circular, like the old Greek S, or sigma, C ; hence it is named the sigmoid notch, figs. 53, 55, 56. It is further distinguished as the greater sigmoid notch, there being another much smaller, more simple, and shallower crescentic excavation, close beneath it on its outer side, which is called the lesser sigmoid notch. These notches are continuous, and, when lined with cartilage, form parts of a common joint. The greater notch receives the trochlear portion of the lower end of the humerus ; and the lesser notch, the side of the head of the radius, which rotates within it. The greater notch, deeply concave from above downwards, has a smooth vertical ridge, which fits into the groove of the trochlea, and divides the cavity of the notch itself into two unequal lateral parts, of which the