THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 97 the loins and neck, and the backward movement of the skull. In the upright posture, there are no such intervals in the dorsal region, and even in the stooping postiure, they are covered by the deep laminae and the long over- lapping spinous processes. The four well-known, alternating, antero-posterior curves of the spine, named the sacral, lumbar, dorsal and cervical curves, may be recognised on both the back and front views of the vertebral column (see figs. 26, 27). In front, there may be easily distinguished, the concavity of the sacral curve, below the promontory of the sacrum ; above that promontory, are seen the convexity of the lumbar, the concavity of the dorsal, and, lastly, the convexity of the cervical curve. Behind, on the other hand, the sacrum is convex, the loins are concave, the back is convex, and the neck again concave. But these curves, and especially their lengths, depths, and other peculiarities, are better seen from their lateral aspect, fig. 6. It is then apparent that the sacral curve is the shortest and most abrupt; that the lumbar curve is longer and somewhat flatter, and, indeed, extends slightly into the lower part of the back ; that the dorsal curve is the longest, and is well pronounced ; and, lastly, that the cervical curve is shorter and comparatively gentle. The change of form at the pro- montory of the sacrum, is sudden, and hence the term, sacro-vertebral angle, fig. 27, applied to the junction of the sacral and lumbar regions; above this angle, the different curves pass gradually into each other. The spinal curves depend chiefly on the difierences, already mentioned, between the thick- ness of the fore part and hind part of the bodies of the vertebrae in each region; but they are also partly due to concurrent differences in the thick- ness of the intervertebral discs, which, for example, are somewhat thicker before than behind in the cervical and lumbar regions, but thicker behind than before in the back. The contours of the spinal curves, as seen from the side, are no equal before and behind, that is, as traced along the bodies of the vertebrae, and along the spinous processes. Thus, the sacral concavity in front, is more pronounced than its convexity behind ; the lumbar convexity in front, has a higher degree of curvature than its concavity behind ; the dorsal concavity and convexity, before and behind, are more equal; and, lastly, the cervical anterior convexity is less evident than its posterior concavity. Surface-forms dependent on the Vertebrce. The anterior surface and the sides of the vertebral column, turned towards the viscera in the interior of the body, towards the ribs in the back, and towards the muscles in the loins and neck, are entirely concealed; this is true also of the greater part of its posterior surface, which, especially in the loins and neck, is deeply embedded in, or covered by, muscles. The only parts of H