THE SKELETON. 29 ' still life;' and its careful representation is one of the best exercises for the pencil of a youthful draughtsman. It is to be noted, lastly, that the bones, as we have already mentioned, were not originally hard and opaque, nor made of compact and cancellated tissue, with the laminge of tlie former and the trabeculse of the latter specially and definitely arranged; nor were they at first possessed of the varieties of form, so remarkable in the adult state. On the contrary, with the exception of some of the bones of the head, those especially of the sides and upper part of the cranium, which are developed from membrane,— the various pieces of the skeleton in their primordial condition, are very simply shaped and com- paratively soft, semi-ti'ansparent, homogeneous nodules, bars, or plates of carti- lage or gristle. Even at an early period of growth, when ossification has begun at one or several points within them, their outline and surfaces retain much, of their original simplicity ; but Avhen growth is fully completed, and they are truly bones, they assume their special morphological characters ; instead of being homogeneous, they acquire their cancellated internal, and compact external, structure, whilst the primitive cartilage is retained, though slightly modified, upon the articular surfaces of the joints. During the whole period of growth, however, tliey are not merely influenced by their own developmental tendencies, due to an organising force, but they are incessantly subjected to gravity, to local pressure, and to the strain and pull of the muscles sur- rounding them, and everywhere attached to, or bearing upon, them. They are formed, indeed, imder such conditions, that comparatively soft and simple at first, they grow not merely in strict harmony with the niuscles and tendons connected or associated with them, but are gradually shaped, in dependence upon, and under the control of, the muscular force, and the influence of local pressure and weight. To these agencies, the curves and torsions, prominences and grooves must be mainly due; they must continue to operate during the whole of life; hence, even in the adult state, the bones, which are continually having their substance changed and renovated, very often, owing to special circumstances of pressure or muscular strain, or to excess or want of use, undergo actual alterations in their form. The proper forms of the skeleton, however rigid and unchangeable their shape after death, have thus owed their production to processes dependent upon life. It is this which is evidenced in their subtle contours ; it is this which always imparts to them an interest they would not otherwise possess. They are organic; they grow, they are not simply moulded or manufactured; though dead, the history of a past life is written in indelible characters upon them.