104 THE BONES. upper seven ribs thus become longer, in passing from the first to the eighth, yet, as the respective costal cartilages become longer also, the places of junction of the two, become more and more widely separated from the middle line in front. This is true likewise of the places of junction of the succeeding ribs and their cartilages, which continue to diverge laterally. The gradually increasing length of both the osseous and the cartilaginous portions of the seven true ribs, is associated with the progressively increasing obliquity of both portions, namely, of the ribs downwards, forwards, and inwards, and of the cartilages downwards and outwards, to meet them. It also explains the increased girth or circumference of the thorax, in its lower part. Compared with one another, in the complete thorax, the ribs increase slightly in breadth, from the lowest to the first; they also describe parts of smaller circles, from below upwards, the changes being most rapid in the upper ribs. Besides the muscles already mentioned, as being attached to the ribs, the pectoralis minor arises from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, externally to their cartilages ; the pectoralis major takes origin from the sixth to the second costal cartilage ; the rectus muscle of the abdomen is attached to the carti- lages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs; the external and internal inter- costal muscles are connected with the upper and lower borders of the costal cartilages, as well as with the ribs. The external oblique muscle of the abdo- men arises from the eight lower ribs; the serratus magnus from the eight upper ribs ; and the latissimus dorsi from the three or four lower ones. The diaphragm is attached to the lower border of the last rib, and to those of the cartilages of the succeeding ribs, up to the seventh, that is, to the entire lower free margin of the thorax. The internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles of the abdomen, and the triangularis sterni, are connected with certain of the cartilages and ribs. The quadratus lumborum is inserted into the twelfth rib. With some of the ribs, also, the two posterior serrati muscles, and the accessory muscles of the erector spinse, are connected. Lastly, each rib has its special little levator muscle attached to it behind, near its verte- bral end ; some of them have an infra-costalis muscle also. The Sternum, or Breast-Bone.—This flattened, median bone fits in between the cartilages of the upper seven ribs, so as to close in the chest, in front, fig. 27. It also serves to support the clavicles above, and conse- quently furnishes a base of support for the upper limbs. The entire bone, fig. 42, has been compared to a short, straight sword, like a Eoman sword, and its lower, middle, and upper parts, have been named, respectively, the point, the blade, and the handle. In an early state, as many as five or six separate pieces may be recognised. The lowest and smallest part of the sternum, situated just above the pit of the stomach, is pointed downwards, and remains cartilaginous to a late period