THE SKELETON CONSIDERED GENERALLY. 179 which supports it. At first, the angle is very obtuse, the ramus slanting upwards and backwards, and only gradually acquiring a more rectangular outline. As growth advances, it is chiefly the portion of the jaws in which the molar teeth are implanted, that increases in length, to accommodate those teeth, which, in the second dentition, are so much larger than those of the first, and occujjy a position in the jaw behind them. Tpie Skeletox considered generally. The bony framework not only regulates the height, breadth, and depth of the vertebrate form, but it so obviously determines its general and local cha- racters, proportions, and shape, that it is easy to distinguish the skeleton of any well-known animal. The human skeleton is instantly recognised amongst a host of others, even amongst those of the highest apes. P'rom the feet to the head, the complex skeleton of man, figs. 64, 65, is constructed with special reference to its fitness for the erect position in standing, and in locomotion ; even the shoulder-girdles and upper limbs, set apart for purposes of tact and prehension, are specially modified, so as to be in accord with the upright position of the trunk, to or from which they are attached or suspended. In both the lower and upper limbs, the segments into which they are divided, namely, the thigh, leg, and foot, and the arm, fore-arm, and hand, diminish, in man, regularly in length; this is true even of tlie phalanges of the toes and fingers; but, in the mammalia generally, the segments of the limbs usually increase in length, from the trunk to the distal end of the limb. The lower limbs are characteristically large in man. The feet are not only in themselves very broad and strong, but they are very large in pro- portion to the body; they are also peculiar, in being placed completely at right angles to the leg, and in the perfect manner in which the entire weight- bearing parts, from heel to toes, can be planted on the ground ; the double arcli of the foot, longitudinal and transverse, and, necessarily, the arched instep, are exceptionally well developed, so as to receive and transmit the weight from the leg; the great toe is especially large and strong, and, moreover, characteristically parallel to the others, not opposable as it is even in the most anthropoid apes ; hence, it bears weight on its ball in front, in conjunction with the balls of the other toes, and can act as a strong lever for the forward propulsion of the body, in walking; the short and slender phalanges of the other toes are also noticeable, their use being not prehensile, but to contribute to the elasticity of this part of the foot j^lastly, the great projection of the heel-bone backwards, not absolutely, but in proportion to the length of the foot, gives remarkable leverage to the muscles of the calf, N 2