354 THE MUSCLES. distinguished from the deltoid by a more strongly pronounced intermuscular marking, running downwards and outwards from the small, triangular, sub- clavicular or coracoid depression. Its lower border is the chief, but not the sole, determining cause of the transverse subpectoral fold. The deltoid surface-form, figs. 163-165, might seem to require no special description, its anatomical details being very familiar, and so com- pletely revealed through the integument. It rounds off the shoulder, and, as it were, cements the upper limb to the trunk. Its thin, nearly straight, and tightly bound down, posterior border, forms, at first, only a slightly elevated ridge, but becomes much thicker and more prominent, where it crosses behind the posterior axillary muscles and passes onwards to the arm ; its anterior border, situated next to the greater pectoral, is thicker, and gently curved. The peculiarities of the deltoid prominence are determined not merely by the relative thickness of that muscle at different parts, but by the presence of the head of the humerus beneath it; for, since the position of that bone is somewhat in advance of the point of the acromion, the deltoid form is com- paratively flat behind, but much fuller and more convex in front of the shoulder, the extreme lateral projection of which is due to the middle portion of the muscle being pushed outwards by the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The highly characteristicdiflference between the front and back of the shoulder, just noticed, must not be overlooked. The numerous processes of the deltoid produce precisely corresponding forms, radiating from the tip of the acromion, the borders of the spinous process of the scapula, and the outer third of the collar bone ; they widen out, as they approach the middle of the muscle, and then, again, become narrow and pointed, as they gather down upon the ridge formed by its tendon of insertion, which tapers so finely down, that it reaches lower on the arm than is often represented. The undulating curved surface- form of the deltoid prominence is most pronounced opposite the central bundles, which descend from the acromion, their outline, fig. 164, turning down upon the tendon more abruptly than that of the posterior, or even of the anterior, bundles. The festooned borders of the origin of the muscle, together with the more even lines of insertion of the trapezius, determine the actual surface- forms of the oblique scapular, the acromial, and the clavicular furrows, which are found above the shoulder. The integument of the trunk, rather thicker on the back than in front of the torso, and also more loaded with subjacent fat, except perhaps between the umbilicus and the pubes, everywhere softens the forms of the numerous subjacent muscles, the several boundaries of which rule, indicated by elevated borders, and not by intermuscular markings, as in the limbs. The skin and the superficial fascia, being here, as elsewhere, fastened somewhat more closely to the subcutaneous bony eminences, than to the surrounding proper fascia, the spinal furrow presents little longitudinal dimples, with transverse