THE BONES. 92 so that in size, and in its amount of projection backwards, it greatly exceeds the spinous processes of the vertebrse below and above it; it also affords broader surfaces of attachment, and better and more definite points of leverage, to the numerous muscles here present. The transverse processes, on the other hand, are small, and neither grooved nor bifm-cated ; but they are perforated at their base. Of the articular processes, the two inferior ones resemble those of the cervical vertebrse generally, in their size, flatness, position behind the transverse processes, and their slightly sloping direction backwards. The two superior ones, on the contrary, figs. 37, 38, are remarkably modified. Thus, they are much larger than the inferior articular processes, occupying the greater part of the space between the base of the odontoid process and the roots of the two transverse processes, on which, as well as on the pedicles and body of the vertebra, they may be said to rest. Hence, they are placed, not behind the transverse processes, as usual, but in a line with them, and also further forward and nearer to the median plane. Their articular surfaces are nearly circular, slightly convex and almost horizontal from before backwards, but sloping obliquely downwards and outwards towards the sides. These two large surfaces, right and left, form a very wide base of support, thrown well forward in the spine, for the reception of the two inferior articulating processes of the first vertebra, and thus for the transmission of the superin- cumbent weight of the head, which, above this ])oint, is no longer borne by the vertebral centres. The odontoid process itself receives no weight, but acts merely as a pivot, around which the first vertebra partially rotates. The first cervical vertebra, or atlas, figs. 34, 35, so named because it supports the head, as the hero Atlas supported the earth, is still further modified. It has no longer a thick anterior part or body, but, in its place, a slender anterior arch, which, with the proper posterior arch, forms a strong bony ring, widened out transversely by two large lateral masses, but having its enclosed space larger from before backwards than it is wide from side to side. In front of the anterior arch, is a small prominence standing forward from it, named the anterior tubercle; on its concave posterior surface, is a smooth facet for articulation with the odontoid process of the axis, which projects up into the fore part of the ring of the atlas, fig. 36. The transverse ligament, which crosses beliind that process, is fixed to two small internal tubercles, placed one on each side of the ring, just in front of the middle of the two superior articular processes. Behind that ligament, between it and the proper posterior arch of the vertebra, is the true vertebral foramen, the large, oval space, which contains and protects the spinal cord and its membranes. This separation of the part occupied by the odontoid process of the axis, from that which lodges the spinal cord, renders the partial rotation of the atlas with the skull, around the pivot of the axis, safe, without the risk of pressure on the nervous centres. The spinous process of the atlas is so