258 THE MUSCLES. the adductor longus of the thigh A, the muscular fasciculi radiating from a thick and narrow, to a thin and wide tendon. Numerous muscles have tendons of insertion as long as, or longer than, their fleshy portions, such a^ some of the muscles of the leg and of the forearm, which proceed to the toes or fingers, figs. 134, 173. The biceps muscle of the arm, B, has one very long and slender tendon of origin ; but it also possesses another tendon of origin, and so is named bicipital or two-headed. The length of these two tendons of origin is determined by the fact, that there are overlying muscles, the tendons of which have to play over the biceps, whilst the biceps has to work beneath them; the fleshy part of this muscle is relatively short and fusiform, and consists of delicate and regular fasciculi, springing from the surface of the two tendons of origin, and ending, by an oblique border, on the surface of the tendon of insertion, which, at first rounded, soon becomes flat, and undergoes a half twist, as it penetrates between the radius and the ulna, to reach its point of insertion on the former bone. Again, a muscle may be trioipital or possessed of three heads, like the triceps of the arm T, the separate portions of which, being too large to end on a round and tapering tendon, are gathered on to the under surface and borders of a broad flat tendon of insertion ; the lines of junction of the fleshy with the tendinous portions of this and of other superficial muscles, are more or less curved, and not straight and square, or even linearly oblique, as is usually the case in deep-seated muscles. Again, muscles may have still more multiple origins, as the quadriceps of the thigh, the com- plexus at the back of the neck, C, the multifidus spinse, M, and certain other muscles, which arise from a series of bones, like the vertebrae or ribs. Parts of the complexus muscle furnish an example of the presence of a transverse, tendinous inscription or intersection, and also of a complete intermediate tendon, such as is seen on the inner portion of that muscle, known as the biventer cervicis, or two-bellied muscle ; two other instances occur in the neck, namely, the omo-hyoid and the digastric muscle. The rectus muscle of the abdomen R, furnishes the most striking instance of the existence of tendinous inscriptions along the course of a muscle; they are indications of a segmenta- tion of the soft parts, similar to those met with in the vertebral column and its appendages, the ribs. Under certain circumstances, multiplicity of origin from a series of similar bones such as the ribs, gives rise to a peculiarly complicated arrangement of the muscle itself, and to a serrated form at its edge, as seen in the great serratus muscle situated on the side of the thorax, S'. A flat quad- rangular form, met with in the pronator quadratus of the forearm Q, affords an example of extreme simplicity of shape, in a deep-seated muscle. A com- pound triangular form, with two of the angles rounded off, occurs in the great pectoral muscle P", which also furnishes an illustration of the twisting of a muscle, as it reaches its flat tendon of insertion. Another modified triangidar form is seen in the well-known deltoid or delta-shaped muscle of the shoulder D; this, moreover, exhibits a remarkable internal structure, which serves