49 THE BONES OF THE LEG. to form a transverse roughened depression for the attachment of the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint, and at the same time to permit of a more complete flexion of the foot upon the leg. Below this depression, is a sharp curved ridge, -which forms the margin of the inferior articular surface of the tibia ; it is prolonged downwards on each side, to embrace the astragalus, and presents a median elevation corresponding with a depression in the neck of that bone. The posterior surface is broad, and marked by a shallow groove, passing downwards and slightly inwards, for the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe. This surface ends below in a sharp wavy border, which forms the hinder margin of the inferior articular surface of the bone ; it is adapted to the form of the back of the astragalus, and, in man, descends lower down than the anterior border. The lower end of the tibia is prolonged downwards, on its inner side, for more than half an inch below the articular surface, to form the broad, square process, named the internal malleolus or inner anklebone (figs. 13, 14, 16). This process is wider from before backwards, than it is thick from within out- wards; its inner surface, slightly convex, but strongly inclined from above downwards and inwards, is almost wholly subcutaneous, and is continuous with the inner subcutaneous surface of the shaft of the bone; its outer surface, smooth and slightly concave, and directed a little forwards and downwards, as well as inwards, towards the astragalus, is articular, and is contiguous with the inner articular facet of that bone, in the ankle joint; its anterior border is nearly vertical, and rough for the attachment of the annular and the inter- nal lateral ligament; whilst its posterior border is curved forwards, owing to the deep, oblique groove, which passes downwards and inwards on its hinder surface, for the tendons of the long flexor of the toes and the tibialis posticus. The apex of the subcutaneous surface of the inner malleolus, therefore, appears to be directed a little forwards and downwards; it is bevelled off in front, to provide a surface of attachment for the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. The inner malleolus, in the skeleton-foot, is more than two inches from the ground. The lower end of the tibia, which rests on the astragalus, presents a somewhat quadrangular and nearly horizontal articular surface, wider transversely than from before backwards, but, like the corresponding- surface on that bone, considerably wider in front than behind. It is concave from before backwards, but uneven from side to side, being divided by a slight antero-posterior ridge into two parts, of which the inner one is the narrower, and somewhat the deeper. The entire surface is adapted to fit accurately on to the trochlea of the astragalus, to which it transmits tlie weight of the body. As already stated, this articular smface is continuous with that on the adjacent smface of the internal malleolus, which itself articidates with the inner side of the astragalus. The upper extremity or head of the tibia is enlarged in all directions, chiefly transversely and especially behind, so as to form a broad and horizontal E