THE BONES OF THE FOOT. 45 with the internal sesamoid bone beneath ; and, finally, the much smaller projection opposite the last joint of the great toe. On the dorsum of the foot, the bones are entirely concealed, as far forward as the head of the astragalus, by ligaments, tendons, and loose skin ; but from that part, the form of this surface, which slants downwards, forwards, and outwards, is chiefly dependent on the convex surfaces of most of the tarsal, and of all the metatarsal bones; the highest part of the head of the astragalus, with the adjacent parts of the scaphoid, the middle cuneiform bone, and the base of the second metatarsal bone, constitute the highest and most prominent longitudinal ridge of the instep, from which the surface inclines more rapidly inwards, but more gradually outwards. The smooth dorsal surfaces of the metatarsal bones, covered partly by the flat extensor tendons, correspond, either with linear depressions or prominences, according as the muscles between those bones are in action or at rest. The dorsal surface of the first metatarsal bone is, however, always prominent, and precisely determines the form of this part of the foot. The heads of the metatarsal bones sinking in beneath the tendons and other soft parts which pass across to the toes, form a curved depression, which passes obliquely, outwards and backwards. Of the interphalangeal joints of the toes,"the first only are prominent. In a well-formed human foot, considerable differences as regards the relative length of the first and second toes, are met with in different individuals. As a rule, the second toe is slightly longer than the great toe, and, therefore, the longest of all. The length of the three outer toes rapidly declines to the fifth, the tip of which corresponds nearly with the level of the interphalangeal joint of the great toe, and of the first phalangeal joint of the second toe. But, in a number of instances, the great toe is longer than the second, and so becomes the longest toe ; and, moreover, in a certain num- ber of instances, these two toes are of equal length. Numerous observations seem to me to indicate that the condition in which the great toe is the longest, occurs more frequently in persons of tall stature or slender frame, whilst shorter and more stoutly built individuals usually have the great toe shorter than the second. The Grreeks evidently adopted this latter form as the typical one; it certainly gives a fuller contour to the end of the foot, and imparts a character of strength to it. On the contrary, the relative elonga- tion of the great toe, although it may produce a certain elegance of form, suggests the idea of feebleness, from the unsupported position of the great toe itself. The relatively greater separation between the heads of the first and second metatarsal bones, occasions the greater interval between the first and second toes, so characteristic of the human foot. The high instep, or so-called mons pedis, likewise a cliaracteristic beauty of the well-formed humaii foot, is much less marked in the negro races, and almost disappears in the ill-formed flat foot.