386 THE MUSCLES. numerous creases, some of which are more important than the rest, and amongst these are the so-called ' lines of Fate,' the subjects of many of the fancies of cheiromancy, and the basis of the tricks of palmistry. There are four principal palmar lines, two transverse and two longitudinal, so arranged as to form a figure like an Italic capital letter Ji-. These can be completely reconciled with, and explained by, the anatomical construction of the hand. As already shown, the three inner fingers are structurally associated, in con- sequence of their extensor tendons being connected by oblique slips ; and, as a consequence of this, they are also physiologically associated in their actions. If, now, these three fingers be flexed together, a transverse curved crease appears, commencing opposite the interdigital fold between the middle and index fingers, and passing inwards, with its convexity turned towards the centre of the palm, on to the inner border of the hand above the root of the little finger. If, then, the index finger be flexed, a second transverse curved crease is formed, passing from the outer border of the hand above the root of that finger, across the middle of the palm, on to the ball of the little finger, having its convexity turned towards the first crease. Next, if the little finger be adducted, towards the middle of the palm, a nearly straight longi- tudinal crease is produced, commencing in the interval between the balls of the little finger and the thumb, and passing through the middle of the palm, intersecting the second transverse crease, and meeting the first, opposite the root of the middle finger. Lastly, if the thumb be now adducted, a second, but strongly curved, longitudinal crease is formed, coursing round the inner border of the ball of the thumb, with its convexity directed inwards, towards the centre of the palm. As seen on the right palm, the two transverse creases form the two up-strokes, and the two longitudinal creases, the two down- strokes of the Italic J'l; on the left palm, the strokes of the letter are formed in the reverse way. This is a plain scientific explanation of the chief lines of the palm, to which all its subordinate lines more or less conform. They are ruled by actual movements, as these are by the relative mobility of the fingers and the thumb, already explained, p. 379. The transverse lines are due to creases of flexion, the longitudinal ones, to creases of adduction. The creases themselves, it is well to add, are not caused, in the individual, by the use of the parts, but are previously developed, as the hand itself is being formed. The short double creases seen at the flexures of the joints of the fingers, less perfectly formed at the root of the index finger, and only single at the root of the little finger, are placed, the first row, about opposite the middle of the first phalanges, the second and third rows, a little behind the corresponding joints. The skin is thinner and smoother at these creases, and often coloured bluish by veins; but, elsewhere, the integument is thicker, and roughened by the ridges peculiar to the palm and to the sole. The pulpy enlargements seen in front of the last phalanges, traversed by curvilinear ridges, if well