189 THE FEMALE SKELETON. of tlie ankles, as well as to a pointing outwards of the whole foot, to which attention has already been drawn. The articular surfaces at each end of the tibia, are slightly modified in the female, to suit the peculiar direction it has to take, and the internal condyle of the femur is, relatively, a little longer in that sex. The shortness of the leg-bones, and still more markedly of the thigh- bones, in the female, the greater separation of the heads of the latter at the hip-joints, the less obtuse angle between the necks and the shafts of these bones, the greater inclination of these shafts downwards to the knees, and the subsequent slight inclination outwards of the tibise at the ankles, make the lower limb, in the female, a less perfect columnar structure for bearing weight, and a less powerful locomotive apparatus, than the lower limb of the man ; but the alternately opposite inclination of its two segments, and the corre- sponding obliquity of the articular planes of the knee and ankle joints, impart to it, in the female, as we have seen to be the case in the foot, a greater degree of play in its outlines, and more variety in its pose. In the female, besides a diminution in size, in all directions, of the bones about the knee-joint, the head of the fibula and the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, are, in particular, smaller and less prominent, whilst the patella is longer and narrower, than in the male, conditions which materially influence the forms, in front of and around the knee, in the former sex. The most numerous and remarkable differences between the skeleton of the male and female, however, are to be found in the pelvis, figs. 69, 70, 71,72. Of the actual measurements of the male and female pelvis, as recorded by anatomists, but few are of interest to the Artist, for they relate chiefly to the dimensions of its internal cavity. The relative proportions of these, however, convey some idea of the differences in this part of the skeleton, as to its width and its depth from behind forwards. Taking average measurements, the ti'ansverse diameter of the inlet at the brim, is, in the male, 4 5 inches, and, in the female, 5'25 inches; whereas, the antero-posterior diameter is, in the male, 4 inches, and, in the female, 4*5 inches. As to the lower apertiu-e of the pelvis, or the outlet, its transverse measurement, between the tuber- osities of the ischia, in the male, is 3*5 inches, and, in the female, 4*75 inches; whilst the antero-posterior measurement from the sub-pubic arch to the coccyx, is, in the male, 3'25 inches, and, in the female, 4-5. Regarded from the front or behind, the female pelvis, figs. 71, 72, is wider, but vertically shorter or more shallow than the male, figs, 69, 70, which is narrow, and long or deep. All its parts are smoother, lighter, and necessarily weaker, in the female ; the ahx) of the iliac bones are thinner, broader, flatter, and more expanded, the crests of tlie ilia are longer but shallower, not rising up so high ; they are also further apart, so that the average extreme width from one crest to another, is greater, though their height is less; the anterior superior spinous processes of the iliac bones, are also further apart; the