67 THE HIP-BONE. wards, from the sides of the sacrum behind, to the middle line in front, where they meet. These two bones, with the sacrum and the coccyx, constitute the pelvis, the innominate bones forming the front and sides of that cavity. On the outer surface of each innominate bone, somewhat below its centre, is the deep circular cup-shaped cavity, named the cccetahulwin, into which the head of the thigh bone is partially received, fig. 27. In infancy and child- hood, the hip-bone is composed of three distinct bony pieces, which surround and meet at the acetabulum, a sort of Y-shaped piece of cartilage intervening between them in the floor of that cavity. In the adult, at about twenty-five years of age, the three pieces coalesce, leaving, however, certain traces of their original independence. The lowest piece, which forms the under, and part of the outer or hinder, border of the acetabulum, is named the ischium; the anterior piece, the smallest of the three, which forms the anterior or internal border of the acetabulum, is called the pubes or os pubis; and the highest piece, the largest of the three, which forms the upper, and part of the hinder, border of the acetabulum, is named the ilium. The ischium forms rather more than |-thsof the socket, the pubes about 4-th, and the ilium rather less than |-ths. From the acetabulum, each of these bones proceeds in the form of a three-sided column, that formed by the ischium passing downwards, that by the pubes forwards, and that by the ilium upwards and backwards. On looking at the outer sm-face of the innominate bone, its plane^is seen to be bent, and otherwise changed, opposite to the acetabulum ; for, whilst the acetabulum itself is directed downwards, outwards, and a little forwards, the outer surfaces of the ischium and pubes, situated below and in front, are turned downwards and forwards, whilst the outer surface of the ilium, situated above and behind, is turned backwards and outwards. This change of direction between the parts of the bone below and above the acetabulum, somewhat resembles that between the two blades of a screw propeller, fig. 27 ; but it is complicated by a bend across the acetabulum, in the centre, which gives a general convexity to the outer surface of the entire hip-bone. Its inner concave surface is turned towards the pelvic cavity. The acetabulum, or cotyloid cavity, fig. 27 {acetabulum, a vinegar cup ; KOTvKr}, a cup), forms so deep a cup, as nearly to equal half of a spheroidal cavity, whilst, as we have seen, the head of the femur, on which it rests, forms more than half of a solid spheroid ; so that the two together constitute the most perfect ball-and-socket joint in the body. It is situated above, and slightly in front of, the tuberosity of the ischium. The nm or border of the aceta- bulum, which is sharp, and of unequal prominence at different parts, is in- complete or interrupted for rather more than half an inch, between its anterior and its inferior borders, namely, opposite to the place of junction of its ischiatic and pubic portions : this interrupted part is named the cotyloid notch, or notch of the acetabidum, fig. 27. In the natural position of the