37 THE BONES OF THE FOOT. on its inner side, with the third metatarsal and the external cuneiform bones, and on its outer side, with the fifth metatarsal bone. The fifth metatarsal bone itself also articulates behind with the cuboid, by a triangular surface, which is broader from side to side than from above downwards, contrary to the condition characteristic of all the other metatarsal bones ; moreover, this articular surface is slightly concave from above downwards, and very slightly convex from side to side. The line of junction of the three outer metatarsal bones with the tarsus, runs obliquely outwards and backwards across the foot, the part corresponding with the fifth bone being the most oblique, and appearing on the outer border of the foot, in front of the cuboid bone. The articular surfaces of the three outer metatarsal bones, as viewed from above, are not at right angles with the shafts, but are oblique, so that the bones are directed forwards, sometimes even slightly inwards, never in the same direction as the external cuneiform and cuboid bones, which look forwards and outwards. All five metatarsal bones necessarily slant more or less downwards and forwards, as they extend from the tarsus towards the ground. But these bones do not all incline at the same angle; the second, which is connected with the middle cuneiform bone at the highest part of the tarsus, inclines the most; the first would incline more, were it not for the sesamoid bones beneath it; the third slants nearly as much as the second, the fourth still less, whilst the fifth approaches nearly to a horizontal line. This is due to the gradual lowering of the transverse tarsal arch of the foot, from the second cuneiform bone outwards to the cuboid bone. The backward inclination of the planes of the articular surfaces at the bases of the metatarsal bones, diminishes as the bones themselves become less inclined. The lengths of the five metatarsal bones are so adjusted that their anterior extremities or heads, which correspond with the balls of the respec- tive toes, form a curved line on the sole of the foot, which, commencing at the head of the first metatarsal bone, or ball of the great toe, may be traced, passing abruptly forward, to the head of the second metatarsal bone, or ball of the second toe, and then, gradually backward, through the heads of the third, fourth and fifth bones, or the balls of the corresponding toes ; this line may be called the anterior metatarsal curve. The Tarsal Bones.—Of the three cuneiform bones, figs. 7 to 9, the first, or inner one, less regularly wedge-shaped than the other two, is the longest and the largest. The second, or middle one, is the shortest and the smallest; it is, indeed, the smallest of the tarsal bones. In front, they are articulated respectively, with the first, second, and third metatarsal bones ; their articular surfaces are much elongated from above downwards, that for the first bone being semilunar, whilst the others are triangular in outline. Behind, they LEEDS 5cVjl.