THE INFLUENCE OF THE MUSCLES ON FOEM. 263 but it is gently, though unequally, convex at both ends, where these spring from, or bend down upon the tendons, more markedly so at its lower end. The posterior border of the muscle determines the agreeable curves of an intermuscular marking, seen on the surface of the arm behind it, indicated in the sketch, by the series of cross lines over the anterior border of the humerus. The long axis of the muscle and its tendons, forms with that of the shaft of the humerus, a very small angle. Lastly, the two upper tendons are concealed beneath the deltoid and the pectoral muscles ; whilst the lower tendon sinks into the fold of the elbow, being drawn down with the radius, to which it is fixed, and is thus acted upon and straightened by gravity. In fig. 122, the forearm being fully flexed, but now pronated, the biceps is in a state of strong, but not of complete contraction. Its fleshy portion is much shortened and widened ; its anterior contour, and with this, that of the arm, is, accordingly, also shorter and more convex, but it still retains traces of flatness opposite its middle, and shows an increasingly convex outline above, but especially below. Its posterior contour, with its coincident intermuscular surface marking, has also become more convex, and, as shown by the cross lines, has descended in the arm, and no longer follows the anterior border of the humerus. The two upper tendons, unchanged in length, are still concealed by the deltoid and pectoral muscles; the lower one, also, not lengthened, although it is partly held down, owing to the pronation of the forearm, is drawn up by the muscle, which thus flexes the elbow joint. Lastly, the common axis of the muscle and its tendons, is now changed with the shifting forwards of the position of its point of attachment to the radius, so that it forms a more open angle with that of the shaft of the humerus. In fig. 123, the forearm being now not only fully flexed, but supinated, the muscle is completely contracted, so far, at least, as the bones will practically permit. Its length is now extraordinarily diminished, that is to about one-half of what it was in the relaxed condition ; whilst it is proportionately widened in the middle to about double its original width. Its anterior contour, now markedly convex, and protuberant, still enables the eye to trace the peculiarities of its middle and terminal portions, due to the structural arrangements of its fasciculi, the abruptness of its upper and lower convexities being remarkable and characteristic. Its posterior contour is likewise much more convex, and determines a more strongly curved inter- muscular marking on the surface, now drawn higher up, and overlapping the shaft of the humerus. The line of greatest transverse width of the contracted muscle, corresponds with the part in which the greatest number of fasciculi is present. The two upper tendons, inextensible and not stretched, are still concealed by the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; but the tendon of insertion, equally unstretched, is now, owing to the radius being in the position of supination, withdrawn from the depression in front of the elbow, and forms a ridge, here partly concealed from view by a fold, caused by the long supinator muscle. Lastly, the direction of <the axis of the entire biceps is now again