« 326 THE MUSCLES. surface below, but the tendon of the sacro-lumbalis terminates mucb sooner than that of the longissimus dorsi; both end by oblique borders running upwards and inwards. Common origin: inner lip of the hinder fourth of the crest of the ilium, hinder border of the ilium and part of the back of the sacrum, the sacral, lumbar, and lower two or three dorsal spinous processes, and lumbar fascia, with which it is at first inseparably connected the sacro-lumbalis, angles of the lower six or seven ribs, by separate flat tendons, connected at their edges the longissimus dorsi, lower nine or ten ribs between their angles and tubercles, and all the dorsal transverse processes, by tendinous and fleshy slips. Both parts of the erector spinse are continued upwards by numerous processes through the back, and are also prolonged into the neck. The sacro-lumbalis is continued in the back by the musculus accessorius, which proceeds from the angles of the lower six ribs, to the angles of the upper six ribs; it is prolonged, into the neck, by the cervicalis ascendens, which proceeds from the angles of the upper four or five ribs, to the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical transverse processes. The longissimus dorsi is con- tinued in the back, and prolonged into the neck, by the transversalis colli, which proceeds from the upper five or six dorsal transverse processes, to the posterior tubercles of the cervical transverse processes, from the sixth to the second; and it is further pro- longed up to the skull, by the trachelo- mastoid, figs. 150, 151, [rpdxn^os, the neck), which proceeds from the same dorsal Fig. 151.—The Longitudinal Dorsal ' ^ Group in the Neck. transverse processes, and from the lower three or four cervical articular processes, to the back of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, under cover of the splenius and the sterno-mastoid muscles. Complexus, fig. 151, Deep; broad below, narrower above, marked by a transverse tendinous intersection, its inner portion being distinct, and named biventer cervicis, '^^"j from its having two fleshy bellies and an inter- mediate tendon ; an associate of the erector spinse, upwards and inwards, in the vertebral groove of the back and neck. Upper six dorsal and seventh cervical transverse processes, and three cervical articular processes higher up iimer part of the under surface of the occipital bone, between the two curved lines