78 THE BONES. and the lower or true pelvis, the ilio-pectineal line, and the curved anterior borders of the lateral masses of the sacrum, together with the promontory of that bone, forming the limits between them, and constituting the hrim of the true pelvis. The false pelvis, more capacious tlian the true pelvis, ac- cordingly consists almost entirely of the widely spread and relatively broad wings of the two ilia ; it has no bony walls in front. The bony margin of the pelvis, between the anterior superior spinous processes, constitutes the abdo- miuo-pelvle arch. The true peh'is is composed of the lower parts of the ilia, the two ischia, the two puliic bones, the sacrum, except a small part above, and the coccyx. The upper border or inlet of the true pelvis, fig. 24, corre- sponding with the crest and spine of the pubes, the ilio-pectineal line, and the prominent anterior border of the base and promontory of the sacrum, is de- scribed as somewhat heart-shaped ; it is wider across, than it is long from before backwards. The lower border or outlet, fig. 25, is irregular, and deeply notched in front, beneath the pubic arch, and on each side, by the sacro-sciatic notches found between the tuberosities of the ischia, and the sacrum and coccyx; its antero-posterior, exceeds its transverse diameter. When a pelvis is placed upon a table, it rests on the tuberosities of the two ischia, and on the coccyx, and the plane of the inlet of the true pelvis is nearly horizontal. From this fact, noted in studying the pelvis sepa- rately, the very oblique position of this part of the skeleton in the body, is sometimes overlooked. Owing to the many variations in the size and position of the expanded wings of the ilia, it is difficult to estimate accurately the de- gree of obliquity of the entire pelvis. The position of the plane of the inlet is more easily determined, being parallel with a line extending from the top of the symphysis pubis, to the base of the sacrum. This plane, on an average, is placed at an angle of about 62° or 63° from the horizon, in the male, in the standing position. Surface-forms dependent on the Bones of the Pelvis. By far the greater part of the outer siu-face of the pelvis, is so thickly clad with muscles, fasciae, and subcutaneous adipose tissue, that it, only in a general and remote way, influences the surface-forms ; but, at certain points, the bony framework does approach the surface, and, considered from an artistic point of view, these points are of the very first importance as safe guides to the eye, in determining the form of so large an area of the body. In front, the position of the upper border of the symphysis pubis may be fixed, by remembering that it is practically on a level with the upper part of the greater trochanter of the femur. The onlj' two bony eminences coming close up to the skin, on this aspect of the pelvis, are the small strictly subcutaneous portions of .the anterior superior spinous processes of the innominate bones, which indicate the anterior ends of the iliac crests : these processes sometimes