THE MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 275 THE THIGH. Sartorius, 33. Gracilis, 'H. Semi-membranosus, 35. Semi-tendinosus, 36. Biceps cruris, 37a, 'Sib. Quadratus femoris, 38. Obturator externus, 39. Gemellus inferior, 40. Obturator internus, 41. Gemellus superior, 42. Pyriformis, 43. Gluteus minimus, 44. „ medius, 45. „ maximus, 46. The Muscles of the Foot. The muscles of the foot are partly situated in the sole, and partly on the dorsal surface ; in the former situation, they are numerous and arranged in layers, but in the latter, there is only one muscle, although parts of others are seen between the metatarsal bones, and on the borders of the foot. All the muscles of the foot act upon the toes, but in such different ways, that they may be grouped, according as they abduct or spread the toes, adduct or draw them together, Jlex, or extend them. The foot is also traversed by many long tendons, belonging to muscles situated in the leg; some of these are placed in the sole, some on the sides and dorsum of the foot, whilst one descends only as far as the back of the heel. The Abductor and Adductor Group, fig. 125.—This includes, as abductors, the dorsal interosseous muscles, and the proper abductors of the little and great toes. The adductors consist of the plantar interossei, the adductor of the great toe, and the transverse muscle of the foot. Interossei dorsales pedis, figs. 125, 130, ' Deep; four in number, penniform ; along the interosseous spaces. Sides of the metatarsal bones, by two heads bases of the first phalanges, and expanded tendons of the long- extensor of the toes. The first of the dorsal interosseous muscles, is inserted into the inner side of the first phalanx of the second toe ; the second, third, and fourth, into the outer sides of the phalanges of the corresponding toes. They are abdu<!!l,ors from an imaginary line passing through the axis of the second, usually the longest toe ; the first muscle draws that toe from such a line, inwards or towards the great toe ; the second draws it outwards from that line, and the third and fourth abduct the corresponding toes. Interossei plantares pedis, figs. 125, 130,^ Deep; three in number, fusiform, and semi-penniform ; along the interosseous spaces. Under and inner surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones inner sides of the T 2 Vastus externiTs, 23. ,, inlernus, 24. Crureus, 24rt. Subcrureus. Eectus femoris, 25. Adductor magnus, 26. ,, longus, 27. „ brevis, 28. Pectineus, 29. Psoas magnus, 30. „ parvus, liiacus, 31. Tensor vagina femoris, 3 2. {Fascia lata), 32'.