363 THE MUSCLES OF THE FORE-AEM. side of the radius, by a short broad flat tendon, which wraps round that bone. This muscle pronates the hand, but it also assists in flexing the elbow. Flexor carpi radialis, figs. 171, 174, Superficial, except at its insertion ; its fleshy portion, broad and fusiform above, penniform below, its fasciculi ending at the middle of the fore-arm, on the sides of a strong, flat tendon, which tapers and then becomes rounded; obliquely downwards and outwards, the tendon of insertion passing through the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and along a groove in the trapezium, converted by fibrous bands into a channel. Inner condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon, fascia of the fore-arm, and adjacent intermuscular septa front of the base of the metacarpal bone of the forefinger. This muscle not only flexes the wrist joint, but, from its oblique direction, it also assists some- what in pronating the hand; it likewise aids in bending the elbow joint. Palmaris longus, figs. 174, 181, 182, Superficial throughout; small, slender, fusiform, quickly ending at the middle of the fore-arm, in a long, thin, flat, deUcate tendon ; obliquely downwards, from the inner side of the fore-arm to the front of the palm, passing over the annular ligament of the wrist. Inner condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon, fascia of the fore-arm, and adjacent intermuscular septa palmar fascia, opposite the middle of the wrist, fig. 182. This small muscle is the homologue of the plantaris in the leg. It is subject to much variation; its fleshy part may be very long, or central between two tendons, or confined to the lower part of the muscle; it may be double ; it frequently sends tendinous slips to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and sometimes also to the ball of the little finger. It tightens the palmar fascia, and assists in flexing the wrist, and even the elbow. Flexor carpi ulnaris, figs. 171, 174, 177, 185, Superficial through- out ; the fleshy part is long, thick and somewhat flattened, the tendon of insertion appears on the anterior edge of the lower half of the muscle, and receives fleshy fasciculi as low down as the wrist; longitudinal, along the inner border of the fore-arm, being the innermost of the superficial flexor group, and bounding the ulnar furrow, situated along the posterior border of that bone, fig. 177. Inner condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon, inner side of the olecranon, and upper two thirds of the posterior border of the ulna, and an aponeurosis common to it and to the flexor digitorum profundus the pisiform bone, beyond which, tendinous slips pass to the annular ligament, the palmar fascia, the muscles of the ball of the little finger, and the front of the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. This muscle, besides flexing the wrist, adducts or draws the hand inwards ; it may also aid in flexing the elbow. Flexor digitorum sublimis, figs. 172, 174, 181, ^® Deep, concealed in the fore-arm, except between the tendons of the two flexors of the wrist and