429 CONCLUSION. blue rays of the purple-coloured venous blood, appear as shadowy, bluish- tinted, wandering lines, more or less evident, in proportion to the thinness and delicacy of the skin which covers them. The influence of the hair sacs, where these are present, on the colour of the skin, is very obvious, in the grey tones which they impart to it. The bloom produced by the downy covering of the cheeks of youth, is familiar to all; the rich effect of the hair, with its varieties of tint and luminosity, as seen by direct or by transmitted light, requires no description; and the different hues of the iris, from blue or grey, to brown and almost black, need only to be mentioned. But, in the human figure especially, it is by and from the integument itself, that Light is so broken, decomposed, and reflected as Colour, as to give peculiar lustre to the Beauty dependent on its Form. Conclusion. It has been shown, in the preceding pages, how the forms of the Bones and Muscles, whether still or in action, influence those, both general and local, of the entire body. These hard and soft elements of the human frame have been described in detail, and their effects on the shape and ornamentation of its parts, have been, in many and various ways, illustrated and explained. Nothing, however, has been advanced, to justify a hyper-anatomical display, which constitutes the abuse of Anatomy, and has frequently brought discredit on its employment in Art. A defiance of its truths is, however, of much more frequent occurrence. The diligent Anatomist can demonstrate the relations between Eeality and Beauty ; but, on the Sculptor and Painter, devolves the higher task of detecting their joint significance, and realising their combination in the creations of Art. This goal may be attained by the rough, but open, road of individual experience, or, after groping through the fog of ignorance, or escaping from the mazes of error; or it may be reached, almost unconsciously, by the possessor of Nature's ra7'est gifts. But in this, as in all other callings, to the few, as well as to the many, the path of Ejiowledge is the shortest and clearest avenue by which such a goal can be approached.