THE BONES. 132 becomes visible at the back of the fore-arm; but when the hand is supine, and the radius rotated forwards and outwards, the tuberosity is turned towards the anterior aspect of the fore-arm. From this tubercle, opposite which the radius approaches the ulna very closely, the shaft curves boldly outwards, away from the ulna, as low as the middle of tlie fore-arm, wlien it again curves inwards, to meet that bone just above the wrist, the radius here becoming larger, and especially wider at its lower end, where it has to support the hand. At its upper part, the shaft of the radius is nearly cylindrical, but as it gradually widens, it becomes, like the ulna, slightly excavated in front and behind, remaining well rounded on its outer side ; hence, it is, like the ulna, somewhat prismatic, or three-sided. Like the ulna, too, its anterior and 'posterior hollowed surfaces meet at a sharp, undulating edge, named the inner border, which is well marked only along the middle portion of the shaft; it presents a short upper, and a longer lower incurvation, and has the inter- osseous membrane attached to it. Traced upwards, this edge is lost before reaching the tuberosity; below, it bifurcates into two slight ridges, which embrace a small articular cavity on the inner side of the lovver end of the radius, into which the side of the head of the ulna is received. On the anterior surface of the radius, fig. 53, commencing below the bicipital tuberosity, is the oblique line of the radius, which passes obliquely downwards to the outer surface of the bone, and forms the upper limit of the hollowed anterior surface. Just above this line, is the elongated surface of insertion of the supinator brevis muscle, which is situated partly on the shaft, and partly on the neck of the bone, but also passes round to the back of the bone. From the oblique line itself, a portion of the flexor sublimis digitorum muscle arises; below it, the excavated surface of the bone gives origin to the powerful long flexor muscle of the thumb; below this, where the bone becomes much widened, is the broad surface of insertion of the pronator quadratus. Upon the outer surface of the middle of the shaft, and reaching round to the back of the bone, is found an elongated rough impression for the attachment of the pronator radii teres; above this, along the back of the bone, is the posterior surface of attachment for the supinator brevis ; below it, on the somewhat excavated posterior surface of the bone, are the origins of two of the extensor muscles of the thumb, namely, the extensor ossis metacarpi and the extensor primi internodii poUicis. The lower third of the back of the radius, becoming broad and convex, is free from muscular attachments, and so is its rounded outer surface; nevertheless, the bone is here covered by muscles, or crossed by tendons, excepting at a small lozenge-shaped portion of the outer surface, quite at the lower end of the bone, just above the point of the styloid process. This styloid process, figs. 54, 56, conical in shape, is both broader and longer, though less prominent than that of the ulna : it is situated just above the outer side of the wrist, a little behind the root of the thumb,