THE BONES OF THE HAND. 149 two. "WTiilst, therefore, the middle point of the foot corresponds with the anterior border of the tarsus, the middle of the hand is very nearly as far forwards as the lower end of the metacarpus. Surface-forms dependent on the Bones of the Hand. The outer border of the carpus is short, and sunk in between the styloid process of the radius and the base of the first metacarpal bone, at the root of the thumb, and is bridged over by the straightened tendons of the extensors of the thumb. The inner border is somewhat prominent, and more nearly subcutaneous, the projecting imciform bone being especially so. The back of the carpus is covered by the numerous extensor tendons, but its slight general convexity determines that of the entire wrist. Traced from side to side, the most prominent part of the wrist is not along the middle line, but nearer to the radial border, in a line with the prominences produced by the scaphoid, trapezoid, and second metacarpal bones, so that tlie curve of the convexity falls suddenly towards the root of the thumb, but gently towards the root of the little finger. Followed from above downwards, the posterior bend of the wrist is rounded off, by the intervention of the transverse carpal articu- lation between the first and second rows of the carpal bones. In front, the wrist presents two subcutaneous eminences, one larger and flatter, due to the scaphoid tuberosity and the prominent oblique ridge of the trapezium, just above the root of the thumb, and, the other smaller but more prominent, caused by the pisiform bone, which may be named the pisiform eminence. The other bones, including even the trapezoid, the os magnum, and the large unciform process, are covered and thoroughly concealed, by the annular ligament, beneath which the flexor tendons pass, and also by the origins of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. If the hand be placed down- wards, and flat on a table, with the forearm nearly vertical, the resemblance of the several parts to the corresponding ones of the foot, will become evident. On then looking at the radial border of the wrist, owing to the small size of its component bones, to the overlapping of the radius on the one hand, and of the ball of the thumb on the other, as well as to the shortness of the thumb, as compared with the great toe, the likeness is obscured; but on looking at the ulnar border, it will be at once perceived that the form pro- duced by the pisiform eminence, situated close to the root of the little finger, may be regarded as the heel of the hand. It constitutes a remarkably fixed point, in spite of all possible changes in the position of the hand itself; it is, of course, smaller and more pointed behind, than is the heel in the foot, but the palm of the hand spreads out from it, just as the sole does from the heel, the forms due to the thumb being quite independent. Moreover, let the hand be moved in any direction, the pisiform eminence remains always a