THE JOINTS OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 243 freedom of circumduction at its base, and the little finger comes next. At the corresponding metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb, flexion to a right angle is quite impossible, and there is little or no circumduction, the surfaces of the joint being unusually broad ; but this movement is much more extensive at the base of its metacarpal bone, than it is at the root of the fore- finger. The Phalangeal Joints.—These miniature hinge joints, two in each finger, fig. 113, but only one in the thumb, figs. 114, 115, have similar ligaments to those of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints ; but the lateral ligaments, attached to the well-marked tubercles on the sides of the bones, are relatively stronger, and more closely fitted to the bones. The glenoid ligaments, fixed more firmly to the distal or moving phalanx than to the proximal one, on which the other moves, deepen the shallow socket on the distal phalanx; but they are less developed than at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. The expanded extensor tendon supplies the place of a proper dorsal ligament. All the ligaments are smaller in the last phalangeal articulations. Movements.—The free movements at the phalangeal joints, are those of flexion and extension only ; hence the movements of the segments of the fingers and thumb are very precise ; whilst the spreading out and lateral play of the fingers are provided for at their base. The extreme amount of flexion at the first inter-phalangeal joints, which bend to an acute angle, renders the holding power of the hand much more secure; at the last joints, in both the fingers and thumb, flexion is limited to a right angle. Over-extension is possible at the last joints, if these are forced. A certain lateral obliquity of the articular surfaces, in the case of the fore and little fingers, causes them to lean or curve slightly towards the middle of the hand, which thus acquires a more tapering form. The Joints of the Head and Face. The Sutures.—The different sutures found in the cranium and face, have been described with the bones, p. 171. The Joints of the Lower Jaw.—The temporo-maxiUary articu' lotions, right and left, are of peculiar and complex form, each combining the characters of gliding, modified ball-and-socket, and hinge joints. The capsule of each joint, attached, above, around the articular portion of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, and, below, around the condyle of the lower jaw, is thin, loose, wider above than below, and thickest at the back of the joint. A short, thin, narrow band, the external lateral ligament, passes from the zygoma and the tubercle at its root, downwards and back- R 2