426 THE MUSCLES. workmanship, is banished from the human frame ; and the opposed quantities and lines on the different aspects or sides of the separate limbs, constitute an undoubted source of variety and beauty in those parts. A further condition of variation in the general and local muscular forms of the two sides of the body, is seen in their constant differences, as to attitude and action. Thus, the trunk and limbs, though sometimes symmetrically posed, and in an equal state as to action, are more frequently not so, the trunk being bent, inclined, or rotated, and the limbs in different, and, there- fore, in asymmetrical attitudes and actions. One limb may be in one position, and the opposite limb in another ; one may be in action, and the other at comparative rest. Opposite muscles in the same limb may be at work, or idle; sometimes the extensors, sometimes the flexors may be employed, their antagonists being at rest; or all the muscles of a part may be simultaneously contracted, to fix its joints, or form a basis of support foi- more distant movements. The performance of single or associated, simple or co-ordinate, principal or subordinate actions, necessarily introduces different local, or more or less general, changes of form as well as of position. If we stretch out a hand to welcome a friend, or raise the arm to parry a blow, or to deliver a thrust, the feet will remain stationary, or one foot will advance, or one retire ; but, in each case, nearly every muscle in the body is called more or less energetically into play, and the limbs are asymmetrically disposed. There is, moreover, a fundamental opposition between the ordinary move- ments of the upper limbs, which are free, and those of the lower limbs, which are forced. Thus in quiet attitudes, the lower limbs are usually more or less everted, whilst the upper ones are turned in; the knee is turned forwards and outwards, the elbow backwards and outwards; the prominence of the calf is backwards and inwards, that of the front of the fore-arm forwards and inwards ; the foot is turned out and at right angles, or nearly so with the leg, the hand is turned in, and nearly in a line with the fore-arm; the dorsum of the foot is directed upwards, the back of the hand outwards. In all these positions, in which the balance of the muscular forces is in harmony with the character of the articular surfaces of the joints, more or less asymmetry of action and form prevails ; and, indeed, the instances of perfect symmetry of action in the limbs, are quite exceptional. But, however different may be the position, action, and form of the corresponding muscles on the two sides of the body, or in the opposite limbs, the masses on the two sides remain unchanged in quantity or bulk. Under all circumstances, the two halves of the body occupy practically the same space, and retain their equality as to their cubical contents. This is due to the non-compressibility of the muscular substance on contracting. Were it not so, every unilateral action in an aquatic animal, or in a bird of flight, would alter most inconveniently the specific gravity of the side in action.