379 THE MUSCLES OF THE HAND. of the third and second metacarpal bones. Crossing over these very obliquely, in a separate narrow compartment of the annular ligament, is the tendon of the extensor of the last 'phalanx of the thumb, and, after a decided interval, the shorter tendon of the extensor of the first phalanx of the thumb, and, with it, the still shorter tendon of the extensor of the metacarpal hone of the thumb, which, accordingly, is endowed with a remarkable facility of ex- tension and abduction. The arrangements of the extensor tendons, determine to a great degree, the natural and easy grouping of the fingers, especially in the various attitudes of extension, assumed in free motions of the hand. The five digits fall into three groups, one, composed of the three inner associated fingers, a second, including only the index finger, and a third, formed by the thumb. In extending the fingers, they naturally open away from each other, and usually in the above-named groups ; if it be intended to point the way, to indicate an object, or to impress a statement, the index finger is alone ex- tended, and somewhat adducted, whilst the three associated fingers are flexed, Fig. 185.—Inner Border of Wrist and Hand. with or without the thumb. If special signs or gestures are to be made, the fingers may be opened or divided, and pointed arbitrarily, as was done by the patriots of the Four Cantons, and, as is now resorted to, in the finger- language of the Italians. The fascia of the upper limb.—Continuous with the fascia covering the deltoid muscle, and with that which closes in the axilla, the fascia of the arm is somewhat thicker on the outer than on the inner side; it gives off the two strong intermuscular septa, by which it is attached to the condyles and epi-condyloid ridges of the humerus ; and also a finer membranous layer between the brachialis anticus and the biceps. It passes over the hollow in front of the elbow, uniting its borders, and keeping the tendon of the biceps in its place. In the fore-arm, the fascia is very strong and aponeurotic below the condyles of the humerus, and furnishes important surfaces of attachment to the superficial flexor and pronator group of muscles in front, and to the common extensor group behind; it also gives off numerous intermuscular septa, and a layer of membrane passing across between the superficial and the deep