25 THE SKELETON. and collar-bone; in the crest of the ilium, and the spinous process of the scapula. In the living body, the bones have a pinkish-white colour, are always moist, and are provided with blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, being fidl of large and small channels for their passage. They are, besides, covered closely with a vascular fibrous membrane, which should never be dissociated mentally from them, through the vessels of which they are partly nourished, and from which they are chiefly formed. This membrane, named the periosteum, covers every part of a bone, excepting those portions which enter into a joint; it serves to soften or tone down any asperities of the surface. In the interior of the bones there also exists a soft vascular tissue, named the medullary membrane, or endosteum, which in the long bones contains fat, and consti- tutes the medulla or marrow. As to their structure, the bones are composed of an outer dense layer of compact tissue, varying in thickness, and of an inner open or porous tissue, called the cancellated tissue. The cancellated structure presents, on a section, numerous little bars or beams, named trabeculce {trahs, a beam), which coalesce with each other. They are in reality the edges of scattered and perforated lamince, which, by becoming flattened and fused together, give rise to the compact tissue; and even this, when examined closely, is found to be laminated. In some bones, as in the long bones of the limbs, where great strength is needed, the outer compact layer is very thick, especially in the middle of the bones ; but towards the ends of these bones, where they expand to form the articular extremities, this layer becomes thinner, and the interior of the bone is filled with cancellated tissue. This latter, on the other hand, gradually becomes more open towards the shaft of the bone, when it disap- pears, leaving an actual cavity, the medullary cavity, occupied by the marrow. This cylinder-like construction of the long bones, adds virtually to their strength, both as regards the support of perpendicular weight, and the resist- ance to lateral force or strain. This statement, it is obvious, refers to the total amount of bone substance; for, as is well known, an equal quantity of any solid material, arranged in a hollov/ cylindrical form of a given length, is stronger than the same quantity disposed in a solid form, of equal length. The quills of a bird are often quoted as admirable examples of this fact; and the hollow expanded cylindrical bones of the bird's wing, with their thin compact walls, filled with air, afford another illustration of it. In the broad bones, the short bones, and the irregular bones, the outer compact layer is relatively thin, the bulk of the bone being made up of cancellated tissue, without a distinct medullary cavity. In those cases, as well as at the ends of the long bones, the osseous tissue is spread out, in order to give broader surfaces of contact and support, and to resist weight, rather than to withstand a cross strain from muscular action. It is remarkable tliat the laminae and