THE BONES. 144 OS magnum ; by a broad concavo-convex surface, with the trapezoid; and by a third oblique facet directed towards the root of tlie thumb, with a corre- sponding facet on the trapezium. On the inner side of its base, it has a single, or double facet, for articulation with the third metacarpal bone. The outer prominence on its dorsum, the one nearer to the thumb, affords insertion to the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior ; on its palmar aspect, is a broad, rough surface for the attachment of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. The first metacarpal bone, figs. 58, 59, 60, belonging to the thumb, is distinguished from the rest, not only by its being the shortest, broadest, and flattest, and by its being divergent in direction, but by the peculiarity of the joint at its base, and by certain specialities of form. Its wide, slightly convex, dorsal surface, fig. 60, is smooth, of nearly equal width throughout, has no bifurcating or oblique line, and is covered only by tendons and by the skin; its 'palmar surface, concave from above downwards, has no prominent median ridge, but is smooth for the attach- ment of the opponens pollicis muscle ; its inner border gives partial origin to the first and largest dorsal interosseous muscles; its outer border is free. The hase of the bone, widened from side to side, presents a deep and perfect saddle-shaped surface, for articulation with the trapezium ; it has its convexity from side to side, and its concavity from behind forwards, the opposite arrange- ment to that on the trapezium ; moreover, the base of the bone presents, both in front and behind, an angular prominence, which helps to render the joint more secure. There is no lateral facet on the base, for articulation with the second metacarpal bone, which it does not even touch. On the outer and hinder part of the base, is a tubercle for the insertion of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Owing to the relatively advanced position of the trapezium, and to the oblique direction inwards of the articulation between it and the first metacarpal bone, the latter is not only placed more forward than the other metacarpals, but has its palmar surface turned inwards, in a direction across the palm. The singularly useful opposability of the thumb depends mainly on these conditions. The head of the first metacarpal, like the rest of the bone, much wider from side to side than it is thick, has its terminal articular surface, unlike that of the other metacarpals, transversely oblong, and much less convex from side to side ; it is, however, as in these, continued on to the palmar aspect, where it is prolonged, by two little con- tinuous grooves, on which the two sesamoid bones, fig. 58, contained in the double tendon of the short flexor muscle of the thumb, are articulated and glide. On each side of the head of the bone, is a small tubercle, for the attachment of the lateral ligaments of the joint. The head of the metacarpal bone of the thumb being so widely separated from that of the second, the two have no transverse ligament between them, as is the case between the other four, and between all the metatarsal bones in the