322 THE MUSCLES. tubercles of the transverse processes of four cervical vertebras basilar process of the occipital bone. Rectus capitis anticus minor, Deep ; flat, quad- rangular ; upwards and inwards. Anterior arch of the atlas basilar process of the occiput, behind the last-named muscle. Rectus capitis lateralis, Deep; short, flat; vertical, like an inter-transverse muscle. Transverse process of the atlas jugular process of the occipital bone. The rectus major flexes the upper part of the neck, as well as the head; both recti may rotate the head slightly; the lateral rectus inclines the head a little to its own side. The Deep Thoracic Group, figs. 147, 150, 152-155. This includes the quadratus lumborum, situated in the loins, but acting on the last rib ; the thoracic muscles proper, or muscles of ordinary respi- ration, namely, the internal and external intercostals, the levatores costarum, the diaphragm, and the triangularis sterni; and, lastly, the scaleni muscles, placed in the neck, but acting on the upper two ribs. Quadratus lumborum, fig. 147, Deep; thick, nearly square, being broader below; vertical, in a strong sheath formed by the lumbar fascia. Inner lip of hinder part of the iliac crest, ilio-lumbar ligament, and transverse processes of the middle three lumbar vertebrae lower border of the last rib, for about half its length, and transverse processes of the upper four lum- bar vertebrae. It depresses the last rib, and inclines the lumbar portion of the spine to its own side ; acting from the spine, it suspends or even raises the pelvis on its own side. Both muscles straighten and support the loins. Intercostales interni, figs. 150, 154, " Deep; eleven in number, on each side, composed of short mixed fleshy and tendinous fasciculi ; obliquely upwards and inwards, between the ribs, from near the angles behind, to the sternum in front, the lowest two joining the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen. Upper border of the rib below inner lip of the groove on the under border of the rib above, and its costal cartilage. Infracostales are described, consisting of small bundles, occupying the inner aspect of the Fig. 149.—The Pra-Vertebral Group; with the Scaleni.