THE FEMALE SKELETON. 197 masculine characters in the male, the female head and face retaining a nearer resemblance to the child's. Thus the female cranium, as compared with the male, is absolutely smaller, though, relatively to the rest of the skeleton, it is often larger. In shape, it is more regularly ovoid; it has more gentle con- tours, and smoother surfaces ; its various ridges and eminences are softened down, and its substance is thinner and lighter. In particular, the occipital protuberance is less prominent, and the adjacent sviperior curved lines are less marked ; the curved temporal ridge, on each side, for the attachment of the temporal fascia, is less pronounced ; the vertex, along the sagittal suture, is lower and more rounded; the supra-orbital margins are smoothly and finely arched, especially towards their outer ends ; the forehead is rounded and full, opposite the frontal eminences, but, suddenly changing its profile on a level with them, becomes nearly vertical, down to the glabella, which is compara- tively flat; more especially the superciliary eminences and the frontal sinuses within them, are very slightly developed. In the/ace, the malar eminences are subdued, the zygomatic arches are slender and but little projecting, and the nasal bones smaller and especially narrower, so that the bridge of the nose is not so wide, though it may be nearly as prominent. The alveolar and dental arches are not only more delicately formed, but are narrower from side to side, more elliptical, and more regular in outline and curve. The teeth are smaller and less prominent, and the dental line along which they meet, is curved obliquely upwards behind. The angle of the lower jaw is more obtuse, the ramus being more oblique, and the body of the bone less horizontal. I'he chin is smaller, and more pointed than in the male. In the base of the cranium, the concealed part of the occipital bone is not only less convex, but it inclines more obliquely upwards and backwards; the foramen magnum is smaller, and the occipital condyles on each side, are not only smaller, but less prominent. Considered as a whole, the cranium is, proportionally, somewhat elongated from before backwards, and moderately wide; but, relatively, it is not so high as in the male; its occipital region is most developed, next, the frontal, and, least of all, the parietal and temporal regions. The face, as a whole, is, proportionally to the cranium, smaller in the female, less prominent at the cheeks, and more slanting forwards towards the chin. The front view of the cranium and the face together, presents a longer and more elegant ovoid figure. The special characters of every part of the skeleton, which are distinctive of sex, appear only as development advances ; so likewise, as old aye comes on, the male and female skeletons once more approach in character. The more rugged male skeleton, in accordance with the decreasing activity of the muscular system, becomes somewhat softer; whilst the smoother female skeleton is said to lose some of its delicacy of form, and to become more mas- culine. In both sex es, all the bones progressively waste; the necks of the