THE MUSCLES. 380 flexor muscles; below the elbow, on the inner side, it is strengthened by the bicipital fascia, figs. 124, 166, % already noticed with the biceps muscle; lastly, it is attached to the olecranon process, and along the posterior border of the ulna, in the ulnar furrow. At the wrist, it is continuous with the annular ligaments and, thence, with the fasci;© of the hand, just described. Surface-Forms dependent on the Muscles of the Upper Limb. The effects produced by the biceps muscle, when at rest and in action, on the surface-forms of the arm, have been fully examined, p. 262. On either side of it, the plane of the brachialis anticus becomes evident, long and narrow on the outer side, shorter and somewhat triangular, just above the elbow on the inner side. The coraco-brachialis is recognisable, only when the arm is lifted from the body. On the back of the arm, a somewhat strongly marked, longitudinal elevation, emerging from beneath the deltoid, narrow above, but swelling out downwards as low as the middle of the arm, indicates the position of the long head of the triceps, whilst on either side, the asymmetrical forms of its two other heads are plainly seen, the outer one, longer and less prominent, the inner one shorter but more prominent; between them, is the elongated quadrangular plane, dependent on the tendon of this compound muscle, flatter than the fleshy portions, but slightly convex from side to side, its upper end cut off obliquely, from within outwards, its inner border longer than the outer one, which is, however, somewhat more evident; moreover, it becomes wider and flatter below, between the condyles of the humerus. In front of the elbow, is the well-known, asymmetrical, triangular space or hollow, with its unequal sides, and its unequally divided surface. The inner border, commencing at the inner condyle of the humerus, and corre- sponding with the pronator teres, is shorter, more oblique, and less prominent, being held down by the strong fascia ; the outer border, commencing higher up above the outer condyle, and corresponding with the supinator longus, is longer, nearly vertical, and more prominent, being covered by a thinner part of the fascia; the base of the triangle, obscurely marked, corresponds with the lower part of the fleshy portion of the brachialis anticus, and is traversed, somewhat obliquely from within outwards, by the prominence due to the tendon of the biceps muscle, which enters the space from above, and divides it into two unequal parts. The popliteal space, on the other hand, the homologous space on the lower limb, is lozenge-shaped, not ti iangular, has its most prominent sides above it, not below, and is traversed by a median prominence, which enters it from below, not from above.