THE BONES. 136 soft parts, there is a depression below the epi-condyle of the humerus, which corresponds with the head of the radius, and constitutes the pit or dimple, seen, and regarded as a beauty, in well-formed, and especially in children's arms ; it is plainest when the arm is extended, but is replaced by a slight elevation when the fore-arm is flexed. The exact position of the head of the radius can be determined by the touch, provided that the bone be rotated, by grasping the hand and alternately pronating and supinating the fore- arm ; it becomes more prominent during pronation. The only really subcutaneous part of the radius, is a lozenge-shaped, some- what convex surface, on the outer side of the base of the styloid process. This is seen or felt, precisely at the outer border of the fore-arm, immediately above the wrist, not on the back of the fore-arm like the head of the ulna; it is situated lower down and is much broader than the prominence of the styloid process of the ulna. Its apex bends in towards the wrist, and, so, does not protrude. Above the subcutaneous part of the styloid process, and for a short distance upwards, the rounded outer border of the radius, though near the integument, is covered by tendons; whilst, still higher up, it is over- lapped by muscles. At the back of the fore-arm, just above the wrist, the numerous grooves in the bone are concealed by the tendons lying in them, and the intermediate ridges by the posterior annular ligament, which binds down those tendons. The Bones of the Haxd. All the bones of the hand are visible in the skeleton, on its palmar as- pect, fig. 58, carpal, metacarpal, and jjhalangeal; but the pisiform bone is concealed from view, on the dorsal aspect, fig. 59. The Carpal Bones.—The eight bones which are clustered together, so as to form two groups, in the carpus, are much smaller than those of the tarsus, and have individually much less influence on the shape of the slender wrist, than the tarsal bones have on that of the instep and hinder part of the foot. Nevertheless, in their construction, they are as obviously adapted for their respective uses. If the pisiform bone be regarded as a sesamoid bone, belonging to the sclero-skeleton, there are only seven bones in the carpus, as in the tarsus. The semi-lunar bone, figs. 58, 59, which corresponds with the astragalus in the tarsus, and so may here claim precedence, occupies the centre of the first row, and is crescentic in shape, its convexity being turned upwards, and its concavity downwards. Its dorsal and palmar surfaces, non-articular, are slightly roughened for the attachment of ligaments, the palmar surface being