THE MUSCLES. 306 ischial tuberosity, opposite the small sacro-sciatic notch, then deflected over slight grooves in the bone covered with cartilage and provided with a synovial membrane, and thence passing outwards and somewhat upwards, behind the hip joint. Inner surface of the borders of the obturator foramen, obturator membrane, and surface of the ischium behind the foramen upper border of the greater trochanter, and contiguous part of the neck of the femur, in conjunction with the two gemelli. Gemelli, or twin muscles, inferior and superior, figs. 143, 141, Deep ; small and slender; nearly horizontal outwards, at the back of the hip joint, one below, the other above the obturator internus, with which they are conjoined in their insertion. The inferior, the larger, from the upper and back part of the ischial tuberosity, the superior, sometimes wanting, from the outer and lower part of the ischial spine lower and upper borders of the tendon of the obturator internus, and thus to the greater trochanter of the femur. They are extra-pelvic portions of the obturator internus. Pyriformis, figs. 139, 142, 143, Deep, and partly within the pelvis; long, pyramidal, commencing by three digitations, tapering gradually to a single, cord-like tendon ; oblique, downwards and outwards, passing out of the pelvis, through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and thence to the back of the femur. Front of the sacrum, and slightly from the margin of that notch, and adjacent ligament back of the upper part of the greater trochanter, between the tendons of the obturator internus and gluteus minimus, its own tendon being more or less connected with them. The six muscles just described, all rotate the femur outwards, an habitual position of the lower limb ; but when the thigh is flexed, as, for example, in the sitting posture, they, with the exception of the obturator externus, abduct the femur, the last named muscle, owing to its tendon being placed below the hip joint, still acting as an external rotator. When the lower limb is fixed, they slightly rotate the pelvis on the head of the femur, so as to turn the pubes towards the opposite side ; reciprocal rotatory movements of this kind occur in walking. In standing, these muscles steady the hip joint behind. The obturator externus may assist in drooping the pelvis forwards. The Gluteal Group, figs. 139-146. This very distinct group, which covers the outer surface of the ilium, the hip joint, the head and neck of the femur, the rotator group, and the upper portion of the flexor muscles, consists of the gluteus minimus, gluteus medius, and gluteus maximus. Gluteus minimus, figs. 139, 143, 144, Deep and entirely concealed; fan-shaped, its fibres converging below to the under side of a triangular tendon; obliquely downwards and outwards. Outer surface of the ilium, between the inferior and superior curved lines, and margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch an impression on the front of the greater trochanter,