66 THE BONES. As to the lower end of the femur, the broad lateral surface of its outer condyle produces a breadth and flatness of the corresponding part of the limb, just above the knee. The prominence of the external tuberosity can be more or less easily recognised here, at some distance above the elevation or depression, which, according to circumstances, indicates the position of the head of the fibula. The lateral surface of the inner condyle is more thickly covered than that of the outer condyle ; but its internal tuberosity and, indeed, its whole mass are more prominent, so that here the general form is more convex, especially when the knee is flexed. In certain actions of the limb, the apex of the internal tuberosity, and the rounded lower tendon of the adductor magnus running down to it, become momentarily visible. In the straight position of the knee, it is impossible, owing to the presence of the patella, and to the folds of the loose integument, to trace, with the eye alone, the lateral borders of the articular surfaces of the condyles ; but, when the knee is bent, and the patella retreats into the interval then formed between the lower end of the femiu- and the head of the tibia, and at the same time glides a little outwards, the curvature of the margin of the internal condyle becomes very evident, though softened by the integument and subjacent tissues, now stretched more or less tightly over it. At the upper end of the femur, nearly the whole of the outer surface of the greater trochanter, is deeply seated, and thoroughly concealed by muscles, or by their tendinous attachments. But, in the standing position, especially when the thigh is rotated outwards, the small flattened subcutaneous stirface of this trochanter is directed slightly backwards a* well as outwards, and is depressed below the level of the neighbouring soft parts, which now leave a larger trochanteric depression amongst the surrounding muscles. WTien, however, the limb is made to approach the opposite one, as in standing with the hip prominent, or in crossing the limbs, or when it is flexed, as in stoop- ing, then the greater trochanter produces a broad blunt eminence on the sur- face. In standing equally on both limbs, the upper surfaces of the heads of the thigh bones are nearly an inch above the summits of the greater tro- chanters. In leaning backwards, the thigh being then powerfully extended, and the muscles and ligaments in front of the hip-joint stretched, the head, with the immediately adjoining part of the neck of the femur, produces a marked fulness where the hollow is usually seen in the groin. The Innomii\-ate Bone or Hip-Boxe. The innominate bones or Ai^-bones, right and left, are the largest of the so-called flat bones in the skeleton. They are very irregular in shape, but are expanded in different directions, and are placed, one on each side of the lower part of the trunk, with their longest diameter slanting downwards and for-