THE JOINTS. 200 As implied by their name, no movements occur at the true synarthroses or immoveable joints; but they permit of the continuous growth of the ad- joining bones, and they serve to deaden shock. In advanced life, some of these sutures are obliterated by osseous union. The junction of the first costal cartilage with the upper piece of the sternum, and those of all the ribs with their cartilages, are not true articulations, but merely places of con- tinuity between bone and cartilage; they might be regarded as special synarthroses. The Mixed Joints. The mixed joints, or Amphiarthroses {a/j^l, around; apdpov, a joint), include those, in which the opposed surfaces of the bones are everywhere connected together by an intermediate soft substance, fibrous externally, and more or less fihro-cartilaginous towards its central part. In most of these mixed joints, there is no intermediate cavity in the fibro-cartilage between the bones, but, in a few, such a cavity exists, lined by an imperfect synovial membraneand, in this way, they appioach in character the moveable joints. The fibro-cartilage which forms the central part of the uniting medium, is composed of fibrous, mixed with cartilaginous tissue. It differs, as to firm- ness or softness, in different articulations, sometimes containing coarse fibres, sometimes a delicate fibrous matrix. Externally, the bones are connected together by special ligaments {ligare, to tie), which are dense, tough, and almost inextensible structures, composed of parallel or closely interlaced bundles of fibrous tissue, which form white, shining, non-elastic cords or bands. In certain of these joints, however, the ligaments are of a yellowish colour, owing to the presence in them of bundles of so-called yelloiv elastic tissue, which imparts to them more or less elasticity. The mixed joints having no central cavity, are exemplified by the articu- lations between the bodies of the vertebraB, and, until bony union occurs between them, by the junctions of the three pieces of the sternum. The mixed joints having a central cavity and an imperfect synovial membrane, are the articulations of the sacrum with the ilia, and that of the pubic bones together. The former is the sacro-iliac junction or synchondrosis (avv, together, T^oz/()poy, gi'istle). The latter is named the pubic symphysis (o-yj', together ; <pvsiv, to grow), although the bones do not here grow together, as at the symphysis of the lower jaw, which is properly so named. The mixed joints have great strength, but the movements permitted at them are slight; no distinct gliding motion even is possible, but only an ex- ceedingly limited change of relative position of the adjacent bones, in every direction. They confer elasticity and resiliency on certain parts of the body, and deaden the effects of shock or strain. In reference to the external