THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 323 ribs, where the internal intercostals cease behind ; they are not present in every space. Intercostales externi, figs. 152, 155, Deep ; eleven in number, on each side, composed of short, mixed fleshy and tendinous, slips ; obliquely downwards and inwards, between the ribs, from the tubercles behind, to near the commencement of the costal cartilages in front, whence they are continued by a thin fascia to the sternum, the lower muscles, however, extending forwards between the cartilages, and the two lowest reaching to the ends of the ribs. Outer lip of the groove on the under border of the rib above upper border of the rib below. The external intercostals are thicker than the internal ones ; the fasciculi of the two muscles cross each other; the former are deficient in the fore part, and the latter in the hinder part of the intercostal spaces. Levatores costarum, Gg. 147, Deep; twelve in number, small, fan-shaped, tendinous and fleshy; downwards and outwards, from the spine to the ribs. Transverse processes of the seventh cervical, and of all the dorsal vertebrae except the lowest upper borders of the ribs below, between their tubercles and angles. These muscles increase in size from above downwards; and some of the lower muscles send down slips to the second rib below, named levatores costarum longiores. Tlie anterior portions of the five or six upper internal intercostals, near the sternum, elevate the ribs, and so assist in inspiration; but, elsewhere, they depress the ribs, invert their lower borders, narrow the intercostal spaces, and so diminish the capacity of the thorax, both in width, and in depth from before backwards, thus acting as expiratory muscles. All the external intercostals, on the contrary, are inspiratory muscles, elevating the ribs, especially in front, everting their lower borders, and thus increasing the lateral and antero- posterior dimensions of the thorax. The levatores costarum assist the hind- most parts of the external intercostals in raising the ribs, and are inspiratory muscles. Diaphragma. figs. 147, 153, Deep; a partly muscular, partly tendinous septum, arched or vaulted upwards ; placed obliquely between the abdomen and the thorax, hence named the midriff, separating the two cavities, and forming a concave roof to the one, and a convex floor to the other. Bodies of the upper three lumbar vertebras, fascia in front of the quadratus lumborum, lower six costal cartilages, portions of the corresponding ribs, and back of the xiphoid appendix posterior, lateral, and anterior borders of a large, central, heart-shaped or trefoil sheet of tendon. The diaphragm is placed about opposite the junction of the lower two thirds with the upper third of the trunk; its convexity reaches, on the right side, as high as the level of the fore part of the fifth rib, on the left side, to the level of that of the sixth rib. The heart rests on its central tendon, the apex of that organ pointing to the left of the sternum, below and internal to the centre of the mammary gland; the lungs are, of course, in contact with the Y 2