8i THE BONES. covered with cartilage, and their ligamentous connexions, determine the character of the movements between any two neighbouring vertebrae. The size and shape of the several component parts of a vertebra, necessarily vary, as the uses to which they are put, are modified in each region of the spine. There is, however, no sudden change, but rather a transition, from one form of vertebra to another, at the limits of the different regions, and the middle vertebrae of each region are typical of that region. Nevertheless, the twelve dorsal vertebrte are quite peculiar, in being connected each with a pair of moveable ribs ; and the cervical vertebra?, with the exception of the lowest, are distinguished by having their transverse pro- cesses perforated at the base. The centra or bodies of the vertebrae may be said, in general terms, though the statement requires to be accepted with reserve as regards the dorsal region, to diminish in size from the lower to the upper end of the column, more especially in their height and transverse sectional area. This is in evident relation to the proportionately diminishing weight which they have to carry. In the lumbar region, figs. 32, 33, the bodies are much the largest in all their dimensions; their broad under and upper surfaces are oval or somewhat kidney-shaped, and much widened transversely. This part of the spine, being unsupported at the sides by ribs, possessed of a considerable range of movement, and capable of much lateral inclination, requires special support in that direction. The lumbar bodies, moreover, are relatively more constricted across their middle, so as to project considerably at their upper and under margins; they are, likewise, thicker, from below upwards, in front than at the back, thus assisting in the production of the lumbar spinal curve, which is convex anteriorly. This peculiarity is especially noticeable in the body of the fifth or lowest lumbar vertebra, the under surface of which is very oblique, to fit the slanting upper surface of the sacrum, just above its promontory, opposite the sacro-vertebral angle. In the dorsal region, figs. 30, 31, the bodies diminish in size up to the fourth vertebra, above which they again increase up to the first. They are smaller than the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, as they carry less weight. They are compressed laterally, so that their bearing surfaces are deeper from before backwards, than they are wide from side to side, evidently in relation to the fact, that, in this part of the spine, which is supported on each side by the ribs, and has its lateral movements limited by them, the characteristic motion is forwards and back- wards, that is, precisely in the direction of the longest diameter of the centra. The lateral compression of the dorsal bodies, also increases the accommodation for the lungs. They are somewhat thicker, from below upwards, behind than in front, in harmony with the dorsal curve which is concave anteriorly. In accordance with the general fact, that the vertebrae of different regions exhibit transitional characters, the bodies of the lower dorsal approach, in