250 THE MUSCLES. 3 to 12 feet per second. In actual operation during life, the contraction must therefore practically affect every portion of a single fibre, which measures at most 11 inch in length, simultaneously, and, very quickly, all the fibres of one fasciculus, and all the fasciculi of one muscle, so accomplishing a combined and regular movement in the whole muscle; but probably the component fibres, and even the several fasciculi, really support each other by acting and resting, in very rapid succession, in such aggregates and in such small intervals of time, as enable the muscle to maintain the necessary continuous effort. Out of the body, and quite free, a muscular fibre may shorten itself by three- fifths of its length; but, in a living muscle, the practical effect is a shorten- ing of from about one-third to nearly one-half, the amount varying on different occasions, and under different circumstances. This is always accom- panied by a corresponding thickening of the muscle. The substance of a muscle becomes firmer, and even hard, during contraction, when its ends are fixed, owing to the tension of its fibres. Nevertheless, the shortening and increase of thickness, which then occur, are not accompanied by any important condensation of its fleshy substance ; this, indeed, like water, of which it contains so much, is almost incompressible. Accordingly, unlike what occurs in the contraction of a cooling substance, such as a ball of hot iron, there is but little change in the bulk of a muscle, when it contracts ; this is said to amount to only y3i-p(, th of its mass, when in a state of rest. Since long fasciculi will practically contract in the same time as short ones, it is evident that a combination of these in a muscle, will contract through more space, in a given time, in proportion to their length, and thus produce more motion ; but they will act more strongly, in proportion to their number ; hence the velocity of action of a muscle may be estimated from its length, and the power, from its sectional area across its component fasciculi. It can be shown, experimentally, that the contraction of a muscular fibre, though called spontaneous or automatic, is the result of the application of some stimulant to the fibre. The stimulus may be external or internal, and either mechanical, thermal, electrical, or chemical, vito-chemical or vital. It is observable in all cases, that, within the limits of its absolute power, the muscular tissue contracts more powerfully, as the stimulus itself, whatever its nature, is stronger. Daring life, the muscles are naturally excited to act, by a stimulus operating through, or originating in the nervous system, and conveyed to them by the motor nerves. Such a stimulus is vital, and leads to the excitation of the movements due to reflex, emotional, or volitional changes occurring in the nerve centres. It reaches the muscles along the nerves dis- tributed upon the muscular fibres, fig. 118, i,j. As the amount of force exercised by a muscle, is in a direct ratio with the intensity of the exciting stimulus, so the swiftness and duration of its action depend, within certain limits, on the rapid incidence, and the continuance of the stimulus. Over-