103 THE BONES OF THE THORAX. they present a sudden enlargement, which is either articulated or consoli- dated with the cartilage beneath. The succeeding costal cartilages, fig. 27, from the seventh upwards, be- longing to the true or vertebro-sternal ribs, are wider, and gradually become shorter and shorter up to the first, which is the shortest of all. With the exception of the first, their costal extremities are somewhat wider than their sternal ends ; these, however, present a slight rounded enlargement, which is fitted into a corresponding notch in the border of the sternum. The seventh and sixth cartilages are attached very closely together, whilst the in- tervals between the others gradually increase in width, up to the third or second cartilage, between which the widest interspace exists. The cartilage of the first rib, fig. 40, is, like that rib itself, the shortest, thickest, and broadest; it is of nearly uniform breadth throughout, and is not so much articulated, as actually continuous, with the upper part of the sternum ; it has the subclavius muscle, and costo-clavicular ligament, attached to its upper surface close to the rib, and the sterno-hyoid and -thjroid muscles behind. When the entire series of ribs with their cartilages, is viewed in situ, fig. 27, it is seen that even the first rib is not quite horizontal, nor even at right- angles with the spine, which is itself curved forwards, but is inclined a little downwards and forwards. This inclination becomes progressively more and more marked in the other ribs, down to the lowest, which is the most slant- ing. The obliquity is partly due to the slight twist and bend in each rib, near its angle, but is also dependent on the mode in which the ribs are seve- rally fixed. Some of the lower ribs, from about the tenth to the seventh, pre- sent near their anterior end, a slight upward inclination. The costal carti- lages, with the exception of the twelfth and eleventh, ascend obliquely from the ends of their respective ribs to reach the cartilages next above them, or the sternum. The degree of obliquity gradually diminishes, however, from the tenth to the third cartilage ; the direction of the second is nearly hori- zontal, whilst the first descends slightly, as it passes forwards to the sternum. Of the intercostal spaces, the first and second are shorter and wider than those which immediately follow, the first being the wider and the shorter of the two ; the third and fourth are the next in width ; below the fourth, the remaining spaces diminish in width. Some of the lower ribs almost touch each other, and the spaces between them are very nan'ow, but the two lowest spaces are both wide and short. Most of the interspaces are wider in front than behind ; but below the fifth space, they become more uniform in width, the eighth and ninth being even narrower in front, whilst the two last spaces are again wider in that direction. The bony portions of the ribs increase in length, from the first to the seventh or eighth ; then they gradually diminish in length, to the tenth ; whilst the eleventh and twelfth become suddenly shorter. But, although the