THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 411 than the margins of the two ala3. The fore parts of the lateral cartilages of the two sides, enter into the tip of the nose which, like the alse, contains fatty tissue beneath a thick integument. The openings of the nostrils have a typical downward direction, in the higher races of mankind. The skin of the nose is thin, and loosely connected with the parts beneath, except upon the tip and alse, where it is more tense, and, especially at the tip, strongly reflects light. Pyramidalis nasi, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial; a long triangular slip; vertical upon the frontal and nasal bones, and upper lateral nasal cartilage. Continuous with the occipito-frontalis muscle above an aponeurosis common to it and the compressor alse nasi below. The muscles of the two sides, in contact above, diverge as they descend ; they are some- times joined to the orbicular muscles of the eyelids. They are prolongations of the occipito-frontalis. They tighten the skin over the cartilaginous part of the nose; acting from below, they draw down the skin of the forehead, and produce transverse wrinkles over the bridge of the nose, across the direction of their own fasciculi. It expresses an aggressive feeling. Compressor alcenasi, compressor naris, vel nasi, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial, except at its very origin ; small, triangular; inwards and forwards, on to the cartilaginous part of the nose. Canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, by a pointed fleshy process a thin expanded aponeurosis, uniting with that of the opposite side, and blended, above, with that of the pyramidalis muscle. It stretches or tightens the skin over the corresponding part of the nose. The two muscles, acting together, depress and compress the cartilaginous portion of the nose, including the alse. According to some, however, it may dilate the upper part of the cartilaginous nasal framework. Dilatatores nasi, posterior a.nd anterior, figs. 186, 187, 193. Super- ficial ; diminutive, irregular, sometimes requiring the use of a lens for their detection; oblique downwards and forwards, on the side of the ala. The posterior, from the margin of the nasal notch and sesamoid cartilages, the anterior, from the cartilage of the ala dense skin of the margin of the nostril. They raise and evert the ala of the nose, and thus enlarge the nostril; they act quietly in ordinary inspiration, especially during sleep, resisting the tendency of the nostrils to close, from atmospheric pressure ; but they contract vigorously during difficult breathing, and most energetically in the expression of pride, anger, contempt or disdain. Depressor alee nasi, or myrtiformis, figs. 186, 197, Superficial, except for a short distance below; small, short, flat; radiating upwards to the nose. Incisor or myrtiform fossa of the superior maxillary bone septum of the nose and hinder part of the ala. It draws the ala downwards and backwards, and counteracts the movement of dilatation, by inverting the margin of the nostril. It may, also, depress the middle part of the upper lip.