THE BONES OF THE THOEAX. is slightly convex in front, and distinctly concave behind. The plane of the manubrium is the most inclined forwards, that of the body less so, the direc- tion of the xiphoid cartilage being very nearly vertical, fig. 43. The thorax, considered as a whole, figs. 26,27,is shaped like a truncated cone, somewhat flattened before and behind, and having its base cut off obliquely from before, downwards and backwards ; it is, accordingly, much longer behind than in front. It is characteristic of the human thorax, as compared with that of quadrupeds, that its width from side to side exceeds its depth from back to front. Owing to the projection into it, behind, of the vertebral column, its horizontal section presents a cordiform or heart-shaped outline. Its smaller upper aperture, bounded by the first dorsal vertebra, the first rib, and the sternum, gives passage, amongst other parts, to the windpipe. Its lower aperture, much larger than the upper, formed by the last dorsal vertebra, the lower border of the last rib, the cartilages of the succeeding ribs, up to the seventh, and the xiphoid cartilage, is closed by the diapluagm, which gives passage to important parts, and is a chief agent in respiration. Surface-forms dependent on the Ribs, Costal Cartilages, and Sternum. At the back of the thorax, on each side of the perpendicular row of dorsal spines, the vertebral grooves, as already stated, are extended laterally, by shallower depressions reaching as far as the angles of the ribs. These angles, which afford attachment to the strong vertebral fascia, form a slightly marked oblique line, which diverges, more or less, from the spines, in passing down, the entire space between it and the spinous processes, being filled by the longitudinal and oblique muscles of the back. The projection of the curved portions of the ribs, near the angles, produces a broad, convex, longitudinal prominence, situated at some distance from the middle line, and thinly covered by muscles. The rounded longitudinal forms, one on each side in the back, are quite characteristic of the broad and flat human thorax. On each side of the chest, from the region of the axilla or arm-pit above, downwards and forwards, and between the muscles which form the anterior and posterior boundaries of that space, the flattened surfaces of the bodies of the ribs, form softly marked, oblique, linear elevations or ridges, with slightly depressed intervals between them, corresponding with the several intercostal spaces, which are filled in by the intercostal muscles. All these parts, however, are covered by other, more superficial, muscles, so that, in only one small place, are they strictly subcutaneous. In front of the chest, the markings formed by the flat and broad con- tinuations of the ribs, as these begin to ascend, by the obliquely directed and more rounded costal cartilages, and by the chondro-sternal articulations, are often visible, more so, however, below the great pectoral muscle down to