THE JOINTS OF THE VERTEBEAL COLUMN. 225 The Sacro-vertebral Articulation, and Ilio-lumbar Liga- ments.—An intervertebral substance, with ligaments similar to those which unite the bodies and the articulai' and other processes of the moveable ver- tebrae, is present between the sacrum and the lowest lumbar vertebra. But two special ligaments exist on each side, namely, the sacro-vertebral ligament, a triangular band, extending from the upper surface of the sacrum to the under surface of the last lumbar transverse process, and the ilio-lumbar liga- ment, also triangular, which converges from the broad hinder part of the crest of the ilium, to the summit of the same transverse process. These two strong ligaments afford powerful support to the junction of the moveable with the immoveable portion of the vertebral column, at which great strains are continually borne. The Joints of the Moveable Vertebrse.—The moveable vertebrae are so far peculiar, that they articulate with each other by both mixed and moveable joints, by the former at their bodies, by the latter at their articular processes. The laminae, the spinous processes, and the transverse processes, are also connected by special ligaments. The intervertebral fibro-cartilages, substances, or discs, figs. 91 to 93, which connect the bodies of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis, differ in consistency" and structure at their circumference and at their centres, but they adhere everywhere to the bodies of the vertebrae between which they are placed ; they are also attached by their edges, to the adjacent ligaments. In outline and size, they correspond with the bodies of the vertebrae in the different regions ; and they are not flat above and below, but lenticular. They are absolutely, and proportionally, thickest in the lumbar region; and proportionally thicker in the cervical than in the dorsal region. In the lumbar and cervical regions, where the spine is convex anteriorly, the discs are thicker in front; in the dorsal region, where the spine is concave an- teriorly, they are slightly thicker behind. The curve of the lumbar and cer- vical regions, depends mainly on the wedge-shape of the intervertebral discs; whereas that of the dorsal region is principally dependent on the shape of the bodies of the vertebrae. The intervertebral substances form nearly one-fourth of the whole length of the moveable portion of the spine; they are said to undergo, from pressure in the upright posture, a slight diminution in thick- ness, by,which the stature is reduced during the day, nearly half an inch, which is recovered in the night. The outer portion of each invertebral disc is laminated, fig. 91, being composed of altetnate layers of fibrous membrane and fibro-cartilage, concentrically arranged, those next to the circumference of the disc being more closely, and those nearer to the centre less closely packed together. As seen on a transverse section, fig. 92, these layers resemble the divided scales of an onion. The component fibres of the mem- Q