301 THE MUSCLES OF THE THTOH. The Adducent-Plexor Group, figs. 140, 142. This comprises two long nari'ow muscles, the sartorius and the gracilis, the one crossing the front of the thigh obliquely, the other descending along its inner side. Sartorius, figs. 140, 142, 143, Superficial throughout, but enclosed in a strong sheath formed by the fascia; very long, containing the longest fleshy fasciculi in the body, narrow and fusiform above, prismatic where it fits in between the rectus and vastus intemus, and the adductors, then flat and ribbon-shaped, a form wrongly attributed to it througliout its whole length ; descends obliquely downwards and inwards over the rectus, iliacus, psoas, pectineus and adductor longus, then vertically between the gracilis and the vastus internus, next over the tendon of the adductor magnus, then down in front of the gracilis, by the hinder part of the side of the inner condyle of the femur and the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint, and lastly, curves gently forwards, ceasing gradually to be fleshy, to gain the inner side of the upper end of the tibia. Anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and upper half of the notch below it upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, as far forwards as the crest of the bone, by a flat triangular aponeurosis. This is a most important muscle as regards the surface; it is named the sartorius or tailors muscle, (sartor, a tailor), because it assists in crossing the legs, in the squatting position. Its anterior surface above, soon turns forwards and inwards, and, in the lower third of the muscle, looks directly inwards; its fleshy fasciculi descend further down on the hinder edge of its tendon of insertion, reaching below the knee joint; the triangular expansion of that tendon covers the tendons of the gracilis and the semi-tendinosus, a bursa intervening; it also blends with the fascia, and with the capsule of the knee. The sartorius, in free movements, first bends the leg upon the thigh, then flexes the thigh upon the pelvis, next rotates the thigh, and, lastly, may also adduct it, so as to bring the limb over the opposite one; when the knee is bent, it rotates the tibia inwards, thus assisting the semi-tendinosus and the popliteus. Acting from below in forced movements, it supports the knee on the inner side, flexes the pelvis on the thigh, and rotates it inwards over the head of the femur; both muscles acting, prevent the pelvis falling backwards, in the standing posture. Gracilis, 140, 142, 144,^*. Superficial; thin, slender, (whence its name), flattened or ribbon-shaped in its upper half, tapering to a long delicate tendon, which occupies its lower third; vertical, along the inner side of the adductors, and then between the sartorius and the tendon of the semi-membranosus, somewhat behind the knee, finally curving forwards upon the lateral ligament of that joint, to the upper end of the tibia. Lower border of the descending ramus of the os pubis upper part of the inner side of the tibia, just beneath the internal tuberosity. Its tendon lies behind the sartorius, but in front of and above the tendon of the semi-tendinosus ; its insertion is covered by the expanded tendon of the sartorius, and is connected with the fascia. The