2G9 THE COVEEINGS OF THE MUSCLES. The Superficial Fascia.—This is a loose moist web of areolar tissue, which nearly everywhere connects the deep fascia with the skin, in such a way that the latter can move more or less freely over the former. It contains the subcutaneous fatty tissue of the body, and hence has been termed the panniculus adiposus. On the front and inner aspect of the limbs, and on the front and sides of the neck, it consists of two easily separable layers, between which the subcutaneous veins, fig. 124, are situated. On the head, face, and neck, the cutaneous muscles are placed in the deeper of the two layers, which contains little or no fat, and is named thepaniiicitlus camosits. On the abdomen, on the contrary, this superficial fascia contains much soft fat, and, on the back, a more granular fat. It is also thick and loaded with fat, over and below the gluteal region. The superficial fascia as well as the skin, is particularly loose over the prominences of the joints, where it presents closed spaces or cavities named bursce (bursa, a purse), which facilitate the movement of the skin over those parts. It may be said almost to give place to fatj in the palms and soles, and on the face, to yield to the muscles which penetrate it to reach the under side of the skin. The Skin.—The skin or common iiitegitmant of the body, consists of two super-imposed and closely adherent membranous structures. The deeper and thicker membrane is the cutis, derma, corion, or true skin ; this is a dense, pinkish or yellowish white, translucent structure, varying in thickness from about -ith of an inch in the soles of the feet, to about -L_th of an inch in the eyelids ; it is composed chiefly of areolar tissue, but contains also yellow elastic fibres, and a certain number of scattered, pale, involuntary muscular fibres, besides blood-vessels and nerves ; it is therefore strong, flexible, elastic, slightly con- tractile, as seen under the influence of cold and fear, and liable to changes of colour from variations in the quantity of blood circulating through its vessels, as observed especially in the face, and in the palms of the hands. Its under surface is connected with the superficial fascia and subcutaneous fat; in its substance are found the hair bulbs and sacs, the sebaceous follicles, and the sudori- ferous glands. Its surface is smooth, but marked with a network of fine lines, or parallel ridges, and presents in parts many little sensitive eminences, named papillae. Upon it, is closely attached the thinner superficial membrane of the skin, named the cuticle, epidermis, or scarf skin. The innermost strata of the cuticle, soft, moist, and translucent, form the rete mucosum of Malpighi, which, though colourless in a fair white skin, is coloured in darker complexions, and contains much pigment in the yellow, brown, and black races; the outermost stratum of the cuticle, is dry, colourless and transparent, and consists of microscopic scales. The total thickness of the cuticle varies from Jjth of an inch in the soles, to ^oth of an inch in the body generally ; it is marked by the same network of lines or ridges, as the cutis on which it is