375 THE MUSCLES OF THE HAND. outside those of the flexor profundus, then between the two parts of the flexor brevis pollicis, and, lastly, in a fibrous sheath, which retains it in position, upon the first phalanx of the thumb; this sheath becomes thinner opposite to the joint between the two phalanges, so as not to interfere with flexion of that intermediate joint. The tendons of the flexor digitorum sublimis, figs. 172, 181, axid.-profundus, figs. 172, 173, 181, pass together beneath the annular ligament, and emerge from between the balls of the thumb and little finger, into the flat part of the palm, whence they enter the digital sheaths on the several fingers, retaining, throughout, their mutual relations, one covering the other. The digital sheaths consist of very strong trans- '" ^ '" verse bands, ligamenta vaginalia, opposite to the first and second phalanges, but are much thinner opposite to the inter-phalangeal joints, so as to permit of the move- ment of flexion there. As in the foot, the superficial tendons, here those of the flexor sublimis, divide into two slips, which form a grooved channel for the reception of the corresponding deep tendons, join beneath those tendons, and again subdivide, to be attached to the lateral ridges on the second pha- langes, whilst the deep tendons pro- ceed onwards to the base of the last phalanges. The digital sheaths are lined by synovial membranes; deli- cate vascular folds, vincula vascu- losa, pass from the front of the phalanges to the deep surface of both tendons; fibrous bands, ligamenta brevia, connect the tendons with the dense plantar ligaments of the inter-pha- langeal joints, and so pull up the capsules during flexion of the fingers; the ultimate ligamenta brevia of the deep tendons, contain, each, two small slips of elastic tissue, described and named by me, vincula subflava, which are larger than those in the foot, and probably help to slide the deep tendons forwards in the channel formed by the superficial tendons, during some of the movements of the fingers. Lumbricales, figs. 172 to 174, 181, 184, Deep, except at their in- sertions ; four in number, small, fusiform, or wormlike, the two inner ones Fig. 182.—The Palmar Fascia, and Palmaris Brevis Muscle.