87 THE MOVEABLE VERTEBE^. square in outline, being long, and yet very broad ; they are thick and rough along their upper edge and posterior surface, but especially so on their under surface; they are nearly horizontal in direction, and leave decided interspaces between them. Their broad surfaces, great strength, and projection backwards, are well adapted to afford attachment and leverage to the powerful muscles occupying this region of the spine, where the weight of the trunk, upper limbs and head, has to be balanced. Their horizontal direction offers no im- pediment to lateral inclination, whilst the interspaces between them permit a very free movement of the loins backwards. The lowest lumbar spinous process, situated just above theposterior sacro-vertebral angle, is smaller than the others. In the dorsal vertebrae, figs. 30, 31, the spinous processes are strongly developed, but they are longer and narrower than in the loins, and three-sided, not flattened laterally. They are not horizontal, with com- paratively wide interspaces; but from below upwards they gradually become more and more slanting, and leave smaller spaces between them, so that they become imbricated, their under borders and surfaces being even grooved or hollowed longitudinally, so as to aid their close approximation. Their elongated apices are somewhat tuberculated, and, at the lower part of the back, are slightly bifid. Owing to their great length, they increase the leverage for the muscles inserted into them, especially at the moment when this is most needed, namely, when the dorsal region is bent forward and has to be restored to the upright position; then it is, that these processes are most prominent. Their length, their closeness of adaptation, and their imbrica- tion, all serve to give firmness to the thorax generally, and to limit the movement of extension backwards, whilst they in no way interfere with flexion forwards, nor with the restoration of the spine to the upright posture, which are the chief and characteristic movements of the dorsal region. The spinous processes of the twelfth, eleventh and tenth dorsal vertebrae, are decidedly shorter, wider apart, and more nearly horizontal, than the others, in these respects resembling lumbar vertebrae; and it is in this region that a certain amount of backward extension and lateral inclination, is per- mitted ; so likewise, the spinous process of the first dorsal vertebra, is very long, strong, and nearly horizontal, somewhat like those of the neck. In the cervical region, figs. 28, 29, the spinous processes, generally, are smaller, shorter, less oblique, some being almost horizontal, and leave more marked spaces between their apices. These characters are especially noticeable in regard to the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third, cervical vertebrae ; they are favourable to great freedom, in lateral inclination, rotation, and backward extension. Though the cervical spinous processes are proportionally small, in accordance with the diminished weight here to be balanced, yet, with the exception of the lowest and highest, they are bifurcated at their summits, which end in two small, sometimes unsymmetrical, tubercles. This is a