114 THE BOXES. middle thirds; it is often slightly crenated, and tipped with cartilage; it reaches down to the inferior angle, which is of considerable thickness. From this point, the anterior or axillary border ascends to the under side of the neck of the bone : it is the thickest and strongest, and, spreading out at the neck, forms a ridge-like buttress for the support of the glenoid cavity. In front of the scapula, fig. 46, its anterior, deep, or thoracic surface, named also the venter, or ventral surface, is concave, and forms the sub- scapular fossa; it is marked by oblique ridges for the attachment of the tendinous intersections of the subscapular muscle, which arises from and fills up the fossa, except near the neck of the bone; this fossa is deepest at its upper and outer part, where the muscle is thickest, and the bone is thinnest. Upon this surface, at the upper and lower angles of the ala of the scapula, are attached the upper and lower parts of the great serratus magnus muscle, the middle part being connected with the intermediate portion of the inner lip of the posterior border. On the dorsal surface or dorsum of the scapula, fig. 48, there is seen, on the posterior border, at about one-third of the distance down from the upper to the lower angle, a small, smooth, triangular surface, from which the spinous process commences. To the part of the posterior border, between this surface and the superior angle, is inserted the levator anguli scapulae muscle ; to the part corresponding with the base of the smooth triangular surface, is fixed the lesser rhomboid muscle ; and to the remaining longer portion of the posterior border, downwards to the inferior angle, by means of a slightly curved fibrous band, the greater rhomboid muscle. These muscles aid in suspending the scapula from the spine. From the apex of the smooth triangular surface just mentioned, commences a narrow ridge, which speedily rises into a more and more projecting, flattened, triangular plate. One edge of this is united to the back of the scapula, as far outwards as its neck ; another, free and partly subcutaneous, forms a strong irregular crest passing obliquely upwards and outwards, across the dorsum of the bone, for about three-fourths of its width, and then, ciu-ving forwards, ends in the broad, ex- panded acromion process, which overhangs the shoulder; the remaining edge, also free, is the shortest, and forms a strong curved ridge, which rises behind the neck of the bone, and passes backwards, outwards, and upwards, to ter- minate on the vmder part of the acromion. This strong, oblique, bony plate, is the spine or spinous process of the scapnla, fig. 48, which is continued above the shoulder-joint, as the acromion process. Its upper and under surfaces are oblique, the upper one being directed inwards and forwards, and the lower one, outwards and backwards. It occupies about three-fourths of the width of the convex dorsum of the scapula, its base of attachment corre- sponding with the deepest part of the venter of the bone. It divides the dorsum, unequally, into an upper smaller, and a lower larger part, each of