THE BONES. 154 The nearly vertical portion of tlie occipital bone, fig, 62, above the superior curved line, is smoother and nearly subcutaneous, being only covered by the thin occipifo-frontalis muscle, and the rest of the scalp. It inclines upwards and somewhat backwards, and forms only a small part of the back of the cranial vault. The occipital protuberance, which bounds it below, is the thickest part of the bone, and indeed, of the whole skull. It is the part which strikes the ground, on falling backwards. It has no direct relation with either the cerebellum or the cerebrum; for the former corresponds with the concealed horizontal part of the bone, below the protuberance and the superior curved line, whilst the cerebrum is placed above these parts. The pro- tuberance, therefore, is situated between them, and does not indicate any special local development of either. As already stated, the occipital bone is articulated with the atlas, below, and united solidly by bone, in front, with the sphenoid bone ; its sides are connected by rough edges with the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bones, and its sinuous upper border by a thick indented edge with the two parietals. Like the broad portions of the other cranial bones, it is composed of an outer and an inner layer of compact tissue, named tables, con- nected by intermediate, cancellated tissue, known as the diploe; the inner table, from its appearance, hardness, and brittleuess, is called the vitreous table. At the occipital protuberance, and in the thickest parts of all the flat cranial bones, the two tables are thick, wide apart, and have much cancellated tissue between them. In the thinner parts of these bones, as for example, in the so-called fossae, the diploe is scanty, and the two tables nearly touch each other. The Parietal Bones. — Situated upon the two sides and the summit or vertex of the cranium, are the two broad parietal bones, figs. 61, 62, 63, P. Each of these is quadrangular in shape, convex on the outer, concave on the inner surface, and bent along its antero-posterior diameter, so that it consists of an almost vertical part, which forms a large portion of the side of the cranium, and of a more horizontal part, which forms a large portion of the cranial vault or roof. Like the occipital bone, each parietal has one portion more thickly, and another less thickly covered by soft structures, and these are also separated from each other by a curved line, figs. 62, 63, I; moreover, it has a special eminence upon it. This parietal eminence, • , is situated a little below, and in front of the centre of the bone ; it is not indicative of the existence of any special organ in the brain, although extreme width of the cranium opposite to those eminences, must be associated with a corresponding shape of the cerebrum. It is the seat of the primitive ossifying centre, from which each parietal bone has grown in all directions, and which always, more or less, retains