333 THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. in a sheath formed by the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle, covered also by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, but, in its lower fourth, covered by the united aponeuroses of all three of the broad muscles; long, flat, pointed below, but widening and, finally, becoming very thin above, exhibiting in its course three or four transverse tendinous in- scriptions or intersections, which, more or less completely, divide the muscle into segments, one intersection always curving upwards from near the umbilicus, two being above that, and sometimes a fourth, imperfect one, existing below; vertical from the pelvis to the chest, on one side of the middle line, between the linea alba, and the corresponding linea transver- salis. Crest and symphysis of the pubes, by a larger and smaller ten- dinous process fifth rib, fifth, sixth and seventh costal cartilages, and xiphoid cartilage, by three, thin, fleshy portions, Pyramidalia abdominis, fig. 154, Covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique; triangular, pointed above, small in man, some- times absent, the rectus then being- larger, sometimes double; vertical, close to the middle line. Front of the pubes and anterior pubic ligament linea alba, half way between the pubes and the umbilicus. The three broad muscles of the abdomen have similar but not, in all respects, identical actions. Crossing each other in three different directions, they support and compress the viscera evenly, in all positions of the body, contents of the abdomen, they assist backwards, as the diaphragm relaxes and ascends in expiration. They are themselves somewhat relaxed during inspiration. They may, however, when the spine is fixed, draw the lower ribs downwards and inwards, and so aid in expiration. "When the pelvis is fixed and the spine is free, the muscles of both sides acting together, the thorax is inclined forwards, the dorsal Fig. 155.—Superficial Abdominal Layer. By this general compression of the in carrying the viscera upwards and