280 THE MUSCLES. upon the first, this muscle flexes the first phalanges also, and brings the toes toofether. As this muscle, and also the flexor accessorius and the abductors of the great and little toes, arise from the os calcis, behind the transverse joint of the foot, they all ultimately act on the metatarsus and protarsus, especially curving them downwards, and resisting strains upon the longitudinal plantar arch. The plantar fascia, fig. 129. The central portion of this fascia, very dense, flattened, and narrow behind, where it is fixed to the os calcis, but fuller, wider, and thinner in front, divides beyond the middle of the metatarsus into five bands, which are connected by transverse fibres forming the superficial transverse ligament. Each band gives off lateral slips to the sides of the heads of the metatarsal bones, and to the deep transverse ligament, and is continued onwards, to blend with the strong fibrous sheaths of the flexor tendons of the toes. The tendons of the lumbricales and interossei pass forwards between these bands. The outer and inner portions of the plantar fascia, much thinner than the central part with which they are continuous, are pro- longed over the borders of the foot, where they join with the fascia on the dorsum. The outer portion is thicker behind, and is attached to the os calcis, and also to the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone; the inner portion is the thinnest part of the fascia, and joins the internal annular liga- ment of the ankle behind. Where the central and lateral portions of the plantar fascia unite, two strong intermuscular septa pass up between the short flexor of the toes and the abductors of the great and little toes, and give off finer partitions between the other muscles, which ultimately reach the bones. The plantar fascia protects the muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels of the sole, and assists in supporting the arch of the foot; as the three superficial plantar muscles arise partly from its deep or upper surface, the hollow of the foot is increased, and the arch is additionally supported when they are in action. Fig. 130.—Muscles and Tendons on the Dorsum of the Foot, with the Annular Ligament, a, a'.