183 THE SKELETON CONSIDERED GENERALLY. pyramidal construction, already described; whereas, in quadrupeds, the dor?al and lumbar vertebrte are not so different in size, and the cervical vertebrae exhibit much variation, according to the length or shortness, the slenderness or thickness, of the neck. In place of a single, long, and slight curve in the loins and back, the human spine exhibits a triple curve, which combines strength, elasticity, and security, with great facility of movement in the erect position, upon so comparatively small a base as the top of the sacrum. The proportionally large lumbar spines, and small upper dorsal and lower cervical spines, are associated with the presence of very powerful muscles in the loins, and less powerful ones in the neck, the head being carried in an upright position, instead of in a more or less horizontal position, as in animals; these, indeed, require not only stronger cervical muscles, but also the assistance of the elastic ligamentum nuchae to support the head, yet there is less necessity, in them, for specially powerful erector spinse muscles in the loins. The thorax, in man, as it'is in apes, is wider transversely, and not deeper from its vertebral to its sternal aspect, as in quadrupeds. In these latter, the flattening of the chest at the sides, enables the weight of the trunk and its contents, to be more easily suspended beneath the horizontally-carried vertebral column, and also permits the fore-limbs to be brought more immediately under the trunk itself. On the contrary, the lateral development of the thorax, in man, diffuses the weight of the upper part of the body better over the two lower limbs, and renders the lateral balancing of the trunk, more easy in the erect attitude; it also throws apart the upper limbs, thus con- siderably increasing their fitness for wide excursive movements. The upper limhs, themselves, are neither of about equal length with tlie lower ones, as in quadrupeds, nor much longer than the lower ones, as in apes, but shorter, smaller, and lighter than those limbs, so as to be easily and freely mobile. The openness of the shoulder-girdle behind, and the presence of the long, but light, suspensory bars or collar-bones, forming such slender means of connexion between the scapulae and the rest of the trunk, and yet thrusting the upper limbs far outwards, are specially adapted to the purposes of a prehensile limb, and altogether contra-indicate a locomotive function. The looseness of the shoulder-joint at the shallow glenoid cavity, and the complete universality of its movements, give the arm a range of motion in all directions elsewhere unequalled ; whilst the length of the whole limb, down to the points of the fingers, enables it to reach every part of the body and lower limbs, when, at least, these also concur in the attempt; no such result is attainable by the feet, except in the trained acrobat. The joints of the upper limb, all bend in the same direction, not alternately in opposite ways, as in the leg; they double up and open freely; more especially, they fold easily over the front of the trunk. The carpus is articulated in a line with the fore-arm, instead of at