38 THE BONES. all articulate with the scaphoid, by triangular and slightly concave or undula- ting surfaces elongated from above downwards. The middle cuneiform is in contact, on either side, with the internal and external cuneiform bones; and the latter, again, on its inner side, not only with tlie middle cuneiform, but by a small facet, with the side of the base of the second metatarsal bone, and on its outer side, by an oval facet, with the cuboid bone. All the articular surfaces concerned in these joints, with the exception of those of tlie first metatarsal and the internal cuneiform bone, which are sliglitly concavo-convex, are nearly plane or flat. Those in front of and behind the cuneiform bones, are inclined somewhat backwards and downwards ; and these bones themselves, placed on a lower level than the scaphoid behind them, prolong the slope of the instep, downwards and forwards, to the metatarsal region of the foot. The dorsal surface of the internal cuneiform is narrow, and slants inwards very rapidly ; that of the middle cuneiform, rectangular and flattened, is placed opposite the highest part of the scaphoid, and stands higher than the rest; that of the external cuneiform, oblong and broader, slopes more gra- dually outwards and downwards, to the cuboid bone. The inner subcutaneous surface of the internal cuneiform, is rhomboidal in outline, and is very deejj, much deeper than that of the scaphoid, and presents in front and below, a smoother part over which the tibialis anticus tendon glides. The outer surface, as we have seen, articulates not only with the middle cuneiform, but in front of this, by a small facet, with the side of the base of the second metatarsal bone. Its plantar surface is much broader than the dorsal, so that, in regard to this cuneiform bone, the thin edge of the wedge is turned up- wards, whilst, in the other two, it is turned downwards; this surface, in front and towards its inner border, is roughened for the insertion of a portion of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and behind presents a prominent tubercle for a portion of the tibialis posticus tendon; it also receives fibres from the tendon of the peroneus longus. The plantar surfaces of the middle and external cuneiform bones form narrower ridges, which are seen, deeply sunk, between the internal cuneiform and the cuboid bone ; they receive slips from the tibialis posticus tendon. The flexor brevis pollicis muscle partly arises from the plantar surface of the external cuneiform bone. The cuboid bone, figs. 7, 8, 10, occupies the outer side of the foot, in a line with the os calcis behind, and fills up the triangular interval, bounded in front by the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, on the inner side by fhe outer surface of the external cuneiform and the outer end of the scaplioid, and behind l)y the os calcis. With the last-named bone, it articulates by an undulating sm-fiice, sending a sort of spur-shaped process, from its inner and lower angle, beneath the os calcis. With tlie other bones, it articulates by more or less plane surfaces, but frequently it is connected with the scaphoid by ligamentous bands only. The articular surface for the fourth and fifth