94 THE BONES. and muscles. Most of the latter are situated at the hack of the spine. To the rows of transverse and spinous processes are fixed many short, both straight and oblique, muscular slips, which constitute the deepest layer of the vertebral muscles. The transverse processes afford insertion, throughout, to the longis- simus dorsi muscle and its cervical prolongations, and give origin, in the back, to the levatores costarum and to the complexus, and some of those in the neck to the levator anguli scapulae. The spinous processes, as might be expected, give rise to many muscles, viz. to the longissimus and spinalis dorsi from the lumbar spines, to the two serrati postici from certain spines in the loins and back, and from the lowest in the neck, to the splenius colli and splenius capitis in the back and lowest part of the neck, to the latissimus dorsi from all the lumbar and the six lower dorsal spines, to the two rhom- boid muscles from the five upper dorsal and seventh cervical spines, and to the trapezius from the last cervical and all the dorsal spines. At the upper part of the neck, the obliquus capitis inferior, and the rectus capitis pos- ticus major, arise from the spine of the axis; the rectus capitis posticus minor, from the posterior arch of the atlas. At the sides of the spine, the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdo- minis, and the quadratus lumborum are attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae; the three scaleni muscles and also the obliquus superior, the rectus capitis lateralis and recti antici major and minor, are connected with the transverse processes of certain cervical vertebrae. In front of the spine, the psoas magnus is attached to the bodies and transverse processes of the last dorsal, and all the lumbar vertebrae, and the psoas parvus to the body of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae ; the pillars of the diaphragm are connected with the front of the three or four upper lumbar vertebrae; whilst, lastly, in the neck, the longus colli is at- tached to the bodies or transverse processes of the two upper dorsal, and of six of the cervical vertebrae. The Veetebkal Column considered as a whole. In considering the general form of the vertebral column or spine, it is desirable to include its immoveable sacral and coccygeal portion, as well as its moveable part. "Viewed from the front, fig. 64, or from behind, fig. 65, the entire spine forms a vertical column, which theoretically and artistically, may be regarded as perfectly upright, but which, in fact, most frequently presents a long and gentle lateral dorsal curve, opposite the third, fourth and fifth vertebrae, having its concavity turned towards the left side, and compensated by a slight lumbar curve, in the opposite direction. This deviation is said to be due to the long-continued preferential use of the right upper limb.