268 THE MUSCLES. The Proper Fascia.—This firm and somewhat tense membrane, composed of white fibrous tissue, arranged, in its stronger parts, in intersecting layers, or in very dense and close shining bands, forms an almost continuous covering over the whole body. It is thicker on the back than on the front of the trunk, and much thicker on the outer than on the inner side of the limbs; it is thickest in the soles of the feet and palms of the hands, where it forms the plantar and palmar fasciae. This fascia not only holds the muscles together, but, also, gives off firm partitions between the several layers of the muscles, and others between the muscles themselves ; these latter constitute the intermuscular septa, and, in the limbs especially, the sheaths of the muscles. The former not only separate, but give partial attachment to adjacent muscles; the latter prevent displacements of the muscles, and confine them to cer- tain planes or channels, as, for example, is seen in the case of the sartorius, fig. 141, the rectus abdominis, fig. 166, and the erector spinee, fig. 152, Both kinds would appear to brace the muscles together, and so support them in action. Those parts of the fascia, which merely cover in the muscles, are named aponeuroses of in- vestment, such, for example, as the fascia in front of the arm and forearm, fig. 124 ; but those which give attachment to muscles also, are called aponeuroses of origin, such as the temporal aponeurosis, fig. 186, the vertebral aponeurosis, fig. 152, or aponeuroses of insertion, such as the fascia lata of the thigh, fig. 145, and the aponeurotic slip of the biceps Some aponem'oses or fasciae serve hot h for investment and attachment, as that of the latissimus dorsi, fig. 167, which covers the ei'ector spinae, and that of the extensor muscles in the leg and forearm. Beneath the fascia, the interspaces between the muscles are occupied by the larger blood-vessels and nerves, or by a little fat.. About the wrist and ankle, the deep fascia is strengthened, and forms the annular liga- ments, figs. 131, 132,182, 185, and the so-called retinacula, which are fastened to the bones, and keep the tendons in their proper grooves. Fig. sliowinu' ilie Proper Fascia of a part of the arm and forearm, with the Subcutaneous Veins resting upon it, the superficial fascia and tlie skin having been removed. The oblique oflPset from the tendon of the biceps is also shown. muscle of the arm, figs. 124, 166,