47 THE BONES OF THE LEG-. above its lower end, it is, as seen from its outer or inner side, sliglitly arclied forwards. It is, in the greater part of its extent, three-sided, its surfaces, named posterior, external, and internal, meeting each other along three edges, named anterior, external and internal; its cross section is accordingly, for tlie most part, triangular, but this form is lost at the upper larger end, and also at the lower end, the bone in each situation becoming especially expanded transversely, in the latter situation being even quadrangular on a section. The thinnest part of this bone, namely, at about one-fourth of its length from the lower end, has to support the weiglit of the whole body. Of its three surfaces, the posterior, fig. 14, is marked by a prominent oblique line for the origin of a portion of the soleus muscle, above which, is the triangular surface for the insertion of the popliteus muscle, and, below, are the surfaces for the tibialis posticus and the long flexor muscle of the toes, the former lying nearest to the fibula. This part of the back of the tibia is thus entirely con- cealed ; lower down, where it becomes smooth, it is also covered by the above- named muscles, and by the flexor longus pollicis muscle. The external siu'- face, figs, 13, 15, is directed a little forwards so as to look across the front of the fibula; it is excavated for about the upper half or two-thirds of its length, for the reception and attachment of the tibialis anticus muscle; but, at its lower end, it looks directly forwards, and becomes broad, rounded and smooth for the passage of the tendons of this and other muscles, as they pro- ceed to the foot. The internal and broadest surface, fig. 16, smooth and convex, is directed a little forwards as well as inwards; at its upper part, it widens out, and turns somewhat more forwards, and is thinly covered by the expanded tendons of the semi-tendinosus, gracilis, and sartorius muscles, which descend from the thigh, and are here attached to its somewhat rough- ened surface, the gracilis being higher up, the semi-tendinosus lower down, and the sartorius covering the two. Below the tendinous expansions, this surface becomes entirely subcutaneous, being covered, in addition to its peri- osteum, only by fascia and skin. It continues subcutaneous to the lower end of the bone, gradually turning so as to look directly inwards. This surface is the largest subcutaneous bony surface met with in the body; it is, like all such surfaces, comparatively smooth, free from prominences, ridges or depres- sions, slightly rounded or convex from border to border, and even undulating in its form,—in short, altogether unlike the surfaces of bone which are covered by, or give origin to, muscles, being so gently modelled in its general and de- tailed shape, as to readily compose with the rounded contours and surfaces of the adjacent muscles, notwithstanding its own rigidity of substance. Of the three edges or borders of the tibia, the external one, fig. 15, turned towards the fibula, reaches from near the outer part of the head almost along the whole length of the bone ; it is very sharp, especially at the middle of the bone, for the attachment of the strong interosseous membrane.