295 THE MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. The Muscles of the Thigh. The numerous large muscles which surround the femur, may be con- veniently arranged in groups, according to their obvious uses, when they are in free action from above downwards. These are an extensor group, which serves to extend the leg at the knee joint; an adductor group, one marked action of which, is to adduct the thigh or draw it inwards towards or over the opposite limb; an adducent-flexor group, which both adducts the thigh, and flexes the leg at the knee joint; a flexor group, which essentially flexes the leg ; a rotator group, which rotates the thigh bone outwards ; a gluteal group, which extends, abducts and rotates the thigh; and, lastly, a muscle, associated with the gluteal group, and specially connected with the fascia of the thigh. But all these gTOups contain muscles, which have additional and different actions. Thus, one of the extensors and all the adductors and adducent-flexors of the leg, co-operate in flexing the thigh upon the trunk. Moreover, all the muscles, without exception, when operating from their lower attachments as fixed points, in more or less forced actions, have their special uses. Thus, the extensors of the leg serve to erect and steady the thigh bone upon the head of the tibia; the adductors of the thigh prevent the pelvis from falling outwards over the head of the femur; the adducent-flexors of the leg with one of the extensors, prevent it falling backwards ; the flexors of the leg, from tilting forwards; the rotators of the femur, roll or swing the pelvis inwards; the gluteal muscles support it behind and at the outer side, and roll it inwards or outwards; whilst the associated gluteal muscle of the fascia, also steadies the pelvis in front and on the outer side, and rolls it outwards. The Extensor Group, figs. 139, 140. This group, which covers the front and sides of the whole shaft of the femur, consists, on the outer side, of the vastus extemus, on the inner and anterior aspect, of the united vastus intemus and the crureus, and, in front, of the rectus femoris. These muscles, ending below in a common tendon of insertion on the patella, are named the triceps extensor of the leg, sometimes the quadriceps extensor, the vastus intemus and the crureus being then regarded as separate muscles. Vastus extemus, the outer and largest portion of the triceps extensor, figs. 139, 140, 144, 146, Concealed for a short distance above, but super- ficial in the rest of its extent; pointed at its upper end, but soon becoming broad and thick, it finally appears flatter and thinner, its fleshy part not reaching so low as the vastus internus; nearly vertical on the outer surface of the thigh. By a broad superficial aponeurosis, covering three fourths of the muscle, from the root of the neck of the femur, the front and outer side of the base of the greater trochanter, the line leading thence to the linea aspera.