THE MUSCLES. 310 from the ilium, above, to the outer side of the tibia and to the fibula, below, it forms the so-named ilio-tibial band, fig. 146, which is so firm as to flatten the vastus externus, and descends, almost like a tendon, on the outer side of the knee, in front of the tendon of the biceps muscle. It is into this part, that the upper portion of the gluteus maximus, and the proper tensor muscle of the fascia, are inserted above. Tensor vagince femoris, figs. 140-146, Superficial; short, flat but thick, narrow above, widening below, and ending along an oblique line, its anterior border being much longer than the posterior one ; obliquely down- wards, outwards and backwards, in the upper and outer part of the thigh, behind and outside the upper ends of the sartorius, rectus femoris, and vastus externus, and in front of the gluteus medius, being, in fact, an offshoot or associate of the gluteal group. A small surface on the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, anterior superior spinous process, close to the origin of the sartorius, and upper part of the notch below that process fascia lata, by a thin sheet of tendinous fibres interposed between two layers of that fascia, in front of and, for a short distance, below the greater trochanter, opposite the attachment of the gluteus maximus to that fascia. Acting on and through the fascia lata, it tightens that membrane, as its name implies, and thus braces and supports tlie subjacent muscles ; it then abducts, even flexes, and rotates the thigh inwards. In standing, it helps to stiffen the knee joint; and, acting from below, it steadies the pelvis on the femur, flexes it, and rotates it towards its own side. The great number and extensive distribution of the muscles which siuround the ball-and-socket joint of the hip, cannot fail to attract notice. SUEFACE-FOEMS DEPENDENT ON THE MuSCLES OF THE FoOT, LeG AND Thigh. The Foot.—The deep muscles in the sole of the foot, as elsewhere, clothe the bones, and fill up the intervals between them. Of the superficial muscles, the abductor with the flexor of the little toe produce the most marked effects on the surface, giving rise to a corresponding, narrow, rounded elevation along the outer border of the sole, filling up the comparatively flat bony arch, on that side, and bringing down its actual contour to a level with the ground, in the standing posture. The abductor of the great toe, in like manner, covers the inner deeply arched border of the sole ; but the muscle is braced up closely against the bones, and its particular form is not quite so apparent. The remaining superficial muscle, the short flexor of the toes, is so bound over by the dense central portion of the plantar fascia, that its individual form is subdued, the fascia itself here determining a somewhat flattened or