THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM CONSIDERED GENERALLY. 421 the upper part of the spine also to fall forwards, but the whole trunk to sink, backwards or forwards, at the hips, and, both the knees and ankle joints to become doubled up. The maintenance of the erect attitude, is, therefore, entirely due to the constant exercise of the muscular force brought into use, in early life, by persevering efforts of the will, accompanied by not a few failures and mishaps, until practice makes the child perfect; and, at last, it is governed by an unconscious automatic control, exercised over many co-ordinated muscular movements. It is secured in the following manner. The muscles in the sole of the foot, besides supporting its arches, fasten the grasp of the toes on the sustaining surface, and steady the hold of the longitudinal tarso-metatarsal arch upon it; in this, the flexor muscles, which descend from the back of the leg, assist. The short and long extensors of the toes, pull back the first phalanges, and so enable the tips of the toes to be brought down upon the ground. Acting from below, the flexors at the back of the leg, with the extensors in front, and the peronei on the outer side, fix the astragalus on the scaphoid, balance it on the os calcis, and support the tibia upright upon it; the flexors are powerfully aided by the muscles of the calf, which, fixed below to the os calcis, extend or bring backwards the tibia on the astragalus, and prevent the weight of the body from doubling the one bone forward, upon the other, at the ankle. In the thigh, the triceps extensor, acting from the tibia through the ligamentum patellae, draws the femur forwards and keeps it extended and upright upon the leg, and thus straightens the limb at the knee. Above this, the remaining muscles of the thigh, including the adductor, adducent flexor, flexor, rotator and gluteal groups, with the tensor vaginae femoris, the iliacus and the psoas muscles, ascending on every side of the thigh, in the form of a hollow inverted cone, having the femur in its axis and the acetabulum in the centre of its base, and being attached all round to every point of the broad outer surface and promi- nent borders of the expanded innominate bone, act with great leverage, and thus guard and balance the pelvis and the rest of the body, upon the moveable hip joint. In this way, the pelvis is kept in equilibrio, in all directions ; but, to save the expenditure of muscular force, and to diminish fatigue, the pelvis, in standing quite upright, is allowed to lunge backwards on the heads of the thigh bones, until the movement is checked, in part, at least, by the strong ilio-femoral and capsular ligaments in front of the hip joint; the knee, more- over, is jerked back, so as to be over-extended, and its internal, posterior and lateral ligaments tightened; whilst, at the ankle, the muscles alone maintain the body in what, deprived of their aid, would be a condition of unstable equilibrium. Above the solid region of the pelvis, the remainder of the trunk is balanced from the front and sides, by the muscles of the abdomen and the quadrati lumborum; whilst from behind, it is extended and kept upright, by the erectores spinas and the deeper seated vertebral muscles. The neck is sustained by the numerous cervical muscles, anterior, lateral