THE BONES OF THE FACE. 169 symphysis, or line of union of the two primitive halves of the bone. In man, the symphysis menti is characteristically vertical; the mental eminence itself may even project beyond it, in well-marked bones. On either side of the sym- physis, is a slight depression, named the mental fossa, from which the levator menti muscle arises. A short distance outside this, is a foramen for a nerve. The alveolar portion of the lower jaw, placed above the external and internal oblique lines, is veidened, more so behind than in front, to contain, along its horse-shoe shaped border, the nearly vertical sockets or alveoli, into which the fangs of the lower teeth are inserted. These alveoli have thicker sides than those of the upper jaw, and, like them, produce slight elevations and depressions on the outer surface of the bone. The lower part of the buccinator muscle is inserted just outside the sockets of the hinder teeth. The teeth, eight in number in each half of the adult jaw, are, as in the upper jaw, two incisors in front, then one caidne, followed by two bicuspids or small molars, and completed by the three large molars. The wisdom teeth are the last molars in each jaw. In advanced life, as happens to the upper jaw, the alveoli of the lower jaw become absorbed, the teeth dropping out, so that only the dense lower portion of the bone, above the two oblique lines, remains. The complete alveolar borders of the upper and lower jaws, form, with the teeth, two parabolic or hyperbolic arches, named the dental arches. On comparing them, it is seen that the upper one, being rather deeper, a little more spread out, and less vertical, forms a rather broader and more projecting horse-shoe, than the lower one ; so that the upper teeth, which, on the whole, are also larger than the lower, project a little beyond them on each side, and decidedly overlap them in front; hence, the lower teeth shut in behind the upper ones. If the edges of the incisor teeth of the two jaws constantly met, they would more rapidly suffer from the effects of attrition. The teeth in man, as distinguished from those of animals, form perfectly continuous rows in both jaws, being of nearly equal height, and without any gaps, or so- called cliastemmata, between them. Their nearly perpendicular setting is also characteristic, as compared with the oblique direction of the teeth of most animals. The relative size, position, and individual forms and characters of the front teeth, demand attention, for they are frequently exposed to view, especially during certain emotions. These variations in the size and shape of the teeth, afford a good example of the mode in which organic forms, though repeated, are so differently modelled as to cease to be identical. In art, the repetition of the same form, for all the teeth exposed to view in the laughing mouth, gives this not only a formal, but an inhuman aspect. The four upper incisors are much larger than the four lower ones, and are some- what less vertical, being inclined more forwards than the lower ones; they are so broad, as to pass nearly as far as the outer margin of the lower canine