158 THE BONES. voice; for, when they are obstructed, that resonance is diminished, and the vocal sounds are 'damped' in the head, the sensation being felt by the in- dividual concerned, as well as being noticeable by others. There are similar air- cavities in the cranial or other bones of animals, which lighten the portion of the skeleton, in which they occur, as is most obvious in the case of the long bones of birds of powerful flight. But, in the cranium, they accompany modifications of the bony framework for mechanical purposes, and this is the true ex- planation of their existence. Extreme examples are met with in the elephant, and the toucan, in which the enormously expanded frontal and other sinuses, enable the cranium to support sufficiently large facial bones, whereon may be carried the heavy tusks of the one, and the huge bills of the other. In man, likewise, these expansions of the frontal bone, undoubtedly serve the mechanical purpose of increasing the anterior projection of the base of the cranium, for the attachment of the subjacent facial framework, and especially of that part of it which belongs to the nose, and to the inner border of the orbit, so as to form a broader base of support to the ascending part of the upper jaw bone, through which pressure is exercised in mastication. Their constant relation to the size of the face, is shown by many facts. Thus, they are absent in early life, when the face is relatively small, the jaws are feeble and without teeth, and the nose is less prominent; they begin to be developed first, when the features commence to expand ; they are smaller in women than in men, in whom, the features are larger and more prominent, every part of the bony framework of the face, including the upper and lower jaws, being of greater size; they diminish in old age, when the face and jaws also waste ; and, lastly, they are small, or, in some instances, absent, even though there be slight external eminences, in certain races, in which, as in the Australians, the face and nose are very diminutive. They can have no special relation to any local development of the cerebrum, but they vary exceedingly in size and pro- minence in different individuals, being, as a rule, larger, and more marked, in powerfully built men. In advanced life, the glabella sometimes becomes relatively prominent, probably owing to the subsidence of the nasal and super- ciliary eminences. Without much external prominence, the cavities of the frontal sinuses may be large, in old age, in consequence of the inner table of the skull receding as the brain wastes. Somewhat below the middle of each half of the exposed portion of the frontal bone, above the swperciliary eminences, and separated from them by a slight furrow, are the proper frontal eminences, • . These correspond with the two centres of ossification of the bone, which remain more or less prominent, even when the bone has grown to its full size. They are there- fore quite similar in nature to the parietal eminences already described, and have no direct cerebral signification. As a rule, the development of the entire frontal bone coincides, generally, with that of the anterior lobe of the