THE BONES. 40 ance, in reference to the form of tliis part of the foot; a portion of the tibialis posticus tendon is inserted into it. The outer abrupt border of the bone, thick and rough, overhangs the adjacent margin of the cuboid bone, with which it is sometimes articulated, by a small facet, and is always firmly attached to it by ligaments. In front, the scaphoid presents an oblong, articular surface, convex in its general form, but marked off, by two nearly perpendicu- lar ridges, into three imdulating facets elongated from above downwards, for articulation with the cuneiform bones; behind, is a deep transversely oval articular concavity, broader in its outer half, for articulation with the astra- galus. The OS calcis or caloaneum, figs. 7 to 10, the largest and, by far, the longest of the tarsal bones, and therefore the largest bone in the foot, is of great relative size in Man. Elongated and flattened at the sides, and ex- panded posteriorly, it occupies the hinder and lower portion of the foot, is placed obliquely to the leg, and forms the heel. Its vmder surface presents behind, a broad rough prominent part, terminating anteriorly by two flat tuberosities, outer and. inner, which are separated by a small depression. These afford attachment to the strong plantar fascia, and likewise give origin to several of the short muscles of the foot, namely the abductor of the little toe, that of the great toe, the short flexor of the toes, and the flexor accessorius. The inner and larger tuberosity, specially concerned in bearing the weight of the body, is covered by a closely adherent pad of thick skin and fat. In front of these tuberosities, the bone inclines upwards, forwards, and outwards, becomes narrower and excavated, so as to recede from the integument, and give space for, and attachment to, ligaments, muscles, and fascia. The fore-part of this surface presents a prominence named the tubercle. In front, the os calcis, occupying the outer side of the tarsus, comes into contact, by a triangular and undulating articular facet, with the posterior surface of the cuboid bone, which hooks imder it slightly at its inner corner. Behind, it expands into a broad and deep projecting mass, longer from above down than from side to side, and wider below than above, which extends, obliquely backwards and downwards, beyond the leg bones, and forms the characteristic prominence of the heel. The tendo Achillis descending from the muscles of the calf, passes over the Tipper part of this surface, which is smooth and polished, and in the recent state covered with cartilage. The tendon is attached to its lower half, chiefly above the inner tuberosity. The plantaris tendon also usually reaches the upper and inner part of the back of the os calcis. The outer surface of the os calcis is comparatively flat and subcutaneous; near its middle, is a well-marked eminence, the hinder part of which serves for the attachment of the middle portion of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; whilst on the fore-part is a ridge or narrow tubercle, named the peroneal tubercle, to which is attached a portion of the external annular ligament; this tubercle separates