THE BONES OF THE CEANIUM. 161 portion, it gives rise to the retrahens aurem muscle. The most prominent outer part of the mastoid process is subcutaneous. In front of the auditory foramen, and jutting, at first outwards and then forwards, from below the curved oblique line on the squamous portion of the bone, is a flattened process, named the ^y^'oma {^vyco/na, a hand) or zygomatic process, z, which, becoming more slender, passes nearly horizontally forwards, to join, by an overlapping, sinuous and slightly jagged edge, the hinder portion of the corresponding malar bone, M. In this way, it forms a sort of flying buttress or free arch, called the zygomatic arch, which serves here to connect the bones of the cranium and face. The temporal muscle passes down on the inner side of this arch, to reach the lower jaw bone, the muscle moving freely under it, and playing posteriorly, in a deep channel formed on the upper surface of the broad base of the zygoma. The upper thin free border of the zygoma forms part of the margin of the temporal fossa, which, in front of this, is limited by the hinder border of the malar bone ; and, as already stated, in the rest of its extent, in front, above, and behind, by the curved temporal ridges, traceable continuously on the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones, back to the root of the zygoma again, fig. 61. The strong temporal fascia is attached to this border of the zygoma, as well as to the other parts of the margin of the fossa. The outer and convex surface of the zygoma is subcutaneous, the lower border and the inner surface give attach- ment to the masseter muscle. The base of the zygoma, spreading out widely and horizontally from the squamous portion of the bone, is attached to it by three ridges, called roots one of these is continuous backwards with the temporal ridge already described; the two others pass directly inwards, and being connected by a concave plate of bone, form the roof and anterior and posterior borders of the outer part of a s-hallow fossa, named the glenoid cavity, fig. 61, g, the inner part of which, extends beneath the squamous portion of the bone. It is oval, with its longest diameter directed inwards and backwards, so that a line continuous with it, would, if prolonged, impinge on the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. This is the socket for the corresponding condyle of the lower jaw, the long axis of which condyle has a similar direction ; in the joint between them, is an inter-articular fibro-cartilage. The anterior part alone of the glenoid cavity is articular ; it presents a thick and rounded border in front, named the eminentia articularis. The hinder non-articular part ot the cavity is marked off from the fore part by a transverse fissure, the Glaserian fissure, which indicates a primitive separation between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. This part of the cavity, is filled by a small piece of the parotid gland; its inner and posterior wall is formed by the vaginal process, a plate of bone so called, because it ensheaths the styloid process already mentioned. A small tubercle beneath M