THE VERTEBEAL COLUMN. 95 which gives rise to a leaning over of the trunk to the left side, and to a counter curve in the loins. This lateral dorsal curve has been found to take an opposite direction in a left-handed person. The vertebral column, as seen in front, is not of uniform width throughout its moveable part, being widest in the lumbar, naiTower in the cervical, and narrowest in the dorsal region; in its immoveable part, the sacrum is wider, and the coccyx narrower than the widest and narrowest regions of its moveable portion. The central part of the column, which is composed of the bodies of the vertebrge, and, in the moveable part, of the intervertebral discs also, piled one upon the other, does not diminish uniformly in width from the sacrum upwards and downwards, but presents four pyramidal portions, superimposed one upon the other. The lowest pyramid, inverted and nearly complete in form, consists of the conjoined sacrum and coccyx; it, at first, gradually, and then, rapidly, diminishes from above downwards, as the weight it has to bear, and the muscular force it has to resist, decrease in the same direction ; the widest part of this pyramid, the upper part of the sacrum, is the solid mass, which enters into the formation of the pelvis. The second pyramid, erect, and truncated at its summit, is composed of the bodies of all the lumbar vertebrae, and of the nine lower dorsal vertebrte; for, up to the fourth dorsal vertebra, the central part of the vertebral column gradually diminishes in width, and thus affords more lateral space in the thoracic cavity, on each side. From the third dorsal to the seventh or lowest cervical vertebra, a third pyramid is observable, for the bodies of the vertebrse here again widen gradually to form a broader base at the bottom of the neck, for the support and balance of the head. The fourth pyramid lies between the seventh and the second cervical vertebrae, in which part of the neck, the bodies become gi-adually narrower upwards, as they have less and less weight to carry; the first cervical vertebra, or atlas, as already stated, has no body, but presents here its wide though thin anterior arch. On viewing the spine from behind, fig. 65, it is seen that the transverse processes spread out more widely, on each side, in the lower part of the lumbar region, gradually less so, as high as the twelfth or lowest dorsal vertebra, again project backwards as well as outwards, and are much enlarged at their ends, up to the first dorsal, and then once more diminish in lateral proj ection, as high as the axis; the atlas, however, suddenly becomes as wide as the highest dorsal vertebra, thus overlapping the more slender column beneath, and leading the eye to the still broader crowning mass of the head, which it supports. These differences are associated with differences in the size of the muscles in each region, and with the provision of proper support to the ribs. The two series of articular processes, right and left, as seen from behind, are wide apart at the lower end of the lumbar region, but approach each other rather rapidly, up to the highest lumbar vertebra; from this point, they gradually become wider apart