THE MUSCLES. 362 proceeding partly from the exterual condyle and condyloid ridge of the humerus, and partly from the back of the ulna and radius. The anterior group descends on the front of the fore-arm, wrist, and hand, and is essentially & flexor group, but, with it, are associated t^ffo jpronator muscles of the radius ; the posterior group descends on the back of the fore-arm, wrist, and hand, and is essentially an extensor group, but with it, are associated two supinator muscles of the radius. These two double groups may be separately ex- amined. The Pronator and Flexor Group, figs. 171 to 174.—This includes two pronators, one deep, the other superficial, namely, the pro- nator quadratus, and the pronator teres; three flexors of the wrist, which are all superficial, namely, the radial flexor, the palmaris longus, and the ulnar flexor of the wrist; and, lastly, three long flexors of the fingers and thumb, which are more deeply seated, namely, the sublime flexor and the deep flexor of the fingers, and the long flexor of the thumb. Pronator quadratus, fig. 171, Deep; small, flat, quadrilateral; transversely, or some- what obliquely, from ulna to radius, in contact with those bones and the interosseous membrane. Front and inner border of the lower part of the shaft of the ulna broad anterior surface of the lower fourth of the radius. It rotates the radius inwards upon the ulna, pronating the hand with the former bone. Pronator radii teres, figs. 171, 17 4, Super- ficial, except at its deep origin, and its insertion; spindle-shaped, as its name implies, and having a larger superficial, and a smaller deep origin; Fig. 171.—The Pronators, and ^vijQvielv downwards and outwards, across the the Flexors of the Wrist. ^ j front of the fore-arm, being the highest of the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, and forming the inner border of the hollow at the bend of the elbow. Larger superficial part, inner condyle of the humerus, by a tendon common to it and the flexors of the wrist, epi-trochlear ridge by fleshy fibres, fascia of the fore-arm and adjacent intermuscular septum, smaller deep part, inner side of coronoid process of the ulna, by a thin tendinous slip rough ridge on the middle of the outer