THE SKULL CONSIDERED AS A WHOLE. 177 most variable of the human skeleton, or, at all events, the parts in which the effects of variation, and, it may be added, of a want of symmetry between the two sides, are most apparent. Setting aside such acquired or accidental cranial and facial peculiarities, as depend upon disorders of development, on disease, artificial treatment, or injury, such, for example, as are seen in idiots, in hydrocephalic or otherwise deformed heads, in cases of premature synostosis, or junction of the sutures, and in heads which have been subjected to various kinds of pressure during the period of growth, there still remains an extraordinary individual tenden cy to variation in both size and form, in the cranium and the face. No two crania, indeed, are exactly alike. The capacity may be large, moderate, or small; the general form may be long, broad, or high ; the forehead may be low or lofty, upright or retiring, wide or narrow, square or tapering upwards, smooth or modelled with massive forms above the brows ; the vertex may be high or depressed, flat, or thrown up into a median ridge; the occipital region and protuberance may be pointed and narrow, or flat, broad and depressed ; the mastoid processes may be large and prominent, or the reverse; the temporal region may be full, flat or sunken; the zygomata, boldly arched, or shallow and receding; the malar eminences, broad or narrow, and the cheeks, accordingly, high or flat; the nasal bridge may be short or long, elevated or sunk ; the transverse diameters of the orbits, usually inclined downwards and outwards, may be horizontal, or perhaps even inclined upwards, at their outer ends ; the angles of the lower jaw may be obtuse, or nearly rectangular, smooth at the side, or strongly everted, and roughened at their lower edge; the whole face may retire towards the cranium, or it may project slightly, or in a very marked degree, from it; the lower jaw may be slender and short, or deep and long, the chin may be prominent or retiring, square or pointed, and the front teeth, implanted, either vertically or more or less obliquely, in the alveolar borders; lastly, even the size of the teeth may greatly vary. These and other innumerable modifications necessarily produce great effect on the physiognomy of individuals. Certain peculiarities belong to families, and are transmitted to perhaps remote generations, after a temporary disappearance in one or more. If some of them occur, constantly and cha- racteristically, amongst a nvmiber of families, they furnish signs or marks of typical importance, in reference to tribe and race. Their intimate study is the task of the cranioscopist, ethnologist, and anthropologist, rather than that of the anatomist. Their consideration, as well as the various results of cranio- metrical measurements, and triangulation of the face, must be reserved, with the subject of Proportion, for a future occasion. The influence of growth on the forms of the cranium and face is too remarkable to be here left unnoticed; although a fuller treatment of this question, would be more appropriate in a treatise on Evolution. Both the N