352 THE MUSCLES. angle of the scapula. The elongated elliptical tendinous plane, ^, formed at the back of the neck by the two trapezii, is always observable as an oval depression on the surface, especially, however, when the lateral fleshy portions of those muscles are in action, as when the head is thrown back, or both arms are raised above the head. The small, flat, triangular tendon of the trapezius, which passes over the root of the spinous process of the scapula, produces a similarly shaped depression amongst the adjacent fleshy masses, which readily informs the eye of the position of that part of the scapula, however much that very moveable bone may be shifted in position; from this point down- wards, to the inferior tendon at the apex of the muscle, the outer and lower edge of the trapezius may be traced, when it is in play, either as a waving, or as a straight border, according to the vigour of its action. It may be added, that the plane of the entire trapezius itself, when its muscular fasciculi are quiescent, undulates in accordance with the forms of the subjacent masses, but when these fasciculi are in action, the muscle asserts its own forms, both fleshy and tendinous. The superficial triangular portion of the infraspinatus, fig. 167, is often seen as a full prominent form, marked by several oblique linear depres- sions, due to tendinous bands between the muscular bundles; an evident intermuscular marking exists between the infra-spinatus and the teres minor, and another between that and the teres major. The entire scapular promi- nence changes its position with the bone itself, and its contained or subordi- nate forms are carried to and fro with it, fig. 167. As the scapula itself rotates upwards and forwards, the vertical scapular furrow, situated along the base of that bone, between the insertion of the greater rhomboid and the origin of the infra-spinatus, assumes an oblique direction downwards and outwards ; whereas the oblique scapular fmTOw and the acromion depression, situated between the insertion of the trapezius and the origin of the deltoid, become much more oblique, and their surfaces are turned backwards and upwards, instead of nearly directly upwards. The teres major obscures the lower angle and the axillary border of the bone, but both may yet be traced, carried forwards towards the armpit, of which that muscle itself essentially forms the very thick posterior border. The latissimus dorsi, the largest stratum of muscular substance in the body, sweeps over the lumbar and lower thoracic regions, fig. 167, reveal- ing through its thinner parts the mass of the erector spinae, and, sometimes, that of the serratus posticus inferior, and then, higher up, the curved and con- vex forms of the ribs, and the slightly depressed intercostal muscular planes between them. Its anterior thicker border, traceable from the hinder part of the iliac crest and from the lower ribs, forms either a soft rim, or a more prominent rounded edge, crossing obliquely upwards and forwards over the ex- ternal oblique and the great serratus, to the hinder border of the axilla, where it holds the teres major in its embrace, fig. 166, supports and strengthens the