THE BONES OF THE FOOT. 39 metatarsal bones, is divided by ao oblique ridge, passing downwards and in- wards, into two facets, an inner smaller and quadrangular, and an outer larger and triangular facet, the latter being broader transversely than vertically, and slightly concave from above downwards. The articular surface for the ex- ternal cuneiform bone, occupies only a small portion of the inner and longer side of the cuboid bone, the rest being roughened for the attachment of ligaments, sometimes, however, also articulating with the scaphoid bone. The articular surface for the os calcis behind, is oblong from side to side, and un- dulating or slightly concavo-convex; it is prolonged, at its inner angle, beneath the os calcis. The outer side of the cuboid, by far the shortest, is comparatively thin, and being free, forms a small portion of the outer border of the foot; owing to the shortness of this side, as compared with that turned towards the external cuneiform, the cuboid bone appears to be wedged in between the os calcis and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Commencing, on this border, is a notch, which ends in a deep groove, running, obliquely, in- wards and forwards, on the under surface of the bone, for the lodgment of tlie tendon of the peroneus longus muscle ; behind this groove, is a very prominent oblique ridge for the attachment of ligaments, sometimes marked by a smooth surface, against which a sesamoid bone, occasionally present in that tendon, glides. The inner border of the plantar surface gives partial origin to the flexor brevis pollicis ; and tlie plantar surface also receives an expansion from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Lastly, the upper surface of the cuboid bone, roughened and sloping downwards, outwards, and forwards, completes the framework of the foot in this situation. The scaphoid, or, as it is sometimes called, the navicular bone, figs. 7 to 10, is situated on the inner side of the foot, behind the three cuneiform bones, being placed transversely between them and the astragalus, the convex head of which is received into a deep articular concavity on the hinder surface of the scaphoid. The upper surface of the scaphoid, somewhat roughened for the attachment of ligaments, shows most plainly, the boat-like shape of the bone; it is convex from side to side, having its highest part, however, nearer to its outer than to its inner border, so that it slopes gradually, and for some dis-tance, towards its inner, but more suddenly towards its outer border; it forms the highest portion of tliis part of the tarsus, but the head of the astragalus, immediately behind it, constitutes the highest point of the instep, from which the scaphoid slopes forwards and downwards. The under surface of the scaphoid, narrower than the upper, is hollow, and roughened for the attachment of the strong ligament which partly sustains the head of the astragalus. Its inner sloping border projects prominently downwards, so as to form a remarkable tuberosity, situated on the inner border of the foot, about one inch and a half in front of the inner ankle : this tuberosity is of great import-