THE JOINTS OF THE THOEAX. 229 thick rounded cords, connected at their lower ends, which partially cross each other, with the apex of the odontoid process, and attached, above, close to the condyles of the occipital bone. These odontoid ligaments, and also the trans- verse atlanto-axial ligament, are covered behind, within the spinal canal, by a continuation of the posterior common ligament, which passes up from the axis to the margin of the foramen magnum. The OccipitO-atlantal Joints.—The concavo-convex gliding joints between the articular processes of the atlas and the occiput, are connected by thin loose capsules. An anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, consisting of a broad membrane, strengthened in the middle, extends fi'om the anterior arch of the atlas, to the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the fora- men magnum. An equally wide, posterior occipito-atlantal ligament is at- tached below to the posterior arch of the atlas, and above to the occipital bone, just behind the foramen mag-num. Two short strong lateral inter-trans- verse ligaments, one on each side, complete the means of connexion between the atlas and the skull. Movements.-—The i-otatory movements and the nodding movements of the head, depend on the mechanism of the atlauto-axial and occipito-atlantal joints, the rotatory movements occm-ring at the former, and the nodding move- ments at the latter. The rotatory movements are obviously checked by the ligaments named after their use ; but those ligaments aid the others situated behind the odontoid process, in restraining the forward nodding motion as well. The strong transverse atlanto-axial ligament keeps the odontoid process in its place, and prevents pressure on the spinal cord. Many combinations of the movements proper to the joints between the head and the two upper cer- vical vertebrce, with movements belonging to the neck itself lower down, con- stantly occur, as in listening, looking in different directions, or in meditation. Direct lateral movements of inclination of the head, are of this kind. Eota- tion, again, is hardly ever truly horizontal, unless with the co-operation of the cervical vertebrae generally ; for the atlanto-axial rotation is accompanied by a descent of the head on the side towards which the face is tm-ned, whereas the habitual movement is one of an upward kind towards that side. In con- sequence of the obliquity and peculiar relations of the articular surfaces on the two sides of the vertebro-cranial axis, all the free movements in this region are more or less o-raceful. The Joints op the Thorax. The CostO-Vertebral Joints.—The gliding costo-central articu- lations, between the heads of the ribs and the bodies of the vertebrae, possess a short inter-articular ligament or Jibro-cartilage, which extends from the