102 THE BONES. The twelfth rib, fig. 41, is very short and slender, slightly and nearly uni- formly curved, and has only one flattened facet on its head, for articulation with the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. It has no tubercle, and does not arti- culate with, or even touch, the transverse process of th^t vertebra. Its angle, when present, is very feebly marked and situated very far outward. The free anterior end of the rib is tapering. The eleventh rib is distinguished by similar characters; but it is much longer and larger than the twelfth, and its angle is more pronounced. The tenth rib resembles more closely those above it, but it usually has only one articular facet at its vertebral ex- tremity. The second rib has a slightly marked angle ; its shaft is not twisted, and is intermediate in character, between the first and the other ribs. The surfaces are turned more upwai'ds and more downwai'ds, than the corre- sponding surfaces of the ribs below. Near its middle, its outer surface is roughened for the attachment of a part of the serratus magnus muscle. The first rib, fig. 40, is the most peculiar of all. With the exception, sometimes, of the twelfth, it is the shortest rib; it is always the broadest, flattest, and most strongly curved. It is not twisted on its axis; its broad surfaces are turned, not outwards and inwards, but upwards and downwards, with a slight inclination forwards and backwards ; its borders are directed outwards and inwards, instead of obliquely upwards and downwards. The body is wide, especially at its anterior end; its outer border is convex and thick; its inner margin, thin and concave. Its head is small, and has but one articular facet, as it is connected with the first dorsal vertebra only; its neck is slender; its tubercle, larger and more projecting than that of the others, is situated on the external border of the rib, and is very strongly attached to the transverse process of the same vertebra, so that this rib is very firmly fixed. Its angle is very slightly marked or absent; it has no groove on its concave margin ; and, lastly, its upper surface is marked by a special ridge, with a tubercle, named the scalene tubercle, for the attachment of the anterior scalenus muscle, the middle scalenus being connected with the bone further back, and the posterior scalenus, with the back of the second rib. The upper part of the serratus magnus muscle also arises partly from the first rib. The Costal Cartilages.—These, fig. 27, are as variable amongst each other, as the ribs. They are less flattened than the ribs, having a decidedly oval section. The twelfth and eleventh merely form little short, pointed tips to their respective ribs, in the direction of which they extend. The tenth, ninth, and eighth are much longer, the eighth being the longest of the three, and, sometimes, even longer than the seventh, which is usually the longest of the whole series. These three cartilages are comparatively slender, and their narrow, tapering, upturned ends are connected with the under surface of the cartilage next above them. At a sort of angle near their costal extremity.