THE BONES. 30 THE SEPAEATE BONES. In anatomical works generally, including those intended for-artists, the de- scription of the Bones commences with that of some part of the central axis of the body, and concludes with that of the limbs. But, if the skeleton is to be regarded as a machine of absolute perfection, or as the basis of a perfect plastic form, then it is not unfitting to study its individual parts, as they are built up into an erect figure, supported on the lower limbs, with the trunk carried upon them, the upper limbs set free for prehensile or manipu- lative purposes, and the head, in which are situated the organs of the senses and that of the mind, surmounting the whole. Accordingly, in describing the Bones in detail, and likewise in the subsequent account of the individual Joints and Muscles, the order adopted in the following pages, is not ' a capite ad calcem,' but ' a calcaneo ad caput.' It has further been decided to omit all letters of reference in the Illustra- tions of the bones, except in the key figures of the skeleton, and in the re- presentations of the skull. The numerous minute points which demand the attention of the anatomist and the surgeon, necessitate such aids; but the Art-student's mind should be left unQneumbered by such unnecessary details ; and, moreover, the pure forms of the bones, represented on so small a scale, in black and white, would have been seriously marred by such references. So far as is possible, all the facts to be noted, are represented in these drawings; and, by their assistance the descriptions may be followed. The absence of letters of reference may somewhat strain the attention; but the knowledge of the forms described, will probably be as accurate, and the recollection of them more lasting, on the part of the student. To read the descriptions, with the bones themselves, would, of course, be preferable. In the accoimt of each separate bone, the points with which the muscles or tendons are connected, are invariably mentioned, as well as the attachments of almost all the ligaments. In learning the muscular attachments, much assistance will be obtained by referring to the illustrations of the muscles, in which each muscle is numbered; for those parts are so much more numerous than the bones, and so much more inaccessible to the Art-student, that they, obviously, need this special and ready means of identification. The principal figures, as well as the descriptions, of the bones, are to be understood as drawn strictly from the male skeleton. The differences observ- able in that of the female will be, hereafter, illustrated and explained. The bones of the foot, hand, and head, are drawn to a scale of two-fifths of the natural size: those of the long bones of the limbs, of the pelvic and shoulder- girdles, and trunk, are about one-third the size of nature; the separate