THE FEMALE SKELETON. 195 obliquity of the upper ribs, and the consequent lowering of the sternum and of its attached shoulder girdle, the narrowness of the female figure across the shoulders is due ; whilst the falling, or sloping, of the shoulders, and the elongated neek, as compared with the more squarely-built male form, and the shorter neck, are due to a combination of the same conditions, as well as to slight differences in the female neck itself, figs. 190, 191. In the female, the upper and lower limbs are duly proportioned, figs. 64, 66, in relation to each other ; but, as already stated, both limbs are shorter, in comparison with the trunk. The proportions of the upper limb to the lower limb, are said to be more agreeable. "When th6 arm is suspended by the side, the elbow-joint, in tl^e female, reaches only to about the level of the second lumbar vertebra, instead of to about that of the third, or midway between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, as in the male ; and, owing further to the deficiency in height of the iliac crests, there is a still more marked discrepancy between the two sexes, in the distance between the elbow and the innominate bone, in the standing position, this being much less in the male than in-the female. In the male skeleton, again, the wrist-joint of the dependent arm, descends to the level of the bottom of the tuberosity of the ischium, a little below the great trochanter of the femur, whilst, in the female, it reaches to that of the pubic symphysis; moreover, when the hand is open, the tips of the middle fingers, in the male, are opposite to the middle of the thigh, that is, lower down than in the female. The greater development of both limbs, upper as well as lower, as compared with the trunk, in man, figs. 6-i, 66, confers upon him greater mechanical advantages, as regards physical strength, both in reference to locomotive and prehensile acts ; and it is only exceptionally, as in the case of a Diana, or an Atalanta, that the female limbs may be assumed to surpass their ordinary proportions as to length. The differences in the skeleton of the male and the female, thus pointed out, show that the evolutional changes in the animal system, which manifest themselves in the development of the limbs, reach their furthest point in the male form, whilst the vegetative system con- centred in the trunk, is equally developed in the two sexes, or even more so in the female. In the arm and forearm, the bones are smaller and less marked, and the radius is straighter. The hand, figs, 75, 76, is not less differently characterised, in the female, than the foot. The carpus is proportionally long and narrow, the OS magnum especially being narrowed, so that the bones on either side of it, ai'e brought nearer together. The trapezium, in particular, is not placed so far out- wards, but is more in a line with the scaphoid, and more parallel with the trapezoid. Hence, the characteristics of the female hand, are a somewhat nearer approach to parallelism of the thumb with the fore-finger, less breadth of the hand at its base, and a smaller size of the ball of the thumb ; whilst, in the male hand, the thumb projects out more from the side of the o 2