THE MUSCLES. 278 phalanx of the great toe, in union with the tendon of the adductor of that toe. This muscle, unrepresented in the hand, adducts or approximates all the toes, and increases the curve of the transverse arch of the metatarsus. Abductor minimA dlgiti 'pedis, figs. 125, 126-128, 130-132, Superficial; elongated, rounded, conical; along the outer border of the foot. Outer tuberosity and under surface of the os calcis, plantar fascia, and adja- cent intermuscular septum outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. It is slightly attached, in its course, to the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. It acts as a flexor, as well as an abductor of the little toe. The Flexor Group, figs. 126-128.—This includes the short flexor of the little toe, the short flexor of the great toe, the accessory flexor, the lum- bricales, and the short flexor of the four outer toes. Flexor brevis poUlcls pedis, figs. 126-128, Covered behind, super- ficial in front; bifid, each half being fusiform and semi-penniform ; along the under surface of the first metatarsal bone, its two halves being separated in front, by the tendon of the long flexor of the same toe. Inner border of the cuboid bone, part of external cuneiform bone, and prolonged tendon of tibialis posticus the two sesamoid bones and corresponding borders of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, the inner half joining the abductor, and the outer half the adductor of that toe. It is a powerful flexor of the first phalanx of the great toe. Flexor brevis minimi digiti pedis, figs. 126-128, Slightly over- lapped behind, otherwise superficial; fusiform and penniform; along the under surface of the fifth metatarsal bone. Base of that metatarsal bone, and sheath of the peroneus longus muscle outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Besides flexing the little toe, it draws its meta- tarsal bone downwards and inwards. The position and course of the tendons which enter the foot from the leg, fig. 127, may now be followed. These ai'e, commencing on the inner border of the foot, the tendon of the tibialis posticus, passing forwards to the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, and sending fibrous prolongations into the sole of the foot; the tendon of the long flexor muscle of the great toe, passing forwards beneath that toe, to its last phalanx ; the tendon of the lo7ig fiexor muscle of the four outer toes, '", running obliquely forwards and outwards, and dividing into four slips, which pass beneath those toes, to their last phalanges; the tendon of the peroneus longus, figs. 125-127, running obliquely forwards and inwards, in a groove on the under side of the cuboid bone, and onwards to the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and lastly, the tendon of the peroneus brevis, fig. 127, inserted into the tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Flexor accessorius, fig. 127, Deep; flat, four-sided, with two