THE MUSCLES. 360 flexed, it begins to act as a supinator, rolling the radius, and, with it, the hand, outwards and backwards, so as to turn the palm of the hand upwards. The most complete action of the biceps takes place, when the arm is raised and brought forwards, the fore-arm is flexed, and the hand supinated; but it may be brought into use, in many combinations of these movements. In striking downwards with a dagger, held in the prone hand, the muscle is in less powerful action, than in performing the outward guard with a sword, in which movement, the hand is supine, although the amount of flexion of the fore-arm may be the same in the two attitudes. In order that this muscle should act effectively on the shoulder joint, the radius must be supinated, or, if pronated, it must be fixed. The Extensor Group, fig. 170. — This is represented by the triceps muscle of the arm, but, with it, may be associated the anconeus. Triceps cubiti, figs. 168, 169, 170, ^s, 59», 596^ Superficial, except for a short distance above, where it is concealed by the deltoid and teres muscles ; a peculiarly shaped, three-headed muscle, its fasciculi ending below, on the deep surface, upper end, and outer and inner borders of a long, flat, quadri- lateral tendon; longitudinally down the back of the humerus, from below the shoulder joint to the elbow joint. Middle or long head, from a tubercle and surrounding depression beneath the neck of the scapula, outer head, from the back of the humerus, between the insertion of the teres minor and the musculo- spiral groove, and from the external intermuscular septum, inner or short head, from the back of the humerus, below the musculo-spiral groove, also from just beneath the insertion of the teres major, and from the internal intermuscular septum upper border and sides of the olecranon process. The middle tendon of origin is flat, and connected slightly with the glenoid ligament and the capsule of the shoulder joint; the other two tendons of origin are pointed. The fleshy part of the middle head is narrow; that of the outer head, larger than the others, is fusiform; that of the inner head is also fusiform, but both the latter become flattened below ; the outer one descends lower, and is almost continuous with the upper border of the anconeus. The broad tendon of insertion commences somewhat above the middle of the back of the arm, and appears depressed amongst the fleshy fasciculi above it, and at its sides; its upper border is oblique, the outer fleshy fasciculi terminating upon it, and upon the outer border; its lower end is separated from the highest part of the olecranon by a bursa; some of its fibres pass over that process on to the triangular subcutaneous surface of the bone beyond. The triceps is the only muscle situated at the back of the arm ; it is the proper extensor of the fore-arm, being the essential striking muscle in hitting forwards with the closed hand, a movement only prepared for by the biceps, which often has the reputation of being the pugilistic muscle.