328 THE MUSCLES. the sides of the abdominal walls, namely the transversalis abdominis. Along the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum muscle, this tendon splits into three layers, between which are enclosed the quadratus muscle itself, and the erector spinse; a thin layer passing in front of the quadratus is attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrse, to the crest of the iHum and to the lower border of the last rib; another layer, much stronger, passing behind that muscle and in front of the erector spinse, is also fixed to the lumbar transverse processes ; lastly, a third, very strong aponeurotic layer, passing behind the erector spinge, reaches the crest of the ilium and the spinous processes of the sacral, lumbar and lower dorsal vertebree. This last layer is blended with the tendinous origin of the erector spinse, and also, in itself, constitutes the broad origin of the latissimus dorsi muscle, to be here- after described; it likewise furnishes an origin to the serratus posticus inferior muscle, 152^*, Above this, it becomes thinner and is named the vertebral fascia or aponeurosis, ^^"j which, attached, on the one hand, to the spinous processes, and, on the other, to the angles of the ribs, binds down the sacro- lumbaHs and longissimus dorsi, the continuations of these muscles and also the spinalis dorsi, furnishes covering-s to the serratus posticus superior, the com- plexus, and the two splenii muscles in the back and neck, and then becomes continuous with the cervical fascia. The Divergent Dorsal Group, fig. 152.—This includes the two posterior serrati and the two splenii muscles, which agree in arising from the spinous processes, and diverging from them ; but, otherwise, their association, here, is artificial, the former set proceeding to the thorax, the latter to the neck and head. Over them, are situated the shoulder-girdle muscles, and the two broad superficial muscles of the back. Serratus 'posticus inferior, fig. 152, Deep; flat, thin, irregularly quadrilateral, single and tendinous at its origin, ending in three or four fleshy digitations; oblique, upwards and outwards. Upper two or three lumbar, and lower two dorsal spines, interspinous ligaments, and posterior layer of the fascia limiborum, which is blended with the tendon of origin of the latissimus dorsi inferior borders of lower three or four ribs, beyond their angles. Serratus posticus superior, Deep; like the inferior muscle, digitate, but narrower ; oblique, downwards and outwards. Upper two or three dorsal and lowest cervical spines, and ligamentum nuchae upper borders of the second, third and fourth ribs, beyond their angles. The two posterior serrati are so connected with the vertebral aponeiirosis, that they tighten it, and thus brace the erector spinae. The superior one is e\'idently an inspiratory muscle, elevating the ribs. The inferior one may also be inspiratory, by fixing the lower ribs, and so aiding the downward action of the diaphragm, as well as elongating the thorax ; it has, however, been regarded as an expiratory muscle.