THE BONES. 188 than in the female, the anterior part of the foot is especially elongated, in the latter. In other words, the foot is more foot-like, in the male; whereas, it inclines towards the characters of the hand, in the female. Even the upper articular siu-face of the astragalus is longer, in proportion to its width, in the female than it is in the male, in whom it is relatively broader, and thus affords a wider bearing-surface, whilst the extent of backward and for- ward movement of the foot at the ankle-joint, is, greater in the female than in the male. Moreover, if a line be drawn, from behind forwards, through the long diameter of this articular surface, it will, in the male, pass tlirougli the middle of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and close to the inner side of the last phalanx of that toe; whereas, in the female foot, it speedily gains the inner border of the foot, passing only through the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe: in other words, the astragalus is placed much more obliquely in the female, than in the male foot, its head, and the inner side of the scaphoid bone in front of it, projecting further inwards, owing, apparently, to a slight lateral, or inward, yielding, across the line of the transverse joint of the foot. This yielding of the inner border of the foot, added to the oblique direction of the articular surface of the astragalus, may help to explain the greater disposition, in the female, to point the entire foot outwards; whilst the narrowness of that surface, and the freedom of the transverse articulation, will explain the greater mobility, pliability, and grace of movement of the foot, in women, as compared with men. A slight yielding of this part of the arch of the female foot, on the under side, also gives the scaphoid bone, a more hori- zontal position in the tarsus, and, accordingly, more of its internal tuberosity becomes visible from above ; whereas, in the male foot, this bone is placed more obliquely from side to side, its tuberosity being turned downwards. All these arrangements indicate comparatively greater elegance in the female foot, and greater strength in the male. Lastly, the tarsal bones, except the astra- galus, are more in a straight line with those of the metatarsus and phalanges in the female foot, a disposition less favourable for the dissipation of shock than the more undulating arrangement of the parts seen in the male foot. The leg hones and the femur, compare figs. 64, 66, in accordance with the relative shortness of the lower limb, are also proportionally shoi'ter in women than in men. The tibia, and with it, of course, the fibula, inclines upwards and slightly inwards, from the foot to the knee, in the female; whereas, it is placed vertically on the foot, in the standing position, in the male. This obliquity of the leg bones compensates for the greater inclination outwards of the femur, at its upper end, in the female, dependent on the shortness of that bone, and the greater distance between the two acetabula at the hip-joints. Hence, the lower limbs are more in-kneed, or bent inwards at the knee, in the female than in the male ; moreover, there is, in the former, a tendency to an external rotatory displacement of the leg upon the thigh, and to a separation