220 THE JOINTS. retire from observation, according as the extensor mnscles, which are connected with the patella, are in action or at rest. Movements.—The range of movement at the knee joint is greater than that at any other joint in the body ; but, notwithstanding this, and the fact that its component bones are the longest in the body, the great breadth of its articular surfaces, the existence of the peculiarly shaped inter-articular cartilages, and the strength of its ligaments, render it very secure. The inter- articular cartilages move always with the tibia, on the condyles of the femur; or the condyles of the femur move on the tibia and the cartilages. Flexion is by far the freest movement, and may be said to be complete, being arrested only, or chiefly, by contact of the leg with the thigh. Extension may be carried a little beyond the straight line, as when the knee is thrown back in standing at ease, in which position the weight of the body is supported, without muscular effort, by the tightening of the ligaments at the sides, and back of the joint. Owing to the unequal length of the two condyles, oblique move- ments occur at this joint, by which, in extension, the tibia, with the external semilunar cartilage, is abducted, or moved towards the outer condyle, and the leg is directed outwards ; whilst, in flexion, the tibia and the internal cartilage are adducted on the inner condyle, and the leg is again turned inwards, or in the same plane as the thigh ; the leg and foot are thus thrown outwards in extension of the knee, and drawn inwards again during flexion. These oblique movements give variety and grace to the relative positions of the long seg- ments of the lower limb. In extension of the knee, nearly all the liga- ments are tightened, even the lateral ligaments, which are fixed behind the axis of motion at the joint, the exceptions being the ligamentum patellae and the posterior crucial ligament; in this position, the two long bony segments of the lower limb are locked together, so as to form a single firm column, in which no rotation is possible of one part upon the other, a provision admirably adapted to the necessities of the erect posture. But as the knee is gradually bent, a proper rotatory movement of the leg upon the thigh is permitted, this being most marked in semi-flexion ; it is in this position, that the strong posterior, lateral, and anterior crucial ligaments are all relaxed. This rotatory movement of the tibia takes place beneath the internal condyle of the femiu-, the most evident movement of displacement of the tibia being at its external tuberosity, the fibula of course moving with it. The oblique movements of the patella upwards and downwards, during flexion and extension of the knee, upon the end of the femur, have been already explained, p. 61. In the straight position of the knee, the anterior surface of the patella is directed forwards, but, in flexion, it is turned a little outwards ; in extension, the ligamentum patellae descends somewhat obliquely outwards to the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, whilst, in flexion, it is almost vertical. The position of the lower end of the ligamentum patellae, is necessarily changed in