401 THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. of a smaller, deep, and of a larger, superficial portion ; the deep portion, oblique downwards and forwards, the superficial portion, oblique in the opposite direc- tion. The deep portion, from the hinder part of the lower border, and from the inner surface of the zygoma, the superficial portion, from the fore part of the lower border of the zygoma, and adjacent part of the malar process of the superior maxillary bone the deep part, to the upper half of the ramus, and to the coronoid process of the lower jaw, the superficial part, to the lower half of the ramus, down to the angle of that bone. It is a powerful elevator of the lower jaw, clenching the teeth ; its superficial part assists in drawing the jaw forwards, protruding the chin, and directing it over to the opposite side. Pterygoidei, internus and externus, fig. 117. Deep-seated on the inner side of the ramus of the lower jaw, not reaching the surTace anywhere. The internal pterygoid descends from parts of the sphenoid and palate bones, to the inner surface of the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla; it assists in closing the teeth, forming, as it were, an internal masseter muscle; it rather tends to draw the jaw backwards. The external ptery- goid, fig. 117, p, passes, nearly horizontally backwards and outwards, from parts of the sphenoid bone, to the front of the neck of the lower jaw, a few fasciculi becoming attached to the capsule and inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the joint, above the condyle. It draws the condyle forwards, and so moves the entire jaw towards the opposite side, the chin, of course, included ; but, if both muscles act, they simply protrude the jaw and chin. The capsular fasciculi move the fibro-cartilage simultaneously with the condyle, a condition constant, and necessary to the action of this joint. The muscles which raise the lower jaw, and close the teeth, arising from the cranium or face, are very powerful; but those which depress it, acting from the hyoid bone, and only efficaciously when that bone is itself fixed, are comparatively very weak. The weight of the lower jaw, with the teeth and the soft parts connected with it, when not counteracted by the continuous gentle action of the masticatory muscles, suffices to depress it, as is seen at the moment of death. Buccinator, figs. 186, 187, 190, Superficial forward, on the cheek (bucca), but covered behind by the masseter, the ramus of the lower jaw, and some fatty tissue, and crossed by certain muscles near the corner of the mouth ; flat, thin, nearly quadrilateral; horizontal, the fasciculi converging as they pass forwards, the middle ones intersecting as they reach the angle of the lips. D D Fig. 192. Insertion of the Eight Temporal Muscle.