THE MUSCLES. 266 sweep round the back of the head of the humerus, and, accordingly, is some- what extended, though in action; on the left side, both the two last-named muscles are absolutely quiet, or only tonically contracted. The softness and flexibility of the living muscular tissue, and also its remarkable elasticity or power of extension and recoil, which seems allied to its tonicity, but is independent of, and, indeed, is partially diminished during its active contraction, enable the muscles to adapt themselves quickly to the varying positions of the neighbouring parts, especially of those of the bones moving at the joints, as well as to the constant changes of length, which they themselves undergo, when they are relaxed or contracted in different degrees, or when they are elongated by being mechanically stretched, by the gravity of parts of the body, or by antagonist muscles. The fact that the muscular substance practically undergoes no diminution in bulk as it contracts, has this obvious general application, namely, that the total mass of the corresponding part of a limb remains unaltered, whatever the condition of its muscles may be. The arm is thicker around in fig. 123, than in fig. 121, but its anterior part is shorter, and the parts about the tendon of the biceps are drawn in, so that the increase in one part is compensated by a diminution in other respects and situations. There is yet another condition of the muscles, which it is important for the artist to consider, namely that which occurs after death. At the moment of death, and the cessation of control on the part of the nervous system, voluntary and involuntary, the muscles become absolutely relaxed, and the whole body flaccid ; so that, in obedience to gravity, the head falls backwards, forwards, or to one side, the lower jaw drops, the mouth and eyelids open by their mere elasticity, and the limbs lie helplessly, the upper ones either slightly flexed, or as accident has placed them, and the lower ones usually with the feet extended and everted, owing to their weight. Sooner or later, however, according to circumstances, the muscles pass into the condition known as post-mo')iem rigidity, or rigor onoiiis, in which they become so firmly contracted, that the body and limbs are quite stiff—' stiffened in death.' The force required to overcome this rigor mortis is very great. The form assumed by each muscle in this condition, is the one which is possible to it, in the actual position of the body and limbs, at the moment of death, or that which the relative length and elasticity of the antagonist muscles permit, or the balance of forces then brings about, unless some insuperable weight or resistance interferes with the action of those causes. Hence, the upper eyelid continues to be partly drawn up, but the lower jaw again rises, the teeth are set together, and the mouth is ultimately closed ; whilst the facial muscles, often painfully distorted by violent emotion or suffering, usually, but not always, lapse into a condition of equilibrium, in harmony with their normal forces, and thus restore the placid forms of expression habitual to the face in sleep,