THE SKULL CONSIDERED AS A WHOLE. 171 mainly transmitted through those bones to the occipital condyles, and thence to the first cervical vertebra; so likewise, all shocks from below, are first re- ceived by these two firmly conjoined bones. The lines of connexion between the other cranial bones, 'between the facial bones, and between the bones of the cranium and the face, the so- called sutures, are only distinctly traceable on the dried skull, and are named after the bones, or parts of bones, which meet at them. Those in the base of the skull, fig. 61, are, for the most part, formed by broad rugged edges, plane, or scarcely indented; but a few, in the fore part of the base, present comparatively thin and finely indented edges ; the greatest weight, and the most powerful shocks, pass through the former set. Of the sutures visible on the sides and vault of the cranium, fig. 62, the occipito- 'parietal, situated between the upper convex border of the occipital bone, and the posterior concave borders of the two parietals, also named the lambdoidal suture, (A, the Greek letter L, lambda), has broad and deeply indented edges, with elevated borders. The separate islets of bone, called ossa triquetra (three-sided) or Wormian bones (after an anatomist), fig. 62, are chiefly found in this suture, though they occur also in neighbouring sutures. In the middle line along the vertex, is the well-marked, deeply serrated parietal or inter-parietal suture, otherwise named the sagittal suture, from its straight, median, arrow-like course (sagitta, an arrow), between the lamb- doidal and the fronto-parietal sutures. In the infant, the cranial bones are incomplete, opposite both ends of this suture, the membranous intervals being named, from their rising and falling, the posterior and anterior fontanelles {fans, a fount) ; the part which corresponds with the latter, in the closed skull, is named the bregma, {^psyf^a, a fount). A continuation of this median suture ±)etween the two halves of the frontal bone, down to the root of the nose, constitutes the frontal suture, present in early life, sometimes persistent, but usually obliterated, in the adult. The fronto-parietal suture, fig. 62, between the anterior concave borders of the two parietal bones and the posterior convex border of the frontal bone, named, from its position, the coronal suture {^corona, a fillet), passes across the cranium, from the point of one great wing of the sphenoid bone to the other, being a little curved back- wards at the top of the skull, and very distinctly serrated. In the middle of this suture, the frontal bone overlaps the parietals, but, at the sides, the parietals overlap the frontal. The lower concave border of each parietal bone is joined to the squamous portion of the corresponding temporal bone, by the squamous suture, fig. 63, the edges of both bones being much bevelled off, so that the temporal widely overlaps the parietal bone; behind this, the masto- parietal and masto-occipital sutures, are thick-edged and deeply indented ; in front, is the short and finely denticulated spheno-parietal suture, seen in the temporal fossa. From the two ends of this suture, the squamo- and froyito-