105 THE BONES OF THE THOEAX. of life, when it becomes gradually ossified from above. This is the xiphoid or ensiform cartilage or appendix {^l^os ; ensis; a sword). It is foliated in shape, flattened before and behind, broad from side to side, but thin from back to front. It varies much in shape and size. It is rarely quite straight, being more frequently bent, either forward, so as to produce a marked prominence, or backward so as to cause a depression, or to one side. Sometimes, it is perforated, and, sometimes, bifurcated. It is attached, at the sides, to the aponeurosis of the abdominal muscles, and, below, to the longitudinal fibrous band, known as the linea alba. Above, it is joined to the lower end of the middle piece of the sternum, where it furnishes, on each side, a half facet for the seventh costal cartilage. The triangularis sterni muscle, the rectus abdo- minis, and the diaphragm, are all connected slightly with the xiphoid appendix. The middle part of the sternum is named the body, also the gladiolus {gladius, a sword), and mucro, or point of the sword. Somewhat narrower below, where it joins the xiphoid car- tilage, it speedily widens out, and then gradually contracts towards its upper end, where it joins the highest piece of the sternum. It always presents, both in front and behind, three slightly raised transverse ridges, which mark the lines of junction of four of its original component pieces. Each piece is slightly concave from above down- wards, though flattened or somewhat convex from side to side. Sometimes there is a trace of a fourth line, across the lowest piece, which would indicate the existence of five pieces, or one to each interval between the seventh and second costal cartilages. These car- tilages are attached to small angular notches in the borders of the sternum, fig. 43, situated opposite the transverse lines of junction of its several com- ponent pieces. The half notch for the partial reception of the seventh, and the complete notch for articulation with the sixth costal cartilage, are small, and placed very near each other, on the lowest piece of this part of the sternum; the notch for the fifth cartilage, is placed between the fourth and third piece ; that for the fourth cartilage, between the third and second piece; and that for the third, between the second and highest pieces. The lower half of the notch for the second costal cartilage, is placed on the highest part of the border of JfiG- 42. Front view Fig. 43. Right of the Sternum. border of the Sternum.