London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place. Third Edition, with Additions, including two new Diagrams, rendering the work consistent with the present state of Science. " A DESCKIPTION OP THE HUMAN BODY, ITS STRUCTUHE AND FUNCTIONS. ILLUSTRATED BY PHYSIOLOGICAL DIAGRAMS. DESIGNED FOR THE USE OF TEACHERS IN SCHOOLS AND YOUNG MEN DESTINED FOR THE MEDICAL PROFESSION, AND FOR POPULAR INSTRUCTION GENERALLY. BY JOHN MARSHALL, F.R.S. P.R.C.S. Professor of Surgery in University College, London; Burgeon to the University College Hospital; Professor of Anatomy in the Ttoyal Academy of Arts ; and late Lectv/rer on Anatomy in the Science and Art Department, South Kensington. The opinion now generally prevailing, that some acquaintance with the Sciences which teach us the structure and functions of our own bodies should form a part of a liberal education for the higher classes, and of a useful education for all, and the introduction of the subjects of Anatomy and Physiology into many Public Examinations, have made it incumbent on Tutors and Teachers to acquire an exact, though, in comparison with the wants of the Medical Profession, a limited know- ledge of those departments of Natural Science. The present work is designed expressly to supply the means of acquiring such a knowledge ; and, accordingly, m respect of fulness of detail, occupies a position midway between the strictly Medical and the General Educational Treatise. It is offered to the public, however, not only as an attempt to meet the expanding wants of the non-Medical Teacher of the young of both sexes, but also as well calculated for the purposes of self-tuition on the part of the Nobility, Clergy, and Gentry, amongst whom there is now evidently awakened a desire for precise information on the subjects of which it treats. The work also forms a suitable gift-book to a youth destined for the Medical Profession. In this volume will be found a full account of the organs which support and move the body, and of the important parts concerned in the act of Breathing, in the Circulation of the Blood, in the Digestion of the Food, and in the Absorption of Nutrient Materials. The Nervous System, the Organs of the Senses, and the. Organ of Voice, are very fully described; and the work includes a complete review of the Microscopic Structure of all the organs and tissues of the body. The great aim throughout the entire book is to give an accurate idea of the structure of every part, from a consideration of which its special use or uses are theu deduced. By this plan alone, following the Anatomical method, can Physiology be made a safe, sound, and useful branch of General Education ; and, in taking this work as their guide, both Teachers and Pupils will find that, amidst the inevitable changes and advances of Physiological explanations and discoveries, they will have acquired a knowledge of unchanging facts as a solid basis for every future advancement. ( With these views the work is copiously illustrated with 240 figures, six of which are full-length representations of the Anatomy of the human frame. These numerous illustrations are arranged on eleven plates, and bound up in a limp cover apart from the text, for greater ease of reference and consultation. In conclusion, the Publishers think it right to state that there is nothing in the present work which renders it unsuitable for perusal by the youth of either sex; and that, as an interesting exposition of the marvels of the human frame, it may find its place on the drawing-room table as well as in the library and the study. The Work contains 260 quarto pages of Text, hound in cloth, and 240 Coloured Illus- trations, arranged in 11 Folio Plates, measuring 15 inches by 7^, in a limp cover. Price of the Quarto Volume and Small Folio Atlas, 21s.