THE MOVEABLE JOINTS. 207 movements occurring in the same joint, as, for example, in the knee or ankle, the elbow or the wrist, its movements are relieved from an otherwise vmavoid- able stiffness or formality; and, in consequence of the participation of many- joints, in the assumption of a given attitude, or in the execution of a particular movement, additional causes of beauty arise; take, as an example, the com- bined movements of the knee, ankle, and foot. It is important to note that the movements of all joints may be regarded as being of three different kinds, namely, first, those which are /ree, or are produced simply by muscular action ; secondly, those which -Axe forced, or are brought about by the sole influence of weight, pressure, or other external force or internal resistance; and thirdly, mixed actions, in which, muscular force, gravity, and external or internal resistance all take part. In free actions, the articular surfaces determine precisely the resulting movements ; as a rule, these free actions follow the paths dictated by the forms of the arti- cular surfaces, and are absolutely agreeable. If in perfect obedience to these forms, they appear natural and pleasing; but when contrary to them, they be- come certainly less agreeable, and probably are offensive. Nevertheless, these last movements, if obviously forced, that is when due to some evident constraint, are at once accepted as possible and proper. That the muscles are always arranged in harmony xvith the articular surfaces, is quite certain; for the forms of those surfaces are necessarily developed in concert with, and under the direct modelling influence of, the muscles which move the bones concerned. The strict relationship between the number, position, and line of action of the muscles around a joint, con- sidered in relation to the character of its movements, points to such a conclu- sion. Given the kind of joint, the general arrangement of its muscles may be predicated; and given the facts concerning the muscles, the general cha- racter of the joint may be defined. Even when a single joint is capable of performing associated movements, or when several joints concur in such results, suitable muscles necessarily exist. As the grooves and prominences on the surface of a bone, are formed more or less under the control of the tendons and muscles which play upon or pull upon them, from infancy on- wards, so the pulleys and condyles of a joint must be acted on, by the constant exertion of muscular force upon them. But, here also, gravity and resistance, in the shape of the weight of tlie body, of pressure from without, and of the mutual reaction of the fulcra of support, and of the internal levers of the body, play a most important part. The flattened and simple form of the planiform joints, as for example, of those of the tarsus, are probably chiefly determined by weight and resistance ; whereas, in the perfection of the more variably formed hinge joints, ball-and-socket joints, and pivot joints, mus- cular force probably has more direct influence. In the lower limbs, how- ever, and in the vertebral column, weight has necessarily the greater effect;