THE BONES. 166 curved and sharp below, forms part of the lower and inner borders ar.d walls of the orbit, within which, it joins the lacrymal, ethmoid and palate bones. The anterior border of this process, strongly curved and sharp, bounds a deep notch, n, having its concavity turned towards the middle line, and constituting the margin of the anterior opening of the nose, to which the lateral nasal car- tilage is attached. Lastly, above this notch, the bone is connected by a straight ragged edge with the outer border of the corresponding nasal bone ; hence, the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone, supports and throws forwards the bridge of the nose. Numerous muscles are connected with the superior maxillary bones. Thus, on each side, from the under border of the malar process, arises a small part of the masseter muscle; from the lateral surface of the alveolar border, one portion of the buccinator ; from the myrtiform fossa, in front, the depressor of the ala of the nose ; from the anterior nasal spine, some fibres of the orbicularis oris ; from the bottom of the canine fossa, the levator anguli oris ; above this, the levator labii superioris; and, in front of that, the compressor narium. From the ascending process, arises the levator labii superioris et alse nasi; from the orbital margin, the tendo oculi, and the orbicularis palpebrarum ; and within the orbit; the inferior oblique muscle of the eye-ball. The Nasal Bones.—The nasal bones, figs. 62, 63, N, two in number, right and left, surmount and complete the anterior openings of the nose above; they assist in forming the bony framework of the bridge of the nose. They are elongated, quadrilateral bones, narrower and thicker above, wider and thinner below, but varying both in width and length in different skulls. They are united, at their upper thicker jagged ends, by a large surface for such small bones, to the frontal bone, just below the glabella. Their outer borders are bevelled, and supported by, and attached to, the ascending pro- cesses of the superior maxillary bones. Along the middle line, the inner borders of the two bones are flat, and joined firmly together; these borders project into the interior of the nose, forming a longitudinal crest, which strengthens the bones, and serves to connect them with the nasal spine of the frontal bone, and with the ethmoidal portion of the septum of the nose. Their lower borders are free, thin, and notched, and form the continuous, curved upper margin of the anterior nasal openings, the highest part of which is named the nasal angle ; in the recent state, this margin gives attachment to the lateral cartilages of the nose. The anterior surfaces of the nasal bones, slightly hollowed above, but convex lower down, are nearly subcutaneous, being covered only by very thin muscles ; they are inclined backwards and outwards from each other, and give shape and character to the corresponding part of the nose. In the lower races of men, the nasal bones are small and flattened, and in the anthropoid apes, they