133 THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. reaching lower down than, but not so far back on the posterior aspect of the fore-arm as, the styloid process of the ulna. To a short ridge, terminating below in a small tubercle situated at the base of this process, is inserted the flattened tendon of the supinator longus muscle; to the apex, is fixed the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The lower end of the radius is smooth and excavated, in front; just above the lower articular surface, is an irregular transverse ridge, for the attachment of the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint; the margin of the articular surface runs obliquely downwards and outwards, towards the apex of the styloid process. On the back of the bone, there are many ridges, and'grooves, figs. 54, 56, 110, 111, for the numerous tendons found in this situation and passing down to the hand. On the outer side, close behind the styloid process, is a nearly vertical groove, running a little forwards, and indistinctly separated into two parts, for the tendons of two of the extensors of the thumb, namely, the extensor ossis meta- carpi and the extensor primi internodii pollicis ; next to this, is another broader and shallower vertical groove, subdivided by a slight median ridge, which gives passage to the long and the short radial extensors of the wrist; then a narrow deep oblique groove is seen for the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; and, lastly, there is a fourth, well-marked, broad, vertical groove, for the extensor of the index finger, and the common extensor of the fingers. A small channel for the extensor of the little finger, is formed be- tween the radius and the ulna, on this aspect of the wrist; whilst on the ulna itself, as already mentioned, is the groove for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Below all these grooves, is the hinder convex margin of the lower articular surface of the radius, to which the loose posterior ligament of the wrist-joint is attached. At the lower end of the bone, fig. 53, two distinct articular surfaces are found. One of these, situated on the ulnar side of the bone, named the sigmoid cavity of the radius, is a small, shallow, almost semi-lunar facet, elongated from before backwards, and oblique from above downwards and inwards, the radius itself here curving in the same direction. This cavity rests upon the smooth, convex, and obliquely cut articular surface on the radial side of the head of the ulna, and, by its means, the radius rotates easily on the lower end of its companion bone. The other and larger articular surface, upon the lower end of the bone, (see the small sketches near figs. 53, 56), enters into the formation of the wrist-joint. It is turned obliquely downwards and inwards, towards the upper part of the carpus, and is oblong in its general form, being, like the radius itself, wider from side to side than it is deep from before back- wards ; it is slightly concave, both from before backwards and from side to side, and is subdivided, opposite to a constriction in its anterior and posterior borders, by a slight ridge passing from before backwards, into two parts; one, inner, smaller and square, articulates with the semi-lunar bone, the central bone of the first row of the carpus ; the other, outer, larger and somewhat triangular,