120 THE BONES. muscular space or furrow, in the living figure. Moreover, as occurs in those instances, the muscles attached to the spinous process and also to the acromion, infringe, more or less, upon the margins of the surface of these processes, which looks towards the skin, so that the furrow left between the muscles, over the bony eminences, is narrower, and has softer outlines, than the bone itself. About the middle of this scapular furrow, is a slight bend downwards, de- pending upon an undulation of the under lip of the spinous process at this point, where also a slight downward prominence is met with, to which a tendinous slip of the deltoid muscle is attached. The flattened or slightly convex sm-face-form, due to the subcutaneous part of the acromion, when the muscles are at rest, is changed into a semi- lunar curved depression, or acromial furrow, when the muscles are in action ; both forms are concave on the inner border, which is turned towards the neck, and is overlapped by the trapezius muscle, but convex on the outer border, which is turned towards the rounded prominence of the shoulder and is characterised by being gently festooned, or indented, owing to the forms of the subdivisions of the deltoid muscle, which arise from it. The outer end of the clavicle produces a small but special elevation, found to the inner side, but a little in front, of the broad and somewhat more depressed acromial furrow, which, however, in thin persons, is itself very prominent. It deserves again to be noted, that it is the convex outer border of the acromion process of the scapula, and not the outer end of the clavicle, which constitutes the outermost lateral point of the skeleton of the trunk, in this region. It will, however, be observed, that the enlarged upper end or head of the humerus, when it is in situ and dependent, projects still further out- wards ; and that, accordingly, it is the humerus, and not the acromion, which forms the extreme point of bone opposite to, or across the shoulders, in the living figure. Although the apex of the coracoid process, is not, properly speaking, subcutaneous, its position, just opposite to the inner edge of a small oblique triangular depression, formed below the collar-bone, and between the deltoid and gi-eat pectoral muscles, and, therefore, just under cover of the latter, is quite determinate, and useful to remember. The depression itself might be designated the coracoid furrow. The chief changes produced during the movements of the shoulder, in the surface-forms dependent on the scapula and clavicle, will be mentioned with the description of the Muscles.