129 THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. the arm; below this, it becomes constricted to join the shaft of the bone, and presents, behind, a smooth triangular surface, which has its apex directed down- wards, and is subcutaneous, being covered only by skin, a bursa intervening. Along the entire inner margin of the greater sigmoid notch, from the olecranon to the coronoid process, is fixed the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint. Into the front roughened surface of the coronoid process, and into the part of the bone just below it, is inserted the brachialis anticus muscle; near this, is a slight eminence, named the tubercle, for the attachment of the oblique ligament which passes down to the radius; on the inner side of the coronoid process, is a narrow ridge for the origin of a part of the pronator radii teres ; above that, is a slight eminence, from which a portion of the flexor sublimis digitorum arises; lastly, behind this, is a depression for the origin of the upper end of the flexor profundus digitorum. The lesser sigmoid notch, figs. 54, 56, placed upon the outer side of the coronoid process, below the outer border of the greater one, with which it is continuous, is a narrow oblong facet, widest in the middle, and having its long diameter from before back- wards, so as to fit the side of the head of the radius. To its anterior and posterior margins, the orbicular ligament, which embraces the head of the radius, is attached ; immediately below this, is a small depression for a part of the origin of the supinator brevis muscle. The several ridges of bone in the neighbourhood of the coronoid and olecranon processes, which give origin to muscles, also serve to strengthen the processes with which they are con- tinuous. The shaft of the ulna is three times slightly curved, first bending back- wards towards the radius, then backwards away from it, and, finally, in its lower part, again turning forwards towards that bone. Hence it is slightly convex behind, in its upper two-thirds, and convex intei'nally, lower down. In the greater part of its extent, it is three-sided or prismatic, but, towards its lower end, it tapers, and becomes somewhat cylindrical. The outer harder of the three-sided shaft, or that turned directly towards the radius when the bones are parallel, is most evident along the middle portion of the bone, is undulating and sharp, presents an upper shorter, and a lower longer incurvation, and has the interosseous membrane, which ties the two bones together, attached to it. The anterior surface of the ulna, fig. 53, continued downwards from the base of the coronoid process, is somewhat excavated, becomes narrower as it descends, and, from the greater part of its extent, gives origin to the flexor pro- fundus digitorum; this muscle also covers most of the rounded inner border, and arises likewise from the upper two-thirds of the broad and smooth inner surface of the bone, the lower third of which, however, also smooth, is sub- cutaneous. The lower fourth of the anterior surface, likewise concave, and separated from the rest by an oblique line, affords origin to the pronator quadratus muscle. The posterior border of the ulna, most marked in the K