THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK 343 the cartilaginous and bony portions of the first rib deep groove on the under surface of the clavicle. Sometimes, the subclavius is partially, or even wholly, inserted into the coracoid process of the scapula. It depresses the shoulder; it draws the clavicle downwards and forwards, and, when the whole arm is raised, helps to roll the clavicle on its long axis, and rotate its upper surface backwards. It may become an auxiliary muscle of inspiration, by lifting or fixing the first rib, when the arms are raised and fixed. Pectoralis minor, figs. 161, 162, 166, Deep, except if the arm be raised above the head, when its lower border is partially superficial in the axilla ; flat, triangular, con- sisting below, of three fleshy portions, united to a narrow tendon above; passes obliquely upwards and outwards, across the upper part of the axillary space. Outer surfaces of the third, fourth and fifth ribs, external to their carti- lages, and intervening in- tercostal fascia front of the coracoid process of the scapula, its tendon being united to the conjoined tendon of origin of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles of the arm. It draws the scapula, and, therefore, the shoulder, downwards and forwards, moving that bone away from the vertebral —Deep portion of the Pectoral Group, with parts - of the Shoulder-Girdle Group, and of the Trapezius. column behmd. It behaves as an antagonist to the rhomboids and the trapezius, not only in this respect, but also in reference to the peculiar "rotatory movement of the scapula, in which it helps to depress, instead of elevating, the point of the shoulder. If the scapula be fixed, the pectoralis minor will assist in laboured respiration. Pectoralis major, figs. 162, 166, '\ Superficial, except quite at its insertion, but overlaid by the mamma or mammary gland, and by some fatty tissue, near its lower border, and covered by the thin cutaneous platysma muscle above; a thick, broad, triangular muscle, its base turned towards the middle line of the chest, its upper and lower corners rounded off", and consisting of three distinct parts, namely, a clavicular and two sterno-costal or