THE PELVIS. 79 produce slight elevuticns of the surface, but at others, they correspond with slight oblong oblique depressions amongst the surrounding soft parts ; they are guides to the position of the outer end of Poupart's ligament and to the corresponding fold of the groin, the surface-forms of both of which become ob- scured at their inner ends ; they also indicate the level of the promontory of the sacrum, which corresponds very nearly with them, but is placed somewhat lower. Proceeding a little upwards and outwards, and then backwards from each an- terior spine, is, in most positions of the body, a deep undulating gToove, the iliac furrow, situated between the gluteal region below, and the abdomen above ; this is the line of the outer margin of the crest of the ilium, so overlapped by the muscles of the abdominal walls, especially by the fleshy external oblique muscle, that its harder outlines are much softened, at the same time that it no longer forms a prominent ridge as in the skeleton, but a deep groove which gradually disappears posteriorly. Its hinder third is almost completely con- cealed by the latissimus dorsi muscle above, and the gluteus maximus below. At the back of the pelvis, the two posterior superior spinous processes of the ilia, or rather the portions of them which are strictly subcutaneous, usually form more or less easily recognisable prominences or depressions, one on either side, in the lower part of the trunk, a short distance below the level of the posterior sacro-ver- tebral angle. They are placed a little lower than the promontory of the sacrum, and almost on the same horizontal plane, as the anterior superior spines. In the skeleton, these points project boldly, beyond the corresponding part of the back of the sacrum ; but the powerful erector spinas niuscle on the inner side, the latissimus dorsi on the outer side, and the gluteus maximus below, are, especially when in action, more prominent around them, and so their small subcutaneous portion is sunk deeply amongst the muscles. In the middle line, but a little lower than the two posterior superior spinous processes of the ilium, is a third point on the surface, sometimes raised, but often also depressed, which corresponds with the most prominent part of the sacral plane or posterior surface of the sacrum, namely, the tuberosity of that bone, formed by the conjoined spinous processes of its third and fourth vertebrae. This surface-point, together with the two previously described, complete a triangle, which may be named the sacro-iliac triangle, the apex of which, turned downwards, sinks in between the two prominent great gluteal muscles. These three points are always fixed in reference to each other, however much their relative position, as regards the bones and the muscles of the adjacent femoral and lumbar regions, may undergo change. Indeed, all the pelvic points, whether behind or in front, owing to the unyielding character of the connexions between the bones forming the pelvic girdle, retain their mutual relations as to distance and position, in all postures of the body, whether vertical, horizontal, or inclined. Hence, when the depressions corresponding with the two posterior superior spinous processes of the innominate bones, are in the same horizontal line, as in standing equally