248 THE MUSCLES. uniform size, dark in the centre and lighter around, named the sarcous elements, which cohere together end to end, to form a fihrilla. But the sarcode of every fihre is also capable of splitting crosswise into transverse discs, g, consisting each of a single stratum of the sarcous cylinders, cohering by their sides, like pieces of a layer of mosaic work, and compiled so evenly across the fibre, that this latter is marked, not only by faint longitudinal lines corresponding with fibrillae, but by more distinct, dark, transverse stripes or strice, agreeing in width with the dark centres of the cylindrical elements, and very nearly with the thickness of the discs. Still further, exquisitely delicate systems of fine dark rods with enlarged ends, surrounded by a lighter material, have been detected in the sub- stance of the cylindrical elements; these rods produce the central dark spot in each cylinder, and are concerned in the physical changes which the cylinders undergo during the contraction and relaxation of the entire fibre. The transverse striie, indicating the existence of the discs, are character- istic of all voluntary muscular fibres, which are. therefore, also known as stri- ated or striped muscular fibres. The involuntary muscular fibres generally, are plain or unstriped, having no cross striae; they are also shorter, flattened, and fusiform, or tapering at each end ; the muscular fibres of the heart, however, are indistinctly striated, and likewise branched; the ultimate voluntary fibres beneath the mucous coat of the tongue, are also ramified, e. An aggregation of striated muscular fibres, thus elaborately constructed, arranged parallel with each other, and embedded in the perimysium, con- stitutes an ultimate fasciculus ; few or many of these, united by a coarser peri- mysium, form the larger fasciculi; these, again, are gathered together into still larger ones, which combined in various numbers and w^ays into one separate mass, held together and enclosed by areolar connective tissue, contribute to build up an individual muscle. In attaching themselves to their tendons, the muscular fibres end, either by a direct transition into a bundle of wavy connective tissue filaments, d, or by the oblique fastening of the rounded ends of the fibres into little depressions on the side of the tendinous structure,/. It is always through the intervention of some sort of membrane, that muscular fibres are fixed to bone or cartilage. The red substance of voluntary muscle contains as much as three-fourths of its weight of water ; the remaining 25 per cent, is composed of solids, about 15 parts of which consist of a peculiar albuminoid material, named myosin, from which another compound is obtainable, named syntonin, {avi'Tslvsiv, to draw together, or contract) ; from 3 to 4 parts are fatty matters, and the rest is albumen, gelatin, coloming matter, extractives, organic acids, and alkaline and earthy salts. Muscular substance also contains uncombined oxygen and carbonic acid. It has an acid juice, and a chara;cteristic odour,