SUKFACE-FORMS OF THE HEAD, NECK, AND FACE. 415 of the lips, and diminishes the width of the mouth; the facial portion, contracting alone and moderately, presses the lips against the jaws and teeth, and then protrudes them, slightly everting their free borders. Pro- bably the labial portion, chiefly, or only, is concerned in the habitual closure of the mouth ; but the entire muscle is engaged in its more firm closure, as in sucking, drinking, or taking food. It is this muscle, also, which renders the lips tense, for the purpose of whistling. By tightening and straightening its fasciculi, the upper half of the orbicularis can draw down the upper lip, and, with it, the alse of the nose; whilst its lower half, in the same way, raises the lower lip, and, with it, the soft parts covering the chin. The orbicular muscle of the mouth is very largely developed in the fleshy lips of the Negro, whose repulsive facility of everting the lips may be remembered. As a muscle of expression, it contracts in the more disagreeable, and relaxes in the more agreeable emotions or feelings. Risorius, figs. 186, 193, Superficial; a thin, delicate, pale band or num- ber of bands; apparently an offset or offsets of the platysma myoides; forwards and inwards, over the masseter and buccinator muscles. Fascia covering the masseter muscle corner of the mouth, together with the depressor anguli oris. It retracts the corner of the mouth, and hence was named by Santorini the risorius or smiling muscle ; but it has been shown that the upper part of the platysma myoides proper, draws the corner of the mouth downwards and backwards,, and is concerned in the expression of sadness or grief. SUKFACE-FORMS DEPENDENT ON THE MuSCLES OF THE NeCK, Head and Face. The forms of the sides and the back of the neck, and even of a small portion in front, above the outer end of the collar bone, depend, as already ex- plained, p. 349, upon the trapezius, and certain subjacent muscles. The an- terior border of the trapezius, is not indicated by an intermuscular marking, but forms a slight ridge, undulating downwards and forwards, over the neck. In front of it, is a long, slightly depressed hollow, slanting upwards and back- wards, from the collar bone on to the side of the neck, due to the intermuscular space between the trapezius and the sterno-mastoid, named the posterior triangle of the neck. It is across the lower part of this hollow, that the omo-hyoid, when it is in action, produces a momentary ridge, running at an acute angle, upwards and inwards, from the collar bone. The part of this triangle just above the collar bone, sometimes very depressed, has been popularly named the ' salt-cellar.^ In front of it, the elevation produced by the sterno-mastoid muscle, is usually plainly seen. The flatter clavicular origin, the narrow prominent ridge of the sternal origin, the small triangular depression between