THE MUSCLES. 312 short and slender one, the peroneus tertius; even the point of divergence of the clustered tendons is not central as regards the instep, but lies towards its outer part, and the separate tendons radiate forwards at different angles. In short, all these tendon-lines and their intervening spaces are of unequal length, width, and angular measurement ; the resulting modelling is singularly complex and interesting, not less so, because, when the foot is at rest, many of the forms are but very obscurely indicated. Occasionally, too, these forms are further chequered and heightened by the appearance of fainter ridges, dependent on portions of the extensor brevis tendons coming near the surface, especially the one intersecting the wider interspace between the long tendons proceeding to the great and the second toes. The fleshy portion of the extensor brevis, though crossed by the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus tertius, determines a remarkable fulness over the outer half of the back of the tarsus, which completely redeems the poverty of that comparatively flattened region of the osseous framework of the foot. Its rich form, terminating, in front, along a curved oblique line, corresponding with the ends of its several fleshy subdivisions, constitutes a chief beauty of the human instep, elevating and enriching the form of its outer side, as may be well seen in the antique, and, as is especially well exemplified in the restored foot of the Venus de Medici, in comparison with which, the attenuated mass of the extensor brevis muscle, in a modern boot- oppressed foot, is very disappointing. This muscular form is much developed in all those actions, in which the toes are raised, even if the foot itself be simultaneously straightened. On the outer border of the foot, tending to the back of the external malleolus are seen the rootlets of the external saphenous vein ; on the dorsum of the foot are venous branches and arches, which form the commencement of the internal saphenous vein, running towards the front of the internal malleolus. The smaller and straighter venules which run back from the toes, to join the arches on the dorsum of the foot, emerge from between the toes. The Leg.—The forms of the leg are very largely dependent on its muscles, and, of these, all but one, the popliteus, appear somewhere on the surface, most of them partially, namely, the extensor proprius pollicis, peroneus brevis, tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, soleus and plantaris; but the others, namely, the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, peroneus tertius, peroneus longus and gastrocnemius, are entirely superficial. Between the adjacent superficial or partly superficial muscles, are seen various linear depressions, or intermuscular markings, corresponding with intermuscular spaces or septa. They appear and disappear, according as the muscles on each side of them are in action or at rest. A long and gently curved intermuscular marking, brought into view when the foot is bent up on