THE JOINTS. 216 ligaments of the ankle pi'oper descend, beyond the astragalus, to tlie os calcis, they serve to support the joint between those bones, as well as the ankle joint itself, and guard both against the effects of lateral twisting. The broad deltoid ligament, filling in the interval between the internal malleolus and the tarsal bones, assists in smoothing the surface forms in that region; whilst the middle and especially the anterior band of the external lateral ligament, are sometimes recognisable on the surface below the external malleolus. The Tibio-fibular Joints.—The inferior tihio-fibular. planiform articulation has a flat anterior ligament, figs, 78, 81, passing from the tibia to the fibula, and widening out at its attachment to tlie latter; a similar posterior ligament, fig. 78 ; a narrow transverse ligament, consisting of mixed yellow and white fibres, extending across the back of the joint from the external malleolus to the tibia, chiefly along the hinder border of the articular surface of the latter; and, lastly, an inferior interosseous ligament, fig. 82, consisting of short, intersecting fibres, which pass from bone to bone, just above their narrow lateral articular facets. Of these ligaments, the last- named is the strongest; but the transverse ligament is the most remarkable, as it serves to deepen the socket of the ankle joint behind, and is decidedly elastic. The articular cavity communicates with that of the ankle joint. A firm, interosseous membrane stretches from the interosseous ridge of one bone to that of the other, its fibres, for the most part, passing downwards and outwards, from the tibia to the fibula ; it gives attachment to muscles, and leaves small spaces, above and below it. The superior tibio-fibular articulation, fig, 85, also planiform, is com- pleted by a strong anterior, and a somewhat weaker posterior ligament, fig. 84, the fibres of both of which pass obliquely from bone to bone. This little joint sometimes communicates with the knee joint. Movements.—The fibula is here the moveable bone, but its movement on the tibia is very slight. The lower end may be somewhat separated from the tibia, by weight or strain, and then spring back, the elastic transverse liga- ment being brought into play; the strong inferior interosseous ligament acts not only as a tie, but as a pad between the bones. The interosseous mem- brane, as it were, suspends the fibula from the tibia ; it also diffuses the effects of longitudinal shocks or pressure from below, from the tibia to the fibula. The slight gliding movements at the superior tibio-fibular articula- tion, save the slender bone of the leg from the effects of shock or pressure acting from below. The Knee Joint.—The hnee, the largest joint in the body, figs. 83 to 87, has the loosest capsule, a thin but strong fibroiis membrane, which