THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 329 Splenius colli and splenius capitis, fig. 152, ^o*. Deep ; shaped like the leaves of the spleen-wort or hart's-tongue {aTrXrjv), the tendinous points being downwards, and the broader fleshy parts upwards ; ascend obliquely out- wards, from the upper part of the back to the neck and head. Common origin, upper six dorsal and lowest cervical spines, and ligamentum nuchse the splenius colli, upper three cervical transverse processes the splenius capitis, occipital bone beneath the superior curved line, and back of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. The two splenii capitis, as they diverge upwards, expose the two complexi muscles between them. Acting together, the splenii of the two sides draw the neck and head backwards ; acting independently, they incline and rotate the head and neck to their own side. The Abdominal Group, figs. 147, 150, 152-155.—This includes, first, the three broad muscles, which, from the direction of their fleshy fasciculi, are named, the transverse and the internal and external oblique muscles; they enclose the abdominal cavity, at the sides and in front, by a three-fold musculo-tendinous wall. It also includes the large vertical rectus abdominis, which is situated on the front of the abdomen, in a sheath formed by the aponeuroses of the broad muscles, and, lastly, the small pyramidalis muscle, which is associated with the lower end of the rectus. Transversalis abdominis, figs. 147, 153, Deep ; a very broad, ir- regularly quadrilateral, curved muscle, partly tendinous but chiefly fleshy behind and at the sides, tendinous in front; more or less transverse, its lower fasciculi long and arched downwards and forwards, the middle and upper ones horizontal, the latter being very short. Outer half of Pouparfs ligament, p, anterior two thirds of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, lumbar fascia connecting it with the lumbar vertebrae, and inner surface of the lower six costal cartilages, by tendinous fibres from the twelfth and eleventh, but otherwise by fleshy bundles, which interdigitate with the diaphragm, and are continuous with the lower part of the triangularis sterni broad anterior aponeurosis commencing a short distance from the outer border of the rectus muscle and its sheath, and passing inwards, to be blended with the aponeuroses of the two oblique muscles, and with those of the three muscles of the opposite side, in the tinea alba, a strong, vertical, fibrous structure which occupies the middle line of the abdomen. In its lower fourth, fig. 153,^^', the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle passes altogether in front of the rectus muscle, leaving that muscle com- paratively free behind; but in its upper three fourths, it passes behind that muscle, and so assists in forming a sheath for it, in that situation. The transversalis muscle is supported on its inner surface by a layer of fascia, and this again is lined by the peritoneum, a smooth serous membrane