96 THE BONES. throughout the whole dorsal region, being especially far asunder at the articula- tions between the second and first dorsal vertebrse; in the neck,they very slightly approximate again, as high as the superior articular processes of the axis, but tlie superiorprocessesof theatlas become once more widely separated. In the middle line of the vertebral column behind, is seen the longitudinal row of spinous pro- cesses, which have given the name to the spine itself. In the sacral region, the spines are short, depressed, or wanting; in the lumbar region, they are thick, deep, and horizontal; in the dorsal region, they are long, more slender, triangular, and overlapping, excepting that of the first dorsal, which is short and blunt; in the cervical region, that of the seventh is long and thick, but the others are short, deep and nearly horizontal, that of the axis being very large indeed, whilst that of the atlas is reduced to a mere tubercle. The free ends or apices of these, up to the seventh cervical, are covered only by ligament, fascia, and skin. Their subcutaneous surfaces are both widest, and deepest from above downwards, in the lumbar region ; in the back, they are more pointed or tuberculated; in the neck, their more concealed apices are bifurcated or double, excepting those of the seventli and first. The spinous processes project furthest backwards in the loins, next in the back, and least of all in the neck, excepting always that of the lowest cervical, or prominent vertebra, and that of the axis, which stands very boldly out from the one below it. At the sides of the entire series of spinous processes, between them and the transverse processes, are seen, in the skeleton, two well-marked longitudinal depressions named the vertebral grooves. These are very shallow along the sacrum; deepest in the lumbar region ; much shallower in the back, especially in its upper third, where, however, they become broader, increasing in width up to the highest dorsal vertebra; in this region, the vertebral grooves appear to spread out as far as the angles of the ribs, where, accordingly, they might be named vertebro-costal; in the neck, they become still more shallow, and also narrower. These grooves accommodate, on each side, parts of the oblique, and longi- tudinal muscles of the back, and are completely filled by them. At the bottom of the grooves, are seen the laminae of the several vertebrae, narrow, and somewhat excavated from above downwards in the loins; deep, wide, flat, and having an oblique direction downwards and inwards, in the back; not so deep, and horizontal, in the neck. These laminte connect and support the transverse, spinous and articular processes. Between the parts of the laminas, from which the several spinous processes spring, are slight intervals, where there is no bony protection to the spinal cord ; the interval is large between the sacrum and the loins ; it is smaller in the lumbar region itself and in the upper part of the neck; but between the atlas and the occipital bone, there is a large unprotected gap. These intervals favour the backward bending of