131 THE BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. its base or root and the inferior articular surface of the head of the bone, is a small depression for one end of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage; its apex affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint; its posterior surface is subcutaneous, and is continuous upwards with the lower and somewhat rounded part of the posterior subcutaneous ridge of the ulna; on the back of the styloid process and to its radial side, is a slightly marked groove for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle. The point of the styloid process is the lowest part of the ulna, but neither this, nor the articular end, or head, reaches so low down as the styloid process, and the lower articular surface of the radius. The Radius.—The radius, tigs. 53 to 57, the outer of the two bones of the fore-arm, is remarkably adapted, both by its form and connexions, to its special office of rotating against the ulna, around its own longitudinal axis, which conforms with a line passing vertically through the capitellum of the humerus, and the lower end, or head of the ulna. In this movement, it carries the hand into the two positions, named pronation and supination, pronation being when the palm, and supination, when the back of the hand is turned downwards. The upper end, or head of the radius, figs. 53, 54, 56, is fashioned, above, into a shallow, circular cup-shaped cavity, which articulates with the capi- tellum, on the outer part of the complicated lower articular surface of the humerus, the two bones being in most complete contact in the semi-flexed position of the fore-arm. Below the rim of this cup, and extending all round the bone, is a smooth, flattened, annular border, which is continuous with the cup-like surface above. On its inner half, this convex border, turned towards the ulna, deepest at its middle part, is nearly vertical, and fits into the con- cave, transversely oblong, lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, with which it articulates, and in which it is easily rotated; the outer half, less deep, and having its convex surface inclined obliquely inwards as it descends, is adapted to the inner surface of the orbicular ligament, which embraces it, and ties it to the ulna. Below this articular border, the radius becomes constricted, to form the nech, which is straight, nearly cylindrical, but slightly flattened in front and behind, smooth, and inclined inwards and forwards as it descends. Below the neck, begins the shaft, and at the junction of the two, on the ulnar aspect of the bone, when the fore-arm and hand are in the midposition between pronation and supination, is the large oblong bicipital tubercle, or bicipital tuberosity, figs. 53, 55, which affords insertion, by its posterior and more prominent part, to the flattened tendon of the biceps muscle of the arm, a bursa being interposed between the tendon and the anterior smoother portion of the tuberosity. When the hand is pronated, and the radius rotated inwards, its tuberosity is turned backwards, so that, in the skeleton, it