324 THE MUSCLES. diaphragm on both sides, above ; the liver touches its under concave surface, chiefly on the right side, but also, to a slight extent on the left; the stomach and spleen reach it still further on the left; the kidneys touch its hinder portions, on both sides. The circumferential parts of the diaphragm being muscular, and the central part tendinous, the former, when they contract, become less arched or nearly straight, and are drawn inwards, away from the spine and the lower border of the thorax, and, at the same time, cause the central tendon to become flattened, and to descend; in this way, the cavity of the thorax is temporarily elongated. The diaphragm is, therefore, an inspiratory muscle ; for the enlargement of the thorax, caused by its descent, and by the elevation and outward rotation of the ribs, through the action of the other muscles of inspiration, is followed by the entrance of air along the windpipe and its branches, into the lungs. This air is again expelled during expiration, when the chest walls fall in, and the diaphragm ascends. After a full inspiration, the air is sometimes held in the chest by the closure of the glottis, in the larynx, and then the thoracic walls are rendered firmer, as a preparation for efforts to be made with the upper limbs. When the diaphragm descends, the contents of the abdomen are pushed downwards and forwards, and the abdominal walls become more prominent in front; in expiration, the viscera of the abdomen again ascend, and the walls of that cavity fall back. Triangularis sterni, fig. 161, ^'Deep; separate, small bundles forming an open triangular sheet; divergent, from below upwards, behind the sternum and costal cartilages. Back of the xiphoid appendix and lower part of the body of the sternum lower borders and deep surfaces of most of the costal cartilages of the true ribs. It is subject to great variety in different subjects ; its lowest bundles are nearly horizontal, and appear as if continuous with the transverse muscle of the abdomen. By some, they are said to be expiratory in their action, but others maintain a contrary view. Soaleni, posticus, inedius, and anticus, figs. 147, 149. Deep seated; named from their resemblance in form to a scalene triangle; oblique, downwards, outwards and forwards, from the cervical region of the spine to the first and second ribs. Scalenus posticus, the smallest, transverse pro- cesses of the two or three lower cervical vertebrae second rib, between the tubercle and angle, in front of the levator muscle. Scalenus medius, the largest, posterior tubercles of the six lower cervical transverse processes rough elevation on the first rib, in front of the tubercle. Scalenus anticus fig. 149, anterior tubercles of the third to the sixth cervical transverse processes scalene tubercle and ridge, on the upper surface of the first rib. The scaleni, acting from the neck, elevate, or, at all events, fix the upper ribs, and are, therefore, adjuvant inspiratory muscles. Acting from the ribs, of which the first one is the most fixed, they incline the neck forwards and to