395 THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. intermediate tendon. Behind the notch in the upper border of the scapula (w/ioy, the top of the shoulder), and the neighbom-ing ligament body of the hyoid bone. This peculiar muscle presents many varieties, especially in its inferior portion. Usually, this portion is partially seen, crossing the posterior triangle of the neck, a little above the collar-bone ; the intermediate tendon is covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is held in its angular position by a special fold of the cervical fascia ; the superior fleshy portion is superficial in the anterior triangle of the neck. The omo-hyoid muscle depresses the hyoid bone, and also draws it backwards; it is concerned in swallowing, and es- pecially in the act of suckling, as may be seen in infants. It also acts in the spasmodic choking and swallowing efforts, which accompany certain painful emotions, during which, the larynx itself ascends, whilst the hyoid bone is fixed, or even drawn downwards. The Elevator Group, figs. 186, 187, 190.—This consists essentially of the mylo-hyoid, the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscles. Mylo-hyoideus, figs. 186, 187, Partly superficial, partly crossed by the digastric muscle; broad, triangular, its base being attached to the lower jaw, and its apex to the hyoid bone ; stretched beneath the tongue and the cavity of the mouth, to which it forms a sort of floor. Mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the jaw, from the symphysis backwards, to opposite the last molar tooth the anterior and middle fasciculi end along a median fibrous raphe, and join the fibres of the opposite muscle at an acute angle ; the posterior fibres only are attached to the hyoid bone. It draws the hyoid bone and its appendages upwards and forwards ; but if that bone be fixed, it aids in depressing the lower jaw, and in opening the mouth, as in yawning. The proper muscles of the tongue, of which one only, the hyo-glossus, is partially exposed behind the mylo-hyoid, are placed above the mylo-hyoid muscle. Digastricus, figs. 186, 187, 190, Superficial, except where it is covered by the sterno-mastoid ; consists, as implied by its name, of two fleshy portions or belHes, posterior and anterior, joined by an intermediate rounded tendon ; the posterior portion,'^, passes downwards, forwards and inwards, be- tween the mastoid process of the temporal bone and the hyoid bone, the anterior portion,'^','pa.sses, thence, upwards, forwards and slightly inwards, to the back of the symphysis of the lower jaw, the intermediate tendon situated at the obtuse angle between them, passing through the lower end of the tendon of insertion of the stylo-hyoid muscle, by which, and by a sling of tendi- nous tissue lined by a synovial membrane, it is held to the body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The posterior portion, from the digastric fossa on the inner side of the mastoid process, the anterior portion, from a rough depression on the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis