THE MUSCLES. 336 be attached in a thick mass, to an impression on the deep surface of the inferior angle of the scapula. These lower digitations, interlock or interdigi- tate, at their origin, with the alternately disposed digitations of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, fig. 166. The scapular attachment of the middle portion of the great serratus, is separated from that of the rhomboideus major, along the base of the scapula, by a narrow margin of bone and tendon only, as may be shown by lifting the scapula away from the side of the thorax, fig. 157. This muscle, like others belonging to the shoulder-girdle, is subject to varieties of size, form, and connexions; thus, it may have additional origins from the ninth and tenth ribs ; or some of its lower digitations, or, especially, its uppermost one, may be wanting : it may be divided into two or three distinct parts; it is, not unfre- quently, connected by fleshy slips, with the external ob- lique muscle, the external intercostals, or the levator anguli scapulae. Acting from the thorax, the great serratus draws the scapula downwards, outwards, and forwards; if its action be controlled by the rhomboids, it carries the scapula hori- zontally outwards and for- wards ; so, inversely, if the serratus controls the rhom- boids, these latter draw that bone directly inwards and backwards. Conjointly, these two muscles maintain the scapula in close application to the walls of the thorax, and so impart to it a firmness as a fulcrum of support to the humerus, whatever may be its change of position. The lower part of the muscle co-operates, also, with the trapezius, in rotating the scapula, and elevating the point of the shoulder. Acting from the thorax, the serratus is called into play in fencing, when the raised arm requires to be outstretched; and in pushing, in which it exerts considerable force. Acting from the scapula, it assists, like all the muscles which connect the trunk with the upper limb, in drawing the body upwards, or forwards, as in climbing, and in swimming ; it likewise helps to suspend the body, during the use of crutches. In quadrupeds, the Fig. 157.- -The Great Serratus Muscle, with the Scapula lifted from the chest.