THE MUSCLES. 314 thicker inner border, in front of which, is an elongated and slightly convex surface, due to the edges of the deep posterior group of muscles, lying close to the posterior border of the tibial surface-furrow. Upon the back of the soleus, are seen, when the gastrocnemius is in action, two curved lines or markings, or rather changes of form, convex towards either border of the leg, which indicate the free borders of the two fleshy bellies of the gastrocnemius. The greater length, breadth and prominence of the inner, as compared with the outer of these fleshy masses, the lower position and more abrupt form of the termination of the inner one on the common tendon of insertion, the position of the two foliated tendons higher up, the differences between them, and the characteiistic longitudinal roll dependent on the median fleshy fasciculi issuing from between the hamstrings, are all plainly responsible for like forms on the surface. The projection of the calf is seen to be situated higher up, and to be more gently curved, as viewed from the outer than from the inner side of the leg, where it is not only lower down and more angular in form, but also stands out further backwards. In action, the lower edge of the inner belly especially, does not simply become more convex, but its foliated tendon becomes flatter, and the fleshy part more angular. The broad, but downward tapering tendon of the two muscles of the calf, and its continuation as the tendo Achillis, are well known characteristics of the surface of the back of the leg, as this joins on to the heel. The inner margin of the tendo Achillis may be traced from above the os calcis, descending in a nearly straight line, coincident with the inner border of that bone; whilst the outer margin of the tendon, on the contrary, curves outwards, as it spreads to gain the bone, the border of which it meets, therefore, at an angle. The presence of the slender tendon of the plantaris, which usually appears close to the inner margin of the tendo Achillis, may assist in determining the form along that margin. Lastly, the tendo Achillis, though not included beneath the annular ligament itself, is, nevertheless, so bound down by the fascia, that when the foot is straightened on the leg, it follows the tibia and fibula, whilst the heel itself projects prominently backwards. On either side of the lower part of the tendon, where it passes over, but is not fixed to the bone, are slight pro- minences due to the bone itself, covered with fat. In front and on each side of the tendon, at the back of the ankle joint, is also much fatty tissue, which becomes pressed out by the astragalus, and projects on each margin of the tendon, when the foot is bent up against the leg. Fat also fills the depression in the bony framework, seen opposite the so-called sinus pedis. Strong transverse folds or creases appear in the skin in front of the ankle, when the foot is bent up. Elsewhere on the leg, the skin and the subcutaneous fat present nothing peculiar to note, except about the knee, as will be presently noticed. Ascending from behind the internal malleolus, is the lower end of the