THE MUSCLES. 284 The Anterior Group, figs. 133, 134.-This includes the anterior tibial muscle, the proper extensor of the great toe, the long^ extensor of the four outer toes, and the third or anterior peroneal muscle. The tendons of these muscles have already been traced in the foot; those of the first and last-named muscles, extending only to the pro- tarsus, those of the second and third, reaching to the toes. Tibialis anticus, figs. 133, 134, 138, Superficial; thick and fleshy above, tapering downwards, and ending below the middle of the leg, obliquely, on a strong flat tendon, which appears on the front and inner side of the muscle ; vertical in the leg, at first between the tibia and the long extensor of the toes, then in front of the tibia, afterwards obliquely, downwards forwards and inwards beneath the anterior annular liga- ment, over the astragalus and scaphoid, to the inner border of the protarsus. Outer tuberosity and upper half or more of the external surface of the shaft of the tibia, adjacent part of the interosseous membrane, intermuscular septum between it and the long extensor of the toes, and, near its upper end, the strong fascia of the leg inner and under edge of the internal cuneiform bone, and inner side of the base of the first metatarsal bone. Acting from above, in free movements, this muscle assists in extending the protarsus, but it flexes the whole foot upon the leg ; it also adducts the protarsus and the entire '^lUUI foot, so as to point the toes inwards; alone, but especially with the tibialis posticus, it elevates the inner border of the foot and so inverts or turns the sole inwards, the movements produced occurring not only at the transverse joint of the foot, but between the astragalus and os calcis, and, also, though slightly, at the ankle joint. In stepping forward, this muscle helps to raise the foot from the ground. Acting from below, in forced movements, as in standing, it co-operates with the two extensors of the toes, and the Fig. 133.—Muscles of the Leg; , ^. . , . j.u i u Auteiior Group. peroneus tertius, m drawmg the leg bones