THE JOINTS. 206 movements are ultimately stopped by the locking together of the bones, as, for" example, by the great tuberosity of the head of the humerus striking against the acromion process, and by the olecranon and coronoid ^Drocesses of the ulna, as well as the head of tlie radius, coming into contact with their respective fossae on the humerus. But, in these cases even, there is no perceptible col- lision experienced in the joint, and there is no pain, as if from nipping of the capsule, synovial membrane, or periosteum ; and it is far more probable, that, unless under circumstances of extreme violence, the ligaments control the movements, just before act ual contact of the bony prominences can take place. The fitting of the bones one into the other, has reference to the steadiness of the joint, and is a good example of the mutual adaptation of the forms of neighbouring parts due to organic modelling and growth. The changes in the relative positions of the different parts of the body, or limbs, which take place, in consequence of movement at the joints, are not merely mechanically useful and interesting, but they give rise to great varieties in the general attitude and form. These, and the numerous altera- tions of local form which occur chiefly in the neighbourhood of the joints of the limbs, require to be specially studied by the artist upon the living model. Space does not permit of their separate consideration here. Most of such local changes depend on the shifting of the position of the bones, but some, on the tightening or relaxation of tendons over or near the joints. Many, however, are due to the drawing in by means of deep connexions, or to the pressing- in by the atmosphere acting everywhere on the body, of loose synovial folds or fringes, and outlying fatty masses, into the recesses of a joint in certain positions of a limb, these being forced out again from their retire ment in other positions, by the altered direction of the bones and by the ten- sion of the surrounding ligaments, tendons or muscles. This is particularly the case behind and in front of the two malleoli, about the front and sides of the knee, and at the back of the elbow. It may even be said that the fatty tissue herein fulfils an important office; for as, owing to the shapes of the bones, some tissue must be drawn or pressed in or out, during the action of most of the joints, fat is the most suitable tissue to be so displaced. Other remarkable changes are due to the obliquity of most articular sur- faces, and to accompanying slight yieldings of the ligaments, in consequence of which, the successive segments of the limljs do not move upon each other entirely in one plane, but in continually changing planes ; and, thus, new combinations of lines are ever presenting themselves in the living figure. Just as the slight curvatures and twistings in the long bones, are a source of variety and elegance, in the stationary condition of the body and the limbs, so the oblique movements and positions accomplished and assumed,'owing to the shape of the surfaces in the joints, are the causes of many graces of outline and form, in pose and action. Moreover by an associatio-ii of different