THE MUSCLES. 346 tendons, all of which converge to one strong, pointed and folded tendon below ; the hinder processes of the naascle, somewhat thin and flat, pass obliquely outwards, forwards and downwards, the middle processes, fuller, descend vertically, the anterior processes, thicker and more prominent, pass obliquely outwards, backwards and downwards, to the chief subdivisions of the common tendon. Lower lip of the spinous process of the scapula, along nearly its whole length, outer and anterior border of the acromion process, and lower border and anterior surface of the outer third of the clavicle triangular rough V-shaped surface, or deltoid impression, just above the middle of the outer side of the shaft of the humerus. The extensive origin, the vast number of ultimate fasciculi and fibres, and the mode in which the outer processes of the muscle especially, turn down, so as to be almost perpendicular to the surface of their attachment, are conditions, which compensate, as it were, for the disadvantageous direction of the muscle, in reference to the axis of motion of the humerus at the shoulder joint. The anterior portion of the deltoid is rendered more prominent than the posterior, by the immediately subjacent and large head of the hume- rus, which, owing to the position and direction of the glenoid cavity, is placed in advance of the point of the acromion process. The posterior border of the deltoid, fig. 16.3, thin and straight, is bound down to the fascia covering the infra-spinatus, which muscle, as well as the teres minor and major, it crosses over; its anterior border, fig. 165, thicker and somewhat convex, is placed along the upper and outer margin of the greater pectoral muscle, an intermuscular marking existing between them, which opens upwards beneath the clavicle into the small triangular depression or coracoid furrow, elsewhere described. The long, scapular and clavicular line of origin of the deltoid, corresponds, as already stated, precisely with the equally long line of insertion of the trapezius; these are, indeed, associated or congener muscles, separated only by a narrow osseous zone, formed by the intermediate parts of the spinous and acromion pro- cesses of the scapula and of the outer third of the clavicle. The deltoid muscle raises the arm directly from the side, and brings it into a nearly horizontal position, or at almost a right angle with the trunk ; any further elevation of the upper limb is accomplished by a lifting upwards of the clavicle and Fig. 165.—Deltoid Muscle from the front.