1G3 THE BONES OF THE P^ACE. connected with the nasal bones, and the vomer or proper median bone of the nose, and also with the lacrymal, superior maxillary, and palate bones. Certain parts of it are very largely developed, in some mammalia. The Bones of the Face. Of the bones of the face, the vomer or proper bony septum of the nose, and the two turbinated bones, are situated in the nasal cavities, within which the edges of both are just visible, fig. 63; the palate bones complete the back part of the hard palate, fig. 61, and also reach the sides of the nasal cavities and the orbits, in which latter, the lacrymal bones, fig. 62, L, some- times named, from their thinness, the ossa unguis (unguis, the nail) are also seen; to the lacrymal bones, the tendon of the little tensor tarsi muscle of the eyelids is attached. There remain the malar bones, the superior maxillaries, the nasal bones, and the loiver jaiu bone, which actually appear on the outer surface of the bony framework of the face. The Malar Bones.—The malar bones or cheek bones, figs. 61, 62, 63, M, are the two thick, irregularly quadrangular bones, which underlie the prominent portion of the cheeks, and which become so plainly discernible in emaciated persons ; they also pass backwards, to assist in forming the zygomatic arches, and likewise complete the floor, the outer wall, and the outer border of the orbit. Each malar bone consists of a central part or bodt/, of an orbital plate, and of three processes, one running upwards, one backwards, and one forwards. The body of the bone is prominent on its outer side, where it forms the malar eminence, which is broad, unevenly convex and partly subcutaneous; it is crossed by a nearly horizontal ridge, which divides it into a narrower lower surface, giving origin to the two zygomatic muscles and, in front of these, to the levator labii superioris, and a broader upper surface, somewhat depressed, which becomes continuous with the superior process of the bone. This superior or frontal process, &gs. 62, 63, is the broadest and longest of the three ; it ascends to join, by a jagged surface, the external angular process of the frontal bone, to complete the outer border of the orbit, and to unite the cranium and the face. This part of the orbital border is incurved, so as, with the depression in the adjacent part of the body of the bone, to increase the range of vision in the outward and downward direction; upon this portion of the malar bone, the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle rests. The posterior or zygomatic process, fig. 62, is the shortest of the three ; it passes backwards, and is bevelled off obliquely, beneath the anterior extremity of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, which there rests upon it, the junction of the M 2