376 THE MUSCLES. penniform; longitudinal on the radial borders of the flexor tendons, down- wards to the same side of the fingers. Eadial or outer sides of the deep flexor tendons, close to the annular ligament, the two inner ones, also from the ulnar sides of the tendons for the middle and ring fingers radial margins of the aponeurotic expansions of the extensor tendons on the backs of the first phalanges of the fingers. These small muscles feebly flex the fingers at their base, making them also turn, and rotate slightly, towards their radial borders, that is, towards the thumb, as they become bent. It is said that, when the deep flexor is fixed, they may aid in extending the second and last phalanges. It may further be suggested, that these little muscles, acting from their insertions, may help to slide the deep flexor tendons in the chan- nels formed for them by the superficial tendons, when the fingers are rapidly extended ; it is to be noted, that, both in the hand and foot, they are confined to the digits in which the deep tendon perforates a channelled passage in the superficial tendon; for they are absent in the thumb and great toe, the long tendons of which are free from that condition of restraint. The palmar fascia, and palmaris brevis muscle, fig. 182, ®^ The palmar fascia, like the plantar fascia, consists of a very dense central portion, and of two lateral, thinner portions. The central portion, fig. 182, is thick, white, and triangular or fanshaped; it is narrow, above, where it is blended with the anterior annular ligament, and is continuous with the expanded end of the slender tendon of the palmaris longus, ; it is broad below, and divided into four processes, which are prolonged on the digital sheaths for the flexor tendons, and are connected together by transverse fibres, which form arches over those tendons and the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles. Other interdigital bands are connected with the deep transverse metacarpal ligament; whilst others, again, form a'superficial transverse ligament, which extends into, and supports, the webs between the fingers. The thinner lateral portions of the palmar fascia, cover the muscles of the ball of the thumb and of the little finger, and are continuous, at the borders of the hand, with the dorsal fascia. Intermuscular septa pass from the palmar fascia, between the several muscles of the palm. Palmaris brevis, figs. 182, 185, Superficial and cutaneous; a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, composed of several bundles; transverse over the inner part of the palm. Annular ligament and central part of the palmar fascia under siu-face of the skin, along the inner border of the palm. This muscle has no connexion with the skeleton ; it is sometimes very thin and scattered. It wrinkles the skin on the inner border of the hand, thus increasing the depth of the hollow of the palm. The annular ligaments of the wrist, figs. 173, 174, 178-185. The anterior annular ligament, figs. 173, 174, 178 to 181,", is a strong fibrous band, continuous above with the fascia of the fore-arm, below with the palmar