THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. 413 the last-named muscle, draws the cheek upwards, at the same time pushing the lower eyelid up, as occurs in crying. Zygomaticus major, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial, except where overlapped, above, by a very large orbicularis palpebrarum, but always embedded in the fatty part of the cheek ; a slender, fleshy band ; oblique, downwards, forwards and inwards, between the cheek bone and the mouth, crossing over the masseter and buccinator miiscles. Outer side of the malar bone angle of the mouth, blending with the orbicular, the triangular, and the depressor muscles. It draws the corner of the mouth backwards, and a little upwards; it is the laughing muscle, or muscle of joy. Zygomaticus minor, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial, excepting at its origin; a small elongated bundle, sometimes subdivided; oblique, down- wards, forwards and inwards, a short distance above and in front of the greater zygomatic. Anterior surface of the malar bone, under cover of the orbicularis palpebrarum outer border of the levator labii superioris, near the corner of the mouth. It assists in drawing the outer part of the upper lip, but not the corner of the mouth, up- wards, outwards and backwards; it acts in produc- ing the expression of sadness, not of joy. Depressor anguli oris, or triangularis oris, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial; flat, triangular, its base below; converging upwards, and a little inwards. External oblique line of the lower jaw angle of the mouth, by its apex, which here j,,^ i97.-Deep Muscles of blends with the risorius, the zygomaticus major, the Nose and Lips, in ' •'^ ' section, orbicularis, and the levator anguli oris, with which latter some of its fasciculi decussate. It draws the corner of the mouth downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. It is essential to the expression of sadness or grief. Depressor labii inferioris, or quadratus menti, figs. 186, 187, 193, Superficial, except at its outer and lower part, where it is covered by the triangularis oris; flat, broad, quadrilateral; oblique, upwards and inwards, meeting its fellow muscle in the middle line above, but separated from it below, by the levator menti. External oblique line of the lower jaw, from outside the mental foramen, forwards, towards the symphysis the substance of the lower lip blending with its fellow, with the orbicular muscle, and, slightly, with the facial part of the platysma myoides. Its fasciculi are much mixed with fat. It draws the half of the lower lip downwards and a little outwards; the two muscles draw the lip directly down, and also evert it. It is said to aid in expressing irony, or to be even sufficient by itself for that purpose.