264 THE MUSCLES, altered, owing to the extreme flexion and rotation of the radius, and tlie shifting backwards of the lower attachment of the muscle, so that it is now almost parallel with that of the shaft of the humerus. The several conditions above described, are accompanied by simultaneous alterations in the shape of the muscle on all sides ; for, as it has a solid form, it must undergo change in every direction, and thus must influence the surface-forms on the inner as well as the outer aspect of the forearm. Moreover, the muscle may be in a simple state of tonic contraction, or in a condition of active contraction at all stages as to length. Lastlj^, the order of the changes may be reversed. These changes in the form and position of a muscle, and in the position of its tendon or tendons, are primary or intrinsic, due to the action of the muscle itself; but they frequently produce S3Condary or incidental changes in surrounding parts, and are furthermore accompanied by complementary changes in neighbouring or opposed muscles, which must not be lost sight of, as regards their effect on the local forms. For example, the two tendons of origin of the biceps undergo very slight change of position, the shoulder-joint, in the cases shown in the figures, being supposed to remain stationary ; but the fleshy mass and the tendon of insertion are much more displaced, both longitudinally and from before backwards. Hence, the antero-posterior diameter of the arm is increased in the second position of the biceps, fig. 122, not entirely as a consequence of the altered shape of the muscle, but also of its slight forward displacement. At the same time, the brachialis anticus, which also contracts, moves forwards beneath it. Again, the pectoral and the deltoid muscles have their borders pressed forwards and their shape slightly altered by the displaced tendons which pass beneath them. Furthermore, when the biceps is in action, its antagonist muscle, the triceps at the back of the arm, figs. 166, 167, undergoes various complementa7'y changes, which, indeed, as most frequently happens, are very complicated. Thus, in fig. 121, the triceps is relaxed, quiescent, and only tonically contracted, yielding in such a way, as not to oppose the contemplated movement; its outline and that of the arm itself, are slightly concave above, because of the tendons in that situation ; it is gently convex lower down, opposite the thickest part of its middle fleshy portion ; and, lastly, it is depressed or concave below, over its broad flat tendon of insertion, the form of which is broken by a slight cutaneous fold. In fig. 122, the muscle is more relaxed, being to a certain extent actually stretched, and yet its posterior forms become more clearly pro- nounced through the skin, because, by the downward and forward movement of the olecranon process, the lower part of the entire muscle is brought nearer to the back of the humerus. In fig. 123, the muscle is still further stretched ; nevertheless, the general convexity of its hinder outline is again more marked, probably owing to some slight counter-effort, required to steady the ulna, for the supination movement of the radius upon it. This condition furnishes an