31 THE BONES OF THE FOOT. vertebrae and the patella are two-thirds ; and lastly, the entire skeletons are about one-eighth, the key figure of the same being one-tenth. It may be added that the scale adopted for the joints, is always one-third ; and that, in nearly all cases, the one used for the illustrations of the muscles, agrees with that employed for the bones of the same part; hence they may easily be compared. The Bones of the Foot. The sole of the foot, the part which is turned towards, and rests upon, the ground {solea, a sandal; solum, that which is set or solid), presents to view, in the skeleton, the under surface of every bone in the foot, except of the astragalus, a small portion only of which is here visible, on the inner side of the sole (fig. 7). The bones seen are the phalanges, the metatarsal bones, the three cuneiform bones, the scaphoid, the cuboid, and the os calcis. The dorsum or back of the foot, exhibits the whole of the upper surface of all these bones, excepting that of the os calcis, a great part of which is seen behind, but only small portions at the sides of the foot (fig. 8). In the sole, the astragalus is nearly hidden by the os calcis ; on the dorsum, the os calcis is partly hidden by the astragalus, which rests almost exclusively upon it. The astragalus is the highest bone of the foot, and the one which alone articulates with the bones of the leg. As to the inner or tibial border of the foot, it is formed, pro- ceeding from behind forwards, by the os calcis, a portion of the astragalus, the scaphoid, the internal cuneiform, the first metatarsal bone, and the two phalanges of the first or great toe (fig. 9). The outer or fibular border of the foot, examined in the like order, is composed of the os calcis, a small portion of the astragalus, the cuboid, the fifth metatarsal bone, and the three phalanges of the fifth or little toe (fig. 10). The Phalanges of the Toes.—The phalanges, figs. 7 to 10, considered generally, are much shorter, smaller, and more slender than the phalanges of the fingers, those of the great toe being, however, larger than those of the thumb. They are miniature long bones, each having a shaft and two extremities. The terminal or ungual phalanges of the four outer toes, are very small bones; that of the second toe is usually the broadest; that of the third, the longest of the four. They present, at the fore-part of their plantar surface, a rough horse-shoe-shaped eminence, for the attachment and support of the pulp of the corresponding toe ; the dorsal surface is smooth and convex, terminating behind in a transverse ridge, both the surface and ridge sup porting the nail; behind the ridge, is a small tubercle, for the insertion of the terminal portion of the extensor tendon; on the plantar aspect, is a broader ridge, for the insertion of the end of the long flexor tendon ; at the sides, are small tubercles, for the lateral ligaments. Their hinder end presents