223 THE JOINTS OF THE PELVIS. Movements.—Flexion is here the freest movement; next in point of free- dom, is abduction, then adduction, and, lastly, extension, which is the most limited, and is soon restrained by the tightening of the thick capsule and the accessory ligaments, in front of the joint, as occurs in standing at ease. In this posture, as just stated, the knee likewise is held tight by its ligaments, but the ankle joint is not so supported, for it is the seat of free balancing movements. Circumduction at the hip joint, is not so free as in the shoulder ; but rotation is more free, external rotation being more extensive than rota- tion inwards. The influence of atmospheric pressure in retaining the articular surfaces of joints in contact, lias been especially demonstrated by experiments on the hip joint ; and it appears that the forward move- ment of the freely-swayed lower limb in locomotion, is, in a great measure, pendulum-like, and in- dependent of muscular effort, ex- cept in so far as it is guided or checked by the muscles. Every movement of the^ head of the femur in the acetabulum, is reciprocated by an opposite movement of the innominate bone, and, therefore, of the entire pelvic girdle, on the head of the thigh-bone. Thus, the backward movement of the pelvis, per- formed in standing upright, is equivalent to extension, and the forward movement in stooping, to flexion of the thigh ; the inclination of the pelvis, outwards or inwards, corresponds to abduction or adduction, of the thigh ; whilst the swinging of the pelvis horizontally forwards or backwards, is equivalent to rotation of the thigh inwards or outwards. The ligamentum • teres checks adduction of the thigh, or a sinking down of the pelvis upon the opposite side, and, possibly, also limits the reciprocal, horizontal rotatory movements of the femur and the pelvis on each other. Fig. 90.—Vertical section through the Hip Joint, showing the structure of the bones, the encrust- ing cartilage, the ligamentum teres, and the loose, folded capsule. The Joints of the Pelvis. At the symphysis pubis, the ovoid inter-articular Jibro-cartilage, thicker in front than behind, closely attached by ridges and furrows to the bones on either side, and often including an imperfect synovial cavity, fig. 88, is con- nected, by its edges, to the ligaments which surround the joint. The anterior