THE MOVEABLE VERTEBILE. 89 length and strength of the dorsal transverse processes, and their backward projection, enable them to afford suitable points of insertion and leverage to the longissimus dorsi, a part of the erectoj- muscle of the spine, which is thus attached well behind the centre of movement in the bodies of the vertebrae. These processes not only furnish a second basis of support to the ribs, except to the two lowest, but their backward projection permits of the ribs being- more curved, and therefore stronger, and better adapted to the movements of respiration ; it further increases the backward space in the thoracic cavity ; and, lastly, by throwing the hinder part of the thorax, and even the scapulae .and their muscles, backwards, it brings more of the weight of the trunk over the base of support, the upper surface of the sacrum. The lateral projection of the dorsal transverse processes, increases from below upwards ; but their backward extension is greater in the lower and middle part of the region, and diminishes in the upper part. The transverse processes of the twelfth vertebra, incline downwards; those of the eleventh, and tenth, are nearly horizontal; whilst, from and above the ninth, they gradually incline more and more upwards, a direction which enables them better to meet the ribs with which they articulate, for these are always attached to the upper margin of the body of the same vertebra, and, except the twelfth, eleventh and first ribs, to the lower margin of the body of the vertebra above. In the cervical region, figs. 28, 29, the transverse processes are short and slender, project outwards and a little forwards, on each side, and are nearly horizontal, in- clining, however, slightly downwards. Excepting those of the seventh, second and first vertebrae, they are grooved on their upper surface, and bifurcated at their ends, where they present two tubercles for the attachment of the muscles, which here become more complex. The base of the transverse processes of the seventh cervical vertebra, usually has a small perforation in it, but, in all the other vertebrae, these processes have a large foramen through their base, for the transmission of the vertebral artery, which ascends to the brain. The larger part of the process, behind this foramen, springs from the vertebral arch, and resembles the transverse process of a dorsal or lumbar vertebra; but tlie smaller part, in front of the foramen, proceeds from the body of the vertebra, like a rib, of which it has been regarded as the capitular portion or head, whilst the portion of bone which completes the foramen externally, has been supposed to represent the tubercle of the rib. That the part of each transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, situated in front of the small foramen, contains, at least, parts of a rudimentary rib, seems certain; for, sometimes, supernumerary ribs are found attached to this vertebra, one on each side, replacing the parts of the transverse processes situated in front of the foramina. It is presumable that this may also be true, in regard to the other cervical transverse processes. The fom- articular processes belonging to each vertebra, two inferior and