THE JOINTS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 237 humerus, and, therefore, of the fore-arm, as the joint is alternately flexed or extended; thus, in extension, the fore-arm is directed downwards and out- wards, and forms, with the arm, a very obtuse angle, projecting on the inner side of the elbow ; whereas, in flexion, the fore-arm gradually passes into the same plane as the arm itself, and may even fold across it to its inner side. Here, also, the effect of obliquity of line and action, in imparting grace, is very apparent. The attachment of the lower end of the external lateral liga- ment to the orbicular ligament of the radius, and not to that bone itself, permits the rolling movement of the latter, whilst it does not lessen the security of the elbow-hinge. An arrange- ment somewhat similar, but not so perfect, takes place with the posterior longitudinal ligamentous fibres of the hip joint, where these end on the orbicular ligament. The Radio-ulnar Joints. — The superior radio- vlnar joint, the pivot or rolling joint formed between the upper ends of the radius and ulna, figs. 102 to 109, is enclosed by the capsule of the elbow joint, with which it is continuous. The chief ligament is the strong orbicular or annular ligament, figs. 106, 107, 109, *, a flat band, forming nearly four-fifths of a ring, the ends of which are fixed, in front and behind, to the edges of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and to two slight ridges below them. Its upper and lower borders are connected with the capsule; its outer surface receives the lower end of the external lateral liga- ment ; its inner surface, smooth, and lined by the synovial membrane, embraces the side of the head of the radius; it is thickest behind. It assists in tying the radius to the ulna, so that the two bones move together, in using the elbow joint; but it provides for the safe rotation of the head of the radius upon the capitellum of the humerus, within the fibrous and bony ring formed by it, and by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; it also resists the traction of the powerful biceps muscle, which pulls forcibly on the radius, in bending or supinating the foi'e-arm, whenever any resistance is offered to these movements, as, for example, in carrying a heavy basket on the fore-arm. The shafts of the ulna and radius are connected, first, by the round, or oblique, ligament, fig. 109, which passes, downwards and outwards, from the front of the coronoid process of the ulna, to just below the bicipital tuberosity of the radius; and, secondly, by the interosseous membrane, most of the fibres of which run in the opposite direction to those of the round ligament, that is downwards and inwards, from the interosseous ridge of the radius to Fig. 109. — The Radio - ulnar .Joints, show- ing the orbicu- lar ligament,*, the oblique and the interosse- ous ligaments,, and the inter- articular car- tilage,t, below.