150 THE BONES. determinate and easily recognisable guide-point, to which all the more changeable forms of the palm may be referred. The hack of the hand, like the bony metacarpus itself, is convex from side to side. The dorsal surface of the fifth metacarpal bone is almost entirely subcutaneous, but the others are covered on this aspect by tendons, even near their lower ends, and are scarcely visible, except in thin hands ; they may even correspond with depressions, in fleshy and fat hands. The eminence on the base of the third metacarpal bone, is, frequently, very perceptible under the skin ; but this, like other prominent forms dependent on bony processes, if too strongly marked, constitutes a departure from beauty, though it may confer a character of strength upon the hand. The heads of the metacarpal bones, which support the fingers, form the first row of knuckles, of which that belong- ing to the middle finger is usually the most prominent, that of the index finger the next, then those of the fourth and fifth, the last being the least marked. The prominences of these knuckles, as well as those of the subsequent rows, are invariably formed by the distal ends of the proximal bones at each joint, and not by the proximal ends of the distal bones. Hence, when the fingers are bent, the first row of knuckles, like the heads of the metacarpal bones which form them, are always more or less rounded in their contour; the second row of knuckles, formed by the condyloid and trochlear distal ends of the first phalaiiges, have a nearly flat or square transverse outline, when the fingers are slightly flexed, but are even hollowed or concave, when the fingers are much bent, a form which is in strict accordance with the grooved shape of the trochlese of these little joints, and with the extreme amount of flexion possible at them; lastly, at the third or last row of knuckles, the transverse contour, when the joints are flexed, is flat, or very slightly hollowed, the trochlear grooves here being feebly marked. When the fingers are extended, all these joints are marked by depressions; those over the heads of the metacarpal bones are oval, and form elongated dimples in well-nourished hands; those over the interphalangeal articulations, are marked by transverse crescentic folds of the skin. The digital phalanges being, like the femur and the humerus, single long bones and free all round, more or less govern the general form of the fingers, giving to the first and second segments of the several digits, their slightly curved form from their base forwards, and, to the last segments, their peculiar shape as far down as the nails. The influence of the form of these bones, is especially apparent along the back of the fingers, over the dorsum of each phalanx, and, more particularly, at the back of the second phalanges, the little tubercles near the bases of which, also very frequently show as slight but special eminences, not to be detected on the first or third phalanges. In the hollowed palm of the hand, the four inner metacarpal bones are completely concealed by muscles, tendons, and fascia; but, nevertheless, the exact position of the heads of those bones, can be detected by the presence of