THE MUSCLES OF THE LEG. 287 behind, it enters a groove behind the malleolus with the tendon of tlie peroneus longus, and is then deflected and turns in the same compartment of the external annular ligament, obliquely downwards and forwards, through a separate sheath on the outer side of the os calcis, and thence along the side of the cuboid bone. Lower two-thirds of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula, adjacent intermuscular septa, and fascia of the leg prominent tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. This muscle helps to flex the protarsus, to extend the foot on the leg, to abduct the foot, and slightly to evert the sole; when the fore part of the metatarsus rests on the ground, it aids in raising the heel. Acting from below, it assists in drawing the leg back upon the astragalus, and steadying it in the vertical position, in standing. Feroneus longus, figs. 133, 134, 137, Superficial in the leg, but placed deeply, and close to the bones, in the sole of the foot; elongated and penniform, much longer, both in the leg and in the foot, than the last named muscle, its fibres ending obliquely about the middle of the leg, much sooner in front than behind, on a very long tendon, which is thickened and even fibro-cartilaginous, behind the external malleolus ; in the leg, vertical, as low as the groove behind the external malleolus, covering the fibula above, and the short peroneus lower down, and placed between the long extensor and the soleus muscles, but below the malleolus, its tendon is deflected, and turns ob- liquely, downwards and forwards, passing beneath the external annular ligament, below the peroneal tubercle on the outer side of the os calcis, and under cover of the abductor of the little toe, reaches the under surface of the cuboid bone, and is, finally, directed obliquely across the sole of the foot, supported against the bones, in a strong sheath, formed partly by the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. Head and upper two thirds of the outer surface of the fibula, adjacent intermuscular septa, and superjacent fasciaof the leg under surface of the internal cuneiform, but chiefly the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, a slip occasionally going to the second metatarsal bone. When the foot is free and extended, this muscle first flexes the protarsus, and then extends the foot upon the leg; it also depresses the inner, and raises the outer border of the foot, and so everts the sole. Like the peroneus brevis, operating from behind the external malleolus, it assists in steadying the leg upon the foot, in standing. Moreover, acting round the outer border of the foot, upon the fibula, it prevents the leg being inclined too much inwards; lastly, in the propulsion of the body forwards, in walking, it presses the ball of the great toe firmly against the ground. The Deep Posterior Group, fig. 135, &c.—This includes the posterior tibial muscle, the long flexor of the great toe, and the long flexor of the four outer toes.