THE BONES. 86 is but one half-facet at the upper margin; and in the first or highest dorsal vertebra, there is, on each side, a half-facet on the lower margin, and a complete facet on the body higher up. In the cervical vertebrae, figs. 28, 29, the bodies, speaking generally, are smaller than those of the back, the weight to be carried by them being less. Their transverse is in excess of their antero- posterior diameter, thus providing the required support, in lateral inclination of the neck, which is sometimes very considerable. The bodies of the lower five cervical vertebrae have, moreover, their upper surface shaped, from before backwards, like a shallow gutter, bounded on each side by a well-marked elevated lip, the surface of the vertebra next above, being bevelled off at each side, so that it fits into the recess on the one below. This peculiarity, which also exists on the upper surface of the body of the first dorsal vertebra, renders safer the free movements of this part of the vertebral column. The cervical bodies are rather thicker in the vertical direction in front, than at the back, in correspondence with the cervical curve, which is convex anteriorly. Not only the bodies, but all the other parts of the second and first cervical vertebrae, are so modified, that they will require special description. The arches of the moveable vertebrae, composed of the pedicles and laminae, are also thickest, deepest, and strongest in the lumbar region, fig. 32, and, speaking generally, they gradually become less massive in the dorsal, fig. 30, and cervical, fig. 28, vertebrse, in accordance with the less need of strength in the upper than in the lower parts of the spinal column ; nevertheless, the laminae are very deep in the dorsal region, and very wide quite at the upper part of the neck. Throughout the whole moveable portion of the spine, the upper and lower borders of the laminae are somewhat rough, and give attach- ment to the yellow ligaments. The spinal or vertebral foramen, or canal, (see figs. 28, 30, 32), does not follow the same general rule as the bodies, in reference to its size at different parts of the spine. Thus, it is large in the loins and lower part of the back, where it lodges the long and large roots of the spinal nerves of the lower limbs, and the corresponding enlargement of the spinal cord; it is smallest in the middle of the back, where it contains the smallest part of the spinal cord, and the roots of the comparatively small spinal nerves of the trunk ; it is again much larger in the neck, where it encloses the cervical enlargement of the cord, and the large roots of the spinal nerves of the upper limbs. In the loins, the canal is bluntly triangular, in the back, nearly circular, and again three-sided in the neck. Its dimensions and shape have an evident relation, not only to the size and form of its contents, but also to the necessity for affording to these, greater space in those regions of the spine, where the movements are freest, namely in the neck and loins. This explains the very large size of the canal opposite the upper two cervical vertebrae. The spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae, figs. 32, 33, are somewhat