420 THE MUSCLES. coloured portion of the eye is more concealed from view, whilst the upper portion of the white part becomes more visible. As to the human mouth, the absence of fibro-cartilage from the lips, renders it, as a feature, much more changeable than any other. It is set slightly back, between the nose and chin. The median lobe of the upper lip, its central furrow and ridges, and its two lateral arches, terminating, each, in a gentle curl, describe a form, having some resemblance to a relaxed Cupid's bow, supported by, and contrasted with the shorter, fuller, and more simply modelled lower lip, which, however, is slightly indented in the middle. Characteristic and beautiful, this part of the face is strikingly different to the protruding, but thin, meagre, and spout-like mouth of the anthropoid apes. The highly specialised muscular structures which govern its infinitely varied movements, not only adapt it to the requirements of a rapid and pure arti- culation of the labial sounds of speech, but explain the indescribably delicate shades of form and position, which serve to express its silent language. The Muscular System Considered Generally. As the mechanism of the human skeleton is obviously adapted to the erect attitude, so the fitness of the muscular system, generally, for raising the skeleton into that position, and maintaining it so, is very evident. In the completely recumbent position of the body, all the muscles, ex- cepting those engaged in the function of respiration, may be at rest; the limbs may assume any posture consistent with the-forms of their joints, the influence of gravity, and the nature of the supporting surface. The masses of the muscular groups merge into each other, and the fleshy forms of individual muscles glide into those of the tendons, ceasing to be clearly indicated on the surface. When permitted to do so, they even obey the effect of weight, and show a tendency to sink or hang down at any dependent or unsupported parts of the frame, or they yield to pressure, and become more or less displaced and distorted. In rising from a horizontal posture, the lower limbs are usually flexed, and the trunk is raised and brought forwards over them, the upper limbs assisting in this movement; the head is also thrown forward; the whole body is then moved, completely over the intended base of support, the feet; and, by a final effort, the ankle, knee, and hip joints are extended, the lower limbs are straightened above the feet, and the superincumbent weight is raised and balanced. The tendency of the»erect body to fall to the ground, if left unsupported by the muscles, is shown by what occurs in fainting or in falling asleep, in which states, the influence of gravity determines the head to drop forwards,