THE JOINTS. 204 nected with the capsules, which are thus drawn away from between the bones, in certain movements. The pulley-like joints are confined to the limbs. They occur between the phalanges of the toes and fingers, and at the ankle, knee, and elbow. The ankle, however, allows side movements, and the knee a limited rotatory motion, when these joints are bent; whilst the elbow joint, which is the most perfect hinge joint in the body, exhibits a slight, lateral looseness, when more or less flexed. The Ball-and-Socket Joints, Universal Joints, or Enar- throdia {ii^, in; apdpov, a joint).—These are formed by the reception of the rounded extremity or head of one bone, which represents a greater or a less part of a spheroid, into a cup-like cavity or socket, sometimes shallow, some- times deep, of another bone. These joints, therefore, exhi bit movements in all directions; that is to say, besides flexion and extension, they permit of movements from side to side, known as adduction and abduction, according as they occur towards, or from, the median plane of the body or of a limb ; of a combination of all four of these movements, which is named circumduction, and, in certain joints, of a movement of rotation of the distant bone upon its axis, likewise. Nor are these movements confined to a few directions, but they take place in all intermediate paths. The capsules and ligaments of the ball-and-socket joints are, for the most part, weak and loose, except on some special aspect where unusual strength is needed. These articulations are, more- over, immediately surrounded and protected by the tendons of the so-called capsular muscles, which are more numerous than those around other joints. The ball-and-socket joints are also restricted to the limbs. They include, in the lower limb, the joints between the first phalanges and the metatarsal bones ; that between the scaphoid and the head of the astragalus ; and the hip joint, which is the most perfect ball-and-socket joint in the body. In the upper limb, are the shoulder joint; the wrist joint, which, though resembling somewhat a hinge joint, is more than that, having very varied motions ; the articulation between the scaphoid and semi-lunar bones, and the head of the OS magnum ; the joint between the trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb, which, from the mutual adaptation of its alternating concavo-convex saddle-shaped surfaces, has been designated a reciprocal enarthrodial articula- tion ; and, lastly, the joints between the metacarpal bones and first phalanges of the fingers and thumb. The Pivot or Rolling Joints, or Diarthrodia Rotatoria (rota, a wheel).—These, which have also been designated lateral ginghjmoid arti- culations, consist of a sort of pivot belonging to one bone, received into a ring, formed, partly by another bone, and partly by ligament. The move-