12o THE HUMERUS. aspect, the trochlea is bounded above, by a slightly concave border; and, above that, is an oval fossa, much smaller and shallower than the olecranon fossa behind, named the coronold fossa, fig. 49, which receives the coronoid process of the ulna, during complete flexion of the fore-arm. The coronoid fossa and the olecranon fossa approach each other so closely, that the bone between them is extremely thin and translucent; it is usually not thicker than parchment (see fig. 108), and is sometimes even deficient or perforated. On the back of the humerus, the trochlea is inclined upwards, and a little to the outer side of the axis of the shaft; but, in front, its inclination upwards is towards the inner side of that axis. The capitellwm, or outer part of the articular surface, does not reach the back of the humerus, but commences only on the under surface, and is especially prolonged upwards on the front of the bone, so that it supports the radius most completely, in the position of semi-flexion of the fore-arm; it ends above in a convex border. Above that, is a small, transversely disposed, depression, separated from the coronoid fossa by a distinct ridge of bone, named the radial fossa, into which the border of the head of the radius is received, during complete flexion of the fore-arm. To the inner side of, and somewhat above the trochlear portion of the inner condyle, and directed slightly backwards, is the very prominent epi- trochlea. To tJie outer side of, and above the capitellum, on a lower level than the epi-trochlea, and bent slightly forwards, is the smaller and less pro- minent epi-condyle. The internal condyloid ridge, or epi-trochlear ridge, figs. 49, 52, is strongly curved, so as to become very prominent below, as is best seen from the front, but it is nearly straight when viewed on its inner aspect. It, somewhat rarely, presents a spur-like process, which may even join the bone again below, so as to form a foramen, a structure, which, it is interesting to note, existed more frequently in ancient races of men, and is natural in certain mammalia. This epi-trochlear ridge affords attachment to the in- ternal intermuscular septum, a layer of fascia placed between the muscles lying in front, and at the back, of the humerus ; to its anterior lip, the brachialis anticus is partly attached, and to its posterior lip, a small portion of the triceps muscle. To the large and prominent epi-trochlea itself, is fixed the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint; it also gives origin to some of the muscles in front of the fore-arm, namely, passing from above down- wards and inwards, the pronator radii teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the pal- maris longus, the flexor digitorura sublimis, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The exteimal condyloid ridge, or epi-condyloid ridge, fig. 51, is slightly curved, when seen from the front, but is very decidedly bent forwards, when seen from the side, following, as it were, the direction of the capitellum ; it gives attachment by its prominent margin, not only to the external inter- muscular septum, but also, by its anterior lip, to two muscles of the fore-arm.