321 THE MUSCLES OF THE TEUNK. multifidi spinee, and semi-spinales, rotate the spine, so that the trunk and neck are turned over to the opposite side ; they may also incline the spine sideways. If the muscles of the two sides co-operate, they extend the vertebral column, and so assist, though feebly, in maintaining the erect posture. The movements between any two adjacent vertebrae, pro- duced by these muscles, are slight, but in the aggregate they are evident enough. The muscles act, in the upright posture, as supports to the liga- ments, serving as contractile braces, to guard the spine from undue curva- ture. Recti postici and obliqui capitis. At the upper part of the neck, the deep vertebral muscles are replaced by, or rather developed into, special straight and oblique muscles, adapted to execute slight movements between the atlas and axis, and between the occiput and the atlas, such as occur, for example, in listening, and in the attentive exercise of the sense of sight. Rectus capitis posticus major, fig. 147, ®. Deep; flat, triangular; upwards and outwards. Spinous process of the axis inferior curved line of the occiput. Rectus capitis posticus minor, ''. Deep; triangular; nearly vertical. Back of the atlas, near the tubercle inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and between that and the foramen magnum. Obliquus capitis inferior, Deep; flat; upwards and outwards. Spinous process of the axis point of the transverse process of the atlas. Obliquus capitis superior, ^. Deep; triangular, flat; upwards and inwards. Transverse process of the atlas between the curved lines of the occiput, above the rectus posticus major. The rectus minor and the obliquus superior, draw the head down behind ; so, likewise, will the recti majores of the two sides, acting together. The rectus major and the obliquus inferior of one side, rotate the atlas, with the head, around the odontoid process, turning the face to their own side ; the two inferior obliqui and the two larger recti, when acting together, keep the head straight. The Prse-Vertebral Group, fig. 149.—This is limited to the upper dorsal and the cervical regions, and consists of the longus colli, rectus capitis anticus major and minor, and the rectus capitis lateralis. Longus colli, fig. 149,'^. Deep; divided into three portions, each composed of separate slips ; one vertical, and two oblique portions. Inferior portion, bodies of two or three dorsal vertebrae fifth and sixth cervical transverse processes; superior portion, third, fourth and fifth cervical transverse processes tubercle on anterior arch of the atlas ; middle portion, bodies of three upper dorsal, and three lower cervical vertebrae bodies of fourth, third and second cervical vertebrae. This muscle aids in rotating the neck, but chiefly acts in bringing it forwards. Rectus capitis anticus major, Deep; long and thick; converging towards the middle line. Anterior Y