THE MUSCLES. 364 of the palmaris longus, also covered in the palm and on the fingers, by the fascia and the sheaths of the tendons ; the broadest and thickest of the flexor group, arising, most extensively, from the humerus, ulna, and radius, its fasciculi terminating obliquely, somewhat below the middle of the fore-arm, upon four strong tendons; longitudinally down the front of the fore-arm, beneath the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, through the pakn, and along the front of the fingers, as far as the second phalanges. Inner condyle of the humerus, internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint, inner side of coronoid process of the ulna, and oblique line of the radius, down to the insertion of the pronator teres by four tendons, that for the little finger being the smallest, which pass through the palm onwards to the fingers, superficial to the tendons of the flexor profundus, but which split, opposite the first phalanges, to give passage to those tendons, then unite be- neath them, and, again dividing, are in- serted into the lateral ridges on the an- terior surface of the second phalanges. This is the flexor 'perforatus muscle. It first flexes the second phalanges of the fingers, then the first phalanges also, unless these are fixed by the action of the extensor muscle, and, lastly, it aids powerfully in bending the wrist. Its action in flexing the elbow, is very slight. Flexor digitorum profundus, figs. 172, 173, 174, 181, «^ Deep, except near its insertions ; a thick muscle, the fasciculi of which are gathered on the edges and under surfaces of four strong tendons, that for the forefinger being separate from the others; longitudinal in the fore-arm, passing beneath the anterior annular ligament and the palmar fascia, into the hand, and then along the fingers, in the digital sheaths, to the last phalanges. Front and inner surface of the upper two thirds of the ulna, ulnar half of the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane, and the Fig. 172.—The Superficial and Deep Flexors of the Fingers and Thiunb.