404 THE MUSCLES. the scalp being simultaneously drawn a little backwards; when this action becomes more energetic, the eyebrows are raised higher, and the skin of the forehead is thrown into transverse, sinuous folds and wrinkles, as in fear, or fright. These wrinkles appear across the direction of the muscular fasciculi, a condition common to the action of all the subcutaneous muscles of the face. The occipito-frontal muscles are the only ones which can raise the eyebrows; they are more or less controlled by the pyramidales nasi, and by the corru- gator muscles of the eyebrows, so that the outer end of the eyebrow can usually be elevated more than the inner end. In some persons, an asym- metrical lifting of one eyebrow is noticed, as an habitual trait in the face, usually, as will be found, on the side of the face corresponding with the stronger eye, or with the eye most used in attentive observation. Corrugator supercilii, fig. 196, Deep, close to the frontal bone; small, narrower below than above, dark coloured; oblique outwards and a little upwards. Inner end of the superciliary eminence deep surface of the middle of the eyebrow, blending with the frontal portion of the occipito- frontalis, and covered by the orbicularis palpebrarum. It draws the middle of the eyebrow inwards and slightly downwards, producing characteristic longi- tudinal furrows in the skin of the forehead, from the side of the root of the nose past the inner end of the eyebrow, across the direction of its fasciculi. It is the ' frowning' muscle (frons, froncer) ; and it expresses suflfering. The eyebrow itself, or supercilium, is composed of a cushion of fatty tissue, con- taining the roots of the hairs, and intermixed with muscular fasciculi. These hairs, at the inner part of the eyebrow, are short and stand out forwards and upwards, but they become gradually longer, to beyond the middle of the brow, and then again shorter; they are here recunibent or inclined, and arranged smoothly, so as to form a more or less perfect arch. The Auricular Group, figs. 186, 187, 193.—This includes three small muscles, the anterior, superior, and posterior auricular, otherwise named, the attrahens, attollens, and retrahens aurem. The auricle or external ear, fig. 190. This part, to which the three auricu- lar muscles are attached, surrounds the external auditory meatus or ear pass- age, and is also designated the pinna (a kind of shell). Its outer curved rim is named the helix {eXi^, a fold or roll), at the upper and hinder part of which, is often seen a small overlapping piece, said to represent, in a rudimentary state, the upward prolongation of the ear in certain animals; internal to and parallel with the helix, is a shorter, still more curved, and bifurcated ridge, the anti-helix; within this, is the concha (a shell), which leads into the meatus. A small eminence in front of the concha, and partly concealing the meatus, is named the tragus, its inner concave surface being sometimes shaggy with hairs, like a goat's beard (rpdyos, a goat);