THE MUSCLES. 288 Tibicdis posticus, figs. 135, 137, 138, 8, Deep, except a portion of its tendon, which is subcutaneous behind and below the internal malleolus; bifid and penniform, the fibres converging quickly to a strong median tendon ; vertical in the leg, resting on the tibia and interosseous membrane, the tendon being deflected at the groove on the back of the malleolus, beneath the internal annular ligament, and then curving forwards on the internal lateral ligament, and beneath the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, where it is often fibro-cartilaginous, and so enters the sole. Back of the tibia, from its oblique line down to near its lower end, almost the whole length of the interos- seous membrane, inner side of the fibula, excepting its lower fifth, adjacent intermuscular septa, and deep fascia tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, sending numerous and strong prolongations, to the neighbour- ing tarsal, and middle three metatarsal bones. This muscle flexes the protarsus, extends the foot on the leg, and likewise assists the tibialis anticus in adduct- ing these parts successively, and in inverting the sole. Taking its fixed point below, and co-operating with the other posterior muscles, it helps to maintain the upright posture, steadying the tibia on the astragalus, also to raise the leg from its forwardly inclined position in the stooping attitude, and, lastly, to press the foot on the ground, and straighten the leg upon the foot, so as to impart a forward propulsive move- ment to the body, in walking. Flexor longus poUicis, figs. 135, 137, 138, ^ Deep and covered, except behind the astragalus, in front of the tendo Achillis; elongated, its fibres ending on a tendon, which appears on the back of the muscle; nearly vertical in the leg, behind the fibula and interosseous membrane, its tendon being deflected along a deeply seated groove on the back of the lower end of the tibia, next through a groove on the astra- galus, and then beneath the sustentaculum tali of the OS calcis, into the sole of the foot, where it passes obliquely downwards and forwards, between the two parts of the short flexor of the great toe. Lower half or more of the back of the fibula, intermuscular septum between it and the peronei muscles, and fascia covering the tibialis posticus under side of the Fig. 135.—Muscles of the Leg; Deep Posterior Group.