174 THE BONES. which, formed by portions of the temporal, parietal, frontal, and sphenoid bones, and limited by the temporal ridges or curved lines on those bones, is filled in by the thick temporal muscle and temporal fascia, and is bounded in front, by the conjoined ascending process of the malar bone and external angular process of the frontal bone. The upper and fore parts of the temporal ridge are subcutaneous, and, in thin persons, form a curved edge, but, in muscular individuals, a slightly marked groove. The external frontal angle is also plainly evident, being covered only by a part of the thin orbicular muscle of the eyelids, and by skin. In the middle line behind, and just at the junction of the inner ends of the right and left superior curved lines of the occiput, the occipital protuberance determines the projection of the back of the head. Above this, the hinder part of the head, the whole of the vertex and the forehead, are covered only by the scalp including the occipito-frontales muscles and their aponeurosis ; so that, allowance being made for the smoothness produced by the covering of the scalp, the shape of the head has nearly exactly the same general and local forms, as the occipital, parietal, and frontal bones themselves. In bald persons, this is very obvious ; even the thickened borders of the lambdoidal and sagittal sutures are plainly traceable. Sometimes, the vertex, is some- what flattened, and, at other times, it is raised, like the roof of a house. Always there are seen, at a certain distance on each side of the middle line, above the curved border of the temporal fossae on the parietal bones, the two parietal eminences, which, as a rule, determine the place of greatest breadth of the head. Passing forward, is the smooth, convex upper part of the frontal bone, with its two frontal eminences; between and below these eminences, the bone is more or less depressed, in proportion to the size of the eminences themselves, and so is the forehead. Lower down, the superciliary eminences over the frontal sinuses, influence the surface forms, in a more or less marked manner in different persons, producing oblong elevations, oblique from within upwards and outwards, commencing on either side of the smooth glabella, with an inner and lower rounded form, and gradually becoming more pointed, and subsiding at their outer and upper ends. All these parts are recognisable on the living head, the surface modelling of which, when the sub- jacent frontal muscles are not in action, is strictly dependent upon them. On each side, the forehead is bounded by the external angular process, and adjacent curved line or temporal ridge of the frontal bone, which, as already stated, are nearly subcutaneous, the former being covered only by the orbicularis muscle. The sharp supra-orbital ridge, or upper border of the orbit, is, along its inner and upper parts, obscured by the thick eyebrow and its muscles; but towards the outer part, where it corresponds with the anterior edge of the external angular process of the frontal bone, it becomes much more prominent, and is covered only by the thin orbicular muscle of