100 THE BONES. The Bones of the Thoeax. The Eibs, Costal Caetilages, AND Sternum. The thorax or chest, figs. 26, 27, has for its osseous and cartilaginous framework, the twelve dorsal, rib-bearing vertebrae behind, the twenty-four rihs with their cartilages, at the sides, and the sternum or breast-bone in front. The ribs not only form the sides of the thorax, but assist in completing its walls, both in front and behind. The Ribs or CostaB.—These are long, flat, cm'ved bones, arranged twelve on each side, one below the other, so as to leave the intercostal spaces, eleven in number, between them. They vary in length, breadth, thickness, degree of curvature, and direction. All are fixed behind, to the dorsal vertebrse, and all are extended forwards, by the bluish-white, elastic, costal cartilages, which may be regarded as unossi- fied portions of the primitive cartilaginous ribs. Sometimes, there is an additional pair of ribs in the neck, and, sometimes, in the loins ; occasionally, the twelfth pair is want- ing. It almost requires an apology for stating that the normal number of the ribs is the same on botli sides of the chest, in both sexes. Setting aside the three lower and the two upper ribs, the general form of these bones, fig. 39, may be thus described. Each has, at its hinder or vertebral end, a slightly enlarged part, named the head, which is adapted, by means of two small, oblique, articular surfaces, to two corresponding facets, situated on the upper and lower margins of the bodies of two adjacent dorsal vertebra?; the rib facets are separated by a rough intervening ridge, which is connected, by a strong ligament, with the corresponding intervertebral disc. To the head, succeeds a short, narrower, pris- matic part, somewhat compressed from before backwards, called the neck; this is smooth on its thoracic aspect, but is roughened along its upper margin, and also behind, for the ligaments tying it to the transverse processes of the two dorsal vertebrse, with which it is connected. The neck Fig. Sd.—Upper view of sixth Rib, witli its cartilage. Fig. 40.—Upper view of first Rib, witii its cartilage. Fig. 41 Upper view of last Rib.