396 THE MUSCLES. side and greater cornu of the hyoid bone, by the intermediate tendon and its sling. The anterior portion of the muscle is shorter than the posterior one. The posterior portion is very deeply seated, beneath the parotid salivary gland ; the submaxillary salivary gland is placed, beneath the jaw, in the angle above its tendon, resting partly on the mylo-hyoid muscle. "When the hyoid bone is held down, the digastric muscle, both portions acting, depresses the jaw, and thus opens the mouth wide ; but if the jaw be held up and fixed, then this muscle lifts up the hyoid bone and its appendages. If the posterior portion could act alone, it would draw the hyoid bone upwards and backwards ; whilst the anterior portion alone would, as in the first stage of swallowing, lift it upwards and forwards. Stylo-hyoideus, figs. 186, 187, 190,^. Deep-seated, except quite at its insertion ; small, slender, divided into two bundles near its insertion, for the passage of the tendon of the digastric muscle; oblique downwards and forwards. Outer surface of the styloid process of the temporal bone junction of the greater cornu with the body of the hyoid bone. This little muscle is sometimes absent. It suspends, and draws the hyoid bone upwards and backwards. Near it, but equally concealed, are two other suspensory muscles, which descend from the styloid process, one to the pharynx and the other to the tongue ; behind and beneath it, is a part of the pharynx itself. The fascia of the neck. This is a very strong membrane, which passes from the border of one trapezius to that of the other, embracing all the soft parts of the neck, and splitting and uniting again, to form, amongst others, a very firm sheath for the sterno-mastoid muscle, which, like the sartorius, has an oblique direction, and requires such a restraint, to keep it in its place during action. The cervical fascia also furnishes a sort of sling for the tendon of the omo-hyoid muscle. Platysma myoides, fig. 193, ^. This, the largest cutaneous muscle in the human body, is the sole representative of the great investing cutaneous muscle of the trunk, the panniculus carnosus of the Mammalia generally, which, in the hedgehog, serves to roll up that animal into a ball, erects the quills upon the excited porcupine, raises the crest of the dog or cat, and the mane of the lion, and enables the horse to shake the skin upon its flanks, so as to rattle its harness or dislodge a fly. Superficial; a thin, broad ("TrXari;?, broad), irregularly quadrangular sheet of pale muscular bundles, lying in the superficial fascia upon the proper fascia of the neck; oblique upwards, forwards and inwards, from the upper part of the shoulder and chest, across the side of the neck, on to the front of the neck and the lower part of the face. Fascia covering portions of the pectoral, deltoid and trapezius muscles, and subcutaneous periosteum of the acromion process and the collar bone the inner or anterior fasciculi meet and interlace with those of the muscle of the opposite side, a short distance below the chin; the middle and larger