20 THE BONES. trapezium, to which it is attached, and serves to support the thumb. On the palmar aspect of the distal end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, are placed two small roundish bones, developed in the double tendon of a muscle, and named sesamoid bones {arjaa^ov, the sesame seed ; eZSoy, form). The proper bones of the digits, or the fingers and thumb, form the series of long bones, named tbe phalanges {^dXay^, a rank of soldiers); they are fourteen in number, Pl4, viz., three for each finger, and two only for the thumb. They are named, in each case, first or proximal, second or middle, and third, distal, or terminal; this last phalanx is also called the ungual phalanx (unguis, a nail), because it supports the nail. Tbe joints between the pha- langes and the metacarpal bones, and between the phalanges themselves, are freely moveable. The carpus, metacarpus, and the phalanges constitute the hand ; the metacarpus corresponds with the broad part of the hand, and the phalanges with the digits. The thumb is a specialised digit, and, consequently, has received special names in different languages [avrix^ip, or opponent of the lingers ; pollex, perhaps from pollere, to be strong: pollice, pulgar, pouce; daumen, thumb, tumere, to swell). The upper limb is, as compared with the lower, more slight in its whole construction; it is intended for purposes of prehension and manipulation of all kinds (vianipulus, a handful). In the ^ower pair of appendages or limbs, the first long bone is named the femur, or thigh-bone, {femur, thigh-bone), Fe. It is the longest, heaviest, and strongest of the so-called long bones, and is articulated, very moveably above, with the corresponding innominate or hip-bone, and below, at the knee- joint, with the larger only of the two long bones of the leg. This larger bone is named the tihia {tibia, a pipe or flute ; so named from its supposed re- semblance to such an instrument), Ti. It occupies the front and inner side of the leg ; whilst the other and smaller bone in this part of the lower limb, which is placed somewhat posteriorly and along the outer aspect of the leg, is named tbe fibula {fibula, a clasp ; because this bone forms a sort of tie or brace to the tibia), Fi. The tibia is a massive bone, which alone enters, with the lower end of tbe femur, into the formation of the knee-joint; the fibula, a comparatively slender bone, does not reach so high as the knee, but is con- nected, by a very slightly moveable joint, with the side of the upper end of the tibia. The knee-joint itself, is completed in front by a peculiar, short, flattened bone, which does not belong to the proper osseous system or endo- skeleton, but to the muscular and tendinous system, or sclero-skeleton, and is named the patella or knee-pan {patella, a little plate), pt. Below, at the ankle, where motion is free, it is the tibia also, which enters mainly into the formation of the joint, (the fibula contributing only to the completion of its outer side), whilst the tibia forms its upper surface and inner side. The two bones of the leg are fastened together below, as well as above, so securely, that there is no rolling movement of one upon the other, like that of the radius on the ulna in the forearm, but only a limited gliding movement. In the