73 THE HIP-BONE. back of the ischium, as far as its spine, forming the greater sacro-sciatic or sciatic notch, fig. 26. The external surface or dorsum of the ilium, figs. 25, 26, or rather of its ala or wing, is directed outwards, downwards, and backwards; it is convex in its anterior part, but very concave in its hinder part, fig. 27,- a form which corresponds with, and explains, the undulating or sigmoid course of the crest just mentioned, and is more readily seen when looking directly down upon it. This surface is further marked by two curved lines, having their convexity turned upwards and backwards; the lower, shorter, inferior curved line extends from the notch between the two anterior spinous processes, in a direction downwards and backwards, to the fore part of the greater sciatic notch behind; the superior curved line, much longer and more distinct, ex- tends from near the anterior superior spine, backwards and downwards, to the upper part of the greater sciatic notch. A very short, nearly vertical, slightly marked ridge passes down some distance behind this, from near the hinder end of the crest towards the root of the inferior posterior spine ; this has been sometimes described as the superior curved line, the proper superior curved line being then designated the middle curved line. These lines, severally, have reference to the origins of the gluteal muscles. The part of the outer surface of the ilium situated between the acetabulum and the inferior curved line, is free from muscle, but in a groove-like depression above the margin of that socket, is fixed one of the tendons of origin of the rectus muscle, which runs forwards along the groove, to join with the other tendon of origin proceeding from the anterior inferior spine ; to the upper half of the notch above this, and to the anterior superior spine, is attached the sartorius muscle; from the outer border of this latter process, and also from a small adjacent portion of the crest, arises the tensor vaginae femoris muscle. To this process, likewise, the outer end of Poupart's ligament is fixed in front, and the fascia lata of the thigh below. From the broad surface of the bone, between the inferior and superior curved lines, convex from before backwards, though concave from above downwards, arises the gluteus minimus, the muscle extending as far back as the great sciatic notch; the still larger concave surface, situated between the superior curved line, a part of the outer margin of the crest, and the nearly vertical line just mentioned, affords origin to the gluteus medius ; lastly, the gluteus maximus partly arises from the rough triangular portion of the outer surface of the ilium, situated behind the vertical line, and from the adjacent part of the thick, posterior border of the bone. The multifidus spinte muscle is connected with a small part of the inner side of the posterior superior iliac spine. A small portion of the pyriformis muscle arises from the upper part of the greater sciatic notch. The thickened edge or crest of the ilium, presents an outer lip, an inner lip, and an intermediate space. To the anterior two-thirds of the inner lip, is attached a part of the transversalis abdominis ; behind this, a part of the