164 THE BONES. two by a firm jagged suture, completing the malar and zygomatic arch, which here unites the cranium and the face. The anterior or maxillary process, fig. 63, is the most slender ; it consists of a narrow, pointed spike, which passes inwards and forwards, beneatli the orbit, of which it helps to form the lower margin, and rests below on the superior maxillary bone, to which it is very strongly joined by a rough surface and a slightly indented edge. The malar bone presents three free borders ; a posterior border curved like an italicy*, which forms part of the boundary of the temporal fossa, and has the temporal muscle and fascia connected with it; a very evenly curved anterior border, which constitutes about one-third of the orbital margin ; and, lastly, an inferior border, which forms part of the lower edge of the zygomatic arch, and furnishes attachment to the anterior portion of the masseter muscle. The deeper parts of the malar bone appear in the outer wall of the orbit, and in the fossa beneath the zygoma, where they join the superior maxillary, sphenoidal, and frontal bones. The Superior Maxillary Bones.—These two large bones, right and left, figs. 61, 62, 63, J, are united in the middle line to form, as their name implies, the upper jaiu. They are placed almost vertically beneath the frontal bone, except in the Black races. As compared with animals, this position of the maxillary bones is characteristic of man ; and so, likewise, is their relatively small size. They support the malar bones on each side, form part of the floor, lower border and inner side of the orbits, have the nasal bones attached to them in front, bound the anterior nasal openings on the sides and below, and support the upper teeth. Behind and within the dental arch, their deeper parts form the fore part of the hard palate. The broad central part of each superior maxillary bone, or body, is com- posed of comparatively thin, bony walls, enclosing the antrum, {^antrum, a cave), the largest air-cavity in either the cranium or the face, which com- municates, like the other sinuses, with the nasal cavities. The anterior surface of the bone, fig. 63, pierced by a foramen for a nerve, is considerably depressed between the prominence of the cheek and the nose, the falling in of the bony surface being concealed by the soft parts in health, but shown in the hollow or sunken cheek of the emaciated face. The deepest part of this depression, the canhie fossa, is bounded in front by the cani/ne eminence, an oblique ridge corresponding with the socket of the canine tooth. At the inner side of this ridge, is the smaller myrtiform, or incisive fossa, situated above the incisor teeth. From the body of the superior maxillary bone, four processes extend in different directions, named, the malar, alveolar, palatine and nasal processes. The malar process, fig. 63, thick and triangular, juts upwards and outwards beneath the malar bone, to which it is joined by a broad rough surface and