COAL GAS 1G9 smell. See Toxicology {Gaseous Poisons, Carbon Monoxide). Coal-Miner's Dermatitis. See Dermatitis in Coal-Miners. Coai-iVliner's Lungr. See Amhra- cosis ; LuxGS, Pneumonokoniosis. Coaline. — An alkaloid obtained from decomposing meat. See Intestines, Diseases OF {Enteriiis, Exciting Causes). Coaptation. — The careful and exact approximation of two separated parts (the ends of the bones at a fracture) to each other. Coarctation.—The constriction or diminution in size or calibre of a part, e.g. a blood-vessel or the intestinal canal. Coat.—A layer of tissue, a membrane, or covei'ing {e.g. muscular and mucous coats). See also Buffy Coat. Cobalt.—A metallic element (Co), occur- ring in nature as the arsenide (CoAs.2), or as the arsenide and sulphide (CoAsS, or cobalt-glance); solutions of co])alt chloride form a sympathetic ink; the salts of cobalt are poisonous and kill by arresting the heart's action; primary cancer of the lung is remarkably common in the cobalt miners of Schneeberg. Cobras. See Snake-Bites {Elapido', Naja). Coca.—Coca or Cuca consists of the dried leaves {Cocee Folia) of Erythroxylon Coca; it contains the alkaloids cocaine (methylbenzoyl- ecgonine), cocamine (isatrophyl-cocaine), and cinnamyl-cocaine ; it has an official preparation, the Extractum Coca; Liquidum, given in doses of -h to 1 fl. dr. ; and its action is due to the cocaine contained in it. See Cocaine. Cocaina. See also Coca ; Cocaine.— Cocaina is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform, and olive oil. Pre- paration—Ungucntum Cocaina), strength 4 per cent. Cocaintv Jlydrochloridum is a crystalline powder, freely soluble in water, alcohol, and glycerine. Dose—i-^ gr. Preivxrations—1. Injectio Cocaiuse Hypodermica, strength 10 per cent. Dose — 2-5 m. subcutancously. 2. Lamelke Cocaina), each containing -g^y gr. 3. Trochiscus Krameria) et Cocainse, each con- taining -n^y gr. The liquid extract of coca has been administered as a sedative and bitter in irritable stomach. Cocaine is used largely as a local anesthetic, although within recent years it has been superseded for many purposes by other drugs having a similar local action and less general depressant effect. For anfcsthesia by lumbar injection it has almost entirely been given up in favour of other substances, such as stovaine and novocain. The lozenges of krameria and cocaine are useful in sore throats. A 10 per cent solution is painted on the throat, if necessary, before making a laryngoscopic examination; and weaker solutions in the form of a spray are employed in painful laryngeal phthisis to enable the patient to swallow food. In operations on the nose, throat, or any mucous surface a solution painted on gives complete local anajsthesia. For operations on skin sur- faces it must be injected with a syringe, and for this purpose a 2 per cent solution with the addition of a little adrenalin chloride is recom- mended. A di'op or two of a 5 per cent solu- tion placed on the conjunctiva causes dilation of the pupil and is helpful in ophthalmoscopic examinations. Solutions varying in strength from 2 to 10 per cent are employed for local ana3sthesia in eye operations. Cocaine has been given by the mouth in inflammation of the cesophagus, in cancer of the stomach, in gastralgia, and in sea-sickness. The ointment is valuable in painful fissures, ulcers, etc., and in pruritis. Suppositoi'ies and bougies con- taining cocaine are occasionally employed. Cocaine. Physiological Action . . . .170 Methods of Application . . .170 Uses 170 Dangers . . . . . .171 EUOAINE . . . . . .171 See Alkaloids (Yegetahle); Anaesthetics [Local Ancesthesia); Analgesics and Anodynes ; Appetite (Loss of); Coca ; Cocaina ; Glaucoma {Treatment); Hypnotism {in Cocaine Habit); Insanity, Etiology of {Exotoxic); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties, Cocainism); Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits {Cocaine Habit); Nose, Local An- aesthetics ; Pharmacology ; Prescribing Spine, Surgical Affections {Sjnnal Cocainisa- tion); Toxicology {Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons, Cocaine). Cocaine is an alkaloid which was discovered by Niemann as long ago as 1860 in the leaves of Erythroxylon Coca, a shrub cultivated chiefly in Bolivia and Peru. It was introduced into clinical use by Roller in 1884. In the British Pharmacopoeia the official preparations are the dried leaves—Coca ; extractum cocse liquidum; cocaina; cocainie hydrochloras ; lamella) cocaina), each of which contains of a grain of the hydrochlorate of cocaine; injectio cocaina) hypodermica ; ungucntum cocainfe ; and trochisci krameria) et cocaina;. The Alkaloid.—Cocaine is but slightly soluble in water. It dissolves readily in alcohol, in melted vaseline, in castor and other fixed oils, and in many volatile oils. If heated in water it decomposes, and the solution contains ecgonine, benzoyl-ecgonine, and benzoate of cocaine.