184 COLON, DISEASES OF recently I have seen one not yet recorded—in which intestinal ulceration was associated with disease of the syjinal cord. The following is an instance: A man had complete paraplegia as a result of a fracture of the spine in the himbar region. There were numerous small round ulcers occupying the whole of the colon. Many more cases will have to be observed before the question of trophic intestinal ulceration can be settled, but as a lesion of the spinal cord can lead to an ulcer of the lower extremities, it is not unliitely that it might lead to an ulceration of the intestine. Dilatation of the Colon.—Cases in which the large intestine is dilated may be divided into four groups. The first contains those in which the dis- tension is entirely gaseous, is not due to any obstruction, and is only one symptom of some other illness. It is often seen in association with peritonitis and typhoid fever, and may occur in almost any severe illness. When ex- treme it is of great importance, for it adds con- siderably to the danger of the original disease, and greatly hampers the movement of the heart and lungs. The abdomen is very distended and tense, it hardly moves on respiration, it is hyper- resonant on percussion, and the tympanitic note extends well into the flanks, the liver is pushed up and the splenic dulness is obliterated, the patients are nearly always constipated and do not pass much flatus per rectum, but they com- plain of borborygmi which may be audible to bystanders. The gas consists chiefly of carbonic acid and hydrogen. The only difficulty of dia- gnosis likely to occur is in the distinction of this condition from those rare cases in which there is gas in the peritoneal cavity. The treatment of tympanites is very difficult and uncertain. Various carminatives, especially the aromatic oils, are often recommended, but although I have often given them I have never seen them to be of any use in serious gaseous distension of the large intestine. Enemas give a better chance of success; those of asafoetida and turpentine are the most useful, but we naturally shrink from the use of large enemata in typhoid fever or peritonitis. Puncture of the bowel has been recommended. It shoidd be done with a sterilised trocar and cannula, but it often fails to give relief, for the gas soon collects again. Acupuncture should never be employed, for it often leads to an escape of gas into the peritoneal cavity. The seco7id group contains those cases in which dilatation of the colon is due to some solid sub- stance within it. Concretions consisting of vege- table fibres, hair, and other foreign bodies are sometimes found in the insane. A gall-stone may rarely block the colon, but in the immense majority of cases in which it causes intestinal obstruction it stops in the lower part of the ileum. Distension of the large intestine by faecal matter is of great importance, and fsecal impaction is a common cause of intestinal ob- struction, under which heading it will be found described. The third groiqy contains those cases in which the dilatation of the colon is due to some organic obstruction in front of the dilated duct. The muscular coat of the dilated gut usually under- goes hypertrophy. The intestinal contents re- tained behind the obstruction set up some colitis, which may proceed to ulceration, and so the well- known distension ulcers are produced. These may be very numerous. For example, one case is described thus. " The whole of the colon above the stricture was distended and worm- eaten by small ulcers." Sometimes this leads to perforation and consequent peritonitis. It is curious that occasionally the ulcers may be a long way behind the obstruction. This colitis may be difficult to treat after the obstruction has been overcome. The dilatation behind an obstruction may be very great and lead to much abdominal distension. By careful watching of the peristaltic movements, by percussion, and by palpation we can often make out whether it is large or small intestine that is dilated, but it must not be forgotten that a distended large intestine may be bent down towards the pubes like small intestine, or a distended small intestine may be as large as a normal large intestine. The fourth group contains those very rare cases of so-called idiopathic dilatation of the colon. A few cases which have been recorded as examples of this condition are really instances of fffical impaction leading to great dilatation of the colon behind the impacted mass. Putting aside these cases, a well-defined group exists among those of idiopathic dilatation of the colon, and the characteristic of this group is that the dilatation is of the sigmoid flexure. It may be enormous, filling nearly the whole abdomen, dis- placing the liver upwards, and resembling either an enormously dilated stomach, or so bent on itself as to form two huge sacs lying vertically side by side in the abdomen. It may measure two feet in circumference. When the dilatation is not of the sigmoid flexure it is usually near it. It has been suggested that the dilatation in all these cases is due to kinking, set up by the presence of impacted fteces, but this suggestion is probably not correct, for many of these patients do not give a history of constipation ; faecal im- paction is very common, but the condition under discussion is excessively rare, and, lastly, often at the autopsy the distended bowel was not full of faeces. Probably idioj)athic dilatation of the colon is allied to those cases of dilated stomach in which there is no obstruction at the pylorus, and this is especially likely to be true of those cases in which the dilatation is confined to the sigmoid flexure. The symptoms of idiopathic dilatation of the colon can be very briefly described ; the condition