CHOREA 132 ing, and the general nutrition may thereby be gravely affected. The motor unrest is greatly increased by emotional states. The excitement of a medical examination often renders the movements much more violent. Scolding the patient by teachers or parents only makes the child more restless. Sometimes the patient sleeps badly. As a rule, during sleep the choreic movements entirely cease ; but in very rare cases exactly the reverse condition is found {chorea nocturna), in which the movements are greatest during sleep, dis- appearing almost completely when the patient is awake. A considerable degree of muscular weakness is common in chorea, and in some cases this may be so severe that the patient is unable to raise a limb from the bed, although slight rest- less movements are seen going on irregularly in the weakened limbs. But the patient can always execute voluntary movements, however feebly, at all joints in the apparently paralysed limbs. There is never complete paralysis of any group of muscles. Such cases, where the weakness is out of all proportion to the choreic movements, have been termed " paralytic chorea," and in many of them the choreic movements are only elicited on attempted voluntary movement. In some cases muscular paresis is the earliest symptom of the disease. The patient's relations notice that the child uses one arm less than the other, and finally that he does not use it at all. As the disease recovers the paresis fades, and the choreic movements become more evident. The muscles remain normal in volume. Their electrical excitability is sometimes in- creased on the affected side, both to the con- tinuous current and to induction shocks. Sensory abnormalities are more frequent in chorea than it is generally supposed. It is true that choreic patients do not usually com- plain of pain, numbness, or any abnormal feeling, but if the cutaneous sensibility be care- fully tested in every case, it will be found that a considerable proportion of patients exhibit a slight degree of blunting of sensation on one side of the body. This was so in ten cases out of forty-one in the above series. Such hemi- ansesthesia, when present, is always on that side of the body on which the choreic movements are most marked. Sometimes the visual fields are concentrically contracted, and the acuity of vision, smell, taste, and hearing may be diminished on the preponderatingly choreic side, with or without slight hemi-aneesthesia to touch or pain. Such affection of the special senses is strongly suggestive of a hysterical element superadded to the chorea, but the frequency of hemi-ansesthesia is very striking. The hemi-anfEsthesia of chorea is very slight in degree, and can only be detected by careful comparison of corresponding points on opposite sides of the body. When this is tried a con- siderable proportion of patients will be found to perceive light touches and pricks more acutely on one side than on the other, and the boundary of this area of blunted sensibility will always be found to lie in the middle line of the body. Sometimes the trunk and limbs are alone involved in the hemi-an£esthesia, the face and scalp escaping. As to the reflexes, the skin-reflexes are occa- sionally diminished on the hemi-ansesthetic side. The deep reflexes may be normal, but sometimes they are difficult to elicit. In other cases we may find the " choreic knee-jerk." This differs from the healthy knee-jerk in the fact that when the patellar tendon is tapped, instead of the normal brisk contraction of the quadriceps extensor, followed at once by a sudden relaxa- tion, the knee in such choreic cases is suddenly extended to its full extent and remains so for a second or two, the foot and toes mean- while exhibiting irregular choreic movements. Ordinarily the sphincters are normal, except in very bad cases when extreme mental dulness causes incontinence of urine and fseces. In chorea the optic discs are normal. In rare instances slight optic neuritis has been observed. This is probably not referable to the chorea itself, but due to some other concomitant cause. The pupils are often dilated, but they react normally. The temperature is normal, except in very severe cases, when it may rise. In the majority of cases a psychical element is present. This may be trivial in degree, merely amounting to a certain irritability of temper or a tendency to cry or to giggle on slight provoca- tion. Sometimes, however, there is impairment of memory and distinct mental dulness. The mental element may be quite out of proportion to the severity of the other symptoms. Mental affection is more common in adolescents than in young children. It usually takes the form of depression. Hallucinations may develop with delirium, and the patient may pass into a state of violent maniacal excitement. This maniacal form [chorea insaniens) reaches its maximum intensity at the acme of the chorea. It may last several weeks, and generally passes ulti- mately into a condition of mental apathy in which the patient lies in bed like a log, refuses food, and passes both urine and fseces into the bed. As the patient slowly recovers, there is often a transient stage of mild delirium with " persistent ideas." Severe mental symptoms are more common in the chorea of pregnancy than in any other variety of chorea. The ultimate prognosis, however, as a rule is good; most cases of choreic insanity recover completely. The urine in chorea contains an excessive amount of urea, of phosphates, and sometimes also of hajmatoporphyrin. Complications.—Of these the most important is endocarditis, which occurs so frequently that