EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUEL^] 499 pathognomonic wign of involvement of tlio mastoid cells. In cases whei'e enlargement of the existing perforation, antiseptic douching, and tlie local abstraction of l)lood fail to relieve pain, and where the temperature keeps rising or refuses to fall, opening and drainage of the mastoid cells should be inidertaken. Preparation of the Patient.—All hair in the immediate neighbourhood of the ear should be shaved, after which the skin should be washed with soap and water and rubbed with ether (so as to get rid of all fatty particles), and then carefully carbolised. The head should then be wrapped in a carbolic towel, which should be worn for some hours previous to opei-ation. Method of Operation {Scluvartze's Operation).— When the patient is fully under the influence of an ana3sthetic an incision should be made (Wilde's incision) parallel to and a quarter of an inch behind the attachment of the auricle from the linca temporalis to the mastoid apex, and down to the bone throughout its entire length. All bleeding points should be ligated at once, after which, with a raspatory, the periosteum is raised from the l)one as far forwards as the posterior border of the bony meatus. The tissues are now held forwards by means of a broad retractor, and the surface of the mastoid process is thus clearly exposed to view. The object is to open up the cavity of the mastoid antrum and the adjoining mastoid cells ; in other words, after having tapped the antrum, to follow up any path of jjathogenic infection which may be discovered. To map out the topographical relations of the mastoid antrum one of two methods may conveniently be employed :— (1) An imaginary line is drawn parallel to and a quarter of an incli Ijehind the posterior border of the bony meatus, and another parallel to its superior border. At the point of inter- section of these lines opening of the bone may be commenced, the general direction of the axis of the proposed opening being downwards and forwards parallel to the posterior wall of the external auditory meatus. (2) The Supra-Meatal Triangle.—Macewen advises opening the antrum in the supra-meatal triangle, which is the space formed by the pos- terior root of the zygomatic process above, the postero-superior margin of the bony meatus in front, and a perpendicular line drawn through the posterior edge of the meatus and joining the lines previously mentioned. The depth of the antrum from the surface varies greatly, not only in ditterent skulls, but also at different ages and at ditterent stages of the disease. It may be taken, however, as a good practical rule that no exploratory opening should be made to a depth of more than three- quarters of an inch for fear of wounding the external semicircular canal or the facial nerve. Nowadays either the gouge or the bur driven by a dental engine or an electro-motor is used to lay bare the antrum and adjoining cells. Macewen, the great advocate of the bur, says that by its use safety is ensured, jarring of the intracranial contents is avoided, and a perfectly smooth sui'face is secured in which the orifices of any fistulous tracts are readily detectable. With the gouge worked either by the hand or by means of a mallet, layer after layer of bone is removed, a good view of the operation field being thus always obtainable. Whichever instrument is used good illumina- tion of the field is absolutely requisite, and may be obtained by reflected light from a limelight appai'atus or an electric lamp. It is important to remember that the middle fossa may be found vmduly low, that the knee of the lateral sinus may come nearer to the posterior wall of the external auditory meatus than is usual, and that its position may be very superficial, in order to emphasise the necessity of cai-e in all manipulations. During the removal of the various layei'S of bone frequent recourse should be made to ex- amination with a pointed probe to ascertain the extent and the size of the various cells which may be opened. When once the antrum has been tapped its extent and depth may readily be gauged by means of the antrum hook. All overhanging bone must now be gouged or biu-red away, all infected cells opened up, and a cone- shaped cavity formed, with its base stiperficial. In cases of acute antral empyema it is neither necessary nor advisable to open up the cavity of the middle ear. The cone-shaped cavity produced as above described should be carefully dried (all syringing being avoided), dusted with some antiseptic powder, and packed loosely with an antiseptic gauze. Healing l>y means of granulation tissue ah imo should be encouraged, and in uncomplicated cases takes place within a few weeks. Chronic SurruKATivE Exdomastoiditis.— Suppurative disease arising within the nuddle ear is prone to extend to the mucosa lining the antrum mastoideum and the adjacent mas- toid cells. Owing to the complicated arrange- ment of these cells the free egress of pus is frequently interfered with and chronicity is favoured. Pathogenic organisms also find a suitable habitat within these recesses, and con- sequently thrive luxuriantly. The mucosa of the part, serving as it does the function of a periosteal lining, tends to undergo ulcerative changes. The imderlying bone thus becomes denuded and loses its vitality. Caries, necrosis, or cario-nccrosis consequently frequently result. In this way large portions of the temporal bone may exfoliate. The most frequent sites for such carlo-necrotic processes are the outer wall of the mastoid, the posterior wall of the external osseous meatus, the bony groove for the sigmoid