DERMATITIS HERPETIFORM IS 307 running a rapid course, and usually with char- acteristic localisation, often also involving the buccal unicons membrane. Erythema pre- dominates over vesication, and the lesions never exhibit herpetiform grouping. The Hydroa vaccinoforme of Bazin (Hutchin- son's summer prurigo) occurs in young persons, and only in si)ring and summer ; its lesions are confined to the face and other parts exposed to sunlight, and tend to diminish with advancing age ; they leave indelible pitted scars. Impetigo herpetiformis presents many strik- ing points of distinction. The pustules of which the eruption is composed are minute, miliary ; they foi'm little groups which sjiread centri- fugally ; itching is generally absent; the general condition is grave from the start, and death generally ensues in a few days or weeks. Vesicating urticaria may also give rise to some doubt as to diagnosis ; but it almost always occurs in cliildren, and the concomitant pheno- mena readily distinguish it from dermatitis herpetiformis. Hallopeau's chronic pustular dermatitis in •excentrically progressive groups is a very rare disease, all the recorded cases having been ■observed in St. Louis Hospital, Paris. It appears to be a local pus inoculation of intense ■severity leading to deep involvement of the skin, which becomes much thickened and fun- gates. A case recorded by Wickham seems to show that this condition may supervene as an 'epiphenomen in cases of Duhring's disease. The points of difterentiation from herpes or •any form of "eczema" have been sufficiently dwelt upon in the preceding portions of this article. PROGXOsrs.—Although the general health may in many cases of dermatitis herpetiformis be but little affected, the favourable prognosis attached to the disease, and considered by Duhring as one of its salient features, is far from being entirely justified ; the records of fatal cases are now by no means rare. The disease, as a rule, ceases spontaneously rather than as the result of treatment, after lasting for many months or years; or a fatal result may ensue from ex- haustion or septicicmia. Generally speaking, the erythematous forms and those connected with pregnancy are the most benign, while in the bullous and pustular forms the prognosis is more grave. Treatment. — General, rather than local, treatment must be relied upon in the case of dermatitis herpetiformis. The patient's mode of life must be carefully regulated and all worry and anxiety avoided ; hence probably the advantages derived from a stay in some quiet country spot or at a spa, either British or Con- tinental. The best of these are probably Harro- gate or Strathpeft'er, Gastein, Kissingen, or Schintznach. The diet must lie ample and nutritious, but non - stimulating. Alcohol is certainly deleterious in most cases and tends to increase itching ; the moderate use of tobacco, on the other hand, appears often to be distinctly usefid. Alilk is extremely valuable as a food, and if well supported should be taken in con- siderable quantities during the clay. Constipa- tion must be carefully guarded against; it is best combated Ijy aperient, bitter, or sulphurous waters taken first thing in the morning, and preferably warmed. The value of arsenic has been variously estimated ; Hutchinson reckons it as high, but this is not the opinion of the writer nor of the majority of dermatologists. When the eruption is in its early stages it is certainly aggravated, like many other skin affections, by arsenic, but when on the wane it may perhaps be Ijenefited by the drug cautiously administered. Arguing by analogy it also seems probable that when administered between the attacks arsenic may tend to diminish the tendency to relapses. In similar circumstances small doses of iodide of potassium seem some- times useful. In some cases quinine in full doses is certainly beneficial. Crocker recom- mends the use of full doses of belladonna, beginning with fifteen minims of the tincture, and increasing it to thirty minims three times a day. Any evidences of a gouty tendency must be treated by dieting, alkalies, and diuretics ; it is in such cases that baths are of special service. To control itching no drugs are more vahiable than plienacetin and antipyrin in full doses. There is no valid olijection to the use of chloral and bromides to oljtain sleep, but morphia is decidedly contra-indicated as tending to increase irritation. A prolonged warm bath at bedtime containing sulphate of potassium (Eij.-giv.), borax (giij.), bicarbonate of soda (5V.), bran, linseed, or size (2 to 3 lbs), in 30 gallons of water, with or without a little liquor. Carbonis detergens often alleviates itching and procures a good night's sleep. ('onstant rest in bed is in itself beneficial, probably by securing compara- tive uniformity of temperature. Locally Duhring warmly recommends sulphur ointment, and his ojjinion is endorsed V)y iStephen Mackenzie ; it must be vigorously rubbed into the skin, the vesicles and blebs being ruptured. Iclithyol has been warmly advocated in some quarters ; internally in five-grain doses, cither as capsule or pill, increased up to twenty grains or more three times daily, it is really of service. Its disagi'eeable odour renders it seldom tolerated in this country as an external application. It may be painted on in aqueous solution from 5 to 25 per cent, or applied as a dusting powder or ointment. The following formukc are con- venient :— K Iclithyol, gr. xx. Resorcin, gr. x. Pulveris amyli- Alagnesii car])onatis, aa 3SS. Misce. Fiat pulvis.