BREATH cavities and gangrene of the lung may l>e kept down by creasote taken in capsiilcH. Dr. G. Vivian Poore has recommended garlic for this purpose, in the belief that this vcgetal)le con- tains an antiseptic principle to which it owes its reputation as an article of diet. In two cases of the kind wherein a trial was made of Dr. Poore's suggestion, the stench was diminished, and was curiously enough not replaced l>y any offensive smell of garlic. Putrefactive changes in a dilated stomach can be most efficiently treated with lavage by means of a soft stomach tube and a tepid solu- tion of salicylate of soda (1-1000). The value of hot intestinal irrigation in urtemia, and similar diseases has yet to be determined, but is at least worthy of a fair trial. Brea.thing'. «sVf (Ihildhen, Ci.imcai. Examination of (Breathing) ; Hy.stehia ; Physiolooy {Respirnfion) : Restmration. Breath I ess n ess. -Vee l )vsi>N(J-;a ; Heart, Myocardiu.m and Endocardium {Si/nipttii/Ki- tolof///, Dyitpnmi) ; Resi'IRA'I'iox : etc. Breech Presentation, Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (I'udalii- L/es) ; Labour, Management of. Breg'ma.—The antericn- foiitanelle of the head in infants and the place corresponding to it in adults. See Labour, Physiology of {Passengers, Foetal Head). Bremer's Blood Test.—Failure of the ivd cells (in dialictir blood) to take the red stain as the normal corpuscles do. See Diabetes Meij.itus (Coma, Diagnosis of). Brenzkatechinuria.—Brenzkatecliin (or alkaptou) in the urine. See .VlkaI'Tonuria. Brepho-.—Brepho-, as a preti.x, signifies pert.-uniug to an infant or fffitus," and is used in such words as Bbephotrophium, a foundling- hospital : Brefiiocacocolpia, vulvar gangrene in infants; Brepiiopolysarcia,obesitv in infants; etc. Breweries. AVr .\i,coiiol (Beer): To\i- I r(i|,(i(.v „ir). Bricklayer's Cramp. -Spasm of the | I'ight h.'ind from liuldiiii: tiie trowel. See Spasm (/A//-//). I Brickworker's Anaemia. -wPara > sites (Uncinaria). ' Brides-les-Bains. See B ALNEOLOGY (Fraitr,-). Bridgre of Allan. See I'.ai,.\eoix)(;y \ (Great Britain) : Mixerai. Waters (Jfuriated i Sali7ie). I Bridgre Work. See Teeth (Brid</e and j Betr ]Fod-). Brig'hton. See Therapeutics, Heauth RES(jin's (E)iglisli). Brigfht'S Disease. See Nephritis. t See also An.emia ; Hrai.n ; Bronchitis, Acute (Causes) ; Colon, Diseases of (Colitis); Con- junctiva, Diseases of; Coucjh ; Ear, Otitis Media (Causes); Eclampsia; Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium (Etioiogy, Muscle Failure); Hydropathy; Intestines, Diseases OF (Enteritis) ; Leucocytosis ; LuN(;s, Vascular DisoRDEiis ((Edema) ; Menstruation and its Disorders (Amenorrh<ea) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of ; I'ericardium, Diseases of (Pericarditis); Peritoneum (Acute Peritonitis) ; Pleura, Diseases of (Acute Pleurisy, Hydro- thorax) ; Pulse ; Retina and Optic Nerve ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of ; Tinnitus AURIUM. Brim of Pelvis. See ({eneration, Female Okg.ws oi- (Ossenns I'elelx). Briquet's Syndrome.—A group of symptoms, including shortness of breath, sup- pression (tf the voice, and paraWsis of the dia- phragm, occurring in hysteria. Brittleness of the Nails. See XaII.S, Al'FECl Ill.NS dl'. Broad Lig^ament, Diseases of the. Displaceme.vts of . . . . . ;3 Inflammation ..... 4 Mesosalpin.\ Mesometriu.m Tu.MOURS .......") Mesosalpin.x Meso:\iei'riu.m See also E<.'T0PIC Gestation ; Fallopian Tubes ; Ovaries, Diseases of ; Pelvis, Dis- eases OF TdE Cellular Tissue ; Puerperium, Phy'siology ; I'terus, Displacements, etc. The serous fold known as the broad ligament is divided into the mesosalpinx or mesentery of the Fallopian tube and the mesometrium proper, which lies below the level of the attachment of the ovary. In disease the mesosalpinx is mainly associated with tumours, the mesometrium with inflammatory deposits. Displacement of the Folds of the Broad Liga- ment by Tumours.— Parovarian cysts, cystic tumours developed in the liilum of the ovary, and, in rare instances, tumours of the ovary proper, make for themselves a capsule of the mesosalpinx, which they greatly distend. This condition is easily recognised during operation l\y the position of the Fallopian tube, which is much elongated and stretched over the top of the capsule. These same tumours sometimes