DIET 364 body. Like the mineral matters, it is thus an important tissue-builder and essential to life, death resulting in a few days if it be cut off. About 2J pints of water should be consumed daily in addition to that already contained in ordinary solid food. Obviously, however, this quantity will vary greatly with such conditions as temperature and work. It is almost im- possible, by the free drinking of water, to increase the amount of it in the blood, nor can one, by limiting the supply of water, render the blood appreciably poorer in it. On the other hand, it seems probable that the habitual ingestion of an excess of fluid may ultimately produce a more watery condition of the tissues, and if these be already water-logged a diminu- tion of fluids in the diet may cause the passage of water from them back into the blood. This may explain the favourable results sometimes obtained by limiting the supply of fluids in cardiac dropsy. Water is not absorbed in the stomach, but leaves it — if half a pint be taken — in the course of about half an hour. Even large quantities of water do not appreciably delay the digestion of food in the stomach, while in the intestine it probably aids somewhat the process of absorption. The rapid passage of water through the stomach makes it a peculiarly dangerous vehicle of disease. If the source of the water be at all suspicious, therefore, it is best to boil it, and re-aerate it in a gazogene, for no filter is really reliable for domestic use. Water does not increase tissue waste, but merely washes out the waste products. For this reason its free use in gout, renal disease, and diabetes should be encouraged, and care should be taken to see that the patient gets enough of it in fevers, and if the pylorus is obstructed a due provision of water should be ensured by the use of saline enemata. Other- wise there is danger of the supervention of toxic symptoms from the retention of waste products. Aerated ivaters are more favourable to digestion than ordinary water, for the carbonic acid gas which they contain acts as a stimulant to the stomach. This gas is rapidly absorbed through the stomach wall, hence it is well to avoid aerated waters in marked cyanosis. They should also be forbidden to patients in whom sudden distension of the stomach may be dangerous, e.g. cases of gastric ulcer or cardiac embarrassment. Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa.—Tea contains the alkaloid theine, along with some volatile oil, tannic acid, gummy matters, etc. Indian and Ceylon teas are richer in all the former in- gredients than China teas, and green tea is richer than black. An ordinaiy teacupful of tea infused for five minutes will contain at least one graiii of tannic acid and one or two grains of theine. The longer the tea is infused —up to about half an hour—the more tannic acid will it contain. If one wishes to minimise the amount of tannic acid, one should use China tea and infuse it for four minutes only. The addition of milk also aids by precipitating the tannic acid. Coffee contains caffeine (which is identical with theine), tannic acid, and an oily substance called caff'eol, besides other less important in- gredients. A teacupful of black coffee has about the same amount of caffeine and tannic acid as a similar quantity of tea. " Fi'ench " coffee consists usually to a large extent of roasted chicory, the chief ingredient of which is caramel. Cocoa contains the alkaloid theobromine, but in small amount; it is closely allied to caffeine. In addition it has (in its ordinary dietetic form) about 26 per cent of fat, 12 per cent of proteid, and 25 per cent or so of carbohydrates, besides a considerable quantity of ash (about 4 per cent). All of these beverages have a retarding influence upon digestion, the effect of tea being greatest. Coffee is apt to irritate the stomach by its cafffeol ; it should therefore be forbidden in cases of gastric catarrh. Cocoa has least in- fluence on the digestion of other foods, but the large amount of fat which it contains is apt to make it disagree. The only member of the group which has any claims to be regarded as a food is cocoa. See- ing, however, that only about 10 grammes of cocoa are used to make a breakfast cupful of the beverage it cannot seriously aid in general nutrition. Indeed, seventy-five such cups would be required to svipply the amount of potential energy required daily. Tea and coffee are chiefly useful in virtue of the caffeine and volatile oil which they contain. These act as stimulants to the nervous system, and to some extent to the heart also, removing the sense of fatigue and increasing reflex action. The fact that they are usually taken hot no doubt contributes largely to their stimulating effects. The effects of tea and coffee on general naetabolisni is in the direction of increasing rather than of retarding body-waste. These beverages are useful in nervous ex- haustion and in alcoholic coma, they might also be used more largely than they are in fever. On the other hand, they should be avoided or used with great moderation by "nervous" people, and by those suffering from sleeplessness or palpitation. Their effects on digestion some- times render it necessary to forbid their use in dyspepsia, although it is probable that the digestive disturbance attributed to the use of these beverages has been greatly exaggerated. [Should the recent work by Chittenden {Physiological Economy of Nutrition, New York, 1904) be substantiated by other observers, our present conceptions of dietary standards will