CHEYNE-STOKES' EESPIRATION 98 tomatology, Dyspnoea); Lungs, Vascular Dis- orders (^PulmonaryEmholism, Clinical Features); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Fitrulent Menin- gitis, Sym2)toms) ; Meningitis, Tuberculous (Symptoms); Uraemia {Syni2)toms, Hespiratory System). Chian Turpentine.— An oleo-resin obtained from Pistacia Terebinthus, once used (with hoi^efulness) as a possible remedy for cancer of the uterus. Chia.ncia.no. See Balneology [Italy, Calcareous Waters). Clliari'S Saiping^itiS. See Fallopian Tubes {Tumours). Chiasm a.—A decussation or crossing, especially that of the optic nerves. See Physiologt, Senses (Vision); Retina and Optic Nerve {Affections of Optic Nerve, Symp- toms, etc.). Chicle-Pea. See Toxicology {Food- Stuffs, Vegetable, Lathyrism). Chicken. See Invalid Feeding {Meats). Chicken-Breast. See Rickets (C/m^- cal Features, Chest). Chicken-Pox. See Varicella. See also Infection {Rules for Prevention); Nephritis {Etiology): Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Infective). Chig^g'Oe.—The chigger or Pulex penetrans, a sand-flea common in tropical Africa and China. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Caused by animal parasites). Chilblains. See Erythema {Erythema pernio). See also Alcohol {External uses); Gan- grene {Frost-bite); Gout {Irregular, Circulatory System); Lupus Erythematosus {Diagnosis). Child. See Children. Childbed. See Puerpbrium. Childbirth. See Labour. Child-Crowing^. See Larynx, Laryn- gismus Stridulus. Childhood. <S'eeChildren; Adolescent Insanity ; etc. Children. See Children, Development and Clinical Examination ; Anaesthesia, Chloroform {Points in Sp)ecial Cases, Children); Anesthesia, Ether ; Ascites {Causation, in Children); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Calculus Vesicae, Lithotomy); Diabetes Mbl- litus {Etiology); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders OF Infancy ; Mesenteric Glands ; New-born Infant ; Pneumonia, Clinical {Childhood); Pulse {Frequency); Rheumatism in Children ; School Children, Medical Examination ; Syphilis {in Children); Tetany ; Tuberculosis. Children, The Development and Clinical Examination of. Introductory Remarks .... 98 Growth in Weight and Length . . 98 Dentition and its Relation to Disease 99 Development of Various Glandular Organs ...... 100 Development of the Special Senses . 100 Development of the Voluntary Motor Functions . . . . . .100 Development of Speech . . .101 Order and Method of Clinical Examina- tion 101 The Head 102 The Neck, Back, and Limbs. . .102 The Alimentary System—• Mouth and Throat . . .102 The Abdomen. .... 103 The FyECES 103 The Circulatory System . . .104 The Respiratory System . . .104 The Urinary System . . . .106 The Integumentary System . . .106 The Temperature . . . . .106 The Nervous System . . . .107 The child differs from the adult not only in his small size, his softness, and his inability to do things, but also, very importantly, in the fact that, if he is healthy, he is constantly growing in bulk, in endurance, and in all sorts of capacity. In examining sick children, therefore, we have not only to face the ordinary problems of clinical medicine, but we are also continually being met with the question. Is the patient normal for his age as regards growth and development ? If we cannot satisfy ourselves on this point, we are likely to miss much that is of importance in the case. In dealing with the investigation of children, therefore, we shall begin with a short account of such facts of growth and develop- ment as have important clinical bearings, and then proceed to consider the examination of the various organs and systems. Growth in Weight. — At birth the baby weighs, on an average, about 7 lbs. (5 to 12). During the first two days there is a loss of from 8 to 10 oz., resulting partly from the passage of urine and meconium, and partly from the fact that the child does not receive enough nourish- ment at first to make up for the tissue waste. On the third day a gradual increase begins, the birth-weight being reached again about the tenth day of life, and after this the rise con- tinues more or less steadily. The gain may vary considerably on different days, but the average daily increase is about |-1 oz. during the first five months, and from oz. during the rest of the first year.