NOSTRAS 127 CHOLERA food. In the majority of cases the vomiting soon ceases, but sometimes the stomach may continue irritable throughout. There may be as many as from twenty to thirty motions dur- ing the first twenty-four hours, the later dis- charges becoming colourless, almost odourless, and in fact similar to those of true cholera. The child suffers from thirst, frequently most intense; from abdominal pain, as the drawing of the legs up against the abdomen and crying show ; from local pain round the anus, irritated by the acrid stools; he becomes prostrated, wizened in look; the body temperature falls below normal, the pulse but flickers : and if the diarrhoea persists, muscular cramps, followed soon by general convulsions, set in; death closing the scene. In severe cases a previously strong, well-nourished child will lose within but a few hours all his healthy curves and plumpness, to show in his appearance all the signs of extreme marasmus. At any stage of the attack, however, the symptoms may halt and shortly recede ; in even seemingly hopeless cases recovery may result {see " Gastro-Intestinal Disorders "). Adultly.—Few premonitory symptoms assert themselves. Severe purging, with or without precedent emesis or gastric nausea, but always accompanied with paroxysmal abdominal pains, frequently of a most agonising character; tiie passage first of liquid fa3ces, dark sometimes in colour, light-hued as a rule, irritating and pain- ing the anal surface, of more or less foul odour, becoming more and more liquid, with less and less smell and colour, more frequent and copious, in time indistinguishable from the rice - water stools of true cholera, lead to the sharpened features, the cold, clanuny goose-skin, the intense thirst, the lessened urine, the cramps and prostration significant of excessive abstrac- tion of fluid and serum from the organism. The prostration, the cold skin, and the actual lowering of body-temperature which may occur are undoubtedly as often caused by reflex action through the nervous centres from an irritation of the local terminations of intestinal nerves as through actual loss of fluid, while as the result- ant effect is to withdraw blood from the skin to supply the inflamed intestinal tissues, the dis- charge of fluid into the lumen of the gut is facilitated. Should the attack proceed to a fatal ending, the skin becomes cold and livid, the face more pinched, the muscular spasms more general, although towards the end they are replaced by a comatose, quiet state ; or again, the mind may almost to the last retain its full consciousness. During an attack the urine is always scanty; in fatal cases it may be completely suppressed for some time before death. If the attack arise from ingestion of preformed ptomaines, violently poisonous and irritative in character, the time which elapses between their ingestion and the onset of the symptoms varies directly with the character of the meal taken which included them, its amount, and the strength of the gastric juice encountered. If the stomach be empty, or nearly so, and the poisonous agent taken in a liquid, the symptoms occur rapidly ; if in solid form, a longer time elapses ; while if taken along with all the com- ponents of a full meal, the onset of diarrha'a may be delayed until eighteen or twenty-four hours have passed. If the cause be due to organised forms, the appearance of symptoms is usually longer de- layed, varying directly with the virulence of the bacterial type and the facilities afforded it for its growth. One form of acute diarrha'a, in many instances reaching choleraic intensity, is of interest, al- though of doul:)tful etiology. It is every now and then met with in large institutions, especi- ally in the writer's experience in boarding schools. From no discoverable cause a munber, perhaps even the majority, of the inmates will be attacked almost simultaneously with acute diarrlia3a. Seldom serious, much the larger proportion of those attacked recover speedily; a minority, however, may suffer severely. From what can such an attack arise 1 Not from food, for all eat the same, and all do not suffer. Pathology.—The pathological conditions are akin to those of acute gastro-enteritis. The mucous lining of the gastro-intestinal wall is acutely inflamed over a more or less extensive area. If the irritant cause is very powerful, the inflammatory changes may spread to the other coats of the bowel wall. Investigation of the watery stools shows them to be almost entirely composed of pure serum, drained by the intestinal glands from the blood. From them various forms of bacteria can be grown, and ptomaines may be isolated by appro- priate methods. The bacillus coli communis is constantly, well-nigh invariably, to be found. Diagnosis.—The most important point in the diagnosis of choleraic diarrhcca lies in its difterentiation from Asiatic cholera. This point settled, it is of little moment to be able to distinguish choleraic diarrhoea due to one special form of poison from that caused by another; the symptoms are practically identical, the treatment the same. A history of previous contact with infection, early onset of collapse, of loss of voice and enfeebled pulse, and the detection of the comma bacillus in the stools suffice to indicate the presence of true cholera. Occasionally purely nervous diarrbajic attacks closely simulate choleraic diarrhcea; but here a history of former illnesses of the same type, of some nerve disturbance, the comparatively slight discomfort or pain experienced, the character of the dejecta, less offensive and maybe watery from the commencement, and the slower