54 CARATES characterised by the occurrence of coloured patches on the face (the name signifies " look at the face "). See Pinta. Caraway Fruit. See Carui Fructus. Carbalite.—A mixture containing char- coal, used as a filter for water. Carbamide.—Urea (NH,.CO.NH,), the diamide of carbonic acid, the first organic com- pound prepared by synthesis from inorganic sources. Carbamic acid is carbamide with hydroxyl in place of amidogen (NH,,.CO.OH), and it forms carbamates {e.g. anmionium carb- amate, and ethyl carbamate or urethane). Carbazotic Acid. — Picric acid or trinitrophenol. Carbide.—A compound formed by the union of carbon with another element, usually a metal, e.g. calcium carbide (CaC^). CarbO. See also Bisulphide of Carbon ; Skin, Pigmentary Affections [Hair).—Carbo Ligni, wood charcoal, is the only official form of carbon. It is a black, odourless, and tasteless powder. Dose—60 to 120 grs. Externally, charcoal has a considerable repu- tation as an application for foul ulcers and sores. It should be used in the dry state, and frequently renewed, as the discharge soon moistens it and destroys its oxidising powers. It is sometimes employed as a tooth powder. Internally, it has been given as a powder, as lozenges, and as biscuits to check gastric fermentation. It appears to have a special attraction for alkal- oids, and has been recommended in large doses as an antidote in opium poisoning. Carbohydrates. See Diabetes Mel- LiTUS {Physiological Considerations) ; Diet {Nutritive Constituents of Food); Digestion and Metabolism {Carbohydrates) ; Enzymes (Hydro- Using) ; Obesity {Dietetic Treatment); Physio- logy, Food and Digestion {Food, Heat Pro- duction, General Metabolism, and Dietetics). Carbohydraturia.—The presence of carbohydrates (sugars) in the urine. Carbolic Acid. See also Aseptic Treatment, Antiseptic Surgery ; Drug Erup- tions {Tar); Gangrene {Varieties, Carbolic Acid); Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Tetanus {Baccelli's Method of Treatment); Toxicology {Corrosives, Acids).—Carbolic Acid, or Phenol, is made from coal-tar by distillation and puri- fication. It consists of colourless acicular crystals which are very hydroscopic, and be- come liquid on the addition of 6 per cent of water. It melts into an oily liquid at 91-5° F. It is soluble 1 in 14 of water, and freely in alcohol and oils. Dose—1-3 grs. —Preparations—1. Acidum Carbolicum Lique- factum. Contains 10 per cent of water. Dose— 1-3 m. 2. Unguentum Acidi Carbolici. 3. Glycerinum Acidi Carbolici; 1 gr. of phenol in 5 m. 4. Suppositoria Acidi Carbolici; 1 gr. in each. 5. Trochiscus Acidi Carbolici; 1 gr. in each. Crude carbolic acid is used very largely as a disinfectant and deodorant for drains, bed- pans, and so on. The purified form in various dilutions is the most generally reliable antiseptic we possess, and is employed almost universally for svirgical purposes. A 1 in 20 solution is used for purifying the surgeon's hands, the skin of the patient, etc. Instruments and dressings may be kept in a 1 in 20 or weaker solution till required. Dressings for wounds are soaked in a solution of 1 in 40 or 1 in 60 ; but care must be taken that too large a dressing is not applied, on account of the risk of absorption which takes place very readily through the skin. Fingers and toes should never be treated by carbolic fomenta- tions, as numerous cases of gangrene following its use have been reported. Pure carbolic acid is a very efficient antiseptic for application to foul sores, iilcerated surfaces, abscess cavities, tuberculous sinuses, etc. A vaginal douche of 1 in 40 or 1 in 60 carbolic is very serviceable in the treatment of puerperal saprsemic condi- tions. Itchiness of the skin in scarlet fever is relieved by sponging with a 2 per cent lotion of carbolic. The ointment or a lotion is recom- mended for various skin diseases when a com- bined antiseptic and anajsthetic action are required. Glycerinum Acidi Carbolici is very efficient in destroying the fungus of tinea ton- surans. A small piece of cotton-wool soaked in pure carbolic, placed in a carious tooth, relieves toothache. The glycerinum is a useful application for aphthous or ulcerative stomat- itis. It must be used carefully, as it is very powerful. It is also beneficial in septic condi- tions of the throat or tonsils, for which purposes it may be applied directly undiluted, or em- ployed as a gargle or spray in the strength of 20 m. of the glycerinum to the ounce of water. Internally, carbolic acid has been advocated for dyspepsia with flatulence, diarrha3a, typhoid fever, and cholera ; but its value in these dis- eases is very doubtful, on account of the dilution effected by the gastric and intestinal contents. Large doses of a 2 per cent solution adminis- tered hypodermically have given good results in some cases of tetanus. Its use in phthisis, internally, by inhalation, and as an intra- tracheal injection, has been abandoned. It is strongly advocated, however, as an inhalation in whooping-cough. Sodii Sulphocarbolas has been recommended to control gastric fermentation in doses of from 5 to 15 grs., but it has probably no beneficial action. Zinci Sulphocarbolas may be used externally as an antiseptic for the same purposes as carbolic acid, but it has no special advantages.