344 DIAPHRAGM, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE which such collections contain air the condition is sometimes referred to as a " sulj-phrenic pyo- pneumo-thorax," a nomenclature which involves a contradiction in terms. Maydl's table indi- cates the different primary causes of sub-phrenic abscess, their relative frequency, and the pro- portion of cases in which there is air in the abscess cavity. Out of 179 cases collected by him, sub- phrenic abscess originated— Contained Cases. Air. In stomach and duodenum 35 20 „ ca3cum and appendix 25 8 ,, liver or biliary passages . 20 1 „ internal injuries IS 3 „ hydatid disease 17 3 „ the intestines . 13 4 As a metastasis 11 1 In inflammation round kidney 11 1 „ miscellaneous conditions . 11 5 „ disease inside chest . 9 1 „ external injuries G 0 „ caries of ribs 3 0 These collections may be situated anywhere between the liver and the diaphragm, but are commonest in the left hypochondrium. Many of these primary conditions may per- forate the diaphragm without first forming a sub-phrenic abscess. Thus Pick found that out of 28 cases of gastric idcer leading to perfora- tion of the diaphragm, 20 did so directly, while only 8 formed a sub-phrenic abscess. Ulcers of the fundus of the stomach, especially if asso- ciated with adhesions, tend to end thus more than others. Ulcers on the posterior part of the stomach by contracting adhesions obliterate the lesser sac of the peritoneum, so that when perforation takes place a sub-phrenic abscess results. In appendicitis the pus may reach the dia- phragm on the inner side of, or behind, the peri- toneum. The sub-phrenic abscess may develop very rapidly in acute suppurative cases, with perforation or gangrene of the appendix, espe- cially when no adhesions have formed around the cfecum; but as a rule it does not occur for some weeks. Unless such an abscess is evacu- ated, early perforation of the diaphragm is almost sure to follow. Thus out of 25 cases 11 were not operated upon, and all perforated. Of the 14 which were incised 9 were saved. Clinical Features. — The comparative fre- quence with which air occurs along with the pus renders sub-phrenic abscess very liable to be mistaken for pneumo-thorax or pyo-pneumo- thorax; while many of the cases in which there is no air closely simulate empysema. The onset may be acute, especially when due to perforation of a gastric ulcer, or there may be little or no evidence of the formation of a very large abscess. In addition to the general signs of pus forma- tion, rapid or slow as the case may be, there is iisually an excessive fulness and resistance in the region of the epigastrium or left hypochon- driimi, which often tends to point by the side of the ensiform cartilage. The liver dulness may be lost on account of the ,gas in the abscess cavity, and the liver is often markedly displaced downwards by the pus. The diaphragm, too, may be pushed up as far as the tliird or even the second rib. The heart also is often displaced. Clinical evidence of the existence of one or other of the conditions which give rise to sub- phrenic abscess, such as gastric vilcer, hepatic abscess, hydatid disease, empyfema, etc., is of great diagnostic value. As distinguishing this condition from true pyo-pneumo-thorax, it is found that the hypei'- resonant note is lower in the thorax, and ex- tends into the upper abdominal regions, the pus lying still lower. Amphoric breathing and the bell-sound may be present. When a sub-phrenic abscess has perforated into the pleural cavity, the suddenness of the onset of thoracic symptoms, with a previously healthy condition of the chest, and the history of gastric, intestinal, liver, or other abdominal disease, render the diagnosis fairly clear. The prognosis is on the whole unfavourable. If left alone it usually proves fatal by setting up empyfema, abscess of the lung, or peritonitis. Even when it opens into the alimentary canal a fatal issue is common. Treatment.—The only rational and efficient treatment is free incision and di'ainage. The causes, size, and site of these abscesses are so varied that no uniform method of oper- ating is applicable to all. The physical signs, supplemented, if possible, by an exploratory puncture, will guide us to the correct situation for incision, which in all cases should be free, and should permit of thoroughly efficient drainage being established. The adhesions which form round the abscess iisually shut off" the general peritoneal cavity from infection. When the pus is on the convex surface of the liver, or on the upper aspect of the kidney or spleen, access may be got through tlic pleura, after resection of portions of two or more ribs, with the overlying muscle. The diaphragm is divided, after the pleural sac has been shut oft", by a circular series of stitches. It has been urged against this method that the pressure of the large tube necessary for drainage may cause necrosis of the adjacent ribs. Although the results, even after incision, are not uniformly successful, it has usually been found that failure has been due either to co- existent complications, sucli as peritonitis, pneu- monia, or metastatic purulent collections ; or to incomplete operation, such as neglect to drain a concurrent empyicma, an outlying loculus of the abscess, or to inefficient drainage.