SUPPURATION AND SEQUELS 502 EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC to the concha, where a crucial incision is made. In this way two quadrilateral flaps are formed, which are pressed against the bony walls of the antro-tymjianic cavity, the one upwards and the other downwards, and kept in situ by packing- introduced per meatum. From the edges of these skin flaps epidermisation commences, and spreads until the whole cavity becomes papered with a dry cuticular lining. The original skin incision may be sewn up, or Gruber's plan of secondary suture may be adopted, by which is meant the insertion of three or four sutures at the time of operation, and their subsequent tightening some few days afterwards. Every four or five days fresh packing should be intro- duced, great care being taken to fill the cavity completely. Any tendency to the formation of granulation tissue should be combated by the application of chromic acid or nitrate of silver. As a rule from three to foiu- months will elapse before complete epidermisation takes place. Post-Influenzal Suppurative Mastoiditis.— Suppurative middle ear disease of influenzal origin is characterised by the intensity of the inflammatory process, by a tendency to spread to the tissiies within the mastoid, and by rapid destruction of bone. Mastoid empyemata fol- lowing attacks of la grippe are most frequently located within the apical cells, the antral cavity and the adjoining cells enjoying some peculiar immunity. In such cases pain is apical, and is much aggravated by pressure upon the inner and anterior aspect of the process. In the treatment of such subcortical abscesses it is necessary to open the apical cells freely, to scrape away all softened bone and succulent granulation tissue, and to connect the antral cavity with this abscess cavity by means of a gutter-shaped trough. Healing by the forma- tion of healthy granulation tissue rapidly follows. Bezold's Mastoiditis.—In certain cases of suppurative endomastoiditis perforation takes place through the inner surface of the mastoid process, close to its tip and into the groove of the digastric muscle. Pus consequently may collect under the deep cervical fascia, giving rise to infiltration of the cellular tissues of the neck, with formation of a hard brawny swelling; or it may pass, guided by processes of the deep cervical fascia, downwards towards the mediastinum. Treatment.—Free ablation of the apical mas- toid cells is called for in the first place. A counter opening should also be made in the neck and thorough drainage established. Such cases often run a peculiarly protracted course, owing to the practical difficulties encountered in providing efficient surgical drainage. Cholesteatoma. — This condition occurs in cases of old-standing suppurative middle ear disease, and is generally held to result from an ingrowth into the tympanic cavity through a perforated membrane of epithelial cells from the dermic layer of the external auditory meatus. Virchow, however, regards these epithelial masses as true neoplasms. Such ingrowing epithelium, mixed with crystals of cholesterine and inspissated pus, collects in concentrically arranged masses within the tympanum or mas- toid antrum, leading frequently to dilatation of these cavities and at times to perforation of the surrounding bony parietes. Cholesteatomatous masses swarm with organisms, and when stirred up into activity by some intercurrent inflam- matory process may give rise to most urgent symptoms, e.g. pain, rise of temperature, etc. As a rule surgical treatment has to be resorted to; although occasionally, if the masses are small and situated fairly superficially, they may be washed out by means of an intratympanic syringe or dislodged by scoops or curettes. The instillation of rectified spirits may be used with the idea of dehydrating the mass, and so of starving the accompanying micro-organisms. Watery solutions shovdd be avoided. Their marked tendency to recur, and the inherent danger which their presence gives rise to, calls as a rule for surgical treatment. Stacke's radical mastoid operation may be performed with advan- tage. Rheinhardt has suggested, after clearing out all diseased mastoid cells and epithelial masses, the maintenance of a permanent mastoid fistula, so that in the event of any recurrence taking place efficient local treatment may at once be undertaken. Transplantation of flaps of skin into the cholesteatomatous cavity after it has been freely laid open has also been suggested. Tuberculous Disease Tuberculous disease of the middle ear is held by many authorities to nui a chronic course ah initio. Its presence is characterised by a somewhat sudden onset, without, however, any sthenic symptoms, by a painless perforation of the membrana tympani, and by an early involve- ment of the peri-auricular lymph glands, and by the frequent presence of early paralysis of the facial nerve. Examination of the membrane, which presents a pale, sodden, and oedematous appearance, re- veals the presence of one or more perforations with thick, succulent, and avascular edges. The accompanying discharge is usually thin, semi- purulent, and frequently very foetid. P)uds of flabby granulation tissue protrude through the perforation, and are very frequently associated with deep-seated caries either of the pars pro- montoria or of some portion of the mastoid process. In all probability the disease may be primary within the middle ear, infection being conveyed per tuham. In cases of advanced phthisis, the middle ear occasionally becomes involved, painless perfora- tion resulting. Such a complication has a bad prognostic indication.