CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF 103 the saliva. In older children we often meet with the so-called " mapped " or " <z:eographical tongue." This condition has nothing to do with syphilis, and has, indeed, little practical importance. The Teeth.—In examining the teeth we have to note the stage of progress of dentition and also any abnormalities of form svich as those characteristic of congenital syphilis. Flattening of the tips of the more prominent teeth in both jaws indicates that the patient grinds his teeth. The Gums.—Various forms of stomatitis (q.v.) exert their most characteristic effects on the gums. Sponginess of the gums should always suggest the probability of scurvy being present, although sometimes it occurs as a merely local condition. The Palate.—In examining the hard palate in very young infants we often see little yellowish nodules in the mucous membrane near the mesial line. These are called " epithelial pearls," being composed of degenerated epi- thelial cells. They have no clinical significance, and rapidly disappear. The Throat.—In feverish cases of any kind the examination of the throat must never be omitted. In carrying this out it is of great importance to ensure, to begin with, that the child is in such a position that, when his mouth is opened, the light will at once fall on the back of the throat. It is also necessary to take pre- cautions against possible struggling on the part of the patient. The handle of an ordinary spoon forms the best tongue-depressor, being less likely to alarm the child than any special spatula. Digital examination of the pharynx, fauces, and naso-pharynx is very important, especially in young infants, in whom it is often difficult to get a satisfactory view of these parts. It is especially called for when there is a possibility of retropharyngeal abscess. The Abdomen.—Inspection.—In young chil- dren the abdomen is normally more prominent than in the adult. This is due partly to the relatively large size of the liver and the narrow- ness of the thorax, and partly to the fact that the bowels are more readily distended by flatu- lence owing to the weakness of their walls and those of the abdomen. Any dilatation of the superficial veins and any redness about the umbilical region must be noticed. Retraction or hollowing out of the abdomen is a very significant sign of cerebral disease. Palpation.—Tenderness on palpation of the abdomen, if at all well marked, usually indicates the presence of peritonitis or some other form of inflammation. Enlargement of the abdominal organs and tumours are generally easily felt, provided the children do not resist, and a combined rectal and abdominal examination is especially useful. In all cases of difficulty it is advisable to give chloroform. Percussion.—Percussion is useful in determin- ing the state of the stomach and bowels, and in confirming the results of palpation. It is also of great value in ascertaining the presence of free fluid in the peritoneum. The Liver.—The lower margin of the liver can usually be made out by palpation as well as percussion. It reaches a little below the costal margin in the right mamillary line. Diminution in size of the liver is very rare. Enlargement is common, and may be due to fatty accumula- tion, waxy disease, cirrhosis, passive congestion, and various other causes. The iip)leen.—The spleen is best investigated in children by palpation. To examine it you stand on the child's right side, and, placing the right hand on the left side of the alxlomen with the first two fingers over the left hypochondrium, press gently inwards and upwards. In some cases where the spleen is normal in size, and always when it is enlarged, its rounded edge will be felt as a soft and readily movable body. If the lower edge is distinctly below the level of the ribs the organ may be regarded as abnor- mally large. Sometimes it extends right down into the pelvis. Enlargement of the spleen is common, and may be due to syphilis, leucaemia, pseudo-leucEemia, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, hepatic cirrhosis, and other causes. The Mesenteric Glands.—Tuberculosis of the mesenteric glands is an extremely common con- dition from a pathologist's point of view. Clin- ically, however, it is only occasionally that we are able to make sure of its presence during life, as in many of those cases in which the glands are most enlarged there are other changes in the abdominal cavity which render them difficult of palpation. Examination op the FtECbs.—The meconium which the infant passes during the first three or four days is of a dark greenish-brown colour, of a viscid semi-solid consistence, slightly acid in reaction, and without odour. It is sterile at birth, but within a few hours micro-organisms find their way into it through the anus. After four or five days the motions cease to contain meconium, and assume the charactei's of normal infantile fteces. Normal Faeces.—In a healthy breast-fed bab}' the motions are from two to four in number daily during the first month or two, and usually two, but sometimes oi\\y one, daily after that. They are of an orange-yellow colour, and of a uniform semi-solid consistence. Their reaction is acid, and they have a slightly sour but not offensive odour. The stools of a hand-fed infant are similar, so long as his food resembles breast- milk in composition and is well digested. The motions of a healthy child may vary in number, consistence, colour, reaction, and odour according to the character of the food given him. The number of tlie motions is increased and the consistence lessened by increase of