138 CHOREA known that can be said to be the actual cause of choreic insanity, Prognosis.—The prognosis is usually good in the mania and agitated melancholia of chorea. With acute delirium the condition is much more serious and the prognosis must be always guarded, but when the patient once begins to improve there is seldom a relapse. Delusional insanity or stuporose cases are commonly chronic. Treatment.—This is largely upon general lines. Good feeding with large quantities of milk and eggs, custards, and solid food, if possible. The more acute the attack the greater must be the amount of food given. If nourishment is refused, artificial feeding must be resorted to. Stimu- lants are usually required in severe cases. The bowels must be kept open, and salines are re- commended for this pui-pose. For violence the patient must be placed upon a mattress on the floor and surrounded by other mattresses. For persistent insomnia hypnotics must be used. Sulphonal, 30 grains for a child over 13 years; for adults this can be repeated morning and evening if necessary. In agitated cases morphia bimeconate is often useful. Chloral is also recommended. Choreoma,nia.. — The dancing mania, epidemic in character ; chorea Gernianorum. Chorioma..—Chorion-epithelioma or syn- cytioma malignum. See Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua [Epithelioma of the Chorion); Puer- PERiUM, Pathology {Sarcoma-DecidiM-Cellulare or Deciduoma Malignum). Chorion. — The outer foetal membrane. See FcETUs and Ovum, Development {Foetal Membranes, Placenta) ; Labour, Retention of Placenta {Fragments of Membrane); Physio- logy, Reproduction {Development); Preg- nancy, Diagnosis {Hydatid Degeneration of the Chorion); Pregnancy, Affections op the Ovum and Decibv a {Vesicular or Hydatid Mole); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Causes of Death during Pregnancy); Preg- nancy, Hemorrhage {Ayitepartum, Myxoma Chorii). Chorion-Epithelioma. See Preg- nancy, Ovum and Decidua {Epithelioma of the Chwion); Puerperium, Pathology {Sarcoma- Deciduo-Cellulare or Deciduoma Malignum). Choroid, Diseases of. Structure . . . . . .138 Normal Appearance . . . .139 Congenital Affections . . . .139 Choroiditis . . . . . . 140 Exudative . . . . .140 Varieties . . . . .141 Suppurative . . . . .142 Irido-Choroiditis . . . . .143 Tuberculous Affections . . .144 Gumma ... ... 144 Sarcoma, etc. . . . . .144 Choroidal Degeneration . . .145 Injuries of . . . . . .145 See also Accommodation {Changes in the Chor- oid) ; Cheek, Fissure of ; Eyeball, Injuries of {Pupture of the Choi-oid); Meningitis, Tuber- culous AND Posterior Basic {Ophthalmoscopic Examination); Ocular Muscles, Affections OF {Nystagmus, Causes); Palate {Facial Cleft, Coloboma of Choroid); Physiology, The Senses (Vision) ; Pigments op the Body {Choroid). The choroid is the posterior part of the tunica vasculosa, the anterior part being formed by the iris and ciliary body. In its extent it reaches from the ciliary body to the optic disc, and lies between the sclerotic externally and the retina internally. On microscopic section it presents, from without inwards, the following layers :— 1. The lamina fusca.—This consists of lamellse of loose connective tissue, containing branching pigment cells; it adheres to the sclerotic when that is separated from the choroid, and therefore it is sometimes described as belonging to that tissue. 2. T'he lamina suprachoroidea is similar in structure to the lamina fusca, being composed of lamellae of branched pigmented connective- tissue corpuscles and a network of elastic tissue. The space between this layer and the last is lined by endothelium, and is considered to be a lymph space. 3. The lamina vasculosa consists of a dense network of large intercommunicating veins so closely connected that in some parts the intervascular spaces are less in diameter than the veins themselves. This venous plexus ends abruptly at the ora serrata. These veins are the tributaries of the vense vorticosa). Within the fenestrations, which are chiefly fusiofrm in shape, are pigmented connective - tissue cor- puscles, the presence of which renders this membrane uniformly dense and reflective in most eyes; a deficiency or excess of these pig- ment-cells will cause the outline of the choroidal vessels to be seen. 4. The chorio-capillaris, or membrane of Ruysch, is a reticulated vascular membrane of closely intercommunicating capillaries of large diameter; the meshes of this network are small. Here the venae vorticosae begin in capillary whorls, the stars of Winslow. There are no pigment-cells in this layer, and few, if any, round cells. A delicate structureless membrane, the elastic layer of Sattler, is supposed to exist between this and the former layer. This Sattler believes to be the remains of the tapetum, a definite layer found in the choroid of certain animals. In carnivora the tapetum is composed of endothelial cells containing minute crystals, producing a shining appearance in the dark. In other ani-