440 DYSENTEKY are unaffected by the experiments referred to. Clinical observations associate a peculiar type of •dysentery with amcubse in the stools. Their presence in the swollen submucous tissue, in the ulcers themselves, in the spreading zone, and in the lymph spaces, proves that they are active agents in the dysenteric process. Etiology.—General Conditions.—-Geographi- cal Distribution.—Non-amoebic dysentery is a ubiquitous disease in the sense that under certain conditions, such as war or famine, it may appear in any climate. As a result of famine, very severe epidemics have at different times broken out in Ireland. Up to the seventeenth century dysentery was endemic throughout the whole of Northern and Western Europe, and it occupied by no means an unimportant place in the pathology of the British Islands. It is still to some extent endemic in Sweden, especially in the neighbourhood of the central lakes, and it has also appeared repeatedly during this century in an epidemic form not only in the lake region but also in elevated and dry districts. Both in the northern and southern hemispheres dysen- tery increases in frequency as we approach the equator, but not by any means in a uniform w^ay. It is notably a disease of tropical and sub-tropical countries, in many of which it takes the first place as a cause of death. Its inci- dence on different regions varies greatly. It is comparatively mild and rare in Singapore, in the Malayan Peninsula generally, and in British ■Guiana, all within a few degrees of the equator, while countries at comparatively high latitudes, such as the North-West Provinces of India, Arabia, the Mediterranean shores of Africa, Senegal, and the coasts of Chili so far south as the 33rd degree, suffer severely. The geographi- cal distribution of amoebic dysentery is still im- perfectly known. As a sporadic disease it •occurs in the central and northern regions of Europe, and in the northern states of the Union. It is more common in the south of Europe and the southern states of the Union. It is known to be exceedingly pi-evalent in Egypt, and is probably far from rare in the tropics generally, although there is no evidence that it is the prevailing form of dysentery in warm climates. The name of " tropical" dysentery applied to this form is misleading. Altitude.—The coast lands and inland valleys of tropical countries are, as a rule, more subject to dysentery than the higher lands of the interior. In India the ratio of admissions from dysentery at stations less than 100 feet above sea-level is 41'9 ; under 500 feet, 32-5; from 3500 to 8000 feet, 18-7; and above 8000 feet, 3*8 per 1000. But no altitude affords security from the disease unless it is sufficient to reduce the temperature to that of temperate latitudes. Moderate elevations are sometimes even more dangerous than the sea-level. Berenger-Feraud relates that in 1840 the troops in Martinique were removed to a camp situated at a height of 1200 metres in order to escape from yellow fever, but it was found that dysentery at that elevation was as fatal as the yellow fever of the plains, [and the camp had to be abandoned. The physical character of the soil, the water, and circumstances of a climatic kind—winds and atmospheric humidity—are factors which modify the influence of altitude. Season. — In temperate climates dysentery is notably a disease of siimmer and autumn. Of 446 epidemics tabulated by Hirsch, 415 broke out from June to September. From August to October is the season of dysentery in all temper- ate climates in the northern hemisphere. In tropical and semi-tropical countries the incid- ence of the disease in summer and autumn is by no means so constant as is generally repre- sented. In Bombay the maximum of admis- sions into the European Hospital falls on the coldest months. The percentage of deaths in the native army of Bengal in the three coldest months—November to January—is 39'4, in the three warmest months—May to July—16'6. It is the same in Mauritius, the dysentery season there is fi'om May to August, months of falling temperature, and diminishing rainfall and humid- ity. August, the coldest month of the year, is that charged with the maximum dysentery mor- tality. As an epidemic disease attendant on war or famine, dysentery has often raged with great severity in winter when the temperature has been extremely low, as was the case in the Crimea in 1854-55. Amoebic dysentery is said to be contracted in most instances in the warm season. Ternperature.—From what has already been said of the latitudinal, altitudinal, and seasonal relations of dysentery it may be inferred that a high temperature favours its prevalence. This view is supported by the fact that in temperate climates the years in which dysentery is most prevalent rule, exceptionally warm years. The same has also been observed to hold good in Algiers, Senegal, the West Indies, and Brazil. All experience points to siidden fluctua- tions of tempei-ature in warm climates as a powerful exciting cause of dysentery. Chilly nights succeeding warm days, exposure to cold and wet after the body has been overheated, determine dysentery in countries where the dis- ease is endemic. It may be remarked that when the temperature throughout the year is equable, the cases of dj^sentery are pretty evenly distri- buted over the whole year, but in countries where the amplitude of the annual range is great, the bulk of the cases tend to be concen- trated on a few months. In temperate climates these months are summer and autumn; in tropical countries, winter, especially if the nyct- hemeral variations during that season are also high. Soil.—The geological formation of the soil