474 EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF the meatus, when the mechanical efforts to re- lieve the feeling of itchiness seem to induce it. Furunculi are also a not uncommon complication of purulent middle ear disease, probably owing to infection derived from the purulent discharge. The constant presence of moisture in the meatus, the temporary entrance of cold water while bath- ing, or the use of irritants by way of treatment may excite the disease. Like most diseases, it is often attributed by patients to cold. No doubt certain defective states of the health may pi'e- dispose to these furunculi, such as diabetes. {See " Boils.") Symptoms.—Pain in the ear is the chief symp- tom. This is sometimes intensely acute, radiat- ing, it may be, over the side of the head, while frequently there is a painful pulsation in the ear described as a "hammering"; these painful sensations are always worse at night. Move- ments of the auricle tend to aggravate the pain; so does pressure, such as lying upon the auricle, or pressure on the tragus. The pain is also in- tensified by movements of the lower jaw, as in chewing, yawning, and even speaking. When the boil is on the posterior wall of the meatus there may be pain on pressure over the mastoid, which may sometimes be (Edematous; while, if over the anterior wall, the front of the tragus may be swollen and very tender to touch. The hearing is usually for the time defective, owing to the pai'tial or complete occlusion of the meatus by the swelling, while there is often a humming or buzzing sensation in the ear. In severe cases febrile disturbance may be pi'esent. When ex- amining the ear we should at first simply reflect light into the meatus without a speculum, as the use of tlie latter may be very painful. If there be any secretion in the canal the latter should be gently syringed and carefully dried with cotton-wool. We may tlien find two or even three furunculi in difterent stages, and the meatus entirely closed by the swelling. The skin over the furunculus is usually reddish, and when pressed with a probe is extremely sensitive. Course.—The inflammatory centre may de- velop into a distinct abscess, but more frequently, after a few days, the boil ruptures, giving exit to a small slough and a few drops of pus, witli relief to the pain. The pus or slough may require to be pressed out of the little orifice with a probe. Granulation tissue occasionally sprouts from the opening, but the disease very rarely leads to any affection of the bone. Excessive formation of epidermis or cerumen sometimes follows an attack. Diagnosis.—The nature of the affection is determined by the soft localised swelling, very sensitive to pressure with a probe, and also by the pain elicited during pressure upon or traction of the auricle. It may in a slight case look like a small pimple at the orifice of the ear. We must not confound the oedema over the mastoid with actual periostitis. Treatment.—Antiseptic and sedative plugs introduced and kept in the ear are very useful, such as an ointment composed of 1 grain of menthol, 2 grains of iodoform or boracic acid, and 1 drachm of vaseline; this is smeared thickly on long cotton-wool plugs, introduced well into the meatus and changed every few hours. Carbolic acid and vaseline, 1 in 50, may be used in the same manner. An ointment composed of 1 grain of hydrochlorate of mor- phine to 1 drachm of vaseline has a sedative effect. These plugs should not be allowed to press painfully on the walls of the meatus, but made simply to occupy the canal so as to bring the antiseptics in contact with the inflamed areas. Some prefer the use of antiseptic solu- tions, especially in the recurrent form of the disease, such as boracic acid and alcohol 1 in 20, or perchloride of mercury 1 in 2000, but the author has found the antiseptic plugs preferable. Warmth and moisture, in the form of linseed- meal poultices or hot fomentations, frequently applied over the ear, into which an antiseptic plug has been placed, are distinctly iiseful in relieving the pain. These applications should, however, be discontinued as soon as the pain is relieved, as there is no doubt that excessive poulticing tends very much to the recurrence of furunculi. As a rule it is well to avoid the entrance of liquids, such as oils, into the ear, and we should aim rather at keeping the ear perfectly dry, with the exception of the anti- septic plugs. If syringing be necessary, the ear should be afterwards most carefully mopped out with absorbent cotton-wool. After syring- ing and drying, the insufflation of a small quantity of fine boracic powder, before the introduction of the plug, is useful where the canal is not completely closed. If the furunculi affect an ear already the seat of purulent middle ear disease, it is doubly important to employ dry treatment. In such a case the ear as a rule requires to be syringed with antiseptic solutions, but great care should be taken to dry the whole of the meatus by means of absorbent cotton, on a cotton-holder. A little dry boracic powder is then blown in and the antiseptic cotton-wool plug worn. If the pain, in spite of such remedies, con- tinues so as to prevent sleep and cause much siiffering, an incision is made into the seat of the inflammation. A slender and sharp-pointed blade, such as a fine tenotomy knife, is suitable, and we should cut from below upwards, this being less painful. The contents of the boil are then pressed out with a probe, and the fore- going treatment carried oiit. If an anaesthetic be not administered, the head should be held firmly, as the inflamed tissue is very sensitive to incision, which, however, is generally soon afterwards followed by marked relief. Granu- lation tissue, if present, should be removed with forceps followed by the use of boric powder.