CATARACT 66 to make a sufficiently large opening in the capsule. When the lens is stirred up the swell- ing which takes place as it becomes macerated leads to an extrusion of some of its substance through the capsule wound into the anterior chamber. If the wound in the capsule is not large enough, as is, for instance, the case if the capsule has been merely punctured before the lens has been stirred up, the intracapsular swelling which follows may cause more or less irritation of the eye due to increased intraocular tension. Apart from this, however, absorption does not under these circumstances take place so readily, or it may stop altogether. The operation has then to be repeated. The cataract needle in performing a discission should be passed very obliquely through the corneo-scleral margin into the anterior chamber, thus forming a valvular opening. After having reached a little beyond the middle of the chamber, the capsule should be lightly cut by raising the handle of the instrument till the point of the needle comes in contact with it. The needle point is then di'awn over the surface of the capsule, and made to tear a linear aperture in it. The instrument is then slightly withdrawn till its point lies again free in the anterior chamber, then again pushed in suffi- ciently to enable another section of the capsule to be made in the same way, but in a direction crossing the first at as great an angle as possible. In other words, the capsule should be opened by a pretty free crucial incision which does not pass too deeply. After this is done the needle is pushed into the lens and stirred about. Care must be taken not to perforate the posterior capsule, which may readily be done towards the periphery where the lens is thinner. The operation of discission done with an aseptic needle causes very little reaction. Absorption, however, takes place very slowly, several months elapsing before the pupil is clear. Occasionally after three or four days glaucomatous symptoms may develop. In children this is often accompanied by sickness, and the eye becomes congested and painful. It is then necessary to relieve the tension by ex- tracting some of the macerated lens from the eye. This is done through an opening made at the corneo-scleral margin with a bent keratome. The lens matter is removed through this in- cision along a cui'ette (a small gi'ooved instru- ment made for this purpose), with which the outer lip of the wound is depressed, and which is introduced a short way into the anterior chamber. This operation of linear piecemeal extraction is very often made to follow a discission even when no symptoms of irritation have super- vened. The removal of the cataract is thus hastened. When properly performed, and with due antiseptic precautions, it is a perfectly safe proceeding. Operation by discission with or without a subsequent linear extraction is only suitable for cataract in young people. Different operators, however, recognise different limits of age, after which discission should not be done. It is, generally speaking, not advisable to operate in this way when the patient is more than twenty- five. Too much ii'ritation is otherwise apt to be caused by the harder central portions of the lens. In any case the later a discission is done the more necessary is it to follow it up with a linear extraction. As a rule it is better to perform the extraction at once, and not subject the patient to two operations. Discission followed by linear extraction is the most satisfactory operation for lamellar cataract in children. It is also the operation generally performed for traumatic cataract in young people. Extraction of the opaque lens as a whole from the eye is the method of operating which still remains to be described. There are several different methods of extraction in use. These methods mainly differ in minor details. The general principle of cataract extraction is to remove from the eye as completely as possible the whole of the intransparent lens in a manner which is conducive to rapid primary union of the external wovmd made for the purpose. The wound must not only occupy a position which does not interfere on cicatrisation with vision, but it must be so placed that the edges lie in good apposition after the cataract is removed, and are also readily nourished. The site usually chosen for the wound is therefore the corneo-scleral margin. Some operators, how- ever, carry the incision more or less decidedly into the cornea. The operation of extraction is performed with a long narrow knife, the so-called Grwfe knife. The incision into the eye is preferably made along the upper corneo-scleral margin, where it is afterwards mostly covered by the upper lid. In making the incision the knife is entered at the outer side at a point in the corneo-scleral margin on about a level with the horizontal tangent to a semi-dilated pupil. This is what is geiaerally called puncture. The knife is then carried rapidly across the anterior chamber, and a counter puncture made in the inner and upper corneo-scleral margin at a point just opposite to the puncture. The incision should lie through- out in the corneo-scleral margin, and should be made with as little sawing motion as possible. The wound should, in fact, be as clean-cut as possible, and occupy about one-third of the corneo-scleral margin. If the extraction be combined with iridectomy a portion of iris is next excised, the iris being drawn out through the incision either with iris forceps or hook, and then snipped across with a pair of sharp iris scissors. When the hook is used this can be done without causing any pain. After replac- ing the edges of the wound (coloboma) in the