65 CATARACT case, it is hardly fair to impose upon one's patients, as soon as the beginning of cataract is diagnosed, all sorts of restrictions instead of allowing them to have the full use of their eyes as long as possible. Excessive, continuous reading, especially with a bad illumination, may perhaps be undesirable. When cataract has advanced sufficiently to cause some marked interference with sight it is sometimes possible to get some temporary im- provement hy the use of a weak mydriatic or miotic or hy suitable glasses. In many cases of advancing cataract it is found that patients complain of seeing very badly when facing the light, or generally, when the illumination is strong. In reading, for instance, they prefer sometimes an illumination which is otherwise unsuitable owing to its being too feeble. The reason for this is that when the pupil is small the total area of the portions of the lens which remain clear is insufficient to give a Ijright enough retinal image. With a semi-dilated pupil, however, the number of rays going to form the image is greater. And if the more excentric pupillary portions of the lens are relatively free from intransparencies, the proportion of eft'ective rays may increase at a greater ratio than the diminution in illumination, which causes the pupil to become less contracted. A still greater advantage may under these conditions be got by causing an artificial dilatation of the pupil. The greater number of rays thus admitted to form the retinal image is not counteracted by the diminished illumination necessary to admit of a natural dilatation of the pupil. This artificial dilatation of the pupil is best secured by the use of a weak solution of sulphate of atropine {\ gv. to sj.), which may Ije applied daily, or even once every second day. In advancing cataract this should always be tried. If it proves of use it may then be safely in- definitely continued. It is comparatively seldom, on the other hand, that a miotic by causing an artificial contraction of the pupil is of use in cataract. Patients with cataract often suft'er too from a disagreeable degree of dazzling. This is caused by the scattering of many of the rays which enter the pupil. These scattered rays, mixing with the regularly refracted ones, disturb the clearness of the retinal images, and produce this disagreeable sensation. It is for this reason that cataract patients rarely face the light, or, when they do, walk with their heads bent for- wards. They frequently, too, shield the eyes by holding their hands at the side of the face, or by shading the eyes in some other way. Some- times spectacles in the form of stenopaic slits cause improvement in vision by diminishing the amount of this scattering. When the cataract in one eye is further advanced than in the other, the same scattering of raj's in the worse eye causes the vision with vol.. II both eyes to be less perfect, and associated with more discomfort than when the better eye is used alone. It is then advisable to allow them to read with an obscure screen in front of the worse eye. Another expedient which may Ije resorted to when the sight is insufficient to permit of read- ing with the proper correction at an ordinary distance is to give up any attempt at binocular reading and use the better eye alone. It is then provided with a glass of sufficient strength to focus it for a distance of 6 or 4 or even 2 inches instead of for 10 to 14 inches. The retinal images thereby obtained are correspond- ingly larger, and thus reading may be continued for a longer time than is otherwise possible. Reading with a hand magnifying-glass also serves the same purpose. The various operations performed for cataract may be classed under tliree heads—(1) Reclina- tion; (2) Discission; and (3) Extraction. Reclination or cotiching does not seem to be practised in civilised countries. It is a very old operation, and the one which was at one time universally employed. The operation con- sisted in pushing a needle, entered through the sclera, forwards between the lens and ciliary body, and then, by raising the handle, pushing the cataractous lens backwards into the vitreous. This operation, though producing necessarily, in uncomplicated cases, an immediate restora- tion of sight, was abandoned owing to the fre- quency with which it was followed by inflam- mation or glaucoma. It must be remembered, however, that reclination was performed exclu- sively in the pre-antiseptic period. Indeed, not only were no antiseptic precautions taken, but some of the descriptions given of the operation make it clear that it was customary for some operators to dip the cataract needle into, or smear it with, substances which were more likely than not to be septic. The risk of re- clination nowadays could certainly not be nearly so gi'eat as it formerly was. Nevertheless, as a surgical proceeding, it is inferior to discission or extraction. Discission consists in opening the anterior capsule with a fine, sharp cataract needle, and then passing the needle deeper into the sub- stance of the lens and stirring it up. The aqueous humour is then brought into direct contact with the substance of the lens, which is macerated, driven forward in flocculent masses into the anterior chambei', and absorbed. The absorption takes place through the channels, at the angle of the anterior chamber, by which the aqueous leaves the eye. If the discission has been free, flocculent masses of macerated lens matter readily escape out of the capside and lie in the anterior chamber. There they gradu- ally become lessened in size as absorption slowly proceeds. In performing discission care must be taken 5