1G5 CLIMATE AND ACCLIMATISATION climate for an individual, the patient's personal equation or idiosyncrasy must be taken into account. In dealing with patients suffering from nervous diseases, in whom we wish to restore the general tone of the system, we should choose bracing and moderately temperate climates, remembering that proximity to the sea may induce nervous excitement and insonniia, and may, temporarily at least, exaggerate neur- algias. Diseases of the lungs, apart from phthisis, are favourably influenced by a climate characterised by moisture and mildness. A bracing equable climate is requisite in cardiac disorders, remembering that pulmonary com- plications due to climate should be avoided. A moderate altitude is usually beneficial, but the patient must not be sent too rapidly to a high altitude, and very sudden changes of tempera- ture must be avoided. In diseases of the ab- dominal organs, such as intestinal catarrh, chronic liver disease, dyspepsia, dysentery, dia- betes, etc., change of climate may be most bene- ficial ; climates such as the Riviera, the Nile, St. Moritz, and Morocco being advisable. This will be further considered under " Therapeutics, Health Resorts." Acclimatisation'.—The question of acclima- tisation naturally falls under the subject of climate. In recent years two schools of thought have been formed — one regarding acclimatisa- tion as impossible, a view supported by Virchow, Hirsch, Fritsch, Ravenstein, and others, who hold that Europeans can never become acclima- tised in the full sense of the word in tropical regions, l)elieving that the deterioration caused by climatological factors and endemic diseases will invariably kill off the emigrants, or at any rate render their ultimate existence impossible ; the other school, represented by De Quatrefages, Livingstone, the late Bishop Hannington, and more i-ecently by Dr. L. Sambon, believing that rapid acclimatisation in tropical regions is pos- sible for Europeans. The writer of this article holds that rapid acclimatisation in tropical regions is impossible, and that acclimatisation for Europeans can only be possible if migration occur step by step. In estimating the pos- sibilities of acclimatisation we must count by generations rather than by years, although, given carefully selected individuals and care- fully selected tropical areas in which to colonise, he sees no reason why, with precautions, Euro- peans should not colonise even in the tropics. In making the selection, all persons with a tendency to gout or rheumatism, diabetes or albuminuria, those with a nervous or alcoholic family history, or those suffering either from acquired or heredi- tary syphilis should certainly be rejected. Acclimatisation is a process, usually slow, by which plants and animals become adapted to, and so retain health in, countries having a difter- ent climate from those in which they are indi- genous ; it is in part effected by changes taking place in the individual or in the race, in part by hereditary modification of constitution. If we look at the distribution of different races throughout the world, we find that great changes have taken place in their location ; the Esqui- maux once lived in Asia, only some 40° north of the equator; now they inhabit the polar regions ; the Bohemians or Gipsies are found nearly everywhere, while Jews and Maltese apparently thrive in every conceivable region. But, examining the matter more closely, we find that the Esquimaux did not arrive at their present hunting-grounds in a generation, much less in a few weeks, as emigrants and soldiers are compelled to do now, nor do we find that the Gipsies or Jews overspread the world rapidly. Far from it; they put out feelers, as it were, and only very gradually, year after year, genera- tion after generation, did they advance from their native soil into the great luiknown. Look- ing for a moment at other races, we observe that the British become acclimatised at the Cape, in Southern Australia, in New Zealand, and in some parts of North America, but not in India. The French thrive in Nova Scotia and in Maur- itius, but not so well in the north of Algeria, although in the southern provinces they do better. The Dutch fare exceedingly well at the Cape, but not in the Malay Peninsula, where they have experienced fearful mortality. Mada- gascar may be instanced as a place having a climate which has proved most unfavourable to all Europeans. In dealing with the subject of acclimatisation with reference to Europeans, an error is made in imagining that all Europeans can be acclima- tised or will resist acclimatisation in any given area equally ; not so, a marked difference obtains between northern and southern Europeans in this respect. Not only the climatology of their original residence must be taken into account, but also their habits and customs and their psychical peculiarities, and if these factors have to be considered with regard to the adaptability of a nation for emigration, so too with regard to the individuals of any nation. Selected in- dividuals from nearly every European nation may thrive almost all over the world. Some have denied that environment influences the human species, and it has been said that nations seek out that environment which is best suited for them; but environment certainly does defi- nitely influence not only individuals but nations. Herbert Spencer has shown in his Principles of Biology that every organ and every function of living beings imdergoes a certain and definite modification, within certain limits, under the stimulus of new conditions"; and he thinks that this modification is almost always such as to produce an adaptation to a new environment. The influence which climate and environment exert upon emigrants is well shown in Australia, New Zealand, and America, proving that a race