DERMATITIS TRAUMATICA ET VENENATA IN COAL-MINERS 315 of the extensor surface of his riyht arm against the inner surface of the lower third or lower fourth of tlie right thigli produces an intertrigo of the parts in contact. In no case, however, have 1 seen a malignant condition result such as one gets in sweeps. The ti'eatmeut which has been fo\nid to be most serviceable consists in warm local boric acid baths followed by the application of car- Ijolic oil (1 in 30), combined with rest of the affected parts. Strips of dry boric lint should be placed in the diseased clefts after each appli- cation of carbolic oil, or they may be soaked in the oil previous to their being applied. Oxide of zinc, starch, bisnuith, calamine, fuller's earth, and other powders of the same natin-e, or combinations of these so-called harmless powders, do far more harm than good, and greatly encour- age a relapse through tlieir tendency to cake. (2) Eczema of the. External Amlitory Meatus. —Eczema in this region is iisually of the acute vesicular type, and is to be met with in all degrees of severity. The chief cause in coal- miners is the irritation produced by the presence of coal-dust and stone-particles which gain access to the external auditory meatus while the hewer is working, as he often has to do, with his head abducted. A right-handed hewer would thus iiave the left ear atl'ected, a left-handed hewer the right car. The sharp and angular particles of stone are more apt to cause irritation than tlie particles of coal. If the cerumen is abund- ant, the particles become entangled in it, and the two ultimately form a plug of impacted cerinnen. ^Vhen removed, they arc seen to be usually tubular, and they vary in length from \ to I of an inch. Such a condition causes an impairment of hearing, and gives encouragement from its recurrence to an attack of eczema. In some of the occupations in the pits the danger to life is increased by an auditory apparatus in bad working order, and hence pitmen soon consult a medical man if there be any sign of deafness. Should tlie eczema cause a narrowing or tortuosity of the canal throughout its whole extent, it may necessitate the pitman's ciianging iiis occupation. i'ainting the atl'ected region with friar's balsam seems to fail in curing this troublesome affection. To soften the plug thick castor oil should be dropped into the ear nightly for tin-ee nights in succession. On the fourth night the ear-channel should be syringed out with warm, weak bicai'bonatc of soda solution, and the jjliig extracted by a Volkmann's spoon or small forceps if need be. The ear is tlien plugged witli narrow strijjs of lint which have been previously saturated in melted mild antiseptic ointment. The meatus soon returns to a normal condition. If eczema of the ear lias already developed, syringing witli warm, weak soda solution eases the pain, and this, when per- formed every second or third night, may in itself be sufficient to cure the eczema. If not, the solution should be mopped up after syring- ing, and boric acid in tine powder l)lown into the ear. Salicylate of soda solution (1 in 50) is useful in allaying the j^ain also. (3) Circumscribed Injia)iiinati<m of the Ex- teroKil Auditory ]\featus.—This affection usually shows itself in the form of small boils. It is accompanied by a good deal of pain, the patient is usually " run down " in condition, and hence requires sj'stemic as well as local treatment. The latter consists in incision of boils and syringing with warm, weak boric solution. Strips of lint soaked in carl)olic oil (1 in 40) are very soothing as well as healing. (4) Sineat Bashes.—These are common, and are usually of an erythematous type, often scarlatiuiform. A strong dose of calomel usually has the best effect. (5) CaUosities. — {a) Onsetters Hands.—This is a rare and peculiar condition resembling Dupuytren's contraction. Coal is removed from tlie place Avhere it is hewn to the pit-mouth in tubs. Youths, called onsetters, have to push and pull these tulis, which are simply small railway waggons capable of holding, say, six hundredweights of coal. They do so by grasp- the upper rim of the tub with the hands in a position of semiflexion. The movements of the hands cause oft-repeated pressure on the palms and on the flexor siu'faces of the digits, with the result that the skin gets thickened and callosities form on the areas exposed to pressure. No pain is exj^erienced, but the retraction of the fascial structures is slowly progressive, and results in a varying degree of flexion of the digits. The middle finger suffers most, and hence differs from Dupuytren's contraction, in which the middle finger is not so much flexed as the two inner ones. The condition is often bilateral. Hot baths nightly, followed by energetic inunction witli fatty substances, or the ajiplication of stinndating liniments, entirely fail to make any lasting impression except at a very early stage. Subcutaneous division of the contracted structures seems to be the only real remedy. {b) Yard - Stick Cal/osit/es. — Officials carry yard-sticks occasionally whilst traversing tlie low passages of the pit, and callosities some- times result from the grasp taken. Such a con- dition might prove useful in the identification of officials found dead. In one instance brought to my notice by Dr. Trotter of Bedlington the official obtained support from his yard-stick while walking in a stooping position by grasp- ing his wand about the junction of its upper and middle thirds in such a manner that two callosities were produced. ]>y fully flexing the little finger of the right hand on the palm, and opposing the tluunb to the other three the yard- stick was grasped in such a way that a callosity developed on the extensor aspect of the proximal