300 DEMENTIA Dementia,.—Dementia was at one time employed almost as if it were a synonym of insanity; but now it has a more restricted meaning, signifying the morbid psychical state in which there is enfeeblement (or absence) of intellect and will. It is always acquired, and on this account the term dementia congenita as a synonym for idiocy is an incorrect iise of the word. Several varieties are enumei-ated, among which may be named dementia agitata, dementia afFectata, dementia alcoholic, dementia apathica, dementia apoplectica, dementia choreica, de- mentia chronic, dementia epileptic, dementia paralytica, dementia senilis, dementia toxica. These names explain themselves. See also Adolescent Insanity {Primary Dementia and Dementia Attonita) ; Alcoholic Insanity {Per- manent Dementia); Brain, Tumours of {Diagno- sis) ; Chorea {Hereditary Adult Chorea, Diagno- sis) ; General Paralysis {Synonijms, Dementia Paralytica); Insanity, Pathology of {Changes in Cortical Nerve Cells); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Biology of Conscioiisness) ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Primary Dementia); Memory in Health and Disease {Progressive Amnesias); Mental Deficiency {Develojymental Cases, Syphilitic); Paranoia {Progressive Sys- tematised Insanity); Senile Insanity {Simple Dementia, Complicated Dementia). DemiSSiO Animi.—Depression of spirits. Demme'S Bacilli. See Skin, Bac- teriology OF {Bacteria identified with various Diseases, Erythema Nodosiun). Demodex Folliculorum. See Parasites {Anthropods, Arachnoidea, Acarina, Demodex); Scabies or the Itch {Other Acari, Demodex). Demography.—A word recently intro- duced, signifying the life conditions of com- munities or nations as revealed by statistics of births, marriages, deaths, prevalent diseases, etc. See Vital Statistics. Demonomania. — Religious melan- cholia in which there are delusions of possession by evil spirits; demoniac possession; demono- pathy. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Melancholia). Demorphinisation. See Morphino- mania {Treatment by withdrawal of the drug, sudden or gradual, or hy svhstitution of another drug). Demulcents.—Substances which have a soothing, lenitive, and protective effect, such as acacia, gelatin, glycerin, honey, starch, tragacanth, and white of egg. Dendrites. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve).—The branching processes which form a network in close proximity to a nerve cell -, they do not include the axon, but arise from the other processes or dendrons. DendriticUl Ce r. —A peculiar branched (or ti'ee-like) ulcer seen on the cornea. See Cornea {Bulhms Affections, Dendritic Ulcer). Dengue. Definition ...... 300 Geographical Distribution . . . 300 Etiology 300 Clinical Features .... 301 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . 302 Treatment ...... 302 See also Epidemiology' {Seasonal Fluctuations). Synonyms.—Dandy, Breahbone, Three days' fever, Abu rokab, Kidinga pepo, Sca7-latina rheu- matica, etc. Definition.—A specific disease, severe but not dangerous; usually distinguished by fever of sudden onset, intense muscular and joint pains, and later a rubeoloid eruption. Endemic in some countries, it usiially occurs in regional epidemics, and since originally recognised (1779) has thrice assumed pandemic proportions. Geographical Distribution.—Among East- ern countries, Arabia, China, and particularly India and the island countries adjoining, are subject to its visitations. Epidemics in limited parts have occurred on all sides of Africa, except the extreme south, and in Egypt and Zanzibar especially. In Europe its outbreaks have been confined to Spain, Greece, and Asia Minor. In the Western Hemisphere the list includes Bermuda, the West Indies, Southern States, parts of South America, and even as far south as Tahiti. It has also reached Sydney and Brisbane in Australia. Sporadic cases are reported by Sandwith in Egypt, and also occur in Arabia, Zanzibar, Bermuda, West and East Indies, and Honduras. In some of these the disease was apparently first introduced during an epidemic period. Etiology. — In suddenness, rapid difFusion, and the enormous proportion (sometimes as great as four-fifths) attacked in a community, dengue has no equal except influenza. Again, in dependence on temperature and altitude it resembles yellow fever, which in some places it has closely preceded or followed, in the latter event reproducing, according to Smart, the features of the milder cases. Essentially a disease of the tropics, and usually selecting there the hot season, its ordinary limits are given by Manson as 3247 N. and 23-23 S.; yet in warm weather epidemics, always checked by winter, have extended to Southern Europe and Philadelphia. Coast and river districts and low levels suffer far more severely than inland parts and high