COLON, DISEASES OF 181 that the patient can carry on her employment. Still, the piililished cases are on the whole encouraij;inii, and one of our patients appears to be permanently cured. We have found that it is quite unnecessary to wash out the bowel from the artificial to the natural anus. In more than one case the formation of membrane ceased when the bowel was attached to the colotomy wound, even before it was opened, showing apparently a reflex arrest of the morbid process. This quite accords with what we have said as to the importance of the neurotic element in meml)ranous colitis. Recently Einhorn has adopted the following method of treatment. During the attacks he orders rest in bed, gives some opium ; between the attacks he injects eight to fifteen ounces of warm olive oil mto the bowel every night. This the patient, if possible, retains. These injections are given nightly for three weeks, and are then gradually reduced in frequency till one only is given every week for five or six months. Secondary mevihranous colitis is not of much clinical importance, for the maladies with which it is associated are so severe as to mask any dis- comfort due to the membranous colitis. As dyspeptic membranous colitis is rarely fatal, the ])'hrase membranous colitis as used in the dead- house nearly always refers to the secondary form ; on the other hand, the phrase as used in l)ractice nearly always refers to the primary form, for patients affected with the secondary variety do not often pass much membrane. Direct irritation may cause secondary mem- branous colitis, as in the cases in which it has followed viercurial poisoning, in which condition it is almost certain that the membranous colitis is due to the excretion of mercui-y into the large intestine. It may also be sejitir, as in the case of a woman who died of puerperal fever, and in whom the whole of the large intestine was buried by a greenish-black membrane. Second- ary membranous colitis may also be associated with Jh'i(/ht's disease, pneumonia, diabetes, and cancer, and it is said, too, with other specific fevers and tubercle. Fat necrosis of the peri- tonevnu has been seen in cases of membranous colitis. 3. Ulcehative Colitis.—The colon is fre- quently ulcerated as a result of typhoid fever, dysentery, tuberculosis, or malignant disease; l}ut from time to time we meet with cases in which this part of the bowel is extensively ulcerated quite apart from any of these diseases. Observation at the bedside has shown that nearly all patients in whom this independent ulceration is found after death have during life presented such a grouping of symptoms as to enable us to predict that the colon would be found ulcerated. To this disease, with its characteristic symptoms and characteristic morbid anatomy, the name simple ulcerative colitis, or, more shortly, ulcerative colitis, is applied. It is a bad name, because the colon is ulcerated in other diseases ; but it is so gener- all}^ used that much confusion would be caused by any alteration of it at present. The cause of this disease is luiknown, but it is probably due to a micro-organism; and possibly different varieties of it are caused by different but closely allied micro-organisms. It appears to be more common in asylums than in ordinary practice, but otherwise nothing certainly is known of its relationships except that it is often associated with Bright's disease, but it is said in olden days to have been associated in asylums with typhus. Statistics would seem at first sight to show that it has been more commonly met with of late years than formerly, but this is probably due to the fact that we have only recently learned to recognise it. It is not a disease of childhood nor of old age, for the patients are usually Ix'tween 2-5 and 55 years old; it is e(|ually conunon in men and women. Symptoms.—It is nearly always the state of the bowels which seriously directs a patient's attention to his illness. The first symptom which he remembers is usually abdominal pain, generally griping, sometimes very sharp and severe, and often sudden in its onset. Soon it disappears, only to reappear later. The duration of these painful attacks varies from a few minutes to many hours, and their alternate appearance and disappearance is very character- istic. The pain is always referred to the front of the abdomen, but its exact position varies in different cases, and also in different attacks in the same patient. Occasionally there is also pain in the back and loins ; and once I have known a patient comj^lain of such severe pain in the front and the sides of the chest that she was incorrectly thought to have pleurisy as well as ulcerative colitis. In acute cases the fii'st attack may be excruciatingly severe, but often it does not cause much suffering; the intensity of the pain, however, increases in each succeed- ing attack. In the interval between the attacks the patient is usually quite free, or he may com- plain of a dull pain in the abdomen. It should be mentioned that the pain bears no relation- ship to the ingestion of food, but is commonly worse when the bowels are open. The mere presence of ulcers is insufficient to explain the pain, for it is conmionly absent in typhoid fever; it is probably due to some peculiarly irritating ingredient of the contents of the intestines, which stimulates the nerves exposed on the fioor of the ulcer, and thus sets up irregular peri- staltic contractions. In the majority of cases there is no abdominal tenderness; when this is present it is rarely intense, and most often it is especially marked over some part of the colon. The presence of severe diarrhoea—sometimes interrupted by short periods of constipation—is almost of equal symptomatic importance to the