23 BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS grindclia robii«ta, or bromide of annnonium may be especially indicated. Wlieii tlie cough is ex- cessive and aimless, and due largely to mere bronchial irritation rather than the amount of secretion to be expectorated, some sedative should be combined with the other remedies, such as morphine, codeine, compound tincture of camphor, belladonna, stramonium, hydro- cyanic acid, etc.—e.g. R Ext. liq. grind, rob.; ext. liq. myrtus chekan, aa I^^x.-xx. ; tinct. lob. eth. W\x. ; chlorof. ad 3,]. Quatt. quae, liora. When, on the contrary, the bi'onchitis is associated with profuse muco-purulent expectora- tion, the various prei^arations of opium and other direct sedatives should never be given without the most careful consideration, and then only with great caution, and in combination with some stimulant expectorant, such as the carbonate or ciiloride of ammonium with squill and senega. In these cases there is often con- siderable general weakness, for which iron, quinine, arsenic, and dilute mineral acids are desirable, especially in those cases in which the expectoration continues to be excessive despite the exhibition of the foregoing remedies, and in these conditions resort may be had to various gum-resins and other expectorants, examples of which ai'e the balsams of Peru and tolu, Canada balsam, ammoniacum, copaiba, cubebs, creasote, tar or tar-water, terebene, turpentine, terpine hydrate, oil of sandalwood, etc., etc. Wilson Fox has recommended the tincture of larix Europoea as a valuable remedy in this class of cases, and also suljjhur given internally as an electuary, combined with bitartrate of jjotash. For the chronic bronchitis of the aged, Whitla has fomid ammoniacum a most valualile ex- pectorant ; it relieves wheezing and promotes expectoration. Cod-liver oil is often singularly valualile in \'ery chronic cases, especially in those attended with profuse expectoration. Not only does it improve nutrition, but its use is often followed by a remarkable diminution in the secretions of the bronchial mucous membrane when all other remedies have been tried without effect. Nor should we forget that the weakness and dilata- tion of the right side of the heart, with which chronic bronchitis is so often associated, calls for such remedies as digitalis, strophanthus, and ether. (3) Local Applications. — Local applications include various inhalations and spi'ays, and intratracheal injections. For steam inhalations, benzoin, terebene, oil of Scotch pine, and creasote are commonly employed ; thus a iiuid drachm of the compound tinctui'e of benzoin may be mixed with a pint of hot water at 104° F. and the steam inhaled. If there is pain or bronchial spasm, two or three minims of chloroform, conium, or laudanum may be added. With the pine oils and creasote it is well to add carbonate of magnesia, a useful formula being creasote, lT)^x., or oil of Scotch or Swiss pine, ITl^xl.-lx. ; light carbonate of magnesia, 20 to 30 grs. ; water to 1 fl oz. for each inhalation. Atomised aqueous solutions of ipecacuanha wine as recom- mended by Murrell, chloride of ammonium, very weak tar-water, Tised with a Richardson's or other form of atomiser, or terebene, eucalyptol, menthol, or thymol, dissolved in vaseline oil, may be mentioned, as well as the wearing of a respirator with a small quantity of cotton-wool or sponge upon which has been dropped some of the volatile expectorant. The value of intratracheal injections, by means of a syringe with a long suitablj^ curved vul- canite nozzle, in certain cases merits careful consideration; the method is little practised, but is highly commended by those who have had recourse to it. It is particularly in patients with tenacious muco-purulent expectoration, and in putrid bronchitis and bronchiectasis, that the method is called for. Guided by a laryngoscopic mirror, the nozzle is gently but quickly jiassed below the vocal cords and the syringe emptied. Commencing with a drachm for each injection, the patient soon learns to tolerate two or three drachms being thrown in at a time. An oily menstruum, either olive or almond oil, or liquid vaseline, in which menthol, terebene, eucalyptol, or creasote have been dissolved (about three to five grains or minims to the fluid drachm, separ- ately or in combination), forms a suitable injec- tion. Grainger Stewart's formida for bronchi- ectasis is—menthol, ten parts ; guaiacol, two parts ; with olive oil, eighty-eight parts ; a fluid drachm being injected daily. Another suitable formula is—chloroform, m^xxx.; balsam of Peru, oij. ; oil of eucalyptus, 3ij-; castor oil to sj. ; half a drachm being injected once or twice daily. (4) External Ajypilica tions, Massage, and Baths. —One of the most imjsortant means of relieving chronic bronchitis is counter-irritation, long con- tinued rather than severe. Of various stimulat- ing liniments, we may mention the compound camphor liniment, turpentine liniment with acetic acid, or a liniment containing cantharides or capsicum, or the application of iodine in solu- tion, or mustard oil will be suitable for the pur- pose. The vigorous rubbing of the skin in the application of liniments is no doubt in itself beneficial. Nor should we overlook the im- doubted value of systematic massage and Swedish exercises in a large proportion of cases. In young adults, cold baths followed by friction with a coarse towel, needle-baths, in fact a course of " hydropathic treatment," may be helpful in restoring vascular tone and the patient's general health, while materially assist- ing in the treatment of the lironchial affection. III. BEONCHrns in Children EriOLOGY.—Bronchitis occurring in children,