noi DENCxUE altitudes, perhaps a result of freer conuuiinica- tion, a possibility supported by the fact that towns, particularly the dirty, overcrowded parts, usually provide the startin;j;-point and chief field for its outbreaks. Additional evidence that it is comnuuiicaltle is foinid in the numberless in- stances recorded of direct conveyance of infection, the particular liability of immediate attendants on the sick, and in its advance along the trade routes. All ages and Ijoth sexes, too, seem equally susceptible, and although coloured people have occasionally suffered least, they evidently possess no iinniiniity. vVlthough no organism has yet Ijccn definitely proved to l)e the cause, ]\l'Laughlin fomid in the blood of twenty patients, without exception, a micrococcus possessing unique biological char- acteristics, and succeeded in cultivating it in media and in blood ; he was, however, unable to investigate further. Whatever be the value of his researches, the striking resemblance in mode of spread which the foregoing facts show that it bears to other dis- eases of proved parasitic origin strongly suggest a like cause—an organism dependent for its highest activity upon high temperature, low levels, lack of air-space, dirt, and overcrowding. One cannot doubt its being comnuuncablc, but its occurrence in epidemic form may depend upon these other factors, a supposition favoured by the immunity enjoyed in 1871-72 by ships of the Indian S([uadron in free communication with infected ports, and liy the fact that, although actually introduced into some, only isolated cases occurred. Together with the short in- cubation (a few hours to five days), it would largely explain the chief arguments against its infectious nature, namely, the large proportion almost simultaneously attacked, dependence on local conditions, and presence of sporadic cases before epidemics. Clinical Features.—The patient is often attacked with absolute suddenness, and almost at once prostrated, but sometimes premonitions, such as malaise, painful twinges, gastric un- easiness, thirst, headache, or lassitude, precede the onset by some hours—more frequently, in Maclean's opinion, towards the end of an out- break. Headache, severe, perhaps paroxysmal, and associated with a sense of fulness in the skull, rapidly increasing fever, and usually severe pains, usher in the attack. The first intimation is not infre(juently given by twinges in a finger or elsewhere, thence rapidly extending to otlier parts of the body. Pain and sense of fulness in the eyes, which become injected and ferrety, aching in the loins, and great susceptibility to external air, though rarely definite chills or rigors, are also com- plained of. The skin is hot, with occasional fugitive perspirations, and the face suffused with a deep flush, disappearing momentarily on pressure, and often attended by puffy swelling. This, which is not invariable, and is usually transient, constitutes the initial eruption, and may extend over part or most of the l)ody. With it the buccal mucous membrane is fre- quently involved, reddened, congested, or even superficialljr ulcerated, resulting in soreness of mouth and throat. Throughout the entire ill- ness anorexia is a prominent symptom, while gastric uneasiness, nausea, or vomiting are often present, esi^ecially after ingestion of unsuitable food. The tongue is coated or clean, with red edges and enlarged papilla;, the bowels are usually confined, and the urine is scanty and high- coloured, though rarely albuniinous. The pulse is rapid or little affected, and the respirations are hurried from pain and fever. The temperature rapidly rises, perhaps as high as 103" to 105° F. or more, but declines quickly—to find it maintained above 102" being in Fayrer's experience exceptional. Previous disease, such as malaria, may modify this, like other symptoms, by increasing its severity and persistence and making it more ague-like. By giddiness, pain, and faintness the patient is soon completely prostrated, and his sufferings are increased by his extreme restlessness. No posture is comfortable, while every movement causes increased torment. Marked nervous symptoms are rare, V)ut con- vulsions occasionally mark the onset in children, and at the extremes of life resolution may be attended by great depression. Insomnia, too, is a common feature ; delirium may accompany high fever, and temporary loss of smell or taste has at times been noted. The pains experienced may be hitermittcnt in character and referred to muscles, bones, and joints. There is often an uneasy stiffness, un- affected by passive movement, but acutely painful on any nuiscular contraction, worse too after rest, and frequently combined with a sense of powerless- ness. There may be neuralgic, dull, aching, or boring pain, most noticeable in the morning, sometimes metastatic, and jjossibly accompanied by swelling of joints. Second Stage. — This first stage terminates after one to three days, gradually, or more often by crisis, marked by profuse sweating and diuresis. Bilious diarrhea and ha}morrhages may also occur now or earlier, particularly epistaxis, which has a great effect on the headache. With fall or remission of temperature the pains abate and the iDatient feels well, though debilitated and perhaps subject to " reminders," such as twinges, anorexia, languor, and irritability. Third Stage.—Yroni the fourth to the eighth day of illness the terminal eruption appears, sometimes attended by slight transient return of fever, and the pains recur with, at times, greater intensity than before. This eruption is