DERMACENTOR AMERICANUS 304 Dermacentor Americanus.—A variety of tick or ixodes found occasionally in horses and oxen. See Scabies {Other Acari, Ixodes). Dermamyiasis Linearis iVIi- grans Sstrosa. >See Creeping Erup- tion. Dermanyssus Avium. *S'ee Scabies OR the Itch {Other Acari, Die Vogelmilbe). Dermataig'ia. —• Cutaneous neuralgia; liypertesthesia of the skin. Dermatauxe.—Hypertrophy or thick- ening of the skin ; dermatolysis. Dermatin. — A protective application, said to consist of salicylic acid, kaolin, starch, talc, and silicic acid. Dermatitis. Herpes {Diagnosis, Dermatitis Herpetiformis); Micro - Organisms {Blastomi/cetes Dermatitidis); New-Born Infant {Diseases ; Dermatitis Exfoliativa Neonatorum); Pellagra {Symptoms, Dermatitis); Pemphigus {Etiology ami Pathology, Diagnosis from Der- matitis Herpetiformis); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Impetigo Herpetiformis); Psoriasis {Diagnosisfrom SeborrhoicDermatitis); Skin, Bacteriology op {Seborrhoic Dermatitis); Syphilis {Acquired, Secondary, Affections of the Skin). Dermatitis Exfoliativa Neona- torum.—A disease of the skin occurring in the second or third week of life, characterised by excessive and general (rarely local) desquama- tion of the cuticle ; Ritter's disease ; keratolysis neonatorum. See New-Born Infant {Disease.^, Dermatitis). Dermatitis Herpetiformis. Types 304 Symptoms ...... 305 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . . 306 Diagnosis 306 Prognosis ...... 307 Treatment 307 Synonyms.—Hydroa, Duhring's disease, pem- phigus pruriginosus, dermatitis multiformis, including herpes gestationis. The alternative name, Hydroa, appears to the writer to present obvious advantages over the cumbersome title applied to this disease by Duhring, which is, however, here employed in accordance with general usage. Dermatitis herpetiformis includes a large and somewhat inchoate group of vesicular and bullous skin eruptions, having close relation- ships on the one hand with pemphigus, and on the other with the bullous erythemata. It is only within the last fifteen years that the dis- ease, as now understood, has been generally recognised as a separate morbid entity. Hebra certainly observed cases which he regarded as variants of pemphigus, and Kaposi maintains this view even to the present day. Bazin dimly foreshadowed the outlines of the group, while a posthumous paper by Tilbury Fox, published in the American Archives of Dernuitology, clearly showed that that distinguished author distinctly recognised the special clinical features which characterise the disease, many typical examples of which he had accurately observed. It is, however, to Duhring that the credit is usually ascribed of finally isolating dermatitis herpeti- formis from its congeners, and his admirable description, published in 1884, still holds good to a large extent and almost justifies the patronymic nomenclature frequently applied to the disease. More recently Brocq, of Paris, has published many elaborate articles on the sub- ject, insisting especially upon the existence of two separate forms of dermatitis herpetiformis —the acute and subacute,—but these distinc- tions are not admitted by Duhring. Unna and many other writers have combined to create a mass of ill-digested literature, out of all propor- tion to the practical importance of the subject, dwelling mainly upon petty details of little scientific value, as our knowledge of the etiology of the disease — which must always be the rational basis for scientific classification and differentiation—remains virtually an unknown thing. There is much difference of opinion as to what " types" ought to be included under dermatitis herpetiformis, more especially as to the following:—(1) hydroa (vel herpes) gesta- tionis, (2) impetigo herpetiformis, (3) hydroa vacciniforme, (4) Hallopeau's chronic pustular dermatitis in excentrically progressive groups. Without entering into any elaborate discussion on the point, it may be said that dermatologists are now practically unanimous in accepting the first and in rejecting the three last as forms of the disease under consideration. Unna and Jamieson are strongly opposed to the inclusion of any form of skin disease which is not essenti- ally chronic in its course, and in this view the writer fully agrees. The " types " described by Duhring are gener- ally accepted, and are as follows:—(a) The erythe- matous, including the urticarial forms; (i) the vesicular, or commonest forms; (c) the bullous; {d) the /jopw-^a?', seldom extensive; (e) the pustidar, 'in which pustules are present from the first, and which many would classify along with impetigo herpetiformis ; and (/) the multi- form, in which the several foregoing types co- exist. With reference to type (e) Allan Jamieson has recorded a case in the International Atlas of Hare Skin Diseases which presented features common to impetigo herpetiformis and dermatitis herpetiformis, forming, as he thinks, a connect- ing link between the two. The former disease