DYSENTERY 449 of the case and the tolerance of the remedy, and are to be persisted in until the symptoms sub- side or until it is evident that the treatment is ineffectual. No advantage in the way of pre- venting nausea is to be expected from a reduc- tion of the dose, for large doses often give rise to less disturbance than small ones. Nor is vomiting, unless excessively protracted, to be looked upon as something to be avoided. On the contrary, by emulging the bile-ducts, l.)y causing free perspiration, and by the general succussion of the system to which it gives rise, the emetic action of ipecacuanha is salutary in dysentery. Should the remedy be rejected shortly after it has been taken, twenty drops of laudanum should be given before the next dose, the mustard plaster being again apj)lied. The first sign of improvement is usually the appearance of fteces in the stools, followed by an abatement of all the symptoms. The remedy should be continued at longer intervals until the blood and mucus has disappeared from the stools. If diarrha^a continues, it may be treated with Dover's powder or bismuth. De-emetinised ipecacuanha has been recom- mended in the treatment of dysentery, but its value as a substitute for the ordinary powder is doubtful. Saline Tr&itment.-—^In the saline treatment the sulphate of sodium is the salt generally preferred, as being less nauseous and irritating than the magnesium sulphate. Three-quarters of an omice, more or less, according to the age of the patient and the effect of the drug, is to be given either in a single dose in the morning, or in smaller doses repeated every half-hour until its purgative effect is manifest. These doses are to be given daily until the stools lose their dysenteric character. Given in this way its purgative action is over before night. Trousseau was of opinion that the cure is the more certain the greater the number of the evacuations. I quote this opinion to emphasise the fact that no danger is to be apprehended from free purgation, while the employment of small irritating doses is worse than useless. I conceive, however, that excessive purging is not without danger. Some recommend 60-grain doses of Epsom salts with 10 minims of dilute sulphuric acid every hour, until the bowels are freely opened, instead of sodium sulphate. Other purgatives may sometimes be preferred to salines. Birch advises the use of castor-oil emulsion in the dysenteric affections of children, after having cleared out the bowel by a dose of the common oil. " In a couple of days the motions will lose their slimy, blood^y, and ciuxly appearance, and the case is resolved into one of simple diarrhoea." It maybe added that castor oil has been successfully used in the dysentery of adults. XJ&e of Calomd.—Calomel administered in scruple doses twice or three times in twenty- VOL. II I'oLU' hours was at one time looked upon as a specific in dysentery. Trousseau and Bretonneau tried this treatment with success in an epidcmy at Touraine, but had to abandon it on account of the salivation it occasioned in some subjects. When given in these doses its action is proljably chiefly evacuant, like that of sulphate of sodium. Ipecacuanha or salines being safer, this method of treatment has been abandoned. In some ej)idemies calomel given in moderate doses has proved serviceable when ipecacuanha and other remedies have failed. Niemeyer is of opinion that in the higher grades of dysentery one grain of calomel with a quai'ter of a grain of opium given every two hours is the best treatment. His experience was derived from the epidemic type of the disease in Europe. Scheube, whose authority carries great weight, gives calomel in doses of 4 to 7 grains every four or six hours, obviating constipation, if necessary, by an occasional dose of castor oil. He has not found salivation to result when so given. He adopted this treatment in preference to any other in the dysentery of Japan, where the disease is frequently epidemic and probably of the diphtheritic type. My experience of the use of calomel has been limited to cases which proved rebellious to ipecacuanha, and I have given it in grain doses combined with a quarter of a grain of oi^ium, at hourly intervals for the first fewdoses, then at longerand longer intervals. When a case of dysentery has been treated with ijjecacuanha in large doses from the heginning, and notwithstanding passes into the serous stage, perseverance in the use of ipecacuanha is not likely to prove of service, and I think calomel should be at once resorted to. If, however, the case has not been treated from the commencement, ipecacuanha should not be abandoned because the disease passes into the serous stage, but should be persevered with until it has had time to act. Calomel should neither be resorted to precipitately nor its use delayed until the case is hopeless. When the first cases in an epidemy prove unamenable to ipecacuanha it will not, of course, be necessaiy to begin every case with ipecacuanha or salines, but if calomel proves serviceable it should be given from the beginning. I have found frequent fractional doses of calomel or grej' powder of great service in the dysentery of children. In some forms of bowel complaint in children, with frequent slimj', bloody stools, a grain of the percliloride of mercury dissolved in ten ounces of water and given, as Ringer reconmiends, in doses of .30 to 60 minims hourly, is very useful. When distinct paroxysms of malarial fever accompany dysentery, quinine is to be given along with ipecacuanha or salines. If dysentery symptoms intermit, the disease is to be treated by full doses of quinine alone. We have men- tioned a form of dysentery associated with 29