461 EAR, EXAMINATION OF turned roinid and the other ear is examined in a simihxr manner. In every case both ears should be inspected, although only one may be complained of. Certain preliminary difficulties present tliemselves, but a little practice soon enables the observer to obtain the maximum amount of light, to inspect the parts through the central aperture of the mirror, and to straighten the auditory meatus by pulling the pinna sufficiently upwards and backwards. Should wax or other cause of obstruction in- terfere with the examination of the deeper parts, the ear should be sj'ringed. If the canal is ;too narrow to admit of the insertion of a medium-sized speculum, a smaller one may be substituted, V)ut the routine use of small specula should be avoided, as the field is thus curtailed and the amount of light considei'ably reduced. If it is thought desirable to remove a piece of wax or epithelial flakes with the ear forceps, or should it be necessary to use the probe, the reflector must be attached to the forehead band or spectacle frame, so that the left hand becomes free to manipulate the speculum and pinna, while the forceps or probe is held in the right. Occasionally a reflex cough is induced l)y the insertion of the speculum into the meatus. (li) The Tyiu'panic Memhmne.—The tympanic membrane (^niemhTana tympani) or drumhead is of a l)luish-grey colour with a somewhat polished surface, presenting a distinct contrast both in colour and appai'ently in consistence to the white skin lining the deeper part of the external meatus. Concave as a whole, on its outer or meatal surface it occupies an oblique plane, so that the sujjerior and posterior parts lie nearer the ob.server's eye than tiie anterior and inferior. The handle of the malleus (mamibriiim mallei) is visible on the outer surface of the membrane whitish-yellow colour traversing the mem- 1 irane from above down- wards and backwards to a point a little below the centre. At the upperend of the handle there is a distinct white knob-like projection. Outer aspect of right tympanic the skort process of the membrane, double the natural n rni i size, u, Short process; h, malleus. ihe lower raiddieofmanubrium; r, umbo; enci qu the other hand, ((, cone of liglit; c, nienibraiia ' tiaccida; /, posterior fold ; g, forms a slight CXpau- long process of incus shining • nftpn di^tinctlv through the membrane (Barr). Olten^ UlsaULtiy visible, which is situ- ated at the umbo or point of greatest concavity of the membrane. Passing downwards and forwards from the umbo towards the circumference of the drumhead may be seen the triangular bright spot ovconeo f lii/ht, with its base towards the periphery. This triangle of light often forms a conspicuous landmark in tiie field of vision, but it is subject to considerable alterations both in shape and slender ridge of size even on healtiiy membranes ; as it is pro- duced by the reflection of the rays of light from that part, and as its shape is dependent upon the plane of obliquity of the membrane, very slight changes may influence its shape and size. If the examination be now directed above the short process of the malleus, Slirapnell's mem- brane {inemhrana flaccida) comes into view, diflering structurally from the rest of the mem- brane in that the middle fibrous layer is absent. An anatomical perforation may exist in this area. Passing forwards and backwards from the short process of the malleus to the periphery are seen two elevations or folds of membrane, the anterior and jMstevior folds. They are caused by the projection of the short process, and with it constitute the lower limit of Shrap- nell's membrane. Sometimes in normal condi- tions the long process of the incus may be seen through the membrane behind the handle of the malleus, and running more or less parallel to it. If the membrane be very transparent or atrophied, other intra-tympanic structures may become visible, such as the incus-stapes joint, and even the chorda tympani nerve. For descriptive purposes the membrane may be subdivided as follows :—A primary division into two by an imaginary line prolonging the handle of the malleus downwards to the jjeriphery and forming a larger posterior and a smaller anterior segment; the subdivision of each of these segments again by a line bisecting the former one, so that four divisions result, an anterior superior, anterior inferior, posterior superior, and posterior inferior quadrant. The various lesions may be located and described as existing in one or more of these areas. The mobility of the tympanic membrane should be tested. This may be done in one or more of the following ways: — {a) By inflation of air thi'ough the Eustachian tube by the method of Valsalva, {b) by inflation by Politzer's method or by means of tiie Eustachian catheter, and (c) by the use of Siegle's speculum. Inflation of the tympanum will be described presently; it is only necessary to say here that the tympanic membrane nuist l;)e carefully observed tln-ough the speculum during the process of inflation, and the presence or absence of move- ment noted. Should Politzer's method or the Eustachian catheter be used, an assistant is required to carry out the inflation. Siegle's pneumatic speculum somewhat re- sembles a large ear speculum, but its expanded end is covered with a piece of glass placed obliquely, while to an aperture in one side of it there is attached a tube and indiarul)ber ball. The narrow extremity of tiiis speculum must be made to accurately fit the external auditory meatus so that the latter along with the siDeculum forms an air-tight cavity. The examiner with the reflector on his forehead observes the tympanic membrane, while he