126 CHOLERA NOSTRAS they not wax more rapidly in number, and elaborate more poisonous toxins ? Appendicitis would appear often to be due to altered charac- teristics of this kind endowing micro-organisms in the bowel with harmful tendencies. Intes- tinal dyspepsia and fermentation, enteritis (but a short step further forward), acute gastro- enteric inflammation can be initiated by similar agents in different stages of virulence. The bacillus coli communis, for example, is a normal peaceful inhabitant of the bowel; usually assist- ing in the struggle against saprophytic organ- isms and to check putrefaction, but easily induced, as it seems, to assume new roles, and, as circumstances favour, to become the active exciting cause of inflammatory conditions both in the bowel itself and in the body tissues. Bacteria of this class may be supposed not only to increase in vigour and numbers more markedly in the bowel under favourable con- ditions, or to elaborate more toxic poisons, but to behave in the same manner also if present in food-stuffs before ingestion, and these latter, on gaining the bowel, may be able to work evil. Whenever gastro-intestinal catarrh occurs, some predisposing cause maybe predicated with surety. The exciting cause may come from without, or may be generated within; in either case contribu- tory conditions have nearly always preceded. Insufficient food, or food of unsuitable charac- ters, lack of fresh air, weakened physical and mental powers, exposure to extremes of tempera- ture, particularly if indoors, with overcrowded and non-ventilated rooms, render the chance of an attack more probable and more severe. The most potent contributory cause of attacks of choleraic diarrhoea in babes and sucklings arises from the well-nigh ineradicable belief implanted in the popular mind, that the young were never intended to breath the fresh air of heaven except during the comparatively brief periods when they are " taken out." Unclean bottles and cups, impure milk, foods unsuited for them at their age, would often prove innocTi- ous, for the body in healthy circumstances is capable of much, if only the child were allowed enough oxygen. Of course, too little food is also a common predisposing cause, and when conjoined to close apartments almost certainly fails to permit of a successful struggle against poisons ingested. No wonder that in enfeebled, marasmic children, hot-house bred, but with less fresh air than is supplied to hot - house plants, starved of oxygen, the bacteria find a congenial soil in which to increase and multiply; little hindrance here to their running amok. Milk that is tainted, so common during summer, especially if the supply is delivered but once in the day, too large a quantity of it given at one time, allowing many of the bacteria in it to escape the antiseptic action of the stomach's secretion, a dietary composed of " bites of what- ever is going," want of regulation of the action of the bowels, constipation relieved at intervals by strong purgatives,—all are active or acces- sory causes in infants. It is probable, also, that poisons absorbed into the circulatory fluids of the body, especially those manufactured by abnormal intestinal processes, when in larger amount than can be dealt with by the liver, in virtue of its protec- tive properties, may occasion an attack of choleraic diarrhoea by a general in addition to a more local action exercised on the nerve end- ings and fibrils in the wall of the gut during their transit from bowel to vessel. The actual and true cause of choleraic diarrhoea is almost always to be found in the presence of poisonous products of the meta- bolism of living forms, and often of the living forms themselves capable of elaborating them. Under ordinary circumstances many of the active agents and some of the poisonous pro- ducts are luiable, by reason of a less activity, a more rapid and thorough neutralisation, to do much harm; but at other times they may be so generated, nourished, manured, and en- vironed as to possess extraordinary powers of development and increase. Instances of choleraic diarrhoea caused by mineral poisons, and many others of the more common chemical substances, fall to be discussed more properly under " Food Poisoning," " Toxicology." The victims of choleraic diarrhoea, if adults, suffer, as a rule, because of their own indis- cretion ; from the folly of those put over them, if in childhood. The attacks of the disease are supposed to be more apt to occur under meteorological con- ditions favouring heat by day with dispropor- tionate cold by night, or when the air is warm and moist. But these conditions can have but little effect on the mode or season of attack unless accompanying ingress of some poisonous agent or substance. And even then those who avoid the inhalation of re-exhaled, impoverished air, nor sleep in the same, long fasts, sluggish action of the bowel, and lack of muscular exer- tion, seldom are unable to overcome and inhibit the agents introduced into their bowel (unless if in most unusual quantities), which in those who live conversely would be almost certain to find a fertile soil unprotected and uncared for. Im- pure water, tainted meat, animal ptomaines are more commonly met with in hot weather; in fact, all bacterial life is more active. Symptoms.—In Infants.—The little victim to one of these attacks is in all probability appar- ently in a normal state of health up to the actual onset of the symptoms. Of a sudden the contents of the stomach are expelled, generally soon after a meal, in an undigested state, and almost at the same time a more or less fluid discharge takes place from the bowel. The dis- charge is acid, often green or green-yellowish in colour, and containing lumps of undigested