DIGESTION AND METABOLISM 370 the primary albumoses. The remaining albu- mose is not precipitable by satiiration with sodium chloride in neutral solution, and it is named deutero-albumose. The pepsin and hydrochloric acid probably act as hydrolytic agents. This conclusion is supported (1) by the fact that the digestion of carbohydrates by the enzyme ptyalin is known to be hydrolytic; (2) by the fact that similar products to those of gastric digestion may be produced by boiling proteids with dilute mineral acids, which are known to act as hydrolytic agents; and (3) by the fact that peptone may be converted by certain dehydrating agents into bodies resembling native proteids. With regard to the relative digestibility of different proteid and albuminoid bodies, the article on diet should be consulted. Conditions affecting the rapidity of action of pepsin and hydrochloric acid.—The most favour- able degree of acidity is about 0'2 \)&y cent hydrochloric acid. Other acids may replace the hydrochloric, but all of them are much less efficient. The most favourable temperature for the action of pepsin lies between 35° C. and 50° C. In neutral solution pepsin is destroyed by heating to 55° C.; but the addition of peptones to the solution raises its resisting power, so that a temperatui'e of 60° C. becomes necessary for its destruction. In the dry condition it may be heated to a temperature of over 100° C. without losing its activity. Up to a certain maximum an increase in the quantity of pepsin accelerates digestion. Numerous organic compounds, which in dilute solution destroy, or at least inhibit, the activity of micro-organisms, exert little deleterious action on pepsin. Arsenious and salicylic acids, phenol, thymol, and chloroform in dilute solution only slightly retard peptic digestion. Neutral salts of the metals of the alkalies and alkaline earths lower the activity of pepsin. Alkalies and salts of the heavy metals rapidly destroy pepsin. It is of some importance to remember these facts in connection with the administration of drugs. Accumulation of the products of digestion lessens greatly the rapidity of the action of pepsin. The duration of peptic digestion is thus greatly lessened by the simultaneous absorption of peptones by the stomach. In virtue of the presence of the rennin ferment the gastric juice produces coagulation of the caseinogen of milk by converting it into casein. This action takes place in neutral solution prior to the appearance of free hydrochloric acid in the gastric contents. The caseinogen of milk is also precipitable as such by the acid of the gastric juice, and the precipitate is afterwards peptonised. The gastric juice splits up cane- sugar into dextrose and Isevulose. This action is said by some observers to be due to a ferment invertin. Glucose and lactose are also said to be split up into lactic acid by means of an enzyme, even when bacterial action is excluded. This enzyme, however, has not been isolated, and its existence is doubtful. The quantities of lactic acid so formed are, in any case, so small that the occurrence of appreciable quantities is certainly to be regarded as pathological. The hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, in addition to its digestive action, acts as a germicidal agent. When the secretion of hydro- chloric acid is deficient, the growth of micro- organisms occurs much more readily. Amongst these organisms may be mentioned the bacterium lactis, which by its action on carbohydrates pro- duces lactic acid. Bacterial decomposition of proteids is also liable to occur. I. Examination of gastric contents.—Methods used to obtain these.—The next point to consider is the examination of the gastric co?itents. It has already been mentioned that mechanical and electrical stimulation may be used tO' produce secretion of gastric juice. The most natural stimulus, however, is the introduction of digestible food material. The object of the examination of the gastric contents is to find out how the stomach fulfils its normal task of peptonising food material and propelling it intO' the intestines as the acid chyme. For this purpose a considerable variety of " test meals "' has been employed. The following are the more important ones :— 1. A test breakfast (Ewald and Boas), con- sisting of 70 gms. white bread and 300-400 cc. of weak tea or water. 2. A lunch (G. See), consisting of 100-150' gms. bread, 60-80 gms. of finely minced meat,, and a large glass of water. 3. Riegel's test meal (given from 1-2 p.m.), consisting of a plate of soup (about 300 cc), a beefsteak of 150-200 gms., potatoes 50 gms., and white bread 50 gms. Klemperer, Bourget, Jaworski, and Gluzinski have also proposed test meals. In considering the advantages and disad- vantages of these meals, it will be found most convenient to take Ewald's breakfast and Riegel's dinner as types of the two extremes in quantity. The chief advantages claimed for Ewald's method are the following :— 1. The composition of the meal is definite and simple. 2. The siphoning off" of the gastric contents can be undertaken after a short and definite interval (1 hour). 3. Practically every patient is able to take the meal on account of its small size. Riegel's meal, on the other hand, is somewhat indefinite and complex in composition. It is difficult to fix upon the most favoxu'able interval of time after the meal, for the obtaining of the gastric contents, as it varies in individual cases,,