DYSENTERY 439 Amvehic Dysentery.—AmoebcC are met with in the stools of healthy persons and in those suffering from cholera, enteric fever, and other inflammatory and ulcerative diseases of the bowels. A simple irritation of the intestinal canal seems sufficient to lead to their multipli- cation. Schuberg, for example, found amoeba3 in the loose stools of ten out of twenty healthy persons to whom he had administered a purga- tive dose of Carlsbad salts. The frequency with which these organisms are present in the intestinal canal in health differs greatly in different regions and localities. In some parts of Italy, Greece, and Egypt, amoebre are common parasites of healthy persons. Gasser, in Algeria, examined the stools of twenty persons in perfect liealth and found amocbaj in four of them. Amoobse are more common in warm than in colder climates. This harmless amoeba coli is morphologically indistinguishable from the ania^ba met with in dysentery, which is known as the A. clysenterice. Other species of amoeba', smaller and less readily recognised, such as the A. g%itt'ida, ohlonga, sjnnosa, diaphana, verrni- cularis, and recticidaris, are also frequently present in the stools of persons in health and of those suffering from various intestinal com- plaints, including dysentery. Their pathological effects, if any, are unknown. The A. dysenterice is a unicellular, cxcentrically nucleated organism, consisting of a granular entoplasm and a homogeneous, pale green ecto- plasm. It varies in diameter from 6 to 36 /x, and often contains one or more non-contractile vacuoles. It is extremely motile and loco- motive, but becomes motionless at a temperature below 75° F. According to the observations of Grassi and Calandruccio, it multiplies by simple fission in liquid fjBces, but when the stools ai'e pultaceous the amoebae become encysted. In this state they contain one or more nuclei which develop into amojba; when ingested. Free amocbfc have been found in water and soil polluted with dysenteric evacuations, and it is probably by drinking-water or contaminated food that they gain admission into the intestinal canal. These ama^ba; frequently contain red blood corpuscles and bacteria. Hence it is contended by some that by engulfing and digesting the bacteria of dysentery the ama-bre are to be considered as useful auxiliaries to the phagocytic cells of the intestine. Others look upon them as destructive agents, producing softening, ulceration, and sloughing of the tissues of the bowel, and as vehicles for trans- porting bacteria from the bowel to the liver. They are found in the blood-stained mucus, in the minute gelatinous masses of necrotic tissue derived from the ulcers, and in smaller numbers in the liquid stools of amabic dysen- tery. They are also found in the intestinal \ilcers and the surrounding zone of diseased tissue. The numerous experiments of Kartulis, of Kruse and Pasquale, and others, prove beyond doubt that when dysenteric stools, or pus from a liver abscess containing amoebtc, are injected into the rectimi of the cat, the amoeba; multiply rapidly and induce a hamorrhagic and ulcera- tive inflammation of the bowel. Kruse and Pasquale succeeded in producing dysenteric symptoms by the pus of a liver abscess con- taining amoeba, but which was sterile as regards bacteria. These experiments, apparently so conclusive, have lost much of their value since it has been shown by Casagrandi and Barbagallo that similar symptoms and lesions follow the injection of hepatic pus containing neither amojba nor bacteria. In these cases the intestinal lesions must residt either from the irritant nature of the injected material, or from the presence of bacterial toxins in the sterile pus. Indeed, Zancarol has repeatedly produced, not a dysentery only, but a dysentery complicated with liver abscess, containing strep- tococci,'by the injection of hepatic pus destitute of amoeba and sterile to culture. In these cases it is evident that the pus was either not really sterile, or that the irritation set up in the bowel by the injection had rendered viru- lent the harmless streptococci present in the canal, and that these had given rise to the dysentery and the liver abscess. The experiments hitherto made in order to determine the part played by amoeba in the dysenteric j^rocess are altogether inconclusive. It will only be wlien pure cultiu'cs of amoeba have been obtained from healthy and dysenteric stools, and the experiments repeated with these, that we may hope for unequivocal results. Most of the experiments have been made on the cat, an animal in which non-specific irritants readily set up catarrhal and ulcerative inflammation of the large intestine. It has been too readily assumed in these reseai'ches that the inflamma- tion set up in the various experiments has been dysenteric. It is still an open question whether the A. dysenterice differs specifically, or at all, from the A. colt, and whether cither can give rise to dysentery in the healthy bowel. It must also be borne in mind that in ama'bic dysentery we always meet Avith the bacteria of ordinary dysentery-, especially streptococci and varieties of the bacillus coli communis. It is, in fact, like other forms of dysentery, a mixed infection. It is possible, although this has not been proved, that the amceba really destroy the bacteria of ordinary dysentery, and thus convert what might have been an acute into a chronic process. But this would not in every case be a gain, for we can readily believe that the invasion of intestinal ulcers by amaba will have the effect of con- verting a disease that would otherwise have yielded to treatment into a chronic and intract- able malady. Our recognition of amoebic dysen- tery as a distinct form rests on grounds which