317 DERMATOLOGY Derma.tolOg'y. — The department of medicine dealing with the diseases of the skin. DermatolysiS.—Abnormal extensibility of tlie skin due to an alteration in its contractile facidty; also extensibility with a certain degree of hypertrophy affecting various elements of the skin and sul)cutaueous tissues, leading to the localised production of hanging or loose folds of skin; cutis laxa ; cutis pendiila ; "elastic-skinned men." See Pregnancy, IxTiiA-UTEiuNE Diseases {Diseases of the Sv.hnitdtieous Tissue). Derm atomy COS is.—A cutaneous af- fection due to till' growth (if a vegetable parasite such as dermatomycosis furfuracea or tinea versicolor (due to growth of microsjooron furfur). See Skin, Parasites {Tinea). DermatomyOSitiS.—Aninflanuuatory disease of the muscles associated with cedema and erythema; polymyositis. See Muscles, Diseases (TiiJJamiiiatori/). Dermatoses.—A general term apjilied to all skin diseases, and serving as the basis of the nomenclature and classification of dermato- logy ; angioneurotic dermatoses, hajmorrhagic dermatoses, and neurotic dermatoses, etc., have been described. See Skin, Diseases, Parasites ; Drug Eruptions ; etc. DermatOSpasmUS.—Cutis anserina. See Cutis. Dermogfraphia or Dermo- g'raphism.—Tlie condition of thi' skin in which the stroke of the finger-nail or of the point of a pencil will raise a linear wheal, mak- ing it possible to write a word or two on the patient's back or chest. See Urticaria ( Varieties, Urticaria Factitia) ; Hysteria [Disorders of Circulation and Trophic Disorders). Dermoid Cysts and Tumours. See Brain, Surgery of {Cephalocele, Diagnosis); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Congenital Anomalies, Dermoid Tumours); Ejirryomata ; Eyelids, Affections of [Congenital Defects, Dermoid Cysts); Fallopian Tubes [Ttimours, Primary Dermoid); Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases of [Diseases of Lacrimal Sac and Nasal Duct, Der- moid Tumours); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged [Faults in the Soft Passages, Ovarian Dermoid); Mediastinum [Tumours, Dermoid Cysts); Mouth, Diseases of [Diseases of Floor of Mouth, Dermoid Cysts); Orbit, Diseases of [Tummirs, Cystic, Dermoids); Ovaries, Diseases ov ['Tumours, Dermoid Cysts); Ovaries, Diseases of [Primary Dermoid of Pelvic Connective 7'issue); Palate [Tumours, Dermoids); Peri- toneum, Tumours of [Dermoids); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of [Tumours of Scrotum, Sequestration Dermoids) ; Tongue [Tumours, Cysts, Dermoid); Tumours [Dermoids and Tcra- toniata). } DermoideCtomy.—Excision of a der- j moid cyst or tumour. Dermoi.—Cln-ysophanate of bisnmth. DermotylOSiS.—Hardening or indura- tion of the skin. Derodidymus or Derodymus.— A monstrosity (from Gr. o^i>>i, neck, and oiSviw;, double) with two heads and a single trunk (with two vertebral columns), and two arms and two legs, and perhaps the rudiment of a third ; dicephalus dipus or tripus. DeromeluS.—A parasitic monstrosity (from Gr. Sepij, neck, and /xeAo?, limb) in which a limb springs from the region of the neck ; a trachelo-parasite or aucheno-melus. Desalination.—The removal of saline substances from the blood [e.g. in cholera). Desault'S Splint.—An apparatus (long outer and inner splints, and an anterior splint) used in fractures of tlie thigh ; so called after the French surgeon, Desault (1744-1795). Descemet's Membrane. — Tiie posterior elastic lamina of the cornea ; inflam- mation affecting it is called Descemetitis; Descemet was a French physician (1732-1810). See Cornea [Introduction); Iris and Ciliary Body [Anatomy). Descensus.—Descent, e.g. of the testicles in fa'tal life ; prolapse, e.g. of the uterus. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of [Develop- ment, Descent of Testicle); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor [Prolapsus Uteri). Desiccation.—The action of drying up or depriving of moisture. A desiccator is an apparatus for the drying of fruit, milk, etc. ; powerful dehydrating agents are concentrated sulphuric acid or fused calcium chloride. Desma- or Desmo-.—in compound words desma- or desmo- (from Gr. Seo-juos or 8eo-/xa, a ligament or band) means relating to a l)and, bandage, or ligament, or to any connecting structure. Thus desmacyte is a connective-tissue cell ; desmalgia signifies pain in a ligament ; desmectasis is stretching of a ligament; desmo- graphy or desmology means the description of the ligaments ; desmoid tumour is a fibroid ; desmoma is" a tumour of the connective - tissue type ; desmo.?is is a disease of the connective tissue, especially of that of the skin ; and dcsmurgia is the surgical treatment of diseases or injuries by bandages. DesmO-bacteria.—Rod or thread-like micro-organisms, in contrast to the sphfcro- bacteria or cocci (round organisms), in Cohn's i classification.