CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF 99 By tlie end of tlie fourth month the baby's weight should be nearly double, and by the end of the ftrst year about three times, its original figure. During the second year the child gains from 5 to 6 lbs.; during the third, about 4^ lbs., and during the fourth, fifth, and sixth, about 4 lbs. a year. Thus l)y the end of the sixth year the weight is about six times, and at fourteen years twelve times, as great as at birth. The advantage, from a clinical point of view, of weighing infants regularly is very great. By it we can gauge more simply and surely than in any other way the extent to which a particular diet is being assimilated. If a yovnig child is losing weight, or even not gaining it for some weeks, this is to be regarded as an important morbid symptom, and its cause searched for. Growth ix Length.—The average length of a new-born baby is 19i or 20 in. During the first six months ho grows from 4 to 5 in., and in the second, 3 to 4 in. During the second year he gains from 3 to 5 in.; during the third, 2 to 3^; and during the fourth, 2 to 3. After this the gain is rather less, and amounts to 11 to 2 in. every year. By the end of the fifth year the child has generally doubled his original length. Severe chronic dyspeptic disturbance and any other morbid conditions which profoundly inter- fere with the general health arc aiit to lead to dwarfing. Rickets, if severe during early infancy, has often this effect. Chronic disease or defect of the brain generally interferes markedly with the growth of the body. Dentition.—(A) 'The Temporary Teeth.—The temporary or milk teeth are twenty in number. The following may be given as the usual ages at which they appear :—• (1) Lower central incisors . 6 to 9 months. (2) Upper central and upper lateral incisors . . 8 to 11 (3) Lower lateral incisors, and lower and upper first molars . . . . 12 to 15 ,, (4) Lower and upper canines . 18 to 24 „ (5) Lower and upper second molars . . . . 24 to 30 „ The teeth normally come in pairs—a tooth on one side cutting the gum about the same time as the corresponding one on the other side. Those in the lower jaw appear a little earlier than the corresponding ones above, except in the case of the lateral incisors. The intervals between the cutting of the different groups of teeth may vary considerably in healthy children, but the order in which they appear seldom varies. Irregularity in their order, and the appearance of teeth singly, instead of in pairs, is an indication of rickets. Sometimes teething begins unusually early, and infants may even be born with one or more teeth through the gum. Eai'ly dentition has no special clinical significance. Delayed dentition sometimes occurs without any apparent inter- ference with the child's health. Generally, however, it is attributable to rickets, and this disease should always be suspected if a chilfl has no teeth at ten months. Hymptoma of Teething.—In many cases no- thing unusual is noticed in the general condition of the child while the teeth are appearing through the gum, and there is little or no local disturbance. Often, however, there are signs that the baby has pains in its jaw when the teeth are coming, and there may also be local- ised inflammation of the gum and greatly increased secretion of saliva. With or without these local s^'mptoms we often find rise of temperature, restlessness, loss of sleep, and irritability. The appetite also may be lost, and there may be constipation or slight diarrhoea. Often the child loses weight. Less frequently slight temporary neuroses develop, e.g. there may be a constant winking of the eyes, or a frequently recurring cough or rapidity of breathing without any pulmonary disease. Some children show a tendency to certain diseases at the time of teething which they do not seem to have at other times. Thus it is not very uncommon to find a child who with the appearance of each new set of teeth has an attack of diarrhoea or bronchitis which resists treatment stubbornly while the teeth are in process of appearing, but which rapidly re- covers (under otherwise similar conditions) when they are through. Similarly, we see infants with eczema who have a marked relapse with each new group of teeth ; and often an obstinate eruption will disappear almost spon- taneously whenever all the teeth have pierced the gum. The place of dentition as a factor in the causation of disease is a matter which has been much disputed. There can be no doubt that teething is not in itself a cause of death, and that its influence in producing and predisposing to disease has been enormously exaggerated. At the same time it seems equally certain that teething, like menstruation, pregnancy, and other natural states, is often accompanied by marked symptoms both local and reflex, and like them may produce temporarily a tendency to disease which is not present at other times. When symptoms due to teething cause alarm, this is not because they are themselves such as to threaten life, but because they are apt to lead us to suspect the presence of some serious disease. Thus an attack of acute bronchitis is probably in no respect more serious in a teething infant than in one who is not teething, but in the former there may be an increase in the rapidity of the breathing and an amount of fever present which make the case simulate one of pneimionia.