CHEST, IN, OF 93 Bullet tvounds of the lung, as met with in civil practice, are usually caused by siiots from a revolver. They have little penetrating power, and rarely traverse the thorax as a whole; they may lodge in the lung, or in the posterior wall of the chest, often beneath the skin. The in- jury produced resembles that caused by any other penetrating instrument. The wound in the skin is small, and gives exit to a little ooze of blood. The features resulting from injury to the lung depend on its situation and extent; the outlying portions may be wounded without any definite symptoms; penetration of the root of the lung or its vicinity may result in pneumo- thorax, emphysema, htemoptysis, hfemothorax, etc. The presence of the bullet, as a foreign body in the chest, does not appear to add to the gravity of the injury. The rule is not to be too eager to follow tlie course of a bullet in the chest, unless it is easily felt or is producing symptoms of irritation. The large calibre and slow velocity of the rifle bullet of former days were attended with more extensive injury of the parietes, and were more likely to be complicated by the carrying in of portions of clothing, splinters of bone, etc., and the wound of the lung was often extensive, lacerated, and infected. With the modern rifle and bullet there is more likely to be a clean small hole right through the chest. Wounds of the heart and pericmrliiun are usually produced by pointed instruments or by bullets which penetrate the wall of the chest; there are certain rare cases on record in which a pointed foreign body in the oesophagus has penetrated the heart-wall. The wound of the chest-wall is usually in the precordial region, and may appear to be of very little importance. The pericardium may alone be wounded, probably when it is on the stretch between its two attachments. The wall of the heart may be penetrated or perforated; the point of the weapon may be arrested in the myocardium of the ventricles, or may enter one or other of the cavities of the heart. The nature of the wound varies with the instrument causing it; the puncture of a needle is readily filled with clot; a stab with a knife may give rise to a wound which gapes; both ventricles may be penetrated ; the apex of the heart may be cut off; a bnllet may pass right through two or more cavities, or it may lodge in one of the latter; 'a bullet of high velocity may so raise the hydraulic pressure in the cavities of tlie heart that their walls may be extensively ruptured. The pleiu-a and lung are very commonly in- jured at the same time as the heart, especially the anterior reflection of the pleura on the left side. The great vessels of the chest may also be involved, e.g. aorta, vena cava, pulmonary vessels, azygos vein, etc. A wound of the heart may interfere with its functions in various ways; its action may l:)e arrested altogether l:)y the injury to its walls or to its valves, or by the influence of the injury on its nerve mechanism, so that the individual dies of syncope ; accumu- lation of blood in the pericardium (hccmoperi- cardium) is a very constant accompaniment of wounds of the heart; it may be derived from one of the coronary arteries or from one of the cavities; if it does not escape externally from the wound in the pericardium, it accumulates and presses directly on the heart, so that the latter may cease to beat; if it does escape through the wound in the pericardium, the patient may bleed to death. If the pleura has also been wounded, the blood may pass into the pleural cavity and re- sult in an extreme form of hfemothorax. Should the patient survive, he may become the victim of septic complications, of which purulent pericarditis and pleurisy are the most important examples. The .symptoms associated with the lesions described are very variable and inconstant. The patient may present no evidences of serious injury; he may be able to stand, or even walk; more often there is a condition of syncope or collapse, which may be rapidly fatal; there may be external ha;morrhage sufficient to cause death in a few minutes, or there may be very little or none at all. The pulse is small, rapid, irregular, and intermittent; the heart sounds may be faint or inaudible, or they may be replaced by murmurs of very varied character; an increase in the area of the cardiac dulness may indicate htemopericardium. Dyspnaa is very common, and may culminate in asphyxia; it may depend on the insufficiency of the pulmonary circidation resulting from the feeble and injured condition of the heart, or it may be due to complications such as hsemothorax and pneumothorax. Delirium, convulsions, paralysis are occasion- ally observed ; the latter one usually the result of cerebral embolism. The treatment of wounds of the heart does not differ from wounds of the chest in general. Absolute rest is essential. It may be advisable to bleed from the arm. If there be a portion of needle or other pointed instrument projecting from the wound in the chest, it should be ex- tracted slowly by alternate movements of trac- tion and rotation, so as to favour the clotting of blood in the track made by the instrument. Should there be an accumulation of blood in the pericardium it may be advisable to evacuate it: the use of a trocar and canula for this pur- pose is condemned because of its incapacity to evacuate blood which has clotted ; it does not allow one to identify and secure the bleeding- point, and its use entails the risk of wounding the heart or the pleura. Incision of the peri- cardium by open operation is the procedxu-e recommended ; great care nuist be taken not to open into one or other of the pleural cavities,