CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF 101 ments, we gain information as to his muscular, and to some extent also as to his mental de- velopment. If a finger is laid in an infant's palm it is generally tightly grasped, and if tlie child is over five months old it will probably also be carried towards his mouth. Should the child's fingers show no inclination to close on an object placed in his palm, it is a morbid sign suggest- ing usually either paralysis or great mental im- pairment. A healthy, normally developed baby ought to be able to hold his head up when he is three or four months old, accoi'ding to the degree of his muscular vigour. Only when he is eleven or twelve months old does he permanently acquire the capacity for sitting unsupported. Some children creep before they walk, as early per- haps as the ninth month, others much later. A strong baby generally begins to try to stand by the ninth or tenth month, and he may be able to do so by himself by the eleventh or twelfth. Some children can walk before the end of the first year, others not till they are nearly eighteen months old; fourteen or fifteen months is per- haps the average age. Any delay in the acquisition of these ordinary muscular actions requires investigation. It may be accounted for by the weakening in- fluence of a recent illness, or by some lesion of the bones, joints, or muscles. More conunonly, however, it is found to indicate the presence either of rickets or of mental deficiency. Development of Speech.—When the infant is twelve months old he will understand a good many words, and may be able himself to use one or two with a definite meaning. During the second year his knowledge of words in- creases fast, and before the end of it he may have begun to use short phrases. The age, however, at which normal children learn to speak varies very greatly. Should a child be unable to speak by the time he is three years old, the cause of this should be investigated. If he has sufiered much from illness, the backwardness in speak- ing may be due to this only, and will in that case pass off as he regains strength. The hear- ing should be carefully examined; compara- tively slight deafness may interfere a great deal with a child's progress in learning to speak. Perhaps the commonest cause of delayed speech is intellectual deficiency; the mental condition should, therefore, always be examined in such cases {see "Aphasia," " Deafmutism "). Order and Method of Clinical Examina- tion.—When our patients are little children we have, while using the ordinary methods, to shorten our examination as far as possible so as not to exhaust them, and also to avoid very carefully doing am'thing to cause them fright or annoyance. As a general rule, while in examining adults we proceed ni/tttem by system, investigating in turn the alimentary, circulatory, respiratory, and other organs, in young children we go rather by methods. We inspect first as much as we can without touching, then we pal- pate all over, then auscultate, and so on. There are, however, of course, many exceptions to this rule. Before commencing the physical examination it is always well to make a few preliminary inquiries. It is important, for example, first to ascertain clearly for which of the child's ailments medical advice is sought, and how long the ill- ness has lasted. The family history is also to be inquired into, the health of the parents and other children, the state of the mother during her pregnancy, and the nature of the labour when the child was born. The previous health, development, and feeding from birth onwards are very important, and special inquiries must be made as to any symptom of congenital syphilis, and as to the dates of occurrence of any of the infectious diseases. Full details of the nature and order of onset of the symptoms of the present illness should always, if possible, be obtained. While these inquiries are being made, the i child (who should, if possible, be seated on his mother's or nurse's knee) has time to grow accustomed to the doctor's presence. At the same time the medical man, without coming too near, may learn much to guide him in his further examination of the child. Physiognomi- cal diagnosis plays a far greater part in infancy than it does in later life, and the physician who is practised in this art will always be at an advantage. He must not, how- ever, trust to it for such information as can only be acquired with accuracy from the ordi- nary and more laborious methods of examination. The state of development and nutrition, the complexion and expression, and the form of the head and other uncovered parts are to be specially noticed, as well as any traces of rickets, syphilis, or other disease. The child's demeanour and the attitude he assumes are also very significant. The number and character of the respirations should be observed, and the nature of the cough and of the voice in speak- ing or crying is also worthy of notice. Then comes palj^ation, and the pulse is gener- ally felt first, lest its rate should be altered by fright or annoyance due to the further examina- tion. A shy child's pulse will be easiest felt while his mother keeps his hand in hers. The abdomen and thorax are next palpated, without the child's position being changed (at first, at any rate). The hand is also passed over the chest to feel the amount of rickety beading, if any is present, and the position and character of the heart's impulse. The consistence of the muscles and the mobility of the joints should next be examined, and the state of the ossifica- tion of the cranium and possible presence of