462 EAR, EXAMINATION OF alternately compresses and relaxes the india- riibher ball; this compression and exhaustion of the air column in the meatus causes the different mobile parts of the membrane to move. By careful observation the actual move- ments of the tympanic membrane may be seen, or a change in its position may be indicated by the appearance in one or more situations of bright reflecting spots. If the membrane moves outwards on inflation, but almost at once sinks back again, although the patient has not swallowed, it is probable that adhesions exist between it and the inner wall of the tympanum. Pathological Conditions of the Tymjjanic Mem- hrane.— Variations in Colour.—The tympanic membrane may vary to some extent in its colour, polish, and transparency consistently with a normal standard of hearing, the appear- ances being slightly modified by the intra- tympanic structures which may be seen through it. Behind the umbo a whitish area may be due to the promontory on the inner wall of the tympanum, while behind the handle of the malleus the long process of the incus or the incus - stapes joint may be visible through the membrane as gi'eyish-white structures; in the posterior inferior quadrant a dai-k area may signify the niche leading to the fenestra rotunda. In the more advanced years of life there is a tendency for the membrane to become whiter and less polished. Such normal conditions, however, may be exaggerated and have a patho- logical significance. Thus in general atrophy of the membrane, the incus, stapes, and promontory may become very appai'ent. If circumscribed atrophic patches exist, they appear as dark transparent areas which are not distinctly demarcated from the surrounding membrane ; on inflation, or when seen through Siegle's speculum, the atrophic areas show great mobility, and may bulge freely into the meatus. A cicatrix, the evidence of a healed perforation, usually presents itself as a dark transparent area, often difiicult to distinguish from a patch of atrophy, but it is more sharply defined from the surrounding healthy membrane than is tlie atrophied portion. Owing to the transparency of the cicatrix, it may only be possible to dift'erentiate it from a perforation by observing the result of rarefaction of the air in the meatus with Siegle's speculum ; if a cicatrix be present, it will be seen to move outwards when the indiarubber ball is relaxed ; in the case of the perforation no movement is observed. Thicken- ing of the membrane varying in degree and extent may show itself in the form of opaque patches, or the whole membrane may be more or less white and without its natural polish. Calcareous deposits may form in its layers and be evident as white chalky areas, sometimes of a crescentic shape. If touched with the probe their calcareous nature is at once demonstrated. The inflamed membrane presents different appear- ances, according to the degree and stage of the inflannnatory process. The congestion may be limited to the vessels about the handle of the malleus and its short process, or they may be seen radiating outwards across the membrane as a number of irregular pink lines. On the other hand, the whole membrane and the deeper part of the osseous meatus may present the appearance of deeply inflamed skin. The presence of fluid in the tympanum may be in- dicated by a yellow appearance of the lower part of the membrane, the discoloration behig bounded above by a dark line stretching across the drumhead. The membrane may be bulged outwards into the meatus either in whole or part by exudation behind it, so that it occupies a plane nearer to the observer's eye than that which the normal membrane has. It is important to learn to appreciate these altera- tions \\\ the plane of the tympanic membrane. The indrawn membrane so frequently met with is characterised by the prominence of the short process of the malleus and of the anterior and posterior folds; the handle of the malleus is drawn backwards and inwards to a varying degree so that it becomes foreshortened, and in some cases assumes an almost horizontal position; the cone of light may entirely disappear or be visible merely as one or more small reflecting spots of light. The membrane as a whole lies on a deeper plane than normal, and presents a more distinctly concave appearance. A perfora- tion may be present in the tympanic membrane ; as a rule it is single, but sometimes more than one exists; they vary in size from a small pin head to a complete destruction of the whole membrane. A portion of, or nearly the whole of, the inner wall of the tympanum may be visible through the perforation, and experience will lead the observer to appreciate the dis- tinction between the plane of the membrane and the deeper plane of the inner wall; in these cases fiirther assistance in diagnosis may be derived from the use of the probe, the hard consistence of the bony wall forming a distinct contrast to the more yielding nature of the membrane itself. The diagnosis of a perforation associated with fluid in the tympanum may be further assisted by inspecting the ear during in- flation, when bubbles of air mixed with secretion may be observed. When the perforation is very minute it may be impossible to see it, but one sign which is almost pathognomonic of the con- dition is the presence of one or perhaps more pulsating spots of light, distinctly visible on inspection. The secretion in contact with the inflamed mucous lining of the tympanic cavity rises and falls with every heart-beat; it is very doubtful if this phenomenon be visible to the eye when the membrane is intact. Granulations may be recognised as red fleshy masses varying in size ; they are of soft consistence and readily bleed when touched ; when large they constitute