183 COLON, DISEASES OF result of this is that a careless observer takes the islets of mucous membrane for polypoid growths, and the exposed muscular coat for the natural level of the colon. The vessels of the nnicous membrane are dilated. The number of ulcers varies from one or two to several dozens ; but while ulcers of recent date are often more or less circular, and vary in size from a pea to a five-shilling piece, by the time death occurs their shape is usually very irregular, and they have run one into another. Attempts at repair are very rare. Perforations may be very numerous. In some cases the small intestine is affected as well as the colon, but this is rare, and the pro- cess is much more severe and apparently of longer standing in the colon. The liver is often fatty. Associated Diseases.—I have already mentioned that the disease is common in asylums, and there patients dying from ulcerative colitis are fre- quently found to have pneumonia. Gemmel thinks the onset of pneumonia always fatal. Outside asylums, chronic Bright's disease is the condition most frequently associated with ulcera- tive colitis, and even in Gemmel's asylum, out of eighty fatal cases of ulcerative colitis the kidneys were cirrhotic in thirty-five. One of Bright's original cases of albuminous nrine is that of a woman aged 40, in whom the kidneys were hard, rough, and lobulated, and the large intestine was ulcerated throughout. Pya^mic hepatic abscesses are very rare, but occasionally a single large hepatic abscess occurs in association with ulcei'ative colitis. Treatment.—Unfortunately this avails but little. The patient must remain in bed and be kept warm. If the pain be very severe, hot abdominal fomentations are comforting. The diet should consist of milk, and often a little brandy is required, l^earing in mind the abdom- inal pain, and that the diarrhoea is often exces- sive, opium is probaV)ly the best drug to prescribe. In a severe case the patient should be kept well under its influence ; it matters little what pre- paration is given, care of course being exercised if the patient has chronic Bright's disease. Half or three-quarters of a pint of a saturated solu- tion of boracic acid at about 100° F. may twice a day be let to run slowly into the bowel through a long rectal tube introduced as far as possible while the hips are raised. Gemmel uses salol dissolved in turpentine in the same way, and he attaches much importance to the administration of quinine by the mouth. The administration of 01. eucalyptus, in capsule form (m. v. t.i.d.), has been foimd of service, and deserves a further trial. Perhaps in suitable cases it would be a good thing to open the colon on the right side, to let the fieces Vie dischai-ged through the arti- ficial anus, and then to syringe through from it with some antiseptic solution. Other Varieties.—Follicular ulceration is of very little clinical importance, so it need not detain us long. It begins by an accumulation of small round cells in the solitary follicles, which therefore swell; later they rupture and the ulcers are formed. These ulcers do not extend deeply ; they have sharply cut edges, and in a well-marked example the gut is quite honey- combed with them, varying in size from a hemp- seed to a large pea. I liave never met with any case in which there was an attempt at repair, nor, on the other hand, have I ever heard of perforation, for the floor of the ulcer is always formed by the muscular coat. The patients in whom follicular ulceration is foimd have always died of some other disease, often of the gastro-intestinal tract. Thus I find that of ten adults, one had dysentery, one cancer of the rectum, one membranous colitis, one typhoid fever, and one femoral hernia. Follicu- lar ulceration of the colon occurs about once in every 500 post-mortems in hospital practice. It is never diagnosed during life, for the symp- toms of the fatal disease quite overshadow any that might be attributable to the ulceration. It is proportionately more frequent in children than in adults. Thus Holt met with follicular ulcers in the intestine in twenty out of seventy fatal cases of infantile non-tuberculous diarrhoea. They were never seen in cases that had lasted less than a week, and the proportion of follicular ulceration was highest in those that had lasted more than ten weeks. When in the small intes- tine they were always most numerous near the ca3cum. Vascular ulceration of the colon is chiefly of pathological interest. There are two varieties of it—venous and arterial. The venous form is b}' no means uncommon, and is probably due to the same cause as venous ulceration elsewhere. The arterial is due either to blocking of one of the mesenteric arteries by an embolus, to arterial thrombosis, or to atheroma, especially that of the aorta just at the origin of the mesenteric arteries. None of these are sufficiently common to call for notice here. Hemorrhagic Ulceration. — In some diseases submucous extravasations of blood take place into the colon, and these no doubt may break down and lead to ulceration. Htemorrhagic ulcers are usually small, shallow, rounded, and discrete, although occasionally two or three may run together; submucous hfemorrhages may commonly be seen in their neighbourhood. Htemorrhagic ulcers are by no means uncommon in those who have had Bright's disease. This is what might be expected, for we know that persons with Bright's disease are particularly liable to ha'iuorrhage from any part of the body. They may occur too in other diseases, such as purpura, scurvy, and other forms of anremia. Trophic Ulceration.—It is by no means proved that the intestine is ever ulcerated as a result of lesions of the central nervous system, but several cases have been put iipon record—and quite