DISINFECTION 409 if in a ytatc of incipient deconipo.sition, gives off " nascent " oxygon freely. The latter, com- monly known as " Condy's flnid," is largely used for washing fonl wonnds, removing the smell from the hands or from vessels that have been in contact with putrid or ffccal matters, and for sweetening meat that is slightly "turned " or game ah-eady too " high." It is, however, but a feeble germicide in solutions of less than 5 per cent, and unless very dilute, it stains fabrics a deep brown. Sanitas in 2 per cent solutions may be used for the same purposes, and is free from these defects, being non-poisonous, colour- less, and non-irritant. It makes an elegant toilet preparation, and is a fairly active oxidiser. (2) Halogens. — Chlorine prejDared by the action of strong acids on bleaching powder or on common salt and manganese dioxide is in the presence of water a powerful indirect oxidiser, through its affinity for hydrogen. It fixes ammonia and breaks up hydrogen and am- monium sulphides, as well as the phosphorus compounds evolved in ptxtrefaction. But it is an luicertain bactericide. Hypochloroits acid, HgCloO, is more active than chlorine itself, and is evolved from " bleach- ing powder " (commonly but incorrectly called " chloride of lime "), an impure calcium hypo- chlorite, when acted on by acids, even though slowly, by the CO.^ in the air. On contact with moisture it splits up into HCl and atomic oxygen. Bleaching powder must therefore lie kept dry and not long before use. It is nearly valueless as a disinfectant or germicide, but very useful for destroying the bad smells from gullies, dung-pits, privies, and dust-bins after they have been eiiij^tied. The residual calcium chloride being deliquescent, it cannot be sub- stituted for caustic lime for washing walls. Iodine, though a feeble oxidiser, is a stronger germicide than chlorine, and is used by some surgeons for disinfecting their hands, but its cost alone, apart from other objections, excludes it from general sanitary practice. (.3) The oxides of nitrogen may in like manner be rejected as unstable, expensive, and other- wise misuitable. (4) Caustic alkalies destroy bacteria by dis- solving their substance as well as the albuminoid matters in which they may be embedded, but weak alkaline solutions favour the growth of most. Fresh burnt lime is thus a most effective disinfectant in the form of lime wash (not white wash, which is made with fine chalk) as an application to walls. Dry qiiicklime is caustic and dehydrating. (5) Acids, if concentrated, are of course strong bactericides, though not available in practice. But some bacilli, as that of cholera, are unable to resist very moderate degrees of acidit}', as that present in a healthy stomach, or produced by the use of sulphvu'ic or other mineral acid " lemonades," which are valuable preventives during an epidemic. Svlphuroiis acid stands on its own merits. It is a better germicide than chloi'ine or hypochlorous acid, and is still the " official disinfectant," sharing the honour with carbolic acid and sublimate. It is produced by burning crude sulphur or carbonic sulphide, but since the former is hard to keep alight, and the latter dangerously inflammable, they are fast being superseded by the use of the com- pressed gas in cylinders. It is a reducing agent, decomposes sulphides, converts ammonia, compound ammonias, and organic bases into sulphites, and bleaches vegetable colours. Sulphur dioxide (SO.,) is irritant and irrespir- able, -5 per cent having proved fatal, though 0"5 per cent can be borne for some time. It is soluble in water to the extent of 50 vols., but the solution is imstable. In the anhydrous state it is inert, acting as a germicide only in the presence of moisture ; fumigations of rooms are therefore useless unless the walls and everything to be disinfected be first sprayed or wetted throughout, when its bleaching action on all vegetable colours would be resented. In Germany it has been thoroughly discredited, but it holds its groimd under official patronage in the United Kingdom, France, Sweden, Austria, and the United States of America, wdiere, however, the authorities re- quire 4 per cent instead of the U75 per cent that satisfies ours. The only prominent sani- tarian on the Continent who retains any con- fidence in it is Vallin of Paris ; and its continued sanction by our Local Covernment Board can be accounted for only by the absence of a body of state officials engaged in original research like those of the K. K. Gesnnd. Amt at Beidin, the medical officers of our Local Government Board being all hard-worked inspectors or "chief clerks." Suljyhuric acid might under some circum- stances be employed with advantage for disin- fecting ffeces or cesspits, since Stutzer found 0'0.5 per cent in water or sewage quickly fatal to the bacilli of cholera. It wo^ild be especially useful for cleansing the bilges of vessels arriving fi-om infected ports or having had cases of cholera on board during the passage. Boric acid is a non-irritant antiseptic in surgical practice, and too nuich used as a food preservative, but has no claim to be considered a disinfectant. (6) Metallic Salts.—Though ferrous sulphate at one time enjoyed a high reputation, the only metallic salts calling for notice are those of zinc and mercury. Zinc chloride is a powerful antiseptic in solutions of 0'5 to 1 per cent, and a disinfectant in 2 to 5 per cent for all but the most resistant bacteria. None of these solutions injure metals or fabrics. " Sir W. Burnett's Fluid " contains 50 to 70 per cent, and the French " Eau de St. Luc" about 75 per cent, but the variable