290 DEFORMITIES calcaneus. In the acquired form the heel is dropped and forms a very distinct prominence, and the arch of the foot is much increased, and there is some contraction of the plantar fascia. In all cases where the heel is much dropped and the arch of the foot unduly concave, especially if contraction of the plantar structures have ensued, the outlook is bad. The chief ditticulty consists in keeping the heel up, and this is especially so when the cause is infantile pai-alysis. Treatment.—Mechanically, a boot may be used iiaving an outside steel support with a toe- depressing spring. Of course a contracted plantar fascia should previously have been divided. From an operative point of view many attempts have been made to shorten the tendo Achillis, but these as a ri;le ai'e not successful because the tendon is extremely thin. The best results in the treatment of acquired calcaneus are obtained from tendon transplanta- tion {q.v.). Talipes calcaneo-valgus and calcaneo-varus are usually due to infantile paralysis. In calcaneo- valgus the heel is depressed and the foot is turned outwards, while in calcaneo-varus the foot is turned inwards. Sufficient indications for treatment are given under the headings of varus, valgus, and calcaneus. Talipes Arcuatus and Plantaris or Pes Cavus. —In these deformities there is increased con- cavity of the arch with a corresponding dorsal convexity. In talipes arcuatus the arch is increased, but the heel and the balls of the toes are in a horizontal plane. If the balls of the toes fall below the level of the heel, and the arch is at the same time increased, then the condition known as talipes plantaris is present. The causes are slight paralysis of the anterior muscles of the leg following dentition, measles, scarlet fever, chorea, infantile paralysis. They are also associated with Friedreich's disease, and some say (e.e/. Duchenne) that they are due to paralysis of the interossei and lumbricales. The most frequent symptoms are pain in walking, increase of the arch of the foot, and corns beneath the heads of the metatarsal bones. Treatment consists in division of the plantar fascia and the after-use of a Scarpa's shoe with a single uplift- ing movement in the sole. Talipes Varus.—The acquired form is usually due to infantile paralysis and to one variety of progressive muscular atrophy in which the peronei muscles are the earliest to be affected. With regard to the appearances and treatment of a varoid foot they are sufficiently detailed in the description given of congenital talipes equino- varus. Talipes valgus (acquired) arises either from infantile paralysis, spastic paralysis, rickets, or as a sequel to Potts' fracture. The appearances in treatment are precisely similar to that of ordinary flat-foot. Flat-Foot (spurious talipes valgus) Dejinition.—Flat-foot is a deformity of the feet, often painful, characterised by abduction and eversion of the foot with loss of the arch. Weak ankles or valgus ankles. Weakly children, especially those suffering from rickets, frequently turn their feet over in walking, and associated with this condition, which is due to relaxed ligaments, there is some genu valgum. General Description and Apypearance of Flat- font.—All the changes of the foot are due to sinking of the so-called arch, not only in the longitudinal but also in the transverse direction. The depression downwards and inwards of the head of the astragalus and the outward twist of the anterior part with extreme rotation of the' foot are the immediate results. The foot is in- creased in length on the inner side and it is broadened. Flattening of the sole is also present, and the instep loses its roundness. The inner border is convex instead of concave, and is in contact with the ground. It is also thicker than normal. The heel appears to be shortened, the internal malleolus becomes extremely promi- nent in severe cases and descends downwards,, inwards, and backwards, so that its tip is either- in a line with or even behind that of the external malleolus. On the inner aspect of the medio- tarsal joint the head of the astragalus is. prominent. It sinks downwards, forwards, and inwards, and the scajjhoid becomes unduly prominent. The soft tissues over the astragalus, and scaphoid are often hypertrophied, and false burscE and thickened epidermis may be seen at these spots. In front of the medio-tarsal joint the inner border is sloped outwards, and the great toe is frequently valgoid. The oiiter border is commonly shortened and often raised from the ground. In many cases varicose veins and sweating of the feet coexist; so that it is probable that flat-foot arises from defective innervation of the vessels of the legs and feet. In exceptional cases wasting of the tibialis, anticus is seen. Degrees of the Flat-foot. — For purposes of description there may be said to be four degrees. First degree or oncoming flat-foot.—There is noticeable some sinking of the arch when the patient stands and he is told to bear the weight, fully on the foot. This sinking disappears on adduction of the foot, standing on tiptoe, and on sitting. Pain is frequently present at this, stage. Second degree or pronounced flat-foot. — The arch has sunk to some considerable extent although the head of the astragalus is not touching the ground. The deformity cannot be reduced by any effort of the patient, nor can the feet be voluntarily inverted. The perone tendons and the extensor communis digitorum are seen in relief, and there is considerable muscular spasm and pain. Third degree or-