CRANIUM 248 Craniuin. See Brain, Surgery of {Trephining); Insanity, Pathology of {Patho- logical Anatomy, The Skull); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Moulding of the Fatal Head); Physiognomy and Expression {Cranium) ; Scalp. Cranium Progenium.—Abnormal projection of the lower jaw, due to increase in its size or to defective growth of the upper jaw, with narrowing of the face, etc. See Insanity, Pathology of {SJcidl). Cra.nsa.C. See Balneology {France, Calcareous). Crapulence.—Intemperance in eating or drinking, and the effects of such intemperance (Latin, crapula, intoxication; Greek, KpaiirdXr], a drunken headache). CrasiS. — Constitution or temperament (Gr. Kfm(Tii, mixture). CraSSamentum. — The thick, jelly- like part of coagulated blood, consisting of the blood corpuscles and the fibrin; the clot (Latin, crassare, to thicken). Cratomania.—A form of insanity char- acterised by the mania of power or superiority (Gr. K/jttTos, strength ; /xai'ta, madness). Craw-craw. See Filariasis {Filaria Ferstans); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Skin Diseases of Bacterial Origin, Cr-aw-craw).—A parasitic skin disease of West Africa (Dutch, kraauwen, to scratch). Cream. See Diet {Milk audits Products); Infant Feeding {Artificial Feeding, Cream); Invalid Feeding {Food for the Aged, Milk and Cream); Milk {Dietetic) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Butter and. Cream). Cream of Tartar. See Potash and ITS Salts {Potassii Tartras Acidus). Creamery. See Milk {Industrial, Creamery). Creat.—Indian chiretta or Andrographis pjanicnlata. See Andrographis. Creat in. — An alkaloid or extractive (methyl-guanidin-acetic acid, C4lIgN.,02) occur- ring in muscle, and exci'eted in the urine in the form of creatinin (C^H-NgO), which is creatin which has lost a molecule of water. Creatin- cemia is the moi-bid state ascribed to excess of creatin in the blood. See Physiology, Tissues {Chemistry of Muscle, Extractives); Physiology, The Blood {Plasma and Serum); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Flesh); Physiology, Excretion {Urine, Nitrogenous Substances, Creatinin). Crede iVIethod.—(I) The Crede method of placental expression is carried out by seizing the fundus uteri (through the abdominal walls) with both hands and squeezing it firmly down- wards and backwards towards the pelvic inlet. (2) The Crede prophylactic treatment of the eyes of the child at birth consists in dropping one or two drops of a 2 per cent solution of silver nitrate into the conjunctival sac of each ej'e; in this way the risks of o^jhthalmia neona- torum have been greatly lessened; but it is not necessary always to use the silver nitrate solu- tion, boracic lotion or distilled water may suffice. Creduiitas. — The condition of being easily duj^ed or persuaded ; regarded as a variety of moria imbecilis or idiotism. Creepi ng' Eru ption.—Larva migrans; a skin eruption, characterised by a raised red line which may travel quickly over the body, due to the larva of the horse bot-fly {Gastrophilus ei/ui) ; dermamyiasis linearis migrans cestrosa. " Creeps." — Extraordinary restlessness and irritability, with wakefulness, dry skin, thirst, and the sensation of fulness in the limbs, due to fatigue (bodily or mental), etc. ; the " fidgets " or dysphoria. Cremaster.—The suspensory muscle of the testicle, having (in the human subject) only slight power of drawing that organ up towards the inguinal canal; the name is derived from the Greek Kpe/iuv, to suspend. Cremation.—The reduction of the corpse to ashes by burning in a close furnace ; this mode of disposing of the dead, which is prefer- able to earth-burial, if properly carried out, seems to have been first practised in Europe (in Italy) in 1869; the Cremation Society of England was formed in 1874 with Sir Henry Thompson as its first president, and, after some legal difficulties had been overcome, a crema- torium was established at Woking and cremations successfully carried out; a Cremation Act was passed in 1902, and there are now crematoria at Glasgow, Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, Hull, Leicester, Hendon, and Darlington, as well as at Woking ; the furnace used may be either reverberatory (a flame playing on the dead body) or regenerative (gas from coke being burned in the chamber), and the whole process can be per- formed in less than two hours; the cost is still considerable, but could be greatly reduced if the practice of cremation were common. It has been feared that this mode of getting rid of the dead body might check the detection of crime, but with proper precautions this is unlikely. Cremometer. — A graduated cylinder showing the percentage of cream rising spon- taneously to the surface of the milk. See Milk {Examination).