DEFORMITIES 281 that wlieii .surgeons of groat operative skill and experience have endeavoured to follow in Lorenz' footsteps they have met with nothing like the success he claims. Arlnithnot Lane states that he has had good results by fixing the head close behind the anterior inferior spine. Other Jo i nU.—Conc/tnifal dis/ocntionsof almost every other joint of the body have been met with, but they are merely surgical curiosities of no practical interest. Cerebral .wd .Si-inal Paralysis, Dekor.mities arising from The forms of cereljral and s])inal jiaralysis which give rise to deformities are : acute anterior polio-myelitis, of the cerel)ral and spinal forms ; infantile hemiplegia and spastic paralysis of childhood; locomotor ataxy and Friedreich's disease; syringo-myelia ; compression paraplegia arising from caries of the spine. Deformities arising from Acute Anterior Polio- Myelitis of Cerebral and Spinal Oriijin.—The deformities met with in the trunk are scoliosis, kypiiosis, and lordosis of paralytic origin. Of these the most interesting is scoliosis, and this is of an extremely intractable form, but it must be treated by massage, electricity, and supporting .'ip])aratus. The deformities of the arm arising from polio-myelitis are several. The deltoid is usually wasted, and there is often a paralytic subluxation of the shouldei'-joiiit. In the " fore- arm " type of paralysis of Reniak the extensor muscles are paralysed, while the supinator longus escapes. Wrist-drop then results. Occasionally the adductor nuiscles of the thumb are affected. When the lower extremities art; ccjmpletely paralysed they are small, cold, and bluish, per- fectly limp, and swing like a flail in all directions. The joints are so lax that the segments of the limbs may be made to assume almost any posi- tion. It is important to ascertain in these severe cases of paralysis of the lower limV)s if the psoas have or have not escaped, for so long as the psoas retains power the patient can be made to walk with instruments after tenotomy and when any contraction has been rectified. Paralytic subluxations are met with either in tiie hip, knee, or ankle. Treat/iient <f Farali/tic. Deformities.—In the first place every cflTort should be made from the time of onset of the paralysis to retain the limbs in as nearly normal a position as possible. That is to say, it is important to anticipate the de- formities. Electrical stimulation of the muscles, friction, and massage should be assiduously per- severed with. The active treatment of these deformities must be of two kinds—mechanical and operative. The objects of mechanical treat- ment should be to support and protect the paralysed limb in such a way that the muscles sliall work to the best advantage and tliat the joints are sujiported and controlled ; also to over- come by means of suitable apparatus deformities which have already occurred, and to prevent their recurrence. The operative treatment consists in tenotomy and fasciotomy, osteotomy, arthrodesis, and tendon-transplantation. Tencjtomy is useful in relieving the various forms of talipes of the foot, the contraction of the knees, and the flexion of the thighs. Osteotomy is not often called for. The indications for arthrodesis have been given in the article of that heading (j). 279), and the indications and methods for tendon-transplanta- tion ai'c treated under that title (p. 282). Infantile Ilemipletjia and Spastic Paralysis.— Deformities of a most persistent and intractable nature often ensue from these causes, and the arm is more affected than the leg. The position assumed by the arm is quite typical. In this limb flexion predominates. The shoulder is sometimes raised and sometimes lowered. The upper arm is generally kept parallel with the trunk. The forearm is flexed at a I'ight angle, and is genei'ally in apposition with the lower part of the chest or the upper part of the abdomen. It is almost invariably pronated, very rarely supinated. The wrist is strongly flexed, and the hand is adducted. The fingers are firmly contracted. The leg is in a condition of exten- sion, and the foot assumes a talipedic form, either of equinus or equino-varus. The mode of walking is thus : the heel is raised and the foot is lifted from the ground with difliculty, the toes scrape along the floor, and later the patient liecomcs scissor-legged in progression. The treatment is as follows:—Every ettbrt must be made, if the case V)e seen early, to prevent the onset of deformity by massage, manipulation, passive movements of the joints. The patient shoidd also be taught to use the aflected limbs as much as possible, and nnich improvement may be expected in slighter cases. With refer- ence to the use of retention apparatus, the writer's experience is that directly it is removed the spasm I'cturns. With regard to ojjerative measures in the upper extremity, the writer has lately devised and successfully carried out an entirely new form of operation. It is as follows : —The tendon of the pronator radii teres is ex- posed and separated from its insertion into the radius. A gap is made in the interosseous mem- bi'ane, and the pronator radii teres is carried round posteriorly to the radius, and is reinserted at its normal site. It therefore becomes a supinator instead of a pronator. The flexor carpi radialis and other tendons at the wrist are divided so that the wrist-drop is overcome, also the contraction of the Angers. In the lower extremities operative measures are fully indi- cated. For spastic talipes the tendo Achillis should be severed, for contracted knees the ham- strings, and in the thighs the tensor vaginiie femoris, the sartorius, and adductors should be divided. It is astonishing the amount of good that results from this proceeding. Locomotor Ataxy. — This causes spinal de-