DEITERS' NUCLEUS 297 Deiters' Nucleus.—Thtnniddlenucleus (in the pons) of the outer vestilnilar nucleus of the vestibular root of the eighth cranial nerve. See Bhaix, Physiology of {Cravial Nerves); Physiology, Nehvous System (Jlfedulla Oblongata, Cerebellvm). Dejection.—The act of emptying the howels, or the matters evacuated from them ; also, mental depression (dejectio animi). Delayed Labour. See Labour, Pre- CiriTATK AMI l'i;nI,(i\(;EIi ; etc. Delhi Boil. AVe Furunculus Orientalis. Delig^ation.—The ligation or tying of arteries. Deliquium Animi. — Mental failing; fainting; defectio aniuii. Deliramentum. — Delirium (derived probably from de, fronj, and lira, a furrow, and meaning, therefore, a deviation fi-om the normal standard of mental health); the French word delirc, it is to be noted, means mania as well as delirium, thus delire aigu is acute mania. DeliriantS.—General cerebral stimulants, causing mental excitement, such as belladonna, stramoniimi, hyoscyamus, alcohol, tea, coftec, cocoa, tobacco, cannabis indica, opium, etc. Some of these drugs have first a stimulant and later a depi'essing or paralysing influence, e.g. opium. Delirious Mania.—Synonyjis.—Acvte delirio>ifi mania; deliritnii acutvm; BelFs maniei; tyjihoiiiania. Defi.ihition.—An acxite delirium characterised by precipitate onset, rapid course, fever, extreme prostration, and usually fatal issue. History. — This disease was described fifty years ago by Dr. Luther Bell as "a form of disease resembling some advanced stages of mania and fever." Since then numerous cases have been reported in America, in this country, and on the continent. The term acTite delirious mania has unfortunately been frecjuently mis- applied to severe cases of mania or of excited u\clancholia, and in consecpience some observers have been led to doubt the existence of Pell's mania as a distinct clinical entity. This would appear, however, to be a mistaken view, as there is abundant evidence of the existence of a quite sharply characterised acute delirious mania such as Bell described. Etiology.—Most of the cases occur between the ages of thirty and fifty. The patients are frequently of neurotic constitution, and the symptoms may follow worrj', over-work, or disappointment. Other cases have arisen in association with pneumonia, septic infection, insolation, alcoholism, and injury, especially of the head. Symptoms.—There is usually, if not always, a prodromal stage during which the patient suffers from lassitude and depression of spirits, and often also from insomnia. The acute stage of the disease is entered on suddenly, and in the course of a few minutes the patient may pass into a state of the wildest excitement with vivid hallucinations, delusions of no fixed type, and outlireaks of great violence. He rushes about gesticulating, talking, singing, laughing, crying. He refuses food, and is entirely sleep- less. This delirious stage may continue for several days, mitil at length he passes into a condition of extreme jjrostration. The move- ments become ataxic, and are interrupted by twitching and spasms. The talking is replaced l)y an iniintelligible muttering. The tongue is now found to be covered with thick fur. Sordes appear iq^on the teeth. The pulse is quick and feeble. The temperature is found to be from four to six degrees above the normal. The whole aspect of the patient is that of profound nervous exhaustion. The appearance of this typhoid stage is very characteristic, and sug- gested the name typhomania oi'iginally applied to the disease by Bell, The early excitement, the want of food, and the want of sleep residt in rapid wasting of the body, which may become quite extreme under the drain of a colliquative diarrluea which some- times sets in. Perspiration is often profuse, and eruptions, pustular, bullous, or petechial, may be present. The urine is scanty, high- coloured, and may be alV)uminous. (Jradually the patient sinks into deep coma, and death takes place in from three days to three weeks from the onset of the delirium. In the rare cases that i-ecover, the patient does not become comatose, but passes through a prolonged con- valescence, regaining his bodily and mental health very slowly, and often imperfectly. Prognosis.—As already stated, the disease is usually fatal, but the mortality is variously stated by different writers. AVhen death does not occur a good deal of mental feebleness, amounting even to complete dementia, may be left behind. Pathology.—The principal anatomical changes are congestion of the meninges and of the cere- bral cortex, and occasionally areas of softening. Punctate ha,'morrhages are present, and leuco- cytes and red blood-corpuscles are found in the jjerivascidar spaces. The disease appears to be an acute infection. Organisms have been isolated from fatal cases. Rasori, for example, obtained from an area of softening in a fatal case pure cultures of a small bacillus with roimded ends which grew in the ordinary culture media at the teuqierature of the body, or of the room, and which was stained b}- the ordinary aniline dyes, but not by Gram's method. Babbits inoculated beneath the dura died in two days ; beneath the skin, in four to