DIET 357 Owing to their dense structure, kidney, liver, and heart are difficult of digestion. Tlio lungs contain a large amount of indigestible elastic tissue. Blood is also sometimes used as food, hut it contains only 18-23 per cent of solids, and is not well absorbed. The presence of much nucleo-proteid in all of the above organs, except the heart and tripe, makes it prudent for the gouty to avoid their use, seeing that nucleo-proteid is a source of uric acid. Jellies are derived from gelatine produced by boiling the collagen of connective tissue. Young tissues, e.g. calves' feet, are the most abundant source. Isinglass is a pure form of gelatine derived from the swim-bladder of the sturgeon, but it is rather expensive, and does not really go farther than ordinary gelatine. Com- mercial gelatines {e.g. Nelson's or Cox's) are as good as any other for feeding the sick. The nutritive value of jelly is considerable. Six ounces (a large helping) of good jelly yields 1| oz. of solids, of which about one-half is gelatine, the rest being sugar. This must be remembered in ordering jelly for diabetics. Gelatine being the best " proteid-sparer," jelly is an admirable food for febrile patients. The "extractives" of meat are the main constituent of soups and heef extracts. The physiological actioii of these extractives may be stated thus: — (1) They yield no potential energy, and are therefore not foods. (2) They have no power of increasing the rate or force of the heart. Their "stimulating" effect on the circulation is to be attril)uted to the hot water with which they are taken. (3) It is doubtful if they have any stimulating action on the nervous system, but they appear to remove the feeling of fatigue. (4) They taste and smell agreeably, and are, therefore, powerful aids to digestion by helping to call forth a secretion of gastric juice. (5) When taken in excess they are apt to excite diarrhoea. Hence clear soups, which consist of a solution of the extractives, have no nutritive value, but are useful at the beginning of a meal. The same may be said of beef-tea as ordinarily pre- pared. The following is the latest anal3'sis of Liebig's extract (Kemmcrich):—Water, 18 per cent; proteids and gelatine, 30 per cent; ex- tractives, 25 per cent; mineral matter, 20 per cent; ether extract, 7 per cent. It will be observed that it contains a con- siderable amount of soluble proteid, but as a teaspoonful of it only weighs 5 grms. it can never be taken in sufficient quantity to be of real value as a food. The same may be said of those preparations, e.g. Bovril, to which some of the powdered fibre of meat has been added. The large amount of salts which beef extracts contain is of very doulitful advantage, for there is no proof that the demand for salts is increased in fevers, or that the mineral matter so supplied can be made any use of. lieef Juices are prejoarations which contain the coagulable proteid of meat. The method of making raw beef juice is described elsewhere. It usually contains about 5 per cent of proteid. The junount in commercial beef juices varies from 20 per cent or more {e.g. Vitalia) to con- siderably less than 5 per cent {e.g. Valentine's), but the majority do not contain much more coagulable proteid than the home-made article. The large amount of extractives and mineral matter in the commercial juices is a positive disadvantage, as it renders it impossiljlc to administer them in any considerable qiumtity; for that reason home-made juice is to be pre- ferred. Beef jiiice is sometimes a usefid article of diet in diarrhoea (especially in children), but it is difficult to administer anything like an adequate supply of nutriment in that form alone. Fish.—There are two classes of fish—fat and lean. Lean fish is such as contains less than 2 per cent of fat {e.g. sole, flounder, whiting, haddock, cod, and trout). Of the fat fishes, mullet, halibut, and mackerel contain from 2-5 per cent of fat; the salmon, turbot, herring, and eel contain more than 5 per cent. The fat fishes are about equal in nutritive value to a similar weight of moderately fat beef; the lean fishes are poorer in nutrients than beef, and contain relatively more water and gelatine. All fish is poorer in " extractives " than meat, and for this reason fish is a less stimulating form of food than meat, and is sometimes preferable to the latter in some diseases, e.g. epilepsy. Lean fish is usually easily digested owing to the short- ness of its fibres and the absence of fat; for this reason it is suited to invalids. Fat fish is difficult to digest, and the oil in it is apt to become rancid and irritate the stomach. It should be avoided by dyspeptics. The belief that fish contains much phosphorus, and is, therefore, peculiarly suited to brain workers, is entirely unfounded. Allied to fish are lobsters, crabs, and oysters. These have the following composition :— LoliMcr Olid Crab. Flpsh. Body. Nitrogenous mattur .... 19-17 12-14 Fat 1-17 1-14 Water 76-6 84-31 OyUcr. Nitrogenous matter . . . . . . (3-2 Fat 1-2 Carbohydrate . . . . . - . -3-7 Ash 2-0 Water 86-9 The coarseness of the muscle fibres in tiie flesh of the lobster and crab makes the limbs of these animals very difficult of digestion, Haw oysters are easily digested, but of low nutritive value owing to the high percentage of water. The nature of the carbohydrate material which they contain is doubtful.