187 COLON, DISEASES OF introduced through the anus, the rectum is found to be empty, and so dilated that the finger can scarcely reach the walls, which are perfectly smooth. The cause of this condition is quite unknown ; it is not always present in malignant disease of the colon, and it may be met with in other conditions. The abdomen is often very distended, and visible coils of intes- tine may be seen contracting through the abdominal parietes. These are often more easily visible the longer the case, for hyper- trophy of the muscular coat of the distended bowel renders them especially conspicuous; but it is by no means necessary that the bowels should be hypertrophied for them to be visible, for I have seen them well marked when obstruc- tion had only existed twenty-four hours. Some- times a tumour can be felt through the abdou)inal parietes. This is more often ffccal accumulation than growth. If the growth extends low down enough it may be possible to feel it per rectum, and it may be that attention is directed to the fact that the bowel cannot hold a copious enema. Frequent rumbling and gurgling signs are heard in the abdomen. In the group of cases now being described, intestinal obstruction occurs sooner or later, and it is important to remember that even in a chronic condition, such as malig- nant disease of the colon, the signs of intestinal obstruction may come on acutely, and as, further, the signs of malignant disease of the colon may be miobtrusive until acute obstruction sets in, serious mistakes in diagnosis are by no means uncommonly made. Thus I have seen a case which was really one of acute intestinal obstruc- tion due to malignant disease of the colon called acute peritonitis ; but as a rule the intestinal obstruction is chronic, and the patients give a clear history of malignant disease of the colon. Sarcomata and innocent tumours of the colon are too rare to call for mention here. Colonisa.tion.—The treatment of the insane by their collection together in a village under superintendence but without confine- ment ; the family or cottage system of pro- vision for the insane ; such a colony exists at a heel. Colopexia..—The fixing of the sigmoid flexure by sTitures to the abdominal wall; if this part of the colon has been incised before the suturing, the operation is called co/ope.roto7)ii/. ColoptOSiS.—Downward displacement of tlie colon. .SVc ENTERorxosis. Colorado. See TuEUAPEUTiGs, He.^lth I!ES(ji(TS (J /ncrioin). Colorimeter.—An apparatus for deter- mining the quantity or intensity of colour in anything, e.cf. in the blood. See Blood {Estima- tion of Hemoglobin,, Hoppe-Sei/Ier^s Colorimetric Method). Colostomy.—An operation liy which a permanent opening (to serve as an artificial anus) is made into the colon ; in colo-colostomy two parts of the colon are connected together l)y making an opening. Colostrum.—The first milk that comes from the mammary glands after the birth of the child ; the " beestings " or " green milk." Colos- tration is a disease of new-born infants supposed to be due to the colostrum. See Infant Feed- ing {Human Milk, Colostrum) ; Puerperium, Physiology {Lactation). Colotomy. Indications for . . . . .187 Varieties of . . . . . .188 Operations . . . . . .188 ((f) Left Imjuinal Colotoviy . .188 {h) Right Inguinal Colotomy . .189 (c) Lumhar Colotomy . . .189 {d) Transverse Colotomy . . .189 After-Treatment 190 See also Colon, Diseases of ; Colostomy ; Intestines, Surgical Affections of ; etc. The operation of colotomy, or the formation of an artificial anus, is undertaken for certain grave maladies of the rectum and of other parts of the large intestine, and the modes of execut- ing the operation, and the place at which it is to be performed, depend themselves on the nature and the degree of gravity of the ailment. Formerly colotomy was regarded as an opera- tion to be postponed until obstruction was complete; now it is more generally used; it should not, however, be employed without due consideration. Indications for.—Cancer of the rectum and of other portions of the large intestine, and strictures and ulceration, whether tuberculous, syphilitic, or dysenteric, etc., sometimes com- bined with extensive fisttdo', are the main dis- eases that call for colotomy, provided that in- testinal anastomosis or resection of the stricture is found to be impossible. The chief condi- tions, besides obstruction, which may necessitate colotomy, are great severe hcfmorrliage, and intense and persistent diarrhoea. When the growth or stricture causing the obstruction is within the rectum its exact position can be felt, and the surgeon can deter- mine whether to adopt other means or to resort to colotomy; but when the obstruction is in any other portion of the large intestine, unless a growth can be definitely discovered, it is wise to make an abdominal exploi-ation, so as to find out the position of the obstruction and the best mode of dealing with it. In some forms of cancer of the rectum and other forms of ulceration the great pain caused by fa'ces passing over the growth or into fistuhe about the buttocks of itself necessitates colo- tomy.