97 CHEST-WALL, AFFECTIONS OF portion of the respiratory or alimentary tract. Ulceration of the larynx, trachea, bronchi, or wound of the pleura and lung may result in emphysema of the chest-wall. Given the forma- tion of a cavity in the hmg, the surfaces of the pleura having become adherent, the ulcera- tive process may pass through the parietal pleura, and a sudden effort of coughing produce emphysema of the chest-wall. Thus the air may pass directly from the respiratory tract into the chest-wall or by way of the mediasti- num. From the alimentary canal the air may pass into the mediastinum through ulceration of the oesophagus by a malignant growth, or into the abdominal and chest wall from the stomach or intestine, the viscera becoming adherent to the abdominal wall and the ulcerative process subsequently invading the connective tissue. In emphysema the skin is pale and elevated above its surroinidings. On palpation the part is found to be very soft and yielding, quite unlike the brawny feeling of oedema. There is no pitting on pressure, the indentation made at once disappearing, and on handling the part there is palpable and at times audi])le crackling. When the air has passed hy way of the mediastinum the swelling appears first at the root of the neck, passing up the neck and down over the chest-wall, and so advancing, obliterat- ing the normal outline. When the air under the skin remains aseptic, absorption may take place ; if, however, decomposition occurs, very grave complications result. In any case the accident is a very serious one, and, giving rise to distressing dyspnoea, is frequently the final development in aji otherwise serious condition. Tumours of the Chest-Wall These belong mainly to the domain of surgery. There are, however, certain points that must be borne in mind and carefully investigated in cases of obvious localised swell- ings or new growths. Those may be summarised as follows :— (i.) A careful examination of the condition of the aorta, anteriorly and posteriorly, with the view of eliminating aneurysm. (ii.) The question of a mediastinal new growth should be considered. (iii.) If the tumour be a new growth, is it primary or secondary to disease of the viscera, e.ff. pleura, liver, etc. (iv.) If there are obvious indications of the presence of fluid, is the condition a superficial localised one, or has it connection with a serous cavity. Affections of the Muscles of Chest Myositis, or inflammation of muscle, is rare as a primary disease, but is more common as the secondary result of a septic process; thus the inflammation may go on to suppuration. Rheumatic myositis or myalgia is common in the vol. II intercostal muscles and fascia. Its differential diagnosis will be found discussed under " Chest Pain." Trichinosis is an uncommon disease in Great Britain, but is more common in Germany, and affects the muscles of the chest-wall along with the other muscles of the body. The affec- tion is due to the presence of an embryo parasite in the muscles {see " Trichina Spinalis "). Along with general disturbance and alimentary symp- toms there are intense muscular pain, swelling, tenderness, and oedema. If the respiratory muscles become involved, there is dyspnoea. In atrophic conditions of the muscles of the chest- wall fibrillary contractions may be visible, slight momentary contractions, visible, painless, but perceptible to the patient, and best brought out by pressing the muscle or drawing the finger across the surface. Atrophy of the muscles may arise from various causes. It may be part of a general muscular atrophy in a wasting disease, as in phthisis ; it may result from separation of the muscle from its trophic centre, as in neuritis; or from destruction of the trophic centre in the cord, as in polio- myelitis anterior acuta. The muscles around the shoulder-joint may atrophy in disease of the joint, the atrophy being usually described as reflex. Progressive muscular atrophies do not as a rule affect the muscles of the thorax. Paralytic affections of the muscles of the chest-wall are usually the x-esult of lesions of the central nervous system. Partial paralysis of the intercostal muscles may be noticed in hemiplegia, but the fully developed bilateral paralysis occurs in its typical form in transverse myelitis of the cervical region of the cord. There is then entire paralysis of the inter- costals with loss of movement in the chest, the respiratory movements being entirely abdominal. In diphtheritic paralysis the intercostal muscles and diaphragm may be involved, rendering respiration difficult or impossible. Local para- lysis of individual muscles may occur, for example the pectoralis major, from implication of the nerve trunk to the muscle. Hypertrophy of the muscles of the chest may, up to a certain point, result from over-use, as is seen in the respiratory muscles in emphysema. Cheyne-Stokes' Respiration.— A rhythmical irregularity of the respiration in which there is a period of gradually increas- ing and then gradually decreasing respiratory activity (with an acme or maximum of forcible inspiration and expiration), followed by a period of apnoca or cessation of all such movements. See Respiration {Cheyne-Stokes). See also Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Occlusioji of Cerebral Vessels); Brain, Tumours of (<Sy??if)toms, Localising); Brain, Surgery {Comjyression); Chest, Clinical Investigation of {Inspection, Respiratory Rhythm); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Affections of Myocardium, Symp- 7