CRETINISM 251 liave to cretins at birth is in some ways striking, l)ut it is adult cretins they resemble. Tlie ex- treme shortness of limbs which tiiey exhibit is I irrtiPl"^*- -i Flu. -2. not a characteristic of cretin infants, while their soft natural skin and hair, tlieir normal tempera- ture and mental condition, and the peculiar formation of their hands (.see " Achondroplasia ") enable them to be readily distinguished. " Mongolian" imbeciles resemble cretins in their backwardness, their frequently protruding tongue, scanty dry hair, and dwarfed stature. They differ in being less stunted in growth, in their physiognoni}', in the shape of their hands, and in their general appearance and mental characteristics {gee " Idiocy and Imbecility "). Mdrbid Anatomy.—In the endemic form of the disease, goitre is present in about 75 per cent of the cases, while in the remainder the thyroid is absent. In most cases of sporadic cretinism no trace of a thyroid can be discovered ; in a few the gland is atrophied, and shows cirrhotic changes; rarely there is a cystic goitre. Treatment.—The treatment of cretinism, like that of adult myxcedema, consists in the con- tinued administration of some preparation of thyroid gland by the mouth. The thyroid of the sheep is that generally used, and it may be given raw or in such form as the Thyroideum Siccum or Liq. Thyroidei (B.P.) or various other dry preparations. One of the most reliable of these, and one which seldom disagrees, consists of the dried colloid matter of the thyroid (Hutchison). The dose must vary according to the age, size, and strength of the patient, and according to the intervals at which tlie remedy is administered. The fresh raw thyroid is probably more active and trustworthy than any of its preparations. It may be given to a young child, to begin with, in doses of y\y to of a gland tivice a week; or in double these doses to an older child or adult. After some time one whole lobe may often be taken each time with advantage. It is a curious fact that the imjirovement in cases where thyroid is given twice a week is just as continuous and satisfactory as that seen where the remedy is administered in small doses daily or every few hours. Generally, however, it is more convenient to use one of the manufactured preparations, and to give it daily. In a young infant we may begin with gr. i. of the dried gland, m. ii. of the Liq. Thyroidei, or gr. i of the dried colloid matter. If these doses cause no inipleasant symptoms they may soon be increased. In adolescent or adult patients, from three to five times these doses may be given daily to begin with. During treatment the patient may go about as usual, and no special diet is required. The temperature, weight, growth, and general health must be closely watched. Should the patient become feverish, and show signs of sickness, headache, etc., this indicates rest in bed and a diminution of the dose. Often after some weeks or months an increase of the dose is necessary to maintain the improvement satisfactorily. In treating adolescent cretins it is very im- portant to prevent, if possible, the bending of the legs which is apt to follow their greatly increased activity. For tliis purpose they should be made to lie as much as possible. The Result of Treatment.—When the treat- ment is carefully carried out rapid and con- tinuous improvement results. The temperature rises to and remains at the normal level. The unnatural swelling quickly disappears from the face and other parts of the body. The features lose their unnatural thickness and become more mobile, and the eyea look much brighter. At the same time the tongue ceases to be pro- truded, the voice becomes less guttural, and the child no longer snores at night. The abdomen diminishes greatly in circumference, and if an umbilical hernia is present it disappears. The fatty swellings also vanish at an early stage of the treatment. The skin loses its harsh and dry feeling and becomes soft, and the cheeks show a natural flush. In young patients the hair falls out, at first, in considerable quantities, but is soon replaced by a new crop which grows more rapidly and is softer and often of a different shade of colour. At first there is a considerable loss of weight, with a relaxed condition of the muscles and ligaments, but in the course of six months,