243 CORNU such as that of the hitcral ventricle of the brain; thus, there are the anterior and jjosterior grey cornua of the spinal cord, the comua of the thyroid cartilage and body and of the thymus gland, the cornua of the lateral ventricles of the brain, the cornua of the hyoid lione, and the cornua of the uterus. Cornutina.—An active alkaloid of ergot. See Alkaloids. Corona Radiata. See Physiology, Ner\i)US System {(Jerelirnm, Corona Radiata) ; Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries, Micro- scopic Appeamnceg). Coronal Suture. See Labour, Physio- L0(iY (TliinJ Fill-tor, I'usxiinji'r, Foetal Head). Coronary Arteries. See Heart, Physiology of (Coronary Circulation); Heart, Myocardium, Affections of {Chronic Inter- stitial Myocarditis, Arteriosclerosis of Coronary Arteries); Physiology, Circulation {Flow of Blood through the Heart). Coroner. See Medicine, Forensic {Cer- titicatiiyn of Death, Procedure in Emjland and Wales). Corpora. See Corpus. Corpore Condupiicato. — Birth " with lindy (loulilcd up," occurring very i-arely in cases of transvei'se jjresentation. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies, Spontaneo us Deli very). Corpulence. See Obesity. Corpus.—A l)udy (plural corpora) ; a fre- quently employed term in anatomy, e.g. corpora Arantii, corpus callosum, corpora cavernosa, corpus denticulatum, corpora lutea, corpora oryzoidea (rice-like bodies in joints), corpora quadrigemina, corpus striatum, corpus vitreum, etc. Corpuscle.—A cell, a cell-like body, or an aggregation of cells, e.g. red and white blood corpuscles {see An.emia ; Blood, Cellular Con- stituents) ; colostrum corpuscles {see Colostrum ; Milk) ; corpuscles of Grandry, Krause, and Vater; Malpighian corpuscles; Laveran's cor- puscles (.see Malaria) ; Pacinian corpuscles, etc. Corrigfan's Button. See Cautery {Ai-tuiil). Corrig-an's Pulse. See Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Physical Signs in Different Forms of Heart Disease, Pulse in Aortic Incompetence). Corrig'ens.—The corrigens is the ingredi- ent in a i)rcsrription which cori'ects the action of the basis or principal ingredient. .See Pre- scribing. Corrosive Sublimate. .See Mer CURY {Hydrargyri Perchtoridum) ; Cholera, Epidemic {Diagnosis) ; Toxicology {Corrosive Poisoning, Mercurial Poisoninq). Corsets. .See Pregnancy, Management ; Pelvis, Peiiineum and Pelvic Floor {Prolapsus Uteri, Causes); Puerperium, Pathology {Sore Nipples, Predisposing Causes); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Spinal Caries, Treatment by Plaster Jarl-efs). Cortex.—The outer part of the substance of the lirain, the kidney, the ovary, the supra- renal capsule, etc. (see Brain ; Generation, Female Organs of, etc.); also tlie liark or rind, e.g. cortex sambvci (sambucus bark). Corti, Org^an of. .SVe Physiology, The Senses {Hearing, Internal Ear). Corybantism.—" A state of excitement (probably hysterical) accompanied hy choreic movements, fantastic visual hallucinations, and sleeplessness " (Hack Tuke); the name takes its origin from the corybantes or priests of Cybele, who behaved in a delirious fashion at their celeljrations. Coryza. — Nasal catarrh. .S'ee Nose, Acute Inflammation {Acute Phinitis); Nose, Chronic Inflammation {Coryza. in Children); Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Coryza. Vaso-motoria Periodica, Cory-a (Edematosa); NoSE, Accessory' Sinuses, Inflammation {in Acute Coryza) ; Atrophy, Infantile {Diagnosis, Syphilitic Coryza); Cocaine {Uses, Acute Coryza); Measles {Course) ; Meningitis, Epidbjiic Ceuebro-Spinal {Pespiratory Symptoms). CoSCinium.—False calumba or the dried stem of Cosriiiiiim fenesfratum ; official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia ; it has the same action and uses as ordinary calumba root (i/. v.), and there are three preparations of it, ^'iz. the Infusum Coscinii (dose, i to 1 fl. oz.), the Diquor Coscinii Concentratvs (dose, -I to 1 fl. dr.), and the Tinctura Coscinii (dose, ^ to 1 fl. dr.). Cosmetics.—Operations or medical ap- plications, etc., for the purpose of restoring natural beauty; such a plastic procedure as the repair of a hare-lip is a cosmetic ojjeration, and various powders and ointments (some of which contain lead) are used for " improving" the complexion. .SVe Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Causal Agents, Chemical Compounds) ; Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning). Costa- or CostO-.—Costa- or costo- in conqjound words means relating to a rib, thus costalgia is intercostal neuralgia, costo-coracoid is related to a rib and to the coracoid process of the scapula, etc.