BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHIAL CLANDS 9 (i.) Pressure on. the Trachea and Bronchi.— Some degree of n.arrowing or displacement is not infrequently seen. In other cases intlannna- tory adhesions with the wall of the trachea or l)ronclius develop, and in this way a path is opened up iV)r the infection of the air-passages with tultercle. Perforation of the air-passages is not uncommon. In 800 autopsies on children it was present in 25 cases, i.e. over 3 per cent. The right bronchus is more frequently perforated than the left. This may be due to the shorter length of the right bronchus, and to the larger number of glands on that side. The trachea is less frequently perforated than the bronchi. After perforation the softened contents of the glands may be discliarged, and the perforation closed by cicatrisation, the scar left being small and not tending to cause stenosis of the tube as in cicatrisation of syphilitic lesions. Wlien per- foration occurs there is a liability to the occur- rence of luemorrhage from erosion of vessels, but this is rarely so severe as in the cases where the lung itself is involved. Fatal asphyxia may follow the impaction in the glottis of a large caseous mass in process of discharge. Medias- tinal abscess with surgical emphysema followed perforation in one case of the writer's, reported in the Practitioner, June 1895. (ii.) Pressure on the lung itself results in inflammatory adhesions, and in this way the limg tissue becomes involved, and infiltrated with caseous material which tends to soften and form cavities. These are not uncommon in the lower lol)es of the lung. Malignant disease of the l)ronchial glands usually extends inwards along the lironchi, compressing them, and frecpiently producing a. bronchiectatic condition of the lung. (iii.) The effects of pressure on the blood- vessels show themselves chiefly on the veins of the head and neck, which become over-filled, and these parts become congested and even ocdematous. The smaller veins may have their walls invaded by tuljercle, and thus become the means of producing a generalised tuberculosis. Erosion of branches of the pulmonary artery and vein in the hnig may give rise to profuse and even fatal haemorrhage. The arteries are much less connnonly affected, though cases are on record where a cretaceous gland has ulcerated into the aorta and produced fatal hajmorrhage. (iv.) The effects of pressure on the nerves in the case of caseous bronchial glands are very difficult to distinguish from those due to pres- sure on the air-passages themselves, but there are, at the same time, cases where pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve of one side has produced miilatend paralysis of the vocal cords. The vomiting whicli occurs in association with enlarged glands, as well as in some cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, has been attributed by some to the effects of pressure on the branches of the vagus nerve. ]\[alignant growths in the broncliial glands may, however, produce marked I pressure effects on the nerves (vide " Media- stinum "). (v.) The effects of pressure on the a'sophagus are evidenced by some narrowing of that tube and consequent dysphagia. Adhesions may form between the glands and tlie oesophagus, and if cicatrisation occurs the wall of the oesophagus may be dragged on, and thus a traction diverticulum result. Perforation of the oesophagus by a caseous gland is not of very rare occiu'rence in children; in examining the records of over 3000 cases in children there were thirteen such cases, or about 0"4 per cent. Perforation of the a^sophagus may be accom- panied by pi'ofuse and even fatal hsemorrhage. When rupture into the air-passages occurs at the same time, gangrenous processes are liable to be set u]) in the lungs or mediastinum. (vi.) Pressiu'e on the 2^Bricardiivm may cause adhesion between the pericardial sac and the glands, and perforation into the pericardial sac may follow, and then a tuberculous or suppura- tive pericarditis may be set up. Perforation of the pericardium takes place, most commonly in tlie upper part of the serous sac. in addition to these events we may find a comliination of two or more of the above- mentioned conditions occiu-ring simultaneousl}'. The writer has seen a case where caseous bronchial glands had perforated the oesophagus, right bronchus, right lung, and the pericardium. Symptoms and Physical Signs. — Enlarged bronchial glands niay exist without giving rise to any symptoms, and to physical signs of very little diagnostic value. The chief symptoms jjroduced by them are cough, vomiting, dyspuwa, dysphagia, and jiain. Coiu/h.—This is paroxysmal in character, and closely resembles that of whooping-cough. As a rule it is unaccompanied by any expectoration or whoop, but when severe may be accompanied by vomiting. When the trachea (jr bronchi are being in- vaded by caseous glands there is usually some tracheitis and bronchitis, and this is not in- frequently accompanied by htemoptysis varying in amount from a mere streak of l)lood to profuse or even fatal hieniorrhage. In some cases the cough has a distinctly clanging character. The voice, as a rule, is not altered, but sometimes the cry has a distinct stridor. Tlie paroxysms of coughing are some- times so severe that after them the ciiild will fall back quite exhausted. Epistaxis may acconqjany a tit of coughing, but nuich less commonly than cyanosis. When a caseous or cretaceoiis mass ulcerates through the air- passages, in addition to the luemoptysis men- tioned, the caseous or cretaceous mass may be expectorated. Vomiting is present in some cases, and gener- ally accompanies severe attacks of coughing.