DIET 3G3 by diabetics than any other form oF carl)0- hydrate. The nuts form a class by themselves, and are characterised by great richness in fat, as the preceding table shows. Their richness in fat and cellulose, and the compactness of their structure, render them difficult of digestion. Being com- paratively poor in carbohydrates they are largely used in the manufacture of diabetic foods. 6. The fungi, lichens, and algce are a small and unim2:)ortant group of vegetable foods. The first-mentioned are represented by the mush- room and truffle, Avhich have the following composition :— Miislirooiii. Trullli'. AVater . . . .93-7 73-0 Proteid . . . . 2-2 6-1 Fat 0-3 0-6 Carbolivdratc . . . 1-2 10-2 Cellulose . . . . 1-1 6-4 Asli 0-3 2-0 These are very indigestible in the stomach— so much so, indeed, that the symptoms of indigestion which they are apt to produce have often ])een mistaken for poisoning. They are also very imperfectly absorbed, and cannot i-ank as foods of any value. The algse are repre- sented by Irish, and the lichens by Iceland moss. These have the following constituents (Church) :— IiiHli JIoss. Ici'laiiil Itoss. Water . . . . IS'S 10-0 . Protoid .... 9-4 87 Mucilage . . .55-4 70-0 Cellulose . . . 2-2 3-5 Ash . . . .14-2 1\5 The " mucilage " consists mainly of lichenin —a carbohydrate-containing material of doubt- ful nature. It certainly yields a reducing sugar on hydrolysis. The nutritive value of these substances is very low, for a teacupful of good Irish moss jelly contains only about a shilling's weight of solid matter. Decoctions of them make pleasant demulcent drinks, but that is the limit of their usefulness in the sick- room. Mineral Constituents of Food.—About 5 per cent of the body weight consists of ash. Mineral matters are therefore to be regarded as tissue-builders, and as such are essential to life, and as a matter of fact it is found that death ensues in a few weeks if no inorganic materials are supplied in the food. The chief mineral matters required are sodium and potassium, calcium and magnesium, iron, pliosphorus, sul- phur, chlorine, and traces of sucli substances as manganese and silica. It is impossible to sa}' exactly liow nuicli of any or all of these is required daily, for the reason, amongst others, that several of the mineral ingredients of the body are excreted by the large intestine, and one can, therefore, never distinguish those inorganic constituents of the faeces which have simply not been absorbed i from those which have been absorl)ed and again excreted. An ordinary mixed diet, however, contains about 20 grammes of mineral matter, and that may safely bo regarded as more than a sufficient supply. Further, it may be asserted that we know of no disease which is produced l)y an excess of mineral ingredients in the food, and of almost none, with the exception, perhaps, of scurvy, which is due to their deficiency. Potassium is most al)undantly represented in vegetable, and sudimn in animal foods. The foods richest in lime are milk, eggs, cereals, and a few vegetables, such as radishes, asparagus, and spinach. Meat, fruits, and potatoes are poor in lime. It has, therefore, been recom- mended that one should forbid the former class and order the latter to patients who are sufiFer- ing from atheroma. The utility of such a pro- ceeding is, however, very doubtful. About 10 milligrammes of ii'on are contained in an ordinary mixed diet (Stockman). The foods richest in that metal are yolk of egg, potatoes, bread, oatmeal, and rice. Milk is one of the poorest of all foods in iron, but five pints of it contain the requisite 10 milligrammes. The comparatively small amount of iron con- tained in ordinary food renders it impossible to look to dietetic tneans alone as affording a sufficient method of treating anremias. Phosphorus seems to be of special value in aiding the formation of new tissues. It is prob- able, how'ever, that if it is to be available for that purpose it must be supplied in organic combination, and not simply as inorganic phosphates. The yolk of egg and tissues rich in nucleins, e.g. the roe of fish, sweetbreads, etc., are the richest sources of organic phos- phorus. The importance of phosphorus as a brain food is probably overrated. Sulphur is almost wholly taken into tlie body in the form of jDroteids, little or no in- organic sulphur being contained in an ordinary diet. Cldorinc is largely consumed in the form of common salt, of which about 10 grammes are usually added to tlie diet in addition to that which ordinary foods already contain. That the actual addition of salt to the diet is un- necessary is proved by the experience of those who live without it altogether. On the other hand, the evil effects attributed to its use are entirely imaginary. It is an undoubted aid to digestion, and, provided enough water be sup- plied as well, tends to limit rather than increase tissue waste. BEVER.4GE8 The use of alcoholic beverages has been discussed under "Alcohol.'' We may therefore confine ourselves here to the consideration of water and the alkaloidal beverages (tea, coftee, and cocoa). Water makes up about two-thirds of the