211 CONJUNCTIVA, DISEASES OF are several atypical forms of phlyctenular disease that need not be described more particularly. Treatment.—Improve the general health by good food, fresh air, cleanliness, outdoor exer- cise, plenty of sleep, and (whenever possible) by residence at the seaside or in the country. Cod- liver oil, best given as an emulsion, is of special value, and tonics, as Parrish's syrup and the syrup of ferrous iodide, are useful. The use of these remedies should generally be preceded by a short course of mercury, best given as : Hydr. c. cret., gr. 1 ; pulv. rhei, gr. 1 ; sodii bicarb., gr. 2; one powder every night for a week. Locally, calomel ^ may be sprinkled over the injected parts once or twice a day, or the same remedy may be given for home use as an oint- ment containing 20 grains to the ounce. Yellow ointment (gr. 10 to tiie ounce) suits many cases, and may be used for months together where there is a marked tendency to relapse. Should photophobia be i^romiuent, atropine or cocaine may be combined with the mercurial preparation. Spring Catarrh.—This rare form of disease is important from its liability to be confused with trachoma. Its signs and symptoms, how- ever, are quite characteristic. It is marked by firm greyish elevations in the limbus, as well as by a pale condition of the palpebral conjunctiva, which is so closely beset by enlarged papilhe as almost to recall the appearance of a cobble pavement. The palpebral conjunctiva looks as though it were coated with a thin layer of milk (Vetsch). The patient complains of great irri- tability of the eyes of a distinctly seasonable type. The irritation begins in spring or early summer, and, after subsiding more or less com- pletely during the winter, returns during the following spring. Spring catarrh usually affects both eyes, although not necessarily to the same degree. It is met with mainly in young persons, and may persist for many years. Nothing- definite is known as to its pathology. Treatment.—Lotions containing boric acid, sulphate of zinc, or antipyrine are useful. Oint- ments of salicylic acid or corrosive sublimate (gr. 1-2 to the ounce of lanoline-vaseline), or of ammoniated mercury (2 per cent), may be em- ployed. In some cases douches of hot water appear to give temporary relief. If photophobia exist, the eyes should be protected with goggles. Surgical measures have been recommended, but are not in favour with most ophthalmic surgeons. Arsenic may be given internally. For my own part, I have seen more benefit from change of air than from any other means, local or general. EXANTIIEMATOUS CONJUNCTIVITIS. By this name we mean any inflammation of the con- junctiva associated with or closely following an exanthem. Measles often gives rise to such a ' Preparations coutainiug iodine must be avoided if calo- mel is being ai)plied, because there is a danger of damaging the conjunctiva if the two come into combiuation under the form of mercuric iodide. condition, which is characterised by its tendency to relapse and its rebelliousness to treatment. It takes the form, as a rule, of a catarrhal ophthalmia, with a coincident eruption of phlyc- tenulse and blepharitis; photophobia is a common feature. In addition to this, many outbreaks of measles are ushered in by con- junctival inflammation. During an attack of smallpox, pustules may develop upon the con- junctiva or cornea, and in the latter position may entail serious results. I have occasionally observed small pustules upon the conjunctiva and intermai'ginal space during varicella. Apart from acute exanthemata, certain chronic inflam- mations of the skin may be complicated with conjunctivitis. In acne rosacea a small nodule may form in the limbus, and be accompanied by localised redness and by photophobia. After persisting for several days the inflanmiatory signs disappear, but a clear, bleb-like spot may remain indefinitely. The conjunctiva may be accidentally inoculated with the vaccine virus, although such a result is commoner upon the edge of the eyelids. In a case reported by Cargill, firm, pale, flat swellings in the ocular conjunctiva were found with a persistent form of urticaria ; they were noticed to vary in size from day to day. Characteristic conjunctival changes are present in leprosy. Lastly, eczema of the skin or scalp often coexists with phlyc- tenular affections of the conjunctiva, altogether apart from the pus inoculations mentioned upon an earlier page. Tuberculosis Tubercle of the conjunctiva is met with clini- cally under several distinct forms. It is often primary—not associated, as far as one can tell, with tubercle in other parts of the body,—and in that event is almost certainly the outcome of an external infection. This rare affection runs a lingering course, is usually limited to a single eye, and seldom attacks subjects over twenty years of age. It may or may not coexist with lupus of the face or elsewhere. The form most commonly recognised is characterised by the development in the conjunctiva of small yellow- ish nodules, or of bleeding cockcomb-like granu- lations, which sooner or later ulcerate. The nodules may be found in any part of the con- junctiva, but the flattened granulations are often confined to that of the lids. The resulting ulcers have ragged edges, grey nodular bottoms, and are often more or less hidden by pus or debris. The eyelids become swollen, heavy, and imsightly; the conjunctiva throws off a muco- purulent secretion ; pain or discomfort appears to be more often absent than present. In advanced cases the cornea may become involved. Erosion of the eyelids may occur, and adhesions between the ocular and the palpebral conjunctiva have been seen. The neighbouring lymphatic glands are practically always enlarged and