EAR: ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE MIDDLE EAR 4K9 pus can be found. The external incision, often spoken of as Wilde's incision, often gives great relief to the patient, but it should be looked upon as only the first step in the operation, which should include the opening of the mastoid process also. If this is not done we are ver}^ likely to find that a permanent sinus results, and that caries of bone will follow, necessitating a more extensive operation under much less favourable circumstances. The diagnosis and treatment of the various complications which have been mentioned as occasionally occurring in acute middle ear in- flammation do not require consideration here, as they are much more frequently the accom- paniment of chronic suppuration, to which the reader is referred. Middle Ear: Chronic Suppuration and Sequelae. vEtiology 489 ,, IX Infants .... 489 Bacteriology . . . . .490 Pathology . . . . . .490 Sy'mptomatology . . . . .491 Prognosis 492 Treatment ...... 493 Complications— (1) Granulations . . . .493 (2) Polypi 493 (3) Caries and Necrosis . . . 494 Suppuration of the Recessus Epitym- PANICUS—• ^Etiology 495 Treatment ...... 495 Post-Suppurative Sequel.e— (1) Dry Perforation of Memhrana Tympani . . . . .496 (2) Adhesions ..... 496 (3) Calcareous Deposits . . . 497 (4) Hyperostosis ..... 497 (5) Facial Paralysis .... 497 Diseases of the Mastoid Process— Anatomy ..... 497 Jfastoid Periostitis . . . .497 Suppiurative End.o7nastoiditis — (1) Acute 498 (2) Chronic 499 (3) Post-Influenzal Suppurative Mas- toiditis .... 502 (4) Bezold's Mastoiditis . . . 502 Cholesteatoma ..... 502 Tuberculous Disease . . . .502 Intracranial Complications following Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media . 504 Extra-Dural Abscess . . . .504 Pachymeninffitis ..... 505 Supjmrative Pia-Arachnitis . . . 505 TemporO'Sphenoidal Abscess . . . 505 Cerebellar Abscess .... 506 Thrombosis of Lateral Sinus . . 506 Septic Encephalitis .... 508 Chronic Suppurative Inflammation of the Middle Ear (Otitis Media Purulenta Chronica). Syn.—Pyogenic Otitis Media Chronic suppurative inflammation of the middle ear is in almost all cases the result of a previous acute inflammatory attack. The same tetiological factors which play a promi- nent part in the production of acute sup- purative middle ear catarrh may consequently be ranked as active causes in the production of the chronic type of the disease. Of the more important affections which fall inider the former heading may be cited the various exanthemata, measles, scarlet fever, scarlatinal diphtheria, small - pox, and such general diseases as diphtheria, mumps, pneu- monia, influenza (la grippe), pulmonary phthisis, typhoid fever, malaria, bronchitis, Bright's disease, cerebro-spinal meningitis, etc. The extension of catarrhal affections from the nose, the pharynx, and the naso-pharynx plays also a prominent part in the production of acute middle ear suppuration, and hence in many cases in chronic suppurative attacks also. Many post - nasal growths, especially post- nasal adenoid vegetations, produce such a degree of Eustachian obstruction as to interfere with the normal physiological action of the tube, and are responsilile in large numbers of cases not only in causing acute attacks, but also in keeping up such a degree of irritation as to prevent resolution, and so in promoting chronicity. Causes acting upon the membrana tympani from without, e.g. draughts, the entrance of water (especially sea-water) into the external auditory meatus, or into the middle ear from a too forcible employment of the nasal douche, injuries (blows, concussions, etc.), the extension of a chronic inflammation of the external auditory meatus (Walb), by at times producing acute inflammatory attacks, are also contributory elements in the production of chronic suppura- tive catarrh. In tuberculous disease of the middle ear, the process is regarded by most authorities as assuming a chronic type ab initio, that is to say, sthenic sjanptoms are absent, and perfora- tion of the membrana tympani takes place pain- lessly, a discharge from the cavity of the middle ear being probably the first indication of the jsresence of the morbid process. It is doubtful if, tuberculoiis lesions excepted, the chronic t^'pe of the disease is ever observed without there having been at some period an acute, or at least a semi-acute stage present. In diabetic patients this preliminary acute stage may be of very short duration, the un- favourable effects of diabetes upon the tissues of the middle ear being well recognised. ^Etiology in Infants. — Suppurative middle