339 DIAPHORETICS ;i, certain extuiit vicarious. Hence the value of diaphoretic measures in acute or chronic nepli- ritis with suppression of urine or indications of the sujjervention of uraemic symptoms. Here the use of the hot mustard pack or the hot vapour baths, with sucli adjuvant measures as have been already mentioned, may be sufficient, but in many cases the powerful aid of pilocai-pin is called for and proves of the greatest value. It is best administered in small doses hypo- dermically, the patient meanwhile being warmly covered in Ijcd. If there is any weakness of the heart, stimulants (sal volatile) should at the same time be administered internally. Diaphrag^m. PilYSlOLOGICAl, ..... 339 (Conditions in which invoiaed . . 339 1'aralysis ...... 339 fciPASM 340 See AsPiiY.xiA {Artificial RespivKtion, Depres- sion of Diaphraipn); Asthma (>S//mj:)toms, Nature and £tirjlo<jij, SjMsm of the Diaphragm); Chest, INcJURIES of ( Wounds, Perforation of the Dia- phragm) ; Hiccough ; Hydatid Disease {Echino- eoccus of Liver, Displacement of Diap)hragm) \ Lung, Tuberculosis (Diagnosis, Rontgen-Ray Illumination, Diaphragmatic Movement); Muscles, Diseases of (Trichiniasis, Imjjeded. Action of. Diaphragm); Post-Mortem Methods {Examijiation of Thorax and Abdomen); Spasm (Ificcough); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases {Snh-plirenic Abscess). The Diaphragm, or Midrift', the partition between the thorax and the abdomen, is a double muscle, the two sides of which, though capable of inde- pendent contraction, act in health habitually together. Its muscular fibres arise from the lumbar vertebrte by means of the crura, from the arched ligaments, from the cartilages of the si.x lower ribs, and from the ]iosterior surface of the ensiform cartilage. Arching upwards and inwards these fibres converge on the tendon in the centre. Over the lower surface of the diaphragm is spread the peritoneum ; over its upper the pleura; and pericardium. It is perforated in various places, and this allows of the passage through it of the aorta-, the oesophagus, the vena cava, the splanchnics, the sympathetic, etc. The diaphragm is supplied mainly by the phrenic nerves (each nerve conti'olling one lateral half), and perhaps to some small extent Viy the lower intercostal nerves. During inspiration the two lateral halves of the diapin'agm contract sinuiltaneously, thus diminishing the curve of the arch and increasing the capacity of the thorax. The t3'pe of breath- ing in women being chiefly costal, the diaphragm is not so much used by them, and its excursions are not so well marked as is the case in men. Apart from the results of disease of the phrenic nerves, the height at which the dia- phragm stands is dependent on the relation of the pressure in the thorax to that in the abdomen. When this relation is disturbed the diaphragm is pressed upwards or downwards according as the balance of pressure is greater on the abdominal or on the ttioracic side. But as this displacement is of interest, not from the point of view of the diaphragm, but from that of the viscera which are affected, the subject will not be considered here. Nor shall we do more than mention that variety of pleurisy in which the pleural covering of the diaphragm is affected. The same remark applies to periton- itis in which the peritoneal covering of the diaphragm is implicated. In botii cases the muscular fibres may show some degree of infiammation. No tumours originate primarily in the dia- phragm, but that structure is often the seat of secondary growths. Tuberculous and malignant processes are apt to pass from the peritoneum through the diaphragm to the pleura, more usually, I think, on the right side of the body tiian on the left. The muscular fibre of the diaphragm is liable, like other striped muscle, to suffer from fatty infiltration and from fatty and hyaline degeneration, and most probably rheumatism may also attack it. Gastric ulcers, in which the peritoneal surface of the stomach, having become inflamed, has attached itself firmly to the serous surface of the diaphragm, may make their way through that structure. The main interest of the diaphragm from a medical point of view lies in the fact that it is an index to the state of the phrenic nerve and its centre. Under one set of conditions you may have paralysis, under another spasm. Paralysis.—Apart from that paralysis some- times seen in hysteria, and which is usually of little moment, the muscle may be paralysed by any lesion of the phrenic nerve or of its centre. Whether the paralysis affects one or both sides of the diaphragm depends, of course, on whether one or both phrenic nerves are implicated. Traumatic lesions of the upper cervical vertebroe, tuberculous processes there, tumours, inflamma- tory or other swelling of the meninges, may so interfere with the phrenic nerves as to stop the conduction of motor impulses and cause paralysis of the diaphragm. In their long and deep course through the neck these nerves, though protected from ordinary injiuy, may be divided in cases of wounding, or seriously compressed by tumours. Even in their course through the thorax the phrenic nerves sometimes suffer from the pressure of mediastinal tumours or are involved in inflammatory processes. But, more commonly, paralysis of the dia- phi-agra is due to some affection of the whole neuron. Any of the poisons, known and un- known, which pi-oduce neuritis may affect the phrenic nerve. Paralysis of the diaphragm is