CHEEK, FISSURE OF 82 the lateral portion of the face, consisting in a cleft aflecting the soft parts, or more rarely invading also the bones, arising during the embryonic period of antenatal life, and caused by delayed or irregular closure of the fissures between the fronto-nasal and superior maxillary and the mandibular processes. Varieties.—From the anatomical as well as from the pathological and embryological stand- points fissures of the cheek may be divided into three kinds: (1) fronto-maxillary; (2) com- missural ; and (3) anomalous. The fronto-maxillary, ascending, oblique, or naso-genal fissure begins at a point in the upper lip just outside the common site of hai'e-lip, and passes upwards outside the nostril towards the inner angle of the orbit; it may there produce coloboma of the lower eyelid, and it may, in exceptional cases, extend to the outer angle of the orbit and even on to the temple. It is unilateral or bilateral, simple or complicated ; it varies in width from a narrow cleft to a gap- ing opening ; it usually has a red floor and red irregular margins, but it may at one or more places present a cicatricial appearance (ante- natal partial cure?). When the underlying skeleton is also fissured the line of cleavage does not exactly follow the suture uniting the upper maxilla to the bones of the nose; gencjr- ally the intermaxilla carrying the incisor teeth is internal to the fissure, but occasionally a precanine incisor is found external to it, a peculiarity not yet satisfactorily explained. The complications are the presence of other facial fissures (hare-lip, commissural cleft of the same or of the opposite side), deformity of the eye or eyelids, cerebral hernias and hydro- cephalus, and the more distinctly teratological conditions of anencephaly, exencephaly, and adhesion of the placenta or amniotic membrane to the face or brain. It is very rare in animals (mammals). The commissural, intermaxillary, or trans- verse fissure of the cheek (macrostoma, hiatus buccalis congenitus, commissural hare - lip, or coloboma of the cheek) differs in direction from the fronto-maxillary variety ; it passes from the buccal commissure backwards, with an inclina- tion upwards towards the masseter, and even when it proceeds further it rarely invades either the orbit or the external ear. It may be uni- lateral or bilateral, simple or complicated, and of great or little extent. When it is bilateral and extensive the mouth is converted into an opening reaching from one ear to the other. In the less marked degree the defect lays bare one or two molar teeth at the angle of the mouth. The opening of Stenon's duct can be seen in the upper margin of the cleft. The zygomatic arch may be cleft as well as the soft parts, and the upper maxilla may be small or deformed. Although it may occur as a solitary malformation, it is more common to find it associated with such anomalies as pre-auricular appendages (in eighty-seven cases of pre-auricu- lar appendage collected from literature sixteen showed also commissural fissure, v. Teratologia, ii. p. 31 ; 1895), microcephaly, or hemi- atrophy of face or cranium, fronto - maxillary fissure, deformity of the external ear, cleft palate, macroglossa, and exencephaly. In animals (lamb, calf, pig) it is, on account of its extent, a grave condition, for the mouth may communicate with the tympanic cavity ; it is called schistocephalus megalostomus. Anomalous fissures of the cheek which do not follow the lines of the natural embryonic clefts, but which pass, for instance, from the angle of the mouth to the inner end of the orbit, or obliquely across the face from one side to the other, have been put on record. It is probable that they are usually the result of an amniotic adhesion, the other two varieties being due to simple pressure from an imperfectly developed amnion. Symptomatology.—In addition to the obvious deformity caused by fissures of the cheek the symptoms of the commissural variety in particu- lar consist in imperfect closure of the mouth, dribbling of saliva, and difficulty in mastication and articulation. Infants exhibiting this de- formity are often small, weakly, and poorly nourished, and may be defective in intelligence. Treatment has almost invariably consisted in the closure of the fissure by paring and uniting by sutures its margin. Generally the opera- tion has been quite successful. Cheese. -See Diet {Milk and its Pro- ducts) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Milk, Cheese); Toxicology {Animal Foods, Cheese); Tuberculosis {Tubercle and Butter Bacillus). CheilO->—In compound words cheilo- (Gr. XetAos, the lip) means relating to the lips; among such words may be named cheiloplasty (restoration of the lips to their normal form and continuity by operation, vide Palate, Hare- Lip), cheiloschisis (hare - lip), cheilocarcinoma (cancer of the lip), etc. Cheir-.—In compound words cheir- (Gr. X^^P, the hand) means relating to the hand; instances are found in cheiromegaly (giant growth of the hand), cheiragra (gout in the hand), cheirospasmus (cramp in the hand), cheir- urgia (surgery), etc. Cheiropompholyx. See Eczema {Regional Forms, Hands); Skin, Bacteriology OF {Cheiropompholyx or Dysidr-osis). Cheloid. See Cicatrices {Keloid or Cheloid); Sclerodermia {Circumscribed). ChelOniSOmuS.—A teratological state in which there is eventration of the abdomen and thorax and excessive retroflexion of the body; turtle-like monstrosity (hence the name