D^.MONOMANIA 270 D£enrionorna,nia,.—A form of insanit}' in which the patient (usually suffering from religious melancholia) imagines himself the subject of possession by devils ; demonomania. Dairies. See Milk {Industrial, Hygiene of the Dairy); Cow-Shbds.—Both in English and Scots sanitary law dairy means " any farm, farm- house, cow-shed, milk-store, milk-shop, or other place from which milk is supplied, or in which milk is kept for purposes of sale." Daiby's Carminative.—A soothing preparation containing about two and a half minims of laudanum to the fluid ounce. Hee Toxicology {Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons, Opium and Morphine). Daltonism.—Colour-bHndness, so called because John Dalton, chemist, studied and carefully described the condition of red-blindness or anerythropsia in himself. See Colour Vision {Colour-Blindness or Achromatopsia). Damiana.—A Mexican plant {Turnera aphrodisiaca [?] or Bigelovia veneta [?]), regarded as possessing aphrodisiac qualities and as being a nerve tonic. Damp. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of [General Etiology, Cold and Damp)). Dance, St. Vitus'S. See Chorea. Dancer's Cramp.—Cramp of the calf muscles, especially occurring in ballet-dancers. Dancings Mania.—A form of epidemic mania (met with in the Middle Ages, often in association with religious excitement) in which dancing and gesticulating were prominent symptoms; St. Guy's or St. John's dance; pandemic chorea; choromania. Dandelion. See Taraxaci Radix. Dandriff or Dandruff.—Scurf or dead scarf-skin still adhering to the skin or to hair on the skin ; pityriasis. See Eczema {My- cosiform. Pityriasis Capitis). Dandy Fever. See Dengue. Daneverd. See Balneology {Siveden). Dangferous Trades. See Anthrax ; Toxicology ; Trades, Dangerous. Daphne Mezereum.—The root of this plant yields the mezereum of the United States Pharmacopoeia; cases of poisoning from eating the berries have occurred; the bark is official in the British Pharmacopoeia, and con- tains daphnin, a crystalline glucoside (Cj^Hj^Og), which boiled with dilute acids gives daphnetin (CgHgO^) and glucose. See Mezerei Cortex. Darier's Disease. — A rare chronic disease of the skin, characterised by the occur- rence of papules in regions of the body well supplied with sebaceous and sudoriparous glands [e.g. the axillte and the groins), by the later formation of greyish-brown or black crusts, and by the still later development of inflammatory nodules and ulcers; the disease shows some re- semblance to lichen planus ; it is practically an incurable malady, but good can be done by the use of antiseptic remedies and thorough cleans- ing, which may prevent infection of the affected areas of skin with pyogenic bacteria. Darjiling'. See Balneology {India, Sulphur ]Vaters). DartOS.—The layer of subcutaneous tissue in the scrotum containing much unstriped muscle, and forming a sac for each testicle; it contracts under the influence of cold or of iri-itation. The name is derived from the Gr. Saprds, excoriated. Dartre.—A generic name applied some- what vaguely to various skin diseases, including especially herpes, pityriasis, and lichen, which were supposed to be all due to the same consti- tutional state. Darwinianism or Darwinism. — Charles Darwin's theory of the origin of species, etc., in which evolution by natui'al selection and survival of the fittest is the central assumption. See Heredity. Darwin's tubercle is the projection on the inturned margin of the helix of the external ear in the human subject supposed to represent the tip of the ear of apes and other lower mammals. DasyteS.— Hairiness (from Gr. Sao-i'?, haii-y), especially general congenital hairiness (hypertrichosis congenita); individuals so affected have been termed "hairy men," "missing links" of the Darwinian theory, " Esaus,"and "homines pilosi " ; pilosism, polytrichia, hirsuties. Date of Delivery. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Mature Foetus); Preg- nancy, Diagnosis {Probable Date of Confine- ment). Daturae Folia.—The dried leaves of Datura fastuosa and Datura Metel; they have a bitter taste, a peculiar odour, and the same action as stramonium leaves {(/-v.); they are official in India and the Colonies, being described in the Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Pharmacopceia (1898). Daturae Semina.—The dried seeds of Datura fastuosa; they are described in the Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Pharmacopoeia (1898); they have the same action as stramonium seeds {q.v.); and there is a Tinctura Daturce Seminum, given in doses of 5 to 15 m.