31S DESQ,UAMATIO^■ Desquamation.—The separation or exfoliation of the epidermis, either in mem- branous pieces (desquamatio 'memhranacea) or in small particles {desquamatio furfuracea), or as a complete portion or sheath {de&quamaUo siliquosa). See Measles {Symptoms, Eruption) ; New-Born Infant ' {Dermatitis Exfoliativa) ; Rubella, Roserash {Symptomatology, Desquama- tion) ; Scarlet Fever {Symptomatology, De- sq'iiamation); Smallpox {Symptoms, Eruption); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Seqxiela;, Cutaneous System). Desquamative Nephritis.—Renal inflammation in which the epithelium of the tubules of the kidneys is extensively shed. Destructor.—An apparatus for the efficient and cleanly disposal of refuse by means of heat; either the slow combustion furnace {e.g. Fryer's) or the high temperature or forced draught furnace {e.g. Horsfall's) may be iised ; there may be also a fume cremator for consum- ing the fumes ; from the resulting clinker con- crete may be obtained for making roads, mortar, etc. Detachment of Placenta. See Labour, Stages and Duration {Third Stage, Phenomena). Detachment of Retina. See Retina and Optic Nerve {Retina, Detachment). DetentiO.—Catalepsy. 5 Deterg'entS. —Cleansing substances, especially such as remove dirt, discharge, [and desquamated epidermic scales from the skin or from foul ulcers by their external use ; examples are found in soap and warm water, alcohol, vinegar, charcoal, pumice-stone, and sand. Determination.—The flow of the blood (and of other bodily fluids) to a special part, leading to congestion of that part; active hypersemia. Determination of Sex.—The arti- ficial fixing of the sex of the offspring before birth is still an unsolved problem ; it does not seem that it can be done by altering the food given to the female parent during pregnancy ; the general tendency of modern investigations is to show that the sex is determined at an •earlier date in antenatal life than was supposed, either at the moment when the spermatozoon penetrates the ovum or in the ovum itself before impregnation, perhaps at the moment of matura- tion ; the medical man cannot yet act as " the arbiter of the sex of the infants yet unborn." Detrusor.—Literally a thruster-out or propeller (from Latin detrudo, I thrust away); is the name given to the muscular coat of the bladder which by its contraction expels the urine {detrusor urince). DeuterO-.—In compound words deiUero- (from Greek Sei're/Dos, second) signifies secondary. Deutero - albumose. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Detection of Al- humoses in Urine). Deuteropathic Insanity. — in- sanity caused by morbid states of other organs than the brain ; secondary insanity. Deutero - proteoses.—Proteids with a less complex molecule than the albumins and globulins have, and more nearly allied to the peptones than to the original proteids. (The proto-proteoses, on the other hand, are more nearly allied to the original proteids than to the peptones.) See Physiology, Protoplasm {Classi- fimtion of the Proteids); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Stomach, Digestion, Proteolytic Period) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Intestinal Digestion, Pancreatic). Deutoplasm or Deuteroplasm. —The food yolk of the ovum, i.e. of the mero- blastic ovum; the deutoplasm of the hen's egg consists of white and yellow yolk; the nutritive yolk in contradistinction to the protoplasm or formative yolk. Development.—The series of changes by which an apparently simple structure {e.g. the ovum) becomes a highly complex organism {e.g. the embryo and foetus); also the gradual elaboration of structure and function believed to occur in and to account for the evolution of races of animals and plants; " creation belongs to eternity and development to time " (Stewart and Tait). See Children, Development op ; Embryology ; Fostus and Ovum, Development OP; Generation, Female Organs of {Arrested Developments); Heart, Physiology of'.{Embryo- logy) ; Palate {Congenital Malformations of Mouth, Development); Physiology, Reproduc- tion {Development); Pregnancy, Physiology ; Pregnancy, Multiple {Tivins); Scrotum and Testicle {Abnormalities) ; Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Skin, Nails); Teeth {Development); Teratology ; Uterus, Malformations of {De- velopment of Geiiito-Urinary Organs). Developmental Idiocy.—Congeni- tal cases of mental deficiency in which the signs of the morbid state are late in appearing. See Mental Deficiency {Developmental). Developmental Insanities.— Under this name have been grouped the de- liriums and night terrors of children and the various insanities of puberty and adolescence. See Adolescent Insanity ; Night Terrors ; etc. Developmental Method.— The spinal cord at birth has tracts (ingoing) which contain medullated nerve fibres, while others