CONTUSIONS 221 of blood. — The extent and character of the effusion in contusions of the second degree depend upon the looseness or density of the connective tissue of the injured part, the size and nature of the damaged vessels, and the degree of force employed to produce it. It may be that all the tissues are infiltrated with blood from a number of torn veins and small arteries; or that the blood from a rup- tured artery or large vein collects in a single space, constituting a hcematoma. In either case the bleeding is soon arrested by the gradually increasing pressure in the effusion, and by the coagulation of blood in the torn vessels. Tlie extravasated blood tends slowly to diffuse itself along the lines of least resistance ■—under fasci;e, between muscles, into vascular sheaths or connective-tissue spaces—so that it may eventually reach the surface at some dis- tance from the seat of injury. This fact is sometimes of importance in the diagnosis of injuries, especially in certain fractures of the base of the skull, where the ecchymosis appears after some days under the conjunctiva, or behind the mastoid process The majority of contusions tend to spon- taneous cure. The fluid part of the extravasated blood is reabsorbed by the lymphatics. Some of the red corpuscles regain the general circula- tion directly or by the lymph stream. The solid clot disintegrates. Hfcmatoidin crystals are precipitated in the tissues, giving them a bluish, green, or yellow colour; and crystals of cholesterin may form from destruction of the fatty elements of the clot. The remaining debris is carried off by the lymphatics, and may cause temporary enlargement and pigmentation of the adjacent lymphatic glands. The destroyed tissue is I'eplaced by a cicatrix formed by a process analogous to that known as healing by the first intention. It is not uncommon for proliferation of the connective tissue surrounding an effusion of blood to take place to such an extent that an elementary membranous capsule is formed. In this way a hofmorrhagic cyst is developed, the contents of wiiich may in course of time become absorbed, or, after drying up, undergo calcareous degeneration. Certain contusions result in the outpouring of a large quantity of serous fluid instead of blood, most probably from tearing of large lymphatic vessels. This is commonest after obliquely directed blows or crushes, acting chiefly on the superficial structures, especially when a tense fascia underlies the skin. Such effusions are slowly reabsorbed, sometimes remaining un- changed for months. In a few rare cases, especially where the con- tused tissue contains much fat, or where a fracture coexists, localised collections of an oily fluid form, and are slowly reabsorbed. Third degree or contusions with complete dis- integration of tissue.—When the vulnerant force is extreme, and the resistance of the contused tissues slight, their structure may be completely destroyed. Muscular tissue, blood-vessels, nerves, and connective tissues are reduced to a pulp,, the circulation through the part is suspended, and the vitality so depressed that necrosis takes place. The overlying skin l)ecomes cold, livid, and dark-coloured, and blisters containing serous or bloody fluid may form on the svirface. If septic infection be prevented dry gangrene takes place; but if bacteria gain access suppuration and moist gangrene ensue. Clinical Features.-—The chief local pheno- mena of contusions are discoloration and swelling. When the condition is of the first degree minute punctate haiiiiorrhages are seen scattered through the superficial layers of the skin over the affected area. These are separate from one another, of a light colour, and with slight oedematous swelling around them. Contusions of the secoiul degree are those most commonly met with. The eilused blood occurs in patches varying in size and depth with the degree of force which produced them, and in shape with the instrument employed. Where the skin is naturally thin or pigmented, as over the inner aspects of the arm, in the eyelids, scrotum, and perineum, the discoloration tends to be darker than elsewhere. W'hen the extra- vasated blood is only separated from the oxygen of the air by a thin layer of epidermis or by mucous membrane, it retains its bright arterial colour. This is often well illustrated in cases of black-eye, where the blood effused under the conjunctiva is bright red, while that in the eyelids is almost black. The discoloration may take some days to appear on the surface if the primary effusion has been deep-seated among the muscles and under strong fascial bands ; and in these circum- stances it may appear some distance from the seat of injury. The presence of blood extra- vasated deeply in the tissues can, however, often be detected by the firm, resistant, doughy swell- ing which exists. On deep palpation a peculiar sensation, closely simulating the crepitus of fractures, is sometimes transmitted to the fingers, and is liable to lead to errors in diagnosis. The changes which take place in the effused blood lead to characteristic alterations in the colour of the contused part. In from 18 to 24 hours the margins of the blue area become of a violet hue, and as time goes on the discoloured area increases in size, and becomes successively green, yellow, and lemon-coloured at its margins, the central part being the last to change its hue. The rate at which this play of colours proceeds varies so much, and depends on so many circum- stances, that no time limit can be laid down. A large bruise over the arm of a healthy person may disappear completely in two or three weeks.