386 DIPHTHERIA See also Alcohol {Indications in Diseases of Childhood); Amblyopia (Toxic, after Diphtheria); Asphyxia {Causes); Brain, Inflammations {Acute Encephalitis, Etiology) ; Brain, Affec- tions OF Blood-Vessels {Cerebral Thrombosis, Causing Hemiplegia after Diphtheria); Dis- infection {Incubation Periods and Quarantine); Gastro - Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Diseases of the (Esophagus, Diphtheria) ; H^matemesis {Lesions); Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Simple Endocarditis) ; Im- munity {Diphtheria) ; Infection {Rules for Prevention of Infectious Diseases); Intubation ; Joints, Diseases of {Pyogenic Diseases) ; Larynx, Neuroses of {Paralysis of Vocal Cords); Leucocytosis {Inflammatory and In- fective Conditions); Measles {Diagnosis); Meteorology {Seasonal Prevalence of Diseases); Nerves, Neuritis {Causes of Mono-Neuritis) ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Diphtheritic); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Etiology); Oxygen {Inhalation and Hydrogen Peroxide Application): Pneumonia {Pnetimo- coccus); Puerperium, Pathology {Septicaemia, Diagnosis); Puerperium, Pathology {Nipples, Diphtheria); Purpura {Symptomatic, Toxic); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Mem- branous Gastritis) ; Therapeutics, Serum - Therapy {Antidiphtheritic Serwni) ; Trachea, Affections of {Tracheotomy). Diphtheria is an inflammatory infectious disease, usually of mucous membranes, of which the essential cause is a specific micro-organism. The inflammatory process is often attended by the formation of false membranes. The absorp- tion of the toxic products of the micro-organism produces secondary effects ; of these a peculiar form of paralysis is the most characteristic. The name dipjhtheria we owe to Bretonneau (1855). He had previously (1821) used the term dijjhtheritis. History and Geographical Distribution.— The disease was first described by Aretaeus of Cappadocia in the second century a.d., who mentions that it was prevalent in Egypt and Syria. Jlltius, in the fifth century, was acquainted with it. During several succeeding centuries there occur at long intervals of time only a few doubtful records of the disease, and it is not till the sixteenth century that a more definite account is forthcoming. In 1517 Hecker described a fatal form of infectious angina that appeared in Holland, and later in Basle. During the latter half of the century the disease was prevalent in Southei'n Italy, Spain, and Portugal; there were also outbreaks in Paris and Dantzig. Epidemics continued to occur during the seventeenth century in Italy, Spain, and Portugal; and in the following century Northern France, Holland, Switzerland, Germany, Sweden, England, and North America were invaded. Towards the end of the eighteenth century, however, diphtheria seems to have been somewhat diminishing in its prevalence in the countries we have named ; and though from time to time outbreaks are reported in various quarters during the first half of the nineteenth century, it was not till its middle that the disease began again to be serious over a wide area. Since then it has been and still is, more or less, prevalent all over Europe and in North America and Australia; to a less extent also in certain districts of South America, South Africa, India, and China. Etiology.—At the present day, therefore, diphtheria is a very widely spread affection. The accumulation of properly compiled records of the fatal cases in various countries during the past twenty-five to fifty years has enabled in- ([uirers to elucidate several important facts with respect to its etiology. Amongst the most recent and valuable researches in this field are those of Newsholme. This author draws conclusions, of which the following is a brief summary :— Diphtheria has a tendency to spread from one place to another by the ordinary channels of communication. In certain years diphtheria may be pandemic over whole countries or a continent. The amount of endemic diphtheria varies greatly for different countries and cities; but " in no town from which records have been obtained is there a complete absence of the disease in a single year since the records commenced." In places where the amount of endemic diphtheria is not great, epidemics tend to occur in cycles, the intervals between the cycles being very variable for different places. The duration of an epidemic is also variable, but is usually longer in large than in small cities or towns. Before the appearance of Newsholme's work it had been shown that for England and Wales one of the most striking features with respect to the prevalence of diphtheria was that, whereas up to 1880 the disease was incident upon the rural to a greater extent than upon the urban population, since that date the reverse has been the case; there has been an increase both in rural and urban diphtheria, but the urban inci- dence has risen to a much higher degree than the rural. London has especially suffered. News- holme's observations show that this increase in urban diphtheria is not confined to England and Wales, but has also occurred in countries so widely separated as the United States, Japan, and South Australia. It is reasonable to suppose that the wonderful improvements effected during recent years in our means of transit have had no small share in contributing to this increase. Like most infectious diseases, diphtheria has its special seasonable prevalence, which, when estimated by the recorded deaths, is in this country from September to the end of the year. In London a marked rise in the notifications is observed in July. The consideration of the influence of soil and climatic conditions upon the