DEFORMITIES 292 of extension movements at the ankle with rota- tion at the medio-tarsal joint inwards. Stipports.—In slight cases it is sufficient for the patient to wear a Thomas' boot. This con- sists of a wedging up of the inner edge of the sole and heel, so that it is one-fourth to one-third thicker at the inner than the outer edge. In very flaccid feet a valgus pad may be added. Numerous bandages are made, and many pads and surgical soles, but the vulcanised rubber valgus pad is the best. Whitman's brace is often of value. For this the foot should be corrected under an anaesthetic as much as possible, and a plaster cast taken of it, and the brace modelled on the plaster cast. Later on further correction should be done, and another cast taken and the brace again modelled. In inveterate cases it is necessary to carry up the leg an outside steel support and to use a valgus pad in the boot, together with a T-strap to invert the foot. The treatment of the third degree of rigid or spasmodic flat-foot.—Before anything is done the patient should be placed entirely at rest for three to four weeks, and the following measures may then be employed. Forcible rectification under an ansesthetic and retention of the foot in plaster, or the more gradual method by tenotomy, passive exercises, and the employment of a modified Scarpa's shoe. Forcible rectification is carried out either by the hand or by Thomas' wrench under an ansesthetic. The gradual method consists in the first place of rest, then division of the peronei and extensor communis digitorum, and occasionally of the tendo Achillis, of the application of a malleable iron splint, to be followed later by the use of a Scarpa's shoe. In all these cases it is essential to keep up massage of the muscles of the leg and the application of the constant current, and so soon as the foot can safely bear it tip-toe exercises may be carried out. The treatment of the fourth degree.— It is in this degree, and when wrenching under an anaesthetic has failed, that operative interference on tlie bones is justi- fiable. The measures which have been carried out are resection of the sub-astragaloid joint, ■extirpation of the astragalus and of the scaphoid, transplantation of the posterior part of the os calcis, and excision of a wedge from the head and neck of the astragalus. Of these six the first and last are in vogue. The first is known as Ogston's operation—resection of the astragalo- scaphoid joint. It is done under full antiseptic precautions, and with a chisel the cartilage and a thin layer of bone are removed from the astragalus and the scaphoid in such a way as to leave on the latter a concave surface. The bones are then pegged together with ivory, the wound closed, and the foot put up in a plaster case. Stokes' operation consists in the removal of a wedge of bone from the head and neck of the astragalus, fully adducting the foot, closing the wound, and putting it up in plaster. After all these operations great care must be taken to suitably support the foot so that no falling of the arch occurs. The writer has seen some recurrence after operation for want of this precaution. Mktatarsalgia Definition.—This condition is a neuralgia, often extremely acute, chiefly situated in the anterior part of the foot. All authors agree that the immediate cause is pressure on the digital nerves at the head of the metatarsal bones. According to Morton, the pain is localised at the inner space between the fourth and fifth metatai'sal bones. But very often one finds that it has spread to the other digital spaces, although the pain is most severe in the neighbourhood of the fourth metatarsal bone. Causation.—There are cases which show that either rheumatism or gout plays some share in the production of the disease, and in this way : these diseases cause a falling of the anterior transverse arch of the foot, and it is due to this falling that the nerves become pressed upon. The immediate incidence of the disease is often due to a blow or a strain in which the weight comes more immediately on the front part of the foot. In other cases the pain comes on after long standing or walking, especially in narrow boots. In most instances some degree of flat- foot is present, and this is an important point, as the flatness of the posterior part of the foot has spread to the anterior part, and the meta- tarsal heads have fallen out of position in such a way that pressure is caused upon the digital nerves. Mr. Robert Jones has shown that the pain in the neighbourhood of the fourth meta- tarsal bone is due to falling of its head, and pressure upon the communicating branch be- tween the internal and external plantar nerves which passes beneath the head of the fourth metatarsal bone. In other cases it seems that it is not this communicating branch which is pressed upon, but the inter-digital nerves. Symj:itoms.—The patient complains of either a dull aching pain or intense boring burning pain, beginning in the front part of the foot and radiating thence up to the leg and the thigh. The pain is such as to render movement im- possible. It begins shortly after rising in the morning, and becomes worse before evening,- unless the patient take his boot oif and rest. In fact, a very frequent expression is that " they can get no rest mitil they remove their boot," and this they must do no matter where or under what circumstances they are. There is not, as a rule, redness, although in exceptional cases it is described as being present. If one feels care- fully, and takes a little trouble to press the metatarso-phalangeal articulations separately, one finds that pressure, especially over the fourth metatarsal bone, readily elicits the pain. It can also be produced by squeezing the foot