DERMATITIS TRAUMATICA ET VENENATA 314 form, may be carefully wiped with a pledget of cotton-wool soaked in soft soap and water, and the material thus obtained tested for arsenic and antimony. Croton oil, one of the favourite applications for producing feigned eruptions, is not easily identified chemically, and its use can only be suspected by the presence of its pustular eruption on the skin and by careful search of the patient's belongings. Other methods of pro- ducing curious eruptions are by friction of the moistened skin, sometimes after previous pro- longed sucking of the part, thus producing an excoriated wheal, or by the application of heat for so short a time that no true bulla formation is produced, but a' superficial destruction of the epidei'mis with subjacent hypera3mia. Many cases of spontaneous gangrene of young women have been published on tlie Continent, but on I'eading the reports of these cases the writer is convinced that most, if not all of them, were really instances of feigned eruption. The treatment in all doubtful cases should be the careful dressing of tlie aftected part in such a manner that the patient shall be unable to get at the place. In such cases the eruption has often been found to occur immediately beyond the dressing, a fact which, if repeated, is practically diagnostic. Exposure of the patient, when detected, is not always satisfactory in its results, since it is usually impossible to con- vince the relations, and the patient only gets more sympathy. Sometimes the patient her- self can be quietly lectured with better results, but it is probably always better to put her under a rigid course of treatment directed against the mental unsoundness. Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata in Coal-Miners. Introduction . ... . . .314 A. Physical Causes Division :— (1) Intertrigo . . . .314 (2) Eczema of the External Audi- tory Meatus . . . .315 (3) Circumscribed Inflammation of the External Auditory Meatus 315 (4) Sweat Rashes . . . .315 (5) Callosities— (a) Onsetters' Hands . . 315 (b) Yard-Stick Callosities . 315 (c) Pick-Shaft Callosities . 316 B. Chemical Causes Division :— (1) Creosote Rash .... 316 (2) Water Rash . . . .316 (3) Eczema of the Upper and Lower Extremities . . . .316 Introduction.— The Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata in Coal-miners form a very interest- ing study to every colliery siu-geon. The diffi- culties attendant on such an investigation ai-e, however, numerous. The separation of the influence of general hygienic surroundings, of poverty, of heredity, and of treatment in a more or less migratory class of workers from the direct influences exerted by the different occupations is clearly a formidable difficulty. All pit-workers do not suffer alike. Some have skins far more liable to lesions than others, so that an exciting cause in one case may have no influence in another. Again, those pitmen who are not unduly susceptible to either physical or chemical agents may show no dermatitis on the first apjDlication of an external irritant, but may do so if circumstances expose them to its in- fluence frequently. On the other hand, the history aids one greatly in arriving at a logical conclusion as to whether the disease is the result of occupation or not. The lesions are often quite local in their distri- bution and their etiology easily accounted for. Not only is this the case, but when the affection is seen only in those employed in mining, and when there is a repetition of attacks under similar circumstances, coupled with recovery when the cause is removed, one has no difficulty in stating that the disease is one due to occiipa- tion. The conclusion which one is driven to is that of the inflammations of the skin occurring in miners, and brought on by external irritants, some are due to physical and some to chemical causes. A. Physical Causes Division :— (1) Intertrigo.—This aifection usually makes a svidden appearance between two opposed sur- faces of skin. Its favourite situations are the axilla), lower half of extensor surface of right arm and inside of lower third or lower fourth of light thigh in right-handed hewers, the left arm and left thigh in left-handed hewers, groins, scroto-femoral clefts, scrotum, perineum, natal cleft, glans penis, and prepuce. The sensations produced are those of heat and pruritus. The history usually given is that the skin on the opposing surfaces became chafed and now feels hot and sore. The first appearance is simply a reddened surface, which, however, soon becomes raw as well as redder. On further irritation a fluid exudation covers the surface, and the result is a scalding or maceration of the affected area or areas of skin accompanied V)y the production of an offensive odour. The con- dition may end in an eczema. Tlie etiology of this aff'ection comprises a number of factors. Heat, moisture, contact, jjressure, movement, and friction all play their pai-t. In addition, coal-dust and coal-particle.s accumulate in the situations above mentioned, and by irritating the skin, especially when per- spiration is practically dropping oft" the skin, cause ail intertrigo. Another factor is the want of cleanliness, especially in the region of the genitals. In their daily ablutions some miners omit the latter region or only cleanse it partially. Again, the right-handed hewer who works with the back of his right elbow and the lower half