366 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM used for the nutrition of the tissues. The most marked alterations which the food undergoes are brought about by secretions which special glands elaborate, the action being an extra- cellular one, and carried out mainly by the action of enzj'mes. These non-living ferments have specific actions on one or other of the food constituents. But there is an intracellular as well as an extracellular digestion, where the changes which the assimilated material under- goes can only take place in the living cell. Our knowledge of these intracellular changes is still very limited, and in the vast majority of cases we can at most say that certain constitu- ents of the blood-plasma are taken up by a certain group of cells, and that they lea^-e it in other forms of combination (.see " Blood"). Most of our knowledge of such processes has been derived from the histologist, although the information so obtained is rather indefinite, owing to the great difficulties encountered in comparing structural with chemical alterations. It is almost impossible to know definitely whether there be at the root of all cellular digestion {e.g. auto - digestion of organs) the action of enzymes, and it is also difficult to be certain whether the ferment has been formed in the cells of a particular organ, or transmitted to the latter as a zymogen from other parts. The decomposition of the food principles into smaller molecules takes place gradually, the final products of metabolism being formed in the tissue cells where these bodies, 'which are circulating in the blood, and are required for the special work of the cell, are selected, and are in part used up to furnish energy for its specific life processes, in part also stored up either for its own use or that of other cells. The final transformations result always in the production of work and heat, and those products which cannot be used further by the organism are excreted, their further decomposition taking place outside the animal body. One of the most marvellous things in the cell life is the peculiar stamp which each cell or group of cells gives to its work, although the ultimate principles, whose decomposition affords the energy necessary for the jjarticular role of the tissue, are the same. What is ordinarily understood by the term digestion, however, is the series of changes which the food undergoes in the alimentary canal, because it is there that the most marked altera- tions take place, and it is with pathological dis- turbances from this side that the physician has to deal in cases of disordered digestion. The food is subjected in the alimentary canal to processes of two great types—mechanical and chemical. They are not, however, independent of one another, and both are under the influence of the nervous system. In order to prepare the food for absorption, it is necessary to break it down and transform it into material which can pass into the blood or lymph. Salivary Digestion Salivary digestion has two functions to per- form : in the first place, the preliminary prepara- tion of the food-stufFs for digestion with the saliva, gastric, pancreatic secretions, etc. - and, secondly, a specific action, the transformation of insoluble carbohydrates into dextrins and a soluble sugar, maltose. The saliva is formed from the secretions of the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands chiefly, with the addition of a mucous fluid from the buccal glands. It always contains suspended material—for example, epithelial squames from the palate, salivary corpuscles, leucocytes from the tonsils, etc.; but when freshly secreted the fluid is clear, rapidly becoming cloudy, however, owing to a precipitation of calcium carbonate from the removal of the carbonic acid which kept it in solution. Normally it reacts slightly alkaline, but it may be neutral or slightly acid from lactic acid fermentation set up by organisms acting on food remnants which have adhered to the teeth. Its stringy-like consistence is due to admixture with mucus. The specific gravity varies from 1-002-1-008. The principal con- stituents are water, salts (especially chlorides and phosphates of sodium, sulphocyanates), mucin, a diastatic ferment termed ptyalin, and a trace of albumin. Oxygen, carbonic acid, and a fairly large quantity of nitrogen are present. The most important constituent is the enzyme, 2^tyalin, which is produced by the serous salivary glands, although it is not present in the cells in the active form, but rather as a forerunner or zymogen. The activity of this enzyme is destroyed by warming the saliva to a tempera- ture above 70° C. One may say that it is most active in a slightly acid medium (due to organic acids) at a temperature between 3.5° and 37° 0. The action takes place rapidly, and is best studied by mixing saliva with mucilage of starch, and keeping the mixture at the above- mentioned temperature. The fluid first becomes clearer, and then the action runs through the later stages so rapidly that on examination, even after a few minutes have elapsed, the final products of the digestion have been formed. The first body that is formed is soluble starch or amidulin, which takes up water, and is split up into a form of dextrin—erythrodextrin—and maltose. From the former another dextrin— achroodextrin—and maltose are formed. Ery- throdextrin forms a coloured compound with iodine (of a red tint), while achroodextrin does not. In addition to maltose there is probably formed a small quantity of another sugar, isomaltose, and perhaps glucose. Sulphocyanates are by no means always present in saliva, only their presence or absence has no acknowledged pathological significance. The most important jmthological con&tituenU are lactic acid in diabetes (never glucose), uric