DECHLORINATION OR DECHLORIDATION 277 of diseases attended V)y dropsy, and, in particular, Bright's disease. Tiianks to the la})onrK of Widal and others, the method lias been elaborated on a rational basis, and incidentally much light has been thrown on the salt interchange of the body as well as on the nature of oedema. Contrary to popular belief, there is no evidence that the almost iniiversal practice of adding salt to food is necessary to health ; without labouring this point, it may be said that among the less €ivilised races there are many exceptions to the rule, and that the alleged instances of ill-health following privation from salt break down on careful scrutiny. The actual requirement of salt, as estimated by the amount excreted in fasting conditions, is about "6 gram daily, and this loss is more than replaced l)y the amount — I'b to2grams—naturallypi'csent in an average mixed diet. Experiments show that in health the body is in a state of chloride equilibrium, the amount eliminated daily corresponding to what is ingested. All the tissues of the body are bathed in saline fluid, and it is imperatively necessary that the osmotic pressure, or con- centration, of this should remain constant. The negative action of " physiological " salt solution on tissue cells as com])ared with the deleterious effects of stronger and weaker solutions is an illustration of this. Variations in the quantity of salt in the body must therefore be compen- sated for, and this is done, partly by the re- tention of enough water to keep it in solution of normal sti'ength, and partly by the eliminatory action of the kidneys. If a healthy man be placed on a diet free from added salt he con- tinues for several days to eliminate a quantity exceeding that ingested, losing weight the while; at the end of that time chloride equi- librium—i.e. output ecpials intake—is I'estored, and the weight remains stationary. The addi- tion of a fixed rati(in of salt causes the weight to rise again ; there is a corresponding i-etention of chlorides as measiu'cd by the output before equilibrium is re-established. From such ex- periments it has been shown that about 12 grams of sodium chloride and 1-5 to 2 kilos of water represent the floating quantity lost by a normal subject in the process of dechlorination. Owing to the ability of the kidneys to excrete chlorides freely, large doses are tolerated in health, yet the power of even the normal organ has a limit, and the habitual consumption of excessive quantities of salt beyond the renal capacity has been known to lead to retention of salt, giving rise to a3dema from the excess of water required to keep it in isotonic solution. In many forms of ne^jhritis the kidneys lose their permeability to sodium chloride, the salt is retained in the tissues, and dropsy ensues. This has been abundantly veritied by experi- ment. Patients with Bright's disease, swollen with dropsy, when put on a diet containing no added salt often lose weight steadily, the oedema also vanishing. On adding salt the weight rises, and the dropsy reappears. It is found in such a case that on each addition or subtraction of salt with its corresponding rise and fall in the weight curve there is a definite level at which visible a'dema makes its appearance. Widal calls the interval during which the weight is rising towards this point the pre-wdematrms period; it represents the accumvdation of fluid in the viscera. We need not discuss the relation of salt retention to the syndrome of urtemia; the evidence that it is responsible for the nervous symptoms is less tangible than its causal connection with oedema. It nmst, however, be said that in removing oedema by dechlorination we have more than a symptomatic trciitment. The kidneys, like the other viscera, suff'er from the eftects of interstitial oedema, and there is reason to believe that in curing this renal oedema we break a link in the chain of a vicious circle, in which the inadequacy of the kidney produces a renal lesion which still further impairs the efficiency of the organ. Whatever be the precise explanation, it is certain that a dropsical patient, whose kidneys are impervious to very small quantities of chloride, may, after dechlorination, regain the power of eliminating it in cf)nsiderable amount, and with this there may be marked diminution in the albumen passed. Dechlorination is occasionally attended by nervous symptoms resembling those of unemia; these, however, are rare and transitory. The practice of dechlorination is sim2:)le, and, contrary to what might be anticipated, patients seldom rebel against being deprived of salt. Milk contains D6 grams of salt per litre, which is equivalent to about 5-G grams in an average daily ration. Although this considerably ex- ceeds the proportion naturally present in a mixed diet, it is much inferior to the (juantity habitually consumed as added salt (15 to 20 grams), and probably the etticacy of milk in the treatment of nephritis is as much due to its comparative poverty in chlorides as to any special attribute of its proteid content. In strict dechlorination, however, recourse must be had to a mixed diet, which may lie selected from among the following, cooked without the addi- tion of salt:—Fresh meat of all kinds, fresh- water fish, eggs, fresh buttei', cream, potatoes, and farinace;x3 generally, sweets, vegetables, and fruit. The only article which requires special fabrication is bread ; as ordinarily baked it con- tains from '8 to 1 per cent of salt; this, there- fore, must be omitted. Soups, sea-water fish, all forms of salted or preserved foods, cheese, and milk are proscribed. In practice Widal allows from 100 to 200 grams of meat daily, with farinacea;, etc., as the appetite demands. Patients sulqected to dechlorination should be kept in bed until the weight ceases falling and remains stationary. Should dehydration