CONTUSIONS 223 Evidence of the previous existence of a bruise may be found for some time in the pigmentation of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. ConuS Arteriosus.—The conical pro- longation of the upper and left angle of the right ventricle of the heart; the infundibulum ; its stenosis constitutes one of the varieties of congenital heart disease. See Heart, Congenital Malformations of. ConuS MedullariS.—The conical termination of the spina! cord which lies im- mediately above the slender _/i/«m terriiinale ; it has been injured during lumbar puncture. Convalescence. — The period of gradual restoration to health after an illness. See Invalid Feeding {Diet during Convalescence); PuERi'ERiUiM, Physiology {M<magement)\'\!\vnou) Fever ; etc. Convallaria Majalis.—The leaves, stem, and flowers of the lily of the valley con- stitute the non-official medicine {Convallaria Majalis); convallaniarin (C.„,H^^Ojo) is the active principle, and the plant contains also conval- larin (C.,^H,;oOjj), l)oth of them glucosides; the Tinchtra ConvallaricB (made from the flowers) is given in doses of 5 to 20 m. in the same class of case as digitalis. See Pharmacology ; Digitalis. Converg'ence. See Accommodation (Accommodation and Convergence); Brain, Physiology of {Third Nerve, Median Nticleus); Eye, Clinical Examination of {Visual Acuity, Power of Convergence); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis, Squint); Strabismus. Convolutions of the Brain. See Brain, I'iivsiology; Broca's Convolution; Gyrus; Physiology, Nervous System {Cerebrum). Convulsions.—Violent irregular motion of the whole l)ody or parts of it due to in- voluntary contractions and relaxations of the voluntary muscles; different varieties are apoplectic, cataleptic, choreic, clonic, eclamptic, epileptic, epileptiform, hysterical, infantile, in- ternal, mimetic, oscillatory, puerperal, salaam, tetanic, tonic, and unxjmic. See Aneurysm {Common Carotid, Treatment by Ligature); Antispasmodics ; Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels {Anaemia, (Edema); Brain, Affections OF Blood-Vessels {Tlirombosis, Vascular Lesions and their Results); Brain, Inflammations {Clinical Features); Brain, Tumours of ; Brain, Cerebellum, Affections op (7Wio?w) ; Convul- sions, Infantile ; Gastro-Intestinal Disorders OP Infancy {Chronic Diarrhoea, Complications); General Paralysis {Diagnosis); Hysteria ; Labour, Operations {Forceps); Measles {Con- vulsions); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Symptoms); Mental Deficiency ; Nose, Post- Nasal Adenoids ; Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia, Infantile Hemiplegia); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Nervous System, Convul- sions) ; Syphilis {Children, Nervous System) ; Toxicology {Lead); Trades, Dangerous {Lead- Poisoning) ; Unconsciousness ; Uraemia. Convulsions, Infantile. Frequency ...... 223 Etiology 223 Symptoms ...... 224 Prognosis ...... 224 Treatment ...... 225 See also Convulsions. Definition.—The term convulsions is applied to more or less general purposeless muscular conti'actions, occurring simultaneously and suc- cessively for a variable time, attended in most instances by a loss of consciousness more or less profound. The more strictly local muscular con- tractions are more appropriately and conveniently denoted as spasm. Frequency.—The frequency of convulsions in infancy has been greatly exaggerated, especially amongst the lay public. The convulsive movements of the limbs seen in moribund children, mainly due to the venous state of the blood, must not be considered in the same category. Etiology.—The causes of convulsions can be divided into predisposing and exciting, of which the former are the more important. PredisjMsing Causes. — 1. All writers seem inclined to place as foremost amongst the pre- disposing causes what has been termed the instability or irritability of the infantile nervous system. This instaliility disappears with ad- vancing age and the further development of the higher centres. 2. An inherited neurotic tendency or consti- tution is a very important factor. Published statistics give a neurotic history in 32 per cent of the parents ; and if convulsions in brothers and sisters of the patients are considered, then the family neurotic history rises as high as 67 per cent. The importance of this factor in the causation of convulsions has not as yet been sufficiently recognised and acknowledged. 3. Rickets is a further predisposing cause. Whilst, however, a very large percentage of convulsive infants are rachitic, yet convulsions do not occur in certainly more than 5 per cent of all cases of rickets. When convulsions occur in this last they are frequently associated with laryngismus stridulus and tetany. The ex- planation of the occurrence of all three dis- orders is, perhaps, due to tlie brain suffering in the general malnutrition with the rest of the body in rickets. Exciting Causes. — Almost any central or peripheral lesion in infancy may act as an exciting cause, especially in subjects predis-