DRUG ERUPTIONS 426 doubtful, and when the deposit has attained a certain limit, its removal is hopeless. Arsenic produces skin manifestations of vary- ing degree either by local contact or by ingestion. The former are especially seen amongst those who work in it, either in the crude form, or in some of those numerous articles of commerce in the manufacture of which it plays so important a part. Thus they are met with in those engaged in the manufacture of artificial flowers, card- board boxes, etc., and in those who wear stock- ings or other articles of iniderclothing dyed with the cheaper colouring matters which often con- tain arsenic in a poisonous degree. In other cases these eruptions have followed the \ise of skin lotions and cosmetics. The results of its internal administration are various, and numer- ous types have been described. An erythematous type resembling erysipelas, and often becoming- vesicular, affecting mainly the face and eyelids, which become congested and ccdematous, is one of those most frequently met with. Another— the ■papular form—appears mainly on the face, neck, hands, and about the genital organs. At first the papules are few in number and small, occurring in scattered groups which subse- quently either enlarge or coalesce to form disseminated patches of irregular outline that may bear a close resemblance to a papiilar syphilide, though the coppery hue is less pronounced or absent altogether (Imbert- Gourbeyre). The urticarial type has been frequently observed, and differs in no essential particular from the well-known wheals and associated symptoms of ordinary nettle-rash. The vesicular form is now well recognised, some- times resembling eczema of an obstinate char- acter, and such as one meets with in ordinary cases of " weeping eczema." Hutchinson first directed attention to the comparatively fre- quent occurrence of attacks of herpes zoster (" shingles") in persons taking arsenic. His observations have been extended and confirmed by Nielsen, who found that of 557 cases of psoriasis treated with arsenic in the Copenhagen General Hospital, nearly 2 per cent (1"80) suffered from herpes, whilst among those treated without arsenic not a single case occurred. The relation of arsenic to the production of peri- pheral neuritis is well known, and furnishes an explanation of the etiology of zoster in these cases. A pustular form has also been observed to follow the administration of the drug, finding its termination in the development of crusts or ulcers which heal slowly with permanent scar- ring. Morris has noticed the occurrence of boils and carbuncles, an observation confirmed by others, which points to a graver degree of pyogenetic infection, or may be due to an acci- dental inoculation. Thickening of the skin of the palms and soles is alsoj seen, the indura- tion beginning around the sweat follicles, and gradually extending thence peripherally until a uniform condition of keratosis is produced. Hutchinson has directed attention to the tend- ency this induration shows to ulceration and to the subsequent ultimate development of epi- thelioma. It is obvious, therefore, that in the multiplicity of lesions produced by arsenic great discrimination is essential, the ultimate test in every case being the disappearance of the erup- tion on withholding the drug. In the pustular or ulcerative condition the use of soothing or antiseptic lotions may become a necessary ad- junct to treatment. Belladonna (atropin) pi'oduces a diffuse ei'y- thematous blush which is mainly limited to the face, neck, and upper part of the thorax, and which only rarely becomes generally distributed. It is of a vivid redness and closely simulates the exanthem of scarlatina. It occurs for the most part (leaving aside cases of poisoning) in young children with clear, transparent skins, is extremely evanescent in duration, and is not followed by desquamation. Crocker states that he has rarely seen the eruption following medici- nal doses, but agrees with its occurrence in cases of poisoning by the drug. The use of atropin in eye practice is occasionally followed by a severe inflammation which strikingly resembles erysipelas. Fox has called attention to the fact that the diffused scarlatiniform rash may be seen occasionally to follow the external application of belladonna in some of its prepara- tions, such as the emplastrum or glycerin. The point of chief clinical importance is to diagnos- ticate between this drug rash and that of scarlatina ; but the factors already mentioned, when no epidemic is prevalent, especially the absence of prodromal symptoms, the fleeting nature of the erythema, and tiie usually almost normal temperature, can hardly, if carefully weighed, leave any possibility of error. Benzoin.—In the form of friar's balsam, ordered for inhalation. Fox has observed the occurrence of a purpuric erythema, which was confluent upon the trunk, but more discrete upon the extremities. Benzoic acid given in small quantities has been known to produce a rose-coloured maculo-papular eruption, which disappeared on discontinuance of the drug; and several cases have been noticed where ery- thematous rashes, attended with itching and followed by slight desquamation, have resulted from the administration of ordinary medicinal doses of benzoate of sodium. Boric Acid.—Erythematous rashes, followed in a certain number of cases by even fatal results, have been reported as a consequence of the absorption of boric acid from washing out cavities, generally serous, with large quantities of the drug in solution. Impetiginous eruptions have also followed its internal administration. The borate of sodium, given in 5-grain doses over a long period, in cases of epilepsy, has been observed by Gowers and Liveing to give rise to