CONFUSION 203 Epidemic Cekebro-Spinal {Si/mptomx, Psijchn-aJ Disttirbanceii). Confusional Insanity. AW In- sanity, Its Nature and Svmptom.s {Ti/pes, De- lusional Insanity, Confusional). Cong'elation. See Gangrene (Frost- bite). Cong'enital.—Present at the time of liirth. <SV( A.MiiLYOPiA; Capillaries, Diseases OF (JVo'vus); Cataract ; Choroid, Diseases of {Congenital); Cornea {Congenital Opacities); Deformities {Congenital Dislocations, etc.); Eye- lids, Affections {Distichiasis, etc.) ; Heart, Congenital Malformations of ; Hernia {Con- genital) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections {Hydro- nephrosis) ; Lachrymal Apparatus, Diseases of {Blennorrhcea); Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations {Congenital Glottic Stenosis); Larynx, Congenital Laryngeal Stridor ; Medi- astinum {2'umours, Congenital Cysts); Memory IN Health and Disease {Congenital Defects); Menstruation and its Disorders {Congenital Atresia); Mental Deficiency {Classification, Congenital); Morphinomania {Congenital Ilahi- tues); Muscles, Diseases of {Corigenital Al>- sence); Myasthenia Gravis {Ccjyigenital Ab- normalities); Nails, Affections of {Congenital); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Congenital Nystagmus, etc.); QKsophagus {Dilatation and Pouches); Paralysis {Ccmgenital Spastic, Con- genital Chorea, etc.); Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases ; Retina and Optic Nerve {Congenital Abnormalities); Shoulder, Diseases of {Con- genital Defects); Stomach and Duodenum, Dis- eases OF {Hypertrophy of Pylorus); Tera- tology. Cong'er. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Fish as Hosts for Hydatids). Cong'estion.— Hypenemia, or an ex- cessive accumulation of blood in any part or organ {e.g. the uterus, liver, kidneys, or brain); it is not, strictly speaking, synonj-mous with inflammation. Con^O Sickness. See Sleeping Sick- ness (iR Negk(i Lethargy. Conhydrina. — A vegetable alkaloid (CcjHj-NO), contained in hemlock. Str Alka- loids ; CoNiUM. Conical Cornea. <S'ee Cornea (CWu-a/ Cornea). Conidia. See Micro-Organisms {Hypho- mycetes). Conine. .SVe Alkaloids ; Conium. Conium.^Both the leaves and tlie fruit of Conium maculafum are official. The most important constituents ai'e—(1) Conine, an oily liquid alkaloid, which has a strong depressing action on all motor nerves, and eventually on sensory nerves also ; (2) Methyl-conine, a fluid alkaloid, with a depressing action on the spinal cord ; and (3) Conhydrive (e/.v.). The prepara- tions of Conium vary greatly as to the relative and absolute amount of these two principles present, and their effects are consequently un- reliable. The p7-e2)aratiotis are—1. From Con Fructus, Tinctura Conii. Dose—3- 2. From Conii Folia — (1) Succus Conii. Dose—1-2 5- (2) Unguentum Conii, made from the succus. Conium has occasionally appeared to be of service in painful stomach conditions ; and, as a temporary expedient, in asthma, chorea, and other spasmodic aft'ections, when accompanied by restlessness and insomnia. It has also been used in tetanus and epilepsy, but its value in these diseases is extremely doubtful. Conine is too stronglj' alkaline to be given hypodermically, but a hydrohromate has been employed for this purpose in doses of from ^-^ grain. Conjugrate or Conjugrata.—The conjugate of an ellipse is the minor axis or dia- meter, therefore at the brim of the pelvis the conjugate is the antero-posterior diameter; the anatomical conjugate is drawn from the sacral promontory to the outer edge of the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the ob- stetrical conjugate to the inner edge, or to a point just below it, where the joint bulges slightly backward into the brim (the latter has been called the conjugata minima) ; the diagonal conjugate is measured from the sacral promon- tory to the lower border of the symphysis pubis ; and the external conjugate (or Baudelocque's diameter) is measured from a point just below the spine of the last lumbar vertebra posteriorly to the anterior surface of the symphysis pubis. See Generation, Fe:male Organs of (Pelvis, Diameters); Laik)UR, Operations (Induction.). Conjug:ate Deviation.—The per- sistent turning of the eyes to one side without any alteration in their relationship to each other, e.g. away from the paralysed side in hemiplegia. See Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Paralysis); Meningitis, Tuberculous (Sympitoms). Conjunctiva, Diseases of. Anatomy 204 Malformatk)Ns and Congenital Anom- alies 204 IN FLAM MATORY A FFECTI OXS- - Acute Ojihthalmla .... 205 Muco-2>urvlcnt, Purulent, Acute Granular, Memhmnous . . 205 Chronic OiMnlmia . . .209 Chronic Muco - purulent Con- junctivitis, Follicular Con- junctivitis, Trachoma . 209 Phlyctenular Conjunctivitis . . 210 Spring Catarrh . . ■ .211 Emnthematons Conjunctivitis . .211