470 EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF affect the auricle, as compared with other parts of the body, the reader must be referred to them for further information. Erysipelas frequently extends from the face or head to the auricle, and from the reddened, swollen, and vesicated appearance, may be mistaken for the acute stage of eczema. The author has seen erysipelas arise from the external meatus, and extend over the head during the course of a purulent middle ear affection. Abscess of the auricle is generally of a furuncular nature, when it may be associated with a similar condition in the external meatus. Abscess may also arise from a traumatic cause. Warm fomentations, antiseptic applications, and incision are the remedies to be employed. The reader is referred to furunculus of the external meatus at p. 473. Frost-hite.—When exposed to intense and prolonged cold, dermatitis of the auricle may be produced. The skin is red and inflamed, while in more severe forms, occurring particularly in persons having a feeble circulation, livid nodules, becoming pale on pressure, appear. These may lead to excoriation or ulceration, and, in the worst forms, to gangrene, which may result in extensive destruction of the auricle. In the early stage inflammation caused by frost-bite may be treated with iced water, or gentle friction, or the lead and opium lotion. The frequent bathing with hot water is said to be more efficient in some cases. The nodules are best treated with tincture of iodine or with collodion. Excoriation or ulceration should be treated by means of a suitable ointment, such as iodoform, or boi'acic acid and vaseline. In persons predisposed to frost-bite, the auricle should be carefully protected from cold during severe weather, while the general health should be raised to as high a level as possible. 4. Morbid Groivths.—Sarcoma and carcinoma rarely involve the auricle primarily. When originating in the auricle, epithelioma attacks most frequently the upper part of the helix, extending to the meatus, middle ear, and, as a rule, to the cranial cavity. Early ex- tirpation of the disease by operation gives the only chance to the patient. Benignant con- nective-tissue formations, especially fibroma of the lobule, are most frequent. These fibrous gi'owths of the lobule may originate in the irritation caused by the wearing of ear-rings, and they may attain to great dimensions, especially in negro women. Removal by operation is the only remedy. Angiomata are occasionally met with in the auricle. Several may exist, and they form bluish, pulsating tumours, extending, it may be, to the head. From them dangerous haemorrhage may take place. Politzer recommends the thermopuncture by Paquelin's thermocautere. Sebaceous cysts, when occuiTing on the auricle, are treated as on other parts of the body. Gouty deposits, in the form of sodium biurate, are sometimes met with, especially in the upper part of the helix or in the fossa of the helix. II. Diseases of the External Auditory Meatus 1. Abnormal States op the Cerumen.— Excess—Ceruminous Obstructioii.—The cerumi- nous secretion consists, in a normal condition, chiefly of fatty and colouring matter forming a circular yellowish-white layer, having the consistence of honey, in the inner part of the cartilaginous meatus. When in excess it may be semi-fluid or doughy in consistence, but more frequently it is dry, firm, and even stony. The colour of the mass varies. It is often of a chocolate colour, while, if epidermis enters largely into its composition, the colour is grey or whitish. If the patient works in an atmo- sphere containing much coal-dust or other black particles, the colour may be a deep black. In addition to cerumen there enter into the masses sebaceous matter, epidermic scales, hair, coal-dust, etc., while, occasionally, the centre is composed of a small ball of cotton or other foreign body. The jalug after removal may be found covered with a dirty white membrane, and, on its iimer end, a mould of the outer surface of the tj'iupanic membrane is occasion- ally seen. The obstructing mass not infre- quently forms a plug filling the whole canal; but comparatively small quantities may, on the other hand, be sufficient, in certain circumstances, to impede the transmission of sound. Causes.—These accumulations may be due simply to a mechanical hindrance to the natural escape of the cerumen from the ear, such as—a natural narrowness of the meatus, the presence of bristly hairs at the orifice, eczematous thickening of the meatal walls, exostosis or hyperostosis, or collapse in old age of the cartilaginous meatus. Efforts to remove the wax from the ear, such as by the use of the corner of a towel or an "aurilave," may result in the formation of a hard ball of cerumen in the deep part of the meatus. Or the obstruc- tion may be simply due to excessive secretion, which in many cases is also abnormally dry and tenacious. This excess is often found naturally in persons who perspire readily; but local congestion, such as furuncular or eczematous inflammation, may excite the glands to abnormal action. Mechanical irritation also, such as fre- quent scratching with the point of a pen or a toothpick, may have a similar effect. Catarrhal processes in the middle ear are sometimes associated with excess as well as inspissation. In sclerosis of the middle ear, on the other hand, the secretion is often found to be diminished or even abolished. Symptoms.—Defective heai'ing is the chief symptom of ceruminous obstruction. This may come on quite suddenly, and may for a time