1 VOL. II ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONARY OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY Bread. Scv Invalid Feeding (Diet dur- ing Convalescence) ; I'liYSiou.xiV, Food and j Digestion {Cereah). Breakbone Fever. See Dengue. Breast. See Mammary Gland, Diseases OF. See also Bandages {the breast); Chest, De- formities OF; Infant P^ebding {Human Milk, Breast-Feeding, Weaning, Wet-Nursing); Men- struation ( Vicarious) ; Physiology, Excretion {Milk - Secretion) ; Pregnancy, Phy'siology {Changes in the Mammce); Pregnancy, Dia- gnosis ; Pregnancy, Management ; Puerperium, Physiology {Care of Breasts); Puerperium, Pathology {Affectimis of Breasts and Nipples) ; Syphilis. Breastpangf. See Angina Pectoris. Breast Pump. See Puerperium, Phy- siology ; I^ubrperiujM, Pathology {Affections of Breasts and Npples). Breath. See also Alcoh(jlism ; Bromism Diabetes Mbllitus {Diagnosis); Heart, Myo- cardium and Endocardium {Stomach Symj^toms, Acetone Odour) ; Nose, Examination of {Odour) ; (Esophagus (Z>;7ai!(/i2'o?t q/'); Respiration; Stam- mering ; Stomach, Diseases of {Symptomatology, Foul Breath) ; Toxicology {Phosphorus, Garlic Odour) • Typhoid Fever {Symptoms). — Tlie expired air which is popularly known as the breath consists of atmospheric air returned from the lungs satui-ated with watery vapour, and otherwise altered chemically and physically by having increased its proportion of carbonic acid gas, having become warmer, and being charged with more or less putrescible organic matter which in certain diseases gives it an offensive odoui", as in some forms of dyspepsia, in ozfena, tonsillitis, bronchiectasis, phthisis, pulmonary gangrene, and ty])lius fever. It normally con- tains 4'782 vols, per cent less oxygen and 4'3)S vols, per cent more CO., than ordinary air. These figures give the respiratory quotient as CO 4'38 -Q-^'= ^ ,_g".^ = 0'905, but this may vary under normal conditions. These chemical changes are the immediate result of the exchange of gases in the lungs, and remotely depend upon the vital exchange which takes place in the tissues {vide " Respiration "). E.xpired air also contains traces of ammonia from the lilood and traces of H and CH^, probably derived from the digestive ti'act, whence also come such products of de- composition as acetone, which gives a peculiar and characteristic odour to the breath. This odour has been most often observed in diabetes, but as acetone is found in the urine after taking- alcohol, in pneumonia, measles, and other acute diseases, especially in children, it is unsafe to attach to it any great diagnostic value, but undoubtedly its presence would suggest the desirability of a careful examination of the urine. Sulphuretted hydrogen, if formed in the stomach or small intestine, is exci'eted tlirough the lungs, as are the vegetable volatile sulphides found in onions and garlic. Foul-smelling breath is perhaps most often dependent upon putrefac- tive processes in carious teeth or among the papilla; of a coated tongue. The normal tem- perature of the bi'eath is 36'3 C, which is very near the temperature of the body. External cold increases the intake of oxygen and the dis- charge of carbon dioxide, while a rise of external temperature is followed by a diminution of both. Muscular exercise acts like cold, and un- doubtedly a considerable jiart of the effect of cold is due to the involuntary movements excited hy it. Food produces the same result, while fasting- lowers it. In the case of Cetti, the fasting man,