DILECANUS 385 DiiecanuS. — United twins or double monster, in wiiich the head and chest are single and the pelvis double ((ir. Aekos-, a dish or pelvis) ; the terra was introduced by Taruffi (1889) ; and the pelves may be situated side by side {Dilecanus dipleurus), or may be attached to each other in the pubic regions {Dilecanus ibipagus). Dill Fruit. See Anethi Fructus. Diluents.—Medicines or indifferent sub- stances which increase the proportion of water in the blood and other bodily fluids, which, as it is said, " thin the blood." Water is the most commonly employed, and its action is aided by the addition to it of lemon peel or an acid (which increases the flow of saliva). Diluents render the urine less irritating, diminish thirst, and remove products of disordered metabolism from the body; they are therefore used in cystitis, diabetes, fever, gout, rheumatism. See Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; etc. Dimethylamine.—A liquid (NCoH-) having an ammoniacal smell ; it has been found in decomposing fish, and is a ptomaine or animal alkaloid. Dimethyl (CH,;) is ethane or ethyl hydride ; in dimethylamine two of the hydrogen atoms of ammonia have been replaced by ethane. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Poisonous Fish, Putrefaction). Dimethylarsine. .See Cacodyl. Dimethylbenzene. Xylene. Dimidiate.—Divided into two; double; ej/. a placenta consisting of two nearly equal parts is a dimidiate or duplex placenta. Dimple, Postanal. — A dei>iession or umbilication f(Mnid immediately behind the anus, over the lower end of the sacrum or coccyx ; foveola coccygea ; it may be surrounded by a ring of haii's; it may be associated with spina bifida, and may be the seat of a fistula, or sinus, or cyst, or dermoid. See Pjallantyne's Antenatal Patholo;/^/, vol. ii. p. 327. Dinitrobenzine. Trades, Danger- ous {Alliliili: J'olsoiiiII;/). Dinomania.—Choreomania or dancing- mania (from Gr. Su'os, a whirl, and /tai'ta, madness). Dinsdale-On-Tees. See Balneology (Great Britain, Sulphur). Dioctophyme Gigas. — Stroui/i/iu^ gi</as ; a large nematode occasionally found in man. See Parasites {Nematodes, Stroiuiylida-, Eustron<v/lus gigas). Diodon. — Porcupine fish, regarded as poisonous. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes. vol. II DiodoncephaluS.—The deformity in which there is a double row of teeth in the same jaw. Dioestrum.—The short resting stage be- tween two oestrous cycles as seen in polyoestrous mammals, such as the sheep and the mare. See Ancestrum. Dion in.—Dionin is ethylmorphine hydro- chloride (Ci^HooNOg.HCl.H./J), and has the medicinal properties of morphine, with, it is said, less liability to produce the morphine habit; it has been specially recommended (in doses of -J- to \ grain) in whooping-cough, in asthma, in eye practice, and in internal painful conditions (gastric cancer or ulcer, colic, etc.). Dioptre.—The unit of optical power ; the optical strength or refractive power of a lens of one metre focal length. ("A convex lens inter- posed in the path of a parallel beam of light brings the light to a focus at a constant distance from itself, which is called the focal length of the lens.") See Refraction {Lenses). The dioptric mechanism by w-hich an object is seen as single by two eyes is described in the article Physiology, The Senses (Vision, Monocular). DiOXybenzene.—Diphcnol ; benzene in which 2 atoms of hydrogen have been replaced by 2 molecules of hydroxyl, C(;H^(OH)o; there are three isomeric varieties—(1) orthodioxy- benzene or pyrocatechin, (2) metadioxybenzene or resorcin, and (3) paradioxybenzene or hydro- quinone. See Physiology, Excretion {Urine). DiOXypurin.—Xanthin (CjH^N^O,). Diphallus.—The deformity (probably a low degree of double monster) in which the penis is double; there may be evidence of duplication of the lower end of the spinal column in such cases as well as of the bladder. Diphtheria. History and Geographical Distribution Etiology ..... Clinical History .... Faucial Diphtherui Nasal ,, ... Laryngeal „ ... Wound ,, etc. Symptoms and Complications Morbid Anatojiy and Pathology . Diagnosis . . . . • Prognosis . . . . ■ Treatment . . . • ■ Antitoxin . . . • • Local Intid)atioii and Tracheotomij General, Dietetic, and ifedicinal . I.^olation and Disin fection Prophylaxis . ■ ■ ■ 386 386 389 389 389 389 390 390 392 394 395 396 396 398 399 399 399 400