DIPHTHERIA 389 Board, the fall continuing till «liortly after the I'eopening of the schools at the end of the holidays, when the notifications rise again. But the question is not absolutely settled. According to Newsholme, in certain of the large continental cities where compulsory school attendance has been in force for manj' years, it seems to have had no great influence one way or the other upon the prevalence of diphtheria. Newsholme, however, is dealing with the mortality of diphtheria for all ages. What is required is a comparison of the mortality for the school ages with that for other ages. Accord- ing to ]\Iurphy, the figures for Berlin, as far as they go, tell the same story as those for London. CijNiCAL History.—The incubation jyeriod is from twelve hours to four days. Though any of the mucous membranes may be the seat of the disease, yet in the vast majoi'ity of cases the fauces alone are affected. Next to the faucial the nasal and larnygeal forms are the most common. The conjunctiva, genital organs, and cutaneous wounds are rarely affected ; still more rarely the O'sophagus, ear, stomach, urethi-a, and bladder. Faucial diphtheria is very insidious in its onset. Such striking symptoms as frequent vomiting or a rigor are rare. The patient, usually a child, is observed to look ill and refuses his food. The cervical glands may be en- larged, and the parents perhaps think the child has mumps. If on this sign of illness the temperature be taken, it will be found to be i-aiscd (101° to 105° F.). The pulse-rate is slightly accelerated. On inspection of the fauces tlie tonsils are seen to be slightly swollen and covered with a glazy film. In adults, and sometimes in children, sore tlu'oat is the first symptom. The subsequent course of the attack varies. In a fatal case, untreated or treated too late with antitoxin, it is as follows:—The glazy film lieeomes a definite yellowish exuda- tion of a- distinctly membranous character. It spreads from the tonsils over the soft palate, uvula, and pharynx (very rarely to the mouth and tongue), often forming a continuous sheet. Tlie mucous membrane beneath is inflamed and swollen, though only occasionally to an extreme degree, and from it a slight oozing of blood takes place. After five or six days the exuda- tion begins to decompose and separate. It turns a greyish black colour, and from it a jieculiar and very oft'ensive odour is given oft'. After separation there is often repeated re-formation of membrane. In some cases the exudation may have quite disappeared before the fatal issue, which usually takes place in seven to fourteen days from the onset. Meanwhile, witii the exten- sion of the local aftcction, the lymphatic glands below and behind the jaw become inodcrately en- larged and painful. Occasionally also the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the neck are swollen. The nasal passages are freipiently invaded, and a blood-stained watery discharge constantly trickles from tlie nostrils, and from time to time mem- branous casts of the nasal fossie are expelled. The temperature falls (puckly after the initial rise. Its subsequent course is very irregular. Briefly it may be stated that a fresh extension of faucial exudation, or the occurrence of adenitis, cellulitis, or broncho-pneumonia, leads to a rise of temperature, but that during the last three or four days, after the patient has fallen into the final state of prostration, it is subnormal. The pulse during the first few days is moderately frequent (100 to 130) and compressible. Then with the increasing heart- failure it falls in rate, and the tension becomes lower. In most cases there is alljuminuria. The constitutional symptoms are those due to ' progressive cardiac faihire, increasing pallor and - prostration, diminished flow of urine, and fretpient I vomiting. Towards the end the patient is drowsy, but restless. The mind is quite clear and delirium is exceptional. Death is due to syncope, and is often attended by a slight convidsion. In non-fatal cases the symptoms difter only in degree from those just described. As a rule the severity of the constitutional symptoms depends upon the extent of the local lesion, which varies greatl3\ In the very mildest forms there will be two or three small patches of exudation limited to one or both tonsils. In cases not so slight there are niuiierous patches on the tonsils, uvula, and palate. The exuda- tion is not necessarily membranous, but may be cheesy, pultaceous, or gelatinous. It may com- mence at one spot or simultaneously at many. But the favourite place of origin is one of the tonsils. Occasionally it begins in the tonsillar crypts. In mild cases it remains limited, and lasts but a short time. In such cases there may be no constitutional symptoms. Nasal diplttlitria is most commonly fotmd ac- companying the faucial and laryngeal varieties. But the disease may remain limited to the nasal passages. There is a discharge, at first watery, ! afterwards muco-purulent, and oceasiouallyblood- stained ; often it is oft'ensive and excoriates the i nostrils and lip. The nose is more or less blocked, and casts of the nasal passages may be shed. The constitutional symptoms are rarely severe. The discharge is often chronic. Lari/ngeal diphtheria is in the large majority of cases secondary to the faucial form. It occurs in from 11 to 15 per cent of all cases of clinical diphtheria, and arises within a week from the onset of the primary attection. It is quite the exception for diphtheria to start in the larynx. But inasmuch as the larynx may, and often does, become involved in very slight cases of the faucial disease, the symptoms due to 1 its invasion may be the first signs of the illness of I the patient. The symptoms are those of laryn- geal obstruction ; aphonia, stridor, a frequent I harsh cough, and recession of the chest-walls.