DIGESTION AND METABOLISM The distincticjn of reniiin from its zymogen is founded on similar facts. Tke Nervmis Alechanisiii of Secretion.—The seci'etory nerves are the vagi. In a dog, in which a gastric fistula had been established and the Oisophagus cut through, the eating of food induced an immediate secretion of gastric juice, accompanied by reddening of the gastric mucosa owing to vascular dilatation. This reflex secre- tion ceased to occur after both vagi had been divided. Stimulation of the peripheral ends of the vagi by slowly repeated induction shocks also produced secretion. In a human sul)ject in whom tiie lumen of the a3sophagus had become closed so that a gastric fistula had to be formed, the chewing of food, none of which entered the stomach, pro- duced a copious flow of gastric juice. The Motor Mechanism of Gastric Diyeittion.— The stomach is usually closed at both its orifices, the cardiac and pyloric openings, by the conti'action of the sphincter - like, circularly arranged muscle fibres. The cardiac orifice is open during each act of swallowing at the close of the peristaltic contractions of the cesophagus, iuid the pylorus is open from time to time to allow the passage of the liquefied food material or chyme into the intestine. Diu-ing the process of digestion the stomach walls are in continual peristaltic movement, thus ensuring the thorough admixture of the food with the gastric secretion, and also permitting the mechanical subdivision •of the food masses. By these contractions the food material is propelled in two directions, the •circumferential portions of the food passing towards the pylorus, while the central portions pass towards the cardiac orifice. This circulatory movement brings the digestive secretion into intimate contact with the food substances. The muscular movements are most active in the region l)ordering upon the pylorus (antrum pylori), which for this reason is sometimes sejxirated by an oblique furrow fi'om the remainder of the stomach. In the early stages of digestion the pylorus is firmly closed; but towards its ter- mination the closure becomes much less firm, so that the contractions of the antrum pylori succeed in propelling the more fluid portions of the mass through the pyloric opening. Cold water is .said by some to produce rapid opening ■of the pylorus. The gastric movements are brought under the control of the nervous system by means of two sets of fibres. The vagi contain accelerator fibres, so that their stimulation induces peristaltic movement. Inhibitory impulses are ti'ansmitted through fibres, which in the dog leave the cord by the anterior roots of the fifth to the eighth thoracic spinal nerves. These fibres thence pass into the sympathetic system, have their cell stations in the ca'liac ganglion, and ultimately reach the stomach by way of the splanchnic aaerves. VOL. II The (I II rat ion if digextion, in health varies con- siderably according to the nature and (juantity of the food taken, and also to individual idio- syncrasies. The normal limits lie between three and seven hours after a substantial meal, e.i/. Riegel's test meal. A longer stay of food material in the stomach indicates motor in- sufficiency. Functions of the (Jastric Juice Digestion commences in the stomach. In the mouth the food substances become mixed with the saliva, but their stay there is too short to allow of much digestive action taking place. The chief changes produced by the gastric juice are the following :— 1. The soluble nutriment, wliicli has escaped solution by the saliva, is dissolved. 2. The ptyalin of the saliva converts the starch into dextrins and maltose. This action continues as long as there is no free acid present in the stomach. 3. The acid of the gastric juice brings into solution any earthy phosphates or carbonates introduced with the food. 4. The gastric juice, in virtue of its pepsin and hydrochloric acid, dissolves insoluble and coagulated proteids and their allies, converting them into bodies resemltling glolnilins. These proteids, which are already in solution, become chemically altered. The proteids undergo con- version into a body (acid albumin) precipitable on neutralisation, and not coagulable by heat. At a later stage bodies are formed which are not precipitable by neutralising the fluid; and as digestion proceeds the solubility of the bodies formed increases, and their precipitability by various chemical agents, e.fi. saturation with neutral salts of the alkalies and magnesium, solutions of salts of the heavy metals, alcohol and strong mineral acids, diminishes. They also become more easily diffusible througli animal membranes. A chemical classification of the dift'ercnt pro- ducts of gastric digestion has been founded upon these differences of solubility and precipitability. This classification is of considerable theoretical interest; but on account of the complexity and time-consuming nature of the methods employed for the complete separation of the difterent pro- ducts, it has not, as yet, become of mucli importance in practical medicine. A very brief account of the most important facts must there- fore suf^ice. The final product of gastric digestion is called peptone. The bodies repre- senting the intermediate stages between it and acid albumin are called albumoses (or proteoses). The albumoses are all precipitable by saturation with ammonium sulphate, whereas pejDtone is not precipitable by this salt. Certain of the allnnnoses are al.so precipitable by satura- tion with sodium chloride or magnesium sulphate in neutral solution, and these have been named 24