140 CHOROID, DISEASES OF i.s not necessarily absolute, as the retina may be present. The cause of the defect is probably due to the formation of adhesions between the developing retina and the mesoblast, the latter of which is not difterentiated into choroid and sclerotic. This usually takes place in the position of the retinal fissure, and thus accounts for the usual position of the coloboma. It may, however, take place in any part of the retina ; hence the occasional occurrence of the coloboma elsewhere. Albinism, or congenital absence of pigment throughout the body, may be relative or absolute. In absolute albinism the pupils and irides appear pink from the reflected light from the choroid, the irides also on account of the blood contained in their vessels. This con- dition is usually attended with defective visual acuity, photophobia, and nystagmus. Upon ophthalmoscopic examination, the choroidal vessels are seen most distinctly as a pink fenestrated membrane upon a pale, almost white, background. The hair is usually white throughout the body. In relative albinism, the hair is a pale straw colour; the irides present a pale purplish colour, and do not completely shut off the choroidal reflex ; the symptoms also are less marked. There is a tendency to acquire pigment as the child grows; the improvement, however, is rarely more than a change from the absolute to the relative condition. By way of treatment, any existing error of refraction must be corrected ; dark glasses should be worn, with or without a diaphragm, to cut off some of the light. Peripheral tattooing of the cornea has been performed for the same object. Congenital crescent is a peculiar greyish white crescentic patch immediately below or, in rarer instances, to the outer side of the optic disc. The disc, excluding the crescent, is usually oval, but with it appears circular or slightly oval in the opposite direction. These crescents present no marginal pigment, which is so often seen in myopic crescents; besides, the latter are usually to the outer side of the disc. It is very probable that this crescent is a partial coloboma of the choroid. Choroiditis. — Inflammation of the choroid is accompanied by infiltration and exudation, which may be reabsorbed with or without atrophic changes, or may pass into the stage of suppuration. If the morbid process be limited to the choroid proper, it is frequently unattended by external signs of inflammation, being recog- nised chiefly by visual troubles and ophthalmo- scopic appearances. When the other portions of the uveal tract—the ciliary body and iris—• are involved in the process, as is usually the case in acute and suppurative forms, the ex- ternal signs of these inflammations are always present. The two chief varieties of choroiditis are plastic or exudative choroiditis and suppura- tive choroiditis. Besides these, we have forms of choroiditis accompanied by inflammation of neighbouring parts; these are—irido-choroiditis, retino-choroiditis, and sclerotico-choroiditis. Plastic OR Exudative Choroiditis.—Etiology. —The most common cause is syphilis, inherited or acquired. In the acquired form it usually occurs towards the end of the first year after the primary infection, or during the begin- ning of the second year. Inherited syphilitic choroiditis is commonest between the ages of six months and three years; it may occur, how- ever, much later together with interstitial keratitis. Other causes of plastic choroiditis are tuberculosis, gonorrhoea, the simple and profound anaemias, and menstrual disorders. Many chronic cases occur to which no definite cause can be assigned. Symptoms.—Plastic choroiditis is the most common form, and presents itself under several forms, the symptoms varying with the extent of the area affected, and with its position with regard to the macular region. When unattended with cyclitis or iritis there are no external signs of the disease. Subjective symptoms are usually the earlier and more important indications of the disease, but they may be completely absent although the ophthalmoscope shows gross changes. The patient complains of seeing lights of a pale blue or red colour—phosphenes —at night, when the eyes are closed and the room is dark. In the daylight he sees large floating specks, especially when looking at a white object; these are larger than the ordinary muscse volitantes, and tend to obscure the vision by settling upon one portion of the object looked at. Distortion of the outline of objects—meta- morphosia — is also a characteristic feature, especially when the exudative change is situated in the macular region ; if pai-allel straight lines are held before the eye they will appear curved in various ways. Micropsia—objects appearing smaller than normal—and macrop>sia—objects appearing too large—are symptoms sometimes present. The patient may complain of dark spots in the visual field—positive scotomata,—or these may only be found by carefully testing the field with the perimeter—negative scotomata. It will then be found that its whole area is not intact, but that, according to the position and extent of the disease, there will be small and large areas in which vision is either defective or altogether absent—relative or absolute scotomata. The light sense is also appreciably diminished, especially when there is cloudiness of the vitreous. In some cases the patient will com- ])lain of a dull aching pain at the back of the eyes. Ophthalmoscopic Signs. — Recent patches of choroiditis appear as yellowish, ill-defined areas, lying beneath the retinal vessels upon and in the red background of the choroid. These patches may be more or less obscured by a hajmorrhage from a choroidal vessel, this being sometimes the earliest sign of the disease. The yellow exudation may entirely disappear after