329 DIABETES MELLITUS are not uncommon in diabetcis. The most im- portant affection is cataract (9 per cent of cases). It is usually bilateral, and occurs in young patients as well as in the aged. It is generally of the soft variety, but not invariably. Defects of vision are also caused by paresis of accommodation, shortsightedness developing late in life, vitreous opacities, retinitis, and amblyopia. Diabetic retinitis is ver^' rai'e (seven cases in 100). It only occurs in patients over the age of 40. In one form of diabetic i-etinitis the changes con- sist of small punctiform luDmorrhages scattered over the retina. In another form the changes consist chiefly of small white patches chiefly near the centre of the retina. These white patches have a "curdy" ajjpearance, and are sometimes clustered together in the form of a semicircle or incomplete circle surrounding the yellow spot; tliey are never grouped in a star-shaped form radiating from the yellow spot as in albuminuric retinitis. Occasionally diabetic patients sufter from amblyopia with defect of vision chiefly in the centre of the field and with central scotomata forcolours. Oj^hthalmoscopicexamination reveals no changes in the disc or retina, and the condi- tion resembles tobacco amblyopia. Sexual Functions.—In the male, diminution or loss of sexual power is not infrequent. In females the sexual desire is said to be diminished greatly in severe cases, whilst in the mild forms of the disease in elderly women it is said to be increased. Amenorrhoca sometimes occurs at an early stage. Pregnant diabetic women often abort, and during pregnancy and the puerperal state the disease often advances markedly. Nervous System.—Mental dulness and drowsi- ness are frequent. Often the patient is melan- cholic and depressed, but as a rule the intellect remains clear up to the last. The writer has recorded two cases in which changes were present in the posterior columns of the cord in diabetic patients. In both cases the changes were seen clearly with the naked eye. After hardening in Midler's fluid the degenerated tracts were paler in colour than the rest of the white matter; in both cases they occupied Goll's cohnuns in tlie cervical region ; they extended into Burdach's columns in the dorsal region in one case, in the lumbar region in the other. Microscopically the changes were much less distinct, and consisted in slight degeneration of the fibi-es of the pos- terior columns. Probably they were tlie result of the diabetic blood condition. Similar changes have been recorded by several observers. Crai/ips in the calves of the legs at night are common in diabetes, and are sometimes amongst the eai'liest sj-mptoms of the disease. The patient may also complain of gnawing pains in the legs, which may be so tender that he cannot bear one leg to lie over the other in bed. The legs may feel numb, and the knee-jerks in such cases arc often absent. These symptoms are probabl}' due to slight j)eripheral neuritis. Occasionally, but very rarely, there are well-marked symp- toms of peripheral neuritis — the feet Vjcing "dropped" and the legs paralysed, and sensory symptoms being jiresont as in ordinary alcoholic neuritis. Cases are on record of monoplegia and of paralysis of single groups of muscles which are probal)ly of neiu-otic origin. A small number of cases have been puljlished in which pathological examination has verified the diagnosis of peripheral neuritis (parenchy- matous form). In most of the cases recorded the neuritis has occurred in patients over the age of 50, and this complication does not bear any relation to the amount of sugar in the urine. The hiee-jerlis are not infrequently lost in diabetic patients, and in such cases there are sometimes slight signs of neuritis (gnawing- pains in the legs, tenderness, and cramps in the calf muscles); very rarely there are marked signs of p^rljjheral nem-itis. But frequently when the knee-jerks are lost there are no other indications of neuritis, and pathological exam- ination may reveal no changes in the pei-ipheral nerves. Amongst 100 diabetic hospital patients the writer found the knee-jerks both lost in 49, both present in 45, one present, one absent in 6. Most of these patients sufl'ered from a very severe form of the disease, with great wasting. In private practice, where most of the mild forms and early cases are met with, the knee- jerks are only lost in a small proportion of cases. The knee-jerks when present at an early period are frequently lost later. During the last few days of life the writer found the knee-jerks lost in 73 jier cent of hospital cases, and they were lost in 20 out of 23 cases of diabetic coma. In the severe forms of the disease, when the knee- jerks have been absent, the writer has usually found the wrist-jerks also absent. But the superficial reflexes — plantar, abdominal, and epigastric — are generally readily obtained or inci'eased, even when the knee and wrist jerks are absent. Diabetic Coma. — The most frequent ter- niination of diabetes is in coma, which is not dependent on any gross lesion of the organs. When advanced phthisis is present as a com- plication, usually coma does not occiu', but to this nile there are exceptions. Diabetic coma may occur in all forms of the disease and at all ages, but it is especially common in yoinig patients and in the severe forms. Coma may develop at a \Gry early date after the onset of diabetes, especially in young people (few weeks or months), or it may only occur after the disease has been present for years. Coma has frequently developed directly after a long railway journey. Great muscular exertion, great mental worry and anxiety arc also exciting causes. A sudden change of diet and a very rigid diet are thought by many (Ebstcin, Xaunyn, Schmitz, Grube, etc.) to