DEFOR anticiis and po^sticus may lie treated by trans- plantation of the extensor proprius pollicis into the tiliiahs anticus and a piece of the flexor longus digitoruni tendon into the tibialis posti- cus. On similar lines talipes varus may be treated. As to the actual method of procedure, the operation re(juires that the parts should be absolutely aseptic. The tendons to be operated upon are exposed, and their sheaths freely opened in such a way that the tendon of the reinforcing muscle can be applied easily to the paralysed muscle. Taking, e.g., the fixing of the peroneus longus to the tendo Achillis, the sheaths of the peronei and of the tendo Achillis are freely opened up and a considerable portion of the peroneus longus tendon is detached. It is then divided across just above the malleoli and passed to the under surface of the tendo Achillis nearly opposite the ankle-joint, the tendo Achillis having been previously split longitudinally at this spot. The jaroximal end of the peroneus longus tendon is drawn through it and split somewhat, and the ends attached to the posterior surface of the tendo Achillis by being sewn down with silk or some other material. The proximal part of the tendon of the reinforcing muscle should be pulled quite tightly, and in- serted at such a spot in the tendon of the paralysed muscle that the former, when it is fixed, is at its utmost possilile tension. The wound is then allowed to heal and the strength of the reinforcing muscles is subsequently in- creased by massage and galvanism. Hand and Fingers Congenital Deformities. — These comprise club-h<i)ul, congenital Cfmtraction of the Jingerg, supernumerary fingers or polydactylism, m2)- pression of the fingers, ■trebfi.ngers or syndactyl- ism, hypertrophy of the fingers, congenital lateral deviation of the fingers. Cluh-IIand.—This is a very rare deformity, and there are comparatively few cases recorded in literature. In most cases the child is both premature and still-born. The forms of club- hand are as follows, and it should be remem- bered that the hand may deviate either to the outer or inner border of the forearm, or be in a position of flexion or extension. Hence we have radial and ulnar club-hand and palmar and dorsal, so that there are the radio-palmar, radio - dorsal, ulnar - palmar, and ulnar - dorsal. In the palmar cases the hand forms with the forearm a more or less acute angle open an- teriorly. The lower end of the radius is pro- minent posteriorly, and the carpus articulates with the anterior surface of the radius. There is generally some degree of mobility of the hand on the forearm. It is small and wasted owing to the shrinkage of nuiscles and the absence of some parts of the bones. Treatment.—The means which are adopted to alleviate the deformity are passive movements, MITIES 28.3 massage, the use of retentive apparatus, teno- tomy, and operations on the bones. In any case the result is not very satisfactory. Co7igenital Contraction of Fingers. — This deformity is quite distinct from contraction of the palmar fascia known as Dupuytren's con- traction, and should not be confused with it. The aftection is generally limited to the fifth finger, but at times the ring finger and even all the fingers are contracted. It is often associ- ated with congenital hammer-toe, and in that event the second toe is the one xisually affected. Some contraction of the finger is frequently met with, but it is only when it gives rise to pain and annoyance that any notice should be taken of it. In congenital contraction the first phalanx is usually hyper - extended, and the second and third are flexed, in contradistinction to Dupuytren's contraction, in which the first and second are flexed and the third is generally extended. If the deformity is left unrectified, contraction of the skin and fascia and of the lateral ligaments of the inter-phalangeal articula- tions takes place. But the contracted fascia never extends up into the palm as in Dupuytren's contraction. Treatment.—In the milder degrees it is suf- ficient to straighten the affected fingers by frequent passive movements, and to maintain the correction by the use of a small malleable iron splint adapted to the dorsal surface of the fingers. This often suffices to remove the de- formity. Should it fail to do so, the contracted fascial bands may be divided and the finger put up in a suitable splint. Unfoi'tunately these cases have a strong tendency to relapse, and it is well to warn the patient that after a finger has been straightened a long coiu'se of mechanical treatment is necessary to maintain the improve- ment. F'or this purpose the appai'atus similar to that used after operation for Dupuytren's cf)ntraction must ])e worn day and night for three months. Sujierimmerary Fingers — Foli/'lactylis/i/. — There ai-e five varieties of polydactylism. (1) An additional finger is more or less developed, generally on the ulnar border of the hand, being attached to it by a narrow pedicle. (2) An additional thumb is more or less developed. {'A) A supernumerary digit more or less perfect is closely united throughout its whole length to another digit. (4) A completely developed extra digit is formed, and possesses its own separate fmictions and tendons. (5) The l)i- furcated hand which has eight fingers and no thumbs. Treattiient.—In the first variety the additional digit should be removed early in life. In the second variety removal is indicated too. As to the third variety the propriety of operation is doubtful. In the fourth variety it is advisable not to interfere, and the fifth admits of no treat- ment.