381 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM of proteid taken up from the blood (circulating proteid) for the regeneration of the tissues. It is exceedingly difficult—one may say impossible —at present to follow out tlie changes which the proteids undergo in their decomposition. The end-products of their metabolism are well known, but the first katabolic changes which they \mder- go in the cell protoplasm we can only siu-mise. Ih-ea is the principal nitrogenous end-product in mammals, while in birds uric acid takes its place. In both cases ammonia salts play an important part as forerunners of these end-products. When blood containing ammonium saltsof formic, acetic, or lactic acid circulates through a fresh liver, urea is formed in appreciable quantity. Here, in all probability by a process of oxidation and syn- thesis, ammonium carbonate is formed, then, by loss of water, ammonimn carbamate, and finally urea. It is probable that one of the most im- portant non-nitrogenous decomposition pi'oducts of proteid metabolism is sarcolactic acid, which becomes distinctly increased in the blood after proteids have been taken in the food, and falls correspondingly in conditions of hunger. This acid seems to be formed in most organs, e.g. lungs, kidneys, etc., when blood is transfused through them, and its percentage in muscle rises during exercise. Its ammonium salt is transformed into urea in the liver. If oxidation ]jrocesses be hindered in any way, there is an increased formation and excretion of this acid. There are many other derivatives of proteid metabolism, e.g. glycocoll, acetone, etc., which may appear in the urine as such or in combina- tion with other substances {see " Urine "). The sulphur and phosphorus present in certain proteids are in large part oxidised to their full extent and excreted as simple or paired sulphates and as phosphates {see " Urine "). Absorption and Metabolism of Carbo- hydrates. — Under ordinary conditions the glucose is only taken up by the blood capil- laries, but if there be a great excess of sugar in the intestine, some may also pass into the lactcals. Even after a diet comparatively rich in carbohydrates, the amount of glucose in the lymph flowing from the thoracic duct shows no increase, while the blood in the portal vein shows a rise from the normal, O-ll per cent, to about 0-4 per cent. In order to prevent the loss of such an easily diffusible substance, the liver acts as a stoi'ehouse for the glucose, trans- forming it first of all into a less soluble form, glycogen, and giving it out again to the blood in the form of glucose when the percentage of the latter in the blood tends to fall below normal. By excluding carbohydrates from the diet one can gradually lower the amount of glycogen in the liver ; while if one inject glucose into the blood of an animal whose liver has been rendered free from glycogen, the percentage of the latter in the liver can gradually be raised. It seems probable that these transformations of glucose into glycogen and glycogen into glucose are the results of the activity of the liver cells, and not of the action of an enzyme produced by the latter. The muscles and many other tissues can effect this dehydration and polymerisation of glucose into glycogen as well as the liver. In fact, glycogen seems to be present at least in every living cell at some stage or other in its life-history. The muscles seem to store glyco- gen before the liver does, and they certainly retain it longer. Thus it is possible to exhaust the liver while the muscles still contain a fairly large quantity. In frogs the muscles can also store up glycogen even when the liver has been removed. One may say that approximately 1-50 grammes of the sugar that has been absorl^ed by the intestine are stored up as glycogen in the liver, and a slightly larger quantity in the muscles and other tissues of the body. When a larger quantity of carbohydrate is absorbed, then the liver and muscles would in all prob- ability be unable to convert the excess into glycogen, and the percentage of glucose in the blood might rise to such a height (over 0-3 per cent) that the kidneys could no longer retain it, and the condition of glycosuria would result. But it is probable that there is another reason for temporary alimentary glycosuria in healthy individuals. In cases where large quantities of carbohydrate have been taken with a free supply of liquids, absorption may take place by way of the lacteals, and the sugar may reach the general circulation without passing through the liver. The percentage in the blood in such a case may be so high that temporary glycosuria results. When very large quantities of disac- charides, such as cane or milk sugar, are taken, some may escape inversion in the intestine and be excreted unchanged in the urine. One must remember, however, that the bowels may act as a safety-valve for the removal of the excess of sugar, diarrhea being set up by the intestinal irritation. Proteids may also act as a source of glycogen, so that even when no carbohydrates are given in the food, a liver which has been rendered free from glj^cogen can store it up again if sufficient proteid be given in the food. It is important also to remember that the glycogen may accumulate in the liver from the action of substances which prevent the liver cells transforming it into glucose, e.g. glycerine, antipyrin, chloral, etc. Inversion of the disac- charides is necessary before they can be trans- formed into glycogen. The sugar circulating in the blood is normally oxidised by the tissues, furnishing finally carbonic acid and water, and in this action tlie muscles play an important part, as the glucose is the chief source of mus- cular energy. When this action of the tissues does not come into play, the percentage of glucose in the blood rises until the kidneys can no longer refrain from exci-cting it {see " Diabetes"). The influence of the nervous