CHLOROSIS 112 times difficult to be certain in these cases whether the murmur is due entirely to chlorotic dilatation or to pre-existing valvular disease. The history and the blood examination generally help us, and the result of treatment usually removes all doubt, as chlorotic dilatation is eminently curable. Arterial murmurs are sometimes heard at a distance from the heart, but not with sufficient constancy to be characteristic. The venous murmurs are heard most easily in the jugular veins, at the root of the neck, especially on the right side. This hruit de diable, or venous hum, is continuous, though it differs in intensity from various causes. Its causation is usually ascribed to the fact tliat, while the upper part of the vein is free, and able to collapse if ill-filled, or if it shares in the general want of tone of the vascular system, the lower part is kept distended by its attachments to the cervical fascia. In the passage of the blood from a narrower to a wider space we have one of the typical conditions for the production of a murmur, which is con- tinuous because of the continuous flow of blood in the veins. A murmur of the same character may sometimes be heard over the eyeball, over the occipital protuberance, and elsewhere. The venous hum, though not confined to chlorosis, is very characteristic of it. Pulsation is often to be seen and felt in the episternal notch, in the pulmonary area, over the area of the right ventricle, and in the epi- gastrium. From what has been said of the state of the heart and vessels its causation in each case will be evident. Course and Prognosis. — Cases vary very much in their rapidity of onset. In some the disease develops in a few days, but in the great majority its incipient stages extend over two or three weeks, or even over a much longer period. Generally speaking, cases with an acute com- mencement recover quickly ; those with a chronic commencement take much longer to get well. But all cases, acute or chronic, show a marked tendency to recurrence. This is largely to be explained by the fact that it is very difficult to persuade chlorotics to persevere with treatment until they have thoroughly regained their health. They are accustomed to a condition of health which is short of robustness, and there is often so marked an improvement after a short course of iron that they are satisfied with it, and drift out of observation. I have seen patients with a hsemoglobin percentage of 50 declare themselves quite recovered, and resent the idea of further treatment. The result is a recurrence in a short time, and these cases often become quite chronic, for relapses do not yield so well to iron as primary attacks. On the other hand, patients who will submit to treatment usually recover completely, and are not nearly so liable to re- lapses as imperfectly recovered cases. It is, of course, of great importance to impress upon patients the necessity of complete recovery, for patients suffering from chlorosis are in a poor condition to resist acute intercurrent diseases; they are liable to the development of gastric ulcer, and if the disease is allowed to become chronic, though the antemia may pass off in after years, it leaves its mark in a state of weakened vitality, and often leads to a condition of chronic invalidism. Diagnosis. — The points on which stress should be laid are—the sex and age, the appar- ently causeless development of the disease, the history and general appearance of the patient, the character of the anaemia on examination of the blood, especially the disproportionate diminution of haemoglobin, and the success of treatment with iron. Difficulty may arise in cases where one or other set of symptoms of the disease is unusually prominent; the gastric and cardiac symptoms, and those associated with the generative organs, being most likely to cause error, and it is of course not unusual to find chlorosis in patients who are suffering from organic heart disease, from tuberculosis, or other chronic maladies. From other conditions causing anaemia the differential diagnosis should be made on the following lines :— (1) Pernicious Anaemia {see "Anaemia, Per- nicious ").—It is comparatively seldom that it is necessary to make this diagnosis, as it is very rarely that the anaemia in chlorosis is so grave as to give rise to the suspicion of the other disease. (2) Leucocythaemia.—The examination of the blood at once removes doubt. (3) AncBmia from Intestinal Parasites.—The type of anaemia is rather that of pernicious anaemia. Where the blood examination leaves any doubt the fteces should be examined for the eggs of the parasites. (4) Anaemia from Malignant Disease.—The type of anaemia is very often chlorotic in malig- nant disease; but though, of course, malignant disease is not specially common in young girls without causing definite symptoms, it may occur, and sometimes does give rise to difficulty. Leucocytosis is much more common in malig- nant disease, nucleated red corpuscles are more common and more numerous than in chlorosis, and the effect of treatment usually clears up the difficulty. (5) Tiiherculosis.—Nothing is more common than to find early cases of phthisis and other forms of tuberculosis taken for chlorosis, because the lungs, etc., have not been examined with sufficient care. The blood examination gives very similar results, and careful investigation of the history, repeated examination of the sputum, lungs, glands, etc., must be made. The temperature is not always helpful, for early tubercle does not always cause fever, and in chlorosis the temperature is sometimes raised. In very difficult or important cases it might be