DIET 358 Milk and its Products.—Cow's milk lias the following approximate composition :— Water . . . . 87 to 88 per cent. Proteid . . . . 2 to 3 Fat 3-Vto4* „ Sugar 4 to 5 Mineral matter . . 07 ,, It fluctuates so greatly in composition, however, that one does not know within 30 j^er cent how much nourishment he is ordering in prescribing a given quantity of milk to a patient daily. Fat is the most variable element of all, and is usually taken as the criterion by which to judge milk. Good milk should contain 4 per cent. The proteids of milk are caseinogen and lactal- bumin, there being about one part of the former to seven of the latter in the milk of the cow. Caseinogen is a pseudo-nucleoalbumin. It yields no uric acid bodies, and no sugar on hydrolysis. This gives it a special value in gout and diabetes. Pure caseinogen is now prepai-ed in the form of a flour (by the Protene Co.), and used in the preparation of diabetic bread and biscuits. " Nutrose" is caseinogen rendered soluble by being combined with soda. The sugar of milk or lactose has the advan- tage of not being very sweet. It may thus be added to milk and other liquids, e.g. lemonade, to increase their nutritive value. Such addition is useful in the case of patients who are suff'ering from acute disease and are unable to swallow large quantities of nourishment. It is not fermented by yeasts, and may therefoi'e be of no use in cases of dilated stomach, but is readily changed into lactic acid by certain micro- organisms, and in that form is a common cause of diarrhoea in infancy. The chief mineral matter in milk is calcium, one litre of it containing about a gramme and a half of lime. Some of the calcium is combined with citric acid, the rest occurs as phosphate. Milk contains very little iron, four or five pints being required to yield the amoinit of iron (10 milligrammes) required daily. The germs which are so apt to be contained in milk can most easily be killed by boiling. Pasteurisation—which consists in keeping the milk at a temperature of 70° Cent, for twenty minutes—is sufficient to kill most disease germs, but does not destroy all spores nor the lactic- acid producing bacteria. It has the advantage of not affecting the taste of the milk. It may be carried out by placing the milk in stoppered bottles, and setting these in a deep sauce- pan of water heated to the necessary tempera- ture. The digestibility of milk is interfered with by the dense clot which it forms in the stomach. The density of the clot depends on (1) the amount of the casein; (2) the degree of acidity of the stomach contents; (3) the quantity of lime salts present. AH of these factors have their influence lessened by dilution. Water may be employed for the purpose, but barley-water or lime-water is better. The former acts me- chanically by entangling the particles of casein. Lime-water seems to have a specific power of preventing clotting apart from its alkalinity. One part to two of milk is sufficient to ensure a loose clot. A pint of raw milk remains about 3-| hours in the stomach, sour or skimmed milk about 3 hours, and boiled milk about 4 hours. Milk is not very completely absorbed. When it constitutes the sole diet only about 90 per cent of its potential energy is really available. Thus it leaves a larger residue in the intestine than many other foods (see Table, p. 355). Children absorb it better than adults. Boiled milk is not quite so well absorbed as raw. The nutritive value of milk is high, but about 9 pints of it would be required daily by a man doing moderate work ; 4 to 5 pints, however, are sufficient to maintain the nuti-ition of a sick person lying in bed. It contains too much water and too much proteid and fat in propor- tion to its carbohydrate, and is too expen- sive to justify one in regarding it as a perfect food. Cream contains relatively much more fat than milk, but the actual amount varies greatly from 12 or 15 per cent in ordinary cream, up to 40 per cent or more in thick or separated cream. It contains as much sugar and proteid as a similar quantity of milk. Butter has about 80 per cent of fat and a small amount of proteid, the remainder being water. Margarine, which is made from the more oily constituents of animal fat, has almost the same chemical composition, and is practically equal to butter in nutritive value. Koumiss is produced from mare's milk by a combined lactic and vinous fermentation. Kephir is a similar product prepared from the milk of the cow. In both the caseinogen is thrown down in a finely flocculent, and therefore easily digested, form, and is also partly peptonised; most of the sugar is converted into lactic acid, and a small amount of alcohol and a large pro- portion of carbonic acid gas produced. Three and a half quarts (a daily allowance) of koumiss yield 140 gms. of proteid, 80 of fat, and 140 of sugar, with a combined fuel value of 1918 Calories. These preparations present milk in its most easily digested form, and owing to the destruction of much of the lactose, are better in some cases of diabetes than ordinary milk. Cheese consists of the casein and fat of milk, modified by the growth in it of various micro- organisms, to the bye-pi'oducts produced by which the diff'erent varieties of cheese owe their distinctive flavour. The composition of the common cheeses is shown in the following table :—-