CATARACT 63 cataract. All that is necessary to make the ditt'erential diagnosis is the dioptric test with the ophthalmoscoiaic mirror. When no cataract exists, the fundus reflex, so far as the lens goes, is seen undisturbed throughout. Senile cataract is mostly met with in both eyes. Often the condition first begins in the one eye alone. The first appearances are only seen with the ophthalmoscope and with the pupil dilated. They are generally those of radiating peripheral intransparencies, the so-called striw. The stage of perijjheral strife may last for many years without appreciably advancing. Generally, how- ever, the stripe become continually more numerous, larger, and confluent. Only small chinks of clear cortex then remain. Often this gives rise to a multiplicationof the imagesof objects seen—what is called^w/yo/jyVf. Wometimes, however, the vision remains amazingly good, though the changes are often accompanied by alterations in the optical condition of the eye. Weaker reading glasses are then often used, and the distant vision is improved, it may be by concave glasses, or if previously convex ones have been required, they may no longer be necessary. The further confluence of the separate areas of intransparency leads to the whole of the cortex being involved, and then generally pretty soon to the cataract becoming ripe. The j^eriod occupied in ripening, however, varies very much. As a rule, from the time the stri;e first become evident till the whole cortex is intranspai-ent, there is an interval of time of from two to three years. But there are frequent exceptions to this, and mostly in thedirection of a prolongation of the period of development. It is therefore not safe in any given case to venture upon too definite a prognosis as to the date when the cataract will be ripe. There is often a very serious degree of blindness long before the cataract is ripe. The bearing of this fact upon the question of treatment is after- wards considered. The stage at which operation for cataract is most satisfactory is the stage of ripeness. Inter- ference is on the whole less satisfactory before this stage has been arrived at, and still less satisfactory when there is any marked degree of over-ripeness. The most important point which has to he in- quired into in the case of a ripe cataract is as to whether or Hot the cataract is uncomplicated. A ripe cataract, whilst it leads to the loss of any sense of form, so that surromiding objects are not seen, does not materially interfere with the sense of light. Conse(piently an individual with a ripe cortical cataract has a good appreciation of differences in degree of illumination. The light from an ordinary candle flame in a dark room can be seen, and the difference at once recognised when it is shaded by the observer holding his hand in front of it, so as to prevent its rays falling on the patient's eye, or the difference caused in illumination by reflecting into the patient's eye the light of a gas jet turned down to almost its lowest point and then remov- ing the reflection is at once appreciated. One circumstance, then, which would cause one to infer that the eye was otherwise healthy, not- withstanding the existence of a ripe cataract, would be the possession of a keen perception of light. On the other hand, a defective light sense must cause susjaicion of deeper disease. When the light sense is very defective there can be no doubt of the existence of complication. And this is, of course, still more the case when the patient is unable at all to distinguish light from darkness. This condition is a complete contra- indication to operation, as no sight could then be restored by removing the cataract. Another point which has to be tested is in the cataractous eye called the 2^'^'ojection. Al- though unable to distinguish ordinary objects, an individual with ripe cataract, if the eye be otherwise healthy, should nevertheless have a fair idea of the direction from which a bright light comes. Thus the direction of a candle flame in a dark room, held close to him above or below or to either side of the face, can be made out. Although the intransparent lens is not capable of forming sharp images, it is able, even in cases of ripe cataract, to so far collect the rays, whilst scattering most, that a maxinium illumination of the retina takes places in and around the place at which, under normal con- ditions, the image of the flame would be formed. Congenital Cataract.—In addition to the forms of cataract already enumerated, there is a whole series of juvenile and congenital cataracts. These may be complete or partial, cortical or nuclear. It is most important to recognise and to treat congenital cataracts as early as jjossible if they are either complete or so extensive and dense as to cause a serious impediment to vision. If they are not removed within the first few months after birth, the resulting vision is rarely good. Cata- ract developing in eyes which have once acquired good sight may remain for an indefinite period without interfering with the possibility of sight being restored on its removal. The immediate result of a successful operation in such cases is in fact the complete restoration of the sight, even if the cataract may have been there for forty years or more. There is no amblyopia from disuse. It is otherwise, however, where the early development through practice, which is necessary for the perfecting of the eye as a seeing instrument, has been rendered impossible. Later operation will admit of a certain degree of sight being acquired. But the acquiring of sight under these conditions is a slow, laborious process, requiring often much training. It always stops short of perfection — often much short of it. Operations in tlie early months of life give the best chance. The necessity for