DERMATITIS HERPETIFORMIS 308 R Ichthyol. Camphoris, aa gr. x. Olei amygdalfe dulcis, Adipis lanse, 3]. Misce. Fiat unguentum. In the erythematous form, when few or no vesicles are present, dressings soaked in the following are useful:— Resorcin, gr. vij. Glycerini, ll\_xx. Spiritus coloniensis, 3ij. Spiritum vini rectificati, ad oj- Misce. Fiat lotio. The writer has found nothing more usefvil than weak lead, tar, carbolic or naphthol lotions, but sometimes oily applications containing these drugs are more grateful to the patient. Dermatitis Repens.—Definition. — A spreading dermatitis, usually following in- juries and commencing almost exclusively in the iipper extremities. There is generally a history of an injury to the skin of some part of the hand, though often the injury may be so trivial that its occurrence may have to be carefully inquired for. Vesicles or a bulla develop and rupture, resulting in complete denudation of all the upper layers of the epidermis, the surface being intensely red, and oozing a clear or turbid fluid from numerous points on the surface. The denudation extends peripherally by the epidermis at the border, being undermined and raised up by exudation, forming a sodden ragged collar which can be readily cut away, but nevertheless extension con- tinues, and the disease may travel all up the first affected limb or stop short at any point. Less frequently it extends across the trunk to the other extremity or rarely all over the body. The parts first aff'ected may heal slowly, leaving the skin intensely red and tender. The ex- tension may be very slow—\ to \ of an inch a week—and drag on for many months and even for years, or the extension may be at a much more rapid rate. The sensory symptoms are burning and tension rather than itching, and after healing great and persistent tenderness. A closely allied condition, if not a mere variant of it, are the cases described by Hallo- peau, under the title "Acrodermite continue," and by Freche and Stowers, who acknowledge their resemblance and alliance to dermatitis repens, while Hallopeau considers them separate aflections. The actiial lesions of the skin on the extremities are practically identical, but Hallopeau attaches importance to the following differences. In Dermatitis repens the disease, if it extends beyond the hands, does so by direct extension of the border, while in Acrodermatitis it is by the formation of fresh foci, and the large areas are formed by their coalescence. In acrodermatitis there is no permanent healing of the older diseased areas, and the cases go on for years with little or no improve- ment. The nails are damaged and may be shed, and the oral mucous membrane may be affected. An antecedent injury has been present in some but not all of the cases. Pathogemj. — The theory most consonant with the clinical facts is that there is a peripheral neuritis with secondary microbic invasion of the damaged area, but Hallopeau only admits the microbic origin of acrodermatitis. Diagnosis.—Eczema is the disease for which dermatitis repens was mistaken until differ- entiated by the author. The differences are the extension at the periphery by the constant fluid exudation under the border, which forms a well - defined margin; the persistence of the lesions for long periods with slow but constant extension, and the difficulty of healing the denuded surface as well as of checking extension, and the rarity of the formation of fresh foci of disease far away from the original area. Further, for a long time the affection is limited to one extremity. Treatment.—The disease is very refractory to treatment, which need only be local. The most successful plan has been to cut away the under- mined epidermis border and paint once a day for ten days with a 10 per cent solution of permanganate of potash. The constant appli- cation of lint soaked in lactate of lead lotion (Liq. Plumbi Subacet. 5j-) Lactis gij.) has also been successful. Hallopeau paints with a strong solution of nitrate of silver, but the author has not had a good result with this, and Hallopeau has only had amelioration and never a definite cure. Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata, General Considerations . . . 308 Causal Agents 309- Inflammatory Forms .... 310 Special Eruptions . . . . .312" Feigned Eruptions . . . .313 Cases of dermatitis from these causes arise from one of three circumstances:—(1) From the pursuance of some employment which ex- poses the patient to the action of the noxious agent; (2) From the accidental exposure of the patient to some such agent; (3) Feigned eruptions. Putting aside for one moment those sub- stances which are such powerful irritants or corrosives as to cause a practically immediate destruction of all tissues with which they come into contact, there are some points of interest common to nearly all the irritants of the skin as regards their action in producing a dermatitis. The fii'st peculiar point in connection with occupation or accidental dermatitis is the vary- ing degree of susceptibility found in different