388 DIPHTHERIA between the affected and the healthy, either directly as in such an act as kissing, or perhaps more often indirectly by means of utensils for eating and drinking, handkerchiefs, toys, etc. The infection may be harboured for a consider- able time in such articles as wearing apparel and toys. It is not often conveyed by third persons. There are now on record several epidemics of diphtheria in which it has been clearly proved that the infection was conveyed in milk. In some instances the source of infection has not been traced ; in others the specific contamination has been derived from a human source during the collection and distribution of the milk; in a third group the infected milk has been obtained from cows that have been at the time the sub- jects of a disease of the udder, a febrile affection in which the local lesions consist of vesicles which pass on to pustules and ulcers. It was suggested by Power that the connection between this disease and the specific infection of the milk was more than accidental. Working at the subject experimentally, Klein found that in five out of ten milch cows inoculated in the shoulder with a virulent growth of diphtheria bacilli, there was produced after a few days an eruption on the teats and udders similar to that occurring naturally. The disease could be trans- ferred to calves by inoculation. In two out of the five cases diphtheria bacilli were obtained from the milk yielded by the animal, and in two the bacilli were shown to be present in the vesicles and pustules upon the udder. The experiments of Klein, so far as they go, corro- borate Power's hypothesis. It is true that the disease set up by Klein in the cow differs con- siderably from that met with in the human being, notably in the production of vesicles and pustules containing the specific organism in a region remote from the seat of inoculation. With respect to the two similar experiments on cows by Abbott (of Philadelphia) with negative results, it may be observed, firstly, that some of Klein's own experiments were also negative, and that the negative can hardly be allowed to weigh against the positive results; secondly, that Abbott did not observe the same conditions as those under which Klein worked. The specific bacillus has been found in milk presiimed to be the cause of an outbreak of diphtheria (Bowhill and Eyre), but it has not yet been demonstrated in the milk and in the lesions on the udder of a cow to which a definite epidemic has been traced. Besides its probable occurrence in cows, diph- theria certainly attacks cats; and instances have been recorded both where it has been communicated from the animal to man and from man to the animal. There is no instance of diphtheria having been conveyed by the water-supply; nor do faulty sanitary arrangements in connection with the remoA'al of sewage or refuse lead to out- breaks. There has been marked improvement made in the sanitary condition of this country during the past thirty years or so, which has resulted in a notable lessening in the prevalence of enteric fever, a disease which certainly goes with bad sanitation of the kind to which we have alluded ; yet diphtheria has become more rife during that period. But there is reason to believe that insanitary conditions may aggravate or possibly predispose to diphtheria, and in this way, therefore, thei'e may be said to be a connec- tion between the disease and its surroundings. School Influence. — When we remember that diphtheria is especially a disease of children, we might argue a priori, that the daily aggregation of numbers of such individuals would tend ta widen its prevalence. And as a matter of fact it has been shown by more than one observer (especially Thorne Thome and Power) that a local prevalence of the disease has been kept up by such aggregation. Not only is it that children catch the disease by being brought into contact with infected children at school,, but they go home and infect others who are not attending school. In some instances the closing of the school has markedly diminished the prevalence of diphtheria, and the reopening has increased it. In certain epidemics occurring in not very populous rural districts the school influence has not been difficult to trace, and cannot be gainsaid. But the question arises whether or not this influence is in operation over larger areas and for longer periods. It is not claimed by those who are most conversant with the problem that the marked increase of diphtheria in this country during recent years is entirely due to school influence but it is suggested that a considerable portion of it is. The two facts that are brought forward in favour of this view are as follows:—The Education Act was passed in 1870, and since that date there has been from time to time further legislation, which, while it has afforded greater facilities to those who are willing to send their children to the Board Schools, has brought more compulsion to bear upon those who are not. The age of compulsory attendance is from three to fifteen years. Making allowance- for changes due to other causes that can be fairly well ascertained, there has been since 1870 in London and in the provinces (including Wales) a greater increase in the mortality (per million living) at the age-period three to fifteen years than was to be expected, comparison being made with the age-periods under three and over fifteen, and with the years immediately preceding 1870. The other fact is that since the com- pulsory notification of diseases was introduced into London there has been a marked fall in the already rising notifications at the age-period three to fifteen soon after the commencement of the summer holiday (four weeks) of the School.