45 CACHEXIA Cancerous Cachexia.—By this is indicated the facial aspect and the general appearance of feebleness and loss of flesh met with in individuals who have been for some time suffering from can- cerous disease. In its marked forms the face is pale with a yellow or greenish-yellow tint, the cheeks hollow, the nose pointed, and the eyes sunken. Corresponding with the emaciation and muscu- lar weakness the movements of such patients are slow, and as the result of the more or less constant pain, and of the general organic sensation of unwellness and feebleness, the expression is sad and gloomy and betokens suffering. The colour of the skin in such cases is due to changes in the blood and skin pig- ment, and these in their turn are probably brought about by the resorption into the blood of the fluid secretion of the cancer cells. It is to be remembered, on the one hand, that the cancerous cachexia may be closely simulated by other morbid conditions, and, on the other, that cancer may be present and yet cause no cachexia. This latter might be explained on the ground that little or no pain is present, and that no resorption is taking place from the diseased mass. It would seem that the cachexia is usually most evident in cases of ulcerating cancer and in cancers affecting the stomach, intestine, and tongue. Malarial Cachexia. — By this is meant the changes which are apt to supervene in an indi- vidual who has suffered from one or more attacks of malarial fever, or, but to a less extent, who has been for long times exposed to malarial poison. It is associated specially with changes in the blood and spleen, but the liver, kidney, and nervous system are apt also to show morbid changes. The cachexia shows itself principally in the colour of the skin. It is pale, re- sembling in this respect ordinary antemia, but it often reveals a yellow aspect, which has been compared to that of old wax, or a brownish colour, which has been compared to that of gingerbread. With this the affected individual usually presents an aspect of marked feebleness, and shows a proneness to dropsy of the dependent parts. Metallic Cachexias.—Of these the lead and the mercurial are the examples which have received most attention. The lead is the only one which merits here detailed reference. This cachexia, which rapidly manifests itself in indi- viduals who have been exposed to the causes of lead poisoning, consists mainly in an alteration in the colour of the skin. This in its pallor resembles anemia, but differs from it in present- ing, along with the pallor, an appearance of what is best expressed by dirtiness, the result of the presence in the pale skin of minute particles of lead. In addition, the blue line along the softened gums, the fcetor of the breath, and the peculiar paralysis, etc., render its recogni- tion easy. Cachexia Africana. — African or Negro cachexia—the, result, perhaps, of dirt- eating among the African natives; cachexia aquosa; possibly the same disease as miner's antemia. CachexiafSaturnina. See Cachexia {Metallic). Cachexia Strumipriva.—A morbid state, allied to rnyxoedema ; operative myxoedema. iSee Thyroid Gland, Medical. Cacodyl. See Toxicology {Arsenic).— Cacodyl, or dicacodyl, or diarsentetramethylj exists as cacodyl oxide (AsjO(CH3)^) or Cadet's fuming liquid; it has a powerfully offensive odour; from it cacodylic acid is obtained by exposure to the air; there are also salts, such as sodium and ferric cacodylate, which are used medicinally; a salt somewhat analogous to^ sodium cacodylate is employed in medicine as arrhenal, and has tonic properties. CaCOetheS.—Cacoethes means literally a bad habit, or an ill-conditioned or even malignant state. The inveterate tramp, well known to workhouse authorities, is said to have the cacoethes amhulamli. CaCO^enesiS. — Abnormal formation,, such as is seen in teratological or pathological conditions. Cacopathia.—A severe malady of the^ mind (or body). CaCOSmia. — The perception of a bad odour, due either to its actual existence (foreign body in nose, disease of sinuses, etc.), or to a disorder of the olfactory nerve tract. See Nose,, Nasal Neuroses. CaCOthyinia.—A depressed mental con- dition, willi depravation of the morals. Cadaveric Rig^idity. See Medicine^ Forensic {Signs of Death, Rigor Mortis) ; Pebg- NANCY, Intra-Uterine DISEASES {Death of Fcetus^^ Rigor Mortis). Cadaverine. — A ptomaine (C^HjgNg) obtained from human remains in the later stages of decomposition; a liquid having a very dis- agreeable smell. See Immunity {Immunisation xvith Toxic Filtrates); Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Putrefaction of Fish); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Diaminuria). Cade, Oil of".—Juniper tar oil or Cadinmn is a viscid, oily liquid, with a tar-like smell, prepared by distillation of the wood of the Jumperus Oxyceclrus, and acting beneficially in such skin diseases as eczema, psoriasis, and pruritus. It is used as an ointment {e.g. melted with an equal part of yellow wax).