CHOROID, DISEASES OF 142 (5) Myopic choroiditis, see Sclerotica - chor- oiditis. Progjiosis of Plastic Choroiditis. ■—• Plastic choroiditis runs a chronic course; its worst feature is a tendency to recurrence. Many cases are so chronic that they extend over years without perceptible change ; while others present new spots of exudation from time to time, until the choroid is ultimately covered with atrophic patches. In bad cases the optic nerve and retina are involved, and partial or total blindness results. Vision, however, may be almost com- pletely restored so long as the macular region is free. Central changes, like peripheral, are attended with subsequent atrophy, which gives rise to permanent and absolute scotomata; consequently, direct vision becomes completely lost. Diffuse exudative choroiditis is invariably attended with gradual failure of sight until complete blindness ensues. Treatment of Plastic Choroiditis.—It is neces- sary to find out, if possible, the cause of the disease. A history of syphilis can often be elicited, and should the disease be active, mer- cury in some form must be administered, either with or without iodide of potassium ; the sub- conjunctival injection of mercury has been warmly advocated by various Continental sur- geons, and the discussion of this and other methods of treatment will be found under the head of " Iritis." Other constitutional causes require general treatment. Locally, if there is active inflammation, as shown by dull pain, diffuse vitreous haze, and fresh exudations, leeches applied to the temple, diaphoresis by hot-air baths or pilocarpine hypodermically in- jected, and profuse purges, are necessary. Counter - irritation by means of the Argyll- Robertson method frequently helps to clear up the condition. This consists in rubbing into the skin of both eyelids pure silver nitrate until vesication is produced. The eyes should be protected from the light by tinted glasses; they should be rested as much as possible, and no near work attempted. It may be necessary to atropinise the eyes to prevent accommoda- tion. Should there be no history of syphilis, it is in many cases still advisable to try the mercurials and iodides, as great improvement is often obtained by their use independent of any syphi- litic history. If the general health is run down it must be supported by a nutritious diet, regular outdoor exercise, and by the exhibition of tonics, such as iron, strychnine, quinine, etc.; local treatment must also be adopted as indi- cated above. It is advisable in most cases of choroiditis to avoid alcoholic stimulants. Suppurative Choroiditis is a diffuse suppura- tive inflammation of the choroid, and is always attended with suppurative irido-cyclitis. There is, in fact, a general inflammation of the tunica vasculosa, which usually spreads to the other tunics of the globe, and gives rise to that condi- tion known as panophthalmitis. Etiology. — The causes of suppurative chor- oiditis may be divided into three groups :— {a) Injury, of a penetrating nature, if septic infection by pyogenic matter is produced. Opera- tive measures on the eyeball, where due aseptic precautions have not been taken, may be placed under this category. {b) There may be an extension of an inflam- mation elsewhere, such as from a septic ulcer of the cornea. (c) Inflammation of the choroid may be the result of metastasis. Of metastatic choroiditis the most important is the puerperal form, occurring as a symptom of pyjjemia, usually in the second week after delivery. It is also occa- sionally found in ulcerative endocarditis, cerebro- spinal meningitis, and during the acute specific fevers. It is due to septic embolism of the retinal and choroidal vessels. The symptoms from the first are those of intense inflammation. The eyelids are red, swollen, and oodematous, so that it is with diffi- culty that the eye can be examined ; were it not for the absence of discharge, the condition might be mistaken for purulent conjvmctivitis. There is great chemosis and conjunctival injec- tion. The cornea is hazy and anaesthetic; the iris muddy and immovable, with a somewhat dilated pupil. The anterior chamber is shallow and often contains pus (Jiypopyon). There is slight proptosis, and the tension is somewhat raised. If the media are sufficiently clear the exudation into the vitreous can be seen as a yellowish reflex. As time goes on there may be a gradual sub- sidence of the symptoms, the proptosis diminishes, the inflammation subsides, the tension falls, and gradually a general shrinking of the whole globe {phthisis h'ulbi) occurs. In the acute form, how- ever, suppuration occurs, with marked constitu- tional symptoms. High fever, vomiting, and violent pains ensue; the proptosis increases, the lids become more swollen, until the eyeball gives way anteriorly, with escape of pus and disappearance of the acute symptoms. Pathology.—Suppurative irido - choroiditis is attended with suppurative retinitis; the vitreous also, participating in the progressive and de- structive inflammation (suppurative hyalitis), becomes destroyed and replaced by pus, and the eyeball is converted into an abscess-cavity. In such a state either the cornea will slough and the pus be discharged, or the pus will be- come inspissated by absorption of its liquor puris; in either case the globe will shrink. In many cases the exudation in the vitreous is more puriform than purulent, and the yellowish white reflex seen has a somewhat similar appearance to glioma retinae. Hence it has been termed pseudo-glioma. The puriform exudation often undergoes partial organisation, and so the