DRUG ERUPTIONS 429 the foci of greatest infliunmation are situated somewhat superficially in the skin, where they congregate into microscopic abscesses. That these may burst into the follicles and so appear on the surface is of course possible, but in the multitude of cases examined such an accidental communication has never been found. It is therefore highly probable that the causation of the pustular surface lesions is not to be met with in the glands ; and, moreover, the absence of iodine from their contents in the great majority of cases is strongly against the pre- sumption of such a relationship. So far as present observations lead us, it seems safer to regard the skin manifestations as being due to a vaso-motor neurosis induced in some unknown way by the action of the drug ; and to this also the consensus of histological opinion points. The only constant changes on which all observers are agreed are, marked dilatation and some- times thrombosis of the cutaneous blood-vessels, with alteration and partial destruction of the coil-glands ; while, on the other hand, the sebaceous glands and hair follicles are only in isolated instances, and but to a limited extent, involved in the inflammation. The papulo-jyustular form usually begins as small shot-like papules which resemble some- what the earliest stage of the variolar rash, a resemblance which is much increased as they become vesicular, when they also show a marked tendency towards umbilication. They quickly pass into a pustular stage, the pustules being- more acuminate than those of the so-called "bromic acne," and being seated on an erythe- matous and somewhat infiltrated base. The writer has seen the eruption resemble in a very marked degree the vesicular eruption of herpes zoster, and, lilce it, leave on drying up and the siibsequent separation of the crusts, a small but distinct whitish scar. The seats of predilection are the face, the upper part of the thorax in front and behind, and, less frequently, the ex- tremities. From these primitive forms all degrees of development may be met with. The spots may become confluent, resembling the bromide eruptions, or may tend rather in a bullous direction, the contents of the bullte re- maining clearer than in the analogous bromide lesion. In rare cases the confluent form is associated with epithelial proliferation and a resulting papillomatous upgrowth, and when to this is added the introduction of pyogenic organisms and the formation of pus, which dis- charges throTigh multiple small openings, we have the condition described by Besnier as " ncne anthraco'ide iodo-jwtassiqiie." In a case described by Duhring " there Avas a confluence of the nodules, forming a sharply defined, rounded, inflammatory patch, violaceous in colour, its centre depressed and crusted, while the periphery was studded with deep-seated, yellowish, sebaceous-looking pustules, presenting an acneiform appearance.'' The vehicular and bullous forms are much less frequently met with ; while the xirticarial imdpurpuric varieties maybe regarded solely as society show cases. The condition described by Hutchinson as " iodide hydroa " is simply an exaggerated form of the bullous eruption. A fatal case of the purpuric form occurring in a young child and following a dose of 2^- gi-ains has been recorded by Stephen Mackenzie, and illustrated with a capital plate. No fixed relationship in time can be laid down as existing between the administration of the drug and the appearance of cutaneous symptoms. It varies largely in different cases, and depends among other things on two main factors : firstly, the relative susceptibility of the individual; and, secondly, the amount of the drug administered. But it has been already pointed out that the latter bears very little relation to the occurrence of skin lesions, because, as has been observed, tolerance of large doses is sometimes seen in those who react promptly to the drug in a minimal dose. Nor has elimina- tive activity any except a secondary relationship; because it has been shown that, on the one hand, vascular or renal inadequacy presupposes a saturation which we know does not exist, and, on the other liand, that the cutaneous symptoms may not manifest themselves for a considerable time after the drug has been suspended. This feature of dosage has been explained on the ground that, when given in large quantity, iodide of potassium acts as a diuretic ; while on withdrawal or reduction of quantity this eliminative activity ceases. As regards treafmeut, what has been said under the bromide eruptions applies equally here. As a prophylactic measure the most valuable, beyond doubt, is the free dilution of the di'ug with large quantities of natiu'al or artificial mineral waters, of milk, or of other diluents. The graver forms, besides stoppage of the drug, may require tonic and stimulant treatment, owing to tlie powerfully depressant eft'ect it has in many cases. Iodoform does not usually give rise to any skin manifestations when administered internally, or injected as an emulsion into the joints or subcutaneous tissues; yet in some cases the extension of the eruption spreads so far wide of the area of application that many dermatologists regard it as a constitutional intoxication quite apart from the local dermatitis caused by its direct application. This may be a punctiform, eczematous, or vesicular eruption, spreading with a rapidity and an advancing border of vivid redness almost indistinguishable from erysipelas. Here again idiosyncrasy counts for much ; and the writer has seen one case of rodent cancer in which a second application of the powdered drug reproduced, after an interval of five years, with absolute exactitude the featm-es of a previous attack due to the same cause, viz.