402 DIPSOMANIA reproductive or the maternal ii)sstiuct, the in- stinctive fear for a natural enemy, the instinctive hunger for a natural prey. The whole man is changed. His face is hard and set, full of fear, evidently bent upon something—either a way of escape or a means of satisfying his craving,— his muscles are twitching, he is restless and under great bodily distress, his respiration is panting, his pulse quick, his skin hot, his tongue dry and parched. Actual thirst is acute, but, though the patient drinks large quantities of bland liquid, satisfaction does not follow, and cannot, except by intoxication. The character- istic termination of the attack is by some degree of coma. This the patient accomplishes rapidly once he resigns himself to it. And now it is characteristic that he drinks alcoholic liquor as a water-starved man drinks water—not with any lingering pleasure, but in drenching doses. At this stage, when the patient has begun to drink, volition practically ceases to exist except for purposes of drinking; and he is dangerous to himself and to others. Any one who tries to thwart him may be violently assaulted; the most dangerous feats of escape from confinement may be attempted; and even extreme acts of immorality will not daunt a patient whose mind is made up. By degrees—often not so quickly as would happen in a normal man—some degree of coma follows. Unless the liquor has been diluted there is risk of alcoholic poisoning. When the patient is so comatose as to be oblivious of all else, he will still reach out for di-ink and pour it down his throat. It is not usual for positive, alcoholic symptoms—excitement, delirium, con- vulsions, and such like—to be prominent in the first bout. The patient at last sleeps, and awakes, as a rule, feeling better. Very often, however, there is only an interval of peace, and relapses are very common. Probably after a week or ten days of repeated bouts the patient recovers by prostration, a condition of collapse in which he is free from the alcoholic suggestion, or incurs delirium tremens or insanity. It is important to note that patients who have been prevented survive a paroxysm with a self-respect which has been retained at the cost of organic satisfaction, and are liable to have recurrent paroxysms. Those who drink, while they may be plunged, when they recover, into remorse- ful distress, have a sense of satiety which is, to some extent, a safeguard. The subsequent history of cases is varied. Generally speaking, paroxysms are not periodic, but are more truthfully to be described as occasional. Some cases become rapidly worse; others seems to pass through one paroxysm after another without much depreciation. Circum- stances which have been the occasion of a paroxysm are apt, if they recur, to occasion another and another—probably by suggestion. But many cases which have been treated judi- ciously outgrow their idiosyncrasy, or at least escape its paroxysmal phases. Nature and Pathology.—The pathology of dipsomania is quite unknown. To understand the condition it is helpful to consider the two phases of the disease — the idiosyncrasy which predisposes to it, and the paroxysm which ex- presses it. I would revert again to the analogy of a brute instinct. There is something quite \inusual in the patient's reaction to alcohol, comparable perhaps to the constitutional effects of characteristic odours upon the lower animals. We perhaps go too far in describing the reaction as pleasant; but it must obviously be at least attractive. As a matter of fact, however, the patient is often not sure whether he more likes or dreads the experience which follows upon a mild indulgence. The condition of the patient in the subsequent stage—the stage of resistance —must also be interpreted in the light of his previous experience. Probably the patient's imagination is more habitually under the influ- ence of the alcoholic idea than he confesses. The paroxysm may be variously explained. Perhaps it is a crisis—the culmination of a progressive, alcoholic psychosis comparable to an epilepsy. Or it may simply be that persons who have the alcoholic inequilibrium which dipsomania betokens are liable to occasional recurrent attacks of acute melancholia, and that then the alcoholic suggestion which has been suppressed obtains a rapid and complete ascendency. Whatever the morbid process be which we may suppose to underlie the pheno- menon, dipsomania is anervous condition in which there is (1) a nervous state in which alcoholic stimulation is powerfully suggestive, (2) occa- sional conditions in which the alcoholic neurosis assumes an epileptoid intensity, or in which the volitional functions generally are so reduced as to admit of its rapid development. The force- fulness of the impulse is nothing new. We are familiar with the same kind of thing in other pathological states—pyromania, nymphomania^ etc.; and, as I have said, in brute instinct. But no one has a satisfactory explanation of such phenomena. Diagnosis.—It is the common custom to call all manner of cases by the name dipsomania which have not much in common with it except just the bouts of excessive drinking. Such a practice may not be of very evil consequence, but it is far from exact. True dipsomania can- not easily be mistaken. The condition is con- stitutional and native, it does not develop in consequence of alcoholic habits, and it has dramatic features which are impressive and unique. Some writers speak of pseudo-dipso- manias, but it seems to me better to consider these as varieties of alcoholism. Features which characterise dipsomania—the unusual reaction, the occasional crisis, the forceful impulse—may each of them occur in alcoholism. But unless