CATARACT 68 It occasionally happens that when the attempt is being made to remove the lens by pressure on the cornea after the capsule has been ruptured, vitreous humour presents at, or escapes by, the external wound. Pressure has then to be abandoned and the lens has to be taken out with the vectis. This instrument, which con- sists of a fine steel loop, is inserted behind the lens by being gently forced past its upper margin with a slight side to side movement. As soon as it has slipped far enough back it is pushed downwards so that the lens comes to lie upon it. The vectis is then slowly with- drawn with the lens, which is at first kept pressed up against the back of the cornea until it has so far escaped from the eye that it readily comes away altogether. After this proceeding, if the lips of the wound do not lie in good apposition, the iris scissors should be used to cut across any vitreous which protrudes. This accident may occur from want of care in the use of the cystotome or by too great straining on the patient's part. The suspensory ligament is then ruptured. In some cases, especially where the cataract is over-ripe, it may be impossible to prevent. As it is a complica- tion which cannot always be foreseen, a vectis should always be at hand when performing a cataract extraction. A considerable loss of vitreous may take place without impairing the result of a cataract operation. Yet there can be no doubt that with the loss of vitreous, which is never replaced, the future of the eye is not so secure. Another complication which often calls for some modification of the method of operating is the co-existence of capsular cataract. When the capsular thickening is not very extensive the extraction may be performed in the ordinary way. With a large, dense, capsular cataract, however, it is best to extract a portion of the capsule instead of merely incising it before the lenticular cataract is removed. This is done with capsule forceps, of which there are various patterns. Extraction of the portion of capsule must be done carefully by gently moving the forceps from side to side as it is being with- drawn after having obtained a good hold of the membrane. After-treatment of Cataract Extraction. —Though not absolutely necessary, it is a good precaution to take to keep the patient in bed for two or three days after operation. This is the best way of as far as possible securing rest to the eye. When this treatment proves very irksome, as it is apt to do in very stout or in diabetic individuals, it is better not to insist upon it. With regard to dressings different ideas obtain. Some surgeons do not tie up the eye at all. Others apply some sort of dressing and bandaging, which is retained for a varying time afterwards. Others again tie up both eyes. Cataract extraction is an operation in which, given a healthy eye, rigid antiseptic precautions as regards the instruments used, and a certain amount of skill, and particularly quickness in performing the operation, the tendency to heal- ing is fortunately quite remarkable. On this account it is practically impossible to justify any claim of superiority for one method of after- treatment over any other which is not altogether irrational. The rule in such a case should be to err rather on the safe side. It is therefore probably on the whole best to tie up the eye which has been operated on for a few days. Three or four days is sufficient. The dressing, too, may be changed once a day and the eye examined at each dressing. The surrounding light should also not be excessive where it is possible to control this. The tying up of the other eye does not seem to secure any greater rest to the one operated upon, as the patient instinctively keeps it closed for the first few hours until healing is sufficiently advanced to prevent movement giving rise to any pain. As in many cases, too, such treatment is found to be very trying to the patient, it is better to avoid it. The only exception that should be made as regards tying up the eye after extraction is when there is an evident risk of infection from local sources, as there is, for instance,fparticularly in patients suffering at the same time from blenorrhoea of the lacrymal sac. In these cases it is better to leave the eye altogether un- covered. Where this complication exists it is also a good plan to dust freely finely powdered iodoform on the wound immediately after the operation is completed. The purulent secretion should subsequently be carefully removed from the lids two or three times in the twenty-four hours by irrigation with an antiseptic lotion. In view of the risk of infection, too, the opera- tion for a cataract which is complicated in this way should be done as quickly as possible. It is especially important that no prolonged effort should be made to remove cortex, as every moment and every movement of the eye may be supposed to increase the chances of micro- organisms settling in the wound. As a general rule the anterior chamber is found to be re-formed in a few hours after ex- traction, not infrequently indeed even within one hour. This means that after so short a time sufficient agglutination has taken place between the lips of the wound to admit of the retention of the aqueous humour. The cleaner the section and the more perfect the apposition the more rapid is this primary vmion. Hence the importance of a sharp knife and the absence of sawing movements in making the section, as also the final cleaning of the wound. Very little reaction takes place as a rule. There is usually a little congestion merely of the vessels in the neighbourhood of the wound.