BURS^, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 41 the popliteus, which is ahnost always an exten- sion from the first. On the outer side below the joint are burste between the tendons of the popliteus and biceps and the external lateral ligament. On the inner side there is a bursa between the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the femui-, which is prolonged between that muscle and the semi-membranosus, and often communicates with the joint. There is also a bursa between the semi-membranosus and the head of the tibia which is frequently enlarged, and sometimes a bursa between the tendons of the semi-membranosus and semi-tendinosus. A bursa also separates the tendons of the three inner ham-strings from the internal lateral ligament, and is prolonged beneath the insertion of the sartorius. In the foot, beneath the inser- tions of the tibialis anticus and sometimes of the peroneus brevis a bursa is foiuid. One important bursa is found between the upper part of the posterior surfaces of the os calcis and the tendo Achillis. It is frequently in- flamed, and the affection so constituted is called " Achillodynia." Injuries of Burs^.—These structures, from their exposed situations, are particularly liable to traumata either of accidental and violent character, or of a frequently recurring nature, and from the latter originates the condition known as chronic bursitis. A blow in the neighbourhood of a bursa results either in a contusion around the bursa or hajmorrhage into the bursal cavity from rupture of the vessels supplying it, an event especially liable to occur in a hajmophilic patient, or the bursa is rup- tured, a very probable event if it already contains fluid, or it may be cleanly torn open or lacerated. Injuries not suflicient to cause severe haemorrhage are followed by acute serous effusion. But if hsemorrhage occur it may either be absorbed or sometimes followed by suppuration, or failing to be absorbed it results in a fibroid bursa. Blood may be effused in such large quantities as to mask a severe injury of the bone beneath, e.g. fracture of the patella or of the olecranon. The treatment is as follows :—If there is no abrasion of the surface a cooling application should be employed for the first thirty-six hours and the part kept at rest. Then hot applica- tions may be used to aid absorption, assisted by pressure and gentle friction. Should the part become acutely inflamed, it is better to make a free incision, for the bursal sac is a lymph space and absorption from it readily occurs. If the bursa is wounded or lacerated it should be thoroughly cleansed with antiseptic fluids, and a gauze drain placed in the cavity for two days. Bursitis.—(«) The Simple Acute Form {Acute Hygroma) is etiologically of two varieties, Trau- matic or Primary, and Secondary from extension of inflammation in the neighbourhood. Trau- matic hygroma follows injuries, especially con- tusions and penetrating wounds; if it occur in bursEB already inflamed, suppuration often ensues, and hygroma is occasionally seen from excessive over-use. The secondary form is due to extension to the bursal sac of inflammation in the vicinity, although the sac may not be in direct communication with the part. Acute secondary bursitis is therefore seen in connec- tion with a boil, carbuncle, erysipelas, suppura- tive arthritis. The secondary form is either serous or suppurative, and the latter is either localised or diffuse. The serous form (acute serous hygroma) is accompanied by phenomena of gravity such as very acute pain, redness, oedema, and the formation of a tumour often within the first twenty hours. If the effused fluid remains serous, the swelling lessens in five or six days, and the inflammatory sym23toms subside, and the hygroma either disappears or becomes chronic, or pus may form. Should the suppuration be localised to the bursa, it will, if left to itself, burst, either externally and be followed by the formation of two or three fistulous openings, after which the bursa may shrink and disappear; or it will invade the neighbouring tissues and cause extensive cell- ulitis, and we have seen a suppurating bursa patellae followed by necrosis of that bone and by acute arthritis. The treatment is evidently to open the inflamed bursa freely so soon as any suspicion of pus arises. {h) Simj^ile Chronic Bursitis {Chronic Hy- groma).—Etiology. — It frequently follows acute, but more often is the result of occupation, as in housemaids, cobblers, tailors, and miners. Ver- neuil describes bursee as existing over tumours, and Cruveilhier met with a large serous bursa between a mammary scirrhus and the pectoralis major. Pre- and peri-hernial cysts are often bursal in their nature. False burste are met with over the prominences in club-foot and in bunion. The varieties of chronic hygi'omata are the cystic, proliferating, fibrous, and htemor- rhagic. A cystic hygroma is the most frequent, and corresponds pathologically to hj^drarthrosis. It is sometimes bi-lobed in shape, but is usually unilocular, rarely multilocular. The wall is composed of thickened fibrous tissue, carti- laginous in places, or incrusted with calcareous plates, and the bursa often lies in a fatty envelope, cf. hygroma lipomateux de la nugue in porters. The contents are either clear or opaque fluid, of yellowish colour, varying in consistence and containing many cholesterine crystals. Sometimes, however, it is bloody or purulent. In the wall there are often large arteries present, which may give rise to hremondiage. The proliferating hygroma is generally uni- locular. The cavity contains a variable quantity of liquid, and has loose bodies floating in it which have been detached from the interior of the sac. On the latter are seen numerous