EAR, EXAMINATION OF 459 examine the child at horne in the absence of any stranger. In the case of very deaf children, for the p\irpose of ascertaining whether any sound perception exists at all, such tests as clapping of the hands, the ringing of a bell, and blowing of a whistle may be employed. The source of such sounds must not be observed by the child, whose attention should be engaged, and whose expression should be watched by the |)arent or attendant. At the same time no current of air produced by these acts should fall upon the patient's liead or face, nor must any mechanical vibration reach him, as a source of fallacy is thus introduced. (c) The Tuninfi-Fork.—It is xnmecessary to enter fully into a consideration of the tuning- fork tests, as a detailed description has already been given under "Auditory Nerve and Laby- rinth," vol. i. p. 327. It will suffice here to briefly recapitulate the different points. The vibrations of a tuning-fork are condvicted to the nerve-endings in the labyrinth, through the external auditory meatus and chain of ossicles, and also through the cranial bones. The former is spoken of as "air-conduction," the latter as " bone-condtiction " of timing-fork vibrations. In a normal ear these vibrations are somewhat better heard by air-conduction. If in a deaf person the vibrations of a tuning- fork are perceived more loudly when the fork is applied to the skull than when it is held in front of the ear, " obstructive deafness" or a lesion in the sound-conducting apparatus is indicated ; in other words, there is " increased bone-conduction." On the other hand, if the vibrations are better heard in the deaf ear Avhen the fork is held in front of the meatus, " nerve deafness" is indicated, i.e. there is "diminished bone-conduction." These facts may be more briefly expressed as bone-conduction + (BC> AC) or lione-conduction - (AC>BC) (Weber's test). In a normal ear when a vibrating tuning-fork is placed on the mastoid process and kept in contact until the sounds are no longer heard, they again become audible when the fork is held opposite the meatus (Rinne's test positive). If in a deaf ear the tuning-fork, after ceasing to be heard on the mastoid, lie held opposite the meatus and is not again iieard, Rinne is nega- tive, and a lesion in the somid-conducting apparatus is indicated. On the other hand, if in a. deaf car the tuning-fork vibrations are again heard in front of the meatus, Rinne is positive, and a lesion of the soimd-perceiving apparatus is indicated. These facts may be more briefly expressed as Rinne - and Rinne 4-. (iardiner Browne's and Schwabach's tests may l}e useful as supplementary tests. Other Tests occasionalhj employed.—Gardiner Browne's.—In the normal, if the base of a medium vibrating tuning-fork is held on the mastoid process, it ceases to be heard at the same time that a trained finger and thumb cease to feel the vibrations. In middle ear disease the patient will hear the sound some time after the observer has ceased to feel the vibrations. In internal ear affections the patient ceases to hear the fork some seconds before the vibrations have ceased to be felt. Schwabach's.—In using this test the observer compares his own bone-conduction, which must be normal, with that of the patient. If the vibrating tmiing-fork placed on the mastoid process of the patient has ceased to be heard by him, but is still heard when placed on the mastoid process of the observer, labyrinthine disease is indicated ; on the other hand, if the patient hears the fork after the observer has ceased to do so, the existence of middle or external ear disease is suo-gested. Tests for Range of Tone Hearimj in Lahjp-iutli- ine Disease.—In addition to those facts already elicited by the use of the tuning-fork, further information can be obtained by testing the appreciation of the ear for sounds of different pitch. It is generally admitted that when the impairment of hearing is most marked for high notes — the low tones being relatively well heard — the labyrinth and sound-perceiving apparatus is at fault. On the other hand, when the impairment of liearing is most marked for low notes—the high tones being relatively well heard—the lesion is probably to be fomid in the sound-conducting apparatus. For this purpose a series of tuning-forks of varying pitch may be used, or one fork provided with metal clamps, which may be moved up and down the limbs, the deeper tones being produced when the clamps are fixed towards the free ends of the fork and vice versa. By the use of Galton's whistle, similar variations in pitch are obtained ; care should be taken that the patient does not confuse the blowing sound produced by the whistle with the true whistling note. In the absence of such instruments as these, an attempt may be made to form some estimate of the relative power of appreciating high and low tones by the use of letters of different pitch. According to Wolfe, R represents a sound of very low pitch ; S, on the other hand, is of high pitch. In internal ear deafness the voice may be heard relatively more distinctly than the higher note of the watch tick. Various musical instruments may also be used for testing gaps in the range of hearing. Simulated Deafness.—Various devices are emj-ikn'cd for the detection of feigned deafness. If the hearing in the affected ear is said to be ■iinimired, the patient should be carefully tested when blindfold. If total deafness, on the other hand, be feigned in one ear, the ear pieces of a liinam-al stethoscope should be introduced into the patient's ears, the end inserted into the ear in which hearing is said to be present having been previously plugged with a piece of wood. If the patient repeats words which are whispered