VISION 198 COLOUR 5. Disturbance of normal colour-perception is of frequent occurrence in certain functional neuroses, as hysteria, epilepsj% and hypnotism. For a detailed account of the special colour phenomena in these and in the above-mentioned groups the reader is referred to the special articles. Signal Colov/rs.—By universal custom, the colours — red, green, and white — have been adopted as signals to indicate conditions of danger and safety. When the prevalence of colour-blindness in the male sex was duly recog- nised, it was found that most colour-blind men were either red-blind or green-blind; and the advisability of replacing the above colours by others less readily mistaken was considered. Experiments, however, as to the luminosity of various coloured lights have satisfactorily proved that the colours in usage are the best and the only available signal lights for practical pur- poses ; for, while red transmits 10 per cent, and green 10 to 20 per cent of the light behind it, blue only allows 4 per cent to pass through, while yellow under certain atmospheric condi- tions would not be sufficiently distinctive. The elimination of the colour-blind from positions of vital responsibility became, therefore, a grave necessity, and upwards of forty methods for the detection have been devised. Methods of Testing.—Any method to be scientific and conclusive must be based on the principle of the matching of colours, since this is the only true appeal to the colour-sense. The naming of colours is fallacious, for the truly colour-blind may guess correctly, while from colour-ignorance or nervousness the colour-per- fect may fail. In methods involving the match- ing of colours, coloured pigments seen by reflected or transmitted light or the spectral colours may be employed. Of these the simplest and most practical test is that of Holmgren. A. Wool Test of Holmgren.—Seebeck was the first to mention coloured worsteds, while Wilson of Edinburgh was the first to employ them. Holmgren's method is an elaboration of the suggestion, five finely graduated shades of each of the following colours—red, orange, yellow, greenish-yellow, green, greenish-blue, blue,violet, purple, rose, brown and grey—being employed. The test consists in requiring the examinee to match from the heap of wools of various colours and shades (confusion colours) placed on a white cloth in a good light "test skeins" of certain definite colours. These test skeins are three in number, and are applied in a given order. Test 1.—The examinee is given a skein of very pure pale green (which should be held apart) and told to select from the heap all the skeins which contain any tint of that colour, care being taken to avoid specifying the colour of the test skein. If any but green skeins be selected by the examinee as a match, colour- blindness is established; while a marked dis- position to select such, though finally not yielded to, indicates a feeble colour - sense. Should the examinee have a difficulty in under- standing what is required of him, the examiner himself may show him by selecting the required skeins without in any way invalidating the value of the test. To ascertain the kind and degree of the colour - defect two further tests may be em- ployed :— Test 2.—A rose-coloured skein (a mixture principally of red and blue in the proportion of two to one) is now given to the examinee, and he is asked to match it. If he select blue and purple skeins he is completely red-blind, while if he select the blue-green skeins he is com- pletely green-blind. Test 3.—A bright-red skein is now presented. The complete red-blind selects as matches to this, dark green and reds, and browns {i.e. shades which to the normal eye appear darker), while the complete green-blind selects light green and light browns {i.e. shades which to the normal sense appear lighter than the test colour). It does not always follow that the mistakes of the colovir-blind are invariably those indicated above. As normal colotir-perception varies in different individuals, so in the colour-blind every gradation as to kind and degree of defect exists. While typical cases of either form respond, therefore, in a distinctive manner to the tests employed, incomplete cases will be indicated by deviation from these regular lines. Various modifications of this method have been devised for facilitating the examination and recording the results, when dealing with large bodies of men. These may be briefly enumerated as follow :—1. Thomson's colour stick; 2. Jeafferson's colour disc; 3. C. A. Oliver's wool test; 4. Daae's wool squares; 5. Reuss' colour table; 6. Cohn's embroidery patterns ; 7. Bodal's coloured cylinders ; 8. Schenke's yarn spools; 9. Bonders' wool rolls. B. Pigment Tests. — Cohn and Mauthner advocate the use of bottles filled with diff'erent pigments in place of worsted. C. The diromo-lithographic tables of Stilling consist of coloured letters on differently col- oured backgrounds, seen under reflected light. Grossmann's modification embodies this idea, but the coloured slides are shown by transmitted light. The above-mentioned methods only permit of a qualitative determination of the colour-sense. To determine this quantitatively recourse must be had to one of several methods devised by Bonders, Oliver, and Brudenell Carter. For a truly scientific estimation of the colour- sense the spectral colours must be employed. Lord Rayleigh, Abney, Chibret, and Hirschberg have devised instruments by means of which definite spectral colours can be exposed and matched for selection from another spectrum.