DEOPSY 422 to a consideration of the influence of various diseased states on these different factors. On neither of these points can final and complete statements be made. The physical and chemical natures of the fluids are discussed elsewhere. {See " Fluids, Examination of Pathological.") The agencies at work in promoting the movement of lymph will be considered under " Lymphatic System," and it will suffice to Indicate here the directions in which these agencies may be modified. For convenience these will be stated cate- gorically, but in nature no such arbitrary line can be drawn, as not one but many factors are frequently at work in any given case. I. Cardio-vascular Disease.—Any condition which induces either increased forward (arterial) pressure, or an increased backAvard (venous) pi-essure, especially the latter, predisposes to the occurrence of dropsy. In both cases the primary cause is probably a vital alteration in the capillary endothelium, and in both, physical causes the results of pressure are also at work. Experiments have shown that obstruction to the venous return in a limb even when com- plete is not suflicient to induce dropsy, as the lymphatic system possesses a remarkable com- pensatory power. If the increased venous pressure is associated with an increased afflux of arterial blood, such as might arise from vaso-motor disturbance, the tendency to dropsy is much increased. In all such cases the influence of any associ- ated altered quality of the blood, whether due to a simple hydrfemia, presence of salts in excess, rendering diff'usion more easy, or the presence of various toxic bodies, has to be carefully considered. A watery state of the blood alone has been shown by experiment to be insufficient to pro- duce dropsy luitil the hydremic condition has lasted a sufficient time to alter the vitality of the endothelium. Various other experiments have been made by physiologists on the effects of the injection of glucose and other bodies into the blood-stream, and the results go far to indicate the important part played by altered states of the Ijlood. II. Lymphatic System.—With regard to the lymphatic system experimental observations have shown that obstruction to a lymphatic ti'unk is not in itself sufficient to induce dropsy if the other parts of the vascular system are intact. III. Nervous System.—The influence of the nervous system is midoubted, but the exact mode of action is uncertain. We know that there are at least two directions in which the nervous system may act: (a) Through altera- tion of the vaso-motor mechanism involved; {h) in virtue of the trophic influence on the tissues. Of these two the latter, although more indeterminate, is probably the more important, and it is to differences in the vital absorbent power of the tissues that we must mainly look in explana- ation of the occurrence of dropsy in many cases. Local dropsies have, as a rule, local causes, but apart from the influence of gravity and the pi'esence of a definable obstruction of a vessel, as by a thrombus, in every case it is advisable to think of, seriatim, the nature of the arterial afflux (of the local pxdse), the freedom of the venous return, the absorbent power of the tissues, especially the endothelium and the general neuro-muscular tone of the individiial. Diagnosis.—While the recognition of dropsy is easy, great difficulty is frequently experienced in apportioning due significance to the im- poi'tant causal agents in any given case. It is important to recognise this with a view to accurate prognosis and successful treatment. Great regard shoidd be paid to the state of general blood-pressure, and the working power of the right and left heart should be separately investigated. The existence of toxic bodies in the blood may frequently be inferred from the quantity and quality of the urine voided, cor- roborative evidence being obtained from a study of the case as a whole, and especially the state of the central nervous system. Prognosis.—This depends entirely upon the cause and upon amenability to treatment. A consideration of the various points referred to under diagnosis ai'e of first importance. Treatment.—The first indication is to test the cause, and if dependent on any specific toxic body, e.g. beriberi, the treatment appropriate to that disease must be adopted. Otherwise the treatment must be conducted on the general lines indicated by the diagnosis. Complete rest in bed, judicious use of band- ages, and the use of various cardiac tonics, and careful attention to the functions of the skin, bowels, and kidneys, are the remedies of greatest service. An occasional saline is the best form of purgative. It is also advisable to limit the amount of fluid ingested, and in severe cases benefit is obtained by aspiration {q.v.) or by the use of Southey's tubes, care being taken to use these remedies under very careful aseptic conditions; other appropriate general or nervine tonics are called for. Dropsy, Epidemic. See also Beriberi. Between the years 1877 and 1880 there broke out in Calcutta a peculiar disease to which the term epidemic dropsy was applied. The disease only occurred during the cold weather, and a similar outbreak was noted in Mauritius and Assam in 1878, and at Dacca and South Sylhot in the cold season of 1878-79. The best account of the condition has been given by M'Leod, who described the cases as seen in Calcutta {Trans. Epid. Soc. vol. xii.). The mortality there was as high as 20 to 40 per cent, while in the other districts the