CHOLERA, EPIDEMIC 123 in which it grows, the modes in which it is transported from place to place, and the vehicles by which it is conveyed into the body, prophy- lactic measures can now be applied with a pre- cision and success that were formerly impossible. The poison ought to l)e attacked at its source by the cremation or thorough disinfection of cholera evacuations. In cholera hospitals it will be better to cremate the stools after mixing them -with sawdust, but their quantity \m- doubtedly renders this method of disposing of them difficult in private houses. Carbolic acid in 5 per cent solution is the most useful disin- fectant for general use. Bichloride of mercury solution, 1 per 1000, with addition of free hydrochloric acid to prevent the formation of albuminate of mercury, is an effective germicide, but its poisonous properties are an objection to its general use. Chloride of lime, 10 parts in solution to 100 of fa;ces, may also be used. The disinfected stools should be buried at a distance from wells. Clothes may be disinfected by boil- ing, but as a preliminary they should be fumi- gated with sulphurous acid. Or disinfection by dry heat may be used. Soiled linen and other articles of little value should be burned. Fur- niture and utensils should be cleansed by wash- ing with carbolic acid, 1 in 20, added to hot water; they should then lie exposed to the sun, so as to be thoroughly dried. Rooms and cabins of ships may be disinfected by sulpluirous acid or chlorine. For every 1000 cubic feet 1 lb. of sulphur is to be used. Chlorine may be evolved by adding hydrochloric acid to chloride of lime in the proportion of 22 IVjs. of acid to 15 lbs. of the chloride for every 1000 cubic feet of air- space. For disinfection of a ship's bilge a 5 per cent solution of carbonic acid, left to act for forty-eight hoiirs, may be employed. We must also mention that Hankin has great faith in permanganate of potash as a means of disinfect- ing cholera wells. The permanganate is added at sunset, so as to allow the sediment to settle to the bottom. In the morning the water is fit to drink. To oiu- way of thinking, cholera wells should be shut xip whenever practicable, and if this is imjjossible, the water should be boiled before being used for any purpose whatsoever. The measures demanded for preventing the transport of the disease are the regulation of pilgrimages in India, Mecca, and Mesopotamia. Efl'ective sanitation of pilgrim resorts, means for isolating the sick, arrangements for the inspec- tion of pilgrim shijjs, their quarantine when necessarjr, and the disinfection of the clothing and other effects belonging to the infected bands, come under this head. These are matters of international policy, on which it is unnecessary to dwell. Although strict quarantine is impracticable in a country like England, it is of great value in preventing the introduction of the disease in islands and countries where trade is not extensive and is limited to a few ports when properly and humanely carried out. The measures for removing conditions favour- ing the growth of the germ—what I have spoken of as breeding-places or culture media—resolve themselves into general sanitation. Moist lands should be drained, the pollution of the soil by excreta, and the contamination of the waters of harbours and streams by cholera evacuations, and the discharge of sewage prevented. Cess- pools are to be disinfectecl and closed, and all refuse and organic matters regularly removed. Gutters and sewers are to be kept in good order. Streets, yards, and houses should be inspected regularly, and measures taken to keep them in a state of perfect cleanliness. If such means be adopted, the germ will find no mediiun on which to grow, and even should the disease be imported, it is little likely to spread. Above all, care must be taken to prevent the pollution of drinking water, which is the vehicle for the wholesale dift'usion of the virus. No city dependent on shallow wells or on sewage-pol- luted rivers is safe from cholera outbreaks. An efiicient system of filtration (such as that sup- plied by some of the London Companies) does, however, materially diminish the risk attend- ing the use of sewage-polluted water. When a water-supply has become polluted, the obvious precaution is to boil it before use. When cholera breaks out in barracks, the troops should be marched out to a dry and elevated locality having a pure water-supply. If the infection persists, the camping ground should be changed. The old rule of marching at right angles to the wind may be safely ignored. The barracks should, in the meantime, be disinfected and the water-supply looked into. Cholera outbreaks on crowded vessels are always difficult to deal with, and not easy to prevent. Careful daily inspection, the isolation of the first cases, and attention to cleanliness, and, above all, free ventilation are the most likely means to prevent the spread of the malady. If the weather be fine the patients should be put into boats, hung from the davits and fitted up with awnings, and the utmost attention paid to the disinfection of the berths, cabins, and the belongings of the sick. One other means of prophylaxis which affords a reasonable hope of immunity is the method of vaccination practised by Haft'kine. Of 5357 labourers employed in the Cachar tea-gardens, 2381 were inoculated, while 2976 remained un- protected ; 4 of the inoculated and 60 of the iminoculated died. In other words, the deaths were proportionately twelve times more numer- ous among the improtected. Unfortunately the protection does not appear to last above a year or a year and a half, yet the value of this method in the case of bodies of men having to live for a limited time in an area where cholera is endemic, or in the case of a