CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF 105 siderable degree without indicating any serious risk. {b) Hate of the Respiration.—In young infants the rate of breatliing is very variable, and it is difficult, tlierefore, to estimate it correctly. At birth the number of respirations per minute varies from 32 to 50, and during the first year from 25 to 35. During the second, third, and fourth years it is about 25 per minute. It varies, like the pulse, with the temperature and with the mental state. (Jenerally the important point to determine is not merely the rate of the breathing, but tlie ratio between that and the pulse-rate. The pulse-respiration ratio should in health be 1 to 3J or 4, and any great disturbance <jf these proportions is of clinical significance. Increased respiration-rate witli dyspnea signifies pul- monary disease. Rapid breathing without dyspnoea may have the same significance, or it may arise from abdominal distension or rickety deformity of the chest. It is also met with, and sometimes to a marked extent, in the irri- table states which sometimes accompany teething and lith;icmia. Extra-auscultdtion. — Before and during the physical examination of the child's chest it is very important to listen carefully to his breath- ing, his cry, and his cough. (1) The Brenthmy.—Snufflhij; breathing may be due to ordinary catarrh. When, however, it persists for a long period, or occurs apart from other catarrhal symptoms, it always suggests the presence of syphilis. Snoring during sleep, with noisy breathing wliile awake, and a nasal tone of voice, com- monly indicate the presence of enlarged tonsils or adenoids, but may be due to diplitheritic paralysis of the palate. Noiay breathing with dyspnoea, chiefly during inspiration, and a cry which is nasal V)ut not generally hoarse, is characteristic of retropharyngeal abscess. Deep sighing may mean very little, but it is one of the symptoms met with in the prodromal stage of tuberculous meningitis. Laryngeal or strididous breathing in young infants is most frequently due to congenital laryngeal stridor, l)ut may be caused by laryn- gitis or enlarged bronchial glands. In older children it often indicates the presence of true or false croup, or of some other form of laryngeal obstruction such as polypi. Bronchiid wlieezing is often readily audible in bronchitis of tlie larger tubes as well as in asthma. (2) The Cry.—From the loudness of an infant's cry we can gauge his strength to a certain extent. If he cries loud and long we may be almost sure that he has no serious acute condition of his respiratory passages. A hoarse laryngeal cry is generally a symptom of con- genital syphilis in yotnig infants. (3) Tiie Cough.—The cough is loud and clanging at the beginning of an attack of croup, and husky and stridulous at a later stage. In bronchitis it is often deep and harsh. In pneinnonia, with accompanying pleurisy, it is sujgu'essed and, painful. If a child coughs loudly without wincing, you may be sure that he has not got acute pleurisy. A loud, noisy cough at night and in the morning is character- istic of a catarrhal condition of the throat with or without dyspepsia. If the cough has a dis- tinctly p)aroxysmal character, this is always suggestive of whooping-cough, especially if it is worse at night, and sometimes ends in vomiting. Markedly paroxysmal coughs, however, are also met with in empyema, in enlargement of the bronchial glands, and in some cases of simple bronchitis. Tlie Sputum.—It is only when children are between five and seven years old that they begin to expectorate naturally. Before that age they swallow the sputum. Real haemoptysis is rare in childhood. In phthisis it only occurs as a late symptom. It is most frequently met with in whooping-cough. PhysicaI; Examination of Chest.—Palpation. —In examining the hmgs, one of the first things to do is to ascertain the position of the Itearfs apex-beat. If it is displaced, this throws im- portant light on the state of the lungs. Vocal fremitus is often difficult to obtain in children, owing to the quality of the child's voice and his unwillingness to speak loud. In infants it is often got very satisfactorily during crying. Auscultation. — Little children often hold their breath when you try to auscultate them. This is annoying, but at least it proves that there is no serious lung-disease present. Loud crying does not interfere with auscultation veiy much. The long breaths which it necessitates make any accompaniments to the breath-soiuids more clearly heard, and the pauses between the cries usually allow time to hear the heart- sounds during one or two cardiac revolutions. Whimpering and sobl)ing are much more trouble- some. The brea th-sounds in young babies are naturally very weak, owing to the feeble, shallow nature of their breathing. As the children grow older they get gradually louder, and by about the age of six months they have acquired the peculiar harsh character known as puerile. If on auscultating a child's chest the breath- sounds are found to differ in loudness on the two sides, the side with the weaker breathing is almost always the abnormal one. Abnormal weakness of the breathing is met with in the early stages of pneumonia, in plexiritic eftiision, in collapse of the lung, and in pnemnothorax. Tubular breathing is more often met with in pleurisy with efl'usion in children than in adults, and sometimes leads to a mistaken diagnosis of consolidation.