DER^rATITIS TRAU]\0 ATICA ET VENENATA 313 Hat warts on the ulnar Ijorders of tlie flexor surfaces of both forearms. The treatment of this affection slioiild be in the first place of a preventive kind. The men in tar works should be protected as far as possible from the splashes of the hot licjuids, and should be in all cases encouraged to observe scrupulous cleanliness after cessation of work. As regards ciirative treatment, when the erup- tion has once developed there is little to be done at first. The workmen all know themselves that if they pick ofl' the little horny projections they are liable to aggravate the disease. If any of the tumours grow to an inconvenient size it is advisable to remove them without waiting for exfoliation, and in any case a sharp look-out should ])e kept on all growths, so that, should any of them develop malignant tendencies, they may be removed at once. As lias been already noted, a rash strongly resembling that just described has been observed in workers with paraffin, though this agent does not appear to produce the epithelial tumours. There is, however, another form of eruption occasionally seen on the legs of those men who habitually carry about vessels of petroleum. Usually the right leg only is afi^ected, owing to tlie fact that the can is carried in the right hand. The right trouser leg gets saturated with the oil, and its action, aided perhaps by the constant friction of the skin, j^i'oduces a curious bullous eruption situated on a brawny and in- flamed base. There is usually' a considerable amount of pyogenic infection of the eruption, which soon dies away under soothing and pro- tective pastes. Recently a chemical much used as a developer of photographic plates, metol, has been found to cause a somewhat characteristic eruption on the hands. The salient features of the eruption are :—A strikingly polished appearance of tlie epidermis as if varnished ; a diffuse, even, cyano- tic hypera>mia of the aftected parts, almost blue in colour; thickening of the skin itself, with the suVijective symptoms of nmiilmess, stiffness, itching, and pain. The eruption somewhat resembles both perniosis and erythromelalgia. V\\m\ the former it is distinguished by its occur- rence in hot weather and its affecting all the fingers evenly, while from the latter it may be easily differentiated by the absence of the characteristic paroxysms of pain. Recovery takes place in two or three weeks after removal of the cause. Feigned Erujilimis.—Lastly, a. sliort descrip- tion must be given of the feigned eruptions. These have been separated from the main body of artificial eruptions—first, on account of the fact that they are not all true inflannnations ; and, secondly, because they present some peculiar features of interest. There are two classes of case to be considered—that in which the erup- tion is produced for obvious reasons, such as to avoid some distasteful occupation, and that in which there is a morbid state of the mind. Patients belonging to the second class should always be most carefully watched for symptoms of mania developing. Thus in one of Shepherd's cases a girl ran out of the hospital ward, where there was no fire, with her clothes on fire. The types of eruption may be divided into anomalies of secretion, such as red and black sweating, blue concretions at the mouths of the sebaceous follicles, etc., and inflanmiatory erup- tions. In the former class the number of colouring agents which may be used is almost ^nilimited, though curiously enough soot seems to be one of the most favourite applications. The pig- ment is generally made up with grease to make it adhere properly, so that a few drops of Vjcnzine on a tuft of cotton-wool will clean it ott', leaving a perfectly normal skin beneath. The differential diagnosis of these eruptions from those of true- coloured secretion is very difficult, and is only to be accomplished either by careful watching, or in those instances in which the substance used can be identified by chemical or micro- scopical examination, as in a case in wliich extract of liquorice was used to simulate bleed- ing points. In the inflanmiatory class of cases the erup- tion may be simply a hypertemia, or it may be more often bullous, vesicular, and pustular, with gangrene and ulceration, or again it may be some deep-seated chronic inflammation of nodular character. Often there is, as in other kinds of hysterical manifestations, some true lesion of the skin or some eruption produced for therapeutic purposes as the forerunner of the feigned manifestation. Thus some patients who have been treated by blistering by one doctor, have afterwards procured jjreparations of can- tharides with which to deceive jjeople. Some of the substances used have been nitric acid, car- bolic acid, cantharides, croton oil, tartar emetic, and mustard. The circumstances which should always give rise to suspicion are: incorrigible idleness in men, hysteria in women and girls, the age of puberty, the correspondence of the eruption with no known form of idiopathic erup- tion, combined with a similarity to the effects of known irritants, and the occurrence on the left side and on situations which are easily reached by the patient. In many cases the irri- tant will have run on the skin, producing a streak below the patch of inflammation, and the patch itself has often irregular outlines. In doubtful cases the litnuis paper should always be used, as a very strong acid reaction of the tissues will remain for days when any of the mineral acids have been used. Sometimes the patch may smell of the corrosive, as in one case where the slough was produced with crude car- bolic acid used for disinfecting purposes. Lastly, the area, if showing the chronic inflammatory