350 DIAZOBENZENE C,;H5.N:N.0H ; it closely resembles tyrotoxicoii, the toxic ptomaine which has been isolated from poisonous cheese, milk, or cream. Diazobenzene sulphonic acid is used in testing urmc{vide infra). See also Toxicology (Cheese). Dia.ZO-Rea.CtiOn. — Ehrlich's diazo-re- action may be obtained as follows : a few ccs. of urine are put in a test-tube ; an equal quantity of a saturated solution of sulphanilic acid in a solution of hydrochloric acid (50 cc. to 1000 cc.) is added ; then also an equal quantity of a half per cent solution of sodium nitrite is added ; the whole is then shaken ; next 1 cc. of ammonia is run slowly down the side of the tube and forms a colourless zone above the urine, and if the urine be normal a brownish ring is pro- duced where the two fluids meet, but in certain cases a deep broumish-red ring forms (the diazo- reaction); the foam of the mixed urine and reagent is brownish yellow in normal urine, and rose-red when the reaction is present. The diazo-reaction is not a certain test for typhoid fever, for it is found also in malaria, tuberculosis, and typhus. See Lung, Tuberculosis {Compli- cations, Uro-genital, Prognosis); MaJjARIA (Benifpi Tertian Fever, Urine); Typhus Fever [Period of Advance). Dibasic Acids and Salts.—Acids {e.g. sulphuric acid) are dibasic when they con- tain (in each molecule) two atoms of hydrogen replaceable by a base ; salts are said to be dibasic which are foi-nied by the replacement of two such atoms by a base. Dibothr-iocephaius \iu\s^r\s. See Parasites {Cestodes, Bothriocephalm latus). DicephaiuS.—United twins or double monster, in which the two heads and generally the two necks are separate. See Teratology {United Twins, Dicephalic). DicheiluS. — The congenital anomaly known as "double lip"; it is due to the pres- ence of a fold of mucous membrane on the inner aspect of the upper or lower lip, giving to it the appearance of duplicity (Ballantyne, Antenatal Pathology, vol. ii. p. 390). DichimS.—The rare teratological state known as fused or double hand, in which there are more digits than normal (7 or 8), but, as a rule, no thumbs, and in which there may be two ulnae instead of a radius and ulna in the forearm (Ballantyne, Antenatal Pathology, vol. ii. p. 586). DichlOracetiC Acid.—Acetic acid in which two atoms of chlorine have taken the place of two atoms of hydrogen in the acid radicle; acetic acid is CH3COOH, and dichlor- acetic acid has the formula CHCloCOOH ; it usually occurs in the form of a very caustic liquid. Dichotomy. — The division of the fee received by an operator or a consultant between himself and the general practitioner who has called him in ; a reprehensible practice from the standpoint of professional ethics. Diciiroism.—The property of a substance by which it has one colour when viewed by transmitted light and another by direct light. Dichromatopsia. — Colour-blindness in which only two of tlie primary colours can be distinguished, in contrast to monochroma- topsia, in which the whole spectrum appears in shades of one colour {e.g. green). Dicroccelauiim Lanceolatum. See Parasites {J/el/ainths, Trematodes). Dicrotism. See Pulse {Interpretation and Value of the Sphygmogram, Dicrotism and Hyperdicrotism); Physiology, Circulation {Ar- terial Pulse, Pulse Wave). Dictyoid.—Reticulated, from Gr. SIktvov, a not, and etSos, form; thus dictyopsia is the morbid state of vision in which net-like objects are seen before the eyes. Didactylism.—The malformation of the hand in which two digits alone are found; bidactyly ; " lobster-claw deformity." Didelphys.—The uterus didelphys is the most complete form of double uterus, there being two separate laterally-placed halves, each of which, however, has only one ovary and tube attached ; the vagina may be single or double. Didot'S Operation. See Deformities {Hand and. Fingers, Syndactylism, Treatment). Didymin.—Testicular substance; recom- mended in sterility, neurasthenia, etc. See Indigestion {Treatment, Nervous Dyspepsia). DiencephalOn.—The inter-brain or thalamencephalon in embryology. Diet. Nutritive Constituents of Food . .351 ptequirements in health . . . 351 Modifying Factors— Age and Sex, Height, Work and Rest, Climate, Personal Peculiarities . 353 Relative Value op Foods . . . 354 Animal Foods— Meats, Jellies, Beef Juices, Fish . 355 Milk and its Products .... 358 Eggs 359 Vegetable Foods— Cereals, Pulses, Roots and Tubers, Green Vegetables, Fruits, Fungi, etc. 359 Mineral Constituents of Foods . . 363 Beverages ...... 363 See also Adolescent Insanity {Treatment, Diet); Alcoholism {Treatment, Personal); Ar-