49 CALVARIA Ca.lva.ria,.—Tlie top jmrt or roof of tlie skull; the portion lying above the occipital protuberance, the orbits, and the ears ; calvarium is a modern form of the word. See Anthro- pology. Calvities.—ISaldncss. See Alopecia. Calx. See Calcium ; Chlorine {Calx CIdorinata); Sulphur {Calx S-ulj^hurata); Pharmacology ; Prescribing. CambOg'ia.—^Gamboge is a gum resin, acting as a powerful purgative (drastic hydra- gogue), and seldom used (on account of its griping effects), unless in the form of the Pilida Camhogia- Composita (which contains also Barbados aloes). Gamboge contains a bright yellow resin (gambogic acid) and a soluble gum ; the dose is \ to 2 grs., and of the Compound Pill, 4 to 8 grs. Camhogia Indlca, or Indian Gamboge, is found in the Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Pharmacopoeia ; it is got from Garcinia morella (the British drug is from Garcinia Hanhurii); and it has the same action and dose (4 to 2 grs.). Cameron's Septic Tank, See SKWA(iE AM) DitAiNAGE {Seuuge Disposal). Camisole. — A strait - jacket or strait- waistcoat, used in the management of the insane. Camp Fever. See Typhuw Fever. Camphene.—One of the series of solid hydrocarbons, called terpenes (Cj^Hj,,), formed artificially or occurring naturally (in some oils). Camphora. See Aphrodisiacs; Phar- macology ; Prescribing ; etc. •— Camphora is obtained from Cinnamomum camphora, the camphor laurel, found in the East Indies, China, and Japan. It is in the form of colourless crystalline masses, with a powerful characteristic odour and a hitter, jjungent taste. It is soluble 1 in 700 of water, 1 in 2 of oil of turpentine, 1 in 4 of olive oil, and readily in milk, ether, alcohol, and chloroform. Wlien mixed with chloral, carbolic acid, or thymol it forms a thick liquid. Dose—2-5 grs. Preparations—1. Aqua Camphora;. Dose— 1 - 2 07,. 2. Linimentum Camphorre (Cam- phorated Oil). 3. Linimentum Camphora? Anmioniatum(Compound Liniment of Camphor). 4. Spiritus Camphora). Dose—-5-20 m. 5. Tinctura Camphora: Composita {see Opium). Liniments containing camphor are largely employed in chronic rheumatism, neuralgia, lumbago, sciatica, and in slight chest troubles. The benefit derived is probably due in most cases to its slight counter-irritant effect, in some to its local anesthetic action. A mixture of camphor and carbolic acid dropped into a tooth will frequently relieve toothache. Internally, vol. II camphor is used as a carminative and anti- spasmodic, especially in neurotic subjects. A few drops of the spirit of camphor in milk or on sugar taken every half-hour will in some persons arrest a cold in tlie head if taken in the initial stages. It has been used in cholera because of its mild antiseptic action. Lastly, it has been recommended in threatened cardiac failure, given hypodermically dissolved in rectified spirit (1 in 5). CampylorrhachiS. — Distortion or curvature of the spine, especially when of a teratological amount. The same root (ko/x- TTi'Ao?, crooked) is contained in campylocheirus (distorted hand), campylorrhimts (crooked nose), and cainjii/loscdus (crooked leg). Canada. See Balneology {America and Canada). Canal Boats.—Any vessel, not a ship, used for the conveyance of goods along a canal (" any river, inland navigation, lake, or water, being within tlie body of a county, whether it is or is not within the ebb and flow of the tide "), however it may be propelled. All such boiits must (in England and Wales) be registered with the Local Authority if used as a dwelling- house. Regulations for the hygiene of canal boats, and for the management of cases of illness occurring on board, are found in the Canal Boats Acts of 1877 and 1884. Canal, Cloquet'S.—The hyaloid canal in the vitreous humour, through which, in the antenatal state, the hyaloid artery passes to the lens. Canal, Genital. See Generation, Femai;E Organs of ; Laisour, Precipitate and Prolonged ; Labour, In.juries to the Gener- ative Organs ; Uterus, Malformations of the ; Vagina, Disorders of. Canal, Haversian. See Physiolo(;y, Tissues {Bone). Canal iCU I i. See Lachrymal Apparatus, Diseases of. Canalization. — (l) The conversion (during labour) of the utero-vagino-vulvar tract into a continuous canal of practically equal calibre for the transit of the infant. See Labour, Stages and Duration. (2) The forma- tion of channels, e.g. blood-vessels. And (3) a method of draining wounds. Canal of Nuck. See Hernia {Oblique higuinal). Canals, Semicircular, .sv Physio- logy, Senses {Internal Ear); Physiology, Nervous System {Semicircvlar Canals); Vertigo {Jhminr's Disease). Canary Islands. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Islands of the South Atlantic). 4