320 DIABETES INSIPIDUS running through neuropathic families or alter- nating with other nervous or mental troubles. Thus Griesinger in one instance found that seven blood relations of the patient were epi- leptic, in two instances the patient himself was epileptic, in one instance both the patient and his friends were epileptic. Gee notes a family where in four generations of 23 patients 11 suffered from diabetes insipidus; Orsi, a family of 9, 6 of whom were affected ; and Weil, a family of 21, 20 of whom developed the complaint. The causal relationship between syphilis and diabetes insipidus is not yet quite clear. In most cases the condition must be ascribed to cerebral gumma or endarteritis, but a number remain where the exact condition cannot be substantiated. In brain diseases tubercidosis must not be forgotten in diabetes insipidus in childhood, and two cases have been described where chronic hydrocephalus existed. The acute infectious diseases, gout, trauma of the head or abdomen, mental shock and worry, exposure to cold, a bout of drunkenness, neglect and improper feeding, with consequent mal- nutrition in children, may all have a causal relationship to the disease. Symptoms.—Two prominent and characteristic symptoms are present in the disease—an increase in the amount of urine excreted and a marked and distressing thirst. The onset of the disease may be insidious or sudden ; there is complaint of increased frequency of micturition and in- crease in the amount of urine passed, distressing during the day, and preventing proper sleep during the night. The amount of urine is enor- mously increased, as much as fifteen to twenty pints being passed in twenty-four hours. Except in the later stages of the disease the amount of urine excreted exceeds considerably the amount of fluid ingested, the surplus being made up from the food and the tissues of the body. When, however, a certain stage of the disease is reached the tissues become dehydi'ated, and this disproportion is lost. The urine is pale in colour with a yellowish or greenish tinge. The reaction is faintly acid or neutral. The specific gravity is always low—1002 to 1005. Glucose is absent, but inosite or muscle sugar is frequently present, but its presence is not characteristic, as it may be found in chronic interstitial nephritis, and even in health after an excessive amount of water has been drimk. As a rule albumin is absent, except in the later stages of the disease, when it may be present as the result of the general dyscrasia and dis- organisation of the kidneys. The urine on standing may become turbid from the deposit of epithelial cells ; crystals of oxalate of lime may be present, and phosphates may form from ammoniacal decomposition. The percentage of total solids is small, but the total daily excretion of nitrogen may be slightly increased. The chlorides and phosphates are increased. The thirst is excessive and distressing. Enormous amounts of fluids can be swallowed by the suf- ferer. Trousseau recounts the case of a young man who daily drank forty litres of fluid and passed forty-three litres of urine. Under treat- ment, when unable to get water the thirst be- came so intolerable that he drank the contents of the chamber-pot. The mouth, tongue, and fauces are dry and parched. The appetite may be unaft'ected, but it is usually increased, and in the early stages of the disease may be voracious. Digestion in the earlier stages of the disease is normally per- formed. The bowels may be constipated. The temperature is as a rule subnormal. The skin is dry and harsh. The nervous system is dis- turbed. When the condition is due to a gross cerebral lesion paralysis of cranial nerves with hemianopsia may be present. The sensory func- tions are usually abnormal, thus pains in the back and legs and a tendency to headache, tingling and itching of the skin may be present. Amblyopia is common without any discoverable lesion. The mental functions are below par, the patient being irritable and depressed. In- somnia is distressing. The sexual powers are enfeebled. The progress of the disease is variable. At times the condition is so slight as to be regarded more as an annoyance than as a disease. In more severe cases progressive deterioration in nutrition sets in, the muscles waste, the appetite diminishes, digestion fails, and attacks of diarrhoea supervene. The patient becomes exhausted, drowsy, and gradually comatose, un- less carried off by an intercurrent attack of hypostatic pneumonia. Diagnosis is not as a rule difficult. The increased excretion of water in diabetes mellitus, intermittent hydronephrosis, chronic interstitial nephritis, and in hysteria, may occasionally simulate that symptom in diabetes insipidus, but these conditions are otherwise readily differ- entiated. The prognosis in diabetes insipidus is very variable. Each one must be judged upon its own merits. At times the health does not suffer appreciably. Cure may sometimes follow an in- tercurrent affection such as measles. Idiopathic cases may last for many years, and terminate in a gradual loss of nutrition or in an intercurrent attack of pneumonia or with a slowly progressing tuberculosis. Once anorexia sets in the end is not far distant. When a gross cerebral lesion is present the diagnosis is bad. When the disease appears in childhood the general develop- ment may be retarded and deficient. The pathology of diabetes insipidus consists essentially of an error in the controlling power of the vasomotor nerves of the kidney. In animals polyuria has been shown to follow stimulation of the floor of the fourth ventricle or cerebellum. In man the stimulation may