BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS 20 with blood from the rupture of small bronchial vessels. Course and Event.—In the milder cases the general health may not be greatly impaired ; but in course of time, especially when the lungs have become emphysematous, the heart becomes dilated, and evidence of cardiac failure is shown by chronic gastric catarrh, enlargement of the liver, and in some cases by albuminous urine. These secondary complications are no doubt largely due to the ail'ections which are the real cause of the bronchitis. Various other pulmonary complications, such as bronchiectasis and chronic interstitial pneumonia, are liable to occur, and the patient sooner or later succumbs to a general failure of health and strength, unless an acute exacerbation, which is very liable to arise, or some intercurrent afif'ection, carries him off. Diagnosis.—The cough and expectoration without consolidation of the lung usually leaves no doubt as to the diagnosis. From pleurisy it is distinguished by the persistence of vocal fremitus and resonance, and respiratory murmur, and by the absence of bulging, and by the presence of the rales; from pneumonic con- solidation, by the absence of complete dulness, tubular breathing, and bronchophony. The conditions which are most liable to cause difficulty in diagnosis are tuberculous deposits, and bronchitis due to the presence of aneurysm or of new growths pressing on the bronchi. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends mainly on the age of the patient and the coexistence of complications. Once established, it is only in the comparatively young and robust that complete recovery can he hoped for. In older patients the presence of well-marked emphysema, bronchiectasis, or any valvular heart affection must add to the dangers of intercurrent affections or acute exacerbations. CLINICAL VARIETIES The condition of the muscle of the right heart is of even greater import than the integrity of the cardiac valves, for the latter defect is often largely discounted by com- pensatory hypertrophy, whereas a degenerated and weak cardiac muscle is unable to cope with the demand for increased energy which is made on the right heart in bronchitis, and often fails to respond to any treatment. The above description applies to the great majority of cases of varying severity. Atten- tion has already been directed to the clinical importance of various diatheses and diseases which predispose to bronchitis. Often enough the bronchitis is only a prominent symptom of some such underlying disease, and some writers distinguish various clinical types, such as renal, gouty, syphilitic bronchitis, and so forth. But there are certain forms of chronic bronchitis which call for special mention, viz. (a) Bronchorrhcea, characterised by excessive secretion of glairy, semi-ti"ansparent matter, like white of egg mixed with water, containing greyish or yellowish-green masses; or the expectoration may be thin, Avatery, and clear— bronchorrhcea serosa. The cough and dyspnoea are usually paroxysmal, either limited to an hour or two on awakening in the morning, or coming on at intervals of several hours dui'ing the day, the amount expectorated being very large, sometimes as much as three or four quarts in the course of the day. During the paroxysms, dyspnoea is urgent; but in the intervals, and in fact throughout the day in some cases where the cough and expectoration only occur on waking in the morning, dyspnoea may be absent or scarcely noticeable. Rales and rhonchi are audible before and during the periods of expectoration ; but in the intervals, until the secretion has re-accumulated, the auscultation may reveal comparatively few adventitious sounds. These cases are almost invariably associated with some degree of bronchial dilatation. Patients may continue to live with little alteration in their condition for many years ; but gradually the symptoms become more pronounced, the dyspnoea increases with a tendency to asthmatic symptoms, and generally failure of the circulation, increasing oedema, cyanosis, and impairment of health and strength. (h) Dry Chronic Bronchitis.—The catarrhe sec of Ltennec is characterised by paroxysms of very troublesome and severe cough, with very scanty expectoration of small masses of tough, viscid, hyaline mucus. The affection is almost always complicated by emphysema, and is usually associated with gout. It is generally regarded as due to congestion of the tubes; but "bronchial spasm is doubtless largely associated with the congestion; indeed, bronchial suscepti- bility and bronchial irritation are its unmistak- able etiological factors " (Ewart). (c) Foetid Bronchitis.—In the course of a long-standing chronic bronchitis, the expectora- tion occasionally assumes almost suddenly, and without apparent cause, a dirty grey colour with a peculiar putrid odour. Putrid expectora- tion is met with in bronchiectasis, gangrene, and other destructive lesions of the lung, and in perforating empyema, and is usually due to one or other of these affections; but rarely it supervenes in uncomplicated cases of bronchitis. Its onset is generally attended with rigors, and with all the appearance of the occurrence of acute bronchitis superadded to the chronic affection, with fever of typhoid character, and attended with intense depression. The ex- pectoration consists of a greyish-white alkaline, putrid, muco-purulent fluid, with a peculiar, sickly, characteristic odour which is said to suggest the smell of acacia blossoms. The amount secreted is very considerable ; the sputa