DRUG ERUPTIONS 427 ;i psoriasis wliich difters in no respect fi'oni the usual chronic type. Bromine and tlie Bromides. — Probaljly no variety of drug eruption is more fre(juently observed, or is capable of wider variation, than that due to the administration of the salts of bromine. In general characteristics the rashes produced resemble closely the group of iodine eruptions to be considered subsequently; but they always present shades of difference to the accustomed eye; and two important points of differentiation in general are these—they are always much slower in development, and they are much less likely to become confluent over a large area and to assume a bullous or gangrenous type. In form they range over the whole nomenclature of primary skin lesions, and may be pustular, erythematous, urticarial, bullous, or squamous in type—the above sequence in- dicating approximately the relative order of frequency. 'i!he papulo-2mstu/ar form—known as " liromic acne"—is the most frequent, and occurs in about 75 per cent of all persons taking potassium bromide. It appears most commonly on the face, chest, back, and in the neighliourhood of the hair follicles of the thigh and leg ; and it may viwy between the extremes of being in the simplest form discrete and acne-like, and in the gravest form coyiflucnt and furuncular, though between these extremes many degrees of varia- tion will be found. The pustules are yellowish in coloiu-, seated on an inflamed base, and differ from those of simple acne in that they appear without the necessary pre-existence of come- dones, and they are not confined in distribution to regions where glandular sti'uctures naturally occur. They vary in size within wide limits, and in the confluent type they merge into each other, forming conglomerate groups, and gradu- ally increasing in size by the extension of their margins until they may eventually cover a considerable area. In the meantime the contents dry up and become covered with brownish crusts which are elevated on a zone of sur- rounding erythema, and which tend to become associated with a distinct and definite hyper- trophy of the underlying papillary bodies. This is the form to which Unna has specifically applied the term bromoderma 'jyitsttdo-tuheromnn. The discrete form differs from ordinary acne in that the inflammation is generally more acute, the lesions suppurate more rapidly, and the contents are of a more sero-purulent tj'pe. In the confluent form the presence of numerous pustidar points on a raised, soft, dusky-red, and painless base, and the disappearance of the lesions under a scab without the formation of a scar, but with a slightly persisting reddish-brown stain, serve to difterentiate it from all other erup- tions except those due to the iodides (Crocker). It is probable that individual idiosyncrasy plays a less important part in this than in the majority of other drug eruptions; iience its universality and the uniformity of its main characteristics. It is known that elimination of bromine takes place through many glandular tissues, principally the kidneys, and in a less degree by means of the salivary, sweat, and mammary glands, when the latter are function- ally active, as witness the many recorded cases in which symptoms of bromic eruption have occurred in infants suckled by those taking the drug. On this analogy it has been argued that the skin manifestations are due to its elimina- tion by the sebaceous glands, but many facts previously referred to throw doubt on the genuineness of this hypothesis. In connection with this theory attention may V)e directed to the fact, pointed out by Crocker, that the eruption very frequently begins in sear tissue, being even occasionally limited to it, a favourite site being in vaccination scars. It is needless to point out how entirely this is opposed to the fundamental premiss on which the theory of glandular elimination is based. It may be mentioned here, in order to avoid error, that in some cases the rash only makes its appearance after the discontinuance of the drug, and that also, as in the case of the iodine eruptions, where there is idiosyncrasy, small doses are more likely to evoke the symptoms than lai'ger ones. In this, as in most of these drug affections, the main indication of treatment is to stop the cause. The administration of liipior arsenicalis, 3-.^lH_, two or three times daily, is said to act as an eliminant. Local applications, such as lead or evaporating lotion, or salicylic acid (gr. j.ad on lint covered with gutta-percha tissue may be required when the inflammation is sevei'e or the skin siu-face broken. Liquor arsenicalis, or some preparation of ammonia, such as the carbonate or the aromatic spirit, added to the prescription containing the bromide, is said to markedly diminish if not entirely jjrevent the tendency towards the development of the eruption. In regard to the stoppage of the bromide in these cases it should be remembered that eminent authorities have laid down as a positive law that a direct relation exists lietween the intensity of the skin eruption and the efficacy of the drug as a remedy in the disease for which it is administered. This again is a point which can only be determined by carefid and individual observation. Cannabis Indica.—In one recorded case an acute vesicular eruption of very wide distribution followed a dose of one grain of the extract. It subsided in the coiu'se of a few days, the vesicles drying up and leaving crusts which gradually fell off (Hyde), ffidema of the face has been noticed as one of tlie synqitoms of chronic intoxication with this drug. Chloral Hydrate.—Tlie local effect of chloral as a cutaneous vesicarit is well known, and it has been largely recommended in certain cases