BUCHU diuretics in catarrhal affections of the bladder and urinary tract; it gives a marked odour to the urine. (Note: Buchu is an indeclinable word.) Buckthorn. See Cascara Sagrada. Bucnemia,. Elephant-leg (from Gr. fSov, augmentative particle, and Kvi]jj,ri, the leg). See FiLARiAsiy [ElepJiantiasix Arabxim). Budd's Cirrhosis.—Dyspeptic (non- alcoliolic) heijatic cirrhosis. See Liver, Diseases OF {Fortal Cirrhosis). Bude. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {En<jll>^h). Buffy Coa.t.—In slow clotting of the blood {e.g. in fevers) the red cells have time to sink somewhat, leaving the upper part of the clot of a paler colour, the grey or " buft'y coat." See Blood {Coagulation) ; Physiology, Blood {General Characters). Bug', Harvest. See Stinging Insects. Buhl's Disease.—Acute fatty degenera- tion of the new-born infant, with hteinorrhages in the heart, liver, and kidneys. See New-born Infant {Diseases, Buhl's Disease). Buist's iViethod of Artificial Respiration. <S'ee Asphyxia {Resuscitation, Infants). Bulam Fever. See Yellow Fever. Bulb.—With the meaning of a somewhat splierieal dilatation this term is widely used in anatomy and physiology, e.g. hair-bulb, bulb of the ui'ethra, vaginal bulbs, end-bulbs, bulb of the ovary, eye, etc. The bulb of the spinal cord is the medulla oblongata. ^Vet and dry bulb thermometers are used in liygrometry. See Meteor<il()(iy {Hygrometry). Bulbar Paralysis.—A disease due to an artection of the neurones of the motor nerves of the medulla oblongata ; glosso-labio-laryngeal paralysis. See Paralysis {Bulbar Paralysis) ; Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Nerve Deaf- ness) ; Muscles,Diseases ov {ProgressiveMuscular Atrophy in Young Children) ; Syringomyelia (Symptoms, Diagnosis). Bulgaria. See Balneology {Turlcey, Bulgaria). Bulimia.—Inordinate or voracious appe- tite, associated with faintness; bulimiasis. See Appetite {Increase). Bulla.— A bleb or blister. See Skin, Diseases of ; Leprosy ; Pemphigus ; etc. Buller'S Shield. See Conjunctiva, Diseases {Purulent Ophthalmia, Treatment). VOL. II FOLIA 33 Bullet Wounds. See Medicine, For- ensic (Wounds from Firearms) ; Wounds (Varieties). BulpiSS.—A parasitic skin disease of the nature of ringworm, occurring in Nicaragua, and probably identical with the disease Carate of South America. See Skin, Parasites {Tinea). Bungarus. See Snake-Bites. Bunge'S Law.—The fact that a parallel- ism exists between the ashes of the milk of the mother animal and the ashes of the foetus; it does not hold with regard to the human foatus and human milk. Bu nion. See Deformities {Hallux Valgus): BuphthalmuS.—Literally "ox-eye" ; is a bulging or jirotrusion of the whole eye, with increase of tension ; it is known also as megalophthalmus, congenital glaucoma, and hydrophthalmus congenitus ; it is due to a malformation iir tlie eye {e.g. want of separation of the iris from the cornea in the region of the ligamentum pectinatum [vide Ballantyne's Ante- natal Pathology, vol. ii. 410, 1904]). Burdach'S Column. See Spinal Cord {Ariatouiy, Ascending Tracts, Dorso-lateral Column). Burdwan Fever. See Malaria. Burgundy Pitch.—Pix Burgundica, or the resin from the spruce fir, is used as a basis for plasters; it contains pimaric acid, a volatile oil, etc. ; the official preparation is Emplastrum Picis. Buriai-Places. See also Cremation.— The disposal of the dead commonly takes the form of earth-to-earth burial, for cremation is not yet commonly practised and A'ault burial is much restricted. Burial - places or cemeteries should be situated in the suburbs of large towns, and should, at the same time, be easy of access. Old cemeteries in the centre of a town should be closed ; they may be converted into open spaces, but must not be built upon (save for the purposes of enlarging a place of worship). A clay soil, a chalky one, and a loose gravel one are all unsuitable for a cemetery, the best kind of earth being a dry loam. The drainage of the surface soil should be thorough; there should be no wells in common use in the neighbourhood of the cemetery. Trees and shrubs should be planted. One-fourth to one-half acre jDer thou- sand persons of the population is the space which ought to be set aside in towns for the purposes of burial. Individual graves should not be more than eight feet deep, for dissolution of the body takes place more quickly near the surface of the groimd; at the same time, four feet of earth should always cover an adult body, and 3