DRUG ERUPTIONS 428 as a substitute for tlie preparations of can- tharides; but considering the large number of affections in which it is employed internally it cannot be generally recognised as a frequent producer of cutaneous eruptions. In its special features the rash usually appears within a short period, has only a very limited duration, and is unaccompanied as a rule by constitutional or local disturbances, though in some cases itching or irritation has been observed. The rash when it occurs is generally erythematous in type, but may present the appearance of dusky-red papules surrounded by an area of diffused redness ex- tending about the affected parts, which are mainly the face, neck, and neighbourhood of the large articulations. In some cases it may be morbilliform in character; and urticarial, vesicular, and petechial forms have also been described. A remarkable relationship exists in all the forms between the ingestion of food, and more especially of alcohol, and the develop- ment of the rash. This has even been observed in children taking the drug, when alcohol, in the form of a tincture, has been prescribed in combination. In all cases the effects produced are probably due to the influence which chloral exerts upon the vaso-motor system. Copaiba.—The type of the eruption is mainly erythematous and papulai', or more essentially morbilliform, with a special predilection for the neighbourhood of the hands, arms, feet, knees, and abdomen. In its most characteristic form it consists of " rose-coloured, irregular patches, grouped or discrete, and only just perceptibly raised above the surface." The redness dis- appears completely on pressure. Intense itching- may be present, and a form which successfully simulates urticaria is well known. The rash fades rapidly on withdrawal of the drug, and is succeeded by slight desquamation. These forms are commonly met with, and may follow the administration of the drug for genito-urinary conditions or for chronic chest affections. It is probable that in the majority of cases the cutaneous manifestations are due to the elimi- nation of the volatile oil by the sweat glands; but in the urticarial form they may be due to the gastric irritation which is so constantly associated with the use of the drug, and which is so largely a factor in the production of ordinary urticaria. As curiosities of derma- tology, vesicular, bullous, and petechial erup- tions have been described as sequelte to the administration of copaiba. Clinically its im- portance consists in the differential diagnosis between the drug eruption and the rash of measles, of rotheln (rubella), or of an erythe- matous syphilide. Cuhehs, which is much less extensively used, in this country at least, than copaiba, produces in a few cases similar cutaneous manifestations which do not require separate description. Ergot.—The subcutaneous injection of ergot not infrequently induces a painful, dark-coloured swelling at the point of puncture. Erythema, with swelling of the parts, vesicular and pustular eruptions, and gangrene of the extremities, may occur from its internal administrations, but the latter rarely from its use in medicinal doses. Iodine and the Iodides.—Characteristic types of these eruptions, to be described presently in detail, have resulted from the extei-nal applica- tion of iodine, such as repeated painting of a part with the tincture or liniment, or the injection of some such preparation to excite inflanmiation in a serous cyst; but they are most frequently observed to follow the ingestion of some of its alkaline salts, even in the most minute doses — and iodide of potassium, the most frequently administered, may be taken in its effects for the whole group. It may be here incidentally stated that, according to many observers, the sodium salt is the least and the ammonium salt the most active in producing cutaneous manifestations, and that in many cases of pronounced idiosyncrasy the strontium salt may be taken with impunity. In all the varieties of drug eruptions no more con- glomerate group can be found, and it is just this absence of clinical unanimity which renders their recognition difficult and at the same time imperative; for in several cases fatal results have followed from ignorance of the cause which determined the skin lesions. As Morrow well puts it, " iodide of potassium may be con- tinued, possibly in increasing doses, for the very condition which it has caused." No more polymorphous eruptions are known to dermatology than those due to the iodine compounds. As in the case of the bromine salts, the commonest form is the pustular, but other types met with are the erythematous, vesicular or bullous, urticarial, and purpuric varieties, the two latter belonging to the category of dermatological cariosities. The most frequent of all is that to which Unna has applied the term iododerma pustulo- tuherosu7n. The rash begins as small papules rapidly becoming pustular, and occurring most frequently on the face, upper part of thorax in front and behind, and sometimes on the ex- tremities. In its early stages it closely simulates the bromide eruption, to which the false term " bromic acne " has been commonly applied. These lesions may remain discrete or become confluent, and so merge into some of the more aggravated types. That the eruption is not due to glandular elimination has already been stated; its distribution does not always corre- spond to that of the supposed eliminating glands, nor does it present the universality and symmetry necessary to a circulatory poison. Microscopic examination of excised portions of skin has further shown that far from elimination taking place from the sebaceous follicles, as would be evidenced by marked changes there,