59 CATALEPSY the patient is, at the instant, usually aware that she is about to fall. With perhaps some vague efforts to kneel or to reach a seat, she sinks helplessly to the floor or subsides in her chair. Apparently, in a typical seizure, the conscious- ness of the patient is as it may be in a deep swoon. The last fact that she is aware of is that she has lost control of her muscles, and she appears to know no more until she recovers some minutes or hours or even days later. She has then no recollection of what has transpired meantime. Whether or not there be any iso- lated mental activity during a seizure, we have no means of knowing. Meanwhile motor .symptoms of a most in- teresting character have been developed. There is no violent tonic spasm in catalepsy. But there is fixation of the muscles of a nature which is curious and not easy of explanation. An epileptic will crash to the ground as a rule, and then, of course, clonic spasms follow. A hysterical patient will fall with some slight arrangement of her limbs and skirts, and other signs of apparent purpose in her movements or in her pose. But in a typical cataleptic seizure the patient drops off as in syncope, and her muscles become fixed in the first attitude at which she comes to rest. If you try to lift a limb, or rearrange the body generally, you will find that the muscles have stiffened as if in rigor mortis. Then by degrees they gently relax, so as to adapt the pose to the action of gravitation, and the trunk and head and limbs all sink flatter on the ground or couch. At this stage the muscles have reached the characteristic con- dition of plastic rigidity, the distinctive feature of catalepsy known as Flexihilitas cerea. The figure is not now cast in metal but in wax, and is plastic imder your fingers. It retains any pose which you make it assume. There is no automatic movement of a purposive kind, no lifting of an arm or hand or foot, and there are no spasms. If you raise a limb to a position of strain, the muscles will retain that pose for a time, and then by slow degrees will allow the limb to sink to a position determined by gravity. At this stage the sensibility of the patient will be abolished. The skin is apparently quite insensitive to touch, to heat, to pain, to elec- tricity. Special sensibility is abolished. Reflex irritability is also in abeyance. Even the con- junctival reflex is probably abolished. Respira- tion is very shallow ; cardiac action is slight; and the temperature slowly falls. A typical seizure has been described. Very commorily there will be important modifications in the symptoms. In particular the conscious- ness and the sensibility of the patient may not be abolished, though powerlessness and plastic rigidity may have supervened. The reflexes may not be greatly impaired, though common and special sensibility is in abeyance. Hyper- sensibility has been reported as a rare variation. As in other such diseases, there are cases of spurious catalepsy, in some of which symptoms of hysteria are conspicuous, and cataleptoid elements are frequently prominent in allied affections. Treatment. — JDurim/ an attack treat the patient as for an epileptic seizure. Put the body in a position of ease, and do not disturb the patient. In the majority of cases spon- taneous awakening occurs at the most after a few hours. It is difficult to see what good is served by violent attempts to arouse patients from coma. (Jentle means may occasionally be tried—a sharp puft'of wind on the face, a breath of smelling salts, a pinch of snufl', or even a very mild splashing of cold water. Avoid emetics and painful shocks of electricity. If the attack continues, food may be necessary. If so, pass it into the stomach by the tube, or, in the first instance, empty the rectum and administer a nutrient enema. Draw oft' the urine if there are reasons for supposing that there is any con- siderable accumulation. If the patient is com- fortably in bed and these measures are adopted, there is no reason for supposing that the cataleptic sleep will be hurtful, even if it is protracted over several days. Afte?- an attack, treat the patient as for neurasthenia. Avoid regarding the case as hysterical. Consider it rather as epileptoid. Try to discover any mental or physical source of irritation, and remedy it if possible. As in chorea, the patient may be greatly benefited by a change of scene, especially if that entails a removal from the chief source of annoyance or excitement. Special regard should be had to pelvic factors in the disease. Prognosis.—The prognosis in each seizure is good, and the prospect of innnunity from attacks is also good, and increasingly so according to the age of the patient. Differential Diagnosis. — In stupor there is more or less persistent mental disorder. In hysteria the plasticity of the limb receives some added effort of its own. A cataleptic limb is moved from one position to another, and will retain the position in which it is placed for some time. A hysterical limb generally moves. By judicious change of pressure or of direction you may observe the hysterical limb continue to move without your aid, or continue to oppose a strain which you have withdrawn. In tetarius there is spasm, and genci'ally obvious signs of pain. In epilepsy there are first spasms, and in the later stages the plastic rigidity is absent. In the cataleptic state induced by hypnotism the symptoms, in this country, vary considerably, and in general there is, as in hysteria, a feeling on manipulating the limbs as if the patient were following your movements. In death physical signs discoverable by auscultation are wanting, and the rigor mortis is not plastic. Nature and Pathology.—We have no definite