494 EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUELAE perforation or from the surface of the membrana tympani itself. Occasionally they arise from the lining membrane of the antrum or mastoid cells, and more rarely still from the walls of the external auditory meatus, in which latter case they result from an otitis externa of the pars ossea. (2) Fibrous polypi are much less frequently met with, and consist of dense layers of fibrous tissue covered by tessellated epithelial cells. Ramifying through the fibrous strands are small blood-vessels. They originate from the periosteum lining the tympanic cavity or from that of the external auditory meatus. (3) Myxomatous polypi are distinctly rare and have the structure of gelatinous mucous tissue. (4) Angiomatous polypi consist of a dense interweaving of blood-vessels supported by a framework of fibrous tissue covered by strati- fied epithelium. They are consequently very vascular and bleed freely when removed. (5) Malignant polypi may be either of a carcinomatous or sarcomatous structure. If the former, they may result as the outcome of prolonged suppurative middle ear disease. They are characterised by a marked tendency to sloughing and to spontaneous hfemorrhage. They also rapidly invade adjoining bony struc- tures, producing very extensive destruction of tissue. Sarcomatous polyj^i may originate within the middle ear, and when appearing externally may present all the appearances of benign growths. Their rapid recurrence after removal and their tendency to spontaneous htemorrhage should excite suspicion as to their real nature. At times they arise from the fibrous sheath of the auditory nerve or from the fibrous stroma of the dura mater, and invade the middle ear in their progress to the surface. In the treatment of benign aural polypi the primary indication is to treat the inflamed surface from which they originate. When small, soft, and ojdematous, their further pro- gress may be checked by the local application of astringent or caustic preparations. Such drugs as perchloride of iron, nitrate of silver, chromic acid, or trichloracetic acid may be em- ployed with advantage, the drug being either fused to the end of a suitable aural probe or applied in solution upon the end of a cotton- armed probe. To expedite their destruction it is often advantageous to crush them with an aural crush forceps, or nip as much of the growth away as possible with a suitable forceps, and then to apply some caustic drug to the so- called root or base. When sufficiently large, it is advisable to remove as much of the growth as possible by means of a suitable aural snare, the loop being made to grasp the pedicle as near to its base as possible. Hsemorrhage, which is at first fairly profuse, is readily con- trolled by means of warm syringing or by tampons of some antiseptic gauze. Repeated applications of caustic, e.g. chromic acid, should be made to the base of the growth until its disappearance has been assured. Astringent lotions, especially when containing rectified spirits, are valuable adjuncts in the subsequent treatment of the case, acting as they do by dehydrating the tissues and causing the coagu- lation of their albuminous elements. The treatment of malignant polypi is, un- fortunately, far from satisfactory. Occasionally sarcomatous growths originating within the cavity of the middle ear have been successfully eradicated. The tendency, however, of carci- nomatous growths to invade the neighbouring bony structures makes operative interference very undesirable. Caries and Necrosis.—As the result of pro- longed suppurative inflammation of the mucous membrane lining the tympanic cavity, or as the result of inflammation of the periosteum cover- ing the mastoid process, caries or necrosis of the surrounding bony parietes may ensue. Usually these affections of the bone commence in early life, and are frequently associated with an underlying tuberculous process. Large portions of the temporal bone may become necrotic and may be exfoliated. Thus sequestra containing the whole or part of the cochlea, the annulus tympanicus, or posterior wall of the mastoid process, ai'e by no means infrequently met with in cases of protracted suppurative catarrh. In the mastoid region fistulous tracts may lead to the interior of the mastoid cells, or may lead from the posterior wall of the antrum into the groove for the sigmoid sinus. The surrounding bone is commonly discoloured and softened. The bony walls of the aqueductus Fallopii are prone to be affected, leading to exposure of the facial nerve and consequent facial paralysis. In cases of attic suppuration the outer wall of the recessus epitympanicus is frequently softened and eroded. The ossicles, more especially the malleus and the incus, are also frequently found to be carious, and in severe cases of middle ear suppuration are prone to become spontaneously exfoliated. In tuber- culous cases the whole of the interior of the mastoid process may become broken down, softened, and carious, a mere shell of bone re- maining. The inner wall of the middle ear (the pars promontoria) is also frequently im- plicated, leading to exposure of the contents of the internal ear. The posterior wall of the external auditory meatus may also become affected, in which case its cutaneous covering becomes swollen and infiltrated. Springing from its carious surface are small masses of exuberant granulation tissue. The indications of caries and necrosis are subjective and objective. Pain may be present,