67 CATARACT iris, should they be caught at all in the external opening, the capsule is ruptured with the cysto- tome. The incision of the capsule is made in different ways by different operators. The main point, however, to attend to is that it should be sufficiently free. This is best effected by scratching the capsule several times, so as to make sure that the cystotome is not merely moved on the surface of the lens below the capsule without enlarging the opening first made in that membrane. The cataractous lens is then caused to become engaged with its upper edge in the external wound. This is done by pressure on tlie lower half of the cornea. When it has thus become engaged, further pressure, followed by gliding the scoop used for the purpose upwards, causes the lens to escape out of the eye. Particular care must next be taken to replace any iris that may be caught in the ends of the incision. This is best done with a soft caoutchouc or tortoise-shell repositor. In the process of delivery it usually happens that some of the soft cortical portion of the lens is rubbed off and remains in the eye. Subsequent gentle pressure on the cornea, which is most conveniently made through the lid, enables one to get rid of this. The pressure causes the external wound to gape slightly, and at the same time rubs the cortex through it. Before applying any dressing it is necessary to make sure that the lips of the wound are in good apposition, and that they do not entangle any capsule or cortex. The repositor should be run along between them, so as at the same time to flatten out any flap of conjunctiva which may have been cut in making the incision. When extraction is performed without iridec- tomy, what is called the si7ivple as opposed to the combined extraction, the external wound has to be made slightly larger. The pressure, too, must be rather greater, as the lens has to pass in front of the iris, which necessitates also m;iking the wound gape to a greater extent. In tliis operation cortical remains are removed witli the curette, and not by pressure, after the iris has been carefully replaced, should the pupil not of itself have recovered its circular sliape. The Question of Iridectojiy or no Iridec- tomy.—Whether the simple or the combined operation is to be preferi-ed is one upon which much has been said, and one upon which different surgeons hold different views. The advantages of the simple opei'ation are, that no wound is made in the iris, that the cosmetic eff'ect of a round pupil aimed at in this operation is better than that of a coloboma even when the colo- boma is made upwai-ds, and that peripheral attachments of the iris to the inner surface of the external wound are less common. The dis- advantages are that cortical remains are not so easily removed after the delivery of the lens, and that prolapse of the iris into the wound is more apt to take place than when iridectomy is done. In addition, the circular mobile pupil aimed at is by no means always got. Further, the simple operation is not so easy, and on this account alone not to be recommended to inex- perienced operators. There is no difference in the result, so far as the acuity of the restored vision goes, which is got by the simple as compared with the combined extraction. The simple extraction is in other respects, however, the more ideally perfect one. In making the somewhat larger section which is required in the simjjle extraction there is some difficulty often in preventing the iris from falling in front of the knife as the anterior chamber empties. The blade must therefore be kept pushed well forward, raising as it were the cornea from the chamber. A miotic should also be used immediately before making the section, so that as soon as the iris is returned the pupil may be contracted. The eye should be examined from half an hour to an hour after the operation is completed. If the pupil at this stage is found to be contracted and quite circular, there is practically no danger of iris prolapse taking place. If, on the other hand, it is not circular, but hitched up towards the wound, the round movable pupil aimed at will not be got, and there is in addition a strong probabiHty tiiat healing will be impeded and more or less unnecessary risk run by prolapse. Under these circumstances the best thing to do undoubtedly is to perform an iridectomy at once, and there- fore convert the simple into the combined ex- traction. This is very much more satisfactory than any treatment of prolapse at a later stage in the healing process. In the experience of the writer this abandonment of the intended simple extraction is required in 10 per cent of cases in which it is begun. In this respect, however, individual differences must of course exist. This is hardly the place to discuss fully the relative merits of the simple and combined operations. Some surgeons perform exclusively the foz'mer, and some exclusively the latter, whilst others again make a selection of cases which appear to them most suited for the one or other method of operation. The writer, after a very extensive experience of both operations, would, however, off'er the following advice to less experienced operators :— 1. Do not attempt the simple operation at all luitil sufficient experience of the combined operation has been obtained by the performance of two or three hundred extractions. "2. In the first simple extractions undertaken, select cases of fully ripe cataract in, compara- tively speaking, young individuals, say up to the age of sixty or sixty-five. 3. Do not hesitate to abandon the simple extraction aimed at whenever the conditions above described indicate a risk of more or less troublesome prolapse.