DIPHTHERIA 391 exudation usually clears off without leaving any loss of tissue, yet occasionally sloughing and ulceration result, and may lead to septicwmia. The most important and striking complication, or more frequently sequel, of diphtheria is paralysis. The proportion of cases in which it occurs varies. At the Eastern Hospital daring 1892 and 1893, before tlic introduction of the antitoxin treatment, it developed in about 18 per cent of those patients who survived the acute stage of the disease, and in 12 per cent of all cases. It occurs more frequently, relatively as well as absolutely, in children than in adults; it is more often observed to follow a severe than a mild attack of diphtheria; and though it may succeed any form of the disease, yet it is met with more frequently after the faucial variety. Paralysis usually sets in during the second, third, or fourth week from the commencement of the attack of diphtheria, but it may arise as early as the fifth day, or as late as the twelfth week. The first symptom is commonly a nasal voice, or a regurgitation of liquid through the nose during the act of drinking. The soft palate will be found to be motionless, and its sensation and reflex impaired or lost. Often the paralysis remains limited to the palate, but it may progress to a greater or less extent, various muscles or groups of muscles becoming aft'ected in a sequence more or less regular. The ciliary muscles are involved early, and the patient is imable to define near objects clearly. Then the gait becomes unsteady and the lower extremities weak. Strabismus and other signs of ocular paralysis are observed ; and, lastly, the muscles of the neck, trunk, upper extremities, and respii'ation being afi'ected, the paralysis becomes generalised, and the patient is help- less. The frequency with wliicli the difi'erent groups of muscles are involved may be gathered from the following figures :—Of 125 consecutive cases of paralj'sis analysed by the writer (see Brain, 1895), in 102 the palate was affected ; in 56 the ciliary muscles ; in 52 the lower extremi- ties ; in 26 the external ocular muscles ; in 21 the upper extremities ; in 14 the larynx ; and in 10 the diaphragm. In 19 cases difficulty in swallowing was present; but this number is probably too small, because many patients are placed on nasal feeding at an early stage of the disease, so that paralysis of the pharyngeal muscles occui-ring subsequently escapes notice. It is rare for the sphincters of the bladder or rectum to be involved. Occasionally there is weakness of the oral muscles, but marked facial paralysis is exceptional. Paralysis of the tongue is very rare. Frequently the paralj'sis reniauis limited ; this was the case in 66 of the 125 cases (52-8 per cent). In 28 it was confined to the palate ; in 17 to the ciliary muscles ; in 11 to the palate and ciliary muscles ; in 6 to the palate and legs ; in 3 to the palate and ocular muscles; and in 1 to the respiratory muscles. Of the extrinsic muscles of the eye tiie external recti (usually the left) are most often aft'ected. Complete ophthalmoplegia is rare. The reactions of the pupils become sluggish, but are seldom abolislied. In laryngeal para- lysis most commonly all the muscles are in- volved, so that there is aphonia and a toneless, ineffectual cough. Abductor paralysis is ex- cejjtional. The loss of muscular function is rarely com- plete, even in the most severe and generalised cases. There is paresis rather than paralysis. Sensation may also be impaired. Adults will complain of tingling or numbness of the tongue, fingers, and toes. Careful testing will then usually elicit impairment of common sensation. The special senses are very rai-ely affected. Optic neuritis and atrophy do not occur. The knee-jerks are as a rule abolished. Indeed it is not uncommon to find them absent in cases of diphtheria before paralysis has set in, and even in cases where there is never paralysis at any Lime. It may be months before they are restored. Occasionally a stage of exaggeration precedes their disappearance. The superficial reflexes remain in all but the most severe cases. In the generalised form there is much wasting. The electrical reactions are diminished ; but the reaction of degeneration is inicommon. Disturbance of the circulation was met with in 29 of the 125 cases. The heart's action is increased in frequency and is irregular. Occa- sionall}^ there are more severe symptoms such as are mentioned below under cardiac complica- tions. In 4 cases, in all of which there was paresis of the respiratory muscles, there was respiratory irregularity of the nature of " Cheyne-Stokes lireathing." In rare instances sudden attacks of dyspna?a occur (respiratory crises). Thirteen of the 125 cases (10-4 per cent) died of paralysis or its eff'ects; 6 of these were fatal from cardiac failure ; 4 from respiratory ])aralysis ; 2 from persistent vomiting and cardiac failure ; and 1 from convulsions. When there is respiratory paralysis there is great risk of suffocation from accumulation of mucus in the lungs. In paralysis of the pharynx and larynx the patient may be choked by entrance of food into the larynx if care in feeding be not exercised. In severe generalised cases the patient becomes very apathetic, and appears not to notice what is taking place around him. The saliva accunudates and dribbles from the mouth or, unless the head be lowered, trickles into the larynx. Muscular twitchings, especially of the face, are sometimes observed. The duration of an attack of paralysis varies from a few days to ten or twelve weeks, chiefly according to the extent of tlie pai-alysis. When