214 CONJUNCTIVA, DISEASES OF thing that produces an ulceration of the opposed surfaces, e.g. burns, the action of lime, certain forms of acute ophthalmia, tubercle, pemphigus, and operations on the conjunctiva. It affects the lower more frequently than the iipper lid. Different names have been applied according to its position, as syniblepharon posterius and an- terius. The former indicates that the union has involved the conjunctival fornices; the latter that those structures have remained free. Symblepharon totale means that the eyelids are adherent to the eyeball. Symblepharon, when marked, may cause disfigurement, irritability of the eye, limitation of the natural movements, or (rarely) interference with sight. Treatment. —Many operations, some of a highly ingenious character, have been devised. The simplest plan is to separate the lid from the eyeball by dissection, and then to cover the raw places with morsels of mucous membrane taken from the mouth. Another way is to make liberating incisions in the neighbouring conjunctiva, so that the edges of the wound in the ocular con- junctiva may be brought together with sutures. The treatment of symblepharon posterius is not so satisfactory. Pinguecula.—Pinguecula, like pterygium, is seldom seen save in elderly persons. It takes the form of a small yellowish elevation of tri- angular shape, situated in the ocular conjunctiva, usually on each side of the cornea. The tiimour consists of dense connective tissue (which has undergone a hyaline change) covered with thickened epithelium. Treatment.—Removal, if called for. Effusions into the Conjunctiva.—So loose is the texture of the ocular conjunctiva that effusions of blood or serum readily occur into its substance. In extensive hcemorrhages almost the entire ocular conjunctiva may be involved, and blood may even pass for some little distance beneath the epithelial layer of the cornea. It is not uncommon after squint operations for the iris to appear changed in colour, owing to a transudation of extravasated blood into the cornea. The subconjunctival htemorrhage becomes slowly absorbed. Its main causes are two in number: (1) fragility of the blood- vessels; (2) injury, operation, strain, or inflam- mation. Treatment.—Compresses of lead lotion. Chemosis, or distension of the conjunctiva by blood serum, may accompany severe inflamma- tions not only of the conjunctiva, but also of other parts of the eye or of its surroundings. It is, therefore, merely a symptom. In a marked case the cornea is overlapped by the swollen mucous membrane, which also protrudes from between the eyelids. Another kind of chemosis, thought to be of non-inflammatory origin, is sometimes observed in elderly persons. Some of the patients suffer from chronic Bright's disease, but, as a rule, the cause of the oedema is obscure. Holmes Spicer has recently described a form of chemosis, which he considers due to " obstruction of the lymph streams." The patients give a history of acute rheumatism, and the conjiuictival affection is associated with lacunar tonsillitis, glandular enlargement, and febrile movement. Lastly, chemosis has been noted by Swan M. Burnet after the internal administration of quinine. Staining of the Conjunctiva.—The conjunctiva may be stained by sevei-al agents, such as silver nitrate, protargol, largin, and iron sulphate. Lead acetate may lead to local ulceration and to deposition of the salt. Lithiasis of the Conjunctiva.—In gouty sub- jects deposits of uric acid may sometimes be found in the palpebral conjunctiva. Should they cause irritation they may be removed. Small yellowish concretions are quite frequently found in the palpebral conjunctiva of young persons. According to P\ichs, these are to be looked upon as tubular glands of new formation containing fungi (joilzrasen). Conjunctivitis from Dazzling.—A form of painful ophthalmia may quickly follow exposure to snow, electric light, or the X-rays. It is to be treated by cold applications to the lids, and by dropping a 2 per cent solution of cocaine into the conjunctival sac at intervals. It speedily gets well. Emphysema.—This implies a communication between the subconjunctival tissue and the nasal cavity or air-sinuses about the orbit. Traumatism is the usual cause. On palpation, characteristic crepitation can be elicited. Treat- ment.—Compressive bandage for a few hours. Tumours of the Conjunctiva Besides the tumours already mentioned the following new growths have been found in the conjunctiva: cysts, parasitic and otherwise, myxoma, papilloma, fibroma, polypi, epithelioma, sarcoma, and carcinoma. The treatment is to remove the tumour with the least possible disturbance of the neighbouring parts. A simple puncture, however, may sometimes suffice, as when dealing with the so-called " simple cyst." In the case of malignant growths (which generally originate from the limbus) it may be advisable to cauterise the spot of origin. In.juries of the Conjunctiva The conjunctiva maj^ be injured as the result of direct violence or the action of chemical agents. The degree of inflammation is often out of all proportion to the size of the irritant. Mechanical injuries, doubtless, quickly become complicated with pathogenic organisms, from which the conjunctival sac is seldom free. Moreover, microbes may have been introduced upon the surface of foreign bodies or in other ways. Injuries from lime deserve special mention. They are very formidable when