257 CRYOSCOPy Imt a short period, it will be seen that eryoscopy of the urine cannot be of such diagnostic im- portance as that of the blood. Sahli, indeed, believes that it presents few advantages over the estimation of the specific gravity, and states that in a urine free from sugar and proteid A may be calculated empirically by multiplying '075° C. by the last two figures of the sp.gr., carried to the third decimal place. In normal adults A is greater than 5, averaging from l-2° to 2'3° in the mixed twenty - four hours' urine. After copious draiights of water it may sink to "l", or with restricted intake of fluid rise to 3'5°. In breast-fed infants A is usually less than 8, vary- ing from -087° to '45°. On the whole, in renal inadequency A is low, ljut of more importance is the fact a damaged kidney has lost its power of responding to the demands made on it, hence alterations of the intake of water are not followed by the normal corresponding variations in A. The following figures from Koranyi illustrate this :—In a case of unilateral pyo- nephrosis A on the diseased side was "49°, on the healthy side 1-63". After copious drinking, values of "34° and "08° respectively were given. Hence the freezing-point of the urine is a test of renal efficiency only when considered in relation to the fluid ingested, and a low value of A is significant only when constant over considei'able periods of time. If Q = the quantity of urine excreted in twenty-four hours, QA expresses the molecular excretion, and (^)(A - 8) the osmotic energy in that time. A product equivalent to QA may be obtained by multipl^ang the last two figures of the sp. gr. by 2-33, and by the number of litres passed in twenty-four hours, which gives the approximate number of grains of solids ex- creted in that time (Sahli). From the above it will be seen that while in eryoscopy of the blood we have a valuable method of estimating the activity of the kidneys, the same cannot be said of eryoscopy of the tn-ine. In the present state of our knowledge the following geni^ral statements seem all that iire warranted :—S= -56 shows that at least one kidney is adecpiate, and justifies surgical opera- tion. If 8= -59 or more, nephrectomy is contra- indicated, though less serious operations—e.f/. nephrotomy—may be performed. If8=-G or more, it is probably unsafe to interfere until a more normal figure has been regained. When A IS persistently below "8 or "9 it indicates renal inadecpiacy; the urine of each kidney should be examined separately, or other tests (phloridzin or methylene blue) employed. A comparison of 6 and A should be made. Some guidance as to the efficiency of the kidney function may be gathered from the variations of A under copious drinking of water and restric- tion of fluid. Cryoscopy of other lluids, pathological and physiological—e.f/. the liquor amnii and effusions —has been practised, but the results obtained, vor.. II though scientifically interesting, have had as yet no practical outcome. Crypt.—A sm^dl cavity, or blindly-ending tube opening on a free surface (e.ff. the crypts of Lieberkulni in the intestinal mucous mem- brane). CryptitU is inflammation of such a cavity or cryjjt. Crypto-. — In compound words crypto- (Gr. K/d.'Trrus, hidden) signifies concealed or hidden. Cryptogrenetic Septicaemia {Ltiilic).—General sejjticiemia or blood-poisoning without any apparent local infection during life, and sometimes without any discoverable lesion after death; in many cases it is a terminal infection in individuals wasted by disease, but sometiuies it affects persons appai'ently healthy; the streptococcus pyogenes is the commonest micro-organism found. Cryptomenorrhcea. — Absence of menstruation due to structural anomalies (e.g. imperforate hymen, vaginal atresia) which cause the retention of the menstrual blood ; hidden menstruation. Hee Menstruation and its Dis- orders ; Uterus, Malformations of [Clinical Ai^piects, Symptoms Ujloijy). CryptOpllthai m US.~The teratologi- cal state in which the skin passes without a break from the forehead on to the cheek, entirely closing in the openings of the orbits; ablepha- ron; it is not to be confused with adhesion of the eyelids {anl-yloblepharon), or with adhesion of the palpebral and ocular conjunctival surfaces (symblcpharon). Cry ptOrch iSm. —Theteratological state in wiiicli one or both of the testicles is hidden, e.f/. retained in the abdomen or arrested in the inguinal canals. Crystaliina. See Skix, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Gj.ands {Smhiminfi). Crystalline Lens. See Lens, Crys- talline ; Ca'I'aract ; etc. Crystal Pox. See A'aricella. Crystals. See Charcot-Leyden's Crys- T.\LS; F.KCES (Abnormalities, Blood Crystals) ; Teichmann's Crystals ; etc. Cuban Itch.—A mild form of smallpox, regarded by some as a new disease; Philippine itch. Cubebae FruCtuS. See also Phak- MAc-oLOGY ; Prescriring; etc.—Cubebs or the dried fruit of Fiper cuOeba; the fruits, which 17