287 DEFORMITIES tarsal joint, and to a less dejj;ret; at the tarso- metatarsal and phalangeal articulations and at the ankle. Due recognition of the sites of deformity is essential to pi'oper treatment; for tiie back part of the foot, that is behind the medio-tarsal joint, nmst serve as a fixed point for the correction of the front part; and fixation of the back part can only be obtained liy leaving the tendo Achillis intact until the front part is restored. Congenital club-foot is more frequent in boys than in girls, and occurs about once in one thousand births. Double congenital valgus is more usual than single. Very frequently with club-foot of congenital origin, meningocele, spina bifida, pai'tial or complete, amputation of tlie limbs, absence of the fingers, polydactylism, syndactylism, and absence of the bones of the leg or foot are found to coexist. Degrees.—The deformity varies according to age. First Degree—The foot can be moment- arily replaced by manual force. Second Degree —The foot cannot be i-eplaced manually. On attempting forcible reposition there remains some adduction or extension of the foot, and the sole cannot be planted squarely on the ground, and the great toe is much separated from the second. Third Degree—Seen in children and adults, the foot is in a rigid and resistant state with aggravation of the deformity and strong contraction of the soft parts. Fourth Degree —The deformity is inveterate and of old stand- ing, and much malposition of the bones is present with the thickening of tiie soft tissues, and for- mation of false bursre on the outer side of the foot over the bonj^ prominences. The foot may be so much distorted that the patient walks on the dorsum, and the sole of the foot looks upwards and backwards. Morbid Anatomy.—-Authors are agreed that in talipes equino-varus there exists extension of the astragalus upon the leg at the ankle-joint with twisting downwards and inwards of its head and nock, and inward subluxation of tlie scaphoid, elevation of the tuberosities of the os calcis, and rotation of the same bone around its vertical axis. The bones are modelled first of all in cartilage, and so long as they remain unossified they may still be moulded to a normal shape and no extensive operation is needed. Without discussing the minutiiie of the morbid anatomy of club-foot it is necessary to remark that the angle of the neck of the astragalus is increased from thirty-eight to about fifty degrees. An astragalus taken from an adult case of club-foot presents several new features. Its body is no longer square but ti'apezoid, and even triangular, and tlie head protrudes from tlie front of the ankle-joint. The scaplioid is found to be much atropiiied, and its tubercle has very nearly dis- appeai-ed. On the anterior aspect of the internal malleolus is a new facet for articulation witli the scaphoid. The ligaments on the dorsum and external border of the foot are elongated, and those in tiie sole and on tiie internal liorder are contracted. Tlie plantar fascia is also contracted. The tendons at fault are the tendo Achillis, tiliialis anticus and posticus, extensor proprius pollicis, the flexor longus digitorum, and the flexor longus pollicis. Other somewhat remote lesions are met with associated with congenital club-foot. One interesting lesion is genu recurvatum witii absence of tlie patella, anotiier is scoliosis. 77te Obstacles to Reduction in Congenital Talipes Equinu-Varus arise (1) in the infant, from the altered direction of the neck of the astragalus, the contracted anterior fasciculus of the internal lateral ligament, the contracted astragalo - scaphoid and calcaneo-scaphoid liga- ments ; (2) in tlie adult, from the profound alteration in the shajie of the bones, from the formation of new joints, from fixation of the ligaments and tendons in their abnormal attach- ments and course. Prognosis.—The points in any given case on which information will be sought are the follow- ing : {a) Can a perfect foot be obtained ? {h) Will a shapely foot result from treatment? (c) Will the patient be able to walk comfortably and rapidly ? {d) What possibility is tliere of relapse, and, if relapse occur, can the foot again be rectified 1 (e) The duration of treatment 1 The answer to question (a) depends upon the age at which treatment is begun and the degi'ee of deformity. Many cases of congenital varus of the first and second degrees are cured if treatment is begun before walking is attempted. Cases of the tliird degree, especially after weight has been borne on the deformed feet, seldom give perfect results. In any event, persistency in treatment is essential, and it is the duty of the surgeon to insist that relapse is a likely event so long as growth is going on, and every care must be taken to pi-event it. (b) A shapelj^ foot will often result from early and continued treat- ment, but in some instances there w'ill always remain a square-toed appearance and the foot is ungainly. (c) The question of comfortable wallcing depends upon the absence of cicatricial material after treatment. Tarsectomies and such like procedures sliould therefore be avoided if possible, (d) As to tlie possibility of relapse, there is every likelihood of it in congenital cases unless jDcrsistent care is exercised all through childhood and adolescence, but relapsed varus is capable of much improvement by the methods to be detailed subsequently, (e) The duration of time required for treatment depends on the degree of deformity and the method adopted. The slower ortliopfcdic methods are effectual but tedious. A deformity of moderate severity can be reduced by manipulation and wrenching in two to three montlis. Diagnosis.—Some ditticulty will arise in dis- tinguishing in a child congenital and paralytic equino-varus, but the main points are, that in paralytic equino-varus the limb is wasted, cold,