146 CHOROID, DISEASES OF Subsequent to the rupture there is frequently a tendency for masses of pigment to appear round the exposed sclera. Concussion Choroiditis. — Rupture of the choroid is often accompanied by macular choroidal degeneration. C h Oro id erem i a.—Congenital absence of choroid or of its epithelium. Choroiditis. See Choroid, Diseases of {Choroiditis); see also Amblyopia {Symptoms); Colour Vision {Acquired, Choroido-retinitis); Cornea {Interstitial Keratitis) ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro - Spinal {Synq^toms, Special Senses, Eyes); Syphilis {Tertiary, Eye, Choroid- itis) ; Syphilis {Children, Eye, Choroiditis); Vision, Field of {Central Choroiditis). ChoroidO - CyciitiS. — Inflammation affecting both the choroid and the ciliary body. See Choroid, Diseases of {Irido-choroiditis); Iris and Ciliary Body {Cyditis); Glaucoma. ChoroidO-iritiS.—Inflammation of both choroid and iris. See Iris and Ciliary Body {Iritis). C h O ro i d O- ret i n it is.—Inflammation of the choroid, extending to the retina. See Choroid, Diseases op {Retino-Choroiditis). CilOroid Plexus. See Brain, Physio- logy {Lymphatic Circulation); Hydrocephalus {Etiology); Physiology, Nervous System {Brain). Clirom-.—In compound words chrom-, or chroma-, or chrome- means " relating to colour," as in chromatelopsis (colour-blindness); chroma- tophohia (sensitiveness of the eye to certain colours); chromatosis (a morbid condition of the skin as to pigmentation); chromocyte (a red blood corpuscle), etc., as well as in the words following. Chromatin. — The fibres of the cell nucleus which are stained by various dyes, and which contain much nucleic acid, are composed of a substance called chromatin. See Physio- logy, The Cell {Nucleus). ChromatoiysiS.—Destruction of the chromatin material in cells so that their stain- ing power is lost {achromatosis) ■ this change occurs in a nerve cell after the division of its axon, and is usually temporary. See Phy^sio- logy, Nervous System {Sjnnal Cord); Insanity, Pathology {Cortical Nerve Cells). Chromatopsia. — That condition in which all objects seem to be of a certain colour {e.g. grey); partial colour - blindness. See Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Ocular Anaesthesia). Chromaturia.—The state of abnormal coloration of the urine. "Chrome Holes." —The cutaneous ulcers occurring in workers in the bichromate industry. See Trades, Dangerous (Workers in the Chemical Trades). ChromidroSiS.—The secretion of col- oured perspiration, especially on the face and eyelids. See Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Chromidrosis); Skin, Pig- mentary Affections of {Spurious Pigmenta- tions) ; also Eyelids, Affections of {Skin of Lids, Chromidrosis). Chrom ism.—Chronic chromium poison- ing occurring in workers in chemicals, and char- acterised by ulceration of the nasal septum and by " chrome holes " {q.v.) on the skin. See also Toxicology {Irritants, Chromium). Chromium.—There are two forms in which chromium occurs in the PharmacopcBia. Chrovuc acid, CrOg, readily soluble in water, having a powerfully caustic action, and being used as a disinfectant and deodorant. There is an official Liquor Acidi Chromici used some- times as a caustic; the lotion employed as a local application to ulcers, etc., has a strength of 1 in 40. The other official form of chromium is Potassium bichromate {Potassii Bichromas, K^CrO^,Cr03); it has an antiseptic and caustic action, and has been used in cases of gastric ulcer; it is best given (in doses of ith to yV^^ of a grain) in pill form compounded with kaolin, or in capsules, for it makes explosive compounds. See also Toxicology {Irritants, Chromium); Pharmacology ; Prescribing. Chromocytometer.—A colour test for estimating the amount of haemoglobin present in the blood (Bizzozero). See HiEMO- GLOBiNOMETER {Haldane's). ChromOg'ens. — Substances which do not colour the fluid {e.g. the urine) in which they are till it has stood some time, or till an oxidising agent is added. See Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Urobilin). Chromophanes. — The " colouring matters of the inner segments of the cones of the retina of animals where they are held in solution by a fat" {Syd. Soc. Lex.). See Pig- ments OF THE Body and Excreta {Lipochromes). Chromophile Substance. — A material, generally in the form of granules, staining markedly with aniline dyes, and exist- ing in nerve cells and their dendrites, but not in the axon ; Nissl's granules. Chromoproteid.—A simple proteid in combination with a pigment {e.g. htemoglobin, hajmocyanin, etc.). ChromopSia. See Chromatopsia; but the name has been specially given to cases in