CELIBACY 78 Celiba.cy.—The unmarried state ; suicide is more common among celibates than among the mari-ied. See Suicide. Cella.rs.—Cellars are prohibited as dwell- ings by the Public Health Act (England and Wales) of 1875, with certain exceptions care- fully specified in the Act. The Public Health (Scotland) Act of 1897 contains similar re- strictions. Ceilotropin.—One of Merck's prepara- tions, obtained by the action of benzoyl chloride upon ai'butin, of which it is the monoben- zoylester; it is used (in doses of 5 to 8 grains) to protect the system from infection (by the formation of alexines). Cells. See Physiology, The Cell; Phy- siology, The Tissues {Epithelium, Connective Tissue, Muscle, Nerve). Cellulitis.—Inflammation of the areolar tissue. See Aneurysm {Complications, Cellulitis and Suppuration); Axilla, Diseases {Acute Cellulitis); BuRS^, Injuries and Diseases (Bursitis, Acute); Chest-Wall, Affections (Acute Cellulitis and Abscess); Menstruation AND Disorders {Dysmenorrhoea from Pelvic Cellulitis); Mumps {Local Affections, Cellulitis ■of Floor of Mouth); Neck, Region of {Inflam- matory Affections); Orbit, Diseases op {Orbital Cellulitis 07- Phlegmon); Pelvis, Diseases of the Cellular Tissue {Pelvic Cellulitis) ; Pelvis, H/ematocele and HyJiMATOMA; Sterility (Causes); Teeth {Alveolar Abscess); Uterus, Displacements of; Uterus, Non-Malignant Tumours {Diagnosis). Celluloid.—An artificial substance con- sisting chiefly of the lower nitrates of cellulose in camphor, and used as a substitute for ivory, bone, etc.; its great inflammability and con- sequent danger have been diminished by the addition of sodium and ammonium phosphates, •etc.; xylonite. Cellulose.—The chief component of vegetable structures; a carbohydrate of un- ascertained constitution (C^HjqOj)"'; cotton-wool is almost entirely cellulose ; nitric and sulphuric acids act upon it to form gun-cotton and celluloid (q.v.). CelOSOinuS.—A teratological type in which there is eventration of both the abdominal and thoracic organs through an opening (lateral or median) affecting the walls of both cavities (thorax and abdomen); the sternum is defect- ive. It is derived from Ki]krj, a hernia, and CTM/JM, body. Cement. See Physiology, Tissues; Teeth (Anatomi/). Cementoma. — A fibrous odontome which has ossified into a hard, cement-like tissue. See Tumours {Odontomata, Cementoma). Cemeteries. See Burial - Places ; Cremation. CensestheSiS.—The vague conscious- ness of existence which exists apart from the special senses and is due to general impressions of bodily conditions ; the name is derived from Kotvos, common, and a.LcrOrjo-i'i, sensibility ; an- other spelling is Ccenmsthesis. Census.—The decennial enumeration of the population of Great Britain (last was in 1901), in order to obtain a basis of facts for the science of vital statistics and for other reasons. The mean population is that at the centre of the year, and since the census is taken at the end of the first quarter, it has to be corrected for the three months which follow, to give the true mean population of that year. The census paper has to be filled up by the householder giving name, age, sex, occupation, birthplace, relation- ship to head of the house, married or single state, infirmities, etc., of the various people who slept in the house on the census night. It would probably be well to have the census more frequently taken, in order that the birth-rate and the death-rate, etc., should be more accurate. Centimetre. See Metric System. Centipedes. See Nose, Foreign Bodies, ETC. {Parasites, Entomozoaria). Centres. See Brain, Physiology ; Phy- siology, The Senses ; Physiology, Nervous System ; Physiology, Circulation (Vasomotor Centres); Physiology, Respiration ; Physiology, Digestion ( Vomiting Centre); etc. Centrifug'e.—A rotatory apparatus by means of which centrifugal force is used to separate solids from a liquid, e.g. milk or urine. CentrOSOme.—A spherical body, some- times two, found in the protoplasm of many cells, from which rays diverge; they play a part in mitotic division of the cell. See Phy- siology, The Cell. Cepha.lcllg'ia.. — Headache; of various kinds, such as catarrhal, congestive, dyspeptic, epileptic, febrile, hysterical, menstrual, muscular, neuralgic, ocular, periodic, rheumatic, syphilitic, etc. See under the various diseases. Cephalhsematoma.—A blood effu- sion (usually in the new-born infant) between the pericranium and one (or two) of the under- lying cranial bones; to this form of tumour the term should be restricted, although it is often loosely applied to the caput succedaneum and to an effusion of blood inside the cranium (the so-called internal cephalhsematoma). See