BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHIECTASIS 28 but is frequent, though still accompanied by excessive and often offensive expectoration. In children the attack is often mistaken for vomit- ing. In reality a slight cough is followed by retching and the sudden expulsion, not of vomit, but of foetid mucus, sometimes exceeding half a pint in amount. Hcvmopti/sis is not at all im- common, but excejit in late stages of the disease is rarely excessive. The temperature of the patient is not raised unless the disease is asso- ciated with bronchitis or catarrh. A frequent though not invariable feature is the clubbing of the distal phalanges of fingers and toes. In rare cases other joints share in the enlargement (see " Osteo-Arthropathy, Pulmonary"). Nutrition is often well maintained, and the strength and appetite good. In later stages there may be wasting, excessive dyspnoea, an- orexia, or alimentary troubles. None of the above symptoms are constant. There may be little or no cough or expectoration. Foetor of ex- pectoration, cough, or breath may be present or absent. Clubbing cannot be regarded as patho- gnomonic of the affection, though it is commonly present. In the later stages of the disease grave symptoms are often associated, due to catarrh or broncho-pneumonia, or to vilceration of bronchial tubes. In the latter case acute septiCcBmia or one of the many manifestations of pytemia may ensue. Death may occur from— (1) Acute bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia. (2) Cardiac failure. (3) Exhaustion often induced by vomiting or other alimentary affections. (4) Amyloid disease and its accompaniments. (.5) Hsemorrhage from ulceration into or aneurysm of pulmonary vessels. (6) Acute or chronic pyjemia with inflanuna- tory or suppurative affections of serous mem- branes and metastatic abscesses, of which the most frequently recorded are abscesses of brain. Physical Signs.—There are no pathognomonic signs by which we can distinguish dilated bronchi. It will be remembered that in the acute cases in children and in some chronic cases of cylindrical bronchiectases, the signs are those of the associated bronchitis only. P^or the sake of simplicity the physical signs may be described under the following heads :— 1. Where the disease is masked by the deep position of the Dilated Bronchi or hy Emphysema, and unaccompanied by surrounding Pneumonia. —The chest may be resonant or hyper-resonant (in the case of emphysema). If the cavity approaches the pleural surface there is Skodaic resonance or absolute dulness, according as the bronchial dilatation is filled with fluid secretion or not. In the former case breath-sounds at the base or bases (which are usually affected) are absent or feeble, and the voice-resonance diminished. When the dilatation is empty, the respiratory murmur becomes broncho-cavernous. or cavernous with marked pectoriloquy. This variability in the physical signs is important and will be referred to later. In the cases of deeply seated dilatations it is not uncommon to find that resonance, vocal fremitus, voice sounds, and respiratory murmur do not depart from the normal, or perhaps the breath-sounds are somewhat harsher than usual. Adventitious sounds may or may not be present. When present they vary from the small bronchitic crepitation to the large bubbling rale. In this and the next group of cases, however, a marked feature may be the extraordinary variety of size and sound of rale. When a cavity is superficial, bubbles and rales of every size, squeaking and " croaking " sounds, or merely sibilant or sonorous dry sounds may be present. The term " croak " applied by Ewart well defines the characteristic quality of the sound. 2. Cases vihere the Dilatation of Bronchi is associated with a secomlary Consolidation of Lung.—Here the signs of consolidation, either patchy or confined to one or 1)oth bases, are superadded. Dulness to percussion, diminished or increased vocal vibration and resonance are present, varying with the condition of the pleura and with the depth of the dilated bronchus. When the case is well marked a feature is the variation in the degrees of increased voice- resonance as the stethoscope is passed from one spot to another at the base. In a tuberculous cavity near the surface there is frequently found a pectoriloquy of fairly uniform character and intensity over the whole surface of the cavity. It is not so where a series of bronchiectatic cavities occur at various distances from the pleural surface. Pectoriloquy of varying degree of pitch and loudness is heard at different spots on the chest-wall. Further, as in the first class of cases, the physical signs vary from time to time with the full or empty state of the bronchial cavity, provided it is near the surface. Again, rales may be absent or numerous, and those that are considered by some authorities to be peculiarly characteristic of the disease are sometimes present, especially the " croak" previously re- ferred to (described under difterent names by various authors), and a sound known as the "veiled puff" of Skoda, heard in rare cases at the end of inspiration. It cannot be positively affirmed that these two sounds are never heard in other pulmonary diseases, but it is certain that they are more often associated with bronchiectasis. 3. Cases in which the Consolidation or other Disease of Lung is primary, and the Dilatation of Bronchi a secondary result.—Space will not allow a detailed description, which would indeed be an account of the physical signs of condensa- tion or fibrosis of lung due to an old pleurisy or empyema, a chronic pneumonia, tuberculous fibrosis, or any indurative pulmonary disease;