KAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF 4G9 junction of the auricle and the mastoid, and the wound carefull\' sutured. When the meatus is rudimentary, terminating in a cul-de-sac, an ex- ploratory incision may be tried; but this is rarely attended by benefit, owing to the state of the deeper structures. For an esthetic elTect, if one auricle l>e rudimentary, an artificial auricle to match the normal one can be applied. This might, however, involve the operative removal of the rudimentary one. 3. Cutaneous Affections.—Eczema is the most common skin affection met with on the auricle. Certain apjjlications, such as iodoform or linseed poultices, may be exciting causes, and the irritat- ing effects of a discharge from the middle ear not infrequently account for the disease. In the acute state it may at first be mistaken for erysipelas. There are redness and swelling with heat and tension ; soon vesicles appear, followed b}- the exudation of a yellowish fluid. The epidermis exfoliates ; and, by the drying of the exudation, crusts form over the denuded cutis. In the chronic form, however, eczema of the auricle is much more commonly met with, and it is then, in many cases, associated with a similar condition of the face and scalp. It is frequently confined to a part of the auricle. For example, in the form of a red moistened surface or fissure, covered with scales or crusts, we often meet with it at the junction of the auricle and the head, especially at the upper part. The fossa of the helix is also a favourite spot; and also the outer surface of the lobule and neighbourhood of the meatus, from the irritation of discharge from the ear. Fissures are apt to exude fluid and to ])leed when touched. The skin of the auricle, in whole or in part, may ultimately become considerably infiltrated, and yellowish brown or reddish in colour, or it may be covered with inspissated secretion or epi- dermic scales. In certain neglected cases the auricle may ultimately become a thick brownish- red shapeless mass, fissured and covered with offensive crusts. The chief subjective feature, in the chronic stage, is itchiness, with a painful sense of heat and tension, when there is an acute exacerbation. There may be great in- duration and thickening of the skin at the outer part of the meatus, causing considerable loss of hearnig. Treatment of Eczema of the Auricle.-—In the acute stage soothing applications only should be employed, while the auricle is at the same time protected from pressure. The parts aftected should be gently but frequently sponged with a solution of subacctate of lead, in the proportion of one drachm to four oinices of water, while pieces of soft cloth dipped in the lotion should be kept constantly in contact with the morbid surface. In many cases dusting with a powder suits very well, such as—H Pulv. amyli Tjiij-, zinci oxidi 7)]., calaminfe ,"ss. M. Ointments, such as diachylon or benzoatcd oxide of zinc ointment, are sometimes very use- ful, although occasionally ointments seem to do harm. The ointment should be kept constantly applied on a piece of soft rag. Hairs must be carefully removed from the neighbourhood, and the adjoining parts of the head, if these are affected with eczema, should also be treated. It is desirable, in severe cases, to protect the auricle with a light and soft covering, so as to avoid pressure or the contact of impurities. In the more chronic forms astringent and stimulat- ing remedies are Tisually to be preferred. During an acute exacerbation, however, we must le careful to return to the soothing remedies. Mercurial and tany preparations are indicated when there is chronic infiltration or great scali- ness and dryness, with itchiness; but they should not be employed when there are moisture and heat. The following is a mercurial prepara- tion of a milder form :—R Hydrarg. oxid. rub., hydrarg. ammoniat. fia gr. vj., adipis benzoat. 3j., ol. olivas opt. 3ij. M. When a more stimulating remedy is demanded the following formula may be adopted :—li Liniment, calcis, ung. hydr. nitratis, aa 3jv lit]- carbonis detergent. Hl^xij., ung. zinci oxid. ad 5j- M. When crusts are difficult to remove, it may be necessary to saturate them with weak carbolic oil, or to apply a light warm poultice of bread crumbs and then use the milder stimulating preparations, such as any one of the following—• benzoated oxide of zinc ointment; subnitrate or oleate of bismuth with benzoated lard or vaseline; diachylon ointment; or boracic acid and vaseline. The ointment should lie smeared thickly on a narrow strip of soft linen which is laid into the various depressions of the aiu'icle; it should rather be wiped off than washed with water— the latter being done as seldom as possible. The application of a solution of nitrate of silver (40 grains to the ounce of water) to chronic fissures is sometimes very useful. Internal remedies are often of service. In the acute stage a saline aperient may be prescribed. In the chronic forms many cases are benefited by arsenic and iron. Delicate tubercidous children should have cod-liver oil and iron with nutritious food, while the fresh open air of the country is, of course, desirable. In gouty subjects the use of Carls- bad salts, or preferably a visit to a spa, such as Harrogate in this country, or Carlsbad abroad, might be suggested. Other affections of the skin are less frequently met with on the auricle, such as ke)-j^es, which here, as elsewhere, may be attended with severe neuralgic pains. Lupus occasionally affects the auricle both in the form of lujnis vulgaris and lupus erythematodes. Erythema, sehorrhoea, comedones, are more frequently met with, but as there is no essential difference between these diseases, when they