EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC NON SUPPURATIVE DISEASE 514 and removal of cicatricial tissue from over the roimd window. (a) The Removal of the Membrane, Malleus, and Incus.—This should be performed under a general antesthetic, the head being slightly raised on a pillow and turned three-quarters over to the opposite side. A good reflected light is necessary. An incision is made with a sharp-pointed knife, starting from immediately behind the short process of the malleus, sweep- ing round as close to the periphery as possible to a corresponding point on the anterior aspect of the short process. The handle is then freed from adhesions which may be present between the membrane or malleus and the promontory. The tensor tympani is then divided, either by Delstanche's extract or by a small curved knife. The malleus is then seized as high up as possible with a pair of strong curved forceps, being pulled first downwards to free it from the attic, and then outwards. The incus must then be turned out from the attic by means of an incus hook, which, being introduced into the anterior part of the cavity, is rotated downwards and backwards, pushing the ossicle into the lower middle ear, when it may be removed by forceps or by syringing. Numerous incus hooks are made, the most usefid being either Delstanche's, Lake's, or Ludewig's. The middle ear should then be gently mopped out, a gauze dressing should be lightly introduced into the meatus, and a general dressing and bandage applied. If anti- septic precautions have been efficient, dressing will not be required for a week or ten days. At the end of a fortnight or three weeks the hearing power should be tested again, and the amount of tinnitus noticed. The dressing should not be left out until healing is complete, when an artificial membrane maybe tried if no im- provement results. Sometimes an adventitious membrane forms across, annulling any good eifect, and may require removal more than once. {b) Mobilisation and the Removal of the Stapes and the Removal of Cicatricial Tissue from over the round Window.—Before these operations are performed the ear should be allowed to heal soundly, allowing the condition of the inner middle wall to be plainly seen. Adhesions binding down the head and crura of the stapes should be divided with a fine sharp, shouldered knife, such as Politzer's, as close to the ossicle as possible, under eucaine or cocaine, the stapedius muscle being also divided, and the stapes mobilised by means of a suitable probe. If improvement occurs, nothing more should be done ; if it does not, we may again try an arti- ficial membrane; if this is ineffective we should remove adhesions obscuring the round window as far as possible, a rather difficult procedure on account of the anatomy of the part. If this is insufficient we must infer fixation of the base of the stapes. With regard to removal of the stapes more experience and investigation is necessary. If mobilisation has not been possible, at- tempted removal will, in all probability, result in fracture of the crura, leaving the foot-plate still in position. The attempted removal should be made by means of a fine hook introduced between the crura from above, and with a gentle side to side movement. It may be that, in the future, operations on the inner middle ear wall may be of benefit. A more radical method has been proposed and carried out by Malherbe, who opens the antrum from behind, divides adhesions in the middle ear, and introduces a celluloid tube through the meatus into the antrum {Proceedings of the Sixth International Congress of Otology, 1899); the resiilts have not been brilliant, and until further experience has been obtained it may be fairly stated that operations through the meatus, as described, are equally efficient. £. Atrophic Catarrh.—Fixation of Stapes. —The chief chai'acteristics of this form are the very gradual and insidious onset of deafness, with little or no change in the membrane and no obvious cause in the nose or naso-pharynx; the majority of cases occurring in women between the ages of twenty and iortj. Causation.—The causes are obscure in the highest degree. Heredity is certainly an im- portant factor. Occasionally a vague history of a bad cold or series of colds is obtained as a starting-point. Some severe illness, such as rheumatic fever, is thought sometimes by the patient to be the origin, and occasionally chronic rheumatic affections are coexistent. Anaemia is often present. Parturition is intimately con- nected with this class; the deafness either apparently commencing after labour, or being made considerably and permanently worse thereby. Pathology/.—^This appears to be an atrophy of the lining membrane with a marked tendency to the fixation of the base of the stapes in the oval window, and sometimes implication of the internal ear in the later stages. The onset is so gradual that pathological investigation in the early stages is well-nigh an impossibility; we are only familiar with the ultimate results I^roduced. On removing the roof of the middle ear affected with the disease, the first thing that strikes one is the wideness, whiteness, and dryness of the whole cavity, the contained structures being clearly defined. Fine mem- branous septa in various pai-ts can be seen, and are apparently the atrophied remains of the folds of the lining membrane. A well-marked membrane is sometimes seen running up from the tendon of the tensor tymjjani to the roof. On microscopical examination the layers are atrophied, and the distinctive characteristics cannot be made out. The base of the stapes is fixed to the oval window either by calcification