51 CANTHARIDES one volatile, giving the smell, and the other green, yielding the colour. Preparations —\. Tinctura Cantliaridis. Dose —5-15 m.; if frequently repeated, 2-5 m. 2. Acetuni Cantharidis. Strength — 1 in 10. 3. Unguentum Cantharidis. Strength—1 in 10. 4. Emplastrum Cantharidis. Strength—1 in 3. 5. Emplastrum Calefaciens. Strength—1 in 25. 6. Liquor Epispastieus. Strength—1 in 2. 7. Col- lodium Vesicans. Strength—1 in 2. Cantharides is chiefly employed externally as a counter-irritant. It is very reliable, although somewhat slow in action. It is applied over all sorts of inflammatory and painful conditions. It should never be used in patients suftering from kidney disease, in debilitated persons, or children, as it may be absorbed by the skin and cause internal irritation, particularly of the kidneys. It should be applied over a small area at a time. When the plaster is used it should be removed as soon as the blister has risen, because of the risk of absorption. Cantharides is contained in many mixtures the object of which is to stimulate the growth of the hair. It is hardly ever given internally, but small doses of the tincture have proved beneficial in chronic gleet. It has a wide reputation among tlie laity as an apln-odisiac ; but this action, being due solely to direct irritation of the genital organs, can only be accomplished by the admin- istration of toxic doses. Ca.nthopla.Sty.—The reconstruction of the canthus of the eye or any plastic operation in its neighbourhood. See Eyeltds, Affections OF {Spasm of the Orhicularis Afuscle). Canthor- raphi/ is the operation of suturing the canthus, while canthotomy is simple division of it. (The canthus is the angle, outer or inner, where the upper and lower eyelids meet). Caoutchouc.—Indiarubber, or rubber ; obtained liy drying the milky juice of IJevea brasiliensis and other tropical plants. The official preparation is Liquor Caoutchouc (made by dissolving 1 oz. of indiarubber in shreds in 10 fl. oz. of benzol and 10 fl. oz. of carbon bisulphide), used in the preparation of Charta Sinapis. Vulcanised indiarubber is a combina- tion of sulphur with caoutchouc. Capacity.—Testamentary capacity is the state of mental health necessary for making a will which shall be valid. See Civil Incapacity. Cape Town. 5ee Therapeutics, Health Resorts {South Africa). Capillaries, Diseases of. •Congenital Angioma— Histology . . . . .51 Clinical. History .... 52 Diagnosis ..... 52 Treatment ..... 52 Non-Congenital Capillary Angioma . 53 The most common and important affection in- volving capillaries is angioma. This may occur in any part of the body, but is most frequent in the skin and subcutaneous texture, so that we may confine our description to that region. Prol)al)ly the most elastic and comprehensive classification of the angiomata is the anatomical. {Capillary = Telangiectasis; Erectile tumour ; Cavernous tumour. Venous = Phlebectasis. Arterial = Cirsoid aneurysm. Lymphatic = Lymphangioma. Capillary angioma is best considered under two heads : the congenital and the non-congenital. I. Congenital Angioma. N/Evus—may be subdivided pathologically or clinically. In the one view we have the simple, venous, and arterial; in the other the cutaneous, subcuta- neous, and mixed. We shall presently see the value of these distinctions. Histology. — On section the simj^le njevus presents the appearance of a finely reticulated sponge with imperfectly marked lobulation. The laminaj are tliin and fibrous, and lined by epithelium continuous with that of the blood- vessels. It may or may not be surrounded by a capsule. A ntevus grows in two ways—in- trinsic or extrinsic. If its growth is intrinsic, and especially if it be slow, it pushes parts aside and forms a capsule. But a nsevus often in- vades its surroundings like an inflammation or a malignant tumour. What is the influence which metamorphosed capillaries can thus exer- cise on their neighbours it is difficult to con- ceive. But I have seen one grow by invasion in a week or two from the size of a shilling till it occupied half a baby's face and head, occluded its eye, and deformed its ear. In such cases, and in so far as a ntevus may occupy the skin, there is no capsule, a point of importance in connection with treatment. In the vascular arrangements there are many modifications. Thus it is not unusual for a ntevus to pulsate from the beginning, when tortuous and dilated arterioles may be dissected out, although there is certainly no form which in the least resembles histologically the cirsoid aneurysm, or even perhaps the aneurysm by anastomosis of the adult. Similarly enlarge- ment of venous radicles may enter largely into the composition of a na;vus—so largely, indeed, as greatly to mask its original capillary character. If you on the stretch skin which is occupied by a small and recent naivus, you will display a most beautiful network of visible capillaries often in parallel rows, with perhaps a winding arteriole or dilated vein. From this simple dilatation, and it may be multiplication of capillaries, presumably arise by pressure on the intervascular structures and formation of fresh intercommunications the appearances already described.