25 BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS although there is seldom any expectoration to be seen, inasmuch as young children almost always swallow what they cough up. There may be considerable laryngitis and glottic as well as bronchial spasm, sometimes causing confusion with spasmodic croup, but in bronchitis the spasm is not so marked, and the cough is less bi'assy and ringing in character. Laryngismus stridulus is a ner\'ous aftection, which, like bronchitis, is especially prone to occur in the subjects of rickets; but it is accompanied 1)}' other characteristic signs, and is, moreover, un- attended with pyrexia, which is never absent in acute bronchitis in children. Simple bronchitis in children, as in adults, may also be simulated by the invasion of measles, whooping-cough, typhoid fever, general- ised tuberculosis of the lung, and more rarely by scarlatina and srnall-pox. The chief points of distinction have already been mentioned in the section on acute bronchitis in adults, but it is especially in children that dirticulty in the earlier recognition of measles and whooping-cough is likely to arise. Prognosis.—Acute bronchitis is especially fatal during the first two years of life, and, speaking generally, the younger the patient the moi'e likely is a fatal termination, particularly in rickety children. The chief source of danger is the liability to involvement of the finer bronchial tubes, with asphyxia from extensive pulmonaiy collapse and broncho-pneumonia. Yet children will sometimes recover from a condition that is apparently hopeless. Hilton Fagge states tiiat we mast be cautious in giving an unfavourable prognosis in children ; it is surprising how rapid may be both the pulse and the breathing, for two or three days together, in those wlio ulti- mately I'eeover completely. Chronic bronchitis in childi'en is comparatively rare, since the processes of repair are more active in them than in advdt life, while the very acute and severe attacks of acute bronchitis, from which oidy incomplete recovery is generally pos- sible, frecpiently end fatally before the chronic stage is reached. Nevertheless, susceptible and delicate children are vei-y prone to suffer from frequently recurring attacks of acute or sub- acute bronchitis, which idtimately pass into a more or less persistent chronic affection. In the milder cases they often lose their tendency to bronchitic affection about the age of puberty, and ultimately become strong and robust. When children are the subject of persistent chronic bronchitis, it is almost invariably accom- panied by emphysema and bronchiectasis. The chest becomes barrel - shaped, the shoulders rounded and high, the face pinched, and the body thin. The heart is dilated, the jugular veins large and prominent, and more or less cyanosis is usually observed. They are very liable to be carried off by an intercurrent acute attack, and are apt to become tuberculous. TjtKATMicNT.—The treatment of bronchitis in children is the same in principle as in the case of adults. The temperature of the apartment to which they are confined should range from 64° F. to 66° F., and in all but the milder cases the air should be kept moist by means of a steam-kettle. A linseed and mustard poultice, or hot fomentations, should be applied at the outset. It is necessary to be careful not to apply poultices or fomentations too hot for the tender skin of children, or to use much mustard in the poultice ; and in infants and young chil- dren it is well to confine poulticing to the back if there is great difficulty in breathing, as the weight of a poultice may add a fresh danger instead of producing the relief desired. The drugs most relied on are ipecacuanha in the form of the powder or wine, syruj) of squills, apomorphia, and antimony. Small frequently repeated doses of the tartrate of antimony or of apomorphia will generally relieve congestion and aid secretion in the earlier stages. It is undesirable to push these or any drugs to the point of vomiting or even nausea in the early stages. Small doses of aconite or belladonna, a minim or half-minim every two hours, are also of great service at this early period. Bella- donna, recommended by Ringer and Murrell, has the effect of diminishing the secretion in the bronchial tubes, and on this account is often of much value in the bronchitis of children, when from the free secretion both into the bronchi and the pulmonary tissues there is a risk of broncho-pneumonia. It is much praised on this account by Coutts in the treatment of bronciio-pneumonia, and I am able to confirm his good opinion of it from my own experience. The drug should be given with no timid hand, the extract in doses of gr. ^ to h being prefer- able to the tinctiu'e, but its effect must be watched, as it sometimes fails to relieve the respiratory embarrassment. If cough is exces- sive, small doses of bromide of potassivmi may be given. If opium or any of its preparations are considered necessary, they must be used with great caution. Non-depressing emetics such as ipecacuanha or sulphate of zinc are sometimes called for in the initial stages before the secretion has occurred, when the breathing- is much impeded from the swelling and engorge- ment of the mucosa; they then may relieve the condition by aiding free secretion and by empty- ing an overloaded and distended stomach. Again, in later stages, when the tubes are be- coming choked by excessive secretion which the little patient, either from weakness or from the tenacious character of the nuico-pus, is unable to cough up, emetics ai-e of signal service. The diet should be light and nourishing, such as beef-tea, milk and milk-puddings, Benger's food, and barley-water, and in all cases the con- dition of the stomach and bowels should receive attention.