•2G9 CYTODIAGNOSIS It will be noticed that the formula given above deals only with qualitative results of cell counts. Some important indications follow the quantitative examination of certain fluids with regard to their cell content, and this is particulai'ly so with the cerebro-spinal fluid. Normal cerebro-spinal fluid is free from cells, or contains an occasional lymphocyte only. A condition of lymphocytosis exists in certain diseases of the central nervous system, and appears to be proportional to the degree of meningeal involvement present. Thus, a slight Ij^mphocytosis is found to occur in tabes dorsalis and in insular sclerosis ; a somewhat higher cell count is present in general paralysis of the insane, in cerebral syphilis, and in the case of cerebi'al tumours involving the meninges. It may readily be seen that these facts—always to be taken in connection with the more immedi- ately clinical aspects of the case—provide con- siderable assistance in differential diagnosis of nervous diseases, and form an additional reason, if this were necessary, for the more extended use of lumbar puncture as a means of clinical examination in obscure diseases of the nervous system. It need scarcely be pointed out that the cytodiagnostic method may yield valuable information in deciding between organic and functional nervous diseases. CytolysinS.—Bodies causing dissolution of cells. Cytoryctes Variolaa. — Protozoon like bodies found by Cuaruieri in the skin lesions of smallpox; they may be the cause of the dis- ease ; they arc found also in vaccinia {Cytoryctes Vaccinia:'). CytotOXineS. — Poisons produced by cells and capable of destroying cells. CytOZOci.—Cell-parasites, sporozoa, such as the Coccidiiini oviforme found inside the epithelial cells which line the bile ducts of the rabbit's liver. See Psorosi'KRMIasis. Da.boia,.—A poisonous snake, one of the Viperidie (or true vipers): " Kussel's viper" of India and Ceylon. See Snake - Bites anu Poisoxous Fishes. DcLCry-. —- In compound words dacry- (from Gr. SuKpvor, a tear) generally means relating to the lacrymal gland or duct or (rarely) to the phenomenon of weeping; thus dacryadenitis is inflammation of the lacrymal gland, dacryadenalf/ia is pain in the lacrymal gland, and dacrygelosis (Gr. SaKpvov, a tear, and ycAaw, I laugh) is a form of insanity char- acterised by alternate fits of excessive weeping and laughing. Vide infra. DacryoadenitiS.—fnllamniationof the lacrymal gland ; also sjjclled dacryadoiitix. Dacryoblenorrhoea. — Discharge (mucous) taking jilace from the lacrymal sac and ducts. Dacryocystitis.—Inflammation of the lacrymal sac or gland, catarrhal or suppurative. See Lacrymai. Apraratlts, Diseases of {Gland, Inflammation). The occurrence of a mucous discharge from the sac is termed dacryocysto- blenorrlujea, prolapse of the sac is dacryocysto- 2:itosis, while a hernia of it is dacryorystocele. Dacryolith.—A calculus or chalky con- cretion lilockiiig a. duct of the lacrymal gland, or a canaliculus, or the sac. See Lacrymal Apparatus, Diseases of {Diseases of Gland). Dacryoma.—Obstruction of one or both of the puncta lachryinalia, preventing the passage of tears into the lacrymal sac. Dacryon.—The point at the side of the root of the nose where the frontal, the lacrymal bone, and the ascending process of the superior maxilla meet; used as a landmark in cranio- metry. Dacryops.—A cyst-like distension of a duct of the lacrymal gland; also a " watery eye." See Lacrymal Apparatus, Dlseases of {Gland, Diseases : Cystic Growth). DacryOSOlenitiS.—Inflammation of the lacrymal duct (from Gr. oaKpiw, a tear, and crajAv/i', a channel). DacryOSyrinX.—A fistula lachrymalis (Gr. trr/jiy^", a pipe). Dactylitis.—Inflammation of the fingers or toes (Gr. (SuKTcAog, a finger or toe), especially that form in which there is marked enlargement of the digits of a syphilitic (gunnnatous) nature {dactylitis syphilitica). See Bone, Diseases of { Tubercidous Disease in the Interior of Bones, Tuberculous Dactylitis) ; Bone, Diseases of {Syphilitic Dactylitis); Fingers {Diseases of Hones and Joints, Dactylitis); Hand {Bones, Dactylitis); Syphilis {Tertiary, Bones and Joints). Dactylolysis.—Spontaneous amputation of the fingers or toes met with at birth, and ascribed by some to the pressure of the umbili- cal cord or of bands of amnion or of l^'mph, and by others to a cutaneous lesion (viz. proliferation and downgrowth of the surface epithelium); it is in connection with the last-named theory that the term epithelial dactylolysis has been given (Menzel); perhaps this congenital state is allied to the disease called ainhum {ipv. vol. i. p. 76). Dactylotheca.—A finger-cot ; a pro- tective covering used in certain examinations and manipulations.