DIABETES MELLITUS 325 and degeneration, calculi, cancer, cysts, and marked atropliy. Often the pancreatic tissue has been ahaost absent owing to the changes mentioned. It is very improba))le that all these varied pancreatic ciianges sliould be the result of diabetes; and when we consider the remarkable results of experimental removal of the pancreas, it apjiears very pi'obable that, in certain cases, diabetes is directly due to pancreatic disease. There are two objections to the pancreatic theory of diabetes in man. The first is that glycosuria is absent in many cases of diseases of the pancreas. But it is important to remember that in extirpation of the pancreas in animals, if a small portion of the gland shoidd be left behind, no diabetes follows. And in man, in disease of tlie pancreas, often only a portion of the gland is affected. The second great objection to the pancreatic origin of dialjetcs is the fact that the 2Mncreas is not affected in all cases of diabetes. In one- third of the cases the pancreas is normal macro- scopically and microscopically. Hence in these cases either the lesion causing the diabetes is not in the pancreas, or the pancreatic aftection is a functional one. It is conceivaVjle that artorio-sclerosis may cause diabetes by producing changes in the pancreas or in the nervous system ; and several instructive cases of diabetes are on record in which marked pancreatic changes were found post-mortem that were appai'ently the result of arterio-sclerosis. [The conflicting statements which have been made concerning the relation of panci'eatic disease to diabetes have now been to a large extent recorrected by the work of Opie and others. There is good reason to believe that one pancreatic lesion, and one only, has the power of so influencing the action of tlie internal secretion of the organ on carbohydrate metabolism that glycosm-ia results, and that is disease of the ductless islands of Langerhans. These bodies are involved in interacinar pancreatitis, not in the interlobular form, and onlj^ when their cells are invaded, whether by this process, be it jirimary or secondary to arterio-sclerosis, licpatic cirrhosis, or cancer, or bj' some lesion involving the whole pancreas, does diabetes result.] Diabetes of Endogenous Origin.—In manj' cases of diabetes the most careful inquiry fails to reveal any exciting cause, and often the most careful examination of the brain, pancreas, liver, and other organs fails to reveal an}' changes except what ai-e secondary or accidental. It is quite possible (as suggested by Striimpell) that some cases are entirely or almost entirely endogenous in origin, i.e. they are due to some developmental abnormality. SYJirXOMATOLOGY In tlie severe forms of diabetes the face is often wasted in appearance, the wrinkles and naso-labial folds are well marked, and the ex- pression is often anxious or sad. But the face and lips are not auEemic, or not markedly anseniic, unless some complication should 1)0 present. In the mild forms of the disease, how- ever, the facial expression is not characteristic. In severe forms of dial>etes ivnsting is a prominent symptom, especially in young persons, whilst in elderly patients mild diabetes is often associated with obesity. Onset.—In many cases tJdrst and diuresis are the first symptoms noticed; sometimes the earliest sign is troublesome cramps in the calf muscles at night. In other cases the jjatient first seeks medical advice on account of ivasting and increasinfi weakness, or on account of one of the complications (gangrene, carbuncle, cataract, eczema of the genital organs, etc.). Occasionally the patient states very definitely that the thirst commenced suddenly on a certain day, and at a certain hour. Sometimes a very slight glyco- suria, unaccompanied by thirst, diuresis, or other symptoms, has preceded the true diabetes for months or years; but certainly this is not always the case. The Urine.—The (piantity of urine is in- creased (often 150 to 300 ounces in the 2-1 hours); imt in many of the milder cases the increase may only be sliglit (GO-100 ounces daily). The amount of urine is about equal to the fluid taken. It is reduced by a nitrogenous diet and by intercurrent disease, and often diminishes before a fatal termination. The colour of the urine is vei-y pale, generally light yellow or sti'aw-coloured ; often, but not always, it has a greenish-yeWow tint. But Avhcn the amount of urine is not increased, in the mild forms, the colour may be normal. A mucous cloud, when present in diabetic urine, is often seen, not at the bottom, but at the upper part of the urine glass. Diabetic urine is usuallj^ bright and clear, but sometimes in female patients it is tin-bid from the presence of pus and epithelial cells. The smell is often sweet or aromatic ; and in severe cases, especially just before the onset of coma, the urine has a peculiar " chloroform " smell, usually attributeil to the presence of acetone. The taste of diabetic urine is sweet. The reaction is nearly always acid, and often markedly acid. The sj^ecifc gravity is increased (up to 1030, 1045, or higher). A small quantity of sugar may be found, how- ever, in urine of a normal or low sp. gr. The presence of sugar is of course the most important change in the m-ine in diabetes. Sometimes before the patient has been aware of the nature of the disease he has been struck by the fact that flies have been attracted to his urine; also, if a drop of it has fallen on to his boot, or any adjacent object, and has been allowed to dry, lie has observed that a salt-like