CHLORINE 109 Chlorinated lime is largely employed as a disinfectant for drains, etc., and chlorine gas was at one time a popular disinfecting agent for rooms after infectious disease. Weak chlorine- containing solutions are sometimes used as mouth washes and gargles in septic conditions of the mouth and throat. It has also been strongly recommended as an internal antiseptic in typhoid fever. Chlorinism. tSee Toxicology {Non- Metallic ElemenU, Chlorine). Chlorobrom. See Ciiloralamide. Chlorodyne. See Morphinomania {Chloro(li/)ie llahit) ; Toxicology (Alkaloids).— A proprietary preparation, used as a hypnotic and anodyne ; it is believed that the official Tinctura Chloroformi et Morphinfc Composita has a some- wluit similar composition ; the latter contains morphine hydrochloride dissolved in a mixture of chloroform, tincture of capsicum, tincture of cannabis indica, oil of peppermint, glycerine, and alcohol, with some dilute hydrocyanic acid added to it after the morphine has been dissolved in it. Chloroform. .bVe An.ksthesia, General PHYsiOLO(iY; An/esthesia, Chloroform. See also Abdomen, Clinical Examination; Asphyxia (Causes); Analgesics and Anodynes ; Anti- spasmodics ; Children, Clinical Examination OF (Abdomen); Convulsions, Infantile (Treat- ment) ; Eclampsia (Treatment, Arrest of Fits); Labour, Management of (Anaesthetics); Mor- phinomania AND ALLIED Drug Habits (Chloro- form, self-administration); Oxygen ; Pharjia- cology ; Prescribing ; Toxicology (Organic Poisons, Chloroform). — Chloroform, as an ana)sthetic, is dealt with fully elsewhere; but it is necessary here to add a few par- ticulars regarding its pharmaceutical characters. Chemically, it is trichloromethaiie (CHCI3), and is a clear, colourless liquid, with a pleasant smell and taste. There are four official preparations of it : Aqna Chloroformi (dose, i to 2 fl. 07..); Linimentum Chloroformi; Spiritus Chloi-qformi or Chloric Ether (q.v.); and Tinctura Chloroformi et Morphince Com- posita (dose, 5 to 15 m.). Chloroformum itself may be given internally in doses of 1 to 5 m. Chioroma,.—A rare disease, in which there is a widespread development of soft green- coloured tumours of a lymphosarcomatous nature, and associated with blood changes closely resembling those of lymphatic leukicmia. It occurs most frequently, but not exclusively, in children under fifteen years of age, and is more common in males than in females. The early symptoms are progressive wasting, weakness, and loss of appetite, with extreme facial pallor, which later gives place to a waxy-yellow com- plexion. There is also a htemoiThagic tendency as shown by the formation of numerous petechia? and ecchymoses, and suppuration occurs readily. Exophthalmos, an important diagnostic sign, is almost invariable, and becomes more marked as the disease progresses. Pain in the eyes and temporal regions is usual in the later stages. There may be some enlargement of lymphatic glands. Examination of the blood reveals a progressive auccmia, which may reach an ex- treme degree; and a marked leucocytosis, due to an enormous increase of lymphocytes. A few myelocytes and nucleated red corpuscles are also usually present. The diagnosis depends on the leukajmic condition of the blood, the ex- ophthalmos, and the evidences of tumour forma- tion especially affecting the bones of the skulk The disease is always rapidly fatal. Authorities are at variance as to the exact nature of chioroma, but it is now recognised that the tumours belong to the class of lymphosarcomata, with a tendency to rapid and extensive meta- static formation, and that they originate chiefly in connection with the periosteum of the bones of the skull and face. In spite of the similarity of the blood picture to that of lymphatic leuk- ccmia and other points of resemblance between the two diseases, it is probable that the condi- tions are essentially different. The distribution of the tumour masses is very wide, and they may be found in almost every organ of the body;, but the brain, spinal cord, and nerves escape. The green colouration rapidly fades when the tmnours are exposed post mortem. The nature of the colouring matter has not yet been deter- mined. Some regard it as being due to small clusters of fatty material scattered about the substance of the tumours, others to a chemical product allied to lipochrome, which is oxidised on exposure to light. Chlorosis. Causation AND Pathology . . .110 Symptoms . . . . . .111 Course and Prognosis . . . .112 Diagnosis . . . . . .112 Treatment . . . . . .113 *SVf; also An/Emia ; Anaemia, Pernicious ; Brain, Affection of Blood-Vessels (Throm- bosis) ; Leucocytosis (Leucopenia); Menstrua- tion and its Disorders (Ainenorrhoea) ; Skin, Pigmentary Affections (Chlorosis). Introductory. — Chlorosis or green-sickness is a disease of the female sex, occurring usually for the first time between the ages of fourteen and twenty years, and having anasmia as its cardinal symptom. The ana;mia is due to defective blood formation; it occurs spontaneously, or at least without any cause which is universally admitted to be sufficient, develops rapidly as a rule, and gives rise secondarily to a number of other symptoms. If the disease is not treated it does not tend to recover, but to become more