275 DEAFMUTISM Brou^lit forward 1 on Brought forw'aj'd 99 P» Purseniiikers •> Tiiisniitlis . 0 Riveter 1 Umbrella JIakers 5 filorlrnoT- oaQaier 1 L Upholsterers 'J o Sculptor 1 Washerwomen . o Ship Joiuers 5 Weavers 5 Shoemakers 6 Wood Carvers . 4 Silver Engraver. 1 Wood Engraver . 1 Tailors 16 Wood Turner 1 Ticket Writers . 2 Total 253 Carry forward 225 Dumbness from Ihiocy.—Dumbness is a necessary result of great deafness happening early in life, and of congenital deafness, but dumbness is no necessary concomitant or result of idiocy. Most imbecile children can be taught to speak. Dr. Ireland says : " The lower classes of idiots never learn to speak at all. Out of 103 cases of which I have notes 36 were found mute on entry, and 67 could speak more or less. The average time at which they began to speak was 4 years and 3 months. Only four were noted as having spoken at one year." Children of this class, when they are dumb, are so because they have no ideas to express, and speech develops as education proceeds. At Larbert, Stirlingshire, Mr. Skene, the superintendent of the institution thei'e, showed the writer a cretinous idiot who had not only improved in growth and in general condition very remarkably, but whose speech showed an eipially satisfactory development under the use of thyroid gland and extract, and this ti'eatment promises no less brilliant results when applied to cretinous children than it has given in myxccdema. Two classes of idiotic ■children remain to be mentioned—the deaf-mute idiot and the aphasic idiot. Both of these should be educated as idiots, and not in schools for the deaf and dumb. The aphasic idiot or the idiotic aphasic hears perfectly, but is not intelligent, and does not do well in the schools for the deaf and dumb. The deaf-mute idiot is hardly cap- able of education in the ordinary sense at all. Most idiotic children have good musical ears, and perform and sing in action songs very well. Dea.fneSS. tSce Alcoholism {iMoxica- tion, Duiness of Hear in y); Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Physiology, Test, Nerve Deafness, etc.); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Hearing); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Tumour, Auditory Nerves) ; Climacteric In- sanity {Clinical Forms, Deafness) ; Cretinism {Causation) ; Ear, Examination of {Sitnulafed Deafness); Heredity {Initeritance of Disease, Deafness); Hypnotism {Experimental Phenomena, Deafness); Hypnotisai {Therapeutic Uses, Deaf- ness) ; Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic {Prognosis) ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cere- bro-Spinal {Sympjtoms, Ear) ; Nose, Post-Nasal Adenoid Growths {Symptoms) ; Physiology, The Senses {Hearing); Rheumatism, Chronic {Clinical Features); Spine, Surgical Affec- tions {Caisson Disease); Syphilis {Children, Ear); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxedema, Special Senses) ; Tonsils, Diseases of {Enlarged Tonsils, Sympitoms). Dea.th. See Abdo.men, Injuries op {Causes of Death); Adolescent Insanity {Nerve Breakdown and Mortality Statistics) ; Anaes- thesia {Deaths under Ether, under Chloroform) ; An.esthesia, Combined Anaesthetics {A.C.E. Mixture, Deaths umler) ; Asphyxia {Causes); Brain, Tumours of {Prognosis) ; Breath {Determination of Death) ; Climate {Deatli-Rate in Cold Climates) ; Death, Signs of ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease, Sudden Death) ; Medicine, Forensic {Certificate of Death); Medicine, FORENSic {Signs of Death) ; Medicine, Forensic {Death from Lightning, Electric Currents, Star- vation, Cold, Asphyxia); Post-Morte.m Methods ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Death of F<Hus) ; Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases {Death of Fcjetvs); Pregnancy, Affections and Complica- tions {Death); Puerperium, Pathology {Sudden Death, Causes); Temperature {Pre - Agonic ; After Death); Toxicology {Post-Mortem Appear- n.nces of Poisons); Typhus Fever {Death in); Vital Statistics {Deaths); etc., etc. Death-Ra.te.—The ratio between deaths and population, stated (commonly) as so many deaths {e.g. 14) per annum per 1000 of the population. See Vital Statistics {Deaths). Death - Rattle.— The rattling sound caused by the breath passing through mucus in the throat of the dying; is not an invariably certain sign of impending dcatii. Death, Sig:nS of. — The distinction between the (|uick and the dead is not always so absolute as might at first appear. Long after what is called the moment of death vital phe- nomena continue in some of the tissues of the body, and even if we set aside all cases of Indian fakirs and Colonel Townsends, there remains a sufficient residuum of cases of persons liresumably dead afterwards returning to life to raise in the minds of some a morbid fear of being buried alive. The conditions which may thus most nearly resemble death are syncope, asphyxia, and trance. The principal signs relied on as proving that death is real and not apparent are :— 1. Entire Cessation of Circulation and Re- spiration.—The entire cessation of all respiratory movement for a period of five minutes is itself suHicient proof that death is; real and not ap- parent, but the test of auscultation should be applied for a sufficient period to make sure that the action of the heart {primum vivens et ultimum moriens) has really finally ceased. The popular method of testing for the continuance of respira- tory movements consists in holding a cold mirror or a fluff of cotton before the nose and mouth.