116 CHOLEEA, EPIDEMIC ing the pathogenic character of the vibrio, that it is vinnecessary to recount the accidents and experiments which estabUsh beyond doubt that all the symptoms and lesions of cholera can be caused by it in man, or to discuss the value of the evidence afforded by experiments on the lower animals. The vibrio is found in the stools of cholera patients, and after death in the contents and tissues of the intestinal canal. It has occasion- ally been detected in the vomited matters, but only in small numbers, and its presence in the vomit is doubtless to be accounted for by the contents of the intestine finding their way into the stomach. It has also been met with in a few instances in the bile ducts and gall-bladder. It is never present in the blood, liver, spleen, kidneys, or mesenteric glands. The real seat of the microbe is the lower part of the small intestine. Abel and Claussen made the im- portant observation that vibrios are often present in the stools of healthy persons who are in daily intercourse with cholera patients. They have also been found in the stools of convalescents up to fifty days after recovery. When one of the small mucous flakes from a cholera stool is spread out on a cover-glass, dried, heated, and stained, the bacillus is readily to be seen if the specimen happens to be a pretty pure cultivation, otherwise the presence of other organisms makes its detection difficult. In many cases its presence or absence can only be certainly determined by placing a mucous flake in peptone broth, and incubating for twenty-four hours ; the vibrios in sufficiently pure culture for microscopic examination are then to be found on the surface of the fluid. The various media and processes of cultivation, and the distinctive characters of cholera colonies, will be found described in any text-book on bacteriology. The cholera bacilli are actively motile, flagel- lated, curved rods, about half the size of the tubercle bacillus. Their average- length is about 1 '5 fi] their thickness from one-sixth to one-third their length. The young forms show only a slight curve, the older ones a more decided bend, while some present the form of a half-circle. They occur isolated or attached to one another in the form of the letter S, or in longer screw-like forms. They are stained with warm solutions of methylene blue, or with methyl-violet, or fuchsine. They do not thrive in acid media. They are aerobic, but are nevertheless capable of growing to some extent when oxygen is altogether ex- cluded. The cultivations made with a deficient supply of oxygen are more virulent, but less resistant to the action of the gastric juice and external influences than those grown with a more abundant supply of oxygen. It is the circumstance that they are capable of growing when only a slight amount of oxygen is present that explains their rapid multiplication in the intestinal canal. This may also explain their exalted toxic power as parasites, a toxicity which they lose when grown for a time as saprophytes with a free supply of oxygen. The cholera bacillus does not grow below 16°; it thi-ives between 22° and 25°; its opti- mum lies between 30° and 40° C. It is killed by exposure for half an hour to a temperature of 60°. Although the bacillus does not grow below 16°, Koch found that it is not killed by being subjected for an hour to a temperature of -10° C. It is very susceptible to drying. Koch says that when spread out on a cover- glass and exposed to the air, the bacillus is killed after two or three hours ; but according to Kanthack the vibrios have been found to retain their vitality for 120 days when dried on glass. When exposed to sun and air they do not live long on a cover-glass, but if the air is humid, and the preparation is not exposed to sunlight, they are not so easily destroyed. Commas are easily destroyed by the growth of saprophytes, but experiments bearing on this point give widely different results. The nature of the medium, its reaction, and the class of organisms it contains all no doubt count for much. Koch found that when added to sewage the vibrios could not be demonstrated after twenty-four hours; on the other hand, they have been observed to retain their vitality for months in sewage-polluted water. Koch did not find them to survive longer than six or seven days in the water of the Berlin Canal. Orgel found that they could live for nearly twelve months in ordinary Elbe water. They grow at first very luxuriantly in moist soil, but after a few days they generally succumb to saprophytes. They retain their vitality for a long time on moist linen, on which they are often found in a state of pure culture. The vibrio is not very fastidious as regards food. It grows on agar-agar to which meat infusion and peptone have been added, in slightly alkaline nutrient gelatine, on solidified blood serum, on potatoes, milk, and, to some slight extent, even in sterilised water. This shows its adaptation to saprophytic growth. So far we have been dealing with the char- acters and habits of the microbe as observed in experiments. Little is known of its life-history outside the human body, but what little we know shows that it can retain its vitality longer than cultivation experiments would lead us to anticipate. The microbe under natural con- ditions is a hardier plant than many suppose. In the sewage-polluted water of Marseilles harbour it has been found to survive for eighty- one days. There is reason to believe that it may exist not for the few days which experi- ments indicate for its limit, but for months, perhaps for years, in the soil {see article on " Epidemiology ").