•24 BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS while essentially similar to the affection in the adult, is nevertheless distinguished by certain predominating clinical features. The actual cause of acute bronchitis in children is usually exposure to cold, but it is in the poorly clad, under-fed, ill-housed children of the poor who are brought up in dirty, ill-ventilated, over- crowded rooms that the worst forms are ob- served. Individual predisposition largely influ- ences the nature of a catarrhal attack, and while one child is prone to catarrhal affection of the upper respiratory tract, another tends to suffer from bronchial affections, and, again, others from gastro-intestinal catarrh. Rickets, dentition, and intestinal catarrh are important etiological factors, and, as Ashby remarks, during the time that a tooth is being cut, children seem very apt to suffer from catarrh, which in winter aflects the bronchial tubes, and in summer the intestines: pressure of the tooth on the gums seems to act refiexly in producing a catarrh, sometimes with more or less spasm as the child becomes wheezy at night, sibilus being heard all over the chest, while in the morning it will be perfectly well. A not unimportant factor in the occurrence of bronchitis is buccal respiration from nasal stenosis. The susceptible bronchial mucous membrane of children is unable to withstand the habitual inspiration of air unwarmed and unmoistened by normal nasal respiration, and consequently frequently recurring bronchial attacks are generally observed in childi'en witli post-nasal growths. Whooping-cough and measles are generally accompanied by bronchitis, the bronchitis very often attacking the finer tubes, and being mainly responsible for the mortality of these diseases in young children. Symptoms.—Mild, uncomplicated bronchitis in children is attended by much the same train of symptoms as in the adult, but there is a much greater tendency for the catarrh to involve the finer bronchial tubes and the air-vesicles, a condition which is always attended with graver symptoms and considerable risk to life, owing to the weak- ness of the muscles of respiration (including the bronchial muscle) and the yielding nature of the chest-walls, features which more especially char- acterise rickets. In slighter attacks the pulse is moderately quickened, and the temperature raised two or three degrees above normal; but whenever the bronchial tubes are extensively implicated, the pulse is hard, the temperature is four or five degrees above normal, the respira- tions are quick, sometimes amounting to 70 or 80 a minute, with the alee nasi distended and working. The chest is expanded in the position of inspiration, the shoulders raised, respiration being chiefly abdominal, and the accessory muscles are brought into play; and the air failing to distend the lungs, the dyspnoea is attended with recession of the chest-walls. especially of the epigastric and lower lateral regions. The skin becomes hot and dry, and the child restless and tossing, first to one side and then to the other, or having to be carried about, and constantly changing its position. The invasion may be ushered in by rigors or convulsions, and convulsions not infrequently occur in the last stages of fatal cases. It is only the milder cases which escape com- plications, especially collapse of the lung, broncho- pneumonia, bronchiectasis, and emphysema ; but in young children the onset of the attack may be severe, with great prostration, rigors or convul- sions, bronchial sjjasm, pallor and lividity, and pronounced dyspna^a, which may rapidly asphyxi- ate the child before there has been time for the development of complications. The pathological processes whicli result in collapse of the lung have already been described above (see p. 15). The symptoms are not very distinctive, imless the collapsed areas are in the aggregate sufficiently extensive to produce obvi- ously increased respiratory embarrassment, fall- ing in of the chest-wall, and dulness on per- cussion ; and even then it is always difficult, if not impossible, to eliminate the coexistence of broncho-pneumonia, which in such cases is itself the chief cause of the severer symptoms. The occurrence of broncho-pneumonia in the course of acute bronchitis may be suspected from the exaggeration of all the symptoms which usually result. " The child is restless, the cough shorter and more hacking, the skin hot and dry, the evening temperature iisually reaching 103° or 104° F. with morning remis- sions of several degrees, so that the fever assumes a remittent type ; the dyspnoea is usually great, the respirations numbering forty or fifty, but varying with the amount of fever and extent of the lung involved" (Ashby). Examination of the chest unfortunately is often of very little assistance in the diagnosis of this complication, for in place of dulness on percussion there is more usually hyper-resonance owing to the emphysematous lung surrounding the pneumonic patch, and it is rare to find complete dulness; indeed, a considerable amount of pneumonia may exist in patches without obvious diminution of the percussion resonance. Ashby draws atten- tion to the fact that while rhonchi are heard all over the chest, over the pneumonic poi'tions rales of a consonant or ringing character may be heard, which are more intense and ringing because they travel to the ear through consoli- dated lung; and he states that even though no consolidated lung can be detected by percussion, the presence of consonant, intensely ringing rales with a temperature of 103° or 104° points almost certainly to pneumonia. Walshe points to the greater diffusion of the moist rhonchi in bronchitis as compared with pneumonia. The Diagnosk of acute bronchitis in children is, as a rule, easy if suspected and sought for,