497 EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUELS 111 recent cases such adhesions may be broken down or considerably stretched l)y means of the air douche, Siegle's specuhim, or Delstanche's masseur. Lucae's probe, by exerting an inter- mittent pressure upon the ossicular chain and by producing passive movements, is at times useful, although few patients will tolerate its continuous employment. When practicable, division of cicatricial bands or excision of adherent cicatrices by means of suitable instru- ments may be tried. Mobilisation of the stapes or trephining of the footplate of the stapes has been said to produce good results in certain cases. Excision of the malleus and incus or of either when embedded in scar tissue or when so adherent to one another or to the adjacent walls of the middle ear as to be practically function- less, is undoubtedly a reasonable procedure and worthy of trial. In all such intratympanic operations strict antisepsis should be observed. Calcareous deposits upon the membrane are frequently found in post-suppurative affections of the middle ear. Such deposits may occur upon any part of the membrane. A by no means unusual appearance consists in the presence of two semilunar patches of a white or yellowish- white colour with sharply defined edges, one in front of and one behind the manubrium mallei. Occasionally the whole membi'ana tensa under- goes calcareous degeneration. Hyperostosis.—As a result of long-continued suppurative middle ear disease the lumen of the external auditory meatus may become stenosed from hyperostotic thickening of its bony walls. The accompanying stenosis may be so great as to seriously impede the free escape of pus from the middle ear and consequently to jeopardise the life of the patient. Treatment.—^Attempts may be made to dilate the meatus by means of the introduction of laminaria tents or cylinders of wool soaked in alcoholic solutions of boracic acid, acetate of lead, etc. In severe cases, and where evidences of retention are present, the mastoid antrum should be opened and the posterior wall of the external meatus chiselled away. Facial pairili/sis may result either from a parenchymatous neuritis of the facial nerve (without interstitial changes) secondary to disease within the tympanic cavity, or may be induced by a carious condition of the bony walls of the aqueductus Fallopii. If the para- lysis is due to disease within the middle ear the muscles of the corresponding side of the face become paralysed; if, however, due to central disease, the facial muscles upon the side opposite to the existing ear lesion are the ones implicated. Occasionally bilateral facial paralysis is met with. In tuberculous disease of the middle ear facial paralysis is a frequent and an early symptom. The indications of facial paralysis are a partial VOL. ir or complete inability to close the eyelids and a general want of expression (best seen during facial movements) upon tliu affected side of the face. There is also a marked drawing of the mouth to the oj^posite side and an inability to whistle. Occasionally the uvula is deflected towards the paralysed side. When the stapedius muscle is paralysed there may be an increase of hearing, and subjective noises are at times complained of. Should the paralysis be of a permanent nature atrophy of the facial muscles and even of the facial bones may take place. Ulceration of the cornea is also an occasional result. Treatment consists in dealing with the primary cause as energetically as possible. To keep up the tonus of the facial muscles massage or the application of the galvanic current may be em- ployed. Hypodermic injections of strychnia or its internal administration are occasionally^ use- ful. Iodide of potassium, e.specially in cases with an underlying syphilitic basis, may be given. The frequently repeated application of blistering fluid over the mastoid process is occasionally beneficial. Diseases op the Mastoid Process Anatomy of Mastoid Process.—The shape, size, and form of the mastoid process vary greatly in different individuals and at different periods of life. The external conformation of the process aftbrds no clue as to its internal structure, which may be wholly pneumatic, diploetic, or pneumo-diploetic. At birth the mastoid antrum is about as large as a pea, and is lined by mucous membrane continuous with that of the middle ear. The various groups of mastoid cells become developed sub- sequently around the antral cavity. According to Cheatle, the name " mastoid antrum" is a misnomer, the antrum being really a portion of the middle ear. Hence it should be called "tympanic antrum " (see p. 4-56). The antrum itself is a bean-shaped cavity. Its roof is formed by the tegmen tympani. Its iloor runs downwards and backwards into the mastoid process. Anteriorly it communicates with the attico-tympanic cavity. Its walls are perforated by the minute openings of the surrounding mastoid cells. Mastoid Periostitis may ensue either as the result of the inflammatory process spreading from the middle ear along the fibrous trabecukTe which connect the tympanic mucosa with the periosteum of the external auditory meatus, and so with that covering the mastoid process, or from an extension along connective-tissue strands of the fibrous sheaths of small blood-vessels which run between the periosteum covering the bone and the mucosa lining the mastoid cells. In children the presence of the unossified petro- mastoid fissure probalily facilitates the spread of a deep-seated inflammatory process to the 32