420 DRESSINGS produce a cheap and antiseptic dressing, and who were the first mannfactiirers to place such an article upon the market) for the following list of antiseptic dressings arranged in the order in which they are demanded :— Gauzes. Double Cyanide (Mercury and Zinc) Carbolic . Iodoform Sal Alembroth Sublimate Boric 7. Salicylic Ahsorbent L Boric Carbolic . Iodoform Sublimate Sal Alembroth Double Cyanide Percentage of Antiseptic. . 3 o 10-20 1 2 20 4 its. Absorbent Wools. 1. Sublimate 2. Sal Alembroth 3. Salicylic .... 4. Boric .... 5. Carbolic .... 6. Double Cyanide 7. Iodoform 45 5 10 I 1 4 2 4-10 35 5 3 10 Though the same general principles underlie the application of dressings to any part of the body, whether for disease or injury, it occasion- ally happens that some modification is necessary, whether on account of the nature of the wound or the part in which it occurs. 1. Dressings for injuries to and after opera- tions on the eye require, owing to the sensitive- ness of that structure, to be of a non-irritating nature. Weak lotions are used here, and the antiseptic dressings employed are those in which the antiseptic is mild, such as boric lint or gauze, or those in which the percentage of antiseptic is low. 2. Dressings for the perineum and genital organs should contain an antiseptic, owing to the difficulty of securing asepsis of the parts, and owing to the risk of infection of the wounds by the fteces or urine. 3. For artificial anus and ftecal fistula car- bolised tow is the dressing in general use; it is admirably absorbent, and the tar which it con- tains is most efficient in concealing or disguising the fiscal odour. 4. Dressings for wounds from which the dis- charge is copious—such as empyasma and psoas abscess—should be abundant and antiseptic to arrest, as far as possible, the development of pyogenic and other organisms. 5. Dressings for syphilitic sores should, in addition to the employment of an antiseptic dusting powder, such as iodoform or calamine, be impregnated with a mercurial antiseptic, and there is none better than corrosive sublimate. Black mercurial lotion is also used extensively for syphilitic sores. 6. Dressings for various diseases of the skin will be described in detail in the proper place. There can be little doubt that antiseptic dress- ings for those skin diseases in whicii pyogenic organisms are present have scarcely received that I'ecognition from dermatologists which they deserve. It is unfortunate that the majority of chemists cannot be relied upon to dispense ointments the asepticity of which is imdoubted ; and, in those cases, e.g. the various forms of eczema, more rapid healing might often result if the ointment which might happen to contain no antiseptic were aseptic, but this can rarely be the case. Certain imtoward results occasionally follow the injudicious employment of certain antiseptic dressings, or the employment of antiseptic dressings on certain indi^aduals of peculiar idiosyncrasy. Similar results sometimes occur after the use of antiseptic lotions. Boric acid may produce a localised erythema ; in exceptional cases it has occasioned a wide- spread erythema. Its internal use is much more likely to cause toxic symptoms. Carbolic acid should never be used in such concentration as to have a local irritating eifect; but as a lotion, and in the olden days when the carbolic spray was in everyday use, it not in- frequently produced severe local and general symptoms, e.g. carboluria, which have proved fatal. The hands of some are very susceptible to carbolic acid as a lotion for instruments, rendering the skin hard and liable to crack, and therefore hard to render aseptic. Salicylic acid, as an antiseptic dressing for wounds, is even more irritating than carbolic acid, and forms of eruption may be produced by its use, even in small percentages (erythematous, urticarial, vesicular, petechial, etc.). Corrosive sublimate, when used in dressings, may cause much irritation of the skin, and it is not uncommon to find parts which have been prepared for operation by the application of a wet corrosive dressing covered with an erythe- matous eruption in which many minute pustules are present. Some hands are peculiarly sus- ceptible to it, and its use by instrument-dressers not infrequently produces a painful condition of the matrix of the finger-nails. Corrosive sub- limate cannot be too carefully used as a lotion for douching wounds or mucous surfaces, for, by its absorption, it readily produces toxic symptoms. Iodoform may produce a rash of an erythe- matous, vesicular, or bullous character; and the idiosyncrasy of certain individuals is very marked in the use of this antiseptic. Wounds which