226 CONVULSIVE TIC panied by " explosive utterances," such as the repetition of an offensive or meaningless word ; habit chorea or habit spasm. <S'ee Chorea (Diagnosis). Cooking'. See Invalid Feeding {General Preparation of Food); Food (Cooldng, Effects of); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Cook- ing). Cooper, Astley. See Hernia {Femoral, Variety); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries {Dislocations, Sir Astley Cooper's Method of Re- dilution). CO-O rd i n £lt i O n. —The harmonious action of two or more muscles or sets of muscles, under the direction of the will, and for the purpose of carrying through a complicated act. See Alcoholism {Chronic). Copcliba.. See Breath {Clinical Dia- gnosis) ; Drug Eruptions {Copaiba) ; Nephritis {Acute, Etiology); Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Purpura {Symptomatic, Toxic); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Odour).—An oleo-resin obtained from various species of Copaifera (e.g. C. Langsdorfii, C. officinalis, etc.) ; it is insoluble in water, but is dissolved in absolute alcohol, ether, benzol, etc. ; it contains an oil (the ofiScial Oleum Copaiba', given in doses of 5 to 20 m. suspended in mucilage of acacia or white of egg), and a resin (containing copaivic acid, CjoHg^O.,); it has an aromatic odour and a dis- agreeable taste; and it is given in doses of i- to 2 fl. dr. (in mucilage of acacia). The chief action of copaiba is a stimulating one upon the mucous membranes of the genito-urinary tract, of the intestines, and of the lungs. It has been found to be specially useful in gonorrhoea after the acute stage has passed; it is also employed (for its disinfectant and diuretic action) in cystitis, pyelitis, and in hepatic and cardiac dropsy. Its effect upon the breath is an incon- venience, and its nasty taste requires to be disguised. See Prescribing. Copper. See Pharmacology ; Prescrib- ing ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Etiology, Toxic Substances in Food); Toxicology' (Arsenite of Copper, Copper); Trades, Dangerous {Copper and Brass) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Glucose, Tromvier's Test).—The only official form of copper is Cupri Sulphas, " bluestone." It occurs in the form of irregular deep-blue crystals, soluble in water and with a strong astringent and metallic taste. Dose—\-2 gr. (astringent); 5-10 gr. (emetic). Bluestone is applied to ulcers to reduce exuberant granulations, to syphilitic sores, to ulcers of the mouth, to small cancerous growths, etc. Lotions of strengths varying from 1 to 10 gr. to the ounce are employed for antiseptic and astringent purposes in diseases of the eye, vagina, urethra, etc. Internally in small doses it is given in the form of a pill in diarrhoea and bleeding from the stomach. In larger doses it is a prompt emetic, and has been used thus in laryngitis and bronchitis in children; and in cases of poisoning. It is specially indicated in poison- ing from phosphorus, with which it forms a stable, insoluble compound. If it fails to pro- duce emesis the stomach must be at once emptied by other means, on account of the powerful irritant efi'ect of the drug. Copper sulphate has been given empirically in various chronic nervous diseases, but probably no benefit is derived from it in such cases. Copra- or Copro-. — In compound words cop7-a- or copro- (from Gr. Koirpos, fa;ces) signifies relating to the ffcces or to defajcation : thus copracrasia is involuntary defsecation;, coprcemia is the depraved state of the body due to prolonged constipation and absorption of constituents of the fajces; copragogue is a cathartic; coprolalia, is the use of dirty words;, coprolith is an intestinal concretion (faecal); coprophagy is the eating of faical matter; and cojirostasis is the blocking of the bowel with a. hardened mass of fajces. Cor.—The heart, as used in such expressions, as Cor adiposum, a heart showing excess of the subpericardial fat; Cor bovinum, a hypertrophic state of the heart in which it comes to resemble a bullock's heart; Cor biloculare {see Heart, Congenital Malformations of), a heart in which both septa are defective, and so the heart, is double-chambered or reptilian; Cor villosum or Cor hirsutum, a heart covered externally with threads of fibrin, giving it a shaggy appearance. CoraCO-. — In compound words coraco- (from Cr. Kopa^, a crow) means relating to the coracoid process of the scapula, e.g. coraco- clavicular, coraco-humeral, etc. Coracoid Process. See Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries {Fracture of the Coracoid Process). Coral Calculi.—Dendritic calculi, form- ing in the pelvis of the kidney and constituting exact moulds of it. Cord. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases OF {Spermatic Cord, Anatomy, Torsion, Iloema- toma, and Hydrocele)';'^Pi^iAh Cord, Medical; Labour, Accidental Complications {Abnor- malities of the Umbilical Cord). Cordentery.—A teratological state met with in the chick ; it is allied to omphalocephaly ; and in it the notochord is elongated in the direc- tion of the alimentary canal and in part clothed by it. Core-. — 111 compound words core- signifies- the pupil of the eye (from Gr. K-opr], pupil), as in corectasis, dilatation of the pupil; corectopia displacement of the pupil {see Iris and Ciliary