CHOROID, DISEASES OF 139 mals it is fibrous in iiatiu'c, and, since the retinal pigment is absent from certain spots, interfer- ence of light is produced, causing a similar appearance. 5. Tlie lamina vitrea, or membrane of Brttch, is an hyaline membrane. It is continued for- wards into the ciHary body and iris. It supports the pigmentary epithelimn of the retina, and just as this layer, formerly thought to belong to the choroid, has been shown to be epiblastic in origin, so the lamina vitrea is in all probability a layer of the retina, and not of the choroid, being produced originally from the cells of the pigment layer of the retina. The choroid is almost completely supplied by th.Q short posterior ciliarT/arteries. They are ten or twelve in number, and pierce the sclerotic close to the optic nerve, passing through the lamina fusca into the deeper part of the lamina suprachoroidea ; they divide dichotomously, and pass into the capillaries of the chorio-capillaris. Except in the region of the optic nerve, where a circular arterial anastomosis exists around the disc with small branches of the arteria centralis retinfe, the anastomosing branches being called tiie cilio-retinal arteries, the branches anastomose little with each other. Anteriorly they receive a few commiuiications from the arteries of the ciliary region. The veins of the choroid anastomose very freely together; they do not accompany the short posterior ciliary arteries, but are arranged in curves, vena, vorticosce, as they converge to four or five principal trunks ; these pierce the sclerotic very obliquely about half-way between the optic nerve and cornea to join the ophthalmic vein. The lymphatics of the choroid help to regulate the intra-ocular pressure. Between the lamina fusca and the lamina suprachoroidea is a lymph space, which communicates by means of peri- vascular sheaths surrounding the venje vorticosa) with the lymph space within the capsule of Tenon. The nerves of the choroid are derived from the long ciliary branches of the nasal brancli of the first division of the fifth nerve, and from the short ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. They are chiefly vaso-motorial in action, and form in the lamina suprachoroidea a plexus, in the meshes of which ganglion cells are found. The Appearance of the Healthy Chokoid must be carefully studied before we can diagnose pathological conditions. The colour of the f undtis ocii.li seen by reflect- ing light from the ophthalmoscope is due to the following causes:— (1) The blood contained in the chorio-capillaris and lamina vasculosa; (2) the pigment-granules contained in the pigmented layer of the retina, the interstices of the vascular layer of the choroid, and the lamina fusca and lamina suprachoroidea; and (3) the sclerotic, which reflects a certain amount of light through the retina and choroid. When pigment is altogether absent from both retina and choroid, as in albinos, we get a light yellowish red colour reflected from the blood within the capillaries; whilst the interstices between the latter are seen to be of a lighter, almost white appearance, owing to the reflection from the sclerotic beyond the lamina fusca, and thus a fairly well-defined outline of the choroidal vessels is obtained. In fair persons, where the pigment-granules contained within the cells are of a faintly brown colour, the fundus is yellowish red, and the vessels of the choroid can often be seen, although less distinctly than in albinos. In moderately dark persons this pigment becomes of a deeper brown, and all details of the choroid are hidden, the fundus presenting a light brownish red colour, with no visible choroidal vessels. If, however, as is occasionally the case, pigment is scarce in the pigmented layer of the retina, while abundant in the choroid, a network of red vessels is seen upon a dark backgroiuid, the so-called choroide tiyree. In negroes, and all dark races, the pigment is so abundant as to prevent almost all red choroidal reflex, the fundus assuming a brownish grey, or even a slate colour. The colour of the fmidus varies very much with the intensity and colour of the light used, with the state of dilatation of the pupil, and with the refractive condition of the eye. It is brighter, cceteris paribus, in proportion to the number of rays of light that can be thrown into the eye. Congenital Affections of the Choroid.— Coloboma of the choroid is a congenital deformity, consisting in the absence of a more or less con- siderable portion of this part of the tunica vasculosa, and is usually foiuid in the lower and internal part of the globe. When examined by the ophthalmoscope it appears of a bright bluish white colour, with clear cut pigmented edges. The surface of the sclerotic often appears very irregular, is crossed by retinal vessels, and frequently has upon it small aggregations of pigment. The extent of the coloboma is very variable; it usually reaches from the edge of the optic disc neai'ly as far as the ciliary body. It may embrace the optic disc, in which case the latter is changed in appearance, and looks as if it were hypersemic by contrast with the white area round it. It may occur in the yellow spot region, macular coloboma ; it maybe very localised, normal choroid being seen all round it; it is often accompanied by coloboma iridis. The retina is often involved in the coloboma, though it may be present over the whole site. Occasionally coloboma of the choroid occurs in both eyes, but when unilateral the left eye is most commonl}' aft'ccted. There is a large scotoma in the visual field corre- sponding to the coloboma, but otherwise the sight in most cases is fairly good. The scotoma