343 DIAPHRAGM, SURCIICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE WliC'ii tho hernia is saddetdy developed the predominant clinical feature is intense dyspnoea with severe precordial pain, a sense of oppres- sion, and an inability to lie on the affected side, irritative cough, and a sensation that something has given way. Shock is marked, and may ])rove fatal, or death may result from com- ])ression of the lung. A diaphragmatic hernia is liable to become stranc/ulated, either at the time of its production or at any time thereafter. Some violent mus- cular effort usually determines this event, but in some cases it has been inexplainable. The patient presents all the clinical features of acute intestinal obstruction, without, as a rule, any guiding symptom to indicate the seat of strangulation. Hence the condition is seldom recognised during life. Rupture of gangrenous bowel into the pleural cavity will give rise to an empyiema, and a cure may follow its evacua- tion by thoracotomy. Treatment.—An established hernia without symptoms of strangulation is so seldom dia- gnosed that the question of deliberate surgical intervention scarcely arises. It is only in cases of recent wounds of the diaphragm, with pro- trusion of viscera, and in cases of strangulation, that treatment is possible, and then it is only by operation tliat any good can be done. (a) In recent traumatic ca^es an attempt shoidd always be made to restore the displaced viscera, after thorough purification, to their ])lace in the pei'itoneal cavity. For this pur- pose the wound may be enlarged as far as necessary, and ribs resected sufficient to give free access. The rent in the diaphragm should at the same time be closed, and the opinion of authorities is unanimous that this can best be done from the thoracic side. When symptoms of strangulation are present, other points arise for consideration. The prin- ciples which guide the surgeon under these circumstances are discussed in the next para- graph, a propox of strangulation of an established diaphragmatic hernia. {!)) Strangulation of an established diaphrag- matic hernia is so seldom diagnosed that in nearly every case any operation which is per- formed will be in the form of an exploratory laparotomy. Even then it is by no means certain that the seat of constriction of the bowel will be detected, and numerous cases are on record where this has only been found after death. When the operator is fortunate enough to recognise the obstruction, however, authori- ties are agreed that the pleural cavity should at once be opened, by a U-, T-, or H-shaped incision, with resection of ribs, and the herniated bowel exposed before any atteiupt at reduction is made, for the following reasons:—(1) In this way the fatal error of drawing a piece of ruptured or gangrenous bowel into the peri- toneal cavity in a situation so inaccessible as the vaidt of the diaphragm will be avoided. (2) The condition of the prolapsed viscus can be determined, and steps taken to purify or repair it, as may be necessary, before its re- placement. (3) It is found to be both easier and safer to reduce the hernia by pushing from above than by pulling from Iielow. (4) The facility with which reduction is effected from above is doubtless due to tlie fact that the admission of air abolishes the negative pressure in the pleural cavity. (5) The thoracic opening permits of the purification and drainage of the soiled pleural cavity, and so diminishes the risks of cmpyfcina. (6) The closing of the opening in the diaphragm is only possible if attempted from the Tipper aspect. AVhile the opening of the pleura has these surgical advantages, it miist at the same time be rememliered that it adds to the already serious condition of the patient the risks in- cident to pneumo-thorax, and may turn the balance against him. Inflammatory Affections.—Diaj)liragmatlc p>leuTisy often closely simulates the onset of acute perforative peritonitis and other surgical abdominal conditions. An ahace&si may form in the suljstance of the diaphragm, as occurred in Meltzer's case, where a young child suffering from iJiieumonia de- veloped symptoms simulating those of empyaema. After exploratory puncture with negative re- sult, the chest was opened, and a localised abscess found in the diaphragm. Perforations, how'ever, are much more common, the diaphragm becoming secondarily involved in inflammatory processes originating in neigh- bouring organs. The primary seat of disease may be in the thorax, in the form of empyfema, abscess, or gangrene of the lung, tuberculosis, suppurative pericarditis, or mediastinitis. After breaking through the diaphragm the inflammatory pro- ducts may enter the peritoneal cavity, giving rise to a sub-phrenic abscess; or may pass between the jieritoneum and the muscles of the Itack as a lumbar abscess, eventually open- ing to the skin. Where adhesions have formed between the diaphragm and some jiortion of the alimentary canal, a purulent collection, such as empyajma, may discharge itself into the bowel, and be voided by the rectum. On the other hand, the diaphragm may be perforated from below, a sub-phrenic abscess thus finding its way into the pleural cavity, lung, mediastinum, thoracic wall, pericardiimi, or even into the heart itself. Tiie perforation usually takes place through one of the abnor- mally thin portions of the muscle, through one or other of the anatomical openings in the diaphragm, or at the seat of adhesions. SuB-PiiREXic Abscess may originate in such a variety of conditions that it is by no means a rare affection. Owing to the frequency with