208 CONJUNCTIVA, DISEASES OF During the earlier stages iced compresses of corrosive sublimate lotion (1 :5000) may be applied to the swollen lids. Discharge must be removed with one or other of the weak antiseptic lotions mentioned. The plan of irrigating the conjunctival sac with large quantities of a diluted lotion of permanganate lotion with a special irrigator deserves a trial. Gonococci must be destroyed by the applica- tion, once or twice a day, of silver nitrate (2 per cent), protargol (50 per cent), or largin (5-10 per cent). Those remedies, however, must be used with great caution until the discharge assumes the characters of pus. Corneal com- plications must be treated with atropine drops (gr. 2 to the ounce), or with the galvano- cautery, as described elsewhere. Shoxild a "granular" state of the conjunctiva succeed the acute disorder, the sulphate of copper stick, applied daily, will be found the best remedy. When one eye alone is affected an attempt must be made to save the other from invasion. The most satisfactory plan may be briefly described as follows: — A watch-glass crystal is enclosed between two pieces of adhesive plaster, in which holes have been cut. This contrivance (introduced by Dr. Buller) is then fastened in front of the sound eye, which can by those means be inspected at intervals without the risk of its being touched by fingers contaminated with gono- cocci. As a further safeguard, the patient, as far as may be, should lie upon his affected side. 3. Acute Granular Ophthalmia.—Granular ophthalmia or trachoma (v. p. 209) is essentially a chronic affection, subject to acute exacerba- tions. The clinical appearances in acute cases vary much, but one feature is common to all, namely, the development in the palpebral con- junctiva of many "sago-grain" granulations. A bacteriological investigation of the secretion has in about two-thirds of my cases revealed the existence of an organism indistinguishable from Weeks' bacillus, and this is doubtless the microbe recently described by Dr. Leopold Miiller as the specific cause of the malady. Its presence may be explained by an outbreak due to Weeks' bacillus occurring in a com- munity where trachoma was prevalent. A mixed infection is thus set up, which manifests the clinical picture of an acute or subacute trachoma. The disease is invariably followed by chronic trachoma. Treatment is thatof muco-purulent ophthalmia, and, later, when chronic, that of trachoma. It must never be forgotten that acute trachoma is one of the most contagious inflammations of the eye, so that early isolation is of vital importance. 4. Membranous Ophthalmia.—Several dis- tinct forms of ophthalmia may be associated with a membrane upon the conjunctiva. The Klebs-Loffler bacillus may give rise to a slight or to a severe form of inflammation under conditions that are as yet obscure. The milder form has for years been known as croupous, and the more severe and less frequent as diphtheritic ophthalmia. The two affections are more frequent in young children, and tend to follow closely zymotic ailments, such as measles and scarlet fever. (1) Croupous ophthalmia is not unlike a rather severe form of muco-purulent con- junctivitis set up by Weeks' bacillus. The lids, often a good deal swollen, can be readily everted, and strings of glutinous secretion frequently stretch from one lid to the other. The ocular conjunctiva is congested, and may be slightly thickened. The striking feature of the affection, however, lies in the grey mem- branous exudation upon the palpebral and (more rarely) upon the ocular conjunctiva. The membrane can be stripped away, exposing beneath a thickened, red, and bleeding surface. There may be spots of diphtheritis about the lids, nose, or face ; the preauricular and angular glands may be involved; the general health is usually good. The disease is not followed by symblepharon or by cicatricial changes in the conjunctiva. The prognosis is favourable. Croupous ophthalmia is comparatively common in London. (2) Diphtheritic conjunctivitis has a clinical appearance so characteristic that a diagnosis can often be made at sight. The discharge, at first thin and scanty, after a few days turns to a thinnish pus, in which lie shreds of necrotic tissue. If the swollen lids can be everted, the palpebral conjunctiva will be found firm and lardaceous, or "brawny," either throughout or in patches. A marked feature is the presence of depressed, greyish-white areas, associated with small, dark-red, ecchymotic spots. The bulbar conjunctiva and the cornea may be covered with false membrane. The affection is followed by cicatricial changes and deform- ities of the lids. Diphtheria of the fauces or elsewhere may precede, accompany, or follow the ophthalmia. The patients, who are seriously ill, show such symptoms as raised temperature, frequent pulse, depression, ansemia, albumin in the urine, and loss of knee-jerks. A sequel is peripheral neuritis, as shown by paresis of the palate, ocular muscles, extremities, and so on. The disease is very rare in England. Treatment.—If the clinical evidence of diph- theria is strong, antitoxin should be used with- out waiting for the results of a bacteriological examination: otherwise the injection may be deferred for a time. Where Klebs-Ldfller bacilli are found, antitoxin should be immediately administered. The effect of the remedy, when used early, is remarkable. Experience has proved that antitoxin alone effects a cure. It is advisable, however, to employ local treatment as well — first, to hinder the absorption of toxins; and, secondly, to destroy organisms,