DIABETES MELLITUS 337 record in wliich tlie early symptouiis of coma Iiave isub.sided under vigorous alkaline treat- ment. Sodium bicarbonate may be given in a little milk or in an effervescing draught with a little citric acid and saccharine (Yeo); or citrate of sodium may be given (900 grains in the twenty- four hours, Lepine). During the last ten years the intrav enous or subcutaneous injections of warm alkaline or salt solutions, as recommended by Stadelmann, have often been tried when coma has become well marked. There can be no doubt (1) that this method of treatment has often a decidedly beneficial effect, but (2) that the results are usually only temporary, and a fatal termination is very rarely prevented. Solutions which have been chiefly used arc : A 3 to 5 per cent solution of sodimn bicarbonate in 0'6 to 0'7 per cent sodium chloride solution, a 3 per cent watery solution of sodium bicar- bonate, a solution of 10 grammes of sodium bicarbonate and 7 grammes of sodium ciiloride in a litre of sterilised water (Lepine), a 0'6 per cent solution of sodium chloride (v. Noorden). Intravenous injection (into the median basilic vein) is to be preferred to subcutaneous injec- tion. It is important that the fluid should be warm (Lepine recommends a temperature of 38° C. = 100-4° ¥.). A large quantity of fluid should be'used (2-^ pints Oliver, 2 litres Lepine). Usually the only result is an improvement in the pulse and a diminution of the coldness of the skin and a little diminution of the coma, so that the patient can be more easily roused. But occasionally the coma disappears partially or completely, so that the patient can converse with his friends ; usually a relapse soon occurs. DiacetiC Acid. — Diacetic acid (CH.,. OO.CUio.COOH) or aceto-acetic acid is sometimes found in the urine in diabetes (it is probably never jn-esent in health) ; with a solution of chloride of iron it gives a Bordeaux or Burgundy red colour, but not if the urine has been pre- viously boiled and allowed to cool (p. 326); it breaks up (piickly into acetone and carbonic acid. See Diabetes Meli.itus (Diabetic Coma) ; Urine, Pathological Cuaxces in {Acetone, Acefo- Acetic Acid, etc.). Diaceturia.—The presence of diacetic acid in the urine ; Gerhardt's reaction {see p. 326). ,See UxcoxsciousxEss {Avfo-iuto.rications). Diacety I morphine. See Heroin. Diachaiasma.—A fissure or cleft (from (Jr. 0(a yuAiK.), i Icioscn, and Sta)(^dXacrfj.a, a hiatus). DiachoresiS. — The excretion of f.cces (from Gr. Sta^^wpew, I pass through). DiaclirisiS. — An inunction (from Gr. ■Sta\p('<o, 1 anointj. VOL. II Diachylon. — Emplastrum plumbi or lead oleate ; diachylon ointment is formed by melting together equal parts of lead plaster and soft paraffin, and mixing with an equal ipiantity of zinc oleate ointment and mercuric oleate ointment; diachylon pills have been used to pro\'oke aliortion. Diaderm.—A blastoderm, in which there are two layers or plates of cells, ectoderm and entoderm, joined at their edge (ectental line), and surrounding a central segmentation cavity {Minot); the earliest form of the diaderm is known as the biaxtii/a. DiseresiS. — Separation or solution of continuity. In the classification of teratology, Tarutfi grouped the monochorionic twins, the [jlacental parasites, and the united twins under the heading of the disomata; to the mono- chorionic twins and placental parasites he gave the name dicvretic disomata, for the bodies of the two foetuses are separate, although there may be communication by means of the vessels of the umbilical cords; the united twins he called si/nnretic disomata (Ballantyne's Ante- natal Patlioloiji/, vol. ii. p. 623). DiagfnOSiS.—Tlie process of distinguish- ing between different states, usually different diseases; it implies a certain amount of diffi- culty, and when difficulty is absent the process is one rather of recognition than of diagnosis. Si/mjjtoiiiatic diagnosis depends upon the con- sideration of symptoms alone, while physical diagnosis is based on the physical signs which may be elicited by the medical man. It is almost tautological to speak of differential diagnosis. Diagnosis bi/ exclusion is the process by which the presence of every other possible state has been shown by the conditions present to be insufficiently established ; the only other possibility that is left is then regarded as the state which is present. See Abdojien, Clinical Investigation of ; Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; ]'(>ST-Mor,TE:\i Methods ; etc., etc. Diag^onai Conjug^ate. .SVe Labour, BiivsioiAJGY OF {Hard Passages, Diameters). DialuriC Acid.— A monobasic acid (C,H^X,,0_,) obtained from alloxan (C^H,N,0^ -f4H ,()) liy the action of hydrogen sulphide. Diaiysed Iron. — Liquor Ferri Dialy- satus (Wi/i tli ) is a mild preparation of iron, recommended in the case of delicate children, and given in doses of 5 to 30 m. in water. Dialysis. — The interdifTusion of two li(|uids (one of which is generally ])ure water) separated from each other by an animal mem- brane or parchment paper; the portion of a liquid which passes through into tiie water is called the diff'xsate, and the portion left behind is the dialijsate : crystalloids diffuse much more quickl}- than colloids. 22