COLOUR VISION 197 fact that in spite of the institution of a special colour-ignorance test in the British Mercantile Marine Regulations of 1894, no failure to pass this test has hitherto been reported. It only occurs in boys of the lowest social strata whose environment has led to a total neglect of educa- tion in the naming of colours. Influence of Heredity and Sex on Congenital Colour-Ijlindness.—These are important factors in the genesis of this condition. It occurs much more frequently in the male sex, and is usually transmitted from grandfather to grand- son, whilst the intermediate generation—both male and female members—frequently escape the defect altogether. Several brothers may be afflicted with the abnormality, in such cases the defect usually assuming the same type in all. Very rarely transference of the defect to the female members of a family is seen. The visual acuity is usually unimpaired. Uniocular cases occur, but exclusively among men. Prevalence of Congenital Colour-blindness.— Well-authenticated statistics of numerous ob- servers who have collectively examined nearly one hundred thousand persons demonstrate two facts: — (a) Its prevalence among the male sex. (b) Its equal distribution in different nation- alities. These investigations show an average of 3'59 per cent colour-blind among males, and only '88 per cent among females. This rare occurrence in the female sex has been attributed to their special earlier individual education in colour; while this does undoubtedly account for the absence among them of colour-ignorance, it is more probable that their highly developed colour-sensation is an hereditary endowment peculiar to their sex,—the outcome of a special educational development which has been in progress for ages. Acquired Colour-Blindness.—This is a con- dition of defective colour-perception due to pathological changes, affecting those whose colour vision was formerly unimpaired. In the normal trichromic eye, the visual colour-fields are physiologically limited to certain definite areas, which vary in extent according to the particular colour, and are none of them co- extensive with the field for form. Colour-per- ception is perfect only over a limited eccentric area surrounding the macula. Beyond this limit, deviations normally occur similar to those observed in the colour-blind throughout the whole retina—the differentiation of green, red, and blue being respectively lost, as the retinal periphery is approached, while at the extreme periphery is an achromatic zone capable only of form vision. The distinctive symptomatic difference be- tween congenital and acquired colour-blindness is the associated failure of visual acuity for form almost always present in the acquired variety. The defect usually annuls or abolishes the colour-perception in a definite sequence— the order of colour-disturbance being green, red, and lastly lilue. It is more frequently dependent upon pathological changes affecting the conduct- ing nerve-fibres or the colour-sensitive cerebral cells, than to a lesion of the third factor in colour-perception, viz. the retinal chromo- sensitive visual cells. This tetiological fact is probably explained by the apparently greater resistance to pathological processes offered by the photo-chemical substances than by the optic nerve-fibrils, as evidenced by the observation of Stilling, who found the colour-sense unimpaired in various forms of retinitis and choroido- retinitis, and by the statement of Leber that in such retinal affections colour-blindness only ensues when the disease has led to secondary atrophy of the nerve-fibre layer and of the optic nerve. The affection assumes a variety of types as to distribution, according to the pathological factor upon which it depends. The main varieties and the associated causes may be thus classified :— 1. The colour defect may involve to a variable extent the retinal circumference only, and remain localised to these peripheral parts. Form vision is correspondingly restricted, the condition known as "telescopic vision" resulting. This condition follows the administration of various therapeutic agents, such as quinine, salicylate of soda, ergot, and caffeine. These drugs, from idiosyncrasy or overdose, produce toxic effects, by disturbing the vaso-motor centres and inducing a condition of retinal antemia. 2. It may primarily involve the retinal peri- phery, and progressively spread over the whole retina. This is the most frequent form, occur- ring concurrently with optic nerve atrophy, whether primary and associated with general nervous disease, or secrmdary and consecutive to neuritis from any cause. 3. The defect may be limited to the central portion of the retina only, producing a central colour scotoma, which may be pericentric or paracentric according as it includes the fixation point or not. This variety includes the so-called toxic amblyopias which in reality depend patho- logically upon retro-bulbar axial neuritis. The toxic agents producing this condition are alcohol, tobacco, bisulphide of carbon, iodoform, nitro- benzol, cannabis indica, arsenic, lead, stramonium and chloral hydrate. Central colour scotoma are also of frequent occurrence in disseminated sclerosis, and sometimes as the outcome of toxtemia in diabetes. 4. It may involve the corresponding halves of each retina (chromatic hemianopsia) as in some rare cases of cerebral hjemorrhage or embolism—the field for form being unaffected. In ordinary hemiopia the loss of colour corre- sponds to loss of form.