COLON, DISEASES OF 186 normal channel of the intestine is replaced by an elongated cavity with black, ragged, sloughy walls, but passing into healthy colon above and below. I have known the whole of the trans- verse colon to be converted into such a mass. The contents of the cavity consist of a foul mixture of fteces, blood, and necrotic growth. If the sigmoid or CEecum is affected this mass may grow into the subjacent bone; if it is in other parts of the colon, it may extend into the stomach, liver, or kidneys. This state of things during life may give rise to no symptoms; on the other hand it may be easy during life to detect a tumour, especially if it is in the trans- verse colon or the caecum. The patient may pass large quantities of foul, dark grey, or black fluid motions, in which, perhaps, fragments of growth and small blood-clots are seen. Some- times between the passage of such motions the bowels may be constipated. The patient suffers pain, he wastes, and may even die before any secondary deposits show themselves. When the tumiour is in the caecum or the sigmoid, it may cause oedema of one leg and thrombosis of the external iliac vein, and when it is in the trans- verse colon, we must carefully distinguish it from an enlarged liver, carcinoma of the greater curvature of the stomach, or an omentum puckered up by some form of chronic periton- itis. The implication of other organs by direct spread of the growth rarely gives rise to any symptoms by which it can be recognised. In very rare cases of carcinoma of the large intes- tine a fistulous tract is formed, which opens either into the stomach, the duodenum, or some adjacent coil of small intestine. In rare instances the carcinomatous growth ulcerates directly into the peritoneal cavity. We now pass on to the description of the second group of cases of malignant disease of the colon, namely, those in which the growth produces obstruction. This variety of growth is usually limited to a quite small portion of the bowel, and forms an annular band, encircling the whole circumference of the affected part of intestine. The gut from the outside appears suddenly constricted, as though some one had drawn a tight string around it. The stricture is therefore quite narrow, and the peritoneal covering of the gut is usually thickened just over the stricture. From the inside the stricture appears as an annular and contracted deposit, the surface of which is irregularly ulcerated. The stricture may be extremely narrow, so that often the wonder is that the patient has pre- sented so few symptoms. The effects that occur behind the stricture of the bowel have already been described ; they are dilatation with hyper- trophy of the colon and distension ulcers. The presence of these makes life hazardous. I re- member a case in which a surgeon was to have operated on a patient one evening, but the opera- tion was put off until the next morning, and in the night the patient died from perforation of a dis- tension ulcer. On the other hand, in very rare cases the opening of a distension ulcer into some adjacent viscus, e.g. the bladder, has relieved the symptoms of obstruction, or an abscess may form around the distension ulcer; this abscess bursts externally, and thus a faecal fistula is formed. With regard to the locality of stricture of the colon, Treves gives the following table of 100 cases:—■ Sigmoid flexure . . . .58 Descending colon . . .11 Splenic flexure .... 7 Transverse colon ... 7 Hepatic flexure .... 9 Ascending colon ... 2 Caecum ..... 6 100 The symptoms of malignant stricture of the large intestine are as follow :—The patient, who is usually a man of over fifty, says that for some time past he has been losing flesh, and that he has been liable to attacks of abdominal pain, not always severe, and, to begin with, only coming on at long intervals. The attacks get more and more frequent, and gradually there may be constant pain with exacerbations. Concurrent with these symptoms difficulty of keeping the bowels regular appears. There are attacks of constipation which are at first easily relieved by aperients, but as time goes on the patient has to take more and more aperients, until at last he comes to a doctor because nothing that he takes will unlock the bowels, and then he begins to suffer from abdominal distension, nausea, with sometimes actual vomiting, loss of appetite, and furred tongue. But this by no means completes the picture, for one of the most striking things about malignant disease of the large bowel is that these attacks of constipation often alternate with attacks of diarrhoea. This is due to the fact that the retention of faeces above the stricture sets up a colitis. Thus it follows that irregularity of the bowels is one of the striking features of this disease. The motions are often very characteristic. Thus when solid they may be altered in shape and also of small circum- ference, owing to having passed through the stricture; occasionally the patient describes them as tape-like or pipe-like. Too much stress is, however, usually laid upon the shape of the motions, for it must be remembered that their shape is for the most part acquired in the rectum. But when diarrhoea is present, the motions are commonly foul-smelling, contain mucus and, it may be, necrotic fragments of growth. Whether there is constipation or whether diarrhoea is present, blood is often seen in the motions. The rectum is often stated to be ballooned, that is to say, when the finger is