CYTODIAGNOSIS 268 elements of the deposit have long been exammed critically for purposes of diagnosis; and the localisation of lesions of the urinary tract has been assisted by recognition of the kinds of epithelial cell present, together with its reaction to certain dyes, notably alizarin blue. Again, the character of the cells present in the sputum has been microscopically investigated, with results bearing upon the nature and situation of pulmonary lesions: the pi'esence of large numbers of eosinophile leucocytes in asthmatic sputum may be instanced. The contents of the blebs in certain bullous skin eruptions have been similarly dealt M'ith : here also the existence of eosinophiles in relatively large numbers in cases of true pemphigus has been noted. Lastly, most pathologists have recognised the advisa- bility of making a cytological as well as a bacteriological examination of pus obtained from any source. All these are instances of cytodiagnosis. But the method has taken a new departure during the past few years, and various inflammatory exudates have been systematically examined with a view to differ- entiating, by means of their cell content, the causes of the disease. It is to this investigation particularly that the term cytodiagnosis is now applied. In this field the chief work has been done by the French school of clinical pathologists, led by Widal, Sicard, and Eavaud. These observers have obtained results which justify them in deducing certain formulae of considerable dia- gnostic and prognostic value. These formuke are receiving daily confirmation and qualification by other investigators, including several English microscopists. The technique of the method of investigation is exceedingly simple. The fluid to be examined is collected, Alms are made either directly or after centrifugalisation—de- pending upon the richness of the material in cells and whether a quantitative examination is, or is not, needed,—and these films are examined fresh and after appropriate staining. If the fluid clots readily, as in the case of most pleural effiisions of inflammatory origin, the clot is broken up prior to examination. The various cells present are then noted, and a differential count is made after the manner of a white blood cell count. The cells met with are of four types. Three of these are identical with the commonest cells present in blood—the red blood corpuscle, the polymorphous leucocyte, and the lymphocyte. The fourth cell is the endothelial plate derived from the lining membrane of the particular cavity whence the fluid has been obtained. Consideration of the significance of hsemorrhagic eftusions lies outside the scope of this article. The endothelial cell varies in its individual characters according to the situation investigated, but also, and to a larger extent, according to the nature of the pathological process present. Thus it is smaller and shows signs of greater activity in fluids which result from inflammations, especially when acute, than in those which result from passive exudations (transudations). But it is to the relation in numbers existing between the two forms of leuco- cytes that attention has been specially directed. In the case of jdeural effusions, and in the case of fluid removed from the meninr/es by lumbar puncture—the two investigations where the method proves to be most profitable—the following formula has been sulliciently estab- lished : A high lymphocyte count during the early stages of an inflammatory ptt'ocess indicates that the cause is a tuherculous infection; a high X)oly- morphous count during the same stages indicates that the cause is an infection by some '■^pyogenic" organism—streptococcus, staphylococcus, pneumo- coccus, meningococcus, gonococcus, colon bacillus, etc. The qualification as to the stage of the disease is necessary, because it has lately been shown that during the stage of convalescence from " septic" infections, or after these infectious have become chronic, the polymorphous cells present in the exudate may give place to lympho- cytes. It follows, therefoi'e, that a change in nature of the cells from the polymorphous variety to the lymphocyte indicates a good prognosis so far as the stage of infection is concerned. This change is not infrequently seen when cytodiagnostic observations are made in cases of meningococcal meningitis, in which recovery, at least from the infective stage, is not uncommon. With regard to the actual percentage of the dominant cell present no definite statement can be made; the figures, however, are usually sufficiently pronounced in the one direction to leave no difficulty in apply- ing the formula—75 per cent, more or less, is a figure very commonly obtained. The figure may be much higher: the writer has counted a first 100 cells in the effusion from a case of primary tuberculous pleurisy, without coming across a single polymorphous cell. The occur- rence of a pyogenic infection together with a tuberculous infection shows itself by the presence of a higher polymoi'phous count than in a tuberculous infection alone. Indeed, in actual practice, the tuberculous part of the disease in these cases is not suggested by the cytodiagnostic method. Thus, pleural effusions occurring in the course of pulmonary phthisis obey the " septic " part of the formula, as also does a terminal streptococcal meningitis in the course of a tuberculous meningitis. In the case of ascitic fluids the formula is by no means so trustworthy; however, the absence of microbic infection may be inferred from the presence of passive endothelial cells and the comparative absence of polymorphous cells and lymphocytes. In the case of fluid from inflamed joints there is as yet no sufficient body of evidence at hand to warrant any con- clusions.