DIABETES MELLITUS 333 The opinion appears to be gradually gaining ground that diabetes is not a pathological entity, but rather a group of symptoms which may be produced by the various morbid changes already suggested. Possibly it is sometimes due to an endogenous or inherited morbid con- dition, and possibly to other causes. Treatment The results of treatment in the mild forms are good, in the severe forms very unsatisfactory. After a diagnosis has been made, before com- mencing treatment, the weight should be taken, complications noted, the amount of sugar esti- mated, and the urine tested with perchloridc of iron. Then a rigid diet (practically free from carbohydrates) should be prescribed in order to ascertain whether the sugar excretion can be checked thereby. If this should occur the case belongs to the mild form of the disease, and a little carbohydrate food in the form of bread is then allowed and gradually increased (if neces- sary) until the glycosuria returns. The amoiuit of bread which can be taken before the return of the glycosuria is thus an indication of the quantity of carbohydrate food the patient can tolerate. If a diet free from carbohydrates does not cause the sugar to disappear from the urine, then the patient is sufiering from a severe form of the disease. If there should be great wasting, and especially if the urine should give a marked reaction with perchloridc of iron, it is not advis- able to keep the patient long on this very rigid diet. Many authors think it is important in the very severe forms of the disease that the rigid test diet should not be commenced suddenly, as by such a procedure there is a possibility of pro- ducing diabetic coma (Ebstein, Naunyn, and others). A few days may be allowed to elapse in changing from a mixed to a rigid diet. Pota- toes may be excluded first, then bread, and afterwards all other carbohydrates. This plan appears to the writer to be important. Having determined the effect of diet and the form of the disease in any case, directions nmst be given for the future dietetic treatment—(1) as to the nature of the food; (2) as to its (/iiantiti/. The treatment must be modified in each case according to the form of the disease. A record of the weight and sugar excretion should be kept, and probably the former is the more im- portant. In the Mild Eohms of the Disease there are two classes of cases : (1) those in which the sugar excretion ceases only when carbohydrates are excluded from the diet; (2) those in which it ceases when the carbohydrates food is simply diminished in quantity. In either case the diet which is sufficient to arrest the glycosuria should be continued for several weeks. It is often found that the condition of the patient is then much improved. In the first class of cases he is able to take a little carbohydrate ; in the second class he is able to take an increased amount of carbohydrate without the glycosuria recurring. lUit in many of the first class of cases any addition of carbohydrates to the diet is followed by a return of the glycosuria. After a period of restriction, however, it is usually necessary to relax the diet a little, especially as regards bread, and to remain content if by a moderately restricted diet we can limit the sugar excretion to 500 or 600 grains daily. If the patient should be very stout a reduction of the total quantity of food is often of great service, but if wasted this should not be attempted. In the Severe Forms of the Disease, when the most rigid diet fails to remove sugar from the urine, and when there is much wasting, and especially if the urine give a marked reaction with perchloride of iron, the opinion has been gradually gaining ground for some years that a very rigid diet is injurious. In such cases, after a short period of rigid dietary (in order to determine the form of the disease), a small amount of carbohydrate food must be allowed. The diet in these severe forms should consist of nitrogenous food, fatty food, and a small amount of carbohydrate food, chiefly in the form of bread ; but saccharine food should be avoided, and the carbohydrate food should only be allowed in limited quantity. Fatty food is especially important, and should be given in large quantities, a little alcohol being also allowed to aid its digestion. Cream is of great service, and should be given freely; also milk may be allowed in moderate quantities. If coma appears to be threatening the diet should be less rigid, i.e. the amount of carbohydrate should be increased. According to Ebstein, the appearance of acetone and diacetic acid in the urine is an indication for diminishing the albumen and for increasing the carbohydrates. Articles of Diet.—When a rigid diet is indicated (either for diagnosis or for treatment), the following articles should be sanctioned or forbidden :— Sanctioned Butchers' meat of all kinds (except liver), potted and preserved meats. Ham, tongue, bacon. Poultry, game. Fish (fresh, dried, and preserved), sardines, shrimps. Broths, animal soups, and jellies (prepared without the addi- tion of saccharine or starch materials). Eggs, cheese, cream. Forhidrhn Sugar, saccharine and farinaceous articles of food. Pastry and farinaceous puddings. Rice, sago, arrowroot, tapioca, macaroni, vermicelli, semolina. Potatoes.