266 CYSTOSCOPE, THE are examined. The neck of the bladder is congested in appearance and prominent, but normally smooth in its outlines. The ureteral openings are at each end of the base of the trigone, with, it may be, an inter-ureteral bar. They may in some instances be readily seen, but in others require to be closely looked for by judging the distance and proper angle from the urethral orifice. The openings are normally transverse or oblique slits, and may not be detected until the margins are separated by urine coming through them. It is necessary, therefore, to steadily watch for a minute or two the area where we expect to find the opening, so that as the urine is ejected the orifice is seen. If the urine be mixed with blood or pus from the kidney its ejection is more readily observed. Bright blood is readily seen {v. Case 1, infra). If the prostate be much enlarged the beak of the cystoscope must be considei-ably depressed to bi'ing the trigone into view. When the examination is completed the circuit is opened and the instrument withdrawn. It is important to introduce and withdraw the cystoscope with the circuit open, as otherwise the beak, not being surrounded by water, becomes hot, and may burn the urethra. The instrument should not be kept for any time in the air with the circuit closed, as by fusion of the connections it may be injured. Value of Cystoscopy.—In obscure genito-urinary conditions, both as a diagnostic and prognostic agent, the cystoscope is valuable. It may enable the surgeon to say definitely that the bladder is or is not the source of luumorrhage, the origin of which cannot be otherwise determined. That is equivalent to deciding in some cases whether the bladder is to be opened or a nephrotomy performed. Further, even if the bladder be the seat of a tumour, cystoscopy may show whether it is suitable or not for removal. Wherever there is doubt as regards the site or nature of disease causing htematuria or pyuria, or when other means have failed to give an accurate diagnosis, cystoscopy should be used. There are two considerations, however, of nuich import- ance, which should invariably be borne in mind : — First, cystoscopy, just as all instru- mentation, should as a rule be avoided in vesical tuberculous disease; and, secotid, in patients who are seriously ill, or in whom instrumenta- tion is apt to be followed by aggravation of symptoms, whatever the reason, operation if needed should immediately follow the examina- tion. In those cases of vesical tuberculosis, where the bladder is much inflamed or con- tracted, cystoscopy should never be resorted to, as in these harm is frequently done ; simply, it may be, by over - distension of an inflamed bladder; and the method is brought into disrepute. When, however, there is no obvious tuberculous disease of the prostate, and the bladder is of good capacity, if there be doubt regarding the source of tubercle bacilli or pus, cystoscopy is valuable to determine whether the kidney is diseased and the bladder healthy. Nephrectomy in primary tuberculous disease of the kidney may be curative, and the decision to perform the operation may depend upon cysto- scopic examination showing absence of disease in the bladder. This aspect of the subject can best be appreciated by the consideration of ilhxstrative cases, of which the following may be considered fairly typical:— Case 1.—Mr. J. D., tet. 47, complained of pain in the left side and blood in the urine. There was no other symptom, and examination discovered no disease in either the kidney or prostate. Cystoscopic examination showed blood coming from the left ureteral orifice. Nephro- tomy was performed, but it was only upon cut- ting into the kidney that a tumour (sarcoma) was found and nephrectomy carried out. For one year the patient remained in good health, but then a swelling appeared at the seat of the incision, and death resulted one and a half years after operation. Case 2.—M. S. (male), ast. 60. Htematuria only symptom. Cystoscopy showed a peduncu- lated villous tumour on the right inferior aspect of the bladder about one inch above the right ureteral orifice. The tumour was removed by suprapubic cystotomy. The patient made a good recover}', and there was no sign of recur- rence for three years. Now, four years from date of operation, the patient suffers from htematuria, and a large mass can be palpated in relation to the bladder. Case 3.—Miss D., fet. 25 ; chief complaint, frequency of micturition. The urine contains a considerable quantity of pus. Pain in the right loin has been present off' and on for four years, and on palpation the kidney is felt to be enlai'ged. Cystoscopic examination showed a normal bladder. No pus was seen coming from either ureteral orifice. Nephrectomy of the right kidney was carried out. The kidney contained large vomicae filled more or less with caseous material. Case 4.—J. S. (male), xt. 50, had symptoms of stone in the bladder, but sounding failed to detect one. Cystoscopy showed a small stone behind a freely movable pedunculated middle lobe of the prostate. An attempt to crush the stone failed as it could not be grasped, and suprapubic cj'stotomy was had recorirse to. Tliis case illustrates that, even when no deep post-prostatic pouch is present, a stone may be missed by the sound. That cystoscopy is of value in cases of post-prostatic pouch for the detection of calculi is undoubted, but the examination and operation should, if possible, be carried out at the same time. In such cases castration is contra-indicated, as the stone or stones must be removed to get rid of the symptoms.