EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC NON-SUPPURATIVE DISEASE 516 application of iniiation or massage will produce undue flaccidity of the membrane, and so add to the trouble. At the Sixth International Congress of Otology in 1899, Mink stated that he had produced good effects by using Siegle's speculum in a modified way. The membrane and the malleus are first compressed by air, stopping short of pain, before massage is applied; this method, which aims at moving the base of the stapes, has not received a fair trial. With regard to operative intra-tympanic measures the general experience is that they are contradicted, but perhaps it is only fair to say that those on the stapes and inner middle ear wall are still on their trial. With regard to artificial aids in the extreme stage, lip-reading lessons are of great value, and may entirely alter the patient's outlook on life. Mechanical aids are mainly useful for individual conversa- tion ; when obtaining one, all varieties should be tried ; as a rule, the ordinary speaking-tube will be of the greatest service. C. Changes produced by Variations in Pressure. — Negative Pressure in the Tympa- num.—Concerning this little is known, but the adoption of a separate class for it is warranted by the deafness which occurs in those who work Tuider increased atmospheric pressure, such as deep-sea divers ; and in those cases in which deafness results as a result of chronic mechani- cal obstruction of the tube, such as cicatricial contraction, pressure of tumours, etc. It may be stated, however, that it is difficult to exclude the previous forms of disease in these cases; but, on the other hand, some of the changes described as having resulted from a chronic catarrh may be due to a long-continued negative pressure. Causation.—These are of two varieties :— (a.) Long-continued or often-repeated increase of atmospheric pressure on the membrane. (6) Non-aeration of the middle ear, owing to— (1) Mechanical occlusion of the tube by cicatricial contraction, pressure of tumours, etc. (2) Nasal obstruction due to any cause, especially when affecting the in- ferior meatus, as this place is practi- cally a continuation of the mouth of the Eustachian tube. (3) Paresis of the Eustachian muscles, as occurs sometimes after diphtheria, preventing by their inaction proper aeration. Patholojiy.—Of this we have nothing but con- jecture to go upon, but it can readily be con- ceived that if air is prevented from entering the middle ear by the atmospheric pressure from without, or by obstruction from within, a long- continued or often-repeated negative pressure in the tympanum Avill produce a chronic dilatation of the vessels of the lining membrane, with re- sulting hypertrophy of the tissues and fixation of the ossicular chain. Symptoms and Signs.—Those of the hyper- trophic class, plus the obvious cause which exists apart from catarrhal conditions. Prognosis.—This will depend, firstly, whether the cause can be removed; and, secondly, if removal is possible, on the results obtained by subsequent aeration of the tympanum. Diagnosis.—As far as can be judged at present this depends on middle ear symptoms and signs combined with an obvious cavise of non-aeration apart from catarrh. Treatment.—In those working under increased pressure care must be taken that there is no hindrance to the entry of air through the tube. In those cases in which non-aeration is due to obstruction in the nose or naso-pharynx, removal of the cause, if possible, is indicated with subse- (juent aeration of the tympanum. With regard to the removal of septal spurs or hypertrophied turbinals, a good rule to observe is that they should not be interfered with unless marked blocking of the inferior meatus is present, or if the passage of the Eustachian catheter is inter- fered with. When once the obstruction is re- moved and subsequent aeration fails to produce improvement, the question of intra-tympanic operations directed to removing the rigid ossicu- lar chain may be considered. D. Changes produced by Deficient Blood- Supply.—Of this form little definite is known, but cases are met with in the later periods of life when the clinical features—local and general —suggest that the impairment of hearing may be primarily dependent on interference with the sound-conducting apparatus due to defective nutrition of the soft structures of the middle ear. The subjective symptoms are a gradual deterioration of hearing power without tinnitus, one ear being usually more affected than the other, and varying with the general health and condition of the patient. On objective examina- tion the membrane may be normal, but some- times looks thinner and clearer than usual. On inflation the Eustachian tube is patent, but very slight if any improvement results, the injection of the malleal vessels after inflation being also slight. With the Siegle speculum the mem- brane and malleus often move well, but as a rule with no good effect. When tested with the tuning-fork it will be found that the internal ear is also impaired; in some the internal ear impairment seems to predominate. Paracusis and true auditorj^ vertigo do not occur. (In some cases Gardiner Browne's test gives a normal result, owing to the equal impairment of both middle and internal ears; this sign, first pointed out by Urban Pritchard, is of great value.) With regard to the diagnosis of this condition, it must be admitted that it is usually difficult, even in the presence of marked evidence of general arterial disease, to clearly separate these