epidemic 125 CHOLERA, safer, but "generally an equally unsuccessful, method of supplying the loss of water to the lilood is that of injecting water into the sub- cutaneous tissue. A formula which may be used, if it should be thought proper to try this remedy, is: Water, 1000; chloride of sodium, 4 ; carbonate of sodium, 3. The fluid itself and the instruments must be sterilised. If this is done no harm will ensue, and in a desperate case this remedy might be tried. With the object of restoring warmth in the state of collapse much benefit will often be ob- tained from placing the patient in a warm bath. Begbie fomid it particularly useful in the early stage of algidity when the patient was young and could be easily moved about. During the epidemy in Naples in 1884, Rigoletti employed the warm bath largely in the algid stage with the best results. The bath was prepared with water at the temperature of 100° to 104° F., to which some liquor ammoniac was added. Under this treatment the diarrhoea continued, but the vomiting and hiccup ceased, the pulse improved, and the secretion of urine was re-established. This method was also found of service in the recent epidemy at Hamburg, and ought to be tried. In milder cases, hot, moist linseed poultices, sufticiently large to cover the whole abdomen, sides, and lower part of chest, and changed before they begin to get cold, or the hot pack, along with friction to the extremities, should be resorted to. If stimulants are to be employed in this stage they should be used in great moderation. Muscular Cramjjs.—For relief of nuiscular cramps friction with some stimulating liniment should be employed. If this does not succeed, a tourniquet placed over the upper part of the limb, so as to constrict it, may be tried. The compression should not, however, be continued too long, but having been intermitted, it may if necessary be resorted to again. To sum vp : Our efforts must ))e directed to stop the diarrhcea in the early stage by astrin- gents. If this fail, or if the patient comes under treatment after the disease is developed, calomel by the mouth and tannic acid enemata should be employed. In the state of collapse, the warm bath, hot packs, or, in mild cases, large linseed poultices, with friction to the extremities, and a judicious use of stimulants by the mouth or subcutaneously, are the most hopeful means of relief. The typhoid symptoms which often follow cholera are to be treated on the ordinary principles applicable to the special conditions present. Cholera Infantum. SVe Gastro- intestinal DisuKDERS OF ixi ANC'Y {Diarrhoea); Colon, Diseases of ; Diarrhcea ; F.eces. Cholera Morbus. See Cholera Nostras. Cholera Nostras. Definition . . . . . .125 Etiology . . . . . .125 Symptoms . . . . . .126 Pathology . . . . . .127 Diagnosis . . . . . .127 Prognosis . . . . . .128 Treatment . . . . . .128 Synonyms. — Choleraic Diarrhoea, Cholera Morbus, Cholerine, SjM7ndic Cholera ; Diarrhee e'jjidemique (Fr.); SporaJische Cholera. (Germ.). Definition.—An acute, intense inflammation of the gastro - intestinal tract, especially of its mucous membrane, accompanied by copious watery discharges from the bowel, and in most instances introduced by acts of vomiting ; simu- lating in the later stages Asiatic cholera, but giving no evidence of the presence of the " comma " bacillus. Etiology.—The presence of poisonous bodies, animate or inanimate, within the lumen of the alimentary canal supplies the causative agent of choleraic diarrhoea, the resulting effects varying with the precise nature of the poison and the co- incident environment, both locally and generally. Many agents produce symptoms of diarrhoea physically indistinguishable from one another. The stools in true cholera, occasionally in enteric fever and malarial attacks, and those following arsenical poisoning and sunstroke, apart from any speciflc micro-organisms in them, are very similar in character to the alvine evacuations of cholera nostras. In each case the presence of the exciting- cause leads to inflammation of one, or all, of the coats surrounding the intestine, and fre- quently of the stomach also. In choleraic diarrhoea the cause may be organismal, or be derived from the products of organismal metabolism. Choleraic diarrhoea is, in fact, an inflamma- tion of the digestive canal caused by various agents, but in its results simulating Asiatic cholera moi'e or less closely; absence of the specific " comma " spirillum of the latter disease, and of the symptoms significant of this organ- ism's more intimate and potent influence upon the tissues and processes of the body, serving to distinguish it. The question of greatest interest for us is concerned with the behaviour and conduct of the bacterial species which normally inhabit the intestinal canal. When of good conduct they serve to control the fermentative processes, brought into being by their own actions, but regulated by reason of the antagonistic proper- ties severally displayed. Conmionly peaceable and useful, may they not, stimulated by for- tuitous surroundings, acquire and exhibit on occasion a power to do evil 1 Encouraged by a novel environment, aftbrding them almormal but more easily assimilable food - stuff's, may