CLONUS 168 wrist clonus, knee clonus (patellar reflex), pro- duced in normal or abnormal amount by tapping or sharply stretching one of the tendons. See Tendon-Jerks. Cloquet'S Hernia. See Hernia, Femoral {Pectineal Hernia). Closet. See Sewage and Drainage. Clothing'. See Disinfection {Practical); Nursery Hygiene {Clothing); Pregnancy, Management {Clothing). Clouds. See Meteorology {Fog and Mist). Cloudy Swelling. — Swelling with turbidity (in excess of the normal) of the proto- plasm of the cellular elements of a tissue, due to interference of some sort with the life of the cell or its metabolism ; the turbidity is due to the presence of granules in the cytoplasm, and the granules are either extraneous substances taken into the cell or precipitated matters which are normally pi-esent but in solution; the swell- ing is caused by imbibition of water; fatty degeneration may occur as a subsequent change or the cells may return to the normal; the organs whose cellular constituents are thus affected (kidneys, liver, heart) are larger in size, paler in colour, and of a softer consistence than normal. Among the common causes of cloudy swelling are toxines {e.g. of fevers), heat, and certain organic and inorganic poisons {e.g. abrin, corrosive sublimate). Clove-Hitch. — A catch or noose for temporarily fastening things together or for making ti'action on a part; in surgery a bandage or towel may be used for this purpose; the bandage so used is passed twice round the limb in such a way that both ends pass under the centre part of the loop in front, thus— Cloves. See Caryophyllum. Clown ism. — The stage in a hystero- epileptic fit during which curious contortions occur along with marked signs of emotion; it is preceded by epileptic or epileptoid convul- sions, and is usually followed by the assumption of an attitude expressing fear or ecstasy. Club-Foot. See Deformities {Lower Extremity, Foot) ; Ankle-Joint, Region of. Diseases {Tabetic Arthrc/jMthy); BursyE, Injuries AND Diseases {SimjAe Chronic Bursitis); Hydro- cephalus {Complications). Club-Hand. See Deformities {Hand, Club-Hand). Clubbing of Fingers and Toes. See Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Clinical Phe- nomena) ; Lung, Tuberculosis {Complications, Integumentary). Clupea Thryssa. — A poisonous fish, the sardine dore of the West Indies. See Snake- Bites AND Poisonous Fishes. Clyster.—A clyster (Gr. K\.v(e.iv, to wash out) is an enema or injection, used for the pur- pose of administering nutriment per rectum, or for procuring an evacuation of the bowels; the name is also applied to the pipe, syringe, or tube which is used. Cnemial.—Relating to the leg or tibia, from Gr. Kvn'^fxij, the leg; thus cnemelephantiasis is elephantiasis affecting the leg, cnemitis is inflammation of the tibia, cnemolordosis is for- ward curving of the leg, and cnemoscoliosis is lateral curving of the leg. Cnesis.—Itching. The word is derived from Gr. Kvaw, I scrape or scratch, and Kvija-fxa, an itching; thus cnesmopom2)holyx is itching pemphigus, and cnethocampa the name of a species of caterpillar which causes urticaria epidemica in some parts of Switzerland. CnidOSiS.—Urtication or the sensation of being stung by a nettle (Gr. kvlSij, a nettle); the skin disease, urticaria. Coagulation.—The conversion of a fluid (the blood) into a solid jelly, followed in a short time by the separation of the clot from the serum. See Blood {Plasma and Serum, Nature of Coagulation) ; Physiology, The Blood {Clot- ting or Coagulation). Coagulation-Necrosis.—A second- ary post-necrotic change in the tissues, charac- terised by swelling and transformation into " homogeneous masses of an increased consist- ence," as seen in infarcts of the kidney and in other tissues in toxic states. CoagU I i ns. See Blood, Test for Human ; Precipitins. Coal Gas.—The gas obtained by the destructive distillation of coal, consisting of olefines (ethylene, CoH^, methane, CH^, etc.), hydrogen, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and sulphur compounds (the three last-named constituents being impurities). See Ventilation and Warming. Water gas, which is produced by the action of superheated steam on red-hot fuel, consists of carbon monoxide and hydrogen, with hydrocarbons or illuminants added to it (carburetted); it is poisonous and ought therefore to be "odorised," for it has no