CATAKACT 62 to some other disease which of itself has caused, or is likely to cause, serious interference with vision. Of the primary cases, uncomplicated so far as any other defect of the eye is concerned, two groups may be recognised. The first group, fortunately by far the larger, includes all the cases in which there is no evidence of any general condition of malnutrition. In the second group there may be more or less reason, on the other hand, to connect the loss of trans- parency in the lens with some such condition as albuminuria, diabetes, etc. Idiopathic cataract, when primary and occur- ring in an otherwise healthy individual, is most common after the age of sixty. On this account it is usually known as senile cataract. There is, however, no necessary connection between this variety of cataract and other evidences of senility. In many cases there seems to be a more or less evident hereditary tendency to cataract. On the whole, it would appear, too, as if the younger the individual affected with cataract, the more evident was the hereditary predisposition. Apart from heredity, which is by no means always traceable, there does not appear to be any general state associated at all intimately with the appearance of cataract. All that can be said is that, on the whole, there is a tendency increasing with age for the nutrition of the lens to become impaired, and that this tendency is greater in some families than in others. Prob- ably the structure of the lens itself predisposes to defective nutrition. The lens is an epithelial structure, which, as time goes on, becomes more and more compressed and sclerosed in its central portion. This compression results from the continual growth of new lens fibres which go to form the outer layers, whilst the old, effete tissue, not being removed, gradually accumu- lates. The oldest and most horny portions of the lens, instead of being rubbed off, as in the skin, are thus collected in its centre. This arrangement of itself seems to predispose to difficulties of nutrition. These difficulties are more insuperable in some individuals than in others, altogether independent of anything but mere local conditions. Whatever be the true and complete explanation, it is of practical im- portance to recognise that the term senile as applied to cataract has only a restricted sense. The appearance of cataract is therefore not necessarily, or even commonly, an indication of any general breakdown. Most cases of senile cataract are cortical cataracts, i.e. the loss of transparency which takes place is limited to the cortex. In very old people the lens nucleus may become clouded, and then usually assumes a dark brown or almost black colour. This is sometimes, and especially when the colour is very dark, called black cataract {cataracta nigra). A better term is nuclear senile cataract. Although in the aged the nucleus of the lens comprises almost the whole of that structure, so that very little cortex remains, the true nuclear senile cataract not being such an essentially degenerative change, a nuclear cataract does not cause such a complete loss of vision as is caused by an ordinary ripe senile cataract. Diagnosis.—Mere inspection of the eye reveals a greyish opacity in the pupil. The pupil itself is freely movable, contracting as light falls into the eye, and dilating when the eye is shaded from the light. The history, too, is one of gradually increasing blindness until the details of objects have become indiscernible, and only the move- ment of large bright objects in front of the eye, or it may be only the difference between light and darkness, can be made out. The earlier stages of cataract, as well as the differential diagnosis between visual defects due to intransparencies of the lens or to other causes, can only be made with the ophthalmoscope. Any in transparency in the dioptric media (the vitre- ous, lens, aqueous, and cornea) appears in the disc of fundus rejlex (see " Eye, Examination of") as a dark area interrupting its continuity. When dark spots are seen in this way, the dia- gnosis of the site of the intransjjarency has next to be made. A preliminary examination of the cornea and aqueous made by oblique illumination enables us to see how far any intransparencies in these parts contribute towards the appear- ances seen with the ophthalmoscope. If there are no corneal nebula) and the aqueous is clear, these parts of the eye can be excluded, and the question then is whether the dark areas inter- rupting the fundus reflex are due to intrans- parencies in the lens or vitreous humour. Opa- cities in the vitreous are often movable, i.e. move independently of the eye when once set in motion by eye movements. Lens opacities are, on the other hand, stationary. The differential dia- gnosis is usually easily made, although in some cases of opacities lying far forwards in the vitre- ous there may be some difficulty. The pujnl in old people often appears grey or greenish grey. It presents then a very different appearance from the dark, black pupil seen in earlier life. This grey appearance is due to light reflected from the anterior surface of the lens. In young people the superficial layers of the lens have a refractive index very nearly e(][ual to that of the aqueous. Consequently little or no light is reflected from the surface of separation between these two media. The greater hardness of the older lens, with its consequent greater refractive index, causes considerable re- flection from the lens surface. This reflection is sometimes so great as to give the appearance on mere inspection of cataract. Inasmuch, too, as old people often complain of failing sight from other causes than cataract, it is important not to mistake the condition described for