235 CORNEA iiieiiibur of a family, point to a peculiarity in the tifisiies capaVilc of being transmitted from one generation to another, and f.ivourable to the growth of certain organisms. The actual relationship with tubercle is probably no nearer than this : jjhlyctenuhe liave been excised and examined frequently without revealing the presence of anything but staphylococci; tubercle bacilli have never been foinid. Treatment.—This should be local and general. Locally a little boric acid lotion, ten grains to the ounce, should be dropped into the eye about three times a day ; if there is any photophobia or spasm of the lids atropine should be used night and morning. It is necessary to get a view of the cornea—often a matter of difficulty ; this can generally be done by some coaxing; it may be necessary, however, to use lid reti'actors, or even to give an antesthetic to get a view. In many of the cases in which the spasm of the lid is greatest the involvement of the cornea is only trivial. It is often possible to obtain relief of the spasm by the sudden shock of cold water falling on the face from a sponge held above the patient; or if the spasm is great and the corneal involvement small, it is useful to evert the lids, dry the conjunctiva, and apply to it freely and to the skin of the lid, especially if eczema be ])resent or the cantlms be cracked, a solution of nitrate of silver, mopping up the excess ; a few hours after the application the child sometimes spontaneously opens the eyes. AVhcn the stage of irritation has ]iassed, yellow oxide of mercury, four grains to vaseline one ounce, may be used for a considerable time. The fascicular form is very tedious ; if the crescentic area is yellow and advancing it must be cauterised, or scraped and touched with carbolic acid, or with the point of a stick of mitigated nitrate of silver. As a rule it is better not to bandage the eyes, coolness, free access of air are good ; to protect the eyes from light, goggles or a shade may be used; bleeding and blisters are useless and harmful ; a seton in the scalp is a very active remedy in cases which resist all other kinds of treatment, but it is liable to set up cellulitis of the scalp with sup])uration in the neighbouring glands, so that it should o\\\y be used in those cases in which all other methods have failed. As to (jeneral treatment, it is well to begin with a purge followed by iron, arsenic, or (pnnine and cod-liver oil or cream as an addition to the diet, regulation of the hours of feeding, the forbidding of cakes or inn-ipe fruit between meals ; a change of air to the country or seaside is most beneficial ; if this cannot 1)6 secured, the child should be made to live in the open air as much as possil)le. The local skin affections should be treated, adenoids removed, and dis- infection of the nose and throat secured. Affkctioxs of the Corse a associatku wrni THE Formation of Bull.e.—Herpes of the Cornea. —This ati'ection appears under two forms, simple febrile herpes and the more severe herjies zoster. Febrile liei-pes occurs chiefly in children during a febrile attack, such as exanthematous fever, pneumonia, or even a catarrh of the re- spiratory or nasal passages. During the early stage there are intense photophobia, spasm of the lid, and lachrymation; one or more minute blisters form on the stirface of the cornea, and when seen some of them may be entire, contain- ing fluid, or more generally tliey lune burst, and Ave see a shred of epithelium attached to the edge of a shallow pit in the cornea. The bulke may be arranged in line, or they may form a constellation in one jiart of the cornea; the edge of the pit is quite clear and sharp, and appears as if a piece of the cornea had been cut out by a spud or finger-nail. The healing generally takes \)\-Ai:Q as in an ordinary ulcer after the shedding of the epithelium. The sensibility of the cornea is said to be lowered in the region of the blisters, and the tension is also said to be reduced ; it is difficult to apply satis- factory tests in the condition of irritation present, but the tension is not always lowered, and the cornea is sometimes hyperassthetic; these may vary in the different stages of the affection. Febrile lier])es is only characteristic in the earliest stage, when it is not often seen ; at a later period it cannot be distinguished from a simple or phlyctenular ulcer. Treatment.—Rest, shade for both eyes, atro pine, and general treatment of the catarrhal state are measures generally enough to heal the ulcer without leaving a mark, but it may become infected like any other ulcer (see general remarks on Treatment of Ulcers of the Cornea). Ilerjiea wster of the cornea occurs as part of herpes zoster ophthalmicus, an inflammation of the first division of the fifth nei've or (iasserian ganglion. Where the supra-orbital or supra- trochlear branches only are afi'ected the cornea as a nde escapes, but when the nasal branch is involved, shown by the spots occurring on the ti]) of the nose, there are generally ulceration of the cornea, iritis, and sometimes cj'clitis ; the nerves of the front of the eye are derived from the nasal branch of the fifth nerve by way of the long root of the lenticular ganglion. The herpetic attack is preceded by intense neuralgia, pain and swelling of the lid ; this latter is so great that the affection is often thought to be ei-ysipelas ; one or two vesicles appear on the cornea and form ulcers ; in spite of the intense pain the cornea is as a rule completely ana's- thetic, and may remain so for a long period. The treatment of the ulceration is that of a simple ulcer, but it must be borne in mind that the cornea is insensitive and cannot jjrotect itself against foreign bodies and other kinds of injury, so that it nnist be bandaged and care- fully watched.