DRESSINGS 421 have been stuffed with :ui iodoform dressing;', or cavities — sucli as tuberculous joints — wliich have been filled with an iodoform emulsion, occasionally result in the appearance of an erysipelatous rash, which rapidly disappears on the withdrawal of the antiseptic ; but there are on record many cases which have resulted in death by the absorption of iodoform. A not unimportant aspect of surgical dressing is that of rendering first aid to the wounded. There are now many thousand men and women in Great Britain who have received certificates of proficiency from the St. John's or the St. Andrew's Ambulance Association, and who con- sider themselves qualified (among other things) to apply a temporary dressing to those wdio liavc sustained wounds. The lecturers of those associations cannot be sufficiently impressed with the importance of teaching their pupils the value of interfering as little as possible with wounds, and instead of washing them out, even with an antiseptic lotion, of merely covering them with an aseptic dressing, however homely, which can be rapidly and easily obtained. Von Bergmann found in the Russo-Turkish war tlia,t in 15 selected cases of compound comminuted fracture at the knee-joint, thorough disinfection of the surrounding skin, the appli- cation of a salicylic gauze dressing and a plaster of Paris splint proved sufficient for 14 to heal without suppuration. For the temporary treatment of wounds on the battlefield, it can scarcely be expected that an aseptic dressing will be at hand, and army surgeons have usually to employ an antiseptic dressing, but it is desirable that those dressings should be first sterilised. Drinkingf-Cup. See Invalid Feeding (General Serving of Food). Drinkingf-Water. See Constipation {Causes, Briiikituj-Water); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Goitre, Etiolufii/); Toxicology {Plumhism, Drinl-iiuj-Water); Typhoid Feveh {Etioloftij, Water Supply). Droitwich. See Balneology {Great Britain, Muriated); Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline Waters). Dromotherapy.—Treatment by run- ning exercises in the attitude of Hexion ("la course en flexion "); the arms are flexed at the elbows and held well back, the head is slightly elevated, and the spine kept straight; it is recommended in cases of disease due to slowing of nutrition and the troubles arising therefrom, and it forms a useful variety of I'espiratory gymnastics in chronic disease of the lungs (F. llegnault). DromotropiC. See Bathmotropic In- fluence. Drop. See Domestic Measures {Minim). Dropsy. See also Abdominal Aneurysji {Pressure - Symptoms); Ascites ; Beriberi ; Diabetes Mellitus ; Dropsy, Epidemic ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Car-diac Disease, Dropsy) ; Heart, Myo- cardium and Endocardium {Symptomatology, Dropmj); Lardaceous Degeneration {Effects); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Integu- mentary System, (Edema); Nephritis {Clinical Features, Acute, Chronic); Ovaries, Diseases OF {Symptoms of Ovar-ian Tumour); Preg- nancy {Affections of the Amnion, Hydramnios); Scarlet Fever {Complications, Diseases of the Urimiry System). — Dropsy is defined as the accumulation of fluid in the subcutaneous tissue and serous cavities of the body. Various terms are applied to this condition as met with in different situations, e.g. ascites, hydrothorax, hydrocele, and hydrocephalus. The terms oedema and anasarca are also em- ployed, the former indicating local dropsy in subcutaneous tissue, the latter widespread general dropsy. Dropsy is a symptom, and is usually asso- ciated either with primary cardio-vascular or renal disease. In both instances the diagnosis of the case can readily be arrived at. Altliough occasionally there are mixed cases, where the cardio-vascular lesions are secondary to renal disease, cases are occasionally seen with well- marked dropsy of the lower extremities, appar- ently of causeless origin. One such case, a girl of sixteen, has come under the writer's observa- tion. Here cardiac and renal diseases could be excluded. Similarly filariasis, and a careful pelvic and other examination revealed nothing that might by pressure or otherwise produce the disease. The treatment of this case was as unsatisfactory as its nature was doubtful. The significance and treatment of dropsy will be considered in the articles dealing with the "Heart" and "Nephritis," and the local dropsies under their respective headings. The only outstanding local dropsy meriting special attention is ascites, and this is fully considered in vol. i. p. 285. The object of the present article is to give a general outline of the etiological factors at work in the production of dropsy. Although much could be written on this subject, we know comparatively little of definite practical importance. Every clinician is familiar with cases of advanced cardio-vascular disease without dropsy, and of other cases less serious in nature where aKlema may be a prominent feature. The same can be said of various forms of kidney disease, and so far, there is no adequate explanation forthcoming for these anomalies. The question really resolves itself into the fundamental one of the primary factors concerned in the movement of lymph, and then