DYSENTERY 438 cocci are often very abundant in dysenteric stools, their multiplication being favovired by the inflamed condition of the bowel. All pathogenic micro-organisms vary in virulence, but none more so than the streptococci, and experiments show that in some forms of dysentery, at least, they play an important part in the dysenteric process. The experiments of Zancarol and of Celli and Fiocca seem to place it beyond doubt that dysenteric lesions may be produced by the administration, by the mouth or rectum, of pure cultures of virulent streptococci derived from dysenteric stools. While the former pathologist inclines to regard the streptococcus as the principal pathogenic agent in dysentery, Celli and Fiocca relegate it to a secondary position, but claim for it the power of exalting the virulence of the bacterium coli commune (which they look upon as the ordinary specific microbe of dysentery) into that variety which they have named the bacterium coli dynenUricmn. These pathologists have occasionally found in dysenteric stools a small species of proteus which is also found to in- tensify the virulence of the B. coli commiuie, and with which they have succeeded in some instances in producing dysenteric symptoms in animals. Bertrand and Baucher found the B. pyocyaneus in the stools both of the epidemic dysentery of France and those of the chronic dysentery of warm climates, but more abundantly in the former. Calmette found this organism not only in the stools of acute dysentery in Cochin China, but also in the ulcerations of the large intestines and in the blood. He ascribes to it the preponderating role in the causation of dysen- tei-y, maintaining that it alone of the microbes present in the stools is capable of reproducing the lesions of dysentery. These statements have not been confirmed. Anaerobic vibrios are met with in a consider- able number of cases both of the acute and chronic disease. The inflated condition of the stools is ascribed to the presence of these microbes. They are merely occasional and subsidiary agents. All recent observers recognise the bacillus coli communis, or rather a virulent variety of it, or some closely allied organism, as one of the most important pathogenic agents of dysentery. It was one of the microbes constantly met with by Bertrand and Baucher. This was probably the bacillus found by Chantemesse and Widal in the walls of the intestine and mesenteric glands of one who had died of dysentery, and in the stools of those suffering from the disease. Maggiora found it in large numbers in every case he examined, and he proved experimentally that it could produce dysenteric lesions in animals. It is to the researches of Celli and Fiocca, however, that we are chiefly indebted for our knowledge of the part played by this bacillus in the causation of dysentery. They, in collaboration with others, have shown that by itself it is capable of setting up dysentery in animals whether administered by mouth or rectum, and that the toxins obtained from pure cultivations give rise to dysenteric symptoms and lesions, that the serum of dysenteric patients causes agglutination of the B. coli dysentericum. This bacillus, although capable by itself of giving rise to dysentery, is generally associated with streptococci, which exalt its virulence within the body and in fsecally polluted soil. Arnaud, according to Scheiibe, has also come to the conclusion that this bacillus, when its virulence has become intensified by association with other microbes, or in some other manner, is the specific microbe of dysentery. Quite recently Shiga, working in Kitasato's Institute in Japan, has isolated and cultivated a bacillus which is not found in healthy men or animals, but which is always present in dysen- teric stools, in the lesions of the colon and rectum, and often in the mesenteric and retro- peritoneal glands of those who have died of dysentery, but never in the liver or spleen. He describes it as a short bacillus, similar in morphological characters to the colon bacillus. He found the cultures of this microbe to present the phenomenon of agglutination with the serum of persons suffering from dysentery, but not with that of healthy persons or of those suffering from other diseases. This bacillus is believed to be identical with the B. coli dysentericiim of Celli and Fiocca. There is thus a large amount of evidence pointing to a variety of the B. coli communis as one of the chief agents of epidemic dysentery, and possibly also of other forms of the disease. The Johns Hopkins Commission to the Philippine Islands has succeeded in isolating a bacillus that answers to all the tests applied to the B. coli dysentericum. We have met with no description of its characters. Ogata in 1892 found a short bacillus in dysen- teric stools, about a quarter of the length of the tubercle bacillus, which, when introduced by mouth or rectum, caused dysenteric symptoms in animals. We have met with no further accounts of this microbe. It seems evident from these researches—(a) that a chief place in the pathogenesis of dysen- tery, or of some forms of it, must be assigned to that variety of the B. coli communis known as the bacterium coli dysentericum ; (h) that a virulent form of streptococcus and a small proteus, possibly also other organisms, are capable of initiating the dysenteric process; (c) that bacteria that are themselves powerless to give rise to dysentery are nevertheless active agents of mischief, some of them by increasing the virulence of the specific microbes, others by pro- moting suppuration and ulceration. The types of dysentery caused by the individual organisms, or their grouping, have not been determined.