CONTUSIONS 222 while one of corresponding size and severity over the pelvis of a weakly patient will persist for as many months. In all contusions of the second degree there is marked swelling of the whole area involved, especially when the subcutaneous areolar tissue is abundant and open, as in the eyelids, scrotum, penis, and labia. In contusions of superficial parts there is always at first great pain and tenderness on pressure, but it soon passes off. When dense fasciae, ligaments, or periosteum are involved these symptoms are more severe and lasting. Traumatic neuralgia along the course of a bruised nerve-trunk is not uncommon* and marked hypercBsthesia over a bruised area fre- quently persists for a long time. Although the degree of shock is not always proportionate to the severity of the injury, sudden syncope fre- quently results from severe bruises of the testicle, abdomen, or head, and occasionally marked nervous depression follows these injuries. The function of a bruised part is always seriously interfered with while the effusion and swelling last. The only evidence of general constitutional disturbance is a temporary elevation of tempera- ture to 102° F., or even higher—a form of waste- product fever. Among the rarer clinical features may be mentioned general ancemia, when the local effusion of blood is very great; traumatic ictertis, when the blood pigment is deposited throughout the skin of the body; and fat embolus, which is usually associated with a complicating fracture. The clinical features of contusions of the thi^^d degree are of secondary importance to those of the graver injuries with which they are usually associated—fractures, dislocations, laceration of large vessels, nerves, or muscles — conditions which in diagnosis and treatment overshadow the accompanying contusion. Treatment.—The main indications are (1) to prevent the further effusion of blood; (2) to alleviate the pain; (3) to maintain the vitality of the damaged tissues; (4) to promote the absorption of the blood and lymph already extravasated; (5) to avoid, or (6) to combat, bacterial infection. If seen immediately after the accident the part should be placed at absolute rest in a slightly elevated position. Firm elastic pressure through a thick pad of cotton-wool is of great value in arresting the effusion; and cold (in the form of ice), lead and opium lotion, or a weak carbolic compress, are useful adjuncts. When extravasation has already taken place massage is the speediest and best method of dispersing the effused products. The part is deeply kneaded and rubbed in a centripetal direction once or twice daily, and the patient is encouraged to move the part freely after each sitting, in order that the muscular movements may augment the action of the rubbing. Any abrasion of the skin of course contraindicates the employment of massage. When the effusion is so large and so tense as to threaten the vitality of the tissues an incision may be indicated, but is only to be practised when the certainty of maintaining asepsis is assured. Septic complications will be met on general principles by incision and drainage, or, if neces- sary, hy amputation. Medico-Legal Aspects of Contusions.— Contusions have often very important medico- legal bearings. When called to see a suspicious case the practitioner should note (1) the date when the bruise is alleged to have been inflicted ; (2) the date of the examination; (3) the degree of the contusion and the precise colours exhibited at the time of examination, as an indication of the approximate age of the ecchymosis ; (4) the shape of the discoloured area, in association with the character of the instrument with which it is alleged to have been produced ; (5) the presence or absence of evidence of such complications as fracture, dislocation, external wounds, or injuries to internal organs. It is well to bear in mind that those suffering from scurvy, haimophilia (bleeders), and fat, anaemic persons in a low state of health may have extensive ecchymoses produced on their bodies by very trivial injuries, and further that ecchymosis may occur, apart from external injury, from violent muscular efforts, as in attempting to recover one's balance, or during severe vomiting or other form of straining. It is also worthy of note that many old people with weak circulation have darkly discoloured patches on the legs and feet which closely re- semble contusions, and might be mistaken for them on the cadaver. The necessity for dis- tinguishing between bruising and post-mortem lividity need only be mentioned. On the other hand, the absence of ecchymosis does not prove that no external violence has been inflicted, as severe blows, especially over the abdomen and thorax, are often not followed by external signs of bruising, even although internal organs are seriously damaged. Violence inflicted on a living body may not be manifested by ecchymosis till after death, while blows dealt on a recently dead body (within two hours of death) may produce signs exactly like those occurring on the living. If, however, the body be cold and cadaveric rigidity has set in, the appearances of contusions on the living cannot be produced by external violence. If a bruise on a dead body be found uniformly blue or livid, the presumption is that the blow was struck immediately before death, while a play of colours round the margin suggests that some time has elapsed between the infliction of the injury and death. That the eff"used blood has remained fluid is not proof that the contusion was sustained after death.