DRUG ERUPTIONS 424 Traumatica") ; and our attention may there- fore be wholly fixed: (A) On the nature and varieties of the eruptions produced by the in- gestion of medicinal substances; and (B) in detail, on the various more important drugs associated with the occurrence of skin lesions. It is clear that in an article of this scope no exhaustive treatment of the subject is possible, and therefore only the more frequent forms of drug eruption will be dealt with. A. Considering the variety of substances which in their assimilation or elimination are capable of giving rise to such eruptions, it is not a matter of wonder that the forms assumed do not conform to any one type, but are in the widest degree polymorphous and interchange- able. Thus similar lesiops may be produced by different drugs in different individuals ; or erup- tions widely different produced by the same drug in persons whose individual susceptibility defies computation. In fact, in these cases no class of skin lesion has been left unexampled ; and, while in the majority of cases they are erythematous in type, they are capable of all the variations which are met with in that large and inconstant group. They may simulate the acute exanthems of measles, variola, scarlatina, or rotheln; they may mimic with startling accuracy the forms of cutaneous erysipelas; they may be erythematous, papular, urticarial, vesicular, pustular, bullous, or even gangrenous, according to the degree of reactionary inflammation elicited in the given individual. Hence, in many instances, the diffi- culties which surround the diagnosis and the errors into which those unacquainted with the polymorphous lesions have been led. Thus cases have been recorded in which fatal results followed the administration of the iodides, the patients succumbing to a bullous and gangrenous derma- titis induced by progressively increasing doses administered for the cure of an imaginary syphilide. The following tabular list, in which the effects following the external application of drugs have been compared with those resulting from their internal administration, may prove iiseful for purposes of reference :— Types of Eruption and Drugs associated WITH THEIR Occurrence 1. Erythematous. (a) From External use.—Aconite, Arnica, Balsam of Peru, Boric Acid, Carbolic Acid, Chrysaro- bin, Croton Oil, Iodoform, Oil of Cade, Tar, Turpentine. (h) From Internal use.—Antipyrin, Antitoxin, Arnica, Arsenic, Belladonna, Boric Acid, Bro- mides, Chloral Hydrate, Copaiba, Cubebs, Hyoscyamin, Iodides, Morphin, Quinine, Phenacetin, Rhubarb, Salicylic Acid, Stra- monium, Sulphonal, Tar, Turpentine. 2. Papular, Vesicular, Pustular {mixed, con- jluent, and exaggerated forms). (a) From External use.—Aconite, Antimony, Arnica, Bichromate of Potash, Cantharides, Carbolic Acid, Chrysarobin, Oil of Cade, Croton Oil, Iodoform, Ipecacuanha, Mercurial Salts, Rhus Toxicodendron (" poisoning "), Sulphur, Tar, Terebene, Thapsia. [b) From Internal use.—Aconite, Antimony, Arsenic, Borax, Bromides, Cannabis Indica, Chloral Hydrate, Copaiba, Cubebs, Digitalis, Ergot, Iodides, Iron (principally the iodide). Quinine, Sulphur, Terebene. \ 3. Urticarial. (a) From External use.—Aconite, Balsam of Peru. (6) From Internal use.—Antipyrin, Antimony, Bromides, Copaiba, Iodides, Quinine, Mor- phin, Santonin, Sulphonal. 4. Pigmentary. (a) From External use.—Chrysarobin, Picric Acid. {h) From Internal use.—Argenti Nitras, Arsenic, Antifebrin. Regarding the etiology of these eruptions but little is definitely known. It has been held that they are due to an elimination of the toxic sub- stances themselves, or of some subtle compounds formed from them in the tissues, by means of the cutaneous glands, especially the sebaceous follicles; and support of this view has been sought for in the fact that the tendency towards the development of such lesions is largely aggra- vated in cases of renal or cardiac inadequacy. This, which means a compensatoiy eliminative activity of the skin glands, presupposes a certain degree of saturation of the system with the drug ; but clinical experience goes to prove that toxic dermatoses are just as likely to occur in cases where only a few, and those minimal, doses have been given, as in cases where a certain amoimt of accumulation has taken place from prolonged and continuous administration. Stress has also been laid on the fact that in some cases traces of the offending drug {e.g. bromine, iodine, etc.) have been detected in the secretions of the skin ; but these observations have by no means been universally confirmed, which would be essential to the establishment of the postulate; while in nearly all cases evidence of the elimina- tion of the drug in the urine can be obtained. Further, histological examination has shown conclusively that the cutaneous lesions are not confined to, or even mainly manifested in con- nection with, the glandular apparatus of the skin. The neighbourhood of the blood-vessels shows the most pronounced changes—general hyperaemia, and small multiple inflammatory areas, which often become abscesses of micro- scopic size ; while the glandular structures—the