486 EAR: ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE MIDDLE EAR bright red with a yellowish background ; or a yellow spot may indicate the point at which perforation is about to take place. When the membrane is oedematous it is sometimes not easy to recognise a small perforation with the eye, but if there be fluid in the meatus, to which a pulsation is commimicated, it is safe to assert that the perforation exists. When extensive necrosis of tlie membrane has occurred the position and extent of the perforation can generally be made out after the meatus has been dried out. The secretion from the tym- panum may be mucus, serum, pus, or blood, but more frequently it consists of a combination of these. The glands behind and below the ear may be swollen and tender, and the soft parts over the mastoid may be oedematous or slightly reddened. Facial paralysis is occasionally though rarely observed in the co^irse of an acute middle ear catarrh from effusion into the Fallopian canal. The most severe cases of otitis media occur in the course of attacks of scarlatina, measles, and diphtheria, and it is probably due to the oi'ganisms present in these cases that the in- flammation is of such severity as to cause rapid and extensive destruction of the membrane, and often the early onset of mastoid or other complications. In otitis associated with tuberculous disease the symptoms seem to attract less notice than usual, because there is generally but little pain. The appearance of a purulent discharge may be the first intimation that the ear requires attention ; all the same, these cases very readily become chronic ones. Influenza is said by some to modify the symptoms of otitis occurring in its course. A h£emorrhagic form of middle ear disease associated with influenza has been described, and a tendency to persistence of mastoid pain after the local conditions have improved is not uncommon. The latter is probably a neuralgic condition due to the well-known depressing power of the disease. Considering the great frequency of so-called influenza, it would appear that the disease does not tend to cause middle ear inflammations to any greater extent than one would expect, in view of the tendency to catarrh of the air passages which accompanies it. An opposite opinion is, however, held by several writers. Results.—The results of acute otitis vary greatly according to the type and severity of the attack. In a simple acute catarrh the majority of cases tend to recover with almost no special treatment. In catarrh with' exudation also the result may be—(1) a complete recovery without perceptible changes, (2) recovery with some adhesions and slight defect in hearing, or (3) a perforation with purulent discharge. The result of acute purulent inflammation may be— 1. Complete cure, with healing of the membrane. 2. Closing of the perforation by cicatricial tissue and adhesions. 3. Continuance of the perforation with or without a chronic discharge. 4. Certain complications which may be dangerous to life. We have already mentioned that facial paralysis and labyrinthine deafness may occur in the course of an acute otitis, and to these complications may be added mastoid disease, polypi, meningitis, cerebral abscess, thrombosis of the lateral sinus, and septicsemia. As these are much more frequently the accompaniment of chronic suppuration we shall not further refer to them here. No hard and fast rule can be made to decide when an acute otitis should be classed as a chronic case. A consideration of the symptoms will help to decide this question; but, speaking very generally, when a purulent discharge shows no signs of abating after six weeks or two months under treatment, it may be considered that the case is becoming a chronic one. Diagnosis.—The history of the case, taken along with the symptoms and appearances which have been mentioned, makes the diagnosis of a typical case one of no great difficulty. It is a more difficult matter, sometimes, to make an accurate diagnosis when the appearances are masked by some other ear affection, or when we have superadded some of the more serious complications which may supervene in the course of an otitis media. It should be re- membered that pain and deafness, the prominent symptoms, are to be met with in various ear conditions, and hence it is not surprising that the true nature of the case is not always evident at the first glance. For example, in furun- culosis we find great pain and deafness if the meatus be much blocked by swelling, and possibly a little discharge ; in neuralgia from bad teeth we often have acute pain located in the ear, hypertemia of the membrane, and slight deafness; and plugs of wax, foreign bodies pressing on the drum, eczema, and inflammation of the external meatus may for a time obscure the real condition. Perforation of the drum is sometimes difficult to detect, but the occurrence of this condition can generally be discovered by inspection of the drum, by noting the secretion, and if necessary listening to the sound produced while air is injected into the tympanum. In certain cases, where the constitutional symptoms are very severe, the ear may at first escape notice and examination, and typhoid fever or meningitis may be suspected. In infants acute otitis is not uncommon, but the diagnosis is apt to be overlooked becaiise the little patient is finable to indicate the seat of the pain, and the deafness may pass undiscovered. The general symptoms are often very severe,