calcarp:ous concretions and deposits 47 Deposits. See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Minor Conditions); Tonsils {Chronic Tonsillar Abscess); Tuberculosis {Morbid Anatomy); Tumours (J/ijomata). Calcareous Degreneration. See Arteries, Diseases of ; Calcification ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Infiltrations) ; Pregnancy, Diseases op Placenta ; Pregnancy', Intra - Uterine Death of Fcetus ; Teeth {Diseases of the Pulp). Calcarine Fissure.—A cerebral fis- sure joining tiie parieto-occipital iissure, and helping to mark off tlie cuneus. See Brain, Physiology {Anatomical); Physiology, Nerv- ous System {Cerebrum). Calcification.—An almormaldeposition of lime salts (carbonate and phosphate) in the tissues, especially in those which are useless, decaying, or dead {e.[/. blood-clot, dead foetus (lithopfedion), caseous masses, senile arteries, heart-valves, j^leura, pericardium, splenic in- farcts, etc.). The cause is uncertain, but neither an excess of lime salts in the blood nor their resorption from bones has been proved; it is probable tiiat a depreciation of the nutrition of the tissues is a necessary antecedent to cal- cification. See Arteries, Diseases ; Liver, Diseases op {Calcareous Infiltr^ation) ; Tuber- culosis {Morbid Anatomy). Calcium and its Salts. See H-KMOPiiiLiA {Treatment); Pancreas, Diseases {Chronic Pancrratitis, Treatment) ; Pharma- cology ; Prescribing ; Rheumatism, Rheuma- toid Arthritis {Urine); Stools {Enteroliths); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Metals, and Calcitim oxalate). Calcium Carbonate is official in two forms :— 1. Creta Preparata, a dull-white powder, in- soluble in water. Dose—10-60 grs. Prepara- tions—(1) Hydrargyrum cum Creta, grey powder. Dose—1-5 grs. (2) Mistura Cretai. Dose—1-1 fl. oz. (3) Pulvis Cretfc Aromaticus. Dose— 10-60 grs. (4) Pulvis Cretfc Aromaticus c. Opio. Dose—10-40 grs. 2. Calcii Carbonas Prcecipitatus, a white insoluble powder. Dose— 10-60 grs. Calcium carbonate is protective and mildly astringent, and jsrepared chalk is therefore use- ful as a dusting powder and for application to moist eczema. It is also an excellent tooth powder, either alone or made into a paste with antiseptics. Internally its action is limited to tlie alimentary canal, and it is given for diarrha-a, especially in children, in the form of Mistura Cret;e or Pulv. Cretan Aromat. It is also useful in some cases of dyspepsia with hyperacidity. Calcii Chloridum is in the form of white masses, very hj'droscopic, and soluble in their own weight of water. Dose—.5-15 grs. It is given where there is a tendency to hemorrhage, on account of its power of increasing the coagula- bility of the blood. In ha3moptysis, lucma- temesis, aneur^'sm, and so on, where the blood condition is not the cause of the haemorrhage, it is useless; but in haemophilia, jaundice, and other diseases predisposing to bleeding it is of great benefit. Operations for abdominal diseases associated with jaundice should always be pi'e- ceded by a course of calcium chloride. Calcii Hydras, slaked lime, is obtained from the iiateraction of water and lime (Calcium Oxide). It is a white alkaline powder, soluble 1 in 900 of water; 1 in 60 if sugar be added. Prejmrations—(1) Liquor Calcis (lime water). Dose—1-4 fl. oz. (2) Liquor Calcis Saccharatus. Dose—20-60 m. (.3) Linimentum Calcis, consist- ing of equal parts of lime water and olive oil. Slaked lime mixed with caustic potash has been used for destroying warts. Linimentum calcis is recommended for burns. " Carron oil " con- sists of eipial parts of lime water and linseed oil. Lime water is used to prevent the curdling of milk in the stomach, and is very efficacious in the vomiting of infants when that is due to rapid curdling of the milk. It may also help in checking a mild diarrhoea. Calcii Phosphas, derived from bone ash, is a white insoluble powder. Dose—5-15 grs. Pre- paration—Syrupus Calcii Lactophosphatis. Dose —-i-1 fl. dr. It has been used in anaemia, rickets, and various forms of malnutrition, on purely theoretical grounds; but very little of it can be absorbed, and it is more than doulitful if it does any good at all. If used it should be given in large doses. Calcii Hypiophosphis is soluble in water. Dose —3-10 grs. It has been used for the same con- ditions as the phosphate, and is probably more efficacious because of its solubility. The Glycero- jihcjsphate of Calcium is very popular as a tonic, and it certainly seems to do good in some cases. Calx Stih^hurata is a dull-grey insoluble powder with an odour of sulphuretted hydrogen. Dose— ^-1 gr. It has been recommended for all kinds of suppurative processes, particularly intractable furunculosis. There is no proof that it has any effect whatever in checking or relieving such conditions. Calculus. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Calculus Vesicce) ; Children, Clinical Examination op {Urinary System); Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases op {Cholelithiasis); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Pyelitis, Stone in the Kidney) ; Lachrymal Apfaratus, Diseases op {Excretory Apjyai-atus, Calculi) ; Nose, Foreign Bodies {RJiinoliths) ; Obesity {Pathological Relations); Pancreas, Diseases of {Pancreatic Lithiasis) ; Penis, Surgical Affections of {Preputial Calculi); Pregnancy, Placenta, Diseases of {Calcareous Degeneration); Prostate Gland {Prostatic Con- cretions) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Scrotal Calculi); Urethra, Diseases of {Cal-