CHEST, INJURIES OF 91 the chc«t has caused profound shock and some- times death. It is therefore extremely important to treat all cases of concussion and contusion of the chest, even when slight, with the greatest care, avoiding prolonged examination during the period of shock. Laying the patient flat in bed with warmth judiciously applied round him, using stimulants in small quantity and often re- peated, with subcutaneous injections of strych- nine and ether where the tendency to heart failure is great, will generally be sufficient in ordinary cases of shock. As very serious injuries internally may result from blows on the chest without any external woimd or any fracture of the ribs, it is important to keep the patient at rest for eight or ten days, by which time it may be assumed that the dangerous period is past. Ordinary wounds not involving penetration into the chest, such as cuts and stabs only passing through skin and muscle, occur fre- quently, and should always be treated with the same antiseptic precautions as wounds elsewhere. When of small size, after thorough cleansing, a simple collodion dressing may be sufficient, but where extensive, stitches are required and aseptic or antiseptic dressings, according to the opinion of the surgeon in charge. In lacerated wounds and in very slight wounds with a large amount of extravasated blood in the tissues special care ought to be taken in the cleansing process, as should suppuration take place it spreads with great rapidity in the cellular tissue of the chest. In all such cases, and where wounds involve the muscles, it is important to note that the fixing of the dressings is so arranged that the arm is bandaged to the side, thus seciu-ing rest to the injured muscles. At the end of ten days the parts are generally sufficiently healed to allow the arm free of the bandages, and passive motion is employed to prevent stiffness. Wounds involving both the thorax and abdomen are comparatively common; the vault of the diaphragm reaches the level of the fifth, and it may be the fourth rib on the left side; the pleura lines practically the entire wall of the thorax ; hence a penetrating instrument is liable to traverse the pleural cavity and enter the cavity of the peritoneum. The injury to the abdominal viscera may be the more serious element; the organs most likely to be injiired are the stomach, liver, spleen, and kidney. Perforation of the diaphragm on the left side may result in one or other of the forms of diaphragmatic hernia (see " Diaphragm, Surgical Affections of"). 2. The Ribs and Sternum. — Contusions of the ribs are very common, and are caused by direct violence, producing fi-equently very per- sistent pain over the site of injury. If this pain does not yield to soothing fomentations with belladonna or laudanum for forty-eight hours, and thereafter the application of strips of ordinary sticking plaster applied for a week, a small fiy blister over the site of pain is very frequently of great service. Fractures occur generally from the fourtli to the eighth ribs, the upper and lower ribs being more protected; the floating ribs yield more to injuries, and consequently are less often broken. The most frequent seat of fracture is usually at one or other end of the rib, and the ribs most frequently broken are the fifth and sixth. A rib may be broken in two places, or may simply be cracked. The diagnosis is not always easy, a simple fracture being most easily felt by placing the hand flat on the chest and directing the patient to take a long breath. Sometimes placing two fingers over the site of pain and pressing one inwards enables crepitation to be made out. It is a good plan to examine care- fully each rib with the fingers, in order, if possible, to make out crepitation. Sometimes this is so difficult that it is not possible to be absolutely certain as to whether the rib is broken or not, but if the patient has intense pain at the end of inspiration or in turning suddenly in bed, and if his respiration is short and hurried, we are justified in concluding that he has had one or more ribs broken. Ribs are generally broken by direct violence, but a number of cases are on record where after violent sneezing or coughing one or more ribs have given way, and in the insane simply turn- ing in bed has been known to fracture several ribs due to disease of the bone. Fractures of the ribs cause serious complications, with which we will deal later on when speaking of injuries to the viscera. The treatment of a simple fracture consists in strapping the injured side and applying a broad bandage round the chest, and where this gives comfoi-t it may be con- tinued ; in certain cases, however, patients are easier without any bandage at all. The fracture is generally united in three weeks, and it is unnecessary to keep patients in bed in uncom- plicated cases for longer than a few days. The costal cartilages are sometimes broken by direct violence, or a severe crush of the chest may lead to several costal cartilages giving way, and the same treatment is employed as for fracture of the ribs. Dislocations of the ribs. — Separation of the head of a rib from its articulation with the spinal column is exceedingly rare, while disloca- tion of a costal cartilage from the sternum is very uncommon. Cases have been mentioned both of forward and backward displacement, the forward being easily reduced by pressure, the backward requiring pressure on the sternum while the patient takes a deejJ breath. Stermim.—Fractures of the sternum may be transverse or oblique, and are caused either by direct or indirect violence. They occur between the manubrium and the gladiolus, or at the ensiform cartilage. The manubrium is generally