445 DYSENTERY yellowish scum, and coutaiiiiug shreds and sloughs, and sometimes blood - clots. The sloughs are of various colour, size, and thick- ness. Some are thin and shreddy, of an ashy, olive, or dai'k colour indicating gangrene of the mucosa; others are thick and pus-infil- trated, derived from the mucous and sub-mucous coats. In comparatively rare instances tubular sloughs are discharged. I have seen sloughs of this kind several inches in length. These may project for a time from the semi-paralysed anus, causing much pain. Dutrouleau relates a case in which a patient recovered after passing nearly 14 inches of the mucous and sub-mucous coats. Another case of recovery is recorded by Fayrer in which a dark-grey tubular slough, about a foot in length, was first discharged, and then another three inches in length. It is not, however, to be concluded from such instances that recovery is anything but a very rare event when tubular sloughs consisting of the coats of the bowel, and not of croupous deposits, are discharged. The few cases of this kind that I have seen proved fatal. When the gangrene is progressing to a fatal termination the pains subside. The anus be- comes relaxed and patent, the motions pass involuntarily, the temperature often falls below the normal, the features become shrunken, hic- cup supervenes, and the patient dies in a state of collapse. Typhoid symptoms, on the other hand, may develop, and the temperature then con- tinues above the normal. Occasionally perfora- tion occiu's, and the patient succumbs to acute peritonitis. When the strength is maintained, and algid and typhoid symptoms are absent, hope of recovery is not to be abandoned. I described in 1893 a form of dysentery in which the ctecum and ascending colon are chiefly affected, which often follows or is complicated with malaria. This was the prevailing type of the disease in the Ashantee campaign of 1874. In this form the motions at first are loose, frothy, yellowish or greenish, mixed with mucus and blood, and passed with, little strain- ing. As the disease advances they become chocolate-coloured and deposit a grumous sedi- ment of pus, blood, shreds, and sloughs. What appears to be the same type of dysentery has since been described by Babes, who supposed it to be peculiar to Roumania. Marchiafava has met with similar cases in Italy, and has found it to be a mixed infection of amcebas, bacillus coli, streptococci, staphylococci, and other bac- teria. This disease runs an acute course and seems to be only met with in malarious regions. We have tried to depict the more common features of non-amoebic dysentery, but every individual case presents certain peculiarities, and considerable differences in respect to par- ticular symptoms are sometimes observed. In some cases, for example, the stools remain fecu- lent throughout the catarrhal stage, or there is an occasional motion of green or yellow fecu- lent matter. The frequency of the stools is not always in proportion to the severity of the disease. I have notes of fatal cases in which the stools have not exceeded twelve in the twenty-four hours. Sloughing occasionally takes place when the mucous stools would indicate that the disease is in the first stage. The second and third stages are occasionally not defined. Vomiting- is sometimes an urgent symptom when, after death, no disease of the liver is found. It may finally be noted, as a point of some prognostic importance, that hiccup may persist for days in comparatively mild cases. The gravity of this symptom when combined with prostration and a typhoid condition is well known. Amoehic Dysentery is gradual, as a rule, in its onset, intermittent in its progress, and pro- tracted in its course. It generally runs on for many months, and sometimes for one or two years. It begins for the most part with a painless diarrhoea, with intervals in which the motions are formed or the bowels constipated. The stools during the exacerbations are loose and yellowish, and contain mucus, and occa- sionally a little blood. This state of things may continue pretty much throughout the tedious course of the illuess, the patient losing in flesh, and becoming weak and anaemic. The real nature of the malady may only be dis- covered when symptoms of liver abscess super- vene. In more severe cases the periods of quiescence are short, the exacerbations frequent, protracted, and severe. During the exacerba- tions the stools are loose or watery, yellow, greenish, or grey in colour, and contain muciis, with streaks or clots of blood, and small gela- tinous necrotic masses derived from the in- testinal ulcers. The patient suffers from colicky pains, but there is little tenesmus. Grave symptoms may appear suddenly in a case that had previously been running a mild course, or the successive exacerbations may in- crease in severity until the disease assumes a dangerous type. In this grave form the patient suffers from severe colicky pains, and in some cases from a minor degree of tenesmus. The motions number twenty or thirty daily. At first they are scanty and consist chiefly of blood and mucus ; at a later period they become more copious and watery, are extremely offensive, and contain debris of tissue and sloughs. When these cases run on to a fatal termination the general symptoms are those of the gangrenous dysentery already described. This severe form may be primary, in which case the disease begins abruptly and runs on in a few weeks to gangrene. It will probably be found that in these acute cases the bacteria of ordinary dysentery play the principal role. Chronic Dysentery.—Chronic dysentery either begins insidiously, developing out of a simple diarrhoea or a subacute form of dysentery, or it