271 DATURA STRAMONIUM Datura Stramonium. See Stra- MONii Folia; Sthamonii Semina. Daturine.—An alkaloid obtained from Datura Stnnnoiiinni, etc., identical with hyos- cyaoiinc and isomeric with atropine. See Alka- loids ( Vegetable); S'I'Ramoxii Folia ; etc. Daugr'ish'S Bread. ^ Patent aerated bread made from Hour by an admixture witli carbonic acid water under pressure by means of special machinery. Davainea Madagrascariensis. —A rare cestode, found in Madagascar, .Mau- ritius, and Bangkok. See Parasites {(JestoJes). Davos Platz. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (Switzerland). Dax. See Balxeologv (France, litermal Water><). Day Blindness.—Inaliility to see (either at ail or without pain) in tlie daylight; hemera- lopia. Daymare.—A condition of extreme terror or distress, resemliling that seen in cases of " niglit terrors," occurring in an individual in the waking state ; allied to epilepsy. See Night Terrors (JVif/htmare); Rheumatism in Children (Nervous Affections, Da// 2'errors). Deaf mutism. Introductory t<j . . , . .271 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .272 Testing of Deaf Mutes . . . .272 Distribution of Deafmutism . . . 273 Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Treatment . 273 Occupations open to .... 274 Dumbness from Idiocy .... 275 See also Meningitis, Tuberculous and Pos- terior Basic (Prognosis). By dumbness we mean the want of power to articulate sounds. All classifications of cases of dumbness are open to olijcction. The following two great divisions require special discussion :—• 1. Deafmutism or deafdum])ness. Dumljness due to deafness. 2. Dumbness associated with idioej' or de- mentia. In addition to these, dumbness may be the result of damage to the brain, e.g. aphasia, where there is sometimes entire loss of speecli, due to a lesion in the third left-frontal convolution ; apoplexy, l)]eeding on or into tlie brain ; embol- ism of a cerebral artery ; tumour of brain, etc. Further, dumbness may be part of a more general paralysis, such as lead paralysis, or it may be due to pressure on the hypoglossal nerve. Dumbness may also be a feature of hysteria. Deafmutism.—The deaf and dumb are not otherwise physically peculiar. Placed under similar conditions they develop eipially with hearing children. At six or seven, when the deaf child enters school, he is like the hearing- child of two or three years, and it is a curious fact that his head is half an inch less in circum- ference than the hearing child of the same age. Such is the influence of hearing on the develop- ment of brain. All deaf mutes are not stone deaf. Most hear loud noises or shouting, some distinguish vowels and consonants, and I liave had them beat time accurately to music of all kinds when the sounds of the phonograph were conveyed to their ears liy the tubes belonging to the instrument, although their eyes were covered carefully to prevent their seeing the manipulations about the instrument. But all deaf mutes are so deaf that they cannot hear ordinary talk and cannot be taught with hearing children. Sj^eech is normally the result of hearing, and ^vhen there is little or no hearing the child will not speak. Further, if at four, five, or six years he lose his hearing, his speech will leave him. Deafmutism is either congenital or acquired.— In Britain about 50 per cent of the cases belong to each of these two great classes. But in some parts of America and the continent of Europe, epidemic cerebral spinal meningitis raises the proportion of acquired cases, which with refer- ence to the congenital cases bear a ratio of nearly two to one. Still, although epidemic meningitis is not common in Britain, diseases of the head, of which meningitis is the chief, are responsible for a lai-ge number ; next to meningitis as causes of acquired deafness comes scarlet fever, and after this disease measles. These three diseases account for nearly 60 per cent of our cases of acquired deafness. Now, when these diseases take away hearing, they often take it all away, and, further, they often damage the intelligence of the child in other ways, hence come these two facts :— 1. AVhen testing the hearing of the deaf and dumb it is common to find a congenitally deaf child with more hearing than a child who has lost his hearing after birth. 2. Teachers often find the congenitally deaf child bright and clever, and the acquired deaf mute slow and stupid. Congenital deafness, as we have seen, accounts for about half the number of cases of deafmut- ism in Britain. Many cases supposed to be due to disease in early life are really cases of con genital deafness. This mistake is due partly to the fact that parents are slow to admit the presence of a family defect, and partly to the fact that diseases occurring in very early life are apt to be credited with whatever defect is discovered later. Thus falls, frights, etc., are often credited with having caused deafness which has existed from birth. In every institution examples may be found of deaf-mute children who liave one or two deaf