CHOLERA, EPIDEMIC 119 the former series of years, rose in the latter period to 0-43 per 1000. (b) Milk and other artides of food arc not only media for the growth of the virus, but vehicles for its diffusion. Insects doubtless play an important j^art in spreading the disease by settling on articles of food after having been in contact with substances containing the virus. The house-fly in particular is an active agent in disseminating the germs of the disease in this way, and now that it has been shown that the vibrio is capable of living for at least fourteen days in the fly, wider limits must be assigned to its pernicious activity than was formerly conceded to it. (c) Air as a Vehicle of Infection. — Hii'sch, writing in 188-3, says, "The facts do not permit us to ignore that the poison must be taken up and suspended in the air, so as to enter the human organism with the breath." This was how the facts looked to so eminent an epidemiologist a few years ago. The facts remain the same, but the way in which they are looked at and inter- preted has so completely changed, that to many it seems now inci'edible that the virus ever enters the system by means of the breathing air. It is held that micro-organisms can only be detached from perfectly dry surfaces, so as to be carried about with dust in the atmosphere, and as the cholera vibrio is supposed to be un- able to bear tins amount of drying, infection through the atmosphere is regarded as impos- sible. The premises are doubtful, and the con- clusion contrary to well-observed facts. That cholera is not usually diffused by means of the air is evident enough, but air is neverthe- less one of the vehicles by which the virus enters the economy. It is not to be supposed that infection takes place through the lungs. The vibrio lodged in the upper air-passages may live or even multiply in the alkaline mucosities of the parts, and then be conveyed into the stomach along with food. As space forbids us entering into detail, we shall content ourselves by briefly referring to two categories of facts illustrating the occasional aerial convection of the cholei'a virus. To the first category belong particular in- stances in which the infection has been carried from the sick-room, and those in which simple proximity to a source of infection has given rise to the disease. Copland records an instance in which all the circumstances seemed to demon- strate that he carried the infection on his clothes for a distance of about a mile and a half and communicated the disease to two of his relatives (Dicfionari/, article " Epidemics "). Similar in- stances are by no means rare. Simple proximity to a source of infection may also give rise to infection. Cholera broke out on the steamship En'jland from Liverpool. There had been 1-50 cases and 48 deaths on board when she bore up for Halifax. A pilot hailed the vessel, but having learned that there was a fatal disease on board, he laid his boat close alongside, sent up his papers to the captain in a basket that had Ijeen lowered from the ship, and brought the vessel up to the quarantine station witltovt having hoarded her, and then rowed ashore with his two comrades. Two days after having come thus remotely into contact with the England he was taken ill of cholera, and three days afterwards cholera broke out in his family. Almost at the same time one of his two companions sickened and gave the disease to three of his children. The Western Hemisphere had then been three years free from cholera (Hirsch). An instance of approach to a dead body being followed by cholera is given by Clemow in the Transactions of the Epidemiological Society for 1893-94. To the second category belong the sudden explosions of a niniiber of cases of cholera on board vessels in which the disease had before been occurring in a sporadic way, after a storm dtu-ing which the ports and other means of ventilation have had to be closed. These scarcely admit of any other explanation. In- stances of this kind are given in detail by Smart. The Britannia ship of war, for example, in 1854 was infected while lying at Buljick, where cholera existed. Up to the 10th of July three deaths had occurred. She put to sea on the 12th, and the disease seemed to subside at once. On the evening of the 13th a gale necessitated the closing of the ports on the sleeping-deck. About 10 A.M. on the 14th "a great and sudden outburst of collapsed cases occurred." There is nothing in the circumstances in such instances (and they are numerous) to incriminate water or food, but everything points to the virus diflused through the air of crowded and unventilated holds causing these sudden explosions. 5. Individual susceptibility counts for much in the matter of infection. It is only a small proportion of a community that is attacked during an epidemy. Excesses of all kinds, especially alcoholic excesses, causing gastro-in- testinal catarrh, predispose to cholera. A com- mimity acquires an immunity lasting for three or four years after passing through a severe epidemic of cholera. A few circumstances I'elating to the etiology of cholera require to be mentioned :— {a) Topographical Relations.—Cholera shows a special predilection for the low-lying parts of a town. Farr laid it down as a law " that the proportion of deaths from cholera is inversely as the elevation of the ground," and this law holds good excepting in instances in which the incidence of the disease is determined by the contamination of a water-supply. As an endemic disease, cholera is limited to altitudes not exceeding 1.500 feet. As an epidemic malady it has broken out at elevations of 6000 feet (Kussouli, 1845).