DEFORMITIES 295 —The tibia wliould lie l>rou.ij;iit tiriiily inwards with the right hand, wliile the left liand is held firmly against the lower part of the fennu-. The knee-joint must be maintained at full extension while these movements are carried out. Three or four movements inward are made, and the limb is allowed gradually to come back to its original position. It is im- portant that the child should wear splints. The simplest splints are the long wooden outside splints, with a knee-cap fitted to them, and the splints secured round the pelvis. The more costly and more efficient arrangement consists of an outside steel support from the boot on both sides, and fixed around the waist by a steel pelvic band. Most cases recover in about nine months to a year under the combined effect of rest, change of air, good feeding, manipulation and splintings. But for those that do not, operative measures are called for. These arc osteotomy, osteoclasis, forcible manual rectification of the knee. Osteoclasis has been adopted of late, and appears to lie likely to ■displace osteotomy. The object of osteoclasis is to fracture the fennu- just above the knee-joint, a somewhat difficult proceeding to carry out exactly. For this end various forms of osteo- clasts or wrenches are used. Personally, the writer is not in favour of osteoclasis for genu valgum ; he nuich prefers osteotomy, which is done either by Macewen's or ^lacormac's method. For practical purposes the latter method is best, and the writer is accustomed to use a saw in place of a chisel. Ogston's operation, or Kawing off of the internal condyle, is by no means so good an operation as ^facewen's or Macormac's, and in some cases distinct stiffness of the knee has followed sawing off of the internal condyle. After the operation the limb should be put into plaster of Paris for six weeks to two months, and subsequently it may be necessary to move the knee under an an;esthetic. Qetm varum.— Definition. — Genu varum is that condition of the legs in which a line drawn from the head of the femur to the middle of the i ankle-joint falls inside the centre of the knee- joint. ; C(ui.t(itt(in.—In the majority of cases rickets j is the chief cause, and genu varum is in such instances constantly found associated with curved tibiaj. Indeed, the so-called genu varum is not limited to the knees. There is a general outward convexity of the femur and tibia, and as the knee happens to be situated very nearlj^ in the mid-lengtli <if the limb, it is the most prominent part of tiie convexity-. Genu varum is also met with after operation for genu valgum | as the result of over-correction. It also arises from occupation, and is met with subsequently to excision of the knee. Genu varum is seen of all degrees from slight to very considerable deformity. The nature of the aftection is evident at once on looking at the patient, and the treatment is conducted on the same lines as genu valgum. In cases in which the bones are soft, and the ligaments relaxed inside, splints with manipulation and massage are sufficient. When the bones are eburnated, osteotomy at the greatest point (if curvature in the limb is necessary. (Jenu Recurvatum Definition. — A deformity characterised by hyper-extension of the knee-joint. Occurrence.—It is seen associated with other conditions, namely, congenital and paralytic club-foot, rickets, deformities of one limb where an excessive strain has been put upon the sound limb ; also in Charcot's disease, and as a primary condition in congenital displacement of the knee. If the deformity is a hindrance to progression, a walking apparatus with a flexion spring at the joint should be worn, or arthrodesis must be performed. Coxa Vara (incurvation op the neck of the femur) Jjefiuition.—Coxa vara is a peculi.ir bending of some portion of the upper part of the femur in such a way that the head of the l)one sinks downwards. This bending takes place in one of two positions, either at the neck, so that the head becomes horizontal and is often twisted forwards, or the liend takes place just below the trochanter minor, so that the shaft forms here an obtuse angle. Causation and J-'atko/o(/f/.—The most usiuil cause is midoubtedly rickets, but there are othei- less well-known factors at work. Softening of the bone often occurs in adolescence, and has been ascribed to rachitis adolescentium, perhaps without sufficient reason. In boys who carry heavy weights, the neck of the femur sometimes gives. It is quite possible that some of the cases of coxa vara are due to slight infiannnatory changes with softening at the epiphysial line. The att'ection is more common in males than females, and is more often unilateral than bilateral. The neck of the fennu- gradually yields until the head of the bone is on a level with or below the top of the great trochanter. The neck is also bent in such a way as to form a curve with the convexity backwards. It is in this class of case that the difficult}' in complete flexion of the thigh is met with. In a second A'ariety of case, namely, bending outwards of the shaft just below the trochanter, this flexion difficulty is not encountered. Symptoms.—In adolescence, without apparent cause, or following slight injury, the patient begins to limp and to complain of fatigue and pain about the attected joint on exertion. Shortening of the limb is soon apparent, and is accompanied by elevation of the trochanter above Nelaton's line. The limb is sometimes