255 CRY Gaseg. 1. At a constant temperature tlie pres- sure is proportionate to the quantity of gas in a imit of volume. SohUions. 1. At a constant temperature the osmotic pressure is proportion- ate to the quantity of matter dissolved in a unit of volume, i.e. to the concentration. Gases. 2. At a constant volume the pressure is jjroportioiiate to the aljsolute temperature, irrespective of the nature of tlie gas. 3. At the same tem- perature and pressure, similar volumes of different gases contain the same numl)er of molecules. When a gram-mole- cule of any gas occupies the space of 22-35 litres, it exerts at 0° C. a pressure of 1 atnio- sjihere. 4. The pressure of a mixture of gases equals the sum of the pressures of all. Solutions. 2. At a constant con- centration tlie osmotic pressure is jjrojxjrtion- ate to the al)solute temperature, irrespect- ive of the nature of the dissolved substance. 3. At the same tem- perature and osmotic 2)ressnre solutions of different sultstances contain the same niunl)er of dissolved molecules in a unit of volume. Any solution which contains one gram- molecule dissolved in 22-13 litres exerts at 0^ C. the pressure of one atmosphere. 4. The osmotic pres- sure of a solution of different substances is the sum of the osmotic pressures of all. " hydrocephalic cry" is heard typically in tuberculous meningitis and other cerebral diseases of cliildren; the cries in a hysterical convulsion come on later than in an epileptic one (see Hysteria, Ili/sterind Convulsions). C dysesthesia.. — A m()rl)id degree of sensibility to cold (Ur. Kpvo'i, cold); the anto- nym is crf/atuesthesia, a moi'bid degree of insensibility to cold. CrymOSeS. — Diseases ascribed to the action of cokl ((Jr. A'/Hyxik, chill). Crymotherapy.—The use of cold as a remedial or tlierapeutic agent. CryoSCOpy. AVe Urine, Pathological Changes in (General Projxrties, Free-.ing-point). tSee also Dechlorination ; Ionic Action ; Os- mosis ; etc.—By cryoscopy (Gr. Kpvo<s, frost, and <TK07retv, to examine) is meant the determination of the freezing-point of a fluid. The method has chiefly been applied (in medicine) to the blood and urine, but any solution may be examined by this means, which affords a measure of the osmotic pressure. Theoretical.—According to Van't Hoff''s theory of solutions, substances in solution behave like gases, the dissolved mole- cules exerting pressure on the walls of the containing vessel in their efforts to diffuse through as large a space as possible. This osmotic pressure, wliich can be measured directly by a manometer, depends (1) on the nature of the dissolved substance, (2) on the temperature, and (3) on the concentration. At the same temperature, the osmotic pressure of solutions of non-electrolytes is proportionate to the number of contained molecules, equi-molecular solutions exerting the same osmotic pressure; but in the case of electrolytes, such as salts, bases, and acids, which are partly dissociated into ions, the osmotic pressure is jjroportionate tothenumberofmolecules + ions in solution. Thus ii '5 per cent solution of sugar (non-electrolyte) exerts only half the osmotic pressure of a 1 per cent solution, but a -5 per cent solution of sodium chloride (electrolyte) exerts more than half the pressure of a 1 per cent solution, because in the latter case relatively more dissociation occurs in the weaker solution, and there are therefore relatively more ions than in the stronger. The similarity of the laws governing gases and solu- tions is shown in the following (Koranyi):— The freezing-point of a solution is lowered, as compared with that of distilled water, j^ro- portionately to the number of molecules (or molecules -f- ions) it contains ; hence from it the osmotic pressure can be estimated. Now a gram-molecule dissolved in 22-13 litres has an osmotic pressure of 1 atmosphere, hence a gram- molecule in 100 cc. will have a pressui'e of 221'3 atmosplieres, and it is found that this lowers the freezing-point by 18'5° C.—in other words, a lowering of the freezing-point of the solution by 1° is equal to just about 12 atmo- spheres of osmotic j^ressure. For practical purposes, since in medicine we are dealing with fluids containing dissociable molecules, and are concerned only with relative variations, we do not expi'ess the osmotic pressure in terms of dissolved inolecules or in atmospheres, but take the freezing - point as a standard — the lower it is the greater the concentration of molecides or molecules -I- ions. Technique.—Beckmann's cryoscope, or one of its modifications, is generally employed. It consists of a tube (a) which contains the fluid to be examined, and is closed by a doubly perforated cork through which a metal stirrer (b) and a thermometer (c) reading to pass. The tube (a) has a lateral opening ((/) and is enclosed in a second tube (e), the intervening- air space acting as a non-conductor and prevent- ing too rapid cooling. The whole is immersed in a larger vessel (f) containing freezing mixture, also provided with a stirring rod (//) and a cover (h). The thermometer employed has a range