368 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM quantity of 10-20 cc. normally fouud during hunger has been secreted as the result partly of stimulation due to the swallowing of saliva, partly of the mechanical stimulation arising from the introduction of the gastric sound. The degree of acidity varies considerably even in the same individual; but '2 per cent may be regarded as a normal average. In the dog, from which gastric juice can be obtained in considerable quantities, and free from the constituents of the saliva, and in which its composition has been much more care- fully studied than in man, it is a colourless, odourless, transparent, strongly acid (containing about '5 per cent hydrochloric acid), and actively peptic fluid of an average specific gravity of 1 "004:7. It may be kept an indefinite time without showing signs of putrefactive decom- position. It is slightly dextro-rotatory, and gives the usual proteid reactions. On being- cooled to 0° C. a fine precipitate of great peptic activity forms. The chief organic constituents are the enzymes, pepsin, rennin, and possibly iiivertin, along with traces of mucin and proteid convertible into albumose and peptone on stand- ing. The inorganic constituents are chlorides of sodium, potassium, calcium, as well as traces of magnesium and iron. Phosphates are also present in very small quantity. The free acid of pure gastric juice is hydro- chloric, the most important proof of this being that the quantity of chlorine present is greater than the chemical equivalent of the total inor- ganic bases. Conditions influencing tlie Secretion Sources and Mode of Formation of the Constituents of the Gastric Juice.—The secretion is normally intermittent. It may be induced (1) by psychical stimuli, e.g. the sight, or even the thought of food; (2) reflexly by stimulation of the nerves of taste, even where no food is allowed to enter the stomach, as in the pseudo-feeding of dogs after the establishment of a Pawlow fistula ; and, lastly, by the entrance of food or other substances into the stomach. Simple mechanical stimulation of the gastric mucosa produces only a slight local secretion. It is unlikely, therefore, that the normal secre- tion is at all largely dependent on mechanical irritation. Digestible solid substances mixed with saliva on their entrance into the stomach induce an immediate slight local secretion due to mechanical irritation. After about fifteen minutes there follows a second secretion of gastric juice in much larger quantity from the whole surface of the gastric mucosa. The latter secretion is believed to follow as a I'esult of the absorption of the small quantities of albumose and peptone produced by the action of the gastric juice secreted in consequence of the mechanical stimulation. In the earlier stages of digestion the acid of the gastric juice is neutralised by the alkali of the food and of the saliva. For a variable period (three-quarters of an hour according to van d. Velden) free hydrochloric acid cannot be detected, the hydrochloric acid entering into loose combination with the albumoses, peptones, and albumins (to form acid albumin in the latter case) as quickly as it is secreted. During this period—the amylolytic stage of gastric digestion —the ptyalin of the saliva continues to exert its action upon the carbohydrate material of the food. As digestion proceeds the acidity of the juice gradually increases. The hydrochloric acid and pepsin of the gastric juice are produced by different cells in the gastric glands. In the cardiac region of the stomach two varieties of cells are found, the centrally placed, chief or adelomorphous cells, and the parietal, delomorphous or oxyntic cells. In the pyloric region one kind of cell alone is present, and that resembles the central cells of the cardiac region very much more closely than the parietal ones. The pyloric secretion, when obtained free from the cardiac one, is found to be alkaline, and when acidified with hydro- chloric acid it possesses peptonising power. The amount of pepsin which it contains is, however, much smaller than that of the cardiac region. The secretion of the cardiac region, on the other hand, contains both pepsin and hydro- chloric acid. These, along with other facts, indicate the parietal cells to be the producers of the hydrochloric acid, and the central cells to be the originators of the pepsin. The site of the formation of the rennin ferment or its pre- cursor is uncertain. With regard to the histological appearances of the gland cells only a few words are necessary. The central cells in the resting condition are filled with distinct granules, which, during digestion, decrease in number. Typically, the granules are situated chiefly in the inner or luminal parts of the cells, the outer zone of the cells showing a complete absence of granules. In other rarer cases the granules are found scattered throughout the whole body of the cell, and the decrease is a general one. In the ovoid parietal cells the granules are much smaller, and the changes not so distinct. The granules in the central cells consist not only of fully formed pepsin, but of a precursor or zymogen, which, under the influence of dilute acids, and also during active secretion by the cell, is converted into pepsin. To give a full proof of this statement would take up too much space. The salient points of diiference between the zymogen (pepsinogen) and the enzyme, pepsin, are that the former is insoluble in glycerine, not easily destroyed by alkaline solu- tions, and possesses no digestive activity until converted into pepsin by dilute acids. The latter, on the other hand, is soluble in glycerine, very easily destroyed by dilute alkalies, and is an active digestive enzyme.