22 BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS mucus and bubbles of air. A transverse section shows that the casts are evidently deposited in successive layers, for they are always found to consist of concentric laminfe of a fibrillated or hyaline basis, with numerous epithelial cells, leucocytes, oil-globules, granular debi'is, occa- sional Curschmann's spirals, and Charcot Ley- den's crystals in its meshes; blood-cells may be found on the surface. The disease is commonly termed fibrinous bronchitis, under the impression that the casts are composed of fibrin ; but it has been shown by Grandy that they are composed of mucus, and not of fibrin, and are analogous to the casts of mucus colitis. Wilson Fox states that they are soluble in alkalies and in lime- water. Treatment.—Little can be said in favour of any special drug or method of treatment in these cases, but during the attack the patient should be placed under the general conditions and ordinary treatment of acute lironchitis. Inhalations of ammonia, of finely sprayed lime- water, of solutions of an alkaline carbonate, and the internal administration of iodide of potassiinn, creasote, turpentine, are said to iiave been em- ployed with success. Emetics may favour the expulsion of the casts, and Osier suggests pilocarpine might be useful, as it increases the bronchial secretion. In the intervals between the attacks general hygienic measures and the use of tonics may perhaps prevent the attacks being so trying to the patient; but Walshe believes that no drugs, nor the best of health, nor the most favourable climates have any beneficial influence in modify- ing or preventing the attacks. The varying phases of chronic bronchitis render it difficult to lay down any definite course of treatment, and the remedies and method of treatment of chronic bronchitis are so very numerous that it is only possible to mention a few, while endeavouring to suggest the lines of treatment that may be most suitable for the great variety of cases in which chronic bronchitis is the main feature. The most essential point is to discover, and, as far as practicable, remove, the cause of the bronchitis in any particular case. Thus if the aflfection is due to the inhala- tion of irritating particles of dust in his work, it may be necessary for the patient to change his occupation; if it is due to damp and un- healthy surroundings, he must be placed in a more suitable environment; if to Bright's dis- ease, renal inadequacy, valvular heart-affection, syphilis, or gout, treatment appropriate to these diseases is essential for relief. In the milder and more chronic cases reliance should be placed mainly on general hygienic ti'eatment, avoiding when practicable the use of drugs, unless specially indicated or required for the purpose of overcoming any complication or constitutional taint. But acute or subacute exacerbations generally call for more active treatment on lines similar to that in acute bronchitis. We may briefly consider the methods of treat- ment luider four headings : (1) General and climatic ; (2) medicinal; (3) local applications ; (4) counter-irritation, massage, baths, etc. (1) General and Climatic.—The need for warm clothing, with flannel garments next the skin suited to the season, seemingly so obvious, is not always observed, and may have to be im- pressed on the patient, while the greatest care should be taken to avoid exposure to cold winds and rapid changes of temperature. Abundance of fresh air, either out of doors, or, if that is impossible, in warmed and well-ventilated rooms, is of the first imijortance. Too often sufferei's from bronchitis increase their susceptibility, and even directly maintain their complaint, by shutting themselves up in close, stuffy rooms. Apart from the various affections which may be the essential cause of the complaint, any im- pairment of the general health tends to prevent recovery, thus any coexisting affection demands attention ; especially does this apply to dyspepsia and constipation. Nothing more generally proves beneficial than change of climate. Many cases do well by the sea-side. In England the south coast furnishes many suitable places in the winter, such as Torquay, Falmouth, Bournemouth, Hastings, the Scilly Isles, Isle of Wight; while the French Riviera, Biarritz, Madeira, or the northern African shore may prove more suitable to those who are able to go farther afield. But it is well to remember that a very large number of persons are always prone to derangement of the liver and stomach at the sea-side, and that this is one of the conditions which it is very necessary to avoid in bronchitis. For these a warm, equable climate such as that of Malvern, Clifton, or dry hill- air, or the Lake of Geneva, Bordighera, or Egypt may be better suited. Various Con- tinental spas, such as Ems, Soden, Mont Dore, Carlsbad, Spa, etc., are beneficial, especially in gouty cases. The diet should be light and nutritious, and the state of the stomach and liver, and any tendency to constipation, should receive careful attention. (2) Medicinal.—In the acute exacerbations and in the very chronic cases the secretions tend to be scanty and the expectoration very tenacious. In these conditions, for increasing the expectora- tion and making it more fluid, iodide of potassium, carbonate of ammonia, apomorphia, ipecacuanha, cocillana, and citrate of potash are useful, e.g. R Ext. cocillanas fl. n\^xx. ; apomorph. hydi'ochl. gr. Jg^; syr. prim. virg. 3j.; aq. dest. ad gss. Tert. quae. hor. Or, Ammon. carb. grs. iv. ; tinct. scyllte 5j.; aq. chlorof. ad §ss. Quatt. quEe. hora. If there is a tendency to bronchial spasm, iodide of potash, caff'ein, lobelia, myrtus chekan.