BRONCHI, DISEASES OF 10 '—BRONCHIAL GLANDS When the oesophagus is involved there may be hjEmatemesis, and the passage of blood in the stools; or if the air-passages are involved at the same time, food may be expectorated. The breath in a large number of cases of ulceration into the air-passages has a very offensive smell, tliough foetor of the breath does not necessarily indicate ulceration into the a'sophagus. Dyspnoea is sometimes well marked, the patient being unable to lie down in bed, and dreading any movement or interference such as for feeding or changing. The dyspnoea in some cases is more of the nature of an expiratory than an inspiratory dyspnaja. When the recuiTcnt laryngeal nerve is in- volved by a new growth in the bronchial glands the vocal cords may be paralysed {vide " Medi- astinum "). Dysphagia may be associated eitlier with pressure of enlarged glands on the oesophagus, or with actual ulceration of a caseous gland through the oesophageal wall. It is not a very common symptom. Pain when present is generally referred to the region of the manubriuni, or less commonly to the epigastrium. When the oesophagus is involved there may be some pain in swallowing, although extensive ulceration of that tube may be present without giving rise to any symptoms. Tlie physical signs produced l)y enlarged bronchial glands are often masked by the signs of other concurrent disease in the chest. Inspection.—The face is frequently cyanosed, especially after an attack of coughing, and there is often niarked dyspnoea with recession of the lower part of the thorax : this recession is, as a rule, bilateral in small children, but in older children in whom tlie thoracic parietes are firmer there may be distinct unilateral recession. The lower part of the sternum is often retracted during inspiration. The veins over the front of the chest are frequently enlarged. A moderate amount of oedema of the face may be present. Palpiation, in addition to confirming the results of inspection, may reveal the presence of enlarged glands in the neck or axillge. The presence of surgical emphysema may also be verified. Vocal fremitus, or in small children the ci'y fremitus, may be diminished over the area supplied by a compressed bronchus, or increased over the manubrium. Percussion.—Impairment of resonance of the percussion note may be present over the manubrium and inner end of the first or second intercostal spaces anteriorly, and simi- larly in the suprascapular fossse and inter- scaprdar region posteriorly. The perciission of the back is much less reliable in small children than in adults. Special care should be taken in examining small children to see that the child sits up or is placed quite straight, and not allowed to lie over to one side, as it is so apt to do when being held by the mother or nurse. Auscultation.—The breath sounds over the lungs may be simply weak, while over the didl area there is often marked tubidar or Ijronchial breathing, and in some cases there may be almost amphoric breathing. Vocal resonance over the dull area is increased, and may have an oegophonic character. When catarrh of the air-passages exists there are the usual signs of this condition, and should these be unilateral in distribution, suspicion should be directed to the bronchial glands. The usual sequence of aus- cultatory signs in the lungs is—weak breathing- followed by bronchial breathing, to wdiich fine crackling rales, and eventually sonorous and bubbling sounds, are added. Where the lung is involved either in tuber- culous processes or by the formation of breaking- down areas, these signs become masked by those of pidmonary tuberculosis, or empj'ema, or the signs of bi'onchiectasis. Eustace Smith has pointed o^it tliat a purring sound can be produced in the vessels of the neck during respiration by making the child look upwards, and so extend the neck and compress the vessels by the retro-manubrial glands. The stethoscope must be applied below the supi'a- sternal notch. If signs of tuberculous consolidation are present and are limited to the middle lobe, this would suggest the bronchial glands as the fo7is et origo mali. Diagnosis.—It must be borne in mind that the condition frequently exists without giving rise to any symptoms ; and further, that the physical signs are often equivocal. Eveiy con- dition liable to produce paroxysmal cough and dyspnoea must be differentiated. Of these the more important are whooping-cough, enlarged tonsils, pulmonary tuberculosis, empyema, and bronchiectasis. In other cases asthma, a foreign Ijody in the air-passages, adherent pleura, pressure on the air - passages by aneurysms, abscess, a new growth, prevertebral abscess in the upper dorsal region, laryngeal diphtheria, and laryngismus stridulus must be excluded. Carefid considera- tion of the history and detailed examination of the pharynx, larjmx, and chest will usually suffice to differentiate these conditions. Prognosis.—When the enlargement is due to malignant disease this is necessarily hopeless, but when d\ie to tuberculous disease it is not of necessity so grave, and yet it must be borne in mind that tuberculous meningitis not infre- quently is met with in cases in which the bronchial glands are the only recognisable sites of previous tuberculous infection. Recovery is possible even when the air - passages or the oesophagus are perforated.