232 CORNEA part of the globe, leaviiig the two ends attached, bringing the bridge down to the seat of the ulcer, and tethering it by one or two sutures applied to the conjunctiva at the edge of the cornea; it may also be done by dissecting up the conjunctiva all roinid the globe, and bring- ing it together by continuous suture at its free edge, thus covering the whole cornea. The conjunctiva seems to act in two ways, partly by the support which it gives to the cornea, and partly by becoming adherent to the seat of the ulcer. The fact of the cornea being covered by conjunctiva does not seem to give trouble; after the sutures come away the con- junctiva falls back again to its proper place. Oxygen gas has been recommended as a treat- ment for indolent ulcers of the cornea ; the application is made by means of a closely fitting cap, the oxygen being passed over the eye in a constant stream. Treatment of the Results of Corneal Ulceration. —Opacities.—Little can be done for the treat- ment of opacities of the cornea. The use of stimulants, like the yellow oxide of mercury ointment, 4 gr. to the ounce of vaseline, or of wine of opium, combined with massage, should be continued for a long time. Opacities due to a deposit of lead on the cornea may be removed by scraping. In some cases undoubted improve- ment has followed the application of a galvanic current directly to the cornea, but it is un- reliable. Tattooing is sometimes done, partly for cosmetic reasons and partly for the improA'e- ment of vision. When the nebula partly covers the pupil, or where an artificial pupil has been made opposite clear cornea, the dispersion of the light passing through the nebula causes much disturbance of vision through the clear part of the cornea. Rendering the nebula dark by tat- tooing it, may residt in great improvement of vision. The surface of the nebula is pricked all over by a bundle of needles, and Indian ink rubbed up into a paste is applied to the surface, or a Wecker's grooved needle, containing Indian ink in the groove, is passed into the cornea parallel to its surface, and the ink deposited in the substance of the cornea : the operation has to be repeated several times. Too much should not be done at one sitting ; eyes in which the cicatrised cornea is thin, or has the iris adherent to it, should not be touched. The pig- mentation of the cornea so obtained is not permanent. Transplantation of the cornea is not yet within the domain of practical surgery, for though the operation has been done with success as regards the life of the transplanted cornea, its trans- parency has never been maintained. Types of Corneal Ulceration.—The Simple Ulcer.—The simple ulcer may arise from an injury to the epithelium, or from the intro- duction of a foreign body into the eye. It appears as a somewhat raised grey spot, which becomes a shallow crater with some infiltration of its base; there is circumcorneal congestion, pain, and intolerance of light. Treatment.—Hot fomentations, compress, and atropine (see general remarks on Treatment). Infective Ulcer.—The ulcer heals rapidly as a rule, but it may occasionally penetrate deeply, and even perforate the anterior chamber. In this case, instead of clearing, the base and margins of the ulcer become yellow with in- filtration, the surrounding cornea becomes hazy, iritis is set up, and a hypopyon forms. This type of infective ulcer is most commonly seen during the course of a purulent conjunc- tivitis, but it may occur as the result of an infection of the corneal tissue apart from general conjiuictivitis. Its tendency is to penetrate deeply into the cornea, but not to spread widely; in this respect it differs from the serpiginous ulcer. Treatment.—On the same lines as that of the simple ulcer, but more active measures, such as carefully applied caustics, or the cautery, may be necessary. If purulent conjunctivitis be present its active treatment should be pur- sued. Catarrhal Ulcer.—During an attack of con- junctival catarrh we sometimes meet with one or two rounded or crescentic ulcers near the margin of the cornea. They usually heal readily. During the later stages of trachoma, when pannus of the cornea has been formed and the lid has cicatrised, it is not uncommon to see small sharply-cut ulcers with a clear base at the edge of, or on the pannus itself; they generally come with a slight recurrence of irritation in the lids. In addition to the local treat- ment of atropine the lids themselves reqtiire attention. Serpiginous Ulcers.—There are several kinds of ulcer whose tendency is to spread into the healthy parts in their neighbourhood; in their whole course the character of these ulcers is distinct, the only common featiu-e is their tendency to spread. The main forms are—the acute serpiginous ulcer, the marginal ditch ulcer, the rodent ulcer, and the dendritic ulcer. Some of these are desci'ibed now, the others will be found in their place later. The Acute Serpnginous Jjlcer; Ulcus Serpens; Hypopyon Keratitis.—This begins as a dirty grey spot showing a loss of surface, with an in- filtrated base and edges; the ])ase is uneven, and is covered with broken-down epithelial and corneal cells. It commonly follows a slight injury, and occui's especially in those who have a diseased lachrymal sac. The characteristic feature of this form of idcer is its advancing edge, which generally appears as a yellow crescentic area situated at one edge of the ulcer. This crescentic area tends gradually to spread over the cornea supei-ficially in one direction, while the part of the ulcer first formed