435 DUPUYTREN'S CONTRACTION Dupuytren's Contraction. See Deformities {Hand and Fingers, Congenital Contraction, Diagnosis); Fascia {Contraction of the Palmar Fascia); Gout {Morhid Anatomy, Urate of Soda in Terulon Sheaths). Dupuytren's Fracture. /Rankle Joint, Region op, Injuries [Fractures in the Vicinity of). Dura Mater. — The outer membrane, strong and fibrous {dura), which covers the brain and spinal cord (cerebral and spinal dura). See Insanity, Pathology of {Pathological Anatomy, Dura Mater) ; Meninges of the (Jerebrum {Anatomy, Vascular Disturbances, Inflammations, Tumours, etc.). Durande's SVlsxture.—A mixture of ether and turpentime given in the hope of dissolving gall-stones. Duret'S Balsam.—An antiseptic oint- ment {l)aume Duret), said to contain coal-tar, oil of cade, resorcin, menthol, guaiacol, camphor, sulphur, borax, glycerine, acetone, castor oil, and wood oil; it is, tlierefoi'e, a very complex preparation, containing nine antiseptics, some of which are also mild cutaneous stimulants {vide Lancet, June 16, 1906).j DurOZiez'S Sig'n.—Thedouble murmur which can sometimes bo produced by pressure on one of the large arteries {e.g. the carotid) in cases of aortic incompetence. Dust Diseases.—Diseases "due to the inhalation oF particles of dust {pneimiono- konioses), such as coal dust {anthracosis), metallic (steel) dust {siderosis), and stone dust {chalicosis); tuberculosis and typhoid fever may be spread also by infected dust particles. See Lungs, Pnbumonokoniosis ; Tuberculosis {Portals of Invasion and Channels of Spread); Typhoid Fever {Etiology). Dutton's Disease.—Human trypano- somiasis. >S't'(; Parasites {Proto:oa). Dwarfism. See also Ethnology {Dwarf Paces); Atrophy ; Hypertrophy ; Achondro- plasia; Labour, Vrolo^ged {Pelvic Defonnities); Microsomia; etc.—The word "dwarf," a very old term, has in its progress down the centuries lost much of its significance and of the sharpness of definition which it may once have had. It now signifies simply a diminutive adult human being, and includes cases of stunted stature due to postnatal diseases of the spine and lower limbs (rickets, etc.), as well as to antenatal maladies (achondroplasia) and to teratological states. " True dwarfism" is an expression which has been introduced in order to define more exactly the conditions which alone ought to be em- braced under the name : a true dwarf is a person of luiusually small stature, not tlie result of any particular disease or deformity, but merely from growth having fallen much short of the usual standard. In this restricted sense the word dwarfism is practically synonymous with micro- somia ; and in this article it is true dwarfism or microsomia that is being considered. True dwarfism or microsomia—a teratological sraallness of all the parts—may be antenatal or postnatal in origin. There is, for instance, embryonic microsomia. Sometimes when we are engaged in examining an abortion sac we find to our surprise that it contains an embryo of a size much smaller than the size of the sac had led us to expect. Yet this embryo may show a degree of development in accordance, not with its size, but with that of the sac containing it and with the estimated age of the pregnancy. It may, therefore, be regarded as a "dwarf embryo," or a case of " embryonic microsomia " ; although it has, perhaps, been customary to look upon it as an example of early hydramnios or embryonic hydramnios. During foetal life, also, dwarfism may show itself (fcetal microsomia). When, for instance, a foetus is born at the full term, having a weight of less than 3 lbs. and a length of less than 12 inches, but possessing the other signs of maturity (finger-nails projecting, absence of lanugo, etc.), it is to be regarded as a case of fostal microsomia or foetal dwarfism. In Sir Everard Home's case, a female child weighing 1 lb. and measuring 7 inches was born at the full term (the mother had had a fright when three months pregnant); the child, known as the "Sicilian dwarf," died at the age of nine years, when she was nearly 20 inches in height, and had the ossification, dentition, and mental powers of a child of two rather than of nine years. There was, therefore, an arrest of both growth and postnatal development here, and to this combination it has been proposed by Hastings Gilford to give the name of " ateleiosis." Other instances of foetal microsomia were those of Nicholas Ferry or " Bebe " (weight at birth less than 1 lb., length 8 inches), " Princess Paulina " (12 inches in length when born), the "Marquis Wolga" (9 inches in length at birth and less than 2 lbs. in weight), etc. Dwarfism, however, is by no means constantly present at birth : the retardation of growth may begin at one, two, three, or four years of age; indeed it may not commence until early adoles- cence. Jeffery Hudson, for instance, was not a congenital dwarf, and his parents were of average height; yet at the age of nine years he was only 18 inches high. He had some chequered experiences in an adventurous life : he was presented " in a pie " to King Charles I.; he fought a successful duel, for, as a writer says describing him, " although a dwarf, Jeffery was no dastard" ; and he was sold as a slave in Barbary. This last and most trying adventure had a special interest, for it caused, or at least