298 DELIRIOUS MANIA six days; and in both cases cerebral congestion and osdema were found. Diagnosis.— The clinical history of Bell's mania differs considerably from that of ordinary acute mania or excited melancholia, though some difficulty may be experienced in diagnosis during the period of excitement. The precipitate on- set, the extraordinary intensity of the symptoms, the rapid changes in the type of the delusions and hallucinations, and the fever are points of importance. Greater difficulty in diagnosis is sometimes presented by other febrile diseases associated with delirium. The delirious stage of Bell's mania is sometimes of very brief duration, and the patient quickly passes into the condition of prostration, to which the term " typhoid " has been applied. In this condition the case is readily mistaken for one of typhoid fever, but a consideration of the history, ex- amination of the patient, and the use of Widal's test should lead to a correct diagnosis. Acute pneumonia with delirium, and uraemia with maniacal sjnnptoms, may give rise to difficulty in diagnosis. The disease can hardly be mis- taken for delirium tremens. A febrile delirium occasionally occurs in association with malarial poisoning. Treatment.—The treatment of this disease cannot readily be carried out in a private house, as the patient during the early stage is excessively noisy and often violent. The patient is best kept by himself in a large, cool, darkened room, and nursed by experienced attendants. He should be kept in bed, his movements being limited by the use of a restraining sheet. Forced feeding with con- centrated fluid nourishment at short intervals is essential. iSome writers recommend the administration of a calomel purge at the outset. None of the hypnotic drugs seem to give very satisfactory results. Opium is considered dan- gerous. Hyoscine is sometimes useful in limit- ing the excessive muscular activity, but must be used with great caution. Several writers strongly recommend the use of ergotin. Alcohol should not be used in the earlier stages, but may prove of great value when the pulse is failing. In cases where recovery is taking place, careful nursing for a prolonged period is necessary, and the patient must be guarded very carefully from all excitement and fatigue, such as is entailed by too early visits from friends. After recovery the patient should, if possible, go to live quietly in the country or at the sea-side, and refrain entirely from mental work for at least a year. Delirium. See also Alcohol {Acute Alcoholic Intoxication); Alcoholic Insanity {Delirium Tremens); Alcoholism {Delirium Tremens); Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Symptoms); Brain, Affections op Blood- Vessels {Ancemia, HypercBviia, (Edema); Brain, Inflammations {Acute Encephalitis); Chorea {Choreic Insanity, Acute Delirium); Deliramentum ; Delirious Mania ; Delirium Tremens; Fractures {Constitutional Symjjtoms, Delirium); Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Symptomatology, Cerebral Symptoms); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Pulse in Muscle Failure, Delirium Cordis) ; Hysteria {Convtdsions, Period of Delirium); Insanity, Pathology op; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Obstructed Labour); Measles {Syjnptoms, Delirium); Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic {Symptoms); Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits {Paraldehyde); Pneumonia, Clinical {Symptoms, Treatment); Puerperium, Patho- logy {Insanities, Clinical Varieties); Senile Insanity {Delirium of Collapse); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning); Typhoid Fever {Synqjtoms, Nervous System); Typhus Fever {Period of Advance, Symptoms). Delirium Grandiosum. — Mono- mania of Grandeur; General Paralysis. Delirium Mussitans. — Muttering or quiet delirium. Delirium Tremens. See also De- lirium and Cross References.—Delirium tremens {mania a potu) is essentially an insanity of short duration, occurring in the course of chronic alcoholism, and due not to the direct action of alcohol on the nervous system, but to nutritive changes brought about by usually long-continued alcoholic abuse. It is characterised not only by temporary mental alienation, but by disturbances at a lower level indicated by motor and sensory symptoms. Symptoms.—The onset of the attack is fre- quently determined by a temporary excess, or may be precipitated by the occurrence of an accident or the supervention of some acute illness such as pneumonia. The patient will almost always be found to be a confirmed tippler, although it not infrequently happens that he has seldom or never been actually drunk. At the outset of the attack the patient often complains of sleeplessness at night. He suffers from great distaste for food, and often for a few days for drink also. His movements are noticed to be markedly tremulous. In conversation he is apt to be somewhat incoherent, and his atten- tion is difficult to fix. The acuter symptoms frequently come on at night. He becomes ex- tremely restless, and is the subject of a busy delirium in which he wanders about the room moving the chairs or arranging the bedclothes, talking constantly the while. He is very sus- picious, and frequently looks behind the curtains or under the bed to see if anything likely to hurt him is concealed there. Visual hallucina- tions appear, usually of a terrifying nature,