96 CHEST-WALL, AFFECTIONS OF There may be merely a feeling of discomfort and uneasiness in the precordial region, or the pain may be a marked symptom. The pain is usually in the precordial region, but may be localised in the epigastrium. In addition to pain there is hyperaesthesia {see "Pericarditis"). In the aflfections of the heart, pain is an extremely variable quantity. It may be an aching, the protest of an overworked muscle, the intense discomfort and distress resulting from dyspnoea, or the fully developed attack of angina pectoris. The difference is one of degree, not of kind. The special diagnostic features will be described in the article "Heart." Pain of pleural origin has also to be differ- entiated. Here the manner of onset, site, and character of the pain, with the physical signs, readily suffice to distinguish it. Apart from the pain of acute pleurisy, there may be pain of a dull aching character, and persisting for a lengthened period, due to pleural thickening and adhesions, the result of previous inflammation. Pain from aneurysm of the aorta may result from pressure, the tumour implicating a sensory nerve. Much of the pain, however, may be of the nature of a referred sensation. The pain from direct pressure will vary with the position of the aneurysmal tumour and the structures implicated. In aortitis pain may be present in the first, second, and third right intercostal spaces. In mediastinal growths pain may be severe, and is due as in aneurysm to pressure upon sensory nerves. Pain in affections of the lung, such as pneu- monia, phthisis, etc., results, as a rule, from implication of the pleura; a referred pain may, however, be noticed along the course of the intercostal nerves. Pain in inflammatory affec- tions of the chest-wall, mamma, etc., belongs to the domain of surgery. The diagnosis of intrathoracic jxiin depends upon the diagnosis of the condition from which it results; and to this end the condition of pleura, cardiac muscle, aorta, and pericardium must be each in turn carefully investigated (see " Pericarditis "). Disorders of the Circulation in the Chest-Wall Considerable distension of the veins may be noticed in cases where tricuspid regurgitation is present. In obstruction to the portal cir- culation as in cirrhosis of the liver, there is a marked distension of the superficial veins in the lower thoracic region along with distension of the superficial abdominal veins; the anasto- motic branches of the inferior mammary and epigastric veins relieving the portal system in part, become then enlarged and visible. An enormous enlargement of the veins of the thoracic wall forming an intricate network of distended vessels may be visible when there is obstruction to the return of blood from the chest-wall to the heart. This interference with the circulation may result from the pressure of a tumour (new growth or enlarged glands) on one or all of the great venous trunks or from thrombosis. If the superior vena cava be im- plicated, the venous distension will be bilateral; if one of the innominate subclavian or axillary trunks, the distension will be unilateral. It must not be forgotten, however, that in nursing women there is usually a considerable dilatation of the superficial thoracic veins during the period of lactation; the same may be seen during pregnancy and menstruation. CEdema of the Chest-Wall.—Oedema of the chest-wall may be present as part of a general oedema in heart and kidney disorders. There is then considerable oedema of legs, thighs, back, and passing up the posterior aspect of the chest- wall, usually symmetrically, but possibly more marked on one or other side, if the patient has been lying in a lateral position. CEdema local- ised to the chest-wall, arm, and head may be present when there is obstruction to the venous return, as in mediastinal tumour. A localised oedema of some diagnostic significance may occur in the chest-wall in purulent exudation into the pleura. Thus the writer has seen a localised oedema over the tenth and eleventh ribs over an encysted empyema, the oedema being of considerable diagnostic value in the absence of the usual signs of effusion into the pleura. Angio-neurotic oedema is rare in the chest, but may occur. CEdema of the chest is not to be mistaken for myxoedematous swelling of the skin and subcutaneous tissues with their characteristic dry, harsh, and pale appearance, swollen, thickened, and brawny, and not pitting on pressure. Emphysema of the Chest-Wall Subcutaneous emphysema of the chest-wall, a somewhat uncommon occurrence, may result from the passage of air into the tissues, or from the development of gas within the tissues. The latter is the result of bacterial action, and does not here concern us. The passage of air into the tissues may occur under various conditions. In the lung of the child interlobular emphy- sema is a possible and by no means uncommon accident as the result of whooping-cough or capillai-y bronchitis, where the cough is frequent, violent, and paroxysmal. When the condition is marked, the air in the interlobular connective tissue may pass along the connective tissue surrounding the bronchi to the root of the lung, and thence diffuse into the mediastinum, neck, trunk, and the general surface of the body. In the adult, the lobules of the lung not being separated by distinct intervals of connective tissue, such an accident is impossible. In the adxilt the air may enter the mediastinum and I subcutaneous tissues through a lesion of some