102 CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF enlarged glands in the neck should not be over- looked. Auscultation should generally be practised before percussion, as being less likely to cause annoyance, and immediate auscultation is some- times less resented than the use of a stetho- scope. Then comes percussion ; and lastly the mouth and tongue have to be inspected, and the gums and fauces seen, and, if necessary, felt. This is the part of the examination which is most likely to make the child cry, and therefore it is left to the end. The tempei-ature may be taken at any time before or during the examination. The Head.— In examining the head we must note its size, shape, and ossification, including the condition of the fontanelle and sutures. Size.—At birth the average circimiference of the infant's head is 13 to 13| inches. During the first six months it gains about 3 inches. At the end of the first year the head measures about 18 inches ; at two years old about 19 ; at five 20 to 20i; and at ten years about 21 inches. There are, however, considerable varia- tions in the size of the normal child's head. As a general rule, where the head is unusually large or small from causes which interfere with the health of the brain it has also a characteristic shape. Shape.—In rickets the cranium is square and sometimes asymmetrical; sometimes it presents a natiform or bossed appearance {see "Rickets"). The hydrocephalic cranium is large and rounded ; that of microcephalus small, with a receding forehead and a pointed vertex. Ossification.—This is investigated by palpating the anterior fontanelle, the sutures, and the back of the head (for craniotabes). The Fontanelle.—The normal fontaiielle (i.e. anterior fontanelle) is rhomboid in shape with not very thin edges, and its membrane is stretched somewhat tensely between these, so that its surface is about the level of the sur- rounding bones. It presents a slight pulsation transmitted to it from the arteries at the base of the brain, and a systolic murmur is often audible over it. As the child grows older the fontanelle gradually diminishes in size, and it is usually closed between the fifteenth and eighteenth months, or at latest before the end of the second year. It is changed in various ways in disease. If there is much thinning of the bony edges of the fontanelle, this indicates rickets or long-continued increase of the intra- cranial pressure. Alterations in the tension and level of the mem- brane give valuable information as to the state of the cranial contents. Slight increase of tension, with bulging, indicates cerebral hyper- semia, active or passive, and is therefore met with in fever, in whooping-cough and bronchitis, and always temporarily when the child coughs or cries. Creat tension with marked bulging I means considerable increase in the contents of the skull, and is found with hydrocephalus, intracranial tumour, and cerebral haemorrhage. Abnormal depression of the membrane indicates lowering of the vital powers. It is met with in acute diarrhoea and in other exhausting condi- tions, which call for stimulant and supporting treatment. When an infant presents symptoms which lead one to suspect intracranial disease, a normal condition of the fontanelle is always a reassuring sign. Alterations in the size and date of closing of the fontanelle are also important. Great delay in closure, so that the fontanelle is too large for the age of the child, is met with in rickets, in chronic hydrocephalus, and in cretinism. Premature closure is a valuable early sign of microcephalus. The Sutures.—Any gaping of the sutures or thinning of their bony margins has the same significance as enlargement of the fontanelle. The Neck.—The state of the lymphatic glands in the neck should be noted as a matter of routine. If any are enlarged, the area of skin or mucous membrane connected with these must be carefully examined. Stiffness of the neck must not be overlooked. Sometimes it is due to muscular rheumatism, sometimes to cervical caries. It is sometimes a symptom of basal meningitis, or some other intracranial disease. The Back.—In addition to the characteristic curvatures due to Pott's disease and rickets, we have to look out for the apparent kyphosis which is due to paralysis of the back nniscles from any cause. We have also to remember that inability to hold the back straight is a common symptom of idiocy. Any lack of suppleness and any tenderness on free move- ment of the spine should arouse suspicion of tuberculous spine-disease. The Limbs.—The state of the circulation in the extremities, the development of the muscles, the configuration of the bones, and the size and movements of the joints have all to be examined. Pain on movement of one or more limbs may be an early and important sign of infantile scurvy, or of syphilitic epiphysitis, or may be due to a subperiosteal fracture. Clubbing of the finger- ends may throw considerable light on the nature of an obscure heart or lung case, and the presence of tuberculous or syphilitic disease of a finger may help to elucidate the nature of a brain lesion. In children with any manifesta- tion of rheumatism, careful search should always be made over the bony prominences of the limbs for rheumatic nodules. The Mouth and Throat.—The Lijys.—The appearance of the lips is mainly useful as an index of the state of the circulatory system (anaemia, cyanosis, etc.). The Tongue.—In young infants the tongue is more or less coated, owing to the scantiness of