CLIMATE AND ACCLIMATISATION 1G4 term of climate, we turn first to the composition of the air. Eoughly speaking, in 100 volumes of air, we find there are of oxygen 20-96, nitrogen 79-00, cai-bonic acid 0-04. The amount of oxygen in the air varies to a considerable ex- tent, but rarely exceeds one-tenth in volume ; the carbonic acid in the atmosphere varies considerably also; it may be in the proportion of from 4 to 30 in 10,000; there are also in the atmosphere other substances of a gaseous nature •—ammonia, ozone, etc., as well as solid sub- stances floating in the air, which vary in different places and vmder various conditions. Obviously in large towns one would expect these adventitious particles to be far more abundant than in the country. The suspended matters in the atmosphere are of considerable importance, and indeed it is upon the recognition of these that Lister's antiseptic theory has been based. The temperature of the air naturally also influences climate, and in this connection we have to distinguish between the sun heat or radiant heat, and the air heat or shade tempera- ture, which is due to the warmth imparted to the air from the ground, unless influenced by wind. " The nature of the surface of the ground exercises great influence on the amount of heat which is absorbed and reflected; the nearer the colour of the ground approaches to white (snow, chalk cliffs, white walls, etc.), the more direct the sun heat reflected by it, the less heat being absorbed ; the darker the ground (grass, green leaves), the less heat reflected and the more absorbed. The ground which absorbs more heat from the direct rays of the sun can give out more heat during the night, and vice versa. The influence thus exercised on the climate of a place is evident, and the white snow-fields of the Alps in winter form a well-known illus- tration." The temperature of maritime regions is influenced by the ocean, and in mountainous regions altitude lowers the mean annual range of temperature. With regard to barometric pressure, it must be noticed that, if great, it exerts a very marked influence upon the human being. It tends to increase the amount of carbonic acid and water exhaled by the lungs, and at first to induce laboured respiration and inability for exercise, as well as constipation and depression. The influence of light is also important, and, owing to its action on the centripetal nerves, it increases the metabolism. Winds purify the air and induce changes in temperature, atmospheric pressure, moisture, and light, and therefore they must be taken into consideration, not only with regard to climate in general, but as to health resorts in particular. The monsoon winds, the sirocco, and the kamsin are beneficial or untoward factors where they obtain. The cultivation of the soil exerts an influence upon the temperature, for cultivated land, which is well drained, raises the temperature, as has been demonstrated by Buchan. It is obvious also that vegetation must play a marked part, because where it is luxuriant the sun's rays upon the ground are more or less prevented. Ground covered by forests has a lower tempera- ture than that which is bare, and the diurnal variation in well-wooded districts is more equable than that in open country. It is obvious also that sandy, dry, and well-drained soils are much warmer than wet and marshy districts, which certainly produce mist and fog. A sandy desert is exceptionally warm in summer, although com- paratively cold in winter. The amount of ivatery vapour in the atmo- sphere is also an important factor of climate. Evaporation and condensation constantly alter the humidity of the atmosphere. As a rule, absolute humidity is greatest with a high tem- perature, but relative humidity is usually greater in winter than in summer. It is only when saturation of the air obtains that we have mists and clouds,—clouds predominating at average heights, mists clinging to plains and maritime positions, or the neighbourhoods of large lakes. On mountain tops mists are rare. With regard to rainfall, its distribution is unequal over the globe and varies in amount, from 300 to 400 inches annually on the southern slopes of the Himalayas, to almost nothing in the Sahara. Again, the number of rainy days experienced annually varies greatly, and does not invariably correspond to the amount of rain which falls. Rainfall is not always injurious, as it diminishes the amount of impurity in the atmosphere; but, in considering the climate of a health resort, the amount of rain, the rainy season, the number of days on which rain falls, and the time of the day, are all subjects for consideration, as far as invalids are con- cerned. It should be remembered that where moun- tainous regions lie in the path of moist air cur- rents rainfall is great, as, for instance, the Khasi range of hills, which have an annual rainfall of about 500 or 600 inches, for they intercept the S.W. monsoon, which, laden with vapour from the Bay of Bengal, impinges on them. On the lee side of mountains, however, the rainfall is less. Although the electrical condition of the atmo- sphere must play some part in climatology, its practical importance is insufficiently understood. Climate must also be considered with refer- ence to the treatment of disease. A change of climate cannot be said to be a specific in treating disease, but there is no doubt that in many dis- eases a change of climate acts most efficaciously. It is a well-known fact that the removal of a patient for even twenty or thirty miles may be exceedingly beneficial. In choosing a change of