476 EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF which the tympanum participates. In severe forms, at a very early stage, the epidermis may be elevated by effused blood, causing one or more bluish swellings in the bony meatus, which may lead to considerable discharge of blood from the ear (otitis externa hsemorrhagica). After a short period of hyperfemia and swelling, with, it may be, hfemorrhagic elevations, a dis- charge from the meatus appeai-s. In the ecze- matous variety there are usually itchiness, heat, and sense of fulness, and, on examination, we find in the meatus serous or purulent secretion, with, in many cases, laminated masses of sodden epidermis. After removing inflammatory pro- ducts by cautious syringing and drying, the meatal and tympanic surfaces are usually seen to be red, swollen, spongy, or granular from loss of epidermis. In the chronic stage, granii- lations are apt to spring up, while the discharge acquires a disagreeable odour. Glandular en- largements of the neck or swelling over the parotid gland are likewise not uncommon. If treatment be neglected or insufficient, especially if the patient have an unhealthj^ constitution, the disease is apt to go on indefinitely, and may bring about such consequences as the follow- ing:—(1) stenosis of the meatus, from hyper- trophy of the cutaneous lining, or from hyper- ostosis of the bony walls ; (2) caries or necrosis of the osseous part (this is, however, a much more frequent result of middle ear disease) ; (3) perforation of the tympanic membrane and extension to the middle ear, or opacity and thickening of the tympanic membrane; (4) owing to the defective state of the tympanic plate in the young child and to the clefts in the cartilaginous meatus, inflammation of the ex- ternal meatus is apt, at that time of life, to extend to the articulation of the jaw and the parotid gland; (-5) fatal implication of the meninges, brain, or lateral sinus may result by extension through the roof or back wall. This, however, is very rare compared with fatal extension from the middle ear spaces. As inflammatory affections of the meatus are very often associated with middle ear disease, it is sometimes difficult, in a given case, to decide which is the primary condition; while, owing to stenosis of the meatus, it may be im- possible to determine accurately the state of the tympanic membrane or middle ear. From furuncular inflammation the diffused form is distinguished by the localised nature of the former as tested by a probe. If the inflamma- tion be eczematous, we shall find other symp- toms of eczema, such as itchiness, scaliness, and occasional serous discharge. In the parasitic form, microscopic examination is necessary in order to form a correct diagnosis. This variety is to be suspected, if a condition resembling a ceruminous collection is attended by severe pain, difficulty in clearing out the meatus, and tendency to recur. Treatment of the various forms of Otitis Externa Diffusa.—In the acute stages, abstraction of blood, by means of leeches, will have a mitigat- ing influence, especially in removing pain. Two leeches applied over the tragus, and two at the lower part of the mastoid, will afford sufficient depletion in the case of an adult. After the bleeding has ceased, the good effects are en- hanced by the use of hot fomentations. In milder cases, or when there is not much pain, removal of blood is unnecessary. Gentle syring- ing with hot water, in which 2 per cent of boracic acid has been dissolved, is also calculated to soothe pain. Warm poultices of linseed meal applied over the ear are also soothing, but they should only be used while the pain is at its height, and should be discontinued as soon as there is relief. A few drops of tincture of opium or of the following—R Liniment, belladon., liniment, opii aa ^i'^'- M.—placed on a plug of cotton- wool, and inserted in the outer orifice, usually afford relief to pain. The gelatine preparations of Gruber (amygdalte aurium) are preferred by some. These contain, for an adult, either ^th of a grain of liquid extract of opium, or yVth of a grain of hydrochlorate of morphine. They are introduced with aural forceps, and the meatus is afterwards closed with cotton-wool. The gelatine gradually dissolves, and relief to the pain follows. If the pain should be intense, preventing sleep, an internal sedative, such as Dover's powder, or the subcutaneous injection of morphia, may be required at night. In the acute condition rest and quiet in the house, especially during winter weather, contribute to the recovery. At the same time a plug of cotton-wool should be kept in the orifice of the ear, while a pad of cotton-wool is placed over the side of the head. When the secreting stage begins and in- flammatory products occupy the meatus, the ear should be gently syringed once or twice a day, or less frequently if the secretion is slight, with a hot solution of boracic acid, then dried as far as the tympanic membrane with absorbent cotton on a cotton-holder, and a small quantity of finely powdered boracic acid blown in. As soon, however, as the secretion has ceased to form, the parts should simply be kept dry. Granulation tissue must, if present, be removed with a snare or suitable forceps, followed either by the boracic treatment, just described, or by the spirit treatment. The latter form of treat- ment is applied as follows: — After syringing with a solution of boracic acid and drying out the ear, a solution, consisting of equal parts of rectified spirit and water, well warmed, should be poured into the ear and allowed to remain there for ten minutes—repeating the process twice a day till the ear be perfectly dry. When the condition of the meatus depends upon a purulent affection of the middle ear, these remedies are specially suitable.