324 DIABETES MELLITUS which cerebral changes have been found post- mortem, that have probably been the cause of the diabetic symptoms. In 30 of such cases recorded in literature, there was a tumour in the floor of the fourth ventricle in 4, other changes at this region (such as softening, fatty degeneration, sclerosis, htemorrhage, cysticercus) in 14, tumour of the medulla in 3, lesion at the base of the brain (tumour, softening) in 3, tumour of the pituitary body 1, cysticercus in cerebellum 1, softening in cerebellum 1, cerebral tumour (temporo-sphenoidal lobe) 1, tumour compressing right vagus nerve 2. In 14 consecutive cases recently examined by the writer, the medulla and other parts of the brain appeared normal in 9, in 5 naked-eye changes were found. In the latter cases the changes were the following: cyst of the cere- bellum close to the right vagus root in 1, cerebro-spinal meningitis (probably secondary to hepatic abscess) in 1, minute hsemorrhagic patch in left vagus nucleus in 1, tumour of the pituitary body in 2 (in those two cases symptoms of acromegaly in addition to those of diabetes were present during life). Careful microscopical examination of the medulla has been made frequently, but usually with negative results. The minute excavations around the cerebral arteries described by Dickin- son are now generally believed to be due to the effects of hardening. Frerichs described a marked dilatation of the small vessels of the medulla, and this he regarded as the most im- portant and constant change in the nervous system in diabetes. Of 10 cases of diabetes examined microscopically by the writer, the medulla appeared normal in 4; in 1 there was purulent meningitis ; in 5 cases the blood- vessels of the vagus nuclei were much dilated. In 3 of the latter 5 cases there were small hfemorrhages present in the vagus nuclei, twice unilateral, once bilateral. In one of the cases the hsemorrhagic patch could be seen with the naked eye. Though the examination of the medulla often yields negative results, it is still possible that minute or functional changes may he present in the nerve cells of the vagus nuclei, or at other part of the medulla, which cannot be recognised at present by microscopical examination. The spinal cord is usually normal, or presents changes which are to be regarded as secondary ; but in a very few cases gross lesions have been found which may have been the primary cause of the symptoms (tumour or softening of the cervical region). The sympathetic nerves and ganglia (cervical and abdominal) have been carefully examined by Hale White and others; often they have been normal, and when changes have been found they have not differed from those which have been frequently met with when there have been no diabetic symptoms during life. Occasionally a mild glycosuria occurs in association with well-marked disease of the nervous system, such as locomotor ataxia, dis- seminated sclerosis, Graves' disease, etc. Bub the association of a well-marked diabetes with these affections is very rare. Diabetes and Acromegaly.—During the last five years a number of cases of acromegaly have been recorded in which glycosuria was present, and in some of the cases there has been a well- marked diabetes (2 cases of diabetes associated with acromegaly have come under the writer's observation). Out of 21 cases of acromegaly recorded in literature, 4 were associated with true diabetes, 2 with glycosuria, and in 15 cases the urine was free from sugar. In acromegaly a tumour of the pituitary body is usually present, and cases of tumours of the pituitary body are on record in which diabetes has been present, but symptoms of acromegaly absent. The Relation of Diabetes to Lesions op the Pancreas.—Changes in the pancreas have been described from time to time, ever since Cawley recorded a case of diabetes (in 1788) in which the pancreas was atrophied and contained calculi. Many years ago Lancereaux drew attention to- the pancreatic lesions. In 24 consecutive cases of diabetes examined pathologically by the writer, the condition of the pancreas was as follows :— Cases.. (rt) Extensive changes (very marked cir- rhosis 2, cancer 1, extensive atrophy 1) 4 (6) Well-marked changes (cirrhosis 2, lipo- matosis 1, atrophy with fatty de- generation and infiltration 1) . . 4- (c) Slight changes (atrophy with slight fatty degeneration 1, atrophy out of proportion to the general wasting 2) 3' (d) Atrophy, but only in proportion to the general wasting . . .5' (e) Pancreas normal, macroscopically and microscopically . . . .8 24 In the first 4 cases of the above table the pancreatic changes were so extensive that, bear- ing in mind the result of total extirpation of the gland in animals, there can be little doubt that the diabetes was due to the pancreatic lesion. In the second group of cases it also appears probable that diabetes was due to the pancreatic changes; in the third group the relation is un- certain ; and in the last two groups of cases- either the diabetes was not dependent on the pancreatic disease, or the pancreatic affection, if present, was a functional one which could not be recognised macroscopically or microscopically. Many cases of diabetes associated with pan- creatic disease are now on record, and various extensive changes have been found, such as cirrhosis and fibroid changes, fatty infiltration