CHOREA 135 Treatment in an asylum is seldom necessary, except in cases with severe mental symptoms where isolation at home is unattainable. But if a case is doing badly at home, transference to hospital is often advantageous and expedites the cure. The diet should be nutritious and easily absorbed. The more food the patient can take the better. In severe cases where deglutition is impaired, or where from mental dulness the patient does not take enough nourishment, nasal feeding must be resorted to. Hughlings Jackson gives alcohol—a teaspoonful of brandy every four hoTirs—in severe cases of chorea, and with excellent results. The bowels must be kept open, but strong cathartics are to be avoided. It is important that the patient should sleep well, and hypnotics must be given if necessary. As to drugs, arsenic is the classical remedy. It is given by the mouth, and the dose should commence with three or four minims of the liquor arsenicalis three times a day, increasing gradually to ten or fifteen minims. If symp- toms of arsenical poisoning appear, such as conjunctivitis, nausea, and gastric pain, the drug must be stopped for a few days and then resumed in a somewhat smaller dose. The administration of large doses of liquor arsenicalis (fifteen to twenty minims three times a day) from the first, for a period not longer than a week, has sometimes yielded good results ; but if this mode of administration be persisted in for a long period, it is not devoid of risk. Arsenic in large doses administered for a lengthened period not only induces a brownish pigmentation of the skin, but has sometimes produced very intractable peripheral neuritis. In severe cases chloral hydrate is of great service as a hypnotic and general nervous sedative. Some physicians keep the patient continuously asleep for weeks by means of this drug, but caution is necessary in siich cases, since the chloral sleep is sometimes followed by maniacal excitement. Bromides are of singularly little value in chorea. In very violent cases morphia may be administered hypodermicall}^, or it may even be necessary to give chloroform to control the violence of the movements, but such treatment can only be of temporary service, it being much better to keep the patient under the influence of chloral. In some cases antipyrin is useful, but care must be taken not to produce cardiac failure, therefore during treatment by antipyrin the patient must be kept absolutely at rest. Valerianate of zinc, oxide of zinc, hyoscine, cannabis indica, and physostigmine have all been employed, but are of little use. Salicyl compounds occasionally give good results, especi- ally salol ; but in other cases, again, they fail entirely. The application to the spine of electricity. faradic or galvanic, and the freezing of the skin over the spine by means of ether spray, which have sometimes been employed, are of doubtful value ; and when we remember that the disease is of cereljral and not of spinal origin, this can readily be understood. During convalescence mild gymnastics are often of service, and a change of air often serves to confirm £he cure. Finally, it must be remembered that chorea is a disease which is prone to recur. Each successive attack must be treated on the same principles, rest and feeding being more important than medicinal therapeutics. Hereditary Adult Chorea (Huntington's Chorea) This is a somewhat rare disease which must be carefully distinguished from the ordinary chorea minor. The disease was described in 1872 hy Hunt- ington of New York as a form of chronic pro- gressive chorea occurring hereditarily in certain families through many generations, the malady commencing in middle life, being associated with mental weakness, and continuing until death. Since its original description the disease has also been observed with considerable frequency in Britain and on the continent of Europe. The complaint is markedly hereditary in certain families and has been traced through many successive generations. Sometimes, how- ever, one generation escapes and the disease does not afterwards reappear in the family. Males and females are eqiudly aftected, and both sexes may transmit the disease, wliich begins, as a rule, in middle life, commonly between the ages of thirty and fifty years. It may arise without any cause whatever, but sometimes it first becomes evident after emo- tional excitement. Thus in one woman, whose mother and maternal grandmother had been similarly affected, the earliest symptoms came on after the physical and mental shock of being forcibly discharged by her employer, who threw her down a flight of stairs. Sym.pto7nis.—The patient exhibits movements of a choreic type, iisually first noticed in the face or upper limbs, gradually increasing in severity, and ultimately, in the course of years, affecting all the voluntary muscles of the body. The motor symptoms are similar to those of chorea minor, with grimacing, gesticulation, aflection of articulation, and almost constant play of in- voluntary irregular movements of the eyes, face, limbs, and trunk. The ocular muscles do not necessarily escape, as some authors state. Some- times one side of the body is aftected for years before the other side is attacked. The movements, as in chorea minor, cease diu'ing sleep and are increased by emotional excitement; but, unlike ordinary chorea, they can be arrested when the patient desires to