VISION 196 COLOUR theory asserts that all the chromatic substances are absent, the white-black alone remaining. Mono-chromatopsia.—This is a very rare group akin to the above, in which the whole spectrum appears in shades of some one colour—• green or blue-violet. In such cases we assume the existence of the corresponding photo-chemical substance only. Partial Colour-blindness. — Of this condition there are three varieties designated (according to the Yoiuig-Helmholtz theory)—blue-blindness, green-blindness, and red-blindness. All are char- acterised by the spectrum appearing dichromic, with a neutral area of white or grey, as shown in the accompanying diagram. Blue-blindness, violet-blindness, yellow-blue blindness of Hering, akyanopsia, axanthopsia.— This group is very rare, and therefore not of practical importance. The spectrum consists only of red and green, with a neutral grey area in the yellow; the blue-violet end is usually much shortened. In typical cases only red and green are seen perfectly (Erythrochloropsy of Mauthner), blue is confounded with green, purple with red, orange with yellow, and violet with yellow-green or grey. According to Young- Helmholtz, the blue-sensitive substance is here equal to, or has the properties of the green- sensitive substance, as diagrammatically repre- sented by the parallelism and proximity of the green and blue curves in the figure appended. From this it is evident that at Y (the point of intersection of the curves), where in normal eyes the sensation of yellow would be perceived, all the three substances would be equally stimu- lated, and the sensation of grey in consequence provoked. Hering's hypothesis explains the condition by the absence of the yellow-blue suljstance. Uniocular cases have been recorded by Holm- gren and other observers. Green-biitulness, Hering's red-green blindness with unshortened spectrum, achloropsia, aglau- kopsia, xanthokyanopy of Mauthner.—This is a group of great practical importance. The unshortened spectrum contains no green, but appears to consist of two colours only, usually called various shades of yellow and blue, which colours join each other directly, or are separated by a narrow neutral grey band. In such cases bright-green is confounded with dark-red, and a dark-green letter on a black ground is not recognised. According to Young-Helmholtz the green- sensitive retinal substance is here equal to or has the properties of the red-sensitive matter, as indicated in the accompanying diagram by the close proximity of the green to the red curve. From this it is obvious that at G (the point of intersection of the curves), where normally green would be perceived, all the three sensitive substances are stimulated equally, and the sensation of grey is brought about. Red-blindness, Hering's red-green blindness with shortened spectrum, anerythropsia. Dal- tonism.— The spectrum is shortened owing to the absence of the red end, and is composed (as in green-blindness) of two colours—yellow and blue. The differences are that the neutral grey zone between the yellow and blue is now nearer the blue end, and that the yellow begins in the orange and not in the red as in green- blindness. In such cases light-red is confounded with dark-green, and a dark-red letter on a black ground is not recognised. The Young-Helmholtz theory asserts that the red-sensitive substance is here equal to, or has the properties of the green-sensitive substance. This is indicated in the accompanying diagram by the closely adjoining position of the red to the green curve. Here red at R is stimulated so slightly that the sensation is barely provoked, while at the site of intersection of the curves, GB, the normal greenish-blue is perceived as grey, for here all the three sensitive substances are stimulated equally. According to Hering's theory, green and red blindness are varieties of red-green blindness due to absence of the red-green visual substance, the difference in response to tests being due to variation in colour of the ocular media—the crystalline lens and the macula lutea. This is hardly feasible, for lens discoloration only occurs in senile or diseased eyes, whilst the macular pigment, which undoubtedly does affect greenish-blue rays, barely influences those con- cerned in the above difference. Incomplete Colour-blindness, Diminished Colour- sense, Dyschromatopsia. — In these cases, which are of frequent occurrence, the acuteness of colour-perception is reduced. When objects are suthciently large and well illuminated, colours are recognised ; but when seen under unfavour- able conditions as to illumination, or mixed with white or grey, the ground colours are less readily detected than by the normal eye. All the spectral colours are appreciated, except that violet cannot be distinguished from blue, or is called grey or brown. Pure colours are easily recognised, but when mixed, difficulty is ex- perienced in picking out the dominant one, and gradations in colour are less obvious. The acuteness of colour-perception in persons with normal trichromatic vision is not invariably the same; indeed a difference may be noticed in the eyes of the same individual. These slight aberrations from the normal condition are probably attributable to a reduced sensibility or an alteration in the relation of the three photo-chemical substances, whereby they simulate each other in properties, and manifest their distinctive effects less potently. Colour-ignorance.—This is ignorance as to colour nomenclature, and not inability to dis- criminate between colours. Its existence in the adult is very doubtful, as evidenced by the