BROAD LIGAMENT, toma may burst. Fatal intraperitoneal htemor- rhage is in either case very probable. Should the hsematoma remain stationary, it is not likely to suppurate. The hsematoma associated with Extra-uterme Pregnancy is described mider that heading {vide " Ectopic Gestation "). Tumours op the Broad Ligament. (1) Of the Mesosalpinx.—-When the uterus is the seat of a large fibro-myoma, and in certain other con- ditions involving obstruction to the lymphatics of the pelvic viscera, large yellow blebs or bullae of irregular form are often seen covering the mesosalpinx. These " lacunar cysts " or " sub- serous hygromas " do not in themselves endanger the patient, nor do they interfere much with operative manipulations ; they are simply im- portant as usually indicating serious complica- tions elsewhere. Anatomically the simple parovarian cyst is a true tumour of the mesosalpinx, and so are all papillomatous cysts developed from the paro- varium, and from that portion of Gartner's duct which lies within its folds. The different ways in which the folds of the mesosalpinx may be opened Tip by tumours from other parts is de- scribed above. Small fatty ttimoms, pedmiculated or sessile, have been detected in the mesosalpinx, which often contains a little fat. Parona's case of lipoma of the tube was possildy a fatty tumour of the mesosalpinx surrounding the tube. (2) Of the Mesometrimn. — This part of the broad ligament may be the seat of a fibroma or fibro-myoma developed quite independently of the uterus, from the hbrous and muscular tissue in its folds. A tumour of this class may attain a great size, and press upon the vessels and nerves of the pelvis and on the ureter. No other kind of abdominal tumour displaces peritoneum more widely or moi'e freely. Li comparison with uterine " fibroids," these mesometric fibro-myo- mas develop in younger subjects, large growths of this class having l)een removed from women under thirty years of age. " Fibroids " originating in the uterus, especi- ally near or in the cervix, tend to burrow into the mesometrium. They then lie very close to the ureter. In exceptional cases that duct has been found passing over and not luider the bur- rowing tumour. There is often much fat in the mesometrium, and hence it is not surprising that lipoma of that fold has been recorded. Saixoma has also been observed. Freund describes a case of extensive invasion of the liroad ligament with echinococci. Broad bent's Law.—The hypothesis that bilaterally associated movements are repre- sented on lioth sides of the brain, and that the closer the bilateral association the more nearly equal is the representation on the two sides of the brain. See Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels (Paralysis from^ Vasrular Lesions). DISEASES OF THE Broadbent'S Sign. —One of the dia- phragm-phenomena in adiiercnt pericardium ; a visible retraction of the thoracic wall, well seen on the left side posteriorly between the eleventh and twelfth ribs; it is due to the systolic tug of the heart communicated to the chest wall along the lines of attachment of the diaphragm. Broca's Convolution. ;SVe Aphasia {Anatomical Introduction); Brain, Physiology' OF (^Functions of Cerebral Cortex) ; Physiology', Nervous System {Cerebrum, Discharf/inr/ Mechan- ism). Brodie's Abscess. See Knee-Joint, Diseases op {Pyogenic Diseases, Chronic Osteo- myelitis). Broiling'. See Brandering; Invalid Feed- ing {General Preparation of Meats). Brom-.—As a prefix Brom- indicates tlie presence of bromine in various chemical com- pounds, such as Bromacetal, Bromacetamide, Bromacetic Acid (mono-, di-, and tri-), Brom- acetones, Bromacetyl, Bromacetylene, Brom- acrylic Acid, Bromadipic Acid, Bromalbumin, Bromaldehyde, Bromalizarine, Broinallyl, Brom- aloin, Broinamide, Bromamylene, Bromaniline, Bromanisol, Brombenzene, Brombenzoyl, Bi-om- cafFein, Bromcinnamic Acid, Bromethyl (Hydro- Ijromic Ether), Brometone, Bromhydrin, Brom- hydroquinone, etc. Broma.—From the Greek fifMpM, signifies food, especially solid ; also a proprietary pre- paration (like chocolate) ; also as a prefix in such words as Bromatology (dietetics), Bromo- graphy, and Bromatometry". Bromal Hydrate.—A substance, crys- talline in character, similar to chloral hydrate, acting as a narcotic, and tending to slow the pulse and the respiration; used in epilepsy, chorea, etc., in doses of 1 to 7 grains. Bromalbumin. — A preparation used in epilepsy, etc., and consisting of bromine and albumin. Bromatology. See Diet. BromatOXism.— Poisoning by food: cf. allantiasis, liotulisiii. BromhidrosiS. See Bromidrosis. Bromide. See Bromum. Bromidia.—A proprietary preparation, containing chloral hydrate, Ijromide of potas- sium, and the extracts of cannabis indica and hyoscyamus ; it acts as a hypnotic. Bromidin.—A loroprietary preparation, acting as a hypnotic, and said to consist of chloral, cannabis indica, and hyoscyannis.