460 EAR, EXAMINATION OF into the cup-shaped end of the stethoscope, the true nature of the condition becomes evident. Valuable information may be obtained by the use of the tuning-foi'k if the patient is ignorant of the true results of the different tests. When complete bilateral deafness is feigned, the diagnosis becomes moi'e difficult, and it may be necessary to adopt the ruse of attempting to awaken the malingerer from sleep. 4. Objective Examination of the Ear.— Before pi'oceeding to examine the deeper parts of the external auditory meatus and the tym- panic membrane, the surgeon should make a simple inspection of the auricle and adjacent parts, because much useful information may be obtained by a preliminary examination of this kind. The patient's features may present the character so frequently spoken of as the "ade- noid facies," the result of nasal obstruction ; or the existence of facial paralysis may be detected on one or both sides. Enlargement of the glands in front of, below, or behind the auricle should be noted and their condition more exactly determined by careful palpation. In children an otorrhoea associated with enlarged lymphatic glands and facial paralysis sti'ongly suggests the tubercular nature of the affection. If there is any undue prominence of the auricle the cause should be investigated. Redness of the skin, ojdema and swelling over the mastoid process, and the presence of a sinus or cicatrix in the same region should not be overlooked, and the significance of such signs must be duly estimated. Malformations of the auricle and tumours may present themselves, while eczema confined to the pinna or in association with a like condition of the auditory meatus may be readily detected on inspection. It must not be forgotten that with suitable illumination the outer portion of the meatus can be examined without the introduction of the speculum. Such an examination, aided by pulling the auricle upwards and backwards and by gently drawing the tragus forwards, should be carried out as a routine practice. In this way the patient may be saved needless pain or dis- comfort, such as might be caused by the in- sertion of the speculum into an inflamed meatus ; at the same time boils, eczema, pus, and even the presence of a polypus or plug of wax can be in this way readily detected. Examination with the Aid of the Aural Speculum.—Source of Light.—Good illumination is essential for a pi'oper examination of the ear. The deeper parts of the external auditory meatus and the tympanic membrane are most satisfactorily examined by reflected light, i.e. by the indirect method. The source of the light will vary according to circumstances ; if bright daylight can be obtained, no better source of illumination need be wished for. The actual rays of the sun may prove somewhat trying to the observer's eye, and care must be taken to prevent the rays falling directly into the ear from a concave reflector, otherwise the parts may be burnt. Of the artificial sources of light, mention may be made of the Welsbach incandescent gas from an argand burner, the electric and oxyhydrogen light. A simple oil lamp or candle may prove quite satisfactory in default of any other means. The Reflector.—The small aural reflector in common use has a diameter of about three inches and a focal distance of five inches, and is perforated with a small central aperture. It should not only be provided with a handle, but should be capable of being easily adapted to a forehead band or spectacle frame, so as thus to leave both hands of the examiner free if necessary. The Aural Sixcuhim.—Numerous forms of speciila have been introduced, and it would be useless to enumerate the varieties here. The operator soon accustoms himself to the use of one form, which he learns to regard as superior to any other. Only the simple tubular speculum should be employed. A dilating speculum for the ear has no advantages, and only causes the patient pain and discomfort. A set of specula consists of four; the silver instruments have this advantage, that they can be boiled ; vulcanite specula are useful when caustics are applied to the ear. (a) Technique of the Examination.—A satis- factory examination of the deeper parts of the ear depends largely upon good illumination and correct manipulation of the pinna and speculum. The patient is seated with the ear to be examined turned away from the source of light, his head being slightly inclined towards the opposite shoulder. The surgeon, sitting or standing, holds the reflector lightly in one hand, in the right hand for the right ear, in the left hand for the left, placing the upper margin against his forehead, and tilting it to the angle requii-ed for throwing the best pos- sible light upon the parts. His eye, the right or left as the case may be, must be placed directly behind the central aperture of the mirror. A medium-sized speculum, held by its margin between the index finger and thumb of the other hand, is now gently inserted into the cartilaginous meatus, and at the same time the upper part of the pinna is grasped between the middle and ring fingers of the same hand and pulled upwards and backwards, thus rendering the canal as straight as possible. The speculum can now be insinuated a little farther, slight rotation assisting the movement, due care, how- ever, being taken that it is not inserted as far as the bony meatus. As a complete view of the whole tympanic membrane is not always ob- tained in one field, the outer end of the speculum should be moved backwards, forwards, upwards, and downwards, so that the various areas may be brought into view. The patient is then