CICATEICES 150 In individuals liable to it, it develops after such slight operations as piercing the ear for ear-rings, extirpation of warts, cauterisation, or after leech and insect bites, or on the sites of acne pustules. It may be multiple, as in a case of Schwimmer's quoted by Morrow, in which 105 tumours were counted. Keloid is a scar-like growth, usually circum- scribed and isolated. It may occur as a rounded, firm, pinkish elevation, with irregular or smooth surface, and on section creaks under the knife. Often from the central mass claw-like processes extend in the surrounding skin. As a rule it has the shape of the scar from which it has developed, but occasionally a part only of the scar undergoes the morbid change. Neumann, Warren, and Kaposi have described the microscopical appearance. Connective tissue begins to develop from the walls of the small blood-vessels of the cutis. In this way dense fibrous tissue is formed under the epithelium, the bundles being placed chiefly parallel to the surface, though a few small bundles are perpendicular to it. This is more vascular than true scar tissue. The epithelium is thinned over it, and the germinal layer of the rete mucosum becomes irregular. The growing part of the tumour is more cellular than the central older part, which may become very firm, dense, and hollowed on the surface. Frequently dilated veins course over it. The tendency to recurrence is explained by the development of spindle cells in the adven- titia of the vessels—a condition often extend- ing to some distance from the edge of the tumour. Keloid is usually confined to the dermis, leaving the papillary layers intact. If of a large size it may cause deformity by contrac- tion. It may project any distance from a line to ;J or ^ inch above the level of the surrounding skin. Clinically, keloid starts near the edge of the scar; it may cause no symptoms other than a sense of weight. There are usually, how- ever, subjective symptoms such as itching or sensitiveness on pressure; pain is not common ; ulceration and hsemorrhage may take place. It may develop in a few weeks, or at most a few months, after the exciting cause. Its natural tendency, as of all young fibrous tissue, is to contract after a time and atrophy. According to Neumann keloid never de- velops malignancy. Diagnosis.—From hypertrophic cicatrix by its outline, elevation, consistence, colour, and presence of itching or pain, and by the tendency of the latter to become stationary. The diagnosis from scleroderma and Addison's keloid (morpoea) will be discussed under " Sclero- derma," and from rhinoscleroma, under " Skin, Benign Tumours." Treatment.—Local treatment is directed to wards decreasing the vascularity of the tumour Applications like collodion (not flexile), either alone or containing lead acetate, a drachm to five drachms of collodion, are useful. Com- presses, strapping, elastic pressure, must be applied with caution, as they are apt to cause sloughing, and are only applicable when the keloid is circumscribed, painless, not greatly projecting, and resting on a bony surface. They are especially contra-indicated in diabetics and delicate patients. Multiple scarifications are of doubtful benefit, either alone or followed by mercurial ointments. In a few cases strong salicylic acid plasters 10 to 20 or 25 per cent have been successful. Itching is best relieved by regulation of the diet, by an occasional saline purgative. Fowler's liquor arsenicalis, liquor potassfe in large doses, or by frequent tepid bathing, either simple or with addition of carbonate of soda or potash, common salt or bran. Pain is relieved by ointments of camphor and chloral. Surgical interference by excision is only justifiable when the surgeon is reasonably certain that he can improve the appearance of the part by substituting a linear scar for the keloid, or at least of lessening its size. Tendency to recurrence is very marked, and the recurrence is often more exuberant than the original growth. In most cases it is best to leave well alone, and employ oidy palliative and constitutional remedies. Excision may be contemplated when the keloid is very unsightly and where there is plenty of free skin surrounding, so that the edges of the wound can be readily apposed without tension. The growth must be com- pletely removed, and buried sutures used, approximation being assisted by strips of gauze fixed to the skin with collodion. Everything must be done imder strict asepsis. Constitutional Treatment.—Cod-liver oil, iodide of iron, nourishing diet, are of use where tuberculosis is suspected; mercury and the iodides in syphilis. Good results have been obtained in the treatment by sea bathing. Malignant Diseases of Cicatrices.—Sarco- mata develop rarely in cicatrices. More com- monly, but still rarely, epitheliomata occur. They may develop at any period after the cicatrix has formed. One case is on record where epithelioma developed in an old lady in the scar of a burn which she received when a child of four years. Epithelioma develops very slowly in the cicatrix, and may not involve neighbouring glands until it grows beyond the cicatrix into normal tissue, in which it develops more rapidly. Treatment consists in early and complete excision.