CADENABBIA 46 Ca.dena.bbia,. See Therapeutics, Health Hesorts {Italian Lakes). Cadmium. — Cadmium (Cd) resembles zinc in its chemical relations ; in the form of the sulphate it acts locally as an astringent; it is not official. The iodide (ten grains to one ounce of vaseline) has been used as an ointment in the erythematous stage of acne rosacea. Caduca.—The decidua. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Decidua). Caduca Passio or Caducus iVIorbuS.—Epilepsy; the "falling sickness." CSBCitaS.—Blindness, e.g. csecitas verhalis, word-blindness ; csecitas nocturna, hemeralopia. CseCUm.—The caput coli of the intestine. See Appendix Vermiformis ; Hernia {Congenital Hernia of Ccecum) ; Typhlitis. CsenesthesiS. See Ccen/ESTHESIS. Csesaipinia.—^A genus of shrubs and trees of the Natural Order of the Leguminosa). The seeds of C. axillaris are used in malaria, and those of C. Bonduc as a tonic and anthel- mintic as well as in malaria; the leaves of the latter are said to act as an emmenagogue. The C. pulcherrima has seeds and leaves which are diuretic, purgative, and abortifacienti; its pods are astringent. The seeds of the C. Sajjpan of India act as emmenagogues. Caesarean Section. See Labour, Operations ; Labour, Prolonged {Contracted Pelvis); Pregnancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Fibroid and Ovarian Tumours). CSSSium.—An element (Cs) having an atomic weight of 133; it resembles potassium; and is contained in the rare mineral pollux. Bromide of caesium has been used as a sedative in place of bromide of potassium. CafTeaniC Acid.—Caffeanic acid, caffeelic acid, caffeotannic acid, and caffeilic acid are acids obtained from coffee; caffeone is the aromatic principle of coffee, and caffeidine is an alkaloid (CyHjoN^O) got by decomposing caffeine {q.v.). CafFeina. See also Alkaloids; Colour Vision {Acquired Colour-blindness); Diuretin; Guarana ; Pharmacology ; etc.—An alkaloid (CgHj^N^O.,, HgO) obtained from common tea {Camellia thea) or coffee {Coffea arabica), and known also as Theine or Guaranine. It is a methyl derivative of xanthine, and is thus related to theobromine, for caffeine is trimethyl- xanthine,'\vhiletheobromine is dimethylxanthine. Caffeine can be made quite soluble in cold water if half a grain of sodium salicylate for each grain of the caffeine be added. It may be given in doses of 1 to 5 grains; but its salt the citrate is more often employed. Caffeinae Citras is official, and may be given in doses of 2 to 10 grains, or in effervescent form {Caffeines. Citras Effervescens) in doses of 60 to 120 grains. In- compatibles are potassium iodide, mercurial salts, and tannic acid. The chief action of caffeine is to increase the force of the heart's action and to raise the blood- pressure. It also stimulates mental activity, and acts as a diuretic. It is used in heart disease for its stimulant action, and it is specially useful when there is concomitant dropsy. It has the additional advantage that it can, when mixed with solution of sodium salicylate, be given hypodermically. It is used in poisoning by alcohol and opium. The valeri- anate has been used in whooping-cough and hysteria, and the arsenate in malaria. Cag'Ot.—Cagot is the name given to cer- tain proscribed races living chiefly in the Basque Provinces. They were not cretins; possibly they suffered from a mild form of leprosy. The "Cagot Ear" has been regarded as a charac- teristic malformation; but this seems to be open to question. Caisson Disease. — Compressed - air Disease or Diver's Paralysis. See Spine, Sur- gical Affections of ; Vertigo. Cajuput Oil.—The volatile oil {Oleum Cajuputi) is derived from the leaves of Melaleuca leucadendron (or M. minor), and is a bluish- green liquid containing hydrous cajuputene, cajuputol, or cineol (eucalyptol), CjgHj,^OH, and terpineol, as well as aldehydes (butyric, benzoic). It is given in doses of ^ to 3 m., or as the Spiritus Cajuputi in doses of 5 to 20 m. In- ternally it is taken (on sugar) for colic, toothache, neuralgia, nervous vomiting, dysmenorrhcea, etc., acting then as a carminative and anti- spasmodic ; externally, it is used as a stimulant and counter-irritant, as in chilblains and chronic rheumatism. Calabar Bean. See Physostigmatis Semina ; Toxicology {Alkaloids). Calamine.—Native zinc carbonate; calamina prteparata contains chiefly zinc car- bonate with oxide of ii'on, etc. Calamus Scriptorius.—The lower end of the fourth ventricle of the brain, ter- minating in a pen-shaped point. See Physio- logy' {Nervous System, Vaso-motor Mechanism). CalcaneO-CavUS.—A variety of clul)- foot {q.v.). Calcaneum.—The os calcis or heel bone. See Ankle-Joint, Injuries {Fracture of Os calcis). Calcareous Concretions and