77 CAUTERY be again started. If the bleeding point is in bone or the socket of the tooth, a knitting- needle at red heat bored against the point acts well. 2. Hherrow Cautery or Pariiielin'K. — Before use the instrument should always be carefully tested, special attention lieing paid to the following points : — The benzoline reservoir should be only half filled, and the benzoline should be fi'esh, as it rapidly loses the active and more volatile portions. The blade should be heated red-hot in a spirit-lamp, and then the vapour piuiiped in. Should it not work, most probably the benzoline is at fault, and the heat of the hand over the reservoir may be necessary to distil over some active vapour. It is used in the same way as the actual cautery, but has one great advantage, that is, when it becomes adherent to the tissues the temperature can be raised and the cautery removed without detaching the eschar. After use the blade should be allowed to cool and then be dried. In ignipuncture for a painful spine, the skewer-shaped cauteiy is pushed through the skin over the lateral soft tissues, and inserted about ;J to ^ of an inch. The punctures are made about one inch apart. The Dechery automatic cautery is another variety of the thermo-cautery. Here ether is used instead of benzoline, half an ounce being- sufficient for forty minutes' incandescence. This is a very convenient and portable form of instrument. Practical Points in the Application. — [a) When the cautery is employed at red or white heat a general anaesthetic should be adminis- tered, and if ether be used great care must be adopted lest the inflammable vapour become ignited by tiie cautery. {h) If the constitution of the jMtieyit is en- feebled by ana3mia, Bright's disease, diabetes, melancholia, or other cause, the use of the cautery at red or white heat should be avoided, the reparative power of the tissues being much diminished. For the same reason it ought not to be used, if from disease or from injury the trophic power of a part is impaired. (c) Area of Ap})lication. — All hairy parts siiould be shaved, and the surface rendered aseptic. All open surfaces, as sores, fistula^ should be dried, and any blood-clots present removed. If the cautery is to be used for localised tender spots they should be marked before commencing the application. Soft parts witli tliick skin are the most suitable surfaces for application. When superficial, all bones, nerves, tendons should be avoided ; also the trachea and urethra. In brunettes, the neck, arms, and face are better avoided, as permanent pigmentation m-Ay result. {d) The Local Results.—The effect at first is very painful, especially when red and white heat have been applied. The application of the cautery produces burns of various degrees at the point of application, and "radiation burns" in the immediate neighbourhood. The eschar following burns of the third and fourth degree may take several days to separate. When the cautery has been employed as a hiemostatic, the separation of such eschars are apt to be followed by haemorrhage. After ignipuncture the healing may be very slow. After-treatment. — If there ])e much pain anodynes internally may be given, except in hysterical patients and malingerers. In burns of the first and second degree a weak antiseptic ointment spread on lint is all that is recpiired {see " Bui'ns "). In severer forms of burn cold boracic com- presses relieve the pain. If delay in the heal- ing is desired, ung. sabina; two parts to vaseline one or two parts shoidd be rubbed in once a day, and if the pain so induced be very great 2 per cent to 10 per cent cocaine may be added. The eschar being aseptic does not interfere with the healing of a wound by primary union. The disagreeable odour of burning flesh may be partially concealed by the fumes obtained from placing the red-hot cautery in some ground coft'ee. Ca.vernitiS>—Inflammation of the erectile tissues (corpora cavernosa) of the penis. See Penis, Surgical Affections of the {Infiani- matory Affections). Cavernous Breathing^. See Lung, TuiiERCUL(.)Sis {I'hysical Signs of Vomica- For- mation). Cavernous Sinus. See Brain, Phv siOLDGY ( Vi n<it(s Virciilatton). Cavities.—Hollow spaces in the Viody, open or closed, e.g. abdominal, amniotic, Iniccal, cotyloid, cranial, nasal, peritoneal, pleural, tympanic, and uterine cavities; also patho- logical formations, as in the lungs in phthisis (.see Lung, Tuberculosis of). Cayor Fly. —An insect found in Africa, the larva^ of wliich apparently cause boils. CebOCephaiUS.—A rare teratological type, closely related to cyclopia, in which the two orbits are appro.ximated (but not fused), the nose deformed, and the whole face diminished in size. The expression of the face is ape-like (kt/Z^os, ape ; Keff^aX;^, head). The brain shows the same malformations as in cyclopia. Celerina.—A preparation, said to contain celery, coca, kola, viburnum, and aromatics, which is reconuuended as a nerve tonic and anti- spasmodic in cases of neurasthenia, neuralgia, dysmenorrho'a, etc. Celery. See Invalid Feeding ( Vegetables).