159 CLIMACTERIC INSANITY Within the last few years, especially in America, few but active workers in asylums have pressed upon the attention of the medical profession their conviction of the urgent need for a more systematic, if not an universal exami- nation of the reproductive organs of insane women. Opei'ative interference has been ad- vised in these cases, and one enthusiast has placed on record that, out of 100 insane women, pelvic disease existed in 93, and operative inter- ference was required in 89. Such a statement is altogether exceptional, and has been strenu- ously controverted. Cases have been recorded showing that the removal of ovaries has l)een followed by disastrous consequences, and that these operations, generally speaking, have as little effect in the cure of insanity as the dis- credited operation of clitoridectomy for epilepsj'. Premature cessation of function, consequent on disease or consequent on operation, an arti- ficial climacteric, is assuredly not less hazardous than the ordinary involution of middle age. It is well known that certain bodily diseases are accompanied by certain mental concomitants. Spes phthisica is familiar to every physician, and the mental depression of liver disease has passed into a proverb. The influence of disorders of the sexiial organs on mental states has been ■widely recognised. They may determine the production of hallucinations. For instance, it has been accepted that olfactory hallucinations are generally indicative of these disorders, and not less at the menopause. Ever since Schroeder van der Kolk insisted on the reality of sympa- thetic insanity there has been no danger of overlooking the condition of the colon in the treatment of the insane ; and perhaps more than enough has been made of the relations between the sexual and the mental apparatus. Indeed, in the active search made for imderlying physical causes of insanity, the hopes which modern gyntecological treatment raised have been but partially realised. The correction of faulty con- ditions, however, offers a chance of mental recovery and nnist not be neglected. But, it must be admitted, it must be kept in mind that tlie great cause of insanity is some inherited defect. Broadly, the neurotic inherit- ance is the foundation fact of mental disease. The stress of the climacteric period may tell severely even upon the strongest women. When that stress occurs in the case of a woman whose ancestry bears traces of mental weakness, whose mental instability is part and parcel of her very nature, the symptoms of earlier and less pressing importance, such as flushings and giddiness, should be regarded as indicative of a near pos- sibility of further deterioration, mental and physical. The physician will seek to obviate these discomforts and disorders without loss of time, so as to prevent the development of morbid sensations into insane delusions, in so far as he can, by the regulation of vital functions and by the details of rational therapeutics and necessary hygiene. He will regard the stress of the climac- teric as a presumptive exciting cause of mental disorder in a person constitutionally predisposed to nervous instability. At such a time a woman may very readily slip into habits of invalidism. The nervous irritability, the physical weakness, the floodings may combine to induce her to adopt a course of life which is definitely detrimental. It may be that alcoholism, offering a speedy specious relief, is an immediate danger, although it is not so common a pitfall as has been recently alleged. Alcoholic indulgence is not an efflorescence of late middle life ; nor is it reasonable to suppose that the indecisive, introspective attitude so ordinarily adopted, intermingled as it is with religiosity and feelings of uuworthiness, can be a favourable soil for vicious indulgence. The question before the physician is one of redress. EquiliVjrium has been deranged. The habit of a generation has suddenly been broken; the system is not yet accustomed to the change of current. Manifestlyhis efforts must be towards the readjustment of equilibrium. This is not a mere question of medication or operative inter- ference miless these are demanded by the very circumstances. It is rather a question of wise management of daily life, of diet, of exercise, of repose, of mental occupation and recreation than invigorating climate. To enter on the principles and details involved would mean a needless re- petition of what will elsewhere be said in refer- ence to the treatment of insanity. Insanity.—It would appear that the ordinary troubles of the climacteric pass into exaggerated forms when the boundary line of sanity has been passed. By fine gradations the natural feelings of advancing years, the weakening vital impulse, the questionings if work and pleasure still remain possible, pass into realised feelings of morbid dread, of physical incapacity, of un- utterable miworthiness. Tiie flushings are ex- aggerated into beliefs that something has given way in the head, for continuous headache is often referred to the vertex or to the occipital region. Feelings of emptiness may alternate with the belief that some live animal is crawling about the interior of the abdomen. The skin may be the seat of delusions. It is common to find patients complain of being filthy or dis- eased. The occurrence of obsessions to wash is noticeable at this period of life, as it often is about the time of puberty. Naturally the genital organs participate in these disorders, or even predominate. The belief that pregnancy has occurred is very common, although this condition of j^^'^^'do-cyesis is by no means con- fined to the climacteric period, nor is it neces- sarily insane. Every practitioner of experience will recall cases in which insistence on preg- nancy at the climacteric has caused consterna- tion and very real trouble. Sensations have