452 DYSPHAGIA tongue is retracted, the glottis is closed, the larynx, soft palate, and pharynx are raised, and the bolus of food is brought into the posterior part of the pharynx. During this stage the food is prevented from passing into the nose by the combined action of the tensor and levator palati; and the larynx is closed effectively both at its upper aiid lower parts by the approxima- tion of the true and false cords. The third stage is reached when the food descends through the grasp of the constrictors and enters the oesophagus — when by means of a twofold movement, the longitudinal muscular fibres being retracted and the circular fibres con- tracted, the food is propelled into the stomach. The causes of dysphagia will readily be imder- stood from a consideration of the structures involved in the process of normal deglutition. These causes may be summarised as follows :— (i.) Acute inflammatory conditions of the tonsils, pharynx, and larynx. In some cases of sore throat the dysphagia is out of pro- portion to the severity of the inflammation, a condition probably due to interference with the action of the superior constrictor muscle. (ii.) Involvement of these structures in the course of a general disease, as phthisis, syphilis, or malignant disease. (iii.) Inflammatory and other conditions in the neighbourhood not directly associated with these structures, e.g. parotitis, etc. (iv.) Sti-icture of the oesophagus, either of a functional or organic nature. The most common causes of the latter are malignant disease and aneurysmal tumours. Great care is necessary in the measui'es taken to diagnose this con- dition. Stricture also results from cicatricial contraction after the swallowing of various corrosive irritants. (v.) Paralytic conditions, e.g. bulbar paralysis, post-diphtheritic paralysis, or the very late stages of progressive muscular atrophy. Any organic lesion which interferes with the in- tegrity of the centre in the medulla, or of the efferent fibres passing to the muscles involved, may induce dysphagia. The difficulty \\\ swallowing observed in many cases of general asthenia shortly before death is due to a general failure of the vital powers, and is thus of a paralytic nature. In these cases, doubtless, the failure is in great part dependent on a lesion higher than the medulla. (vi.) Functional Dysphagia. — This consti- tutes the most interesting group of all. It may be met with at any point of life, but is most common in young adults, and in very neurotic children of from ten to thirteen years old. Like other manifestations of hysteria it is more frequent in women. The clinical pic- ture varies considerably in accordance with the greater or lesser development of other hysterical symptoms. The age of the patient, combined with a study of the temperament, history, and general state of the patient, readily suffices to distinguish this condition. Dysphasia.—Difficulty of speech due to cerebral lesions. Dysphonia.—Imperfect or difficult or painful phonation or vocalisation, e.g. in cases of clergyman's sore-throat (when it is called dysphoyiia cler-icorum) or at puberty {dysphonia puheruni); it may be accompanied by stammer- ing (speaker's cramp or dysphonia spastica); and in it the voice may be reduced to a weak whisper {dysphonia susurrans). Dysphrasia.—Defective speech due to defective intellect. Dysphrenia.—Mental disorder. Dyspnoea. See also Abuominal Aneurysm {Pressure Symp- toms) ; Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Symptoms); Asphyxia {Definition); Asthma {Symptoms); Bronchi, Bronchial Glands {Pressure); Bron- chi, Bronchitis ; Chest, Clinical Investiga- tion OP THE {Inspection); Chlorosis {Symjjtoms); Diabetes Mellitus {Diabetic Coma, Symptoms); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symp- tomatology) ; Hysteria {Disorders of Respira- tory Organs); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Symp- toms) ; Lungs, Emphysema of {Symptoms); Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Pulmonary Em- bolism); Mediastinum {Groivths, Symptoms); Pneumonia {Clinical Features); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {General Symptomato- logy) ; Tabes Dorsalis {Affections of Cranial Nerves in); Thymus (Gland Simple Enlargement, Dyspnoea); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exoph- thalmic Goitre); Ubtemia {Chronic, Symptoms). The causes of dyspnoea will be readily appreci- ated on consideration of the neuro-muscular mechanism of respiration. As this is described in detail elsewhere, it is unnecessary to do more than indicate that during the inspiratory phase, air passes through the nose, j^harynx, larynx, trachea, large and small bronchi, into the lung tissue proper; while during expiration, the air passes from the smaller bronchi through the larger bronchi, larynx, posterior and anterior nares, to the exterior. Under normal circumstances this takes place noiselessly, is unattended with distress or diffi- culty of any kind, and has a frequency propor- tionate to the age and sex of the individual. In all cases of embarrassed respiration, the cause must be sought in some interference with the neuro-muscular mechanism of one or more parts of the respiratory tract. Hence the importance of making a systematic examination. Inspiratory Dysjmva may depend on obstruc- tion in any part of the respiratory tract. The diagnosis of the site of obstruction is frequently readily determined by careful inspection of the