DRUG ERUPTIONS 425 coil fi;l;iiid,s, uud iiuire especially tlie scbaceouis glands—are only to a small extent, and that secondarily, affected. It may also be pointed out that the distribution of such rashes is often, indeed in the majority of cases, confined to a limited area, and does not present the univer- sality of a circulatory poison ; and Morrow has drawn attention to the fact that very many of the drugs associated with skin eruptions have a known influence upon the nervous system, either by direct action upon the peripheral nerve end- ings or on the neuro-vascular centres. We are therefore driven by a process of exclusive reason- ing to the conclusion that in all these exanthema- tous rashes produced by drugs we have to deal with " a vaso-motor neurosis either from reflex irritation {i.e. from the j)eripheral nerve endings) or from direct action on the vaso-motor centres " (Crocker). But above all it must be constantly borne in mind that, in all cases almost, the determining factor is the "personal equation," than which no more variable or elusive quantity €an be found in studying the causation and remoter consequences of disease. A word must be said here as to the differential ili<tgnosis of drug erTiptions in general from the particular exanthematous rashes they simulate, —a point of the greatest clinical importance, and, indeed, the only one which raises these manifestations above the level of pharmaceutical curiosities. In the former case there is a history of the administration of the drug, and there are, as a rule, no constitutional complications. In the case of copaiba rash, which most closely resembles that of measles, the eruption super- venes suddenly without any jirecedent fever or coryza, though it should be noted that flushing of the face and injection of the conjunctiva may occur. In the scarlatiniform rash produced by belladonna, quinine, etc., there is no fever, no sore throat, though there may be vivid redness of the fauces, and no glandular complication ; and the same remark applies equally to cases where the eruption more closely resembles that of German measles. It is hardly possible that any of the pustular forms could be mistaken for variola ; but the surest way of escaping mistakes in all cases is an acquaintance with the perfect mimicry with which the exanthematous rashes are copied in many of the fornis of eruptions due to drugs. The avoidance of error is only possible where the knowledge of its likelihood exists. B. Drugs which produce Toxic EuurTioxs. —In dealing with the drugs which are most frequently concerned in the production of these varying eruptions in fuller detail, we have placed them for convenience of reference in alphabetical sequence. The symptoms associated with the development of each will there be given, and also the indications for any special, general, or local treatment, which has either proved of specific value or of benefit in alleviating symjv toms, under the heailing of each particular drug. The general principles of treatment will be referred to at the end of this section. Antifehi'in (Acetanilide).—A rash, somewhat resembling that of measles, has been described as following after the internal administration of this drug, even in doses of ten grains. Yvhen its use has been continued over a lengthened period, or given in larger doses over a restricted time, a peculiar cyanosis is induced which has been described as resembling a " slaty-coloured anajmia." There are no constitutional symjj- toms, and no altei'ation in the colour of the urine.^ Antipyriu (phenazone), when given internally, produces in a large proportion of cases a cutaneous eruption—the proportion varying from 2 per cent in men to 7 per cent in women. It is most frequently morbillilVirm in type, affecting the extensor more than the flexor asjjects, and the extremities more aggressively than the body. Its synunetr}' is usually well defined ; and it is associated with profuse sweat- ing, moderate itching, and a certain amount of subsequent desquamation. A distinctly urti- carial type has also been observed : and in exceptional cases the form assumed has been j that of a purpuric or bullous eruption. These various results are probably brought about by I the action of the drug in causing paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, and thus leading to the presence of a largely increased amount of blood in the vessels of the skin. The eruption gener- I ally disappears rapidly on the immediate discon- tinuance of the drug ; more slowly when it is given in gradually decreasing doses. Argenti nitras.—The peculiar bluish - grey I discoloration of the skin pi'oduced by the long- continued administration of nitrate of silver, and embraced in the term " argyria," is the most commonly observed result of the drug, though Charcot has described an itching and erythemato-jiapidar eniption as having followed its use in a few cases. It must be borne in mind, however, that its internal use as a medi- cine is not necessary for the production of the skin discoloration, as this result may follow the habitual application of a solution of the salt to nuicous surfaces ; as, for example, in chronic thi-oat affections. The deposit of silver, or silver combination, in the skin " is always con- j fined within exact limits to the margin of the j connective tissue, and specially affects the elastic ; fibres and the resisting limiting membranes, I avoiding altogether the protoplasmic parts of j the connective tissue, and the epithelium with [ its appendages" (Unna). It is stated that the prolonged administration of iodides given in very ! dilute combination with mineral waters (Vals, Vichy, etc.), along with massage in warm baths, aids in the elimination of the silver : but this is I ' The drugs wliicli induce marked alterations in tlie I urine will be referred to under " Urine."