262 CYANOSIS Cy£inOSiS.—The morbid condition in which the skin has a bhiish colour, due to im- perfect aeration of the blood on account of con- genital malformations of the heart (morbus caeruleths) or of asphyxia or collapse. See Bronchi, Bronchial Glands {Enlarged Glands, Symptoms and Signs); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Insanity of Cyanosis); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease); Heart, Congenital Malformations of {Physi- cal Signs); Raynaud's Disease ; Toxicology {Nitro-henzene, Aniline). Cycle.—The period of time during which certain events occur in a definite sequence; usually one cycle is followed by another in which the same events occur again in the same order. See Heart, Physiology of {Cardiac Cycle); Menstruation ; Physiology, Circulation {Heart, Cardiac Cycle). Cyclic Albuminuria.—A morbid state of the urine, in which albumen is found, but only at certain houi's of the day. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Albuminuria, Signifi- cance of). Cycling'. See Ankle-Joint, Region of. Injuries {Sprain, After - Treatment); Appetite (Loss of. Treatment). CyclitiS.—Inflammation of the ciliary body of the eye. See Glaucoma {Causes of Secondary); Iris and Ciliary Bodies (Inflam- matory Conditions, Cyclitis); Syphilis (Tertiary, Eye and its Appendages, Cyclitis); Typhoid Fever (Ocidar Complications). CyclOCephal us. — The teratological state of the face in which there is a single median eye, or in which two eyes (separate or fused) lie in one median orbital cavity; a nasal proboscis above (or below) the median eye may or may not be present. Cyclone. See Meteorology (Winds, Cyclones and Anti-Cyclones). CyCloplegia.—Paralysis of the ciliary muscle. See Eyeball, Injuries of (Contusion, Cycloplegia); Iris and Ciliary Bodies (In- juries, Traumatic Mydriasis). Cyclopia.—The single-eyed monstrosity (synopsia), in which the two orbits and their contents are more or less completely fused to- gether in the middle line of the face, so named after the one-eyed Cyclops (Polyphemus) of mythology; there is usually a nasal proboscis or tube above the single orbit, and there are commonly four eyelids; the brain is markedly malformed, the corpus callosum, falx, septum lucidum, olfactory lobes, and optic nerves being often absent. See Cebocephalus ; Cyclocephalus; Cyclotia : TjiiiA'ioLuGV (Malformations of the Cranium and Face). Cyclotia.—The teratological type in which cyclopia and synotus ai'e combined ; tlicre is"a