DIGITALIS 384 toxic and cumulative properties. Of the com- mercial preparations used as digitalin, JVativelle's consists principally of digitoxin, Homolles of digitalin, and the German forms of digitalein. Digitalis acts directly on the heart muscle, and also on the terminations of the vagus, causing a prolongation of diastole and a power- ful increase in systolic contraction. It acts directly on the muscular walls of the arteries, causing contraction of the vessels, and also stimulates the vaso-constrictor centres. The combined effect on heart and vessels results in a marked rise of blood-pressure. Digitalis also acts on other non-striped muscles, e.g. the in- testine, the bladder, and the uterus, but this is of less importance therapeutically. The diuretic action of digitalis is probably entirely of vascular origin. The relief of venous congestion and the general improvement in the circulation may sufficiently account for it, but many authorities believe that accompanying the general arterial contraction there is a relaxation of the renal vessels resulting in an increase of blood-flow through the kidneys. Against this latter hypo- thesis is the fact that it has not been shown to have a definite diuretic action in health. The chief use of digitalis is in disease of the heart. Much confusion has arisen as to the different types of cardiac disorder that are suitable for its administration, particularly as regards valvular disease. The matter is simplified if we remember that no valvular affection is in itself either an indication or a contra-indication ; that it is not required when the heart is acting well and com- pensation good; but that, as a general rule, it should be administered, irrespective of which valve is diseased, when the pulse is weak and irregular, the arterial tension low, and evidences of backward pressure and venous congestion are present. Thus its chief sphere of usefulness is in mitral affections, but the presence of an aortic lesion is not necessarily prohibitive, for, whereas with a powerfully acting left ventricle and a strong leaping pulse its administration is not only irrational, but absolutely dangei'ous, its use in cases w^here the left ventricle is failing has frequently the most beneficial effect, particu- larly if large doses are given and the patient kept in the recumbent postui'e during treatment. In cases of combined aortic and mitral disease, or in aortic disease with secondary mitral insufii- ciency, digitalis acts well in combating the effects of backward pressure. Digestive disorders, if present, should, when possible, receive attention before commencing the digitalis, as they are very often aggravated by the drug. The initial action being slow, three or four days may elapse before effects on heart and kidneys are observable. It is therefore advisable to begin with large doses, say 15-20 m. thrice daily, and then, when a re- sponse is obtained, to diminish the dose on account of the well-known cumulative effects. Thereafter it is only by carefully noting the signs, symptoms, and progress of each individual case that we ascertain accurately the daily amount required. In the course of a prolonged administration excessive rapidity, slowing, or irregularity of the pulse, dyspeptic symptoms, headache, dizziness, and sudden diminution in the amount of urine passed are all indications for a smaller dose or a temporary withdrawal of the drug. At the commencement of treat- ment, however, such symptoms as weak and irregular cardiac action and diminished secretion of urine improve very slowly or not at all; and it is only after boldly pushing the dose for several days that we are justified in concluding that the patient is not going to react to digitalis. In fatty heart, in simple dilatation, and in some cases of cai'diac irregularity and weakness with- out discoverable cause, digitalis may be of great service. It is also useful in a large number of acute and chronic diseases in which there is cardiac debility. In acute endocarditis it should be avoided altogether, but sometimes when the acute stage is over and the patient is convalescent small doses give favourable results. It must be given with great caution when the arteries are degenerated, on account of the risk of cerebral hjemorrhage. In uncomplicated Bright's disease it is very rarely indicated, certainly never as a diuretic. In rare cases, however, both in the acute and chronic forms, weak and failing heart action constitutes the most serious symptom, and may of itself call for the use of digitalis. In ha3morrhage digitalis does more harm than good, the arteriole contraction being more than counterbalanced by the increased pulse tension and force of the heart's action. DigClOSSia,! — A rare malformation, in which there is duplicity of the tongue, usually due to fissure of the organ {Schistoglossia). DihydriC Alcohols.—The dihydric or diatomic alcohols are dihydroxyl-derivatives of hydrocai'bons, two iiydrogen atoms being dis- placed by two hydroxl groups; thus from benzene (CuH,,) is got resorcin (C|3H^(OH)2). Dila.ta.tion.—Enlargement or expansion, or the part enlarged or expanded. Thus there is dilatation of the heart, of the bronchial tubes (bronchiectasis), of the stomach, of the veins (varix), of the arteries (aneurysm), of the cervix uteri (in labour), and of the cerebral ventricles (hydrocephalus). Dilator. — An instrument used for the 23urpose of opening up or expanding a natural opening, passage, or canal, e.g. Holt's urethral dilator, Hegar's or Barnes's cervical dilators, and Bossi's metal dilator used in accouchement force ; also a muscle which causes dilatation of an open- ing, such as the dilator pupilkc and the dilatores narium.