CORNEA 230 as the result of a blood infection, as is sometimes seen during an attack of smallpox, when pustules not infrequently develop on the cornea itself. Paralysis of the facial nerve, leading to weaken- ing of the orbicularis muscle and to insufficient protection to the cornea; corneal antesthesia depending on fifth-nerve paralysis; the insensi- bility of the cornea in absolute glaucoma, and in the late stage of exhausting diseases such as cholera, may lead to a loss of surface from ex- posure, or from unconsciousness of the presence of a foreign body. Treatment.—Before beginning treatment the cause of the ulcerative process should as far as possible be sought for. Foreign bodies should be removed from the cornea and the conjunctival sac, misdirected ej^elashes should be pulled out, and the condition of the lachrymal puncta should be noted. If the corneal affection is secondary to disease of the conjvmctiva, treatment of the latter should be actively pursued ; in gonorrhceal conjunctivitis the nitrate of silver treatment should be carried out as long as the condition of the discharge I'enders it necessary, care being taken to prevent injury to the cornea by the applications or by the necessary eversions of the lids. A mucocele or lachrymal abscess should be sought for, as this probably more than any cause tends to keep up activity in an ulcer; the lachrymal sac should be opened, and its contents washed out daily; the passage into the nose should be made free, and if necessary a style should be inserted in the nasal duct. In most cases of ulcer of the cornea great benefit will be derived from the firm application of a compress to the eye; it greatly prevents movement of the lid and the constant winking and spasm which are so painful, and it ensures warmth and protection ; the eye should be first covered with a pad of cotton-wool and the bandage should be applied over it. Where there is much conjunctival secretion, as in the cases of abscesses secondary to purulent con- junctivitis, it is best not to bandage the eye, because of the danger to the cornea of keeping the infectious discharge pent up between the lids. Heat applied to the eye is a valuable means of treatment, especially when the general level of nutrition is low. The most convenient method of applying heat is by hot bathing; simple hot water, or bettei', hot saline, containing 1 per cent of chloride of sodium, or a solution of 2 per cent of boric acid, should be applied to the eyes by pads dipped in the solutions kept as hot as they can be borne; this bathing should be kept up for half an hour at a time, and should be frequently repeated. A good way of keeping the lotion hot is to insert the basin in which it is contained in a basin of very hot water which can be frequently renewed. A means of applying heat that is very valuable is a Japanese hand-warmer, a small oblong tin box containing a slowly burning cartridge; if this be applied to the eye by a bandage over a layer of cotton wool, the heat can be kept up without difficulty for any length of time. Caution must be mentioned here against the use of any lotion containing lead where there is loss of the corneal epithelium; an insoluble, densely opaque film of lead salts may be de- posited on the ulcerated surface. Atropine should be used so that the pupil may be kept fully dilated; iritis is present in many cases of corneal ulceration, and atropine is necessary, to prevent adhesions and to subdue the iritis; apart from this, however, atropine secures physiological rest of the eye by dilating the pupil and paralysing the ciliary muscle. The best means of using atropine is in the form of an ointment of the strength of four grains of the alkaloid to the oiuice of vaseline; a small piece should be inserted inside the lower lid twice a day, or more often if iritis is present. The ointment is preferable to drops, as it remains longer in the conjunctival sac, and acts more thoroughly on the eye, with less risk of the un- pleasant symptoms of atropine poisoning from its absorption into the system. Atropine should be used just sufficiently to maintain full dilata- tion of the pupil, it should not be smeared freely over the lids ; sometimes where its use has been too profuse or too long-continued it gives rise to a highly congested state of the skin and con- junctiva, a condition known as atropine irrita- tion. Atropine irritation occurs generally in those who are peculiarly susceptible to its action ; in such people the smallest amount gives rise to symptoms. Wliere much redness of the skin and conjunctival irritation comes on during the use of atropine this form of irritation should be borne in niind, otherwise it may be thought that the ulcer is worse and needs more atropine. The drug should be discontinued and some other mydriatic, such as scopolamine or duboisine, should be substituted for it if necessary, but it is better to discontinue all mydriatics and use a simple ointment of boric acid for the irritated skin. It is sometimes useful to combine iodo- form with the atropine in infective idcers. Atropine 4 gr., iodoform 7)], vaseline, §j. Eserine has been strongly recommended by some surgeons as a routine treatment for ulcers of the cornea. Where there is a possibility of perforation it has undoubtedly a valuable place, but, speaking generally, its use tends consider- ably to the increase of irritative symptoms, pain, and intolerance of light, and to the circumcorneal congestion and iritis. It should be reserved for those cases in which imminent danger of a per- foration of the cornea leads to the fear that an extensive prolapse of the iris may occur. Eserine is also of value in certain cases in which the ulcer is indolent for a long time, neither advancing nor healing—a condition depending, probably, on impairment of niitrition. The increase of