294 DEFORMITIES whether the bones are soft or ebiirnated, and upon the direction of the curve and the age and social status of the patient. If the bones are soft no operative measure is called for, and all forms of curvature except the marked anterior are amenable to mechanical treatment when the bones are soft. (1) Constitutional treatinent of ricJcets with local 7)ianipulation.—This method is suitable for babies who have not yet walked, for children who are not weighty, and for those in whom the bones are not unduly soft and the curve is a general rather than a localised one. The manipulations are easily carried out by means of the nurse, and should be so done as to rectify the curvature. (2) Constitutional treat- ment ivith mechanical support and mani^mlation is adapted to the following cases:—When a curve_._ originally slight is becoming marked; when a child is weighty and cannot be kept off its legs ; when the curve is localised in one part of the bone more than another; and when the child is under four years of age and the bones are not hardened. It is not necessary to keep the child off its legs provided that the splints or mechanical apparatus are acting efficiently so as to control and diminish the size of the curve. The simplest form ef apparatus is an inside wooden splint from the internal condyle to the internal malleolus for external curvature, and the reverse for an internal curvature. But when the curve is compound, i.e. when it is antero-lateral, a trough splint may be used with the angle of the trough placed posteriorly and internally so as to act as an opposing force to the antero-lateral curve. Should the curve be mainly anterior, a more elaborate apparatus must be ordered. Operative Measures.—These are osteoclasis either manually or instrumentally, linear osteo- tomy, and removal of a wedge from the bone. Operative interference is called for when the bones are so hard that mechanical treatment is out of the question ; in children over four years of age; in cases of severe anterior curvature, and in marked instances of lateral curvature. With regard to the choice of operation, the majority of surgeons prefer osteotomy, but some elect to perform osteoclasis. In young children in whom the bones are not very firm manual osteoclasis is to be preferred. It is carried out by fixing the thumbs at the summit of the curve and using them as a counter-resistance to the hands placed at the extremity of the curve; by a sudden combined movement of the two hands against the thumbs the bone is quickly snapped. Care must be taken that the bone is completely broken and not merely a greenstick fracture produced. Instrumental osteoclasis is carried out by one of the numerous osteoclasts. The advantage of osteoclasis is that no open wound is produced, and the fracture is simple. The leg is afterwards put up in splints or plaster of Paris. Osteotomy is of two kinds. either the linear or the wedge-shaped. The limb may be put up into plaster of Paris. The removal of a wedge is rather more difficult, and much less satisfactory for the reason that it is often difficult to completely divide the perios- teum posteriorly, but wedge-shaped osteotomy is called for when marked anterior curvature is present. The wedge is best removed by the chisel. Sometimes non-union occurs after these operations, and it happens more frequently than is suspected; but considering the enormous number of osteotomies that have been performed, it is not a very serious danger. Genu Valgum, Varum, akd Recurvatum Definition.—Genu valgum is a deformity of the lower extremity in which, if the legs are fully extended on the thighs, an angle obtuse externally exists at the knee-joint. Varieties.—Rickety ; static ; rachitis adoles- centium ; traumatic, such as follows fracture of the lower end of the femur or separation of the epiphysis; inflammatory, due to ostitis about the lower end of the femur; and lastly, paralytic. Causation.—Three causes are assigned—bend- ing of the lower part of the shaft of the femur and upper part of the tibia, unequal growth of the epiphysial line, and relaxation of the joints. There can be no doubt that in rickety cases relaxation of the internal lateral ligament is the primary lesion, the internal condyle becomes prominent, and the other structures become adapted to the altered position of the limbs. The results are as follows :—Shambling gait, contraction of the biceps tendon and of the ilio- tibial band and external lateral ligament, rotation outward of the tibia, lateral mobility of the knee-joint, and some obliquity of the pelvis, and occasionally scoliosis. Flat-foot is very frequently seen in association with genu valgum. Symptoms.—When the alfection is coming on the patient complains of some difficulty in rapid progression, pain and tenderness over the in- ternal lateral ligament, and becomes very readily tired. Treatment.—In the rickety form the most important thing is to treat the constitutional trouble. Now iia static genu valgum there are two stages met with, relaxation of ligaments and muscles, and osseous deformities arising as the result of relaxation. These stages afford us a guide in treatment. For neither in the softened stage of the bones in rickety genu valgum, nor in the early stage of relaxed muscles and ligaments in the static variety, should an osteotomy, nor an osteoclasis, be performed. The means at our command, therefore, are general treatment, rest and local manipulation, mechanical treatment, and operative treatment. The general treatment is that for rickets. Manipulations are best carried out as follows :