CHOLESTERINE 129 INATION OF Pathological {Chemical Amdysis); Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts, Diseases of {Cholelithiasis) ■, Kidney, Surgical Affections OF {Cysts) ; Liver, Physiology of {Bile Forma- tion) ; Physiology ; Skin, Anatomy and Physio- logy {Secretion, Sweat, Sebum) ; Urine, Patho- logical Ciiaxges in {Cholesferine, Calculi). CholesteritiS.—A morbid state of the vitreous or aqueous humour in which choles- terine crystals (separated from the lens) are found floating therein. CholiC Acid.—Cholic or cholalic acid (('„^H^„(»j), present in the bile in the form of taurochoiates and glycocholates. See Physio- logy {Bile). Choline.—An alkaloid (Cr,H^5N02) found in bile, in nerve tissue (in lecithin), and in fungi; it is toxic, resembling muscarine in its action, and has been regarded as the cause of epileptic seizures. See Physiology, The Tissues {Nerve). ChoiOgfen.—A preparation used in cases of obstruction of the bile-duct, diabetes mellitus, etc. CholOpOiesiS. — The formation of bile. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Bile). Choiuria..—The presence of bile or its elements {e.g. pigment) in the urine {q.v.), detectable by Gmelin's test (play of colour). See Jaundice. Chondr-. — In compound words chondr- and chondro- mean relating to cartilage, as is exemplified in such words as chondralgia (pain in a cartilage), cliondrexarthrosis (displacement of an articular cartilage), chondrification (trans- formation into cartilage), chmidritis (inflammation of cartilage), choiidrohlast (a cartilage-forming cell), chondroclast (a cartilage-absorbing cell), chomb-o-cranium (the early stage of cranial development), clioiuirodialysis (decomposition of cartilage), chondrogenesis (formation of cartilage), chondromalacia (softening of cartilage), chondro- 'phyte (an outgrowth from, or tumour of, carti- lage), and clLondrosarcoma (a variety of sarcoma). Chondro - arthritis. — Gummatous ulceration causing removal of the articular end of a bone, and leaving but a thin membrane (representing the cartilage) over the ulcerated surface. See Syphilis {Tertiary, Bones and Joints). Chondrodystrophia Fcetaiis. See Achondroplasia ; Cretinism ; Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases {Foetal Bone Diseases, Osteogenesis Imperfecta). Chondroma.—A cartilaginous tumoui-. See Bone, Diseases of {Tumours, Chondroma) ; VOL. II Hand {Tumours); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Tumours); Neck, Region of {Solid Tumours); Parotid Gland, Disorders of {Tumours) ; Tumours {Connective Tissue Tumours, Chondro- mata). Chopart'S Operation. /See Amputa- tions {All ld(-Joint). Chorda.—A cord or cord-like structure, such as the notochord {chorda dorsalis), umbili- cal cord {chorda mnbilicaUs), the chorda tympani, and the chordae teiulinece. Chordee. — A painful erection of the penis, during which it is bent or twisted down- wards. See Penis, Surgical Affections of {Chordee); Urethra, Diseases of {Gonorrhcea in Men). ChorditiS.—Inflammation of a cord {e.g. vocal curd) or cord-like structure. Chordoma.—A tumour consisting of notochordal tissue. Chorea. Etiology . . . . . .130 Symptoms . . . . . .130 Complications . . . . .132 Prognosis . . . . . .133 Pathology . . . . . .133 Diagnosis . . . . . .134 Treatment . . . . . .134 Hereditary Adult Chorea . . .135 Chronic Progressive Chorea . .136 Electrical Chorea . . . .136 Chorea Major . . . . .136 Chorea Gravidarum . . . .137 See also Athetosis {Diagnosis); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Post-hemiplegic Chorea); Catalepsy ; Cerebellum, Affections of {Choreiform Movements); Children, Clini- cal Examination {Nervous System) ; Hysteria {Hysterical Chorea); Hypnotism (m the Treat- ment of Chm-ea); Insanity, Etiology of {Auto- toxic Agencies); Labour, Operations {Induc- tio7i); Larynx, Congenital Laryngeal Stridor; Measles {Sequelce); Mind, Education op the {Hysterical Children); NosE, Post-Nasal Ade- noid Growths ; Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia) ; Puberty {Disturbances of Health); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Nervous Sys- tem, Chorea) ; Rheumatism, Acute {Nervous Symptoms); Rheumatism in Children (C/iorea); Spasm {Paramyoclonus Multiplex, Diagnosis); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {in Chorea). The name " chorea" has unfortunately been ajiplied to a number of entirely dift'erent com- plaints, the common feature in all " choreic" diseases being the occurrence of involuntary, irregular muscular movements. Common Chorea (Chorea Minor; Sydenham's Chorea ; St. Vitus's 9