DTGESTION AND METABOLISM 375 The Motor Activity of the Stomach may be tested by several metliods. 1. Probably the best of these for practical purposes is that of Leuhe. Seven hours after the taking of a test meal similar to that of Riegel, an examination is made with the gastric sound. Under normal conditions the stomach should then be found empty; luit in cases of motor insutiicieney the amount of fluid varies according to the severity of the case. 2. The salol method of Ewald and Sievers for testing the motor efficiency of the stomach is foimded upon the fact that salol—a compound of salicylic acid with phenol—is not decomposed in acid solution, but readily undergoes decom- position in alkaline solution into phenol and a salicylate of the alkali employed. This decom- position cannot take place in the stomach ; Init occurs whenever the salol passes into the small intestine. The salicylate thus formed is al)- sorbed, and excreted in the urine as salicyluric, acid, which gives a violet colour with ferric chloride. If 1 gm. of salol be given to a healthy individual during digestion, the reaction with ferric chloride should appear in the urine after half or at most three-quarters of an hour. Delay in the appearance of the reaction indi- cates a retention of the contents of the stomach. The salol test has, however, turned out to be far from reliable. Stein has shown that salol is absorbed from the stomach itself, and that the products of its decomposition may afterwards be detected in the urine. 3. A third method—that proposed by Klem- perer—consists in introducing into the stomacli, previously freed from food residues, 100 cc. of olive oil. After two hours the gastric contents are obtained by means of the sound, the com- plete I'emoval of the oil being afterwards ensured by repeatedly washing out the stomacli with water. The oil, after being separated from the water in a separating funnel, is measured. The <liminution in quantity expresses the amount of oil which has been expelled into the intestines. Kleraperer found that under normal conditions 70-SO cc. of oil wei'e expelled into the intestines. This metliod, although of considerable scientific value, is obviously one ill suited for practical use. 4. Lastly, a siiort reference to Einhorn's electrical method for the examination of the motor activity of the stomach must suffice. For this purpose he uses an ingeniously con- trixed instrument called the gastrograph. Although indicating all movements of the gastric contents, it is chiefly of use as a recorder of those gastric movements which complete the mcclianical subdivision of the food and ensure its thorough admixture with the gastric juice. Tlic method has not so far proved of much practical utility. I'atkological vdridtionx of (/asfrir dutcstion may be divided into secretory, motor, and sensorv. The variations in secretory activity may be either in the direction of increased or of diminished activity, and may affect one or all of the constituents of the gastric juice. Whereas mider normal conditions the gastric mucosa only secretes in consequence of some stimulus, in hypersecretion it continues to act during the intervals between meals, and, in conse(|uence, the stomach is found to contain fluid even during hunger. This hypersecretion or gastro- succorrhoea may be intermittent or chronic, and is usually associated with more or less sensory disturbance. Diminished secretion of gastric juice is found, especially in atrophic conditions of tlie gastric mucosa, e.ij. in adenia ventriculi. Anomalies of secretion aftecting individual constituents of the gastric juice are usually limited to variations in the quantity of hydro- chloric acid produced, the quantity of pepsin remaining fairly constant, and \\\a.y manifest themselves as either a subacidity or a hyper- acidity of the gastric juice. The total acidity in such cases may reach values of from 100 to 150 per cent, while the acidity due to free hydrochloric acid may amount to 50 to 60 per cent. The alterations in acidity in the dift'crent pathological conditions aftecting the stomach (carcinoma, gastric catarrh) are referred to under their special headings. Diminished motor activity of the stomacli may aftect the muscular walls of the organ as a whole, e.ij. in atony of tlie stomacli, or be limited to certain parts, as in pyloric or cardiac insufficiency. Increased motility may be due to increased resistance to the expulsion of the contents as in pjdoric sti'icture, or it may lie established to compensate for secretory insutiicieney, or it may be due to irritation, as in hyperchlorhj'dria, or lastly it may be nervous in (n-igin. It may be general, as in jieristaltic unrest of the stomach and in vomiting, or it may take the form of spasmodic contractions localised to the cardiac or pyloric orifices. While digestion is normally unaccompanied by sensation, in patliological conditions the varieties of sensory disturbance that may occur are so nimierous that refei'ence must be made to the special articles on diseases of the stomach. Bile ; TJie secretion of hile takes place continuously, i in this respect diftering from the true digestive ] secretions. At the present time bile is regarded mainly as a fluid which contains certain effete products destined for excretion, some of these, however, being absorbed by the intestine after their discharge from the bile duct. Certain substances which are insoluble in such a watciy solution as urine can be dissolved and so excreted by the bile. The most important biliary constituents are formed in the liver, not