174 COLCHICUiM intervals it lessens the severity and diminishes the frequency of the seizures. It is also used in a great variety of conditions which are, or are supposed to be, of a gouty nature. It has been recommended in small doses as an addition to an aperient pill in chronic articular rheumatism. The beneficial effects of this drug probably depend on an increased excretion of toxic pro- ducts resulting from stimulation of the hepatic and intestinal functions. Cold. See Antipyretics and Antipyretic Measures {Ap2)lication of Cold); HiEMORRHAGE (Local Treatment, Cold and Hot Watet-); Hydro- pathy {Cold Pack); Medicine, Forensic (Death from Cold); Puerperium, Pathology {Para- metritis and Peritonitis, Ice-hag); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (General Etiology, Cold and Damp); Temperature (Treatment of Fever, Cold Bath). Cold Cream.—Cold cream is the U71- guentum Ai/uw Roso', an official preparation of the Oil of Rose (q-v.). Cold Pa.Ck. See Hydropathy (Packs, Cold). Cold Spots. See Physiology, Senses (Teviperature Sense). Colectomy.—Excision of a part of the colon. Sec Colon. Co I eo ptosis.—Prolapse of the vaginal walls with or without prolapse of the uterus (Gr. KoAeog, vagina, and Trroja-ts, descent). ColeorrhexiS.—Rupture of the vagina (Gr. KoAeos, vagina, and prj^i^s, rupture). ColeOSteg^nOSiS.—Narrowing or con- striction of the vagina (Gr. KoAeo?, vagina, and o-Teyi'ojcris, constriction). Coley'S Fluid. — A mixture of the streptococcus of erysipelas with bacillus pro- digiosus, grown together in the same broth, and injected in cases of malignant growth (e.g. sarcoma) when operation is impossible. See Therapeutics, Serum Therapy (Coley's Fluid); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment of (Bacterio- Therapjy). Colic. See Appendix Vermiformis (Ap- p)endicitis, Sympjtoms); Devonshire Colic; Gall- bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of (Gail- Stones) ; Gastro-Intbstinal Disorders of In- fancy (Digestion, Flatulence, and Colic); Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Movable and Floating Kidney, Pain); Liver, Diseases of (Hepatoptosis, Symptoms); Myiasis (Myiasis Intestinalis); (Esophagus (Inflammation); Pancreas, Diseases of (Cyst, Symptoms); Toxicology' (Chronic Lead Poisoning); Trades, Dangerous (Lead Poison- ing).—Under normal conditions the muscular coat of the digestive tract performs its functions of mixing and propelling food from the stomach downwards, and of finally expelling the faeces, painlessly ; but, under numerous abnormal con- ditions, its gentle, painless, and harmonious working may be roused into violent, painful, and irregular action, the symptoms of which are designated by the term colic, from the Greek KtoAoi'). Colic, as ordinarily understood, may therefore be defined as abdominal pain due to spasmodic and painful contraction of the ali- mentary musculature. Other hollow tubes or hollow organs may be the seat of similar moi'bid action, and may exhibit like symptoms, and the original term has been extended to the gall- bladder and bile-ducts (hepatic colic), and to the kidney and ureter (renal colic). But this article will deal solely with colic as occurring in the musculature of the digestive tract. Symptoms. — The essential and outstanding symptom is pain, located in the abdomen, remittent or intermittent, writhing or twisting in character, and generally relieved by pressure. Its onset may be sudden or preceded by pre- monitory uneasiness. It may be localised to a particular part of the abdomen, but if severe, its origin cannot be defined, and it is felt gen- erally over the abdomen with its maximum around the umbilicus. It is spasmodic, coming in waves, shorter or longer in duration, and rising from the level of complete absence of suffering, or of more or less persistent uneasiness. It varies in severity from bearable griping to agonising spasm, and in duration from a few minutes to several days. As in all abdominal pain, the patient intuitively flexes the trunk and draws up the limbs, but, as pressure gener- ally relieves rather tlian aggravates his suffer- ing, he indulges the desire to move or roll about, at the same time applying pressure in various ways, such as rubbing by hand or leaning against a pillow. Where there is considerable bowel distension or associated inflammation, pressure aggravates the suffering. The pain is of a peculiarly depressing character, the face is pale and indicative of suffering, the skin is cool and possibly moist, the pulse is normal, or weakened and slowed rather than quickened, the tempera- ture is not raised, the bowels may be seen, felt, and heard to be in excited peristalsis, vomiting may or may not be present, the bowels may be obstinately confined, or enabled sooner or later to expel their gaseous or other contents with gratifying relief to the distressing symptoms. If the cause of the colic be towards the anus the pain is associated with a bearing down and expulsive desire. Vomited matters are at first from the stomach, but eventually, when the cause of the colic is bowel obstruction, they are from the bowels. The abdomen may be retracted or distended according to the amount and character of the bowel contents, and the condition of the intestinal and abdominal