EAR: ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE MIDDLE EAR 484 with in early life and in those whose occupation necessitates exposure. Heredity, the gouty, rheumatic, tuberculous, and strumous diatheses, and previous attacks, seem to be predisposing causes. It may result from local conditions affecting the ear primaiily, but in far the larger number of cases it spreads by contiguity from local or general conditions affecting the nose and naso-pharynx. Among the conditions affecting the ear directly we may mention injury to the mem- brane from a blow on the ear, or from unskilful efforts with instruments to remove plugs of wax and foreign bodies, or from the attempt to relieve irritation in the meatus by means of pins, etc., or from the instillation of very hot lotions, caustics, and corrosive drugs suggested by kind but injudicious friends. The mischief may be started by a cold wind blowing on the ear during a railway journey or while driving, or by water getting into the meatus during ■washing or sea-bathing. Reflex irritation due to the eruption of teeth in children, or when the teeth are diseased, has sometimes a large share in producing and keeping up attacks of middle ear catarrh. Among the less frequent causes of otitis may be mentioned fracture thi-ough the temporal bone, intra-tympanic hfemorrhage in Bright's disease, and mj'cosis and furunculosis of the external nieatus {vide p. 473). By far the larger number of cases, how- ever, are due to morbid conditions of the nose and naso-pharynx. Any of the various condi- tions which tend to cause and keep up a catarrh of the naso-pharynx, such as an ordinary coryza, hypertrophied tonsils, adenoid vegetations, in- fluenza, diphtheria, mumps, and man}' others, frequently prove to be the exciting cause of an otitis media. The rhinitis associated with the exanthemata often tends to affect the middle ear, and scarlet fever and measles are specially prone to produce acute purulent otitis. Next to these two diseases adenoid vegetations prob- ably account for the largest number of the less severe attacks. When patients are desci-ibed as being specially liable to attacks of middle ear catarrh, it does not follow that there is some hereditary or inherent condition in the ear to account for this tendency, but it will almost invariably be found, on in- vestigation, that some morbid state of the nasal or pharyngeal mucous membrane exists, the removal of which will go far to prevent the recurrence of the attacks. Various micro-organisms have been discovered in the discharge coming from the ear, and there can be little doubt that they have an important influence in causing and maintaining the dis- eased condition. The organisms chiefly met with, according to the observations of Lowen- berg, Zaufal, Moos, and Netter, are the follow- ing :—(1) the streptococcus pyogenes; (2) the staphylococcus pyogenes ; (3) the pneumococcus of Friinkel; (4) the pneumo-bacillus of Fried- lander ; and (5) the tubercle bacillus. Orne Green records the results of a bacteriological examination made of the first drop of pus obtained after paracentesis in 101 cases of acute suppuration of the tympanum. Pure cultures were obtained in 73, showing staphylo- coccus in 36, streptococcus in 19, pneumococcus in 10, bacillus diphtheriEe in 2, and bacillus pyocyaneus in 3 cases. There were also 28 cases of mixed infections. Investigations made by Leutert tend to show that cases of otitis media with the pneumococcus are generally milder than those associated with the streptococcus. In the former the duration of suppuration was shorter, the febrile reaction less marked, and the injury to bone, if present, was less pronounced. All the same, he found subdural abscess more frequently with the pneumococcus than with the streptococcus. He attempts to explain this by supposing that the smaller destruction of bone caused by the former renders external drainage more difficult. The attacks of otitis with the sti'eptococcus are apt to be more virulent, with greater damage to bone. When sinus thrombosis occurs it is almost always associated with this organism. According to Green, who has tabulated cultures made from 144 cases of diseased mas- toids, we may find any of the common varieties of microbe in mastoiditis, but the staphylococcus is more frequent than the streptococcus. He does not believe that the special organism is of much importance in this disease, and thinks that vastly more depends on the histological and anatomical peculiarities of the bone than on the variety of the microbe. Zaufal has shown that the normal tympanum in rabbits contains germs, and that organisms are abundant in the naso-pharynx. It is therefore more than likely that, under circumstances favourable to the growth and development of microbes, the middle ear is infected through the Eustachian canal, although it is probable that frequently the organism gains access through a perforated membrane. These interesting investigations, however, do not at present give us much assist- ance in the classification of, or the practical treatment of our cases, but it may be hoped that further knowledge may lead to something of value, at least as to the treatment and prognosis of protracted cases. In addition to the causes tending to an extension of catarrh through the Eustachian canal, it must be remembered that ear disease may be set up by Politzer's bag or the catheter, used in an improper way or under unsuitable circumstances, and without doubt acute otitis results not infrequently from the careless use of the nasal douche. Fluid may also be forced up the Eustachian tube when diving or swim- ming, or may pass directly into the middle ear if there be an old perforation.