436 DWARFISM preceded, the recommencement of growth at the age of thirty years. Joseph Boruwlaski was born in Polish Galicia in 1739, and he died at Durham in 1837, at the great age of ninety- eight ; he was never more than 39 inches in height; and he had a sister who measured 2 feet 4 inches, a brother who measured 41 inches, and another brother whose height was 6 feet 4 inches. This association of micro- somia with macrosoraia in the same family history is not uncommon. Some dwarfs have been above the average size at birth; this was the case with the famous "General Tom Thumb." In an observation reported by Clauder each alternate child in a family of eight was a dwarf. Many causes of microsomia have been alleged, among which may be named poor or bad food, the infectious fevers, injuries (especially of the head), chronic hydrocephalus, idiocy, foetal rickets, alcoholism of the parents, and consan- guinity or advanced age of the parents. Of course, if an antenatal cause be admitted, it must be supposed to remain latent for some time in the cases in which the dwarfism does not appear until later childhood. Anomalies in development (malformations) are not uncommonly associated with dwarfism. Thus, dentition may be incomplete or retarded ; the general ossification of the skeleton may be tardy; the skin may be hairless and the fingers almost nailless ; the reproductive organs may be defective, as shown by sterility and want of sexual instinct in both sexes, by cryptorchidy in the male, and by absence of pubic hair and delayed menstruation or oligomenorrhcea in the female; and the mental powers may be of a low order, pointing to incomplete development of the higher nerve centres. Of course, exceptions to all these statements exist: some dwarfs, for instance, have been perfectly well formed; some have been able to have children, generally of normal size; some have lived to a good age; and some have had fair intellectual powers. It is evident, therefore, that the two processes which are going on side by side in antenatal life as well as in infancy (I refer to development and growth) do not necessarily fail together or succeed together. In other words, an infant may grow to its proper size although it is mal- formed or defective, and a child may be perfectly formed but a dwarf in size. At the same time it is not uncommon to note that both growth and development have suffered, and that the child that is stunted in size shows also defects in development (malformations) and in functional activity. A possible explanation of these irregularities may be found in the date when the arresting cause (whatever it may be) comes into action; for if it be effective in antenatal life it will more probably affect both development (which is then active) and growth, whereas if it only begin to show itself in childhood (when the greatest number of the developmental processes are completed) it will delay or stop growth alone. What this arresting cause is has not yet been discovered; but it may be one or many, and it may be the same or (more likely) different for the diff"erent epochs of life (embryonic, foetal, infantile, adolescent). Possibly an in- ternal secretion ma,y be the root - cause of dwarfism; perhaps the thymus, the thyroid, the ovaries and testicles, and the pituitary body may all at one time or another in life preside over the processes of growth. Dwelling's.—in sanitary law a dwelling- house means " any inhabited building, and includes any yard, garden, out-houses, and appurtenances belonging thereto, or usually enjoyed therewith, and includes the site of the dwelling-house so defined " (Housing of the Working Classes Act, 1890). See Cellars; Curtilage ; Disinfection ; Sewage and Drain- age ; Ventilation and Warming ; etc. Dycld.—A bivalent element {e.g. calcium) or radicle {e.g. SO^) in chemical nomenclature. Dyaster Stagre. See Physiology, The Cell (Mitosis). Dying' Declaration. See Medicine, Forensic (Dying Declarations). Dymal.—A non-irritating, antiseptic dust- ing-powder ; didymium salicylate. Dynamite. *S'eeNitroglycerine.—Dyna- mite is a mixture of nitroglycerine (7 5 per cent) and an infusorial earth or kieselguhr (25 per cent); the latter serves as an inert base, being composed chiefly of the fossil remains of diatoms. Another form of dynamite is that in which the nitroglycerine is combined with a combustible or explosive base, such as gun - cotton or potassium nitrate. Both the explosion and burning of dynamite give rise to obnoxious fumes which may cause poisoning; it also causes toxicological effects if swallowed. See Trades, Dangerous (Risks attending the Manu- facture and Use of Explosives). Dynamometer.—An instrument for measuring the power of muscular contractions, especially the strength of a hand - grasp; by means of it a difference in the power of the muscles of the opposite sides of the body can be detected, e.g. in hemiplegia. Dyne. — The absolute unit of force in dynamics; defined as the force which, acting on a mass of one gramme, will propel it with a velocity of one centimetre in one second. DyS-.—In compound words dys- (Gr. Suo--, meaning bad, ill, or hard) "destroys the good sense of the word or increases its bad sense " thus dysarthria means defective articulation in speaking, dysarthrosis means a defective or dis- located joint, dyshulia means morbid impair-