BROAD LIGAMENT, DISEASES OF THE 4 force apart the layers of the mesometrium as well; papillomatous cysts especially tend to do so. Ovarian cysts occasionally burrow into the mesometrium alone, then, if they grow forwards, the short anterior fold {.see Sketch) is soon passed, and the tumour comes in contact with the an- terior pelvic walls and the abdominal parietes, stripping up the parietal peritoneum. Ovarian cysts blu'rowing backwards may ultimately be- come retro-peritoneal. Fibro-myoma of the mesometrium often spares the mesosalpinx even when the tumour attains a great bulk. A true uterine " fibroid " may burrow into the meso- metrium alone, or into the mesosalpinx as well. Inflammation.— The mesosalpinx is always more or less affected in perimetritis, adhering to adjacent parts. Sometimes its posterior surface becomes firmly attached to a small ovarian cyst which stretches it as it grows. This gives an appearance as though the tumour lay between the folds of the mesosalpinx, especially when in- flammatoiy deposit on the surface of the cyst is taken for part of the imaginary capsule. An inflamed and dilated Fallopian tvibe opens up the mesosalpinx till the former comes in contact with the ovary. An inflamed and thickened mesosalpinx does not always bear the ligature well. This is one reason why the pedicle, after the removal of an inflamed tube and ovary, sometimes inflames, the patient suffering as much as before the operation. Inflammation of the mesometrium is the chief feature in pelvic cellulitis (parametritis). Whilst the mesosalpinx contains very little connective tissue, a thick wedge of that tissue enters the lower and outer limits of the mesometrium where the folds part, becoming thinned till it ends at about the level of the ovary. It contains fat and muscular fibre. When inflamed it becomes very firm, owing to infiltration with serum. On vaginal exploration the base of the inflamed ligament feels like a metal bar running across the lateral fornix from the bony pelvis to the cervix uteri. The ureter runs along the base of the mesometrium, hence it may be obstructed by the inflammatory exudation. This is most usual when the inflammation develops around a cancerous growth advancing from the uterus ; the malignant deposit itself may produce the same effect. The symptoms and course of yjelvic cellulitis are described elsewhere {see " Pelvis "). The chief feature of importance in relation to this disease as affecting the broad ligament is the direction in which the inflammatory' process may pass from the connective tissue of the meso- metrium along similar tissue beyond its limits. It may advance forwards and upwards. This is the i;sual course, for the anterior fold of the broad ligament does not pass so low down as the posterior {see Sketch). Hence the serous or purulent exudation, in close relation, from the first, with the connective tissiie in the forepart of the pelvis, rises in front of the peritoneum till it comes to lie behind the abdominal walls in the groin. It sometimes tracks along the round ligament into the inguinal canal. The exudation may pass backwards, sometimes creep- ing out of the great sciatic notch. Less fre- quently it tracks outwards, passing along the connective tissue of the side of the pelvic cavity, and thence often upwards into the iliac fossa. The exudation sometimes passes upwards and outwards along the infundibulo-pelvic ligament, the serous fold made by the ovarian vessels as they pass fi'om the pelvic brim into the folds of the broad ligament. The connective tissue around the vessels is loose and abundant. In cellulitis, after ovariotomy and allied operations, the infundibulo-pelvic ligament is a great high- way for septic exudations, which may reach the loin. The lateral relations of the broad liga- ment explain the close association observed in many cases between pelvic cellulitis or pelvic peritonitis and inflammation in the neighbour- hood of the vermiform appendix, so that it is not always clear which was the primary disease. Abscess.—Pelvic abscess is specially described under its proper heading. The relations of the connective tissue of the broad ligament to the same tissue in its neighbourhood, above noted, should always be remembered when this aff'ection is suspected. Abscess of the broad ligament is usually a result of pelvic cellulitis, including the form which appears after the removal of a tumour of the ovary or of old inflamed append- ages, when the ligature is septic or the ligatured tissues unhealthy. Abscess of the broad liga- ment may also be due to infection of a htema- toma, tumour, or foetal sac. Hoematoma. — This subject is also specially treated under "Pelvis" {q.'»-). Here we need only say that in ovariotomy the pedicle needle sometimes wounds a vein, and a hpematoma forms in the mesometrium. As a rule this accident is speedily manifested before the opera- tion is ended, a tense, livid blue tumour appear- ing below the ligature-groove. If the blood escapes slowly liut steadily it may cause the ligature to yield in a few hours, or the hfema-