382 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM system on the glycogenic formation and trans- formation in the liver is probably a vaso-motor one. Thus, after puncture of the floor of the fourth ventricle, poisoning with nitrate of amyl, curari, etc., the resultant glycosuria is due to an increased transformation of glycogen into glucose. The influence of the pancreas on the metabolism of glucose has already been referred to. Absorption and Metabolism of Fats.—This can take place to some extent even when no pancreatic juice or bile is allowed to act on the chyme; but both of these are of great import- ance in aiding absorption. In many cases the mixed contents of the small intestine are acid in reaction (as in dogs), and yet emulsificatiou of the fats can take place if the pancreatic juice have free access. It is not necessary that there should be sufficient alkali present to neutralise all the fatty acids, because not only is a small amount of soluble soap able to emulsify a fairly large quantity of these acids, but in addition the salts of the bile acids can easily dissolve them and so aid absorption. Soaps and fatty acids pass partly into the blood capillaries, partly into the lymphatics, but they are trans- formed into fats during their passage through the intestinal mucosa, for after they have been given in the food, the lymph in the thoracic duct contains only fats. There is no reason for believing at present that the absorption of fats takes place entirely, or even most largely, in the form of solutions of soaps, and not as an emulsion of soaps, free fatty acids, and fats. After absorption of fat, the cytoplasm of the columnar cells of the intestinal mucosa is found crowded with fat globules, while none are to be seen in the striated hem. This is no proof, however, that the fat has not passed through in the form of an emulsion, although it has been regarded as supporting the view that the fats are absorbed in the form of solutions of the soaps, and that the latter undergo in the columnar cells syn- thesis with glycerine to foi'm fats. Undoubtedly the contraction of the smooth muscular strands in the villi aids at least the passage of the chyle through the lacteals. Fats of low-melting point are more rapidly and completely absorbed than those which melt at a higher temperature. In many cases when fats foreign to the animal experimented vipon are absorbed, they are de- posited unaltered in the tissues; but in man the absorbed fats are not necessarily deposited in the form in which they were taken in, being usually transformed into the ordinary mixed fats of the tissues. There can be no doubt that the synthesis of fatty acids and glycerine into fats can and does take place in the columnar cells of the intestinal mucosa : but, as has already been said, this does not exclude the other method of fat absorption—emulsificatiou. Carbohydrates and proteids may also act as sources of fat, but the proof of this cannot be given in this article (see " Diet"). The fats are deposited in various parts of the body; while a large amount, by oxidation to carbonic acid and water, sets free energy which may take the form of either work or heat. The nature of fatty degenerations and infiltrations of organs will be referred to under the special pathological headings. Absorption of Putrefaction Products.—The products of putrefaction formed in the lower parts of the intestinal canal may also be ab- sorbed. This is especially noticeable in cases of intestinal obstruction, when phenol, indol, skatol, etc., are absorbed, oxidised in the tissues, and excreted in combination with sulphuric acid. Intestinal Movements. — It is exceedingly difficult to study the normal peristaltic move- ments of the small and large intestines, because on exposing them to the air there is a marked diminution in the peristalsis. They have been usually studied when the intestines have been surrounded by a warm saline solution. One can then perceive that peristalsis is more mai'ked in the small than in the large intestine, and that it takes place noi'mally in the direction towards the anus, the movements consisting of ring-like contractions passing along in the form of waves. The correct direction is maintained by the transverse folds of the intestinal mucosa acting as valves, the well-marked fold at the place of entrance of the small intestine into the caecum preventing regurgitation. Antiperi- staltic movements, such as occur in feecal vomit- ing, are not to be seen under normal conditions. The fact that this peristalsis proceeds in one direction only, and that slowly, proves that it must be under the influence of the nervous system, and yet it persists after section of the mesenteric nerves, being also visible in separated intestinal loops. It is probable, therefore, that there are local centres present in the intestinal wall. The nerves passing to the intestine act as regulators of the movement, probably affect- ing these local centres. Thus stimulation of the vagus increases the rapidity or amplitude of the contractions, while splanchnic stimulation produces slowing of the peristalsis. If indiffer- ent fluids be circulated through the vessels of a detached loop of intestine, it remains at rest; but, whenever the circulation stops, the loop shows periodic contractions. The explanation of this is that in the intestinal wall substances are formed which act as excitants to contrac- tion, and hence their removal produces rest. The contraction of intestinal blood-vessels pro- duced by splanchnic stimulation probably causes diminished peristalsis from the diminution in the amount of circulating blood which contains the stimulating substances. There is probably a reflex nervous mechanism between stomach and duo- denum, because, shortly before the pylorus opens, the duodenum, which was previously at rest,