7 BROMOPYRIN Bromopyrin.—A mixture of untipyrinc, caffeine, and bromide of sodium. Broiriorcin.—A bromum substitution compound of orcin, which is a homologue of resorein. Bromum. See also Anaesthesia {Brom- ide of Efkyl); Jjuumism; Convulsions, Infantile; Drug Eruptions {Bromine); Epilepsy ; Hyp- notics ; Pharmacology ; etc. — The action of bromine is simihxr to that of chlorine and iodine. It is rarely used in medicine, and is of import- ance solely as the source of the bromides. 1. Potassii Bromidum is composed of colourless glassy cubes, freely soluble in water. Dose— 5-30 grs. 2. Sodii Bromidum is a powder made up of small white cubic crystals, soluble 1 in 2 of water. Dose—-5-30 grs. 3. Ammonii Brom- idum consists of small colourless cubic crystals, soluble 1 in 1| of water. Dose—5-30 grs. 4. Acidum, Hydrohroinicum DiluUnn, a colourless li(iuid prepared from potassium bromide. Dose —15-60 ra. Bromides are administered when- ever it is wished to diminish reflex excitability of the nervous system. Eormerly they were applied in strong solution directly in pharyngeal diseases associated with spasm, and before mak- ing a laiyngeal exa.mination ; but cocaine has taken their place for these purposes. In nerv- ous diseases, accompanied )>y convulsions, their action is almost specific. For epilepsj', gradu- ally increasing doses of potassium l)romide should be given until a dose is reached which gives the maximum benefit, and then the ad- ministration may be continued indefinitely. A good way is to give the whole daily amount in one dose at bedtime. Sometimes as much as 2 drs. per day may be required, but no fixed rule as to dosage can be laid down. When large doses iiave to be given it is well to order a mixture of the three bromides. In most cases a diminution of the numlicr of seizures is all that is achieved ; but should the fits disappear altogether the use of the bromide must be continued for months in the hope that a cure may be effected. Bromides have little effect on petit mal. In tetanus very large doses are required if any good is to result —say 60 grs. every two hours. In delirium tremens bromide is invaluable, and is usually administered in conjunction with chloral hydrate. In cases of sleeplessness due to worry, overwork, or climacteric disturbances a small dose of a bromide is a most efficient hypnotic ; but it is of little service if the insomnia be caused by pain or organic disease. " Bromidia," a pro- prietary mixture consisting of potassimn brom- ide, chloral, cannabis indica, and hyoscyamus, is much used as a hypnotic. In the severe iieadaches of migraine, bromides may be the only drugs capable of affording relief; and they are also useful in some forms of neuralgia. In chil- dren they arc nuioh used for convulsions of a reflex nature; but they are contra-indicated in chorea, unless the movements are excessively violent, or are associated with sleeplessness or nocturnal restlessness. Anmionium bromide is useful in whooping-cough. Bromides are recom- mended for jjalpitation, especially when due to functional disorders of the heart. They are in- dicated in cases of incontinence of urine, the result of spasmodic contraction of the bladder. They are also very efficient anaphrodisiacs. Acidnm Ilydrohromicvm Dilutum is similar in action to the bromides, but cannot be taken i over such a long period, on account of the dis- I turbance of digestion caused by the acid. It has been strongly advocated for trifling heart disorders associated witii jDalpitation and uneasi- ness, and is said to relieve noises in tlie ears in some cases. Bromides of calcium, lithium, and strontium have been used at various times, but they have no real advantages over the official salts. Bronchadenitis.—Inflammation of the bronchial glands. See Bronchi, Br(_)NCHIAl Glands. i Bronchi, Diseases of.—Tiie affec tions of the bronchi and associated glands are described in the following articles :— i 1. Bronchial Glands. 2. Broncliitis (for Capillary Bronchitis see " i'neumonia 3. Bronchiectasis. 4. New Growths. See "Lungs" and " Mediastiiunn." Bronchial Glands Anatomy ...... 7 Morbid Anatomy and Patholocv . . 8 Symptoms and Physical Signs . . 9 Diagnosis . . . . . .10 Treat.ment . . . . . .11 See also Cough {Clinical Varieties) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Pathological Anatfjmy); Lungs, Abscess of ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology ; Liver {Abscess of); Mediastinum. jInatomy. — The glands may be classified into three main groups (Barety) :— (i.) Those around the lower end of the tracliea and the main bronchi—the peri-tracheo-lnonchial group. (ii.) Those between the main Ijronchi, cljiefly beneath them — the inter - tracheo - broncliial group. (iii.) Those between the divisions of tlie bronchi—the inter-bronchial group. These three groujjs are in connection with— (i.) The superficial and deep lymphatics of the lungs; (ii.) The lymphatics of the visceral pleura : (iii.) Some of the lymphatics of the ce.sophagus. These lymphatics communicate freely.