DIABETES INSIPIDUS 321 result from periplicrul irritation; au abwcess of the external auditory meatus has been known to produce marked polyuria, which subsided on evacuation, to return when the free discharge of pus was obstructed, to disappear again as healing took place. In animals section of the great splanchnic nerve is followed by persistent hypersecretion from the kidney on the same side. In man Schapiro has described degeneration and atrophy of the ganglionic cells of the semi-lunar ganglia, and degeneration and destruction of the axis cylinders of the great splanchnic nerve in diabetes insipidus. Various lesions of the brain may be present, as tumours, tubercle, degenera- tion and softening following arterial changes. There is no characteristic lesion in the kidneys, though in long-standing cases secondary changes may take place as the result of the prolonged excessive secretion of urine. Treatment. — The treatment of diabetes in- sipidus, founded as it is upon an imperfect pathology, is not entirely satisfactory. When a definite dyscrasia exists, such as tuberculosis or syphilis, as a causal factor, treatment must be directed to its amelioration by suitable remedies. Apart from this, treatment by drugs has, for the most part, been directed to influencing the condition through the nervous system. Valerian was advocated by Trousseau in enormous doses of 10 grms. per diem, progressively increasing to 30 grms. Given thus it inevitably results in gastric disturbance. Smaller doses of 5SS. to 5]. of the tincture thrice daily, with camphor water or spirits of chloroform to disguise the taste, produce a decided, but imfortxniately but passing impi-ovement, and any effort at increased dosage is resented by the stomach. Ergot has a decided ameliorating influence, and may be suitably prescribed as ergotin in 2-grain doses in pill with extract of belladonna, given every six hours, the effects being watched lest ergotism be produced. Nitroglycerine, again, has pro- duced decided benefit in a number of cases. Antipyrin may prove useful at night as a sedative, and temporarily diminishing the excretion of urine, and thus permitting sleep. Salts of iron, arsenic, zinc, stryclmia, belladonna, nitrate of silver, carbolic acid, and the bromides have all been prescribed with varying success. Drugs, in fact, may diminish the excessive secretion of urine for a time, and have a beneficial effect on the general health; they do not cure the disease. Ergot, belladonna, andl nitroglycerine are most to be recommended. Electricity has had a marvellous curative effect in some in- stances. It may be applied to the medulla, the positive pole of the galvanic current being- applied to the back of the neck by a large electrode, the negative pole, suitably insxilated to within a quarter of an inch of its extremity, being passed along the floor of the nostril to reach the spine. The strength of the current should be gradually increased from one to VOL. II five milleampei-es, the duration of the applica- tion from one to five minutes. The negative pole may be applied to the epigastric region instead of to the posterior wall of the naso- pharynx. Diet and general hygienic measures are of great moment in the treatment of the disease. It is unnecessai'y and cruel to needlessly restrict the amount of fluid drunk, and only leads to deterioration in the general health. The daily consumption of fluid should be ascertained, and a gradual diminution advised till it is found that the urinary excretion is no longer influenced. Thirst should be alleviated with ice, acidulated drinks, and the use of pilocarpine in small doses. Alcohol, aerated waters, potash water, tea, and coffee must be avoided on accoimt of their diuretic acid. Food should be nutritious and easily digested. There is no objection to carbo- hydrates, nor to proteid food within the limits of the patient's powers of digestion. If restric- tion be placed upon the amount of food a care- ful watch must be kept upon the patient's weight. It is better that food should be taken frequently in smaller quantity than in large quantities at longer intervals. Little salt must be taken in the food. In the later stages, when anorexia supervenes, the fluids drunk should be nutritious, as milk, cocoa, whey, light broth. General hygiene is of importance — gentle exercise, a bracing climate, and, as the tempera- ture is subnormal, warm clothing are all im- portant. In the later stages carefully regulated massage is of great use. Great care should be taken of the skin, Avhich becomes atrophic and unhealthy. Dryness may be relieved by steam or warm water baths. Gentle friction aids nutrition. Intercurrent affections must be treated on general principles. Constipation is frequently troublesome; drastic and irritant purgatives must be avoided from their liability to set up severe diarrhanx. Collection of ffeces occurs in the lower bowel, and is best treated by large enemata, massage to the abdomen, aloin. y\j- grain in pill after meals, or fluid extract of cascara sagrada in half-drachm doses at night. Diabetes MeSHtus. DEFixrnuN . . . . . .321 Physiological CoNsiDErw\Tioxs . . 322 etrology and etiological relations . 322 Symptomatology 32-5 Syjiptoms, Complications, and Patho- logical Changes in connection with the various systems .... 327 Prognosis ..... . 331 Pathological Anatomy .... 332 Pathogenesis ..... 332 Treatment 333 Diabetes Mellitus is a disease in which grape- sugar is persistently excreted in the urine. The 21