256 CRYOSCOPY of from - 4° C. to 1° C. or thereby; it must be carefully calibrated and requires to be standard- ised from time to time with pure distilled water which freezes at zero. The accuracy of its scale may be verified by a 1 per cent solution of pure sodium chloride, which freezes at - 589° C. Any eri'ors detected must be allowed for in subsequently using the instrument. In making an observation the outer vessel is filled with a freezing mixture, which should not be too cold, - 3° being a desirable temperature. Five or ten cc. of the fluid to be examined is now placed in the tube, which is then introduced into the freezing mixture. The fluid must be kept in gentle, constant motion during the observation. The mercury will be seen to sink steadily below the freezing-point, and then suddenly rises to a definite point at which it remains stationary. This is read off as the freezing-point. Crystals of ice begin to form, and the fluid eventually becomes solid, where- upon the thermometer falls again. The whole manipulation is one of some delicacy, and a number of precautions, as well as a certain amount of practice, are required to ensure reliable results. The bulb of the ther- mometer must be completely submerged without coming in contact with the tube. In stirring the fluid splashing must be avoided. For various reasons excessive cooling vitiates the results, hence the freezing mixture should not have a temperature lower than that mentioned. Excessive cooling may also be prevented by introducing a minute crystal of ice through the tube (d) as soon as the temperature falls below zero; this accelerates fi'eezing without diluting the fluid, as, of course, the ice introduced cannot melt at below 0°. The freezing-point of human blood is extremely constant in health, lying between — 55° and - 57" C. It is customary to express this by the symbol 8, the minus sign being omitted. The normal average freezing-point of the blood is written 8-56. To denote the freezing-point of the urine A is employed. Cryoicopy of the blood is chiefly of importance as a gauge of the fiuictional activity of the kidneys. It has the disadvantage that a fairly large quantity—10 to 20 cc.—is required. In practice the osmotic pressure of the serum may be regarded as equal to that of the whole blood, hence the blood is allowed to coagulate and the serum alone is employed. A slight admixture of corpuscles is of no moment. So constant is the freezing-point in health that variations of •01--02° are pathological. Thus 8 = -58 or -59 points to retention of molecules, while in some cases of urtemia 8 = -65 or '7. In conditions of asphyxia the value of 8 is also raised, but falls to normal as soon as the blood is properly oxygenated. Putting this aside it may be said that a rise in the value 8 is a sign of renal inadequacy, and contra-indicates surgical inter- ference in kidney lesions. The information which cryoscopy of the blood affords in other directions is of minor import. In pregnancy 8 has a low value, rising to normal after delivery as the osmotic pressure of the blood returns. In hydrtemic conditions generally the freezing-point is high; in diabetes it is low, from concentration of the blood. It is possible that cryoscopy may yield forensic evidence of value, since in death from drowning 8 tends to approach the freezing-point of the fluid in which the body is immersed. Cryoscopy of the Urine.—The chief molecules influencing the freezing-point are those which are most abundantly present, viz. urea and sodium chloride. As dissociation of the latter takes place after the urine leaves the kidney the concentration of the urine cannot be taken as an exact measure of the osmotic energy of the organ. From the simple fact that A varies widely in health, inferences must be drawn with caution, and as it is practically impossible to obtain the urine from each kidney separately for anything