EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUEL.E 508 with strips of iodoform gauze. Its proximal end should also be scraped and a stream of warm carbolic lotion (1-40) syringed along its course until it flows freely through the divided end of the jugular vein in the neck. Antiseptic dress- ings are then to be applied in the usual way. The packing within the sinus should be allowed to remain in situ for five or six days, and then should be carefully removed. If necessary the sinus may be repacked. Septic Encephalitis.—As has already been mentioned, the brain tissue in the neighbour- hood of the suppurating focus may itself become inflamed, as is evidenced by oedematous swelling, softening, diff'use suppuration, and increase of intracranial tension. Treatment consists in eradicating where possible the primary cause, in treating the secondary focus of suppuration within the cranium, in antiseptically cleansing the sup- purating cerebral surface, and in providing free drainage. Middle Ear : Chronic Non - Suppurative Disease. Introductory ..... 508 HYrERTROPHic Catarrh .... 508 (a) Chronic Eustachian Catarrh . . 509 (6) Chronic Catarrh in Middle Ear Tract 510 1. Stage of Engorgement . . 510 2. Stages of Proliferation and Contraction . . . .511 3. Cicatricial or Post-Catarrhal Stage 512 (c) Operative Measures . . .513 Atrophic Catarrh . . . .514 Changes produced by Variations in Pressure ..... 516 Changes produced by Deficient Blood- Supply ...... 516 Under this title are described all cases of deafness due to middle ear disease, in which the membrana tympani is intact. Although great advances have of late years been made in separating the diff'erent forms, we are as yet iniable, in many instances, to draw hard and fast lines between them, thus render- ing description extremely difficult and often bewildering. The chief difficulty experienced in studying them is, that the opportunity for pathological examination, in their early stages especially, is rarely obtained. In adopting the following classification it must be understood that one form often appears to exist with another, and that it must be accepted tentatively for the pui-pose of descrip- tion only : — A. Hypertrophic Catarrh. B. Atrophic Catarrh. C. Changes due to variations in pressure. D. Changes due to deficient blood-supply. Of the two chief forms the hypertrophic originates in infancy and childhood, both sexes being equally liable, the ultimate results being seen in later life. Adenoids are almost entirely responsible for the condition. The atrophic begins insidiously in young adult and early middle life, although it is occasionally met with much earlier. Young women are the chief sufferers. The symptoms of both forms in their later stages are closely similar, but, in unmixed cases, the history and signs are widely different; in the hypertrophic, definite changes are present in the membrane with Eustachian narrowing and local and general signs of past or present nasal obstruction ; in the atrophic, on the other hand, little or no gross change is observed in the membrane, there is no Eustachian obstruction, and no apparent cause in the nose or naso- pharynx. A consideration of this subject indi- cates the great importance of due attention being paid to the condition of tlie upper respira- tory passages in early life. A. Hypertrophic Catarrh.—This is a dis- ease which has its origin principally in early life, having for its chief characteristics, deafness associated with definite changes in the mem- brana tympani, and some pathological condition in tlie nose or naso-jaharynx. Causation.—Tlie causes must be any con- dition which will— (1) Predispose to attacks of acute catarrh. (2) Tend to make acute catarrh become chronic. (3) Maintain a chronic catarrh. These causes may be local or general; the local condition above all others is chronic hypertrophy of the naso-pharyngeal tonsil (adenoids), a disease chiefly of childhood and early life, althoTigh not uncommon in middle life, and occasionally met with at a much later period. Hypertrophied tonsils (although often associated with adenoids), if they are present alone, will help to maintain a chronic catarrh. Other local causes are—secondary syphilis, true or false hypertrophy of the turbinal bodies; suppuration in accessory cavities of the nose ; atrophic rhinitis ; nasal polypi; irritation due to noxious fumes, tobacco, etc. The general causes are—exposure to wet and cold, anaimia, tubercle, in fact any disease which lowers the vitality of the organism, rendering infection easy, and hindering return to a normal condition. Pathology.—In considering the pathology of this disease we will consider shortly what a catarrh is, and what changes are produced by it. But before doing so, the reader may be reminded that the lining membrane of the middle ear consists of three layers :— (1) Epithelial. (2) Sub - epithelial, containing lymphatics, nerves, and, comparatively speaking, large blood-vessels; and