88 CHEST, DEFORMITIES OF Chest, Deformities of. (i.) Congenital Deformities . . 88 (ii.) Deformities due to Alterations in THE Parietes .... 88 (iii.) Deformities due to Mechanical Causes ..... 89 (iv.) Deformities due to Abnormal Con- ditions of the Thoracic Organs . 89 In describing deformities of the chest it is most convenient to consider them in relation to their causal factor. The deformity may be the result of a developmental error, or it may be acquired. If acquired, it is the result of disease of the parietes, of the thoracic organs, or from the effects of external mechanical causes. (i.) Congenital Deformities of the Chest. —Congenital deformities of the chest are com- paratively rare. Cleft sterniun results from deficient union of the visceral layers in the embryo. If the fissure be marked, ectopia cordis results. Defects of the lateral or posterior thoracic wall generally arise as the result of amniotic adhesions, and protrusion of the lung- may then take place. (ii.) Deformities due to Alterations in the Parietes.—The deformities of the spinal column produce a deformity of the thora.x, slow, pro- gressive, and at times considerable. In scoliosis or latei-al curvature of the spine, the curvature of the vertebral column modifies little by little the direction of the ribs. The curvature of the ribs is increased on the side of the vertebral convexity, diminished on the side of the verte- bral concavity, and, as a consequence, there is a protrusion of the chest on the side of the spinal convexity and a depression on the side of the concavity, and on the side of the spinal con- cavity the ribs approach each other, and may even overlap. The horizontal outline of the chest assumes an ellipsoidal form with a posterior protrusion of the ribs on the side of the scoliotic convexity, and a projection of the anterior angle of the ribs on the opposite side. The half of the thorax corresponding to the convexity is diminished in capacity ; the opposite half retains its sectional capacity, but is diminished in vertical measurement. The shoulder on the side of the scoliotic convexity is markedly elevated, the scapula is thrown out behind, its angle is elevated, and is carried out from the middle line. In a number of cases a very com- plicated deformity is produced as the result of curves of compensation in the vertebral column, but there is always a diminution in the capacity of the thorax on the side of the scoliotic con- vexity, and as a result of this the action of the heart is impeded from displacement, and in- creased work is thrown on the right side in carrying on the pulmonary circulation. Kyphosis or backward arching of the spine produces a flattening of the sides of the chest, and an increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the chest. The sternum becomes curved about its middle, and there thus results an anterior convexity or arching, more rarely an anterior concavity of the chest. The infra- clavicular depressions are exaggerated, the in- ferior angles of the scapula) project from the chest-wall in the " alar" fashion, the abdomen frequently assumes an anomalous anterior pro- jection. In Fotfs disease or angular curvature of the spine the deformity varies with the position of the spinal curve. If the curve be in the upper dorsal region the thorax is flattened from before backwards, the antero-posterior diameter of the horizontal section is diminished. When the projection is in the inferior dorsal region the thorax is flattened transversely, the lateral diameter of the horizontal section is diminished, and the outline of the section assumes a circular form. In osteomalacia the deformities of the chest are secondary to the incurvation of the spine and the softening of the ribs, and in advanced cases may be very complicated. In osteitis deformans the spine, more or less ankylosed, is inclined forwards in a dorsal lordosis. The ribs are fixed posteriorly, the chest is flattened laterally. The respiration is impeded, and is almost purely diaphragmatic. In acrmnegaly the chest is projected forwards, the antero-posterior diameter of the horizontal plane is increased, the lateral aspects flattened, and the lateral diameter diminished. The anterior projection is most marked in the lower stei-nal region, and thus the sternum lies obliquely with its anterior surface directed for- wards and upwards. The sternum is thickened, widened, and elongated. The anterior surface shows a series of grooves. The angulus Ludovici is very prominent, the xiphisternum is elongated and ossified. The clavicles are enlarged and the extremities thickened. The ribs are massive, so increased in bulk that their edges may be almost in contact, obliterating the intercostal spaces; the costal cartilages, broadened and ossified, form a chaplet, which may pass beyond the plane of the anterior aspect of the sternum. The spine may show a pronounced dorsal kyphosis. The whole bony framework of the chest is hypertrophied, and the respiration is impeded, being abdominal in type. In rickets the costal cartilages are abnormally firm, while the ribs are softer than natural, especially at their enlarged growing ends. The deformity is characterised by the formation of a groove running down the chest-wall almost parallel to the direction of the sternum, situated outside the junction of the rib with its cartilage, extending down to the costal margin. There is an increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the sectional outline, the sternum being carried forwards, and a diminution in the transverse diameter. In addition to this alteration in the