CIRCUMCISION 153 even when in childhood, there is a sHght stenosis of the orifice, this condition disappears natnrally with growth and snitable treatment, it is always wise to wait until complications ai'ise, and to make sure that these depend on the condition of the prepuce before interfering. Of these two views the latter certainly appears to be the more sensible. It is a safe rule, therefore, that all conditions ■of phymosis, in which retraction and reposition are difficult or impossible, and which give rise to symptoms, should be subjected to operation. The operation, whatever its nature, should be thorough, and lead to a sufficient and permanent widening of the prepucial orifice, with complete separation of adhesions, partial operations, such as insuflicient dorsal incision, fi'equently causing increased phymosis through cicatrisation. The form of operation to be preferred varies, depend- ing upon which variety of phymosis is present. A. In the atrophic form, when the prepuce is stretched over the glans, and the outer layer does not project, a dorsal incision is usually sufficient. The patient having been prepared, a general anaesthetic is administered, though local anfcs- thesia, such as that produced by the local injec- tion of cocaine, may in exceptional cases be employed. In cases where mastur])ation has been practised, it is recommended by some that no anaesthetic should be used, the moral effect of the pain being supposed to have a deterrent influence. In youths and adults a red rubber catheter shoidd be tied round the root of the penis to prevent haemorrhage ; in infants this is incon- venient and unnecessary. Elaborate disinfection of the surrounding parts may be dispensed with, the penis being drawn through a small hole in the centre of a piece of lint, sterilised or moistened with warm 1 in 40 carbolic solution, and the surrounding parts covered with sterilised towels. The penis licing fixed, and the foreskin firmly retracted with the left hand, a grooved director is carefully introduced between the prepuce and glans on the dorsal aspect, and along this the blunt blade of a small pair of scissors is passed as far back as possible, and the prepuce divided exactly in the middle line. The edges at once gape, so as to form an almost transverse incision, the inner layer being divided half-way up, the outer layer somewhat higher. By further traction on the skin of the penis, the outer layer is drawn back as far as jjossilile, and from the angle of the inner layer a small triangular flap is cut with its base at the corona, and its edges meeting at an angle of 60°, its length being about half an inch in the adult and half that in infants. Irregularities of the edges of the inner layer are removed with scissors, and the angular extremities of the first cut rounded oft'. Any bleeding points having been twisted or ligatured. Rosei's Modification. all adhesions l^etween the prepuce and glans are separated, slight ones by means of a blunt probe, those that are firmer are cleared all round and then divided close to the glans, so as to wound the inner layer of the prepuce as little as possible, and thus prevent oedema; if necessary, any larger wound of the inner layer is closed with a fine cat- gut suture. The interior of the prejiuce is then cleansed with a I to 40 carbolic lotion to re- move smegma, and the wounds sutured. This is best done with a continuous suture of fine catgiit so as not to require sub- sequent removal. One commences by adjusting the apex of the little triangular flap of the inner layer into the angle of the wound in the outer layer. This method is recommended by Roser as forming a skin edge at the apex of the incision, and thus preventing the rehealing of the original wound, with the formation of a firm, immovable cicatrix, or even a recurrence of the phymosis. Local after-treatment consists in keeping the part as much at rest and as aseptic as possible. A good method consists of dusting on a little powdered crystallised iodoform, and surround- ing the part with a narrow strip of several layers of iodoform gauze, while over this a narrow car- bolic gauze bandage is applied with moderate firmness up to the root of the penis, this acting as a kind of splint. Care must be taken to pre- vent the dressing as far as possible from becoming soiled with urine. It may be left on for several days unless the part be painful, being occasionally moistened with weak carbolic oil if it becomes wet. Another method recommended is to keep the part covered with a small strip of lint, kept moistened for the first twenty-four hours with a mild antiseptic lotion ; this is then renewed and allowed to dry on. Complete primary iniion is rai'e in children, but not uncommon in adults. Any point that remains unhealed is best treated by being smeared with a little soft boracic ointment. The patient should be kept in bed for two days, and then allowed to lie on a sofa, but he is not to move about for a week. Bromide of potash may be required in adults if erections be trouble- some. B. In the cafe of hi/pertrojiltic j'hymoxis which occurs so frequently in children, dorsal incision is unsatisfactory, leading to oedema and an inelegant result. Circumcision is, therefore, to be preferred. This operation, although it has undergone innumerable modifications, differs little in essentials from that originally per- formed and still practised as a religious rite by the Jews. A point on the foreskin about a quarter of an inch in front of the corona is grasped obliquely