260 CURETTAGE, UTERINE it is important to carry out the induction rapidly and with small loss of blood. (5) Cui-ettage may be used as a prophylactic and prelinmuiry procedure when it is intended to operate on the vaginal walls or cervix, or to do hysterectomy, in order to prevent the infection of the wounded surfaces with septic material, etc., from the uterus. The diacpiostic uses of the curette consist in the removal by this means of scrapings of uterine mucous membrane and their examination under the microscope in order to separate conditions of simple endometritis from sarcoma and carcinoma, and even from fibro-myoma of the uterus. The Technique.—-When the condition calling for curettage permits the fixing of dates before- hand, the time chosen should be the week after the menstrual period. On the day before opera- tion the patient should keep in bed, her urine should be tested, and some opening medicine should be given, to be followed by an enema next morning. The vulva and vagina should be thoroughly scrubbed out, and the operator and assistant should take the same personal pre- cautions to ensure surgical cleanliness as if a laparotomy were anticipated. The armament- arium consists of a curette, which may be either Martin's sharp curette (which closely resembles that recommended by Recamier), or an instru- ment with a hollow stem, by means of which a stream of antiseptic solution can be sent through the uterus (flushing curette); a vaginal speculum, such as Simon's ; two or more strong-toothed vol- •sellse with clips; a set of cervical dilators, such as Hegar's; three or four uterine sounds or Playfair probes armed with cotton-wool; a male catheter. No. 10 ; an intra-uterine douche and a pair of curved packing forceps; some pledgets of gauze, and iodoform gauze in strips for pack- ing. There sliould be at hand a bottle of iodised phenol for applying to the interior of the uterus •on the armed sounds, if regarded necessary; there must, of course, be an ansesthetic (chloro- form), and an antiseptic solution (perchloride of mercury, 1 in 5000). The patient, having been anfesthetised, should be placed in the lithotomy position on a table in a good light. The field of operation should be protected with sterilised towels, and the hips should be raised upon a pad of antiseptic cotton covered by mackintosh. The external genitals and vulva should be again thoroughly washed and scrubbed, and the urine drawn off". The speculum is then passed and held in position exposing cervix and vaginal vault, and the operator seizes and drags down the cervix by means of the volsellfe, one being attached to the anterior and the other to the posterior lip. If the uterus be fixed by pelvic adhesions this should not be attempted. The dilatation of the cervical canal is now begun, unless it is already sufficiently open to allow the passing of the curette ; the Hegar dilators, which have been carefully sterilised, are now slowly introduced one after another, beginning with perhaps a No. 3 and working up to a No. 13 or 14, and always allowing a minute or two to elapse between successive ones. From fifteen to twenty or even thirty minutes should be allowed for this part of the operation. Each dilator should be warmed and oiled before intro- duction. The cm'ette is now passed into the uterus and the walls systematically scraped with it (first anterior, then posterior, and so on), the scraping, which is accompanied by a creaking (" le cri uterin "), being controlled by the left hand placed over the abdomen. The contents of the curette should be floated off into a cup of clean water for future microscopic examina- tion. Next, the uterine cavity may be washed out with an antiseptic solution, and iodised phenol applied to the interior on sounds or Playfair probes if the caustic effect be desired. Finally, the uterus and vagina should be packed with a long strip of iodoform gauze, a pad of antiseptic absorbent wool should be placed over the vulva, and the whole held in position with a bandage. A hypodermic injection of ergotin (3 gr.) may be given to aid uterine contractions. The patient is then put back to bed and kept quiet. The urine may require to be drawn off", but it is often passed naturally. If the curettage has been done for siippurative conditions, the packing may need to be frequently changed ; if not, it may be allowed to remain in for two or three daj's. The patient should be kept in bed for five days or a week, for longer if the opera- tion has been performed for grave conditions; she ought to rest in bed at the next menstrual period, as the discharge is sometimes excessive then, and marital relations should not be re- sumed for eight weeks in order to permit of the complete restoration of tlie endometrium. It has to be borne in mind that curettage does not prevent future conception; it has indeed cured sterility. The Dangers of uterine curettage, if carried out with surgical cleanliness, are not many or great. Occasionally perforation of the uterine wall has occurred, especially when the operation has been done in the puerperium ; then if grave symptoms, such as haemorrhage or prolapse of intestine, appear, it may be necessary to per- form hysterectomy, but in many cases no harm has resulted. Sepsis is not a common danger nowadays when curettage is looked upon as an operation and not as a diagnostic method to be done in the consulting-room or with the patient in bed. Abortion may result through want of diagnosis of pregnancy, therefore it is always well to inquire into the menstrual history, and to make a careful bimanual examination before beginning the cervical dilatation. Complete obliteration of the uterine cavity has in a few instances followed curettage, possibly on account of a sort of siiperinvolution. Rupture of puru- lent collections in the pelvis is a danger which