DIGESTION AND METABOLISM 373 ascertained by the use of blue and red litmus papers. 2. If the i-eaction be acid, the presence or absence of free hydrochloric acid should be ascertained. There are a number of organic colouring matters, which change in colovir in the presence of free hydrochloi'ic acid even when the acid is in very dilute solution ; while they show no change of colour in presence of such strengths of organic acid solutions as are ever found in the gastric juice. The most commonly employed colouring matters are tropajolin 00 (saturated alcoholic solution), which is changed from yellow to red by free hydrochloric acid, methyl violet ('1 per cent aqueous solution), which becomes blue, and congo red, which is converted into a dark blue. The most im- portant objection to the use of all these is that albumoses and peptone when present prevent or lessen the colour change by entering into loose combination with more or less of the hydro- chloric acid. This objection does not hold good for Giinzburg's test. Glinzburg's reagent has the following composition : — Phloroglucin "2 gms., vanillin 1 gm., al)solute alcohol 30 cc. A few drops of this yellowish fluid are mixed in a porcelain basin with a very small quantity of the filtrate, and the mixture evaporated to dry- ness over the open flame. If free hydrochloric acid be present, a carmine red residue is left; but if free organic acids only be present, a slight yellowish residue is left. The simj^lest test for lactic acid is Ufl'el- mann's reagent (2 per cent aqueous phenol solution to which are added a few drops of tincture of the perchloride of iron until the fluid becomes of a deep amethyst-blue colour). This reagent should always be freshly prepared before use. It is not advisable to test for lactic acid by its means in the filtrate itself, as other substances, which share with lactic acid the power of converting the blue into a canary yellow solution, may be present in the filtrate. Amongst these may l)e mentioned glucose, phos- phates, alcohol, oxalic, citric, and tartaric acids. About 10 cc. of the filtrate are concentrated to a thin syrup by evaporation on the water bath, thoroughly extracted with ether, using about 50 cc. in all. The ethereal layer is then separ- ated, and evaporated to dryness on the water bath. The residue is dissolved in water, and tested by means of Uftelmann's reagent. For a quantitative estimation of lactic acid the extrac- tion with ether must be more thorough. At least six extractions, using 100 cc. of ether each time, should be employed. The residue after evaporation of the ether shoidd be dissolved in a known quantity of water and titrated with decinormal caustic soda solution. Each cc. of the decinormal alkali is equivalent to '0090 gms. of lactic acid. I'utyric and acetic acids are also sometimes found in very small quantity. The filtrate of the gastric contents may also be tested for the different forms of albumoses and for peptone, but as yet the examination has not obtained much practical importance. The presence of pepsin may be recognised by means of an artificial digestion. Ten cc. of the filtrate are placed in a test-tube, hydrochloric acid being added, if necessary, until congo red paper is just turned blue, and a circular disc of hard-boiled white of egg 1-5 mm. thick and 10 mm. in diameter is placed in the fluid. The disc may be cut from a hard-boiled egg by means of a Valentine's double-bladed knife and a cork-borer. The test-tul)e is then placed on a water bath at 40° C. If the quiuitity of pepsin be normal, the albumin disc should be com- pletely dissolved in a half or at most a whole hour. To test for the presence of rennin, 10 cc. of the gastric filtrate are accurately neutralised by the addition of decinormal caustic soda solution. A few drops of the neutral fluid are then added to 10 cc. of milk in a test-tube, and the mixture is placed in a water bath at 40° C. If rennin be present in sufficient quantity, coagulation of the milk should be complete in ten minutes, or at most half an hour. Quantitative estimations of the chief constituents of the gastric filtrate :— The total acidity may be estimated by the following method :—To 10 cc. of the gastric filtrate, diluted with a little water, a few drops of alcoholic solution of phenolphthalein are added. Decinormal caustic soda solution is then gradually added to the mixture placed in a beaker until a permanent pink colour just forms. It is customary to express the degree of acidity so found by a figure stating the number of cc. of decinormal caustic sodii necessary to neutralise the total acid in 100 cc. of the filtered gastric contents. If, for example, 5'7 cc. of decinormal caustic soda were recpiired to neutralise the acid in 10 cc. of the gastric filtrate, then 57 cc. would be required to neutralise the acid in 100 cc., and the acidity would be 57 per cent. Other indicators, e.g. litmus, may be used in the place of phenolphthalein. The indicator chosen should be employed for all the estima- tions of one series. This is a necessary pre- caution, as the results for the acidity obtained by the use of different indicators do not always coincide when proteids are present in the acid fluid. If, for example, a drop of phenolphthalein solution be added to a proteid one, which reacts neutral towards litmus, the addition of a small quantity of decinormal caustic soda will be found necessary before a permanent pink colour of the solution is secured. The total acidity varies within wide limits even under physiological conditions. 50-75 per cent may be given as the average. The total acidity of the gastric filtrate is