EAR, EXAMINATION OF 464 may be produced by the friction of the fingers upon it. The operator stands in front of his patient, having connected his ear to that of the patient by means of this tube; he directs him to take a sip of water and to keep it in his mouth until ordered to swallow it. He then grasps the air- bag in his right hand, inserting its nozzle just within one nostril ; with the finger and thiunb of the left hand both nostrils are firmly com- pressed. The position of the bag when held in the right hand is oblique, lying more or less in the long axis of the external nose. The patient is now directed to swallow the water—and it may be nccessaiy to say this in a loud tone,— and simultaneously with the movements of the larynx during this act the bag is sharply and forcibly squeezed. The operation may be re- peated either through the same nostril or through the opposite one, the surgeon's ear being now connected with the other ear of the patient. In Politzer's method both Eustachian tubes are inflated simultaneously. Certain modifications of this method have been suggested; thus Holt, instead of asking his patient to swallow water, directed him merely to blow out his cheeks while the mouth was kept shut. While this procedure is considered less disagreeable by many patients, the entrance of air into the tubes is not assisted as it is during the act of swallowing, the orifices being then opened by muscular action. Holt's modi- fication, however, has this advantage that no adventitious sound is produced such as accom- panies swallowing, nor is the rush of air into the tympana quite so forcible. Gruber suggested phonation of the woi'd " buck" (pronounced " hook "). Lucie directed his patient to intone the vowel sound " ah " during the act of infla- tion. In both these modifications the soft palate is raised and the naso-pharynx is thus shut off. It may be noted here that in the case of young children, where it is useless to attempt to give any instructions, the act of crying is of the greatest assistance. (3) Inflation through the Eustachian Catheter. —For this operation the examiner requires in addition to Politzer's bag and the auscultating tube, a Eustachian catheter. Silver or vulcanite instruments may be used, the former possessing this great advantage that they may be sterilised by boiling ; the greater pliability of the vulcanite instrument, however, renders it more easy to manipulate in the nose. The catheters vary in length, in the shape of their curve, and in the size of their lumen, so that various anatomical difficulties may be thus overcome. In selecting an instrument in any given case for the first time, it is perhaps advisable to make use of one which has a full curve and a medium-sized lumen. The small metal ring on the proximal end of the catheter indicates the direction of its point; before inserting the catheter the surgeon should attach the Politzer bag to the funnel-shaped proximal end and blow air through it, thus satisfying himself both as to its patency and to the absence of any liquid in its lumen. If during the previous examination of the nose the anatomical condition suggested a difficulty in the introduction of the catheter, the operation should be commenced with the aid of the speculum and artificial illumination; otherwise the patient is seated with his face turned towards the light. \st Stage.—The surgeon, facing his patient, first connects his own ear by means of the auscultating tube with that of the patient. Politzer's bag is placed under the left arm, with the large end directed forwards so that it can be readily grasped in the right hand when required. The catheter is then held lightly between the index finger and thumb of the right hand, care being taken not to conceal the metal ring in so doing. The ulnar edge of the left hand is laid upon the patient's forehead, while the tip of the nose is gently tilted up with the thumb of the same hand, thus removing the obstructing ledge at the junction of the cartilaginous and osseous floor. The beak of the catheter is now inserted point downwards, the right hand being at this stage depressed below the level of the patient's chin. As soon as the point of the instrument has slipped over the elevation of the floor just alluded to, the right hand is at once raised and the catheter brought into the horizontal position, when it is pushed backwards along the inferior meatus of the nose until the convexity of the curve is felt to come in contact with the posterior wall of the naso-pliarynx. It is very necessary that the hand should be raised as directed so that the point of the instrument is kept in con- tact with the floor of the nose; otherwise it may pass upwards into the middle meatus and there prove a source of annoyance both to the patient and surgeon. 2nd Stage.—-When the convexity of the curve is felt in contact with the posterior pharyngeal wall, the point of the catheter is next rotated inwards through a quarter of a circle, i.e. throiigh an angle of 90, as indicated by the metal ring ; the instrument is now gently with- drawn until the concavity of the curve is brought into contact with the posterior free margin of the nasal septum. .3rJ Stage.—The stem of the catheter is now lightly grasped between the finger and thumb of the left hand just beyond the tip of the nose, so as to prevent it slipping ; its point is then rotated dovmwards and outivards through half a circle and a little more, i.e. through rather more than an angle of 180, and thus it slips into the orifice of the Eustachian tube. At this stage the metal ring is directed outwards and up- wards towards the external canthus of the eye of the same side. The instrument must be maintained in this position by grasping its stem