, DISEASES OF 207 CONJUNCTIVA, iris, anterior capsular cataract, nystagmus, and squint. 1 Treatment. — Discharge must be removed frequently by means of antiseptic lotion, as cori-osive sublimate (1 : 5000), mercuric cyanide (1 : 1000), potassium permanganate (1 : 1000), naphthol (1:5000), boric acid (saturated solu- tion), or chlorine water. The application should be warm, and applied to the everted conjunctiva with a morsel of absorbent cotton-wool. A syringe should not be used for the purpose, since it is capable of doing mischief to both patient and operator. In bad cases, during the height of the attack, the baby must be tended by the nurse day and night, as cure depends chiefly upon the care with which the eyes are kept clean. Iced applications to the eyelids find favour in some (piarters, but they call for much attention, tend to confine pus, and are difficult to keej) in place. On the other hand, the palpebral conjunctiva may be painted with a 2 per cent solution of silver nitrate irrespective of the stage of the disease. The solid silver stick, whether mitigated or otherwise, cannot be recommended, as its use is almost certain to be followed by ulceration of the conjunctiva. The silver solution may be applied once a day, or even twice in severe cases. There are two other remedies that may be substituted for silver nitrate, namely, protargol (50 per cent) and largin (5-10 per cent), both of which are synthetic compounds of silver and proteid sub- stances. They are used in the same way as the silver nitrate — that is, ujjon lids everted and carefully freed from discharge. The use of one or other of the foregoing preparations should be continued until the discharge gets thin and scanty, and is found no longer to include gonococci. The remedy is then to be employed twice or thrice a week for a longer term, so as to avoid all risks of relapse. If the cornea be hazy when the case comes inider notice, physo- stigniine should be dropped into the eye three or four times a day :—Physostigmin. sulph., gr. 2 ; cocain. hydrochlor.,gr. 5; distilled water, 1 ounce. Atropine siilphate(gr. 2 to the ounce) may be used instead of physostigmine when the cornea is actually ulcerated. Should the ulcer be deep or have yellow edges, or should there be pus in the anterior chamber, then more vigorous measures must be taken without further delay. For example, an antesthetic should be given, and the ulcer either freely seared with the galvano- cautery or else thoroughly touched with the liquefied carbolic acid (B.T.) These operations may have to be repeated. (2) Purulent Ophthalmia in Older Sub- jects.—This affection differs from ophthalmia ' It must be borne in mind that forms of oplitlialnii.i otlier tlian those caused by gonococci are met with in babies. The writer has found gonococci in 66 per cent of his cases ; in the others, Weeks' bacilli, diplobacilli, pneumococci, or bacillus coli communis appeared to be the cause of the inflamuiation. neonatorum in the following respects:—(i.) It is generally confined to a single eye ; (ii.) it affects men more often than women ; (iii.) its prognosis, especially in persons over twenty years of age, is very grave. Its most frequent cause is auto-inoculation from a coexisting gonorrhoea. The virus is spread by fingers, washing materials, bed linen, or contaminated instruments or dressings ; in hot countries flies appear to be the most usual agents of infection. Symptoms.—After an incubation period aver- aging about two days, the disease declares itself by pain, photophobia, swelling of the lids, and the discharge of thin, whey-like material from the conjunctiva. The early signs are so little characteristic in the absence of a clear history of inoculation that the case may be readily mistaken for one of catarrhal in- flammation, iniless the secretion be examined with the microscope and found to contain gono- cocci. But before long the conjunctiva of the eyelids becomes markedly swollen, villous, and of a deep-red hue; that of the eyeball is infiltrated with serum, so as to form a mound of jelly-like thickening around the cornea (chemosis). Lancinating pains are common, and the eye may be extremely tender. Mean- while the abundant discharge is thick and yellow, and includes innumerable gonococci. After a few days the swelling of the lids and conjunctiva becomes less marked, and in most cases the condition slowly recedes. The pro- cess, however, when severe, almost always sets up more or less conjunctival scarring. The cornea may suffer either early or late. The earlier and much more dangerous ulcerations are to be suspected when there is much chemosis, but are generally discovered only when the swelling of the eyelids has begun to go down. A dulness is observed either in the interpalpebral zone or else in the central region of the cornea; and, while in a few instances the process may go no farther, usually the greyish area becomes converted into an actual ulcer. The latter may be clear or have a yellowish look, in which event it is likely to perforate the cornea, a staphyloma resulting. The later ulcerations may be central or peri- pheral, but suitable means will generally prevent their spread, especially when they show any tendency to vascularity. The affection, like ophthalmia neonatorum, may be associated with, or followed by, inflammation of the joints, as in a case related liy Weiss and Klingelhofter. Indeed, there is no reason why the otiier complications named on a former page should not also occur. Treatment. — In principle, the treatment of ordinary gonorrha^al ophthalmia does not difter from that of the same affection in babies. The results, unhappily, are nothing like so favour- able. The patient must be put to bed, and the pain relieved by sedatives or narcotics.