DRUG ERUPTIONS 431 the urine is in many cases the ultimate and only absolute test {vide " Urine "). Stoppage of the drug effects a rapid cure. Salici/lic Acid and Salicylates.—The cutaneous lesions produced by the external use of salicylic acid as an antiseptic have long been familiar to surgeons, and assume generally the form of ;i vesicular erythema which is always limited to the area with which the agent is brought into contact. More variable results follow its in- ternal administration, either as the acid or as the sodium salt, and erythematous, vesicular, urticarial, and haimorrhagic varieties have been recorded. The erythematous is the commonest form, and may be either localised or general. It is frequently associated with ffidema, especi- ally affecting the face (eyelids and lips) and the extremities, ;i certain amount of perspiration, and frequently a rise of temperature,—mani- festations which bear a striking resemblance to those produced by antipyrin, belladonna, and chloral, and probably associated with a similar causation, vaso-motor disturbance. No special clinical importance is attached to it, and the stoppage of the drug invariably puts an end to the associated cutaneous phenomena. The presence of the acid is easily recognised in the urine by the ferric chloride test. S'ulj}ho)ml, in doses varying from seven and a half to thirty grains (0-5-2-0 grms.), has been followed by a bright erythematous and scarla- tiniform eruption attended with intense itching, occurring chiefly on the thorax, shoulders, and thighs, and followed, after its subsidence in a few days, by slight desquamation. It is of no special import. Tar, and its derivative Carholic acid, produce, by direct contact with the skin, certain lesions which may vary from a simple eczematous erup- tion in the weaker forms to complete destruction of tissue by the stronger, as by the application of pure carbolic acid. P'xternally, continuous irritation with tar, such as occurs in gas-works, produces the so-called "tar acne," which is caused by the plugging of the orifices of the pilo-sebaceous follicles during contact with the material, and the formation subsequently of papules or nodules as the result of the in- tiammatory changes in the fibrous tissue sur- rounding the duct. These nodules may break down and ulcerate, the process being associated with increased epithelial activity which in time may transgress the bounds and become malig- nant, developing into what is known as " tar cancer " (epithelioma). Though doubt has been thrown on this occurrence, too many cases have been recorded to leave any room for doubt as to its reality ; and several have come mider the writer's personal observation. In the earlier days of Listers moist carbolic dressings it was almost the rule, rather than the exception, to see a localised vesicular eczema produced in and about the area protected under the waterproof covering. Similar effects have been observed to follow the injection of carbolised fluids into mucous and serous cavities. In other cases ei-ythematous and eczematous outbreaks have followed the absorption of the drug. Wlien poisoning in moderate degree occurs from absorp- tion, the urine becomes of a dark olive-greenish colour on standing, and the presence of carbolic acid can be demonstrated by appropriate tests. Treatment, of course, consists in removal of the cause. When symptoms of general intoxication are acute, diuretics and large doses of sulphate of soda should be given internally, and active measures taken to combat the associated collapse. General Principles of Treatment.—But little remains to be added to what has been incident- ally said above as to the main indication in treatment:—It is, in all cases, stop the drug or diminish the dose. Many patients who cannot bear a drug in one form will take it readily in another, and here again nothing but careful observation and repeated trial can help the practitioner. As a general rule, it may be laid down that all drugs liable to produce toxic eruptions shoidd never he given in a concentrated form, but always in the maximum degree of dilution. In this way we know we are nearest to the border of safety. As to the so-called " preventive " additions—e.g. arsenic and am- monia to bromides and iodides, hydrobromic acid to quinine, etc.—opinions will always differ, and individual experience will lead to perfectly sound but very divergent opinions. Above all, the point of importance is to recognise the rela- tion between a given drug and a known erup- tion ; and that being acquired, treatment resolves itself into the alphabet of therapeutics. Antitoxin Rashes Causation.—In a very large percentage (20 to 45 per cent) of cases treated with antitoxin, rashes are apt to occur at a variable period after the injection. The antitoxic principle employed has nothing to do with their causation, nor are they due to any antiseptic which may be used in the preservation of the serum. They depend entirely on the serum itself, as is proved by the fact that normal horse serum produces them. They appear less frequently with the concen- trated preparations now in vogue than tlice- nsed to do when the injection of large amounts of a dilute antitoxin was common. They are also less likely to follow the administration of one large dose than they are the injection of several successive and comparatively small doses. Occurrence and Duration. — The rash may occur any time between the first and twenty- fourth day after the injection. A series of cases treated with small doses of dilute antitoxins in the Edinburgh City Hospital gave an average occurrence at about the twelfth day. More recently, however, the concentrated prepara- tions now in use have appeared to cause an