336 DIABETES MELLITUS often derive much benefit from a visit to these spas. But whether the results are due to the action of the waters or to the improved general conditions of life, more careful diet, and life in the open air, is a disputed point. (But from limited observations at Carlsbad and Neuenahr, the writer is inclined to attribute part of the good results obtained in the mild cases to the action of the waters.) Medical Treatment.—It is certain that no drug hitherto tried has a definite curative action, but several have a beneficial effect. Opium and its alkaloids have been long em- ployed, and are probably more useful than other drugs. At first half a grain of opium may be given three times a day. The dose may be gradually increased to 2 or 3 or more grains of opium three times a day, as diabetic patients are very tolerant of the drug. Kalfe advised it to be given an hour after a meal, since at this time he believed it had a greater effect in restraining diuresis, and was less liable to cause dyspeptic symptoms. Some authors prefer the crude opium, others morphia, and others codeia. The last drug has been specially recommended by Pavy. It may be given in small doses at first, half a grain three times a day, and gradually increased to 2 or 3 grains. All the opium preparations are liable to cause troublesome constipation and dyspeptic symp- toms, and therefore require watching, but probably codeia is less injurious in this respect. Next to opium and its alkaloid, alkalies have been, perhaps, most frequently employed in the treatment of diabetes. The alkalies which are most often used are the bicarbonate of soda, and the citrate, acetate, carVjonate or bicarbonate of potash. Naunyn strongly advocates the use of sodium bicarbonate in large doses in severe cases of diabetes before the onset of symptoms of coma, and when there are indications of acid into.xica- tion, such as great excretion of ammonia or marked reaction of the urine with perchloride of iron. So long as the perchloride of iron reaction is intense, he advises that bicarbonate of soda (150 to 450 grains daily) should be given, and that it should be increased in amount if the perchloride reaction increases. Since adopting this treatment (twelve years ago) the number of cases of coma in his practice has diminished greatly. Lithium salts (carbonate and citrate) have been much employed (often combined with arsenic). In cases associated with gout they may be of service. Arsenic has been much prescribed in the treatment of diabetes, and in some of the milder cases it probably is of some service, when the dose is gradually increased (up to 10 m. of the liquor arsenicalis three times a day). Jambul has been often prescribed in diabetes during recent years. Many observers have found it useless; others have obtained favourable results when the drug has been given in suffi- ciently large doses. Sodium salicylate has been recommended by Ebstein, who prescribes it freely. Brunton and Ralfe think it is of most service in the gly- cosuria of gouty persons. Schmitz of Neuenahr obtained better results with salicylate ofhisnmth than with any other drug in the mild forms of the disease (7| grains twice a day). Recently uranium nitrate has been recom- mended by West, and there is certainly some evidence in its favour. Numerous other drugs have been recom- mended from time to time, but usually extended experience has shown them to be useless or of very slight value. Cod-liver oil or lipanin are to be recommended when the patient is much wasted. Treatment of Complications.—^When irrita- tion and eczema of the genital organs (vulva or prepuce) is a troublesome symptom, it is im- portant that the external orifice of the urethra and surrounding parts should be dried with lint or absorbent cotton-wool directly after each act of micturition. Boracic acid ointment, boracic acid lotion, or a solution of sodium hyposulphite (one in forty) may be applied. The treatment of other complications—boils, carbuncles, gan- grene, phthisis, nephritis, etc. — is described elsewhere in the articles devoted to these subjects. Prevention and Treatment op Diabetic Coma.—In the severe forms of diabetes, when there is much wasting or when the urine gives a marked reaction with perchloride of iron, there is great danger of coma developing. In such cases it is important to remember that a long railway journey, over-exertion, or sudden change of diet is liable to be followed by coma. Prolonged constipation is also dangerous. As already mentioned, the diet ought not to be too rigid. Some carbohydrate food (especially bread) ought to be allowed. Cream and fatty food should be given freely. Whenever there are signs of commencing coma, the carbohydrates in the diet should be increased a little and the nitrogenous food diminished. Constipation should be relieved by the use of purgatives, and Schmitz believes that he has checked the onset of coma by producing free action of the bowels with castor oil. In severe cases, especially when the per- chloride of iron reaction is intense, alkalies should be given in large quantities—400 to 500 grains of sodium bicarbonate in the twenty-four hours. Naunyn believes that this treatment is of great importance, and that the oiaset of coma may sometimes be prevented thereby for a long period. When early symptoms of coma are observed alkaline treatment ought to be com- menced at once, if it has not been prescribed previously. A number of cases are now on