EAR, EXAMINATION OF 458 examine it closely for any indication of moisture or foetor. 3. Investigation of the Function op Hear- ing.—We have already indicated in the anatomi- cal sketch of the ear that impairment of hearing- may be clue to causes' existing in the soimd- conducting or sound-perceiving apparatus, or in both. While an objective examination of the ear will assist in determining the site (and nature) of the lesion in the former, the possible existence of a labyrinthine affection can only be accurately judged by carefully testing the hear- ing function. Hence such tests serve the double jjurpose of estimating not only the degree of deafness that may be present, but also of local- ising the seat of its origin. Sound sensations may reach the auditory nerve terminations through two channels, the external auditory meatus and chain of ossicles, ■i.e. by air-conduction, and through the bones of the skull, i.e. by bone-conduction. Certain simple methods are employed for testing audi- tion through both these channels ; these are the watch, the voice, and the tuning-fork. While carrying out this part of the examination care must be taken to eliminate every source of error, if reliable observations are to be made. It is very necessary that the diff'erent tests be applied before any treatment is carried out, and that the results obtained by these tests be at once carefully noted in writing; the date of the first as well as of later examinations should be registered, and the surroimding conditions on subsequent occasions should be as nearly as possible similar to those which existed in the first instance. The same test apparatus shoidd be again employed. In every case the hearing power of both ears should be ascertained, although the patient may only complain of deafness in one of them. Before pi-oceeding to apply the various tests it is advisable to introduce the speculum and ascertain whether any obstruction exists in the external auditory meatus of the nature of wax, etc., so that a needless repetition of the tests may be avoided by a preliminary removal of the obstruction. (a) The Watch Test.—The distance at which the tick of any given watch is heard by the normal ear is previously ascertained by ex- periment upon a number of healthy ears, so that a definite standard for comparison is thus provided. This distance may be recorded in inches. Method.—The patient is placed with one ear directed towards the examiner, while the other is closed by the introduction of a finger. The eyes may with advantage be closed, a pre- caution which is especially necessary in the case of children. The examiner, holding a yard measure in one hand, gradually brings the watch towards the ear under examination from a point outside the range at which the tick is perceived by a normal ear. Care should be taken that the watch does not touch the foot- rule if the latter is in contact Avith the bones of the head. The patient is directed to state at once when the tick becomes audible ; after two or three control experiments have been made, the distance is noted and the measure- ment registered in inches. This may be ex- pressed in terms of a fraction, whose denominator represents the normal hearing distance of the watch, e.g. 30 inches, while the numerator expresses the distance in any given case, e.g. 5 ; i.e. -^fy. If the watch be heard only on contact or on pressure upon the skull, it may be expressed as -g''^, while if the tick is not perceived at all, it may be registered as The same procedure is then carried out with the other ear. (b) The Voice Test. ■— In estimating the hearing distance by means of the human voice, the whisper and the ordinary conversational voice are employed ; these may be variously modified, so that low and loud whisper, low, ordinary conversational, and raised voice may be used as the examiner sees fit. The result is recorded in feet. Method.—The patient remains seated side- ways as before, it being A'ery necessary that the movements of the examiner's lips should not be observed ; the ear of the opposite side is again closed with the finger. The observer retires across the room, having directed the patient to repeat at once the words which he succeeds in hearing. If he should fail to hear anything at this distance, the examiner gradually approaches until he comes within hearing distance. This is carried out both with the whispering and with the ordinary conversational voice. The other ear is then examined and the results are again registered in feet. With regard to the words used for this purpose, it is perhaps advisable to employ single words, the patient in each instance repeating them when heard. When sentences are spoken or questions asked, the perception of one or two words only may give the key to the whole, and in this way a guess may prove correct and a false estimate be thus obtained. The numerals supply suit- able syllables if too much repetition be avoided. The necessity of maintaining a imiform pitch in the use both of the whispering and of the speaking voice is evident, and facility in acquiring this will be obtained by practice. Hearing Tests in Children.—In children it is often difficult, and in the very young even impossible, to obtain satisfactory answers either to the watch or voice tests. In the majority of cases the former is quite unreliable. It may sometimes suit all practical purposes to ask a few simple questions in ordinary tones and note whether they are responded to. On the other hand, it may be necessary to instruct the parents as to what is wanted, so that they may