74 CATHETERS, USES AND DANGERS OF the instruments, the urine, and the urethra aseptic. They are more rare after operations upon old and dense cartilaginous strictures than after those upon recent ones, not because the germs are fewer, but because in the former absorption is not so easy. They occur, as a rule, not when the catheter is passed, but after- wards at the first micturition, because the passage of the urine down the urethra raises the pressure and forces into the circulation the toxins which have been formed in the interval. They seldom occur after external urethrotomy, because owing to the open wound there is no pressure. After lateral lithotomy they are very rare, even when the urine is septic, for the same reason. And the same thing explains what has been so often noted, that, while every attempt at dilating a stricture causes a rigor, free urethrotomy or rapid and complete stretching cures the patient at once without the least reaction. There are, of course, accessory causes. Any slight chill after an operation upon the urinary organs, such as standing with bare feet upon cold oil - cloth, will precipitate a rigor; and patients who have been exposed to malaria are especially predisposed to such attacks. But these are not necessary, and there can be no doubt, from what has been learnt by experi- menting upon animals, that the toxins are perfectly efficient by themselves, even though the amount which is driven into the circulation is infinitesimal. The prognosis in this form of urinary toxaemia is good as a rule. In some, fortunately very rare, cases the collapse has been so severe that the patient has never rallied. This is recorded as having happened even after the passage of a catheter, but most of the cases have followed operations upon the kidney for septic pyelitis. The explanation is that the manipulation of the kidney during the operation forces into the open ends of some of the renal venules such a large amount of the toxins which have been lying stagnant in the pelvis that the nerve centres are simply overwhelmed. Even when there are two or three rigors in succession there is no great cause for alarm. It usually means the absorption of successive doses. But when the rigors continue after forty-eight hours, after the surface of the wound in the urethra has been glazed over, it becomes a question whether the organisms them- selves have not entered into the blood-stream as well as the toxins, whether it is not a case of septic infection rather than of simple toxaemia. True septic infection may, of course, occur after operations upon the urethra as after operations upon other parts of the body. There are no local symptoms, but the rigors recur again and again, generally irregularly, but sometimes with intervals as regular as in ague. The patient rapidly becomes weaker and thinner. Perhaps slight jaundice sets in. There may be an attack of diarrhoea with peculiarly offensive motions. The pulse becomes more and more frequent, and at length death ensues from exhaustion. Another and equally common form of what is. called urinary fever is more chronic and much more insidious. The most typical examples are met with in cases of enlargement of the prostate at the beginning of catheter life, especially in those in whom there is a large amount of residual urine. A catheter is passed and the bladder partially emptied. This is repeated once or twice a day for several days. Tliere is no rigor or other symptom of note. The urine is clear, but the specific gravity is low, and the amount unduly large. On the fourth or fifth day the bladder becomes irritable, and the urine is found to be a little turbid, so that after stand- ing a grey deposit of pus settles at the bottom of the vessel. The total amount may increase until it reaches seven or eight pints a day, or it may diminish. The reaction is generally faintly acid, but it rarely fails to become alkaline after the first few days. There are often a few hyaline casts, and sometimes there is a little albumin. There is no rigor though the patient may complain of feel- ing chilly. The temperature only rises one or two degrees, but the pulse increases in frequency and diminishes in strength ; the tongue becomes dry and brown, especially down the centre; the appetite is lost; there is a tendency to nausea ; the mind becomes a little unsettled, and then muttering delirium begins at night, and the patient sinks into what is called a typhoid state. Post-mortem the bladder may be found to be large, with thin walls, or small and rigid, with thick ones, and perhaps sacculi projecting from them; but there is always evidence of recent acute cystitis. The ureters are dilated and full of offensive urine and pus. The pelvis of the kidneys is in the same condition. The mucous membrane is discoloured, with flakes of pus adhering here and there. The apices of the pyramids are eroded. The kidneys themselves are small and hard, and on section are seen to be studded with minute abscesses differing in shape and outline according to the anatomical arrangement at that particular spot. In a word> there is evidence everywhere of long-standing disease of the bladder and kidneys with, in addition, recent septic inflammation and sup- puration. The symptoms are not due to shock caused by emptying the bladder. They are in part the result of chronic renal insufficiency, in part of septic poisoning. The fault is in the bladder not being emptied properly. A certain amount of urine, a liquid in which micro- organisms grow exceedingly well, is habitually left stagnant in its recesses. Day by day more and more organisms are introdiiced by the catheter, and at last septic cystitis and pyelo- nephritis result. Treatment. — Nothing special need be said about syncope or shock when they follow the passage of a catheter or any other operation