509 EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC NON-SUPPURATIVE DISEASE (3) A tibrouis, which is adherent to tlie bone. An acute catarrh is an acute infiannuation of a mucous membrane due to either injiuy or infection. {See p. 483.) At present we are unable to say definitely what micro-organism will produce catarrh, but, as far as is known, any pathogenic organism has the power. The immediate result of infection is acute swelling and reddening of the membrane due to the engorgement of vessels and the presence of exudation, especially in the sub-epithelial layer. Exudation is also poured out from the surface, being serous, scro-mucoid, or chiefly mucoid. At this point resolution may take place, leaving no trace, the exudation in the sub-epithelial layers being carried otf by the lymphatics, and the vessels returning to their normal size. But if, from some local or general cause, resolution does not occur, the engorgement of vessels con- tinues and more or less exudation pei'sists, that which is poured out from the sm-face being a marked clinical feature in some cases. The chronic engorgement of vessels leads to local proliferation, especially of the fibrous tissue in the sub-epithelial layer ; this fibrous- tissue proliferation undergoes contraction, the exudation ceases, the epithelial layer by stretch- ing becomes atrophied, and the whole lining- membrane becomes ultimately converted into a layer of thick fibrous tissue. There are therefore four stages which run one into another when the acute period is passed :— (1) Chronic engorgement of vessels with exudation. (2) Resulting prolii'eration, especially of the fibrous tissue. (3) Contraction of the proliferated fibrous tissue. (4) The ultimate stage of cicatricial conditi(jn which may be called post-catarrhal. The results of such changes in the middle ear can be easily imagined when it is rememliered that the lining membriine, besides clothing the bony walls and inner aspect of the membrane, forms folds and pockets roinid the ossicles, their joints, ligaments, and muscles. At first the ossicles and membrana tympani are hampered by the swollen membrane and the exudation. Later the contraction of the pro- liferated fibrous tissue causes fm-ther and per- manent fixation. The membrana tymjjani is drawn in by the same cause, aided by the non-aeration of the cavity through the Eustachian tube allowing external atmospheric pressure to exert its influence. The folds of lining membrane are converted into fibrous bands, binding down the ossicles to neighbouring walls, the incus to the outer attic wall, and the stapes to its niche. The tip of the handle of the malleus coming in apposition to the promontory, the opposing epithelial layers become rubbed off and allow of adhesion at this point. The ossicular joints be- come anciiylosed; the muscles fixed. The exuda- tion becomes inspissated or confined in pockets of the lining membrane. The Eustachian tube, sharing the same changes, becomes narrowed. So that an originally pink, moist, thin, some- what movable lining memljrane l:)ecomes smooth, white, dry, and thick. Eurther changes of the lining membrane sometimes occur, such as calcification, fatty degeneration, etc. The tensor tympani and stapedius muscles undergo atrophic degeneration. As the trouble may be limited to the Eus- tachian tube, or may involve the whole middle ear tract, each will be considered separately, with their symptoms, signs, prognosis, diagnosis, and treatment, as far as possible in their different stages. ((/.) Chronic Emtaddan Catarrh.—This may Ije limited to the orifice of the tube, or extend some distance up the cartilaginous portion. If long continued, changes may take place in the whole tract; these will be considered under the changes prodiiced by -s-ariations in pressure (p. 516). Symptoms and Si</iis.—One or both ears may be affected; if both, one is often worse than the other. Deafness is marked, but may vary from time to time, improving sometimes on swallow- ing or on blowing the nose, Init the improvement soon disappears ; or if permanent changes have not occurred, the patient, after suffering for some time, may feel a crack in the ears witii subsequent complete restoration of hearing. On inflation with Politzer's bag or the Eus- tachian catheter immediate and permanent improvement may occur in the limited early stage; or if the disease is of long standing, especially if it has extended some way along the tube, difficulty may be experienced in getting the tube open, and the resulting improvement, though great at the time, sooner or later dis- appears. On listening with the auscultation tube during inflation the air can be heard at first in the distance entering with difficulty, before clearly entering the cavity of tiie tym- panum. In the exudation stage distant bubbling may be at first heard. The patient complains of a distinct feeling of oppression of the head on the side affected ; and mental dulness may 1)0 felt, especially if botii tubes are blocked. Tinnitus of a rushing character is heard. The patient's own voice somids to him louder on the affected side, and if both ears are implicated it seems as if he were talking into a hollow vessel. The auricle and surromiding parts feel numb when lightly touched. On looking at the mem- brana tympani all the signs of depression will be seen. If permanent changes in the middle ear have not been produced the pink lining mem- brane may show through, unless any opacity is present. The white, short process of the malleus is prominent, the handle foreshortened and drawn somewhat backwards. The folds rmming