CHLOROSIS 113 possible to make the diagnosis by the injection of tubercTilin, when reaction or its absence would make the diagnosis easy. It is to be remembered that tubercular tumour of the brain or meningitis may cause anasmia. (6^ Simple anamia from bad hygiene, want of food, of sleep, of light, of fresh air, from over- work, etc.—In these cases the hajmoglobin and red corpuscles are more likely to be equally dinainished, and the blood-plasma also becomes less alljuminous; but it is only in the extreme cases that this holds, and it is necessary to inquire very carefully into the patient's history. No amount of iron will take the place of sleep or fresh aii- in treatment. (7) Kidney Disease.—Chronic nephritis always causes ansemia in young people, but the blood- plasma contains a smaller amount of solids. The examination of the urine usually clears up the diagnosis. (8) Ancemia from Chronic concealed ILemor- rhage.—This may sometimes be from piles, of which the patient, from ignorance or modesty, does not tell her doctor, but more often from idcer of the stomach or duodenum. These ulcers may give rise to no symptoms, or to none that are not usual in chlorosis, and the blood in the stools is so much altered that the lay public cannot recognise it. The blood examination gives little or no help here, and there will be need of a very careful review of the whole case, and repeated examination of the stools. (9) Early Preijnanct/.—This must always be l>orne in mind as a possible cause of amenorrhoca and ana3mia in young girls. Treatment.—(1) Prophylactic. — In families where chlorosis has occurred in the elder sisters, it is worth while to be specially careful of the health of the younger sisters during the years when they are likely to be attacked. From what has been said with regard to the etiology of the disease it will be evident what the neces- sary measures are—a healthy life, with sufficient food, air, and exercise. It is quite useless to give iron befoi'e the disease develops, as it does not prevent the onset of chlorosis, and, if the system has become habituated to its use, it may fail entirely to assist blood formation when it is really needed. (2) General.—Sunlight and fresh air are of prime importance, and too much attention cannot be bestowed on them. Rest is also an all-important factor. All severe cases should be sent to bed, and so should all cases of medium intensity whose circumstances will allow of it. This removes the strain on the enfeebled and badly-nourished heart, and the symptoms of dyspnoea, faintness, headache, and neuralgia are relieved almost immediately. The length of time that the patient is to remain in bed depends on the severity of the case and the success of treatment; generally three weeks is a sufficiently long time, but it should be some VOL. II weeks longer before she is allowed to resume her ordinary duties. In slight cases, where it is not necessary to make the patient go to bed, she should rest as much as possible, avoid fatigue and excitement of all kinds, and keep early hours. The diet should be regulated to suit each case, of course; but regularity of meal times should be insisted on, and the want of appetite and disinclination for food can often best be dealt with by ordering relatively small meals at shorter intervals than usual—say every three hours. The distaste for meat which almost all chlorotics evince must be overcome, gently but firmly ; and an ordered quantity of it, small at first, but increasing, must be taken. The pre- vious diet has often consisted of bulky but in- nutritious foods, and these should be replaced by proteids, whose concentrated nourishment' can be more rapidly utilised. When the patient is thin, milk with an equal quantity of cream added to it may be given in addition to the meat, and where patients cannot take solid food milk will be given largely; but to fat patients, and to those who have a good appetite for solid food, a large quantity of milk should not be given. Alcohol, which favours fat formation, may be given to thin patients. The popular superstition that claret and other red wines " make blood " is of course absolutely ground- less. Cold bathing, or anything else which withdraws heat or causes shock to the heart, should be avoided. The bowels must be care- fully regulated, as iron has a tendency to produce constipation, though this is often overrated. (3) Special.—Iron cures chlorosis in the great majority of cases. It does not do so by replacing lost or diminished iron in the blood. The iron- containing proteids of the food are quite capable of doing this, but rest and good food alone will not cure chlorosis. AVhat is necessary is a very active stimulation of the bone-marrow, and the salts of iron circulating in the blood are the best stimulant to the marrow. The form in which iron is to be taken is to a certain extent a matter of indifference, and depends upon the digestive powers of the patient, our ability to give a suffi- cient amount of iron without giving too bulky a dose of the preparation, the experience of the phj'sician with similar cases, and only secondarily on the special properties of individual iron ^^re- parations. All of them, organic and inorganic, are transformed in the stomach into ferric chlor- ide. It was supposed that the inorganic salts of iron were not absorbed, and as a result there were put upon the market numerous prepara- tions of iron-containing nucleo-albumins and pro- teids, under the names of hfemoferrum, htemol, hfcmatogen, hasmoglobin, carniferrin, ferratin, etc. These contain iron in organic combination, and wei'e supposed to be more easily assimilable than the inorganic salts. They are all, liowever, too much like food-iron, do not stimulate the 8