CLIMACTERIC INSANITY 160 been misinterpreted, and the cessation of the menses has been held as proof that the false interpretation of sensations has positive grounds of truth. The varieties of insane delusions are numerous, and are developed out of these morbid feelings. As a rule, they have a sexual foundation. For instance, it is a common phase to complain of rape having been committed or having been attempted, especially in the hours of night. Not only may these patients complain of having been themselves criminally assaulted, but they may circumstantially relate that they have been made aware of friends or neighbours having been similarly maltreated. This opens up questions of medico-legal importance, which the practitioner will do well to bear in mind. He must exercise great caution in his dealings with persons so afflicted. And more especially is this to be remembered when they fall victims to epilepsy or epileptoid states, during which attacks there may be a performance of auto- matic actions requiring the closest observation in determining the responsibility of the parties. The condition of life as regards marriage also determines the form of the mental malady. The old maid whose life has been narrow, and whose sympathies may have been warped, will probably suffer from an access of passionate feeling, the expiring flicker of the candle, and pester some unfortunate man with suggestions of marital relations, or accuse him of working upon her by means of electric batteries, or blowing chloroform through the key-hole in pursuit of nefarious designs. On the other hand, the married woman gives way to irrita- bility, or dread, or disappointment, feeling that a new relationship has been established between her husband and herself. Instead of passing from the earlier years of married life to the years of a matron's duties, and so to a kindly green old age, by natural and easy transitions, the patient becomes exacting and querulous, expends her energies in a passion of jealousy, and destroys the home which she had built up with fond care. These unfortunate first steps require a world of patience and most con- siderate treatment. They indicate a self-con- sciousness and a loss of control which, unchecked, pass to easily recognisable forms of mental aber- ration. The clinical forms of climacteric insanity are broadly resolved into melancholia and mania, with comparatively few cases of delu- sional insanity of a melancholic type. Melancholia is undoubtedly by far the most common form. The cares of life, the organic malaise of the climacteric, ordinarily tinge the mental state with feelings of dread, fears of impending disasters, fears of impending dis- abilities. The consideration of the clinical features of melancholia need not be entered upon here. It is sufficient to correlate the depression and delusions with the underlying physical conditions. Mania is less common, and would be still less common were it not that alcoholism plays a certain part in the development of maniacal conditions at the climacteric. Cases occur in which melancholia follows on alcoholic excess, but the usual concomitant is mania. Again, there are cases in which there is a recurrence of mental disorder at the climacteric. These would appear to be chiefly maniacal in form. As to the cases of delusional insanity, where the predominant features are states of fixed and limited delusions, these are but few in number, and the delusions are almost invariably of a melancholic character. Still fewer degenerate into dementia, and these are usually complicated by alcoholic or other toxic influences. Dr. Savage has drawn attention to the obser- vation of Dr. Tilt that deafness occasionally occurs at the menopause—a defect which may be temporary or permanent. No doubt tinnitus is frequently a symptom of the climacteric, and it may pass on to more serious conditions; but it does not appear that deafness is in any way peculiar in its mental complications at that particular period of life. It is a matter of common observation that deaf persons often become suspicious, morose, delusional, and dangerous. Those afflicted with congenital or acquired deafness and insanity are among the most dangerous of the inmates of asylums. They are nearly always persecuted and persecutors. In addition to the mental aberrations above described and grouped according to preponder- ating symptoms, allusion must be made to certain moral aberrations which come under the notice of the physician from time to time. Reference has been made to the alcoholic habit which may begin with the trovibles of the menopause, but which is more probably only a shameless exacer- bation at that period. The excuse comes so readily that it gives the impression of having been too easily produced, just as the excuse may have been dysmenorrhcea or puerperal troubles in earlier life. It is not usual to find that a woman of alcoholic habits gives up her vicious indulgence on the cessation of climacteric disorders; on the contrary, it would appear that she continues to get drunk because she dislikes being sober. The deep-seated untruth- fulness of the drunkard must be discounted in arriving at any opinion on this question. And, similarly, it is not in accordance with modern experience to expect that mental disease of long standing will cease and determine on the com- pletion of the menopause. More serious, if possible, are those cases of moral insanity in which nymphomania becomes a prominent symptom. Fortunately these are rare, but when they do occur they are only too easily recognised.