180 COLON, DISEASES OF of mucus, and is a coagulated secretion of the intestinal mucous membrane. The patients who suffer from this disease are usually neurotic dyspeptics of a depressed turn of mind, and liable to attacks of constipation. They are poor eaters, believing that first this and then that article of food disagrees with them, so that their diet soon becomes very re- stricted in clioice and quantity; they are usually thin, anaemic, and complain of the cold ; the tongue is pale and a little furred, the bowels are frequently rather constipated, and the constipa- tion may alternate with attacks of diarrhoea. Suft'erers from membranous colitis are as a rule taciturn; they rarely have buoyant spirits; they take a gloomy view of life, and exaggerate the importance of trifles. These symptoms and this frame of mind are constantly with the patient, but there are e.tacerbations from time to time during which there is much additional pain, usually griping, generally along the course of the colon, and often coming on a long while after food. During these exacerbations flatulence is troublesome, loss of appetite and constipation are very marked; the patient may complain of nausea or suffer from actual vomiting; the tongue is very furred and may be red, and the mental depression and feeling of weariness are very pronounced. After this state of things has gone on for a week, the patient notices that she has passed a considerable quantity of " skins." In a mild case the patient is in the intervals between these attacks restored to feeble health without the passage of any membrane, but in other cases some but less membrane is passed in between these exacerbations of the disease. When passing membranes the patient is as a rule excessively constipated, and frequently takes enormous quantities of pui'gatives. The act of defcBcation is often excessively painful. I have known a patient sit on the water-closet for a couple of hours suffering from agonising griping pain before a motion, consisting of enough blood and membranes to flU a half-pint measure, was passed. This patient often had to take a morphia injection during defsecation, and twice she fainted in the water-closet. As a rule a rectal examination reveals nothing abnormal. Only in mild cases does the opening of the bowels relieve the symptoms from which the patient suff"ers. Women who complain of membranous colitis are particularly prone to sufTer from amenorrhoea and pelvic troubles ; indeed, almost every case that consults a general physician has been pre- viously under the care of a gynfecologist. Most of these patients, if severely ill, are valetudi- narians who drag out their lives passing from one health resort to another, and many of them have enteroptosis or prolapse of the intestines. Treatment.—Between the attacks the patient should in all respects lead as healthy a life as possible. She should take plenty of exercise. Kiding or playing golf is infinitely preferable to dull solitary walks taken merely for the sake of taking exercise. The diet should be ample; most of these patients decline first one article of food and then another, until at last they are not only underfed, but their digestive powers are overtaxed in one particular direction. An obviously indigestible dietary should be avoided, but otherwise the patient should partake of whatever is put before her. It should be well cooked, and the meals must be as tempting as possible ; they should be at regular times. Van Noorden thinks that there should be plenty of coarse vegetables and fruit so as to mechanically act upon the colon. The patient should go to bed early, and have eight hours' sleep. All these patients are worse if they are idle; they should always have some occupation. Purga- tives should be avoided, for they are particularly liable to cause indigestion ; the bowels should be kept open by going to the water-closet regu- larly at the same time every day, by healthy living, and if necessary by a little abdominal massage before rising in the morning. A holiday and change of scene to some such bracing place as Switzerland or Norway is often of the greatest benefit. Indeed, these patients derive much benefit from such a holiday even when they are not passing membranes. During the period when they are passed it is particularly important not to give purgatives by the mouth ; but if the constipation be extreme and the griping pain severe, considerable relief may be afforded by a rectal injection of a drachm of glycerine or half a pint of warm oil or soap and water. For a severe case rest in bed, morphia injected subcuta- neously, and the application of hot fomentations to the abdomen, may be necessary ; but opiates should not be prescribed unless they are abso- lutely necessary, for not only do they increase the constipation, but sufferers from membran- ous colitis are just the sort of people who may have become addicted to an excessive use of these agents. Probably future experience will show that when the patient has tried all other means of relief without success, and when suftering is so great that life is a burden, that the best treat- ment is to open the colon on the right side, and thus give the diseased bowel complete rest. The artificial anus may then be closed. I be- lieve the first published case in which this treat- ment was adopted was one brought before the Clinical Society by Mr. Golding-Bird and myself in 1895, and since then other authors have published cases and Mr. Golding-Bird and I have brought two others before the Clinical Society. The small experience we have at present of this method of treatment appears to show that the artificial anus should be left open for at least six months. This obviously in many cases will prevent this treatment, for it is exceptional to find a colotomy plug fit so well