DIPHTHERIA 394 shall be extracted, a toxin not only capable of bringing about the nerve and muscle degenera- tion already described, but also neutralisable by the diphtheria antitoxin. And this has not yet been accomplished. (iii.) Lastly, it must be mentioned that some authorities, especially the French, believe that the strepto- and staphylococci and other organisms so commonly found in the local exudation in a case of diphtheria have no small share in the pathology of the disease. They state not only that to these organisms are due such complications as adenitis, cellulitis, sup- puration, and so forth, but also that the viru- lence of the diphtheria bacilli is heightened by their presence. Hence they speak of " pure " and " associated" diphtheria; meaning by " pure " cases those in which a pure cultivation of the specific organism is obtained from the exudation, and by " associated " cases those in which the diphtheria bacilli are associated in the cultivation with a large number of other bacteria. While the writer shares this view in so far as to agree that in some cases certain of the com- plications mentioned can be attributed to the associated organisms, he cannot subscribe to the belief that they are all so caused ; nor is he of the opinion that the " associated " is necessarily graver than the "pure" form. In his ex- perience the clinical results of the antitoxin treatment are quite against this view. By merely examining a growth on serum or a slide under the microscope no knowledge is to be gained as to the severity of any given case. Diagnosis.—Since in faucial diphtheria in its earliest stage, and in many cases at a later period also, the exudation is slight and not membranous, and constitutional symptoms may be absent, it is easy to understand how difficidt it is to distinguish the disease from other forms of sore throat, more especially simple and follicular tonsillitis. Every case of this kind should indeed be regarded w'ith suspicion, and forthwith isolated and injected with antitoxin. A bacteriological examination should at the same time be made, and in the absence of any definite clinical symptoms the diagnosis should rest upon the result of this examination. It should, however, be borne in mind that one negative result is not sufficient upon which to pronounce an opinion that the case is not one of diphtheria. Of the two forms of tonsillitis above mentioned diphtheria assumes the simple more often than the follicular. Besides these the affections most commonly taken for diph- theria are simple ulceration of the tonsil, catarrhal inflammation of the fauces, and scarlet fever with angina. The very existence of ulceration (unless very superficial) is against diphtheria. In catarrhal sore throat the tonsils and the whole of the mucous membrane of the fauces are slightly swollen, and at first dry. Later there is an excess of mucous secretion. Often the inflammation extends to the nasal passages (producing a discharge at first thin and watery, afterwards muco-purulent), larynx, and trachea (giving rise to hoarse cough and pain in the chest, rarely to urgent dyspnoea). There may be slight pyrexia, and the patient feels chilly and out of sorts. The condition is not infrequently met with in influenza. Scarlet fever is often diagnosed as diphtheria; much less often is the latter affection mistaken for the former. The error arises, firstly, through the observer being unavoidably com- pelled to make a diagnosis before the appear- ance of the rash ; secondly, through the omission to look for a rash; and, thirdly, through the absence of a rash. The onset of scarlet fever is usually accompanied by vomiting, which is not the rule in diphtheria. A high temperature, delirium, and marked swelling, with vivid red- ness of the fauces generally, are in favour of scarlet fever. But it is often impossible to dis- tinguish a mild case of scarlet fever before the appearance of the rash from one of diphtheria. The rash may be absent or insignificant and transient not only in very slight cases of scarlet fever, but in a few seTere cases with serious angina. These cases are a source of much trouble in diagnosis, for not infrequently there is thick pviltaceous or even membranous exudation upon the fauces. In such cases the diagnosis cannot be made with certainty till a late period, when the exudation has cleared off, leaving behind deep or extensive idceration, or until the characteristic desquamation has com- menced. Anything beyond superficial ulceration is uncommon in diphtheria. In the cases of scarlet fever to which we are referring, suspicion is often roused before ulceration or gangrene has occurred by the irregular but continuous pyrexia (often with delirium), the persistence of the exudation (the more remarkable if antitoxin has been administered imder the supposition of diphtheria), and the rapid emaciation of the patient. The larynx is rarely affected in scarlet fever; when this event does happen it is either secondary to intense cervical cellulitis, or it occurs later in cases where there is extensive and spi'eading faucial ulceration. The writer has also known diphtheria to be mistaken for the following conditions:—Ery- sipelas faucium, quinsy, enteric fever, mumps, ulcerative stomatitis, thrush, syphilis (usuallj^ tertiary iilceration), tuberculous ulceration of the fauces, herpes of the palate, phageda^na of the fauces (a rare disease), and not seldom, especially in infants, dried mucus and clotted milk adhering to the fauces. With respect to erysipelas faucium and quinsy the mistake is usually caused by the presence of exudation having the appearance of membrane. But in each of these diseases the initial shivering, higii temperature, delirium, full and bounding pulse and intense swelling, brawny in the case of