166 CLIMATE AND ACCLIMATISATION such as the Anglo-Saxon may undergo material changes. It is obvious that the Colonials of the present day are practically different from their ancestors, and they indicate a tendency to change to an altogether new type of manhood, with new aptitudes and capabilities. Broadly speaking, Europeans can only become rapidly and readily acclimatised in the temperate zone ; that is to say, where climatic and other conditions are approximately akin to their present habitat. It may also be said that people who inhabit the temperate zone become more easily acclimatised in countries towards the north of their present habitation. It is interesting to notice that the peoples of Southern Europe, such as the Italians and southern Frenchmen, can better bear the climate of sub-tropical Africa than can Northern Europeans, and, as Mr. Ravenstein has pointed out, "a steady stream of migration is, in fact, setting in that direction. Germans and Belgians are pouring into France, Frenchmen are going to Algeria, the Arabs from the shores of the Mediterranean have found their way into the Sudan, whilst the Sudanese are pushing forward into Bantu Africa. The descendants of those Dutchmen who, a couple of hundred years ago, first settled at the Cape, have made their way to the Transvaal, and European migration, favoured by geographical features, is being pushed, even within the Tropics, towards the Zambesi." In treating the subject of acclimatisation, some have simply divided mankind into two classes, white and black, but this is a far too sweeping generalisation, and it must be examined more closely if a definite and right conclusion is to be arrived at. An endeavour must be made to prove with certainty in each separate case what power of resistance is possessed by any given national constitution, in order to decide whether it may successfully acclimatise itself in a new country and permanently colonise. In white races there is apparently a marked grada- tion in their susceptibility to climatic influences, and a very decided difference is noticed between the Aryan and Semitic races in this respect. The Arabs and the Jews are both unequalled in their power of adapting themselves to new en- vironment, but even between them a difi'erence exists, in so far as the Jews appear to continue definitely capable of reproduction, although they marry amongst themselves, while the Arabs often suffer from degeneration which is only retarded by the introduction of new blood. They take wives from the races among whom they settle and thereby continue to exist, but this is not true acclimatisation, for the race is altered and transformed into a mixed race, which eventually possesses very little in common with the original stock. Race itself does not always provide us with a definite clue to capability of acclimatisation, for in India the Hindu popula- tion, notwithstanding its Aryan origin, has thriven iinder unfavourable circumstances and even in malarial districts, presenting a striking contrast to the English (also an Aryan race), whose intolerance of the Indian climate is obvious. Temperament also plays a not unimportant part in the possibility of prolonged existence in a given region. It is a quality which requires considerable time to be modified by new condi- tions of life, e.g. the Indian at Brazil is dull and sullen, the negro is vivacious and gay, although in the same climate. Hereditary temperament and capacity of mind characterise variously all races, and differences of intellectual and moral power are well-marked factors in the possibility of acclimatisation. Virchow not long ago pointed out, with reference to acclimatisation, that two distinct questions are usually confiised, viz. (1) How long can any single individual, with pre- cautions and care, live in any particular climate ? (2) what races can thrive and colonise in any particular climate ? No definite answers are yet possible. In answer to the first it may, however, be said that selected individuals may live for a time anywhere with precautions. With regard to the second, rapid acclimatisation of a race can only be obtained if it migrates to regions having approximately the same climatic condi- tions as its original habitat. If Europeans, for instance, attempt to colonise in the tropics, they almost invariably die out. In the West Indies we have a striking exemplification of this, and even in Cuba, which is brought forward by some authorities as a proof to the contrary, the apparent increase in the white population is more than accounted for by immigration. The permanent decrease of the white population in the West Indies dates from the abolition of slavery; as overseers and occupiers of the soil, Europeans are able to withstand climate more successfully than when they are compelled to undertake actual manual labour. The white man's incapacity for manual labour is an im- portant question throughout the tropics ; it has necessitated the employment of Chinese labour in America, of coolies in Mauritius and Java, and of kidnapped natives from the South Sea Islands in Australia. From what has been said it is obvious that Europeans are almost incapable of colonising in the tropics—almost, because there are some places in the tropics occupying a high altitude, and some islands whose climate is so modified by the surrounding water and by their exposure to winds, that they almost possess a temperate climate. For instance, in the Vindhya hills in India the French have colonised successfully, and, theoretically, there is no reason why Europeans should not colonise and thrive in some of the highlands of Central Africa, when railway communication has been provided to carry them rapidly across the dangerous belt of malaria on the coast.