DIPSOMANIA 40a the patient inauifeats these Hymptoius inde- pendently of persistent alcoholic habits, he is not a dipsomaniac. Moreover, in dipsomania the symptoms common to alcoholism {q.v.) do not abound. Apart from these cases of alcohol- ism dipsomania is, as I have said, rare. Etiology.—Dipsomania is not hereditary in the strict sense. It is an inequilibrium which may occur in any neuropathic family, and it may be the first instance, in a long race, of nervous depreciation. The occasions of paroxysmal im- pulse are of much more practical importance than are the constitutional causes of the idio- syncrasy. These have already been indicated. Adolescence is of the first importance; in older men, the preclimacteric stage when business is often excessive; and, in women, the late puer- per;d and lactational period. As in other neuroses, the periodicity of the paroxysms is more marked in women than in men. Treatment.—The treatment of dipsomania is palliative as regards the idiosyncrasy, and preventive as regards the paroxysm. In other words, the patient should be treated as neurotic, and discipline and hygiene should be made to minister to stability. The treatment usually prescribed refers almost entirely to the preven- tion of drinking when a paroxysm has occurred. It is questionable if that is important. It is much more valuable to anticipate the crisis. When a patient is expecting an attack, active steps sho\dd be taken to outflank it. An abrupt and sudden readjustment of the whole circum- stances of the patient is called for—always in the direction of recuperation of energy. Change is the first essential; and it must be borne in mind that very often an imusual activity is recuperative. If the paroxysm has not been forestalled, and the physician is called to a case in which the stage of obsession or that of im- pulse has been reached, he must devote himself to the least hurtful satisfaction of the crave. An enema should be administered, the stomach should be washed out, and sedatives or intoxi- cants should be administered liy the tube. At the same time nutrients should be added, and saline or other aperients. It must be the physician's aim to induce hypnosis as speedily as possible, and at the same time to further elimination. The patient must, in no case, be told what has been administered. Hypnotism is very Tiseful if resorted to soon enough, but is not likely to be applicable in the paroxysmal stage. Dipsophobia. — " Fanatic abstinence from intoxicating liquors." See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of In- hibition). Diptera.. See Myiasis {Myiasis Intesti- nalis, DijHera Larvce) ; Parasites {Insects, Diptera). DipuS.—Double foot, as in cases in which there are from seven to nine digits on one foot, along with indications that the foot is really two feet more or less completely fused ; the term dipus is also given to double monsters in which there are only two feet (instead of three or four). Dipyg^US. — That type of double mon- strosity or united twins in which the lower end of the trunk is double (double sacrum). Dipylidium Caninum. See Paha SITES {Cestodes, Twnia Canina).—A common intestinal parasite in the dog; the ripe pro- glottides have the shape of melon seeds, hence the synonymous name Tcenia cuciimerijia some- times given to it; the larvte develop in the lice and fleas of the dog. Direct Action. —The effect which a drug produces on an organ such as the kidney from contact; local action {see Pharmacology) in contrast to indirect action, which is a secondary effect. Direct Tracts. See Spinal Cord {A7ia- tomical Considerations) ; Physiology, Nervous System {Spinal Cord, Cowluctinr/ Paths). Director. — An instrument, grooved on one side, for directing the course of a knife or scissors in making an incision into an organ, an abscess, or a cyst in the midst of important structures which it is very desirable not to wound. Dirrhinus.—A rare form of monstrosity in which there are two noses (Ballantyne's Ante- natal Fatliology, vol. ii. p. 397). Dirt-Eatingf. See Pica. DisaCCharidS. — Double sugars, e.cj. maltose ; two glucose molecules polymerise to form one maltose molecule. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Carbohydrates). DiSaSSimitation.—The transformation of assimilated substances in the body into less complex compounds with liberation of energy ; catabolism or katabolism; downward meta- bolism. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Meta- bolism., Katabolic Changes). DisaSSOCiation.—The breaking up of a complex molecule into simpler ones at a certain elevation of temperature {te?7iperature of disassociation), with reunion of the simpler molecules afterwards when the temperature falls. Disc.—Any rounded, plate-like body, but especially the optic disc (entrance of optic nerve, or blind-spot), blood discs (red blood corpuscles), Bowman's and Ilenseri's discs (the discs into