COLOTOMY 188 The severe and dangerous hsemorrhage caused by the passage of feces over very vascular growths may sometimes demand colotomy. Colotomy is frequently required for persistent diarrhoea arising from cancer of the lower part of the sigmoid flexure and of the upper part of the rectum, or from syphilitic or tuberculous ulceration, not only of the lower, but also of the upper parts of the large intestine. In such ulcerations, tuberculous, syphilitic, or dysen- teric, colotomy, performed above the diseased portion of the gut, will stay the diarrhoea. Colotomy falls under three heads, namely, inguinal colotomy, left or right, lumbar colotomy, left or right, and transverse colotomy. The left ■inguinal and the left lumbar operations are far the most frequent, and a general preference may be given to the former. The opening being in front in inguinal colotomy, it can be attended to by the patient much more easily than is the case in the lumbar region, and a pad or truss can be more readily adjusted. The importance and possibility of being able to procure a good spur, and so preventing faeces from passing below the colotomy opening, are strong points in favour of the inguinal method. Especially is this the case if the colotomy has been done for the relief of pain, ha3morrhage, or diarrhoea. Again, a spur can always be made in the inguinal region, but this is not so in the lumbar region, as often the gut is too firmly fixed to the loin, and at too great a depth from the surface wound. For transverse, right lumbar, and right inguinal colotomy the rule is to perform the colotomy immediately above the stricture, or stricture with ulceration, if such be clearly indicated. In uncertain cases a median ab- dominal exploration should first be made, and when the seat of the obstruction is found, the colotomy should be done above that; thus for disease about the splenic flexure of the colon, transverse colotomy is the best; for disease at or extending up to the hepatic flexure, right lumbar colotomy is pi'eferable; for disease lower down, right inguinal colotomy should be chosen. If the exploratory operation has not had definite results, right inguinal colotomy is the best, so that the surgeon may work well altove the diseased part of the large intestine. Operations (a) Left Inguinal Colotomy.—In left inguinal colotomy, about an inch and a half inside the left anterior superior spine of the ilium, and parallel with Poupart's ligament, the skin and cellular tissue are divided by an incision not more than two inches in length, and often less. The muscles are divided down to the subserous areolar tissue, which is torn through, the peri- toneum is opened, the finger is introduced into the opening, and the deep structures are divided with scissors up to the extent of the skin wound. My former practice was to stitch the parietal peritoneum to the skin ; now I think it wiser not to do this, as it was shown by the late Dr. Greig Smith that a much better luiion is obtained when the peritoneum covering the gut unites to muscles and cellular tissue than when peritoneum becomes united to peritoneum. The gut is sought for and brought to the siirface, and is at once recognised to be large intestine by its longitudinal bands and appen- dices epiploicse. While it is held out of the wound the mesentery fixing it to the back of the abdomen is sought for. Then through the mesentery, just as it joins the gut, a pair of Spencer Wells's forceps (closed) are passed, and these forceps, perforating the mesentery, are allowed to rest across the wound in the ab- dominal wall. They thus support the gut, and prevent it from slipping back again into the abdomen. The handle of the forceps should point toward the middle line; the apex or point of the forceps should point outwards. A suture is then passed through the serous and muscular coats of the bowel, and through the skin at the upper and lower angle of the skin wound. If necessary, three or four other sutures may be used in like manner to unite the gut to the skin about other parts of the wound. I now use forceps rather than a glass rod or the mesenteric stitch, as they are not so likely to slip out, as may happen when the glass rod is used, or tear through prematurely, as is at times the case with the mesenteric stitch. It is most important that these forceps should be kept through the mesentery behind the gut for at least ten days, after which they are removed. In from twenty-four hours to three days after the operation, the gut is opened by a transverse incision over the forceps and parallel to them. It should be made only long enough so as to allow flatus or liquid fseces to pass out. In about ten days' time, or longer, if the union between the gut and the wound does not appear to be very strong, the entire gut is cut through in a transverse direction, the incision going through the opening made to let out flatus and faeces. This cut is carried down to the clip forceps through the mesentery—in fact, it absolutely divides the gut across, and thus frees the forceps. By cutting down on to the forceps, one can make sure that the gut is really divided in two, for, as previously shown, the forceps at the original operation are passed through the mesentei'y behind the gut. By the cutting of the gut transversely there is no pain, and little or no bleeding, as the nerves and vessels run transversely round the gut. The essential point of the operation is to prevent fjeces passing below the artificial in- guinal opening, and to effect this the gut is fixed up by the forceps through the mesentery