496 SUPPURATION AND SEQUEL.E EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC mucosa, the malleus may be readily excised by means of Delstanche's extracteur du nmrteau. As a rule the stapes, even in cases of long- continued suppurative disease of the middle ear, retains its vitality. This is to be explained from the fact that it receives nourishment from two sets of blood-vessels—-labyrinthine and tympanic—whilst the malleus and incus are dependent upon one set only, viz. the tympanic. Its removal has, however, been recommended under certain circumstances by Kessel, and several American confreres, notably Jack of Boston, have recorded surprisingly good results following its excision. When parietal caries coexists careful curette- ment by means of delicate spoons or curettes (Lake) may be attempted. The results of ex- cision of the ossicula are in many cases highly satisfactory, vertiginous symptoms being often entirely relieved and purulency arrested. In those cases, however, where purulency continues vmabated, the indication is that deep - seated caries coexists, necessitating the performance of a radical mastoid operation. Deep-seated caries may, however, be very difficult, if not impos- sible, to diagnose with certainty. It may be suspected in those cases of chronic foetid middle ear suppuration which do not yield to ordinary methods of treatment; also where ,tufts of granulation tissue reappear constantly after removal, and when deep-seated pains are com- plained of in and around the middle ear. POST-SUPPURATIVE SEQUBLiE Dry Perforation of the Membrana Tympani. —When purulency has come to an end, either spontaneously or as the result of efficient treatment, a dry perforation of the membrana tympani frequently remains. In comparatively recent cases such perforations have sharply defined, thin, and somewhat vascular edges; in cases of old standing the edges present a callous and indurated appearance from the presence of epithelial proliferation. Such open perforations are a constant menace to the integrity of the structures within the middle ear and to the life of the individual. Attempts should therefore be made to induce cicatrisation. In recent cases this may be effected by stimulation of the edges by the application of such agencies as nitrate of silver, dilute chromic acid, tincture of iodine, etc. In genuinely chronic cases the application of trichloracetic acid (Okouneff") will be found most efficacious, acting as it does by removing all dry and indurated epidermis. Berthold's myringo-plastic method may also be tried. Multiple incisions across and at right angles to the edges of the perforation, or a circum- ferential incision, will be found capable at times of starting a healthy reaction and subsequent cicatrisation. In addition to such local applications, packing the meatus with some antiseptic gauze and the maintenance of rest to the organ will be foimd to assist the process of repair. When cicatrisation of the membrana tympani cannot be secvired, and where there is a marked defect in hearing power, the employment of an artificial drum frequently yields excellent re- sults. No data are, however, forthcoming to indicate the cases in which its employment is likely to be attended with success. The mem- branes most in use are those suggested by Toynbee and Yearsley. Of the two the latter will be found to give the best results in the majority of cases, and its employment, if reason- able care be used, is unattended with risk. Artificial membranes should be used only in those cases where suppuration has actually ceased or where it is present in very small quantities. Yearsley's cotton pads are made by rolling pieces of absorbent wool into small balls or cylinders, which, when moistened with some antiseptic fluid, should be introduced under illumination by means of a delicate pair of forceps and placed against the remains of the membrane, so as to exert slight pressure upon the head of the stapes or head of the malleus. At first they should be worn for a few hours, the period being gradually prolonged until they are borne with impunity. They should, how- ever, be removed at night and replaced the followino- morning. It is often advisable to intermit their use for a few days, and it is remarkable that in many cases after such a period of rest the hearing power afterwards is considerably better than before. In cases where they cause marked irritation and a re- crudescence of the suppurative process their use should be interdicted. The patient, after having been shown the method of introducing and of placing the artificial drum in situ, rapidly acquires an astonishing dexterity in its manipu- lation. In a certain number of cases the cicatricial portion of the membrana tympani will be found to be iniduly lax, and as a result not only will audition be interfered with, but the constant movement of the cicatrix proves a source of annoyance to the patient. To relieve this, incisions into the cicatrix, or the collodion plan of treatment, by means of which the lax cicatrix is held in position by a film of collodion, may be employed. Adhesions.—As the result of chronic suppura- tion of the tympiinic mucosa, adhesions may form between the remains of the membrana tympani or a cicatrised membrane and the inner wall of the middle ear, between the ossicula themselves or between the ossicula and the adjacent tympanic parietes, or between the foot-plate of the stapes and the mai'gins of the fenestra ovalis. Varying degrees of deafness, tinnitus, and vertigo may consequently result.