'—BRONCHIAL GLANDS BRONCHI, DISEASES OF- 8 The glands themselves vary a good deal in size and shape, and the inter-bronchial group extend for some distance into the substance of the lung, according to Cruveilhiei-, as far as the fourth divisions of the bronchi. The right bronchus is shorter than the left, and is more directly a continuation of the trachea than is the left, and there are a larger number of glands in connection with the right than with the left bronchus. From the position of the glands it will be seen that they come into relation with the following intrathoracic structures:— The trachea, the bronchi as far as their fourth division, the lungs, the pulmonary arteries and veins, the superior vena cava, the innominate, subclavian, and azygos veins, and the aorta ; the vagus nerve and its recurrent branches, and the pulmonary plexuses, the pericardium, and the oesophagus. The tracheal bifurcation corresponds in level to a horizontal line drawn through the junction of the manubrium and body of the sternum; this corresponds behind to the spine of the fourth dorsal vertebi-a. The horizontal level at the point of intersection of the lines corresponding to the spines of the scapulte will also give us the level of the tracheal bifurcation. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—The bron- chial glands may be the seat of various morbid changes, either as a primary condition, or second- ary to changes in the neighbouring parts from which the lymphatics pass to the glands, or as part of some general condition affecting the lym- phatic glands. The most common morbid condition is pigmen- tation, and in adults this condition is practically constant. Next to pigmentation, hypercumia and inflammatory swelling of the glands are the most common morbid conditions, and are met with in association with similar conditions in the pleura, lungs, and bronchi. The amount of swelling may be considerable, the glands being three or four times their normal size, pinkish grey in colom- and succulent, or, in cases where the swelling is marked, becoming pale grey and medullary in appearance. The enlargement is not so important as the accompanying lowered activity of the glands, which results in climinished resistance to invasion of the tissues by micro- organisms, more especially by the bacillus tulter- culosis. It is quite probable that owing to the retardation of the lyinph stream in the lungs or pleura, the bacilli have a longer opportimity of getting into situations suitaVjle for their growth and multiplication. In this way the frequency of tuberculous dis- ease of the glands after measles and whooping- cough may be explained. That these changes in the glands are not necessarily secondary to tuberculous disease of the lungs or pleura is evidenced by the fact that we often find the changes in the lungs recent while those in the glands are obviously of long standing, and if we find in a given case the region of the root of the lung to be the part most affected, it is most prob- able that the disease originated in the glands and spread outwards. The frequency of casea- tion of the bronchial glands is shown by the fact that in a series of 300 post-mortems made on children under twelve years of age the writer found the bronchial glands caseous in 110—i.e. in 37 per cent of the cases. Such glands may undergo various changes, becoming fibrosed or calcified, or they may undergo softening or sup- puration. Caseation of the glands is usually associated with a tuberculous lesion in the lungs or else- where, but may be the sole tuberculous mani- festation present. An analogous condition is met with in the abdomen when we find caseous mesenteric glands as the sole tuberculous lesion. The writer believes that caseous bronchial glands are more common than caseous mesenteric glands, thus indicating that tuberculous infection takes place more frequently through the air-passages than the alimentary tract. Apart from tubercle, metastatic deposits in the glands are of frequent occurrence in associa- tion with malignant deposits in the lungs, pleurje, and oesophagus either of a primary or secondary nature. Primary new growths in the glands are most commonly of the nature of sarcomata, especially lyrapho-sarcomata (see " Mediastinum "). In lymphadenoma {q.v.') the bronchial glands take part in the general glandular enlargement. In both secondary and tertiary syphilis the bronchial glands may share in the general glan- dular enlargement. When waxy disease is widespread the glands throughout the body may be the seat of deposits of waxy material, but it is very doubtful if any distinct symptoms or physical signs can be traced to this condition in the bronchial glands. Disease of the bronchial glands produces effects in two ways— (i.) By impairment of function. (ii.) By the production of enlargement with consequent pressure effects. The effects of impaired function have been briefly referred to above, and are more fully dealt with inider the head of tuberculosis. Prac- tically, enlargements of the bronchial glands suf- ficient to cause pressure effects are due to either tubercle or new growths, and the former is infin- itely the more common in children, the latter in adults. Although disease of the bronchial glands is not uncommon in adults, it is chiefly in childi'cn that definite symptoms are caused, and the subsequent remarks refer chiefly to them. Pressure effects may be exercised on the fol- lowing parts :—(i.) The trachea and bronchi; (ii.) the lung; (iii.) the blood-vessels; (iv.) the nerves; (v.) the oesophagus; (vi.) the peri- cardium.