CYSTOSCOPE, THE 267 Many cases, differing from tlic above, migiit be quoted to emphasise the importance of cysto- scopy, if space permitted, but those related will serve to show that assistance in diagnosis may be got by its use in (a) tumours, and (/>) calculi of the bladder, and in different affections of the kidney. To detect the presence and nature of foreign bodies the instrument is also valuable. From the point of view of prognosis valuable aid is also got. Thus in tumour of the bladder, if a patient have little bleeding and no pain or frequency of micturition, hut suffers from an irremovable tumour, cystotomy should be avoided as a nde. Rest to the bladder by cj'stotomy may diminisli the rapidity of the growth of the tumour, but it may, on the other liand, permit an intrinsic growth to become extrinsic, so that eventually much greater dis- comfort and a more rapidly fatal result ensues. 'Cystoscopy, by showing the extent and attach- ments of the tumour, may prevent an operation which would be hurtful to the patient; while, on the other hand, it may enable the surgeon more strongly to advocate operation, the diagnosis being certain and the hope of cure probable. The latter point is shown in case 2 quoted above, while the following case illustrates the former:— Case 5.—Mr. R., fct. 58, three months ago, for the first time, had causeless hfematuria which lasted for a few days. He had a second attack ten weeks later, and at the present time suffers from a third attack. There is no other symptoms, and external examination is negative. Tiie urine contains many large midti-nucleated cells. Prostate not enlarged on examination per rectum. Cystoscopic examination showed a tumour attached to the prostate. From its extent and position I believed it to be in- operable, and advised no ojjeration. To decide whether a tumoiu- is operal)le or not is far from easy, and in some cases im- possible, but in other cases there is not much difficulty. If in doubt, I think the patient shoidd have a cystotomy. The cystoscopic examination must be very thorough, and should pi'eferably l)e carried out with different degrees of distension of the bladder. A tumour in an imperfectly distended bladder may appear as a mass, while if the bladder be more fully dis- tended the growth may be seen to l:)e made up of several separate masses affecting a much larger area of the viscus. I have seen this in two cases recently, in one of which cystotomy showed the disease was inoperable, while from cystoscopy I believed the disease could be eradicated. The subject of cystoscopy has in the last ten years been much widened by the introduction of apparatus to treat conditions per urethram, or to catheterise the ureters. Both of these pro- cedures I believe to be of little practical import- ance in the male, and sometimes, indeed, dis- tinctly injurious. In tlio female, however, the method introduced by ],»r. Kelly, of Baltimoi-e, is more valualde ; although short of ureteral catheterisation, equally good results can in the majority of cases be got by the anterior internal light cystoscope without the disadvantage of urethral dilatation incident to the use of Kelly's cystoscope. Examination by Dr. Kelly's instru- ment is simple, and ureteral catheterisation with it can be rapidly executed. A complete account of the instruments required for examina- tion and the technicpie is contained in Kelly's work Operative Gynecology. The fundamental principles of examination are : — 1. The introduction of a simple cylindrical speculum. 2. The atmospheric distension of the bhulder by posture. 3. The illumination and inspection of the bladder by a direct light. The instruments required are : A strong light, a head mirror, vesical specula with obturators, a urethral calibrator and dilator, an evacuator for removing urine, and a ureteral searcher. Local ansesthesia may suffice, and undue dilatation of the urethra is unnecessary. Cystotomy.—The operation of opening into the urinary bladder (for the removal of a calculus or tumour), either by the jjerineal route {median, lateral, or bilateral), by the abdominal {miprapuhic), by the rectal, or by the vaginal route. CytiSine.—An alkaloid (Cj„HjjN._,0), also name<l uh .rinc, found in laburniun seeds (Cytisus I ah urn ton), and acting as a poison. Cyto-. — In compound words cyto- ((Jr. ki'tos, a cell or pot) means relating to a cell. Cytohlast, for instance, is the cell nucleus; cytode is a cell without a nucleus ; eytodia^resis is cell-division; rytogeneds is cell-formation; cytology is the science of cells ; rytomitoma is the reticuhim of the protoplasm of cells ; cyto- plasm is the protoplasm of the cell as dis- tinguished from that of the nucleus (raryoplasm); cytowa are parasites of cells {e.g. psorosperms, such as coccidia). Cytodia.g'nOSiS.—One of the most recent advances in clinical pathology consists in the histological examination of various fluids derived from the patient, whereby their cell content may be qualitatively and quantitatively estimated. Certain secretions which have been altered by disease, and inflammatory and passive exudates, are found to contain cellular elements which vary with the cause of the disease ]u-ocess and with the stage at which this has arrived. It has, of course, long been the custom of care- ful observers to search various secretions and j exudates for histological evidences of new growth I where the presence of this has been suspected. I In pathological urines, too, the various cellular