CHOLERA, EPIDEMIC 121 distinguishable from an ordinary diarrhoea ex- cept by bacteriological examination of the dis- charges. This premonitory diarrha^a usually lasts from half a day to two days before the choleraic symptoms declare themselves, and when promptly treated, the disease is frequently arrested at this stage. This premonitory stage is often enough absent. The actual attack begins with frequent, cop- ious, watery evacuations, at first coloured with bile, but soon becoming pale, having an alkaline reaction. Along with this there is urgent thirst, great discomfort in the bowels, an indescribable feeling at once of intolerable distension of the abdomen and sinking that cannot be understood by those who have not experienced it, nor forgotten by those who have. There is no tenesmus. Tiie stools become more frequent and copious. They flow in streams. No sooner has the patient evacuated, as he thinks, the whole con- tents of the bowel and hopes to obtain a little respite, than he is again disturbed, and again passes an enormous quantity of an odourless, colourless, rice-water li(juid, which on rest deposits fine, flaky particles. After a time vomiting sets in, and so much the sooner, the more freely the jDatient has gratified his craving for water. Large quantities of a pale liquid are ejected forcibly, but without effort, from the mouth. It seems as if it were automatically pumped out. The patient is now extremely restless, tosses ott' the bed-clothes, and although his skin feels cool or cold, he complains of heat. The pulse is rapid and weak, the heart's action feeble. The extremities become cold and blue, the fingers shrivelled and livid ; the temperature in the axilla may fall to 94° or 93° F., sometimes lower ; that of the rectum is several degrees above the normal, and it may be well to remark that the rectal temperature is often higher than normal before the algid state has declared itself. It happens, however, in many cases that the rectal temperature follows closely that of the axilla. The voice becomes weak and hoarse—the so-called vox choJerica ; the eyes are sunken, the eyelids half closed, the face pinched, the breath feels as if it had passed over ice, the tongue gives, as Dr. Watson says, the sensation as if one were touching a frog's belly; the urine is scanty or suppressed. This is the algid stage of cholera. When this state has begun to develop, or even before, painful muscular cramps of the calves, arms, and sometimes of the abdominal muscles, set in, which add greatly to the sufterings of the patient. They are tonic spasms, lasting for two or three minutes. When the algid state is established, the motions usually become scantier and less fre- quent, and are passed in bed. Or they may entirely cease, being retained from a paralysed state of the bowel—a symptom of evil omen. Retching, alternating with hiccup, takes the place of the vomiting. This state may last for a few liom-s only, or persist for one or even two days—perhaps eight to fifteen hours is the average—and terminates in reaction or in death. When the disease is tending to a fatal issue, the patient sinks into an apathetic state, heed- less of what is passing aroimd him, but at the same time conscious. The heart's action grows weaker, the pulse imperceptible at the wrist, scarcely to be felt even in the carotid, the skin becomes covered with a clammy sweat, and the patient dies in a state of collapse. Before the algid stage has set in, or after it has been established, things may take a favour- able turn by the setting in of reaction. The pulse becomes fuller, slower; the impulse of the heart stronger ; the breathing deeper, easier, and less hurried ; the rectal temperature falls, and it is only after this that the surface regains its warmth. The cramps disappear, the retching and purging subside, and the patient falls into a tranquil sleep, from which he awakes refreshed. It is often not until after thirty-six to forty-eight hours that urine is passed. The first urine is of low specific gravity, containing more or less albumin, sometimes blood. In favourable cases the recovery is rapid. But reaction does not necessaril}' imply that all danger is over, for in many cases it introduces a new series of troubles. The reaction may be imperfect, the discharges recur, thirst returns, and the patient, when we were beginning to hope for recovery, falls back into the algid stage. in other cases he lapses into a typhoid condi- tion marked by great debility, more or less stupor, restlessness, especially at night. There is complete anorexia, occasional vomiting, diar- rha3a or constipation, or both alternately, with meteorism, scanty albuminous urine, containing fibrinous casts. After this condition has lasted from four to seven days, the symptoms may gradually improve; in this case the appetite returns, the lu'ine becomes more abundant, the albumin diminishes, and the head symjatoms pass off. In other cases the symptoms become aggra- vated, and the patient falls into a comatose state. It has to be mentioned that typhoid symptoms terminating in death from coma occa- sionally occur, although the urine is abundant and free from albumin. This typhoid condition is all the more likely to supervene the longer the algid state is prolonged. Those who have been addicted to drink seldom recover without exhibiting typhoid symptoms, which in their case are even more dangerous than in others. Gangrene of the penis, scrotum, nose, and of the mucous membranes of the mouth are the rarer sequels of cholera. More frequently the parotid glands become swollen and inflamed, and some- times suppurate.