225 CONVULSIONS, infantilp: tke circumstances which attend them. Hei'e, however, it may be said at once that the same greater signiticance attaches to unilateral con- vulsive attacks in all cases in infancy as to those occurring in later life. Favourable factors are a history of previous good health in the infant, and the presence of some well-defined exciting- cause, such as the onset of one of the exanthe- mata or croupous pneumonia. Tlie prognosis is favourable, too, in cases where the convulsions can be shown to have mainly depended \ipon asphyxia, the cause of which has been removed or recovei'cd from. Where there is a family neurotic history the prognosis should be guarded in the extreme. Caution should be used, too, in pronouncing as to the future of an infant who has suffered from convulsions prestnnably from such slight causes as dentition, bowel dis- turbance, or ascaridcs, for it may well be asked whether a nervous system that has once broken down ;mder such slight causes would not be likely to do so again in the future at any times of cerebral stress or strain beyond the ordinary. Convulsions occurring in the course, not at the onset of scarlet fever, and which are independent of any kidney involvement, are often unilateral at the commencement, and are frequently con- tinued into later life as epilepsy. When the convulsions occur in association with rickets, improvement in the last complaint generally leads to the final disappearance of any disturbance of the nervous system. But even here Sir William Gowers has shown that 10 per cent of adult epileptics have their start in infantile convulsions due to rickets, and in juvenile epileptics the proportion is probal^ly greater. This should lead to a more guarded prognosis than is usually given in cases of rachitic convulsions. Cases where convulsions recur from time to time with- out organic cause are to be regarded in the most serious light, a large proj^ortion of them merging into epilepsy in the near future, while others are probably the subjects of other neuroses in later life. Treat.mext. — During the Attack. — In the majority of instances it is only necessary to loosen the clothing about the neck, chest, and abdomen, and to lay tlie infant in the supine position with the head slightly raised. The infant can then be left to recover from the drowsiness naturally following, or forming part of, the attack. The ordinary domestic remedy, placing the child in hot bath, does no harm probably if the child's health be not too en- feebled. In this last condition, instead of a plain hot'water bath, a mustard one might be tried with advantage for the sake of its well- known stimulating properties. Tlicre is nothing to be said in favour of the other routine remedy, the application of cold to the head, except in the cases whei'e it is used for the express purpose of lowering the temperature. If the unconscious- ness be unduly profound, and especially if it be VOL. II attended with other fits, or threatenings of them, then recourse must be had to more active measures. First amongst these is the inhald.tion of chlo7-oform, which is warmly advocated by Henoch, .John Thomson, and other authorities. Profound unconsciousness is no bar to the use of the di'ug, and usually recovery from the anses- tlietic is accompanied by the return of conscious- ness. Eustace Smith j^raises the hypodermic injection of morphia in these cases in doses of of a grain to an infant of six months old, and says it can be safely repeated, if necessary, in the course of half an hour. The inhalation of nitrite of amy I in one-minim doses has been recommended by some authorities. The admin- istration of chloral by enemata, in doses of about three grains to an infant of six months old, is a valuable remedy for two reasons. If the drug- be retained its sedative action on the nervous system is usually quickly manifested. In other cases its presence in the rectum leads to the evacuation of an especially foul-smelling motion, and this is generally followed by a speedy return of consciousness. If there be any valid reason for suspecting indigestible food to be responsible for the disturbance, then an emetic may be given, followed by a calomel purge. In very exceptional instances there may even be some justification for the employment of the gum lancet. Subsequent Treatment.—For a few days after a fit small doses of one of the bromides, two or three grains, should Ijc given thrice daily. If the child be syphilitic or rickety then the appropriate treatment for these complaints should be vigorously employed. The gi'eatest care should be bestowed on the diet, and on the thorough ventilation of the day and night apartments. Arrangements should be made for the child's head being raised during sleep and the feet being kept warm. If the convulsions recur with any fre([uency, say, every fortnight, or even every month, then a course of bromides should be prescribed. Every attack possibly lessens the resistance in the nerve tracts, so that succeeding fits occur with much slighter exciting- causes than the initial ones. By allowing the fits to continue much more harm may thus be done than any that may possibly arise from the effects of the bromides on the developing tissues. It is difficult to fix a definite time, but perhajjs a freedom of three months from fits should ensue before stopping the bromides. Belladonna, the salts of zinc, digitalis, ergot, musk, and other remedies that have been vaunted from time to time in the treatment of convidsions, are much less efficacious than the bromides. If the bromides fail in checking the convulsions, then borax, in two-grain doses, might be given a trial. Convulsive Tic. — Involuntary mus- cular movements, especially of the face, accom- 15