95 CHEST-WALL, AFFECTIONS OF entails the removal of a portion of the parietal pleura in addition to several ribs, and exposure of the lung. The skin over the tumour should be refleeted in the shape of a large flap, so that it may be possiljle to hermetieally elose the pleural cavity at the end of the operation. Should the lung have collapsed during its performance, it may be confidently expected that it will re-expand and resume its func- tions. While the immediate result of even very formidable operations may be remark- ably successful, the patient usually succumbs to recrudescence of the sarcoma at a later period. Secondary cancer of the sternum and of the ribs is common enough in the advanced stages of cancer of the breast; it is not amenable to surgical interference. Cutaneous Affections of the Chest-Wall The skin of the chest-wall is frequently implicated in the different cutaneous affections. It is the chest that the physician first examines for the eruption of scarlet fever. The rose spots of typhoid fever, while appearing first on the abdomen, if numei'ous, will also be visible on the chest, the other exanthemata showing likewise their characteristic eruption. The macular syphilide appears upon the chest as an isolated blotch varying from the size of a linseed to about the size of the finger nail, the colour ranging from pink to bluish red or even a brownish tint, not disappearing entirely on pressure. Scattered throughout the blotches or following upon them the papular syphilide may be seen somewhat elevated above the surface, varying in size up to a pea, and of a reddish dusky coloiu*. Herpes zoster, the vesicular eruption fomid on the chest along the distribution of an intercostal nerve; pityriasis in its various forms ; chloasma, and other skin affections, will be found fully discussed under their different sections. Pain in the Chest The descriptive localisation of pain given by different sufferers is frequently very misleading; it is well, therefore, in every case to ask the patient to place the hand on the part implicated. Pain complained of in the chest may have an origin outside the thorax and its contents, as in Cardialgia from chronic gastritis or hyper- chloridia, the pain resulting fi'om irritation of sensory fibres in the cardiac end of the stomach and the lower end of the oesophagus, either by the prodiicts of fermentation and putrefaction (acetic acid, fatty acid, lactic acid) or by the hypersecretion of hydrochloric acid. The pain is then localised at about the junction of the seventh costal cartilage with the sternum, and in the back in the left interscapular region. The pain is of a burning character, and is fre- quently relieved by vomiting. In hysteria, especially where there is ovarian irritation, mammary and infra-mammary pain and tender- ness is common. The patient shrinks from the slightest touch, especially if her attention be directed to the part; frequently, but by no means always, if the attention be diverted, the part can be handled without producing pain or shrinking. In these cases the mammary tender- ness will be accompanied by pain on pressure over the ovaries, increasing at the menstrual period, and frequently with hypertesthetic areas in the spinal region. Pain in the chest may be of muscular origin. Myalgia, the so-called muscular rheumatism, when attacking the inter- costal muscles and fascia; is usually spoken of as Pleurodynia. Its connection with rheuma- tism is not always clear; it may result from strain, fatigue, cold, or other injury to the muscle, and from constitutional causes. The pain may be intense; breathing deeply, cough- ing, or manipulation of the muscle causing marked increase of the suffering. It is usually localised to one group of muscles. There may be slight pyrexia, but the constitutional symp- toms are not marked. A good example of the affection is met after severe coughing, when myalgia may develop in the lower intercostal spaces. The pain of myalgia is frequently relieved by resting the aft'ected muscle, a fact which the sufferer soon discovers, assuming an attitude which will throw the affected group of muscles as far as possible out of action. Pain in the chest may be the result of implication of the intercostal nerves. Intercostal neuralgia gives a pain more or less continuous with acute exacerbations, following the line of the inter- costal nerve, with tender points near the spine, the mid-axillai'y line, and near the middle line in front. The pain may be increased by move- ment, deep breathing, coughing, etc., but is not, as a rule, so much affected by these as in other painful chest affections. Occasionally intercostal neuritis may develop; there is more or less severe pain along the line of the affected nerve markedly aggravated by pressure, with possibly other signs of neuritis, and frequently the further development of Herpes zoster. A symmetrical pain along the course of a group of intercostal nerves may develop in the course of affections of the spinal cord and meninges where there is implication of the sensory roots, the most typical example of the condition being found in the so-called girdle pains of tabes dorsalis. While pain in the chest may result from affections of the chest-wall it is frequently a manifestation of grave disorder of the thoracic organs. The heart and pericardium are not normally endowed with any great degree of sensibility, but in disease the sensibility may be greatly exaggerated. In Pericarditis the subjective sensory disturbances vary much.