DRUG ERUPTIONS 430 an acute vesicular erythema in the central parts with a peripheral vivid red and infiltrated border closely resembling erysipelas. In the diminishing use of iodoform since the practice of aseptic surgery has become more general these eruptions are less frequently seen ; but for that very reason it is the more iiecessary for the practitioner to be familiar with their occurrence. Mercury. — Since the introduction of anti- septics into the treatment of wounds every student has been familiar with the eruptions produced by the local action of various mercurial salts upon the skin. These are most commonly erythematous, vesicular, or pustular; or fre- quently a combination of all three. The vesicles are minute, extremely numerous, and almost always become pustulai', especially when situated close to the pilo-sebaceous follicles of the skin. But nearly a century ago Alley called attention to a condition which he called Hydrargyria, following upon the internal administration of mercury, and which he grouped under three main headings as regarded type—the mild., the febrile, and the malifiriMnt. It may be noted here that the association between these eruptions and the internal use of the drug has been denied by one of the highest authorities; but the observations of by far the large majority of modei'n dermatologists amply confirm the older teaching. Almost any of the preparations of mercury may give rise to cutaneous symptoms ; but by common consent the one most frequently found to produce them after internal adminis- tration is calomel. Although Alley's classification is not now generally adopted, most observers are agreed upon the occurrence of two well- defined forms—a mild and a grave. The former is simply an acute eczematous rash accompanied with intense itching and the formation of vesicles, and most frequently distribvited on the inner surfaces of the thighs, the scrotum, the groin, and the lower part of the abdomen. The grave form is merely an exaggerated type of this, in which the vesicles become pustular or even bullous, associated with considerable fever and general malaise, and sometimes with acute inflammations of the related lymphatic glands. Desquamation follows as the patches dry up, and in rare cases repeated exfoliations may occur. It is highly probable that in the glandular cases pyogenic infection has been grafted on by the scratching of the inflamed and itching surface. Stoppage of the drug is generally followed by rapid subsidence of the symptoms ; but where the irritation is great the application of calamine lotion or dusting the part with powdered starch and oxide of zinc affords great relief. Morphin has long been known as having an irritant action on the skin, and pruritus opii was familiar to the earliest writers. When a rash is associated with the tingling and itching of the skin it is invariably erythematous, re- sembling closely the eruption of scarlatina, but confined mainly to the face, neck, and the flexor aspects of the limbs, and preceded by a sensa- tion of local heat and irritation. Desquamation to a slight degree follows as a rule. In rarer cases the erythema is more macular, and the resulting rash morbilliform in character. Sus- pension of the drug is the cure. It has been pointed out, however, that these cases, in which the administration of morphin has been followed by skin eruptions, show under all conditions a degree of marked susceptibility to the other influences of the alkaloid. Quinine, or other preparations derived from cinchona bark, may give rise to eruptions either by external contact or by ingestion. The former maybe typically seen among workers in quinine factories, and is usually confined to those ^sarts which, either by exposure, or by the natural occurrence of folds or creases, ofter the greatest facilities for the prolonged or continuous action of the irritant. These are, for example, the hands, wrists, flexures of joints, inner surfaces of thighs, and the genitals. The eruption is usually eczematous in character, and may be papular, vesicular, or pustular; while in aggravated cases pemphigoid forms are met with, associated with the formation of extensive scales and crusts which leave frequently on separation red and oodematous or oozing surfaces. Removal of the irritant and the local application of calamine or subacetate of lead lotion, with the addition of liquor carbonis detergens (3iss. ad §x.), rapidly allay the discomfort and promote the cure. It has been observed, however, that no immunity is acquired by exposure, and the individual is always liable to a recurrence on resumption of the offending occupation. The eruptions following the internal adminis- tration of quinine are essentially polymorphous, varying from the most elementary to the most complicated forms of cutaneous lesion. Thus erythematous, urticarial, papular and vesicular, petechial, bullous, and gangrenous forms have been described (Morrow). In the large majority of cases—almost two-thirds—the rash is scarla- tiniform, and hence its clinical significance. It is of a bright, vivid redness, completely dis- appearing on pressure, and showing itself first in the face and neck, but rapidly becoming generalised over the whole surface of the body. There is generally considerable, and sometimes severe, congestion of the mucous covering of the palate and fauces; and when the onset of the eruption is associated with high fever (as in a few recorded cases), and followed by a desquamation lasting from a few days to several weeks, the mimicry is complete, and the diagnosis from scarlatina is a matter of great difficulty and doubt for prophylactic reasons. The absence of high fever, as a rule, and of precedent gastric disturbances is generally conclusive, but the demonstration of quinine in