245 COUGH of the Larynx.—In simple and in membranous lai-yngitis the cough is commonly hoarse, bark- ing, and imperfect, or, as is usually said, croupy. In ulceration or thickening of the mucous mem- brane of tlie larynx the cough may be husky and imperfect, or may be loud and clanging. When a malignant tumour or an aneurysm presses npon the trachea, or involves the re- current laryngeal nerve, the cough is commonly loud, resonant, and brassy, and has been com- pared to the cry of a g;iaider. In paralysis of both vocal cords the patient is unable to cough; in abductor paralysis, whether unilateral or bilateral, the cough is luiaiTected ; in adductor paralysis there is per- fect cough combined with aphonia. Diseases of the Lungs. — In bronchitis the cough is at first short and dry, and may be painful; as secretion increases it becomes moist, and may be pai'oxysmal. Severe paroxysmal cough may be present in fibroid 2^ht}dsis, and, more characteristically, in bronchiectasis. In phthisis cough is one of the early symptoms. At first it is dry and hacking; later it becomes loose, and is attended with muco-purulent or purulent expectoration. When cavities develop the cough may become paroxysmal, and is often most severe in the morning. Occasionally advanced, and even advancing, phthisis may be present with entire or almost entire absence of cough. This occurs especially in lunatic patients. In /meunionia the cough is frequent, short, dry, restrained, and associated with severe pain in the side. In acute pleurisy cough is usually, but not always, present. It is seldom so dis- tressing as in acute pneumonia. The paroxysmal cough of pertussis is very characteristic. A series of coughs follow each other so rapidly that no inspiration can occur. The patient becomes cyanosed, the veins of the forehead and scalp Ijcconie distended, the eyes become prominent, and the tongue is often pro- truded. Bleeding from the nose may occur. At last a sudden inspiration takes place with a loud whoop. This may be followed immediately by a second or by several series of coughs and whoops before the paroxysm is over. At the end of the paroxysm a quantity of mucus is generally expelled with some violence, and in young children vomiting is usual. During the paroxysm the child seizes hold of its nui-se or of some piece of furniture for support, in order to give purchase to the accessory muscles of respiration. In pertussis the cougli is apt to be most troublesome at night. Enlarged glands at the root of the lung may give rise to very severe and persistent coughing, sometimes paroxysmal in character, either by pressure on a bronchus or by irritation of branches of the vagus. When symptoms of pressure on a bronchus are absent it is often difficult to make out the cause of the cough. Eustace Smith has called attention to a physical sign often met with in these cases. If the child is made to throw tlie head as far back as possible, a limit is heard on auscultation over the manubriinn sterni which disappears when the head is brought forward again. He attri- butes the murnuir to pressure on the left innominate vein. It must never be forgotten that the irritation of the pulmonary branches of the vagus giving rise to cough may itself be secondary to some otlier condition ; for example, measles, typhoid fever, or some other infectious disease; to chronic heart disease or to Bright's disease. Diseases of the Heart.—Pericarditis is some- times attended by a hard painful cough. Valvular disease, and especially mitral stenosis and mitral incompetence during the stage of failing compensation, are accompanied by cough, often with watery or blood-stained expectoration. Aneurysm of the aorta may give rise to very distressing cough, either by direct pressure on trachea or bronchus, or by irritation of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Any condition in which the heart's action is feeble, and where consequently the circulation through the lung is carried on imperfectly, may give rise to a troublesome cough. Diseases of the Abdominal Viscera. — The " stomach cough" associated with indigestion has already been mentioned. The existence of a true "stomach cough" has l)een doubted, and it may lie admitted that such a diagnosis may legitimately be regarded with some scepticism. In many cases of the kind the cough appears to be due to pharyngeal irritation associated with the dyspepsia. The irritation produced by entozoa is said occasionally to give rise to cough. Cough may be present in pathological condi- tions of the ovaries and tubes, and pregnancy is also regarded as an occasional cause. Nervous Cough.—The term " nervous cough " may be applied to all forms of cough in which no cause of local irritation can be discovered. Nervous cough may be a mere habit, more annoying to the hearer than to the subject. Its occurrence is often associated with emotion, I^articularly the emotion of speaking in public. Some forms of nervous cough have already been referred to. Hysterical cough is comparatively common in cases of hysteria. It may be very severe and persistent, and give rise to serious apprehensions as to the condition of the lungs. The periodical night cough occurs in children. The cough comes on in paroxysms about the middle of the night, and may last for several hours. It is probably often due to irritation of the vagus b}' enlarged lymph nodes. About the time of pidjerty a loud barking cough, recurring at frequent intervals, is not uncommon in boys of neurotic constitution. Diagnosis. — Some forms of cough, such as the cough of pertussis or of aneurysm, are very