CHOREA 136 execute any voluntary movement; thus the patient can still write or thread a needle, even when the disease is far advanced. Even up to a late stage the patient is able to walk, but the gait is often curiously irregular. The trunk and limbs undergo irregular spon- taneous movements, the patient often suddenly standing still after walking a few steps. Sensation is normal. The deep reflexes are generally somewhat increased. The heart is unaffected. Mental weakness is usually present, com- mencing as mere " facility" and gradually advancing towards a degree of dementia. The patient is often depressed, and suicidal tendencies have sometimes been observed. The patient may at first be irritable or excitable, but, as the disease progresses, the mental state usually be- comes one of apathy. The mental affection is an insidious one and generally develops some years later than the muscular restlessness, but this is not invariably the case. Mental weak- ness may precede the motor phenomena. The disease is an incurable one and its symp- toms persist throughout life, but life is not necessarily shortened thereby. The complaint may last from ten to thirty years, and the patient ultimately dies either from exhaustion or from some intercurrent affection. Diagnosis.—This disease is distinguished from common chorea chiefly by the history of heredity, which in ordinary chorea is very rare ; also by the age of onset, the tendency to dementia, the prolonged duration, and the progressive nature of the malady. Chorea senilis, which may either be chorea minor occurring at an advanced age, or may be a variety of chronic progressive chorea, is free from any hereditary tendency and unassociated with progressive dementia. Pathology.—As in chorea minor, the essential pathology of this disease is quite obscure. It is probably a degenerative process affecting the cortical motor neurons. Very various morbid appearances have been found at autopsies, in- cluding slight diffuse chronic meningitis, changes similar to those of general paralysis of the insane, pachymeningitis htemorrhagica, dissemi- nated miliary nodules of chronic inflammation scattered in the white and grey matter, etc., but these are all probably accidental, and not essential to the disease. Treatment can only be symptomatic. Arsenic is of little or no use. Tonics and various sedatives may be tried, but therapeutic results have, so far, been entirely negative. Chronic Progressive Chorea Apart from Huntington's chorea, other forms of chronic progressive chorea occur unassociated with any hereditary tendency. Isolated cases may begin in old age, in adult life, and recently have also been observed in adolescence {develoj)- mental chorea). These cases are distinguished from ordinary chorea by their duration and by the absence of rheumatic affections or of cardiac complications. The motor symptoms are exactly those of chorea minor, but they become progressively worse and last throughout the patient's life. Such varieties of chorea are obviously different from ordinary chorea minor, which, though it tends to relapse, ultimately in most cases be- comes cured. They are probably dependent on a chronic degenerative process in the cells of the motor cortex, rather than upon any toxin, as in the case of chorea minor. Electrical Chorea (Dubini's disease) This is a very rare endemic disease, which occurs chiefly in Northern Italy and Lombardy. It has been observed in both sexes and at all ages. The disease is a progressive one. It com- mences with a short stage of pains in the head, neck, or spine, soon followed by involuntary spasmodic movements which differ from those of ordinary chorea in being short, sudden, and shock-like, similar to those elicited by electrical stimulation. These contractions usually commence locally in one arm or one side of the face, later they attack the leg on the same side, and at last they cross over and invade the muscles of the opposite side. In addition, there are sometimes epilepti- form convulsions, which may be unilateral. As the disease j^rogresses, paralytic pheno- mena are superadded, commencing in those limbs in which the contractions were earliest and most marked. The palsy, which is accom- panied by muscular atrophy and diminution of faradic excitability, spreads all over the body and becomes general. There may be consider- able elevation of temperature. Throughout the disease the mind is unaffected. The complaint may last for days, weeks, or months, and is usually fatal. Death results from cardiac failure or from coma. Only in a few cases does recovery take place. The nature of the disease is undetermined. No constant morbid changes have been found. On the whole, it seems probable that the disease is due to some toxin of endemic origin which attacks first the cerebral cortex and secondarily the spinal cord. Diagnosis.—This disease has not been observed except in Italy. Elsewhere the only complaints which may simulate electrical chorea are myo- clonus multiplex {q.v. " Muscles, Diseases of the ") and certain varieties of hysterical spasm, both of which conditions have only to be known in order to be readily distinguished from Dubini's disease. The so-called Chorea major (Chorea magna) must be carefully differentiated from all the truly " choreic " disorders. It is not a chorea at all, but merely a variety of hysteria easily distinguished from true chorea.