EAR: ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE MIDDLE EAR 488 advantage, but it is necessary that the medica- ment should come into actual contact with the membrane if it is to ease the pain. The anaes- thetic action of pure carbolic acid in glj^cerine, 1 part in 10, has been highly praised, but as a general rule we have eiiiployed the following drops with excellent results in relieving the pain and lessening the local inflammation :— R Cocain. hydrochlor. . . gr. vj. Acidi carbolici . . . gr. vj. Glycerin! 5ij. M. Tea drops of this mixture can be warmed and put into the ear when the pain is troublesome, care baing taken to move the auricle backwards and forwards until the drops have reached the mem- brane. Ii:i addition to this, Gruber's medicated gelatine preparations, or solutions containing morphine, atropiiae, lead and opiiim, and many other substances, may be used with advantage. Mustard and other counter-irritants applied over the mastoid may allay pain, but they also may mask the onset of mastoiditis, and therefore are better avoided. AVhen these measures fail to give relief in a short while, it may be necessary to perform paracentesis of the membrane. The indications for this procedure are great pain and bulging of the membrane from excess of secretion. Even when the presence of exudation is doubtful an incision may be recommended, for it greatly eases the pain, and heals very rapidly if no suppurative condition is-' found. In a com- mencing purulent inflammation, and specially in scarlatinal cases, it is well to incise early, for not only is the pain thus alleviated, but there is likely to be less destruction of the sub- stance of the membrane than there will be if we wait for spontaneous rupture. Paracentesis is performed with a slender, spear-shaped knife fitted to a bent handle, and when using this a good light should always be reflected on to the membrane, and every antiseptic precaution attended to. The incision should be of sufficient size to allow the free escape of the retained secretion, and the point usually selected for it is in the posterior inferior quadrant. In children it will generally be necessary to administer a general anaesthetic, but in adults this can usually be dispensed with, for though the pain is very severe it is only momentary. After the opening has been made the meatus should be plugged with sterilised wool, and the ear should not be syringed at all unless there is an imdoubted discharge of pus from the incision. Whenever the acute symptoms have begun to subside it is well to commence inflating the tympanum by one of the recognised methods, whether a perforation exists or not. This has the effect of opening up the Eustachian tube, restoring the normal pressure of the air in the cavity, and dislodging the viscid secretion from around the ossicles, while if a rupture has taken place it will drive the exudation from the tympanum into the meatus, from which position it can easily be removed. The inflation by Politzer's method should be continued for some weeks, say two or three times a week, in order to prevent the formation of adhesions, or to stretch them if they have already formed. When one ear alone requires inflation, and this requires to be done for a long time, the force of the air douche may over-distend the membrane of the good ear. This can be guarded against by making the patient press firmly with his finger on the tragus of the sound ear in order to counteract the force of the air, or the Eustachian catheter may be substituted for Politzer's bag. When the third stage, that of purulent dis- charge, has become established, whether after spontaneous perforation or paracentesis, it is necessary to syringe the ear with some unirritat- ing antiseptic lotion. For general use warm boric lotion will answer best, the meatus being thoroughly dried out with absorbent medicated wool after each occasion. It is hardly necessary to particularise the various lotions that have been recoiumended for this purpose; it is suffi- cient to say that almost any antiseptic lotion may be used, provided we keep before us the objects to be attained, viz. perfect cleanliness and dryness. The insufflation of a little finely-powdered boracic acid or iodoform often helps to dry up the secretion, but when the perforation is small it should be avoided, as it may cause a mechani- cal obstruction to the escape of the discharge. Still, when the perforation is of good size and the discharge has begun to lessen in quantity, this method of treatment is very effective in finally drying up the secretion. Along with the local treatment it is necessary to attend to any nose or throat condition which may be present. Pharyngitis and naso-pharyn- geal catarrh should be promptly treated, and it will often do much good to spray the nose with a mild alkaline solution. It must not be for- gotten that adenoids, with hypertrophied tonsils, are the cause of many attacks of acute middle ear catarrh, and the operative treatment of these should only be delayed until the acute ear symptoms have passed offi The removal of the adenoids must be looked upon as one of the most important preventive measures against the i-ecurrence of otitic attacks. Occasionally pain and swellingover the mastoid may, at a very early period, indicate the appear- ance of a superficial mastoid abscess, and when this is the case it is proper to make a free incision down to the bone, and a little behind the auricle, in order to evacuate the pus. It must be remembered, however, that in such cases, almost without exception, the mastoid cells will be full of pus, and that a minute sinus communicating with the sujjcrficial collection of