58 CASTELLAMARE Ca.stella,ma.re. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Italy). Casteliamari di Stabia. See Balneology {Italy, Bay of Naples). Castor. — The dried preputial follicles (with their secretion) of the beaver (Castor Fiber); it contains a resinous matter, castorin. It is known officially as Mosckus or 3Ius/c {q.v.). Castor Oil. See Constipation ; Phar- macology ; Prescribing ; Purgatives ; etc.— Oleum Ricini, the oil expressed from the seeds of Ricinus communis, consisting chiefly of glyceryl ricinoleate, C^\l^{G^^Y{^^(}.^)^, or ricin- oleine, a fixed oil soluble in alcohol; ricinine, which has been described as an alkaloid with a formula of Co^HgjN-Oj, is doubtfully so, and has no purgative properties; another constituent is ricin, an albuniosc resembling in its action the abrin of jequirity seeds. The dose of castor oil is 1 to 8 fl. dr. It has a nasty taste and smell, only partly concealed in the official Mistura Olei Ricini (dose, 1 to 2 fl. oz.). Indeed, no plan of getting over the difficulty of the taste succeeds so well as the holding of the nose till the drug has been washed over the fauces by such a liquid as cofiee ; for if the nose be held only during the swallowing of the oil the smell is apt to pass up the posterior nares and cause nausea. Castor oil is a very valuable simple purgative, and is specially use- ful in children, in pregnant and puerperal women, and in adults and old people of both sexes who may be suffering from haemorrhoids. It may be given, with olive oil, as an enema. Externally, it is used sometimes as a sedative in cases of conjunctivitis {e.g. due to the intro- duction of an irritant into the eye), when it can be dropped into the eye, either alone or in combination with cocaine. Castration. See Obesity {Sex); Pros- tate Gland, Hypertrophy {Treatment, Radical); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Excision of the Testicle). Casts. See Bronchi, Bronchitis {MorUd Anatoiny); Hematuria {BloodCasts); Nephritis {Clinical Features, The Urine); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Casts, hyaline, amyloid, epithelial, hlood, leucocyte, granular, fatty, and uratic). Cata-. — In compound words "cata-" (or "kata-") has generally the sense of "down," "downward," "descending," "declining"; but sometimes it means "perverted" or "thorough." It is contained in many words (as well as in those specially named below), such as catacasmus (deep scarification), catacausis (deep burning, or, perhaps, " spontaneous combustion "), catachysis (a douche), cataclysm (a clyster), catadioptric (reflecting and refracting), cataplasm (a plaster), cataptosis (an apoplectic or epileptic fit), etc. Cataboiism.—Catabolism (or kata- bolism) means the descending, disruptive, or disintegrating changes which may take place in metabolism, in contradistinction to the ascend- ing, synthetic, or constructive series of changes which constitute anabolism. CatabythismuS.—Suicide by drown- ing. Catabythismornania is the form of suicidal mania which seeks to accomplish its end by drowning. Cataiase.—An enzyme or zymin found in many tissues, and capable of breaking up hydrogen peroxide. Catalepsy. See also Hypnotism ; Hysteria; Hysteria in Childhood; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Cataleptic Stupor) ^ Spasm {Hysterical). Etiology . . . . . .58' Symptoms ...... 58 Treatment ...... 59" Prognosis ...... 59' Nature and Pathology .... 59 Definition.—Catalepsy is a nervous affection characterised by a plastic rigidity of voluntary muscles; by unconsciousness, including the abeyance of common and special sensibility; and by the abeyance of reflex irritability. Etiology.—Females are disproportionately predisposed to catalepsy, and the period of adolescence is a common age for its occurrence. The affection is predisposed to by any conditions which make for neurasthenia; it has obvious katamenial relations in many cases; and, both in males and females, there are usually some suggestions of hysteria. Very commonly the first attack is occasioned by some mental or nervous incident of a violent nature—a fire, an assault, great religious excitement, a fall, a sun- stroke, a sudden affliction, and similar emotional or nervous shocks. Cataleptiform affections may appear in association with that form of insanity called stupor, with hysteria, with tetanus, with chorea, and with epilepsy, so as. to suggest an etiological relationship. Symptoms.—The first attack of catalepsy may be quite unexpected. But the affection is apt to be paroxysmal and even periodic. Even in such cases the patient may be quite well be- tween times, but it is very commonly the case that a more or less sudden giddiness, or head- ache, neuralgia, hiccough, or visual disorders immediately precede a seizure. Therein we observe a first resemblance to epilepsy, and, to appreciate the condition, we must constantly keep that comparison in mind. Whether there has been warning of some minutes or longer, or if there has been none.