284 DEFORMITIES Suppression of tlie Fingers. — These are of interest rather to the teratologist than to the surgeon. If the hand is very unsightly or use- less, amputation of it is the best resource, and a good artificial hand is to be preferred. Webbed Fingers '-or Syndactylism.—There are three varieties. (1) Two fingers, generally those on the inner side of the hand, are united by skin and fibrous tissue. (2) The union is by muscular as well as fibrous tissue and skin. (3) The bones are fused throughout their whole length, or more often at the second and third phalanges only. Treatment.—In the second variety little can be done, and the case is often best left alone. In the first and third varieties the chief diffi- culty after operation is to prevent some re- formation of the web, especially towards the base of the new cleft. This difficulty can be overcome either by the formation of a per- manent opening at the bottom of the web by transfixing it with a silver pin or by Uidot's operation, or by those operations known by the names of Zeller and Norton. Choice of opera- tion— (1) If the w^eb is small and thin, or if the union between the fingers is very close, the formation of a permanent opening at the base of the web is to be preferred. The web may be divided subsequently, and its edges trimmed and sutured. (2) If the web is extensive, com- plete, and of good width, Didot's operation is the best. (3) If the web is incomplete and reaches but halfwa}', Zeller's or Norton's opera- tion is indicated. Hypertrophy of the Fingers.—This condition is sometimes seen at birth in a minor degree, and becomes exaggerated later. The hyper- trophy may consist of general overgrowth of all the tissues of the finger, lymphatic enlarge- ment of the subcutaneous tissue, or a na3void condition of all the soft structures. Treatment.—Compression of the fingers and ligature of the arteries have been both tried, but without success. AVhen the finger becomes a source of annoyance it should be removed. Congenital and Lateral Deviation of the Fingers.—This is very rare indeed, but is com- parable to a condition seen in the toes. It may be treated either by a suitable apparatus, or by division of the lateral ligaments, or by amputa- tion. Acquired Deformities.—Under this heading are comprised Dupuytren's contraction, spring finger, and mallet finger. DupmytrerCs Contraction.—Definition.—pei"- manent flexion of one or more fingers arising from contraction of the palmar fascia and its digital prolongations. Occurrence and Etiology.—It is many times more frequent in men than in women. As a rule the ring and little fingers are affected, but it may spread to other fingers. In some cases it is distinctly hereditary. The age at which it comes on is generally in middle or in late life—that is, when fibroid changes super- vene. Occupations seem to have some share in its production, especially those that involve repeated traumatism to the palm of the hand, as in gai'deners, drivers, engravers, etc. In some instances it would appear as if the con- traction began after a definite injury to the palm—a slight wound, a sudden bruise, or an excessive strain of the structures. Certain general conditions seem to predispose to it, as, for instance, gout and rheumatism, or the con- traction appears to be much more common in gouty and rheumatic people, and to follow sometimes an attack of gout. Other people have noticed it to be associated with syphilis, and Mr. William Anderson has hazarded the opinion that it is of bacterial origin. Its morbid anatomy is as follows :—The affec- tion is primarily a contraction of the fascia, and secondly of the skin. The tendons have nothing to do with it. The palmar fascia is not a well- defined aponeurosis, but fades oft' gradually at its edges and gives oft" two sets of processes, the superficial to the skin and the deep to the lateral aspect of the fingers, passing to the sides of the first and second phalanges, and to the })eriosteum and to the tendon sheaths. The nature of the morbid change in the fascia is a fibroid hypertrophy. Sometimes this appears in the form of small fibromata, in others there is a general thickening of the bands, followed by contraction. Crystals of urate of soda have been foinid in the thickened fascia. Symptoms.—At first there is a feeling of tight- ness in the palm of the hand and in the ring or little finger, and the patient finds some diflSculty in fully extending the fingers. Later there appears noduliir indurations with adhesions of the skin. The latter is first seen usually in the transverse crease of the palm. The affected fingers then begin to retract, and the first phalanx flexes on the metacarpal bone. Treatment.—No measures except operative are of any avail. The operative measures are either multiple subcutaneous division of the contracted band as jjractised by Mr. Adams, or open removal by a careful dissection of the palm of the hand. The method to be preferred is the multiple subcutaneous puncture. The operation may have to 1)e repeated two or three times. After the operation a Dupuytren's splint is worn, and the fingers are gradually straight- ened. The result is as a rule very good, and relapses are not frequent. The writer has performed the open method several times in hospital patients, who cannot afford time to attend frequently, and he has been satisfied with the result. Spring Finger, known also as Jerk or Snap Finger.—The description of this affection is that if the patient closes all tiie fingers on the palm.