86 CHEST, CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF THE heart. When percussing posteriorly strong percussion must be used, except at the lower margins of the lungs. The patient should be bending slightly forward with the arms sym- metrical and the head straight, for if the head be not straight, differing tension of the muscles over the apex will give rise to an alteration in the percussion sound. The normal thoracic percussion sound got on striking over a thick layer of healthy resonant lung may be described as an ample percussion sound of considerable duration, low in pitch, and of a clear tone. In disease the resonance of the sound may be increased; the sound may be hyper-resonant. Slight hyper-resonance is got in emphysema, more marked on percussing over relaxed lung, as above a pleural effusion, or where exudation and air-containing tissue are intimately mixed, as in oedema, early pneumonia, etc. Marked hyper-resonance is met in pneiimo- thorax, pneumopericardium. The resonance of the sound may be diminished—the sound is dull. Comparative dulness is got where there is some pleural thickening, in early phthisis, etc.; dulness where the consolidation is more advanced, as in pneumonia; absolute dulness is found typically in effusion into the pleura. In some cases the percussion sound may have a special quality, as the crack-pot sound, the am- phoric sound, the bell sound. Auscultation.—'Next auscultate the lungs. Note the inspiratory and expiratory phase of the breath sound, their relative duration, their pitch and intensity, and the presence or absence of a pause between them, and thus deduce the type of the breath sound. The normal type of breath sound heard all over the lung except at the interscapular region is vesicular. Inspiration is a gentle continuous rushing sound; expiration a thinner, fainter sound, which at times may not be audible; in- spiration is three times as long as, and passes directly into, expiration. In disease this vesicu- lar murmur becomes altered. The breath sound may be harsh, as heard in the normal child's chest, or over the healthy lung when the other is rendered functionless, as in pneumonia or pleurisy with effusion. Harsh vesicular breath- ing with prolonged expiration is heard in slight consolidation of the lung, as in tuberculosis, the audible part of expiration being prolonged. Wavy, jerky, or interrupted vesicular breathing may be nervous in origin, but it usually results from delay in the entrance of air into the pulmonary bronchi through catarrh giving rise to obstruction, and when localised is to be re- garded with suspicion. Clinically it is found in early tuberculous infiltration, bronchitis. Faint- ness or absence of the breath sounds may be present if the sound vibrations produced at the larynx and upper part of the respiratory tract are cut off by obstruction of a bronchus, effusion into the pleural sac, thickening of the pleura, etc. When in disease the sound vibrations pro- duced at the naso-pharynx, pharynx, and larynx are not damped down by passing through spongy air-containing lung, the sound over the chest has the same characters as at its point of production, and, being similar to the sound heard on listening over a bronchus, is called bronchial. Inspiration and expiration are about equal in length, they are separated by a distinct pause and have a blowing quality. Three kinds of bronchial breath sounds are recognised, dis- tinguished according to their pitch. High- pitched or tubular breathing; medium-pitched or simple bronchial; low-pitched or cavernous. The simple or medium-pitched variety is heard where the lung is a better conductor of sound, as in consolidation in phthisis. The high-pitched variety, more intense and harsh in character, is found where consolidation is more complete, as in croupous pneumonia. The low-pitched or cavernous variety differs from the other varieties in its pitch and in having a distinctly hollow quality. It is heard over cavities in the lung, phthisical or bronchiectatic. Broncho-vesicular Breathing.—The type of breath sound heard in health in the interscapular region and over the manubrium sterni possesses some of the characters of bronchial and some of the characters of vesicular breathing. Patho- logically it indicates some slight increase in the conducting power of the lung, as in early tuber- culous infiltration. Amjjhoric breathing, a rare variety, has a hollow whistling character. Like bronchial, it may be high, medium, low pitched. It may be heard over a pneumothorax where there is free communication between the pleura and a bronchus, or over smooth-walled cavities having free communication with a bronchus. Accompaniments. — Having determined the type of the breath sounds, notice the presence or absence of accompaniments. If present they may be extra-pulmonary, such as friction. Intra- pulmonary accompaniments may be dry rales or rhonchi, snoring, cooing, whistling, or creaking sounds due to an alteration in the lumen of a bronchial tube, as in asthma or bronchitis, or there may be moist rales or crepitations, sounds which convey to the ear the idea of the bursting of small bubbles or the crackling of hair rubbed between the fingers. Examine next the vocal resonance, asking the patient to repeat ninety-nine, or one, one, one. In health the sound vibrations are conducted to the stethoscope altered by their passage down the column of air in the respiratory tract and through the chest-wall. In disease when the lung is consolidated, as in phthisis, pneumonia, the soimd is increased. When the sound is markedly increased, it is called bronchopihony. The sound vibrations are diminished or lost when there are diminished facilities for their conduction, as when a bronchus is plugged.