408 DISINFECTION But Koch recognised the difference between his empty air-tight box and a furnished room with leakage by doors and windows, and showed that even in his experimental chamber similar cultures covered by a cloth or in a few folds of filtering paper were protected from the action of the gas. Again, medical men who clearly appreciate the uses and action of sublimate solutions of 1 in 1000 or in 2000 respectively, are found advising the addition of indefinite quantities of the reagent to still more indefinite volumes of excreta or sewage, by dilution with which the proportion of the sublimate would be in- stantly reduced to anything between 1 in 10,000 and in infinity ; whereas the quantity of the reagent to be used should be calculated on the liquid to be disinfected, as by adding 2 oz. of a 1 per cent solution to a pint, or 16 oz. to a gallon of the excreta, if a strength of 1 in 1000 is desired. Even then the fluid mixture should be agitated, and, if thick, be diluted before treat- ment, for the dense coagula formed by the action of the sublimate on albuminoid matter may otherwise enclose and protect the bacteria, so that disinfection is incomplete. The insufiiciency of sulphur fumigations as commonly performed may be demonstrated by placing one silver coin on a table and another in the pocket of a coat during the process, when the former will be found blackened and the latter scarcely tarnished. Heat as a Disinfectant.—Heat is the most certain means of disinfection. Our exact know- ledge of its efficacy dates from the investigations of Koch, Wolfhiigel, Gaff'ky, and Loeffler in 1881, whose conclusions were that— (1) Non-sporiferous bacteria cannot survive \\ hour's exposiire to hot air at 100° C.; (2) spores of moulds are not killed by \\ hour's exposure to hot air at 110°-115° C; (3) spores of bacilli are killed only after 3 hours in hot air at 140° C. They experimented on the B. anthracis, but those of tuberculosis, according to Bonhoff" and Fdrster, die in 1 hour at 60° C., in 5 minutes at 90° C, and in 1 minute at 100° C. But few fabrics, if any, can stand long ex- posure to such temperatures in dry air without serious damage, and several hours are required for the heat to penetrate the interior of mat- tresses or bales of goods. Moist heat is, however, far more eff'ectual, and does not injure the majority of fabrics, leather being the most im- portant exception ; while exposure to saturated steam at 100° C. for 15 minutes suffices to kill even such resistant organisms as the B. anthracis and its spores. Whether steam is more energetic at high pressures, as 20 lbs. to the square inch, than at lower pressure is, though probable, not determined; but its power of penetration is undoubtedly greater, and consequently a shorter exposiu'e is necessary, and there is less con- densation of moisture on the articles submitted to it. An incidental advantage is found in the fact that where steam power is employed for other purposes it is always worked at high pressure, and may be utilised for the disinfect- ing apparatus, though the initial cost of the stronger chamber required Avill be greater. The penetration of the steam may be accelerated by intermittent raising and lowering of the pressure, the steam being let off", and after some miniites turned on again. The removal of the moisture of condensation is facilitated by pro- ducing a partial vacuum, and then admitting dry hot air at atmospheric pressure. The ex- haustion is best effected by passing a jet of steam across the mouth of a pipe communicat- ing with the chamber xmtil the gauge indicates a " vacuum " of 20 inches, when air is admitted at atmospheric pressure by a pipe surrounded by a steam coil that raises its temperature to 105° C. ; and the creation of a " vacuum " pre- viously to the admission of the steam is, as regards its penetration, eqiiivalent to raising its pressure, and permits of equally rapid disin- fection at lower temperatures, with consequent less risk of injury to the goods, a temperature of 105° C. being vmder these circumstances as effective as one of 120° C. would be otherwise. Washington Lyon's apparatus is perhaps the best, as it is the most costly. Beck's fixed and portable are excellent, and much less expensive ; and Thresh's and Defries' " Eqiiifex " have each features to recommend them. Chemical Disinfectants.—Innumerable inor- ganic and organic bodies possess more or less of germicidal properties, and numbers of these, alone or in combination, have been put on the market as proprietary preparations, but too often of unknown and very uncertain composi- tion, some being good, though their value be exaggerated, while others are feeble almost to inertness. Chemical disinfectants may be considered imder the several heads of (1) oxidisers, bodies giving off oxygen in the nascent or atomic state, and therefoi'e very active; (2) halogens, or bodies evolving chloiine, bromine, or iodine in the nascent state ; (3) oxides of nitrogen; (4) caustic alkalies; (5) acids; (6) metallic salts (7) the phenols and their derivatives; and (8) formic aldehyd. (!) Ozone and hydrogen peroxide are unstable combinations, easily breaking up and setting free oxygen in the atomic state, thus O3 = 0, -f 0 and H^Oo = H2O -t- 0, but they are too expensive for practical use. In " sanitas," however, prepared by passing air through oils of turpentine, camphor, etc., floated on water, there is much H2O2 and some O3 formed in the slow oxidation of the "essential" oils; and potassium permanganate, in the pres- ence of acids or of organic matter, especially