COCAINE 171 its use in the latter cases must be strongly con- demned on account of the risk of development of the cocaine haliit. Drawbacks to the Use of Cocaine.—One of the greatest dangers attending the use of cocaine is the development of the cocaine habit. This habit is frequently secondary to morphinism, but may be developed from the medicinal use of the drug. In one of several cases which have come luider the writer's notice, the habit developed in a chemist who was wont to resort to a cocaine snufF to relieve a chronic nasal catarrh. The "coca wines" so recklessly pressed upon the public as useful " tonics " are also a source of danger (see " Morpiiinomania and Allied Drug Habits "). When used with caution untoward eftccts are not common, but such have occasionally occurred, especially after the too free application of solutions to the nose and throat. Symptoms noted have been giddiness, faintness, pallor, feebleness of the pulse, great dyspnoea, and final collapse into unconsciousness. It is diflicult to keep solutions sterile, and it must be remembered that solutions cannot be boiled without destroying the cocaine. EucAiNE.—To obviate the disadvantages, and even dangers, occasionally attending the use of cocaine, eilbrts have been made to produce some substance free from these drawbacks. These have residted in the introduction into practice of two synthetic pi-oducts known as eucaine, both of extremely complex composition. For convenience these are distinguished as alpha-eucaine and beta-eucaine. The former of these was found to be less toxic than cocaine and to be an efficient anaesthetic, but, unfor- tunately, when applied to delicate mucous membranes it produced a great deal of smarting and irritation, and thus was unsuited for ophthalmological work. For beta-encaine it is claimed that it is equal to cocaine in anaesthetic proj^erties, that it is much less toxic, and that it does not cause local irritation. It is soluble in distilled water to the extent of 5 per cent, and the solution can be sterilised by boiling. Moreover, the solutions keep well. Beta-eucaine may be used for all the surgical procedures for which cocaine is adapted, and in solutions of from 2 to 10 per cent. The stronger solutions must be made with hot water. For ophthalmological work a 2 per cent solution is recommended. It diiTers from cocaine in that it produces no dilatation of the pupil, and no distur])ance of accommodation. Another point of difference is that it causes little or no con- traction of turgid mucous membranes, a point which may be an advantage or a disadvantage according to what is desired. Cocainisation, Spinal. See Spine, St'iiciCAi, Ai'i'Ki"noxs of {Spina/ Cocamisatiori). CoCCidiOSiS.—A disease common in young rabbits, due to the presence of the sporozoa, known as coccidia, in the liver and other organs; psoro - spermiasis. See Parasites (Frotozoa, Sporozoa). Coccidium.—There are various species of coccidia, including the C. hominis, C. mniculi, and C. avmm: they are all parasitic and belong to the class sporozoa of the Protozoa; they infest rabbits and birds, and have occasionally been found in the liver and intestine of the human subject. ,S'ee CocciDiosis ; Parasites {Protozoa, Spjorozoa). COCCUIUS IndiCUS.—The dried fruits (Gr. k6kko>;, a berry) of Anemirta paniculata, which contain the poisonous glucoside (?) picro- toxine, which has the fornnda of Cj^Hji-O,;, H./J, or CjgH^^Ojg, or CgH^^O^. See Toxicology {AlJcaloids and Vef/etahle Poisons). Coccus.—(1) Cochineal, or the dried fecun- dated female insect Coccus cacti, contains the glucoside carminic acid, Cj-H^gOj^ and carmine, and is used as a colouring agent {e.g. in the compound tincture of cardamoms). The official preparation is 2'inctvra Cocci {done, 5 to 15 m.). (2) A rounded or ellipsoid micro-organism (e.y. micrococcus, streptococcus, etc.). Coccyalg:ia or Coccygralgria.— Pain in the coccygeal region. See Cocxygo- DYNIA. Coccygfectomy. — Excision of the coccyx. See C'(icrY(;oi)YNlA. Coccygfodynia. See also Coccygec- tomy; Labour, Injuries {Pelvic Articulations). —Definition.—A painful condition of the coc- cygeal region produced by the acts of sitting, walking, or defrecation. Description.—The structures involved may Ije the coccyx, sacra-coccygeal joints and ligaments, perineal muscles attached to the bone, terminal branches of the sacral plexus of nerves, and probably the coccygeal gland. It has to be distinguished from a somewhat similar condition frequently associated with certain aftections of the vulva, uterus, ovaries, pelvic peritoneum, and separation of the bones at the symphysis pubes. It is found almost exclusively in the female sex, although cases are recorded of its occurrence in males and children. Etiolofiy. — 1. Traumatism during labour, causing :— (a) Injury tc the fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves. {h) Dislocation of the sacro-coccygeal joint, or fracture of the coccyx. The latter may be produced l)y other causes, e.g. falls or blows. 2. Piheumatisni affecting tlie ligaments or tlie periosteum of the coccyx.