276 DEATH, SIGNS OF If respiratory movements are still going on, the mirror will be dimmed or the fluff of cotton by its movement will betray the passage of the air. To test the cessation of the circulation it has often been suggested that a small vein should be opened. A neater test is that proposed by Magnan, who recommended that a ligature should be tied firmly round a limb. If circula- tion was going on even slowly the limb beyond the ligature would gradually become congested. 2. The Cooling of the Body.—Under ordinary circumstances a dead body is quite cold in from twelve to twenty hours after death. The rate of cooling is, however, modified by many circum- stances. Thus a fat body will cool less quickly than a thin one. A body naked or exposed to cold air will cool more quickly than a bodj- wrapped in woollen coverings or surrounded by a warm atmosphere. In water a body will cool more rapidly than in air of the same tempera- ture. It is said that when death occurs from hyperpyrexia the temperature may even continue to rise for a short time after death. 3. Cadaveric Rigiditi/.—Rigor Mortis.—After death the muscular system typically passes through three stages. First, there is a stage of flaccidity in which the muscles retain their power of contracting on electric stimulation. Muscles which were contracted in the act of dying may pass into a condition of cadaveric spasm instead of relaxing at " the moment of death." The second stage is that of rigor mortis. The third is that of relaxation and incipient putrefaction. Kigor mortis usually sets in six or eight hours after death, and may last for three to six or seven days. Its usual duration is about twenty-four hours. It commences in the muscles of the neck and lower jaw, and passes on into the muscles of the upper limbs, chest, and lower limbs. It passes off in the same order. Rigor mortis is a phenomenon analogous to the coagulation of the blood. It is due to the coagulation from the muscle plasma of a proteid termed myosin, and the process is accompanied by the liberation of carbonic acid, and a change from alkaline to acid in the reaction of the muscle substance. The period of onset and the duration of rigor mortis depend chiefly on the degree of exhaustion of the muscular tissue. When death has occurred from convulsions or by accident, for example, during prolonged and excessive muscular exertion, rigor comes on very rapidly and passes off correspondingly quickly. 4. Hy2Mstasis.—The gravitation of the blood to the most dependent parts of the body results in the post-mortem staining which begins to appear in from eight to twelve hours after death. If the body has been lying on a hard table the parts in actual contact with the table, such as the buttocks and scapular regions, may be quite white, while the parts immediately surrounding are deeply stained. Hypostasis must not be confounded with ccchymosis, in which condition the blood is actually extravasated into the sub- cutaneous tissue. The distinction in a doubtful case is easily made by making a small incision into the discoloured part. 5. The lustre of the eye is very quickly lost after death, and the tension of the globe falls so i that the cornea feels flaccid. These changes j occasionally take place even before death; for i example, when death is due to malignant cholera, I 6. The Skin.—After death the skin loses its. j normal elasticity. It undergoes striking altera- \ tions in colour. The first change is a general j pallor of the whole surface. A little colour may, ! however, be left in dilated venules. Ecchymoses, j of course, retain their colour. Later, the dis- \ coloration due to hypostasis appears, and this is followed by the colour changes associated with putrefaction. 7. Putrefaction.—ks. rigor mortis passes off the putrefactive changes which end in the com- plete dissolution of the body make their appear- ance. The first signs of putrefaction are that the limbs become supple, a faint odour becomea noticeable, and a greenish discoloration appears on the abdomen, and later on the chest, face, arms, and legs. The progress of putrefaction may be limited to a greater or less degree under suitable circumstances by the occurrence of mummification or the formation of adipocere. It is said that putrefaction may be greatly delayed in the bodies of persons who have been arsenic- eaters. Death Struggle.—The agony or the pre-mortem convulsive throes or pangs. See- Agony ; Post-Mortem Methods {Agonal Intus- susception). Debility.—Weakness in general, or weak- ness of mind {debilitas animi) or memory {dehilitas memorioi). /SVe Neurasthenia; Head- ache {Causes); etc. Deca.pita.tion. See Labour, Opera- tions {Embryotomy, Trunlc Presentations). Decapsulation, Renal.—The split- ting or separation of the capsule of the kidney as recommended and carried out by Edebohla (1899) in cases of Bright's disease and (after- wards) in puerperal eclampsia; its value has. not yet been established. It is sometimes as- sociated with incision of the renal substance (nephrotomy). Dechery Cautery. See Cautery (Thermo-Cautery). Dechlorination or Dechlorida- tion. See also Urine, Pathological Changes; Dropsy.—Dechlorination, or restriction of the amount of salt consumed to the minimum con- tained in the food elements, has recently been introduced into therapeutics in the treatment.