^28 DIABETES MELLITUS patients) in Manchester there were evidences of phthisis in 29. Next to coma, tuberculous phtlaisis is the most common termination of diabetes. In half the cases of diabetes in which the writer has seen or made an autopsj', tuberculous disease of the lungs (extensive or slight) has been present. The phthisis of diabetic patients is usually tuber- culous, and tubercle bacilli are present in the sputum. Phthisis in diabetic subjects generally runs a comparatively latent course, and the patho- logical changes are more advanced than is suspected from the clinical signs. Cough and expectoration are often slight. The tempera- ture is not much above normal, and haemoptysis is very rare. But to these general statements there are exceptions. When the lung changes become advanced the diabetic symptoms gradu- ally subside, and finally the sugar may disappear irom the urine. Pathologically diabetic phthisis is usually due to a chronic caseous tuberculous broncho- pneumonia, it genei'ally runs a rapid course, caseation soon occurs, and the diseased parts break down and cavities are formed. There is no tendency to cicatrisation. Occasionally a chronic pneumonic (non-tuber- -culous) phthisis is met with in diabetic subjects. Gangrene of the lungs occasionally occurs as ■a complication ; in such cases the characteristic •offensive smell of the sputum may be absent. Broncho-pneumonia and acute croupous piieu- monia are rare complications. The Heart.—Usually there are no signs of cardiac disease, especially in the sevei'e forms of diabetes. (Heart normal on clinical examina- tion in 93 out of 100 cases examined by the writer.) In the later stages of the disease the heart's action and the heart sounds are often feeble. Mayer of Carlsbad has found cardiac enlarge- ment in 21 "6 per cent of the cases (but probably a considerable proportion of his patients would be elderly persons suffering from a mild form of the disease). Occasionally diabetes terminates with symp- toms of cardiac failure or collapse {see " Diabetic Coma," p. 329). The pulse is usually normal, but in elderly persons often signs of arterio-sclerosis and high tension are met with; and sometimes the pulse is large, hard, and of increased tension in diabetics under middle life, even when there are no evi- dences of kidney disease. Pathologically in severe forms of the disease the heart usually presents no macroscopical change except general atrophy ; or the heart muscle is often soft and flabby. Israel, how- ever, found cardiac hypertrophy (generally asso- ciated with hypertrophy of the kidneys) in 10 per cent of the cases of diabetes examined patho- logically at the Berlin Pathological Institute. Sometimes fatty or glycogenic degeneration of the cardiac muscle is found on microscopical examination. The Kidneys.—Albimien, usually in small quantities or mere traces, is often present in the urine of diabetic patients (44 per cent of cases). It occurs especially at the late stages of the disease, and is not associated with nephritis. It has been attributed to excess of nitrogenous food, to catarrh of the bladder, and occasionally it is due to the mixture of a little pus with the uriue owing to the balanitis in the male, or eczema of the vulva in the female. In a few cases the albumen is large in amount, and is associated with signs of nephritis, parenchyma- tous or interstitial (4 out of the 44 cases of albuminuria just mentioned). On pathological examination hypertrophy of the kidneys is not luicommonly found. Occa- sionally there are signs of interstitial, paren- chymatous, or diffuse (parenchymatous with interstitial) nephritis, and in a few cases tubercle of the kidneys. Microscopically changes in the renal epithelium are often present, and the following have been described—hyaline degeneration (Armanni); necrosis of epithelium (Ebstein); fatty degeneration (Fichtner); glyco- genic degeneratioii (Ehrlich and Frerichs). The latter change is met with chiefly in the cells of Henle's loop. The Skin.—In severe cases the skin is usually dry and rough, but in the milder cases it is generally normal. Pruritus is sometimes trouble- some, it is usually local, rarely general. Pruritus is most common about tlie genital organs, especi- ally in females, and sometimes it is the symp- toms for which advice is first sought. Pruritus of the vulva is produced by the irritation of the saccharine urine, it is often followed by erythema and eczema. In the male pruritus of the glans penis is due to the same cause, and is often followed by erythema and balanitis, and the prepuce may become oedematous. Boils and carbuncles sometimes occur; the latter are most frequently met with on the neck. In patients over 45 gangrene sometimes occurs. It may be moist or dry, and is frequently asso- ciated with arterio-sclerosis. It occurs most frequently in the foot, and is often excited by some slight wound or injury to the skin. Gan- grene may follow cellulitis in other parts. Perforating ulcers on the feet resembling those seen in locomotor ataxia are occasionally met with in diabetics over middle age. Anasarca of the feet and sometimes of the hands, without albuminuria or signs of cardiac failure, is an occasional complication of diabetes. Xanthoma diabeticorum is one of the rarest skin affections in diabetes. Other skin affections are occasionally met with, and recently a form of diabetes with bronzing of the skin has been described (cliabete bronze). Affections of the Eye.—Defects of vision