DYSENTERY 448 at a distance from dwellings or cremated. Soil in the neighbourhood of dwellings and drinking- water should be guarded from fa;cal pollution. In countries where the disease is endemic the precaution of boiling the water before using it, unless it is above all suspicion, should never be neglected. The influence of muscular ex- haustion, of exposure to cold after being heated, of insufficient nourishment, of excesses in food and alcohol, in predisposing to dysentery must be borne in mind. Other measures of pre- vention wall be deduced from a careful study of the etiology of the disease. Treatment.—Of primary importance in the treatment of all forms of dysentery are rest and diet. The patient is to be strictly confined to bed throughout an acute attack, whether mild or severe. Even motion in bed is to be avoided as far as possible. The bed-pan should be used to obviate the necessity of the patient getting up to stool. Fresh milk given lukewarm is, perhaps, the best diet in most cases. When fresh milk cannot be obtained, condensed milk may be substituted. When ordinary milk is not well digested, peptonised milk, or milk diluted with lime water, may be found to answer. In a considerable number of cases milk in any form disagrees. Manson remarks that when the tongue is coated milk is often not well borne. This is true, but it also occasionally disagrees with patients when the tongue is clean. In these cases good beef tea, chicken soup, or barley water may be substituted. Whatever may be the food selected, it should be given in small quantities in the intervals between the doses of ipecacuanha, if this remedy is used. As a rule, alcohol is not only unnecessary but hurtful, but in some outbreaks the free use of wine and water has done good. The casual indication, which is to destroy the pathogenic agents of the disease, can only be imperfectly carried out. Salol has been recom- mended by Rasch, Fisch, and Kartulis. It may be given in 15 to 20 grain doses in cachets, and may be used along with castor oil or other purgatives. Naphthalin has been given by mouth and enema with some success by Rossbach and NovikofF. It may be given in 15-grain doses four times daily by the mouth, or in enema dissolved in olive oil or suspended in some mucilaginous menstruum. Benzo-naphthol appears to be deserving of further trial. It has little toxic power. It passes through the stomach unchanged, break- ing up in the intestine into beta-naphthol and benzoic acid. It is specially indicated when the kidney is diseased. Thirty to fifty grains or more may be given daily in divided doses. In the present state of our knowledge these remedies are rather to be looked upon as auxiliaries to other methods of cure, than as means of cure to be trusted to alone. The indications from the disease are to prevent the healing process being disturbed by the passage of excrementitious matter over the inflamed surface, and to secure rest for the bowel by the use of sedatives, such as Dover's powder. Of the importance of a non-irritating diet enough has been said. Experience proves that there is danger in attempting to arrest the peristaltic movements of the bowels by opiates. Many cases may recover under such treatment, because many cases will recover without any treatment other than rest and dieting, or in spite of inappropriate treatment. I have seen this method of securing mechanical and physio- logical rest for the bowel tried on a large scale by an eminent physician, and I am bound to say that the results were disappointing. The symptomatic indications are to relieve pain and local irritation. Small opiate enemata are occasionally useful when tenesmus and dysuria ai-e distressing. Poultices, fomenta- tions, and turpentine stupes often afford con- siderable relief. Poultices if they are to be of service should cover the whole abdomen, and be renewed before they begin to feel cold to the patient. A warm bath given at the commence- ment of the disease is useful if care be taken to prevent a chill. Quite recently serum methods of cure have been tried, but their value has not yet been demonstrated. The most successful treatment of dysentery is purely empirical, and consists in the use of ipecacuanha, salines, or mercurials. Ipecacuanha and salines are alternative remedies adapted to the same forms of the disease. In severe cases, if there is no contra-indication to its use, ipecacuanha should, I think, be employed. Salines are to be preferred in the case of young children, delicate persons, pregnant women, and when ipecacuanha cannot be tolerated. Mercury is to be resorted to in those cases only in which the other remedies have failed, and in epidemics in which they have been found inefficacious. As it is impossible to distinguish from the symptoms the class of cases likely to be benefited by one or other of these remedies, the ipeca- cuanha or saline treatment should always be employed in the first instance, and receive a fair trial. Use of IpecacuanJm.—The method of using ipecacuanha is as follows:—The patient should abstain from food and drink for three hours. A large sinapism is to be placed over the abdomen, and 30 to 60 grains of ipecacuanha powder are to be administered in bolus or cachet. More or less nausea will result, and'after a time vomiting generally ensues. If the drug is re- tained for three-quarters of an hour or longer, its curative action will not be impaired even if a considerable portion of the powder is then rejected. These doses are to be repeated twice or three times daily, according to the urgency