310 DERMATITIS TRAUMATICA ET VENENATA Lastly, many substances used in surgical dressing are apt to cause acute dermatitis, such as iodoform, carbolic acid, and collodion, which last sometimes causes blisters whereA^er applied. (d) Physical Agencies. — X-ravs {see "X- Rays "). The eniptions belonging to this class fall into two subdivisions, namely, the urticarial or oedematous and the true inflammatory. As types of each respectively the lesion produced by the common stinging-nettle and that pro- duced by one of the poisonous plants, Rhus toxicodendron, will be described. A. The farmer needs only the shortest notice, as the rash is almost always quite evanescent in character. It must not be forgotten, however, that in the case of some of the tropical plants the effects are much more lasting and seA'ere, and that with some of the jellyfishes eruptions have occurred which, although beginning as urticaria, ended Avith gangrene. The symptoms of the urticarial class are then, first, shortly after the contact with the poisonous body, a circumscribed hyperaemia of the irritated spot associated with sharp burning. In a few moments there occurs an exudation of serum into the hypersemic area, with the result that a pinkish swelling is pi'oduced which changes to a yellowish white as the tension in the oedematous papule is gradually raised, and the capillaries are closed by the surrounding pressure. After remaining in this state for some time, usually about half an hour, the exuded serum becomes gradually reabsorbed, and nothing remains biit a slight passive hyperajmia to mark the spot where the reaction occurred. If the lesion is situated on some spot whei'e the subcutaneous tissue is very loose, such as the eyelid or scrotum, the swelling is apt to be very much greater and may completely close the eye. Treatment consists in the application of evapor- ating lotions if the pain is very severe. B. The acute eczematoid dermatitis commences as a local hyperaemia or erythema of varying extent. Compared with the erythematous stage of so-called idiopathic eczema this traumatic erythema will be generally found to be more brilliant in colouring and more acute in onset, thus resembling erysipelas. In some cases the disease may go no farther than this, the liyper- Rimia subsiding after a few hours, and leaving nothing behind but a slight yellowish dis- coloration due to diapedesis of red blood- corpuscles, to be followed by an insignificant desquamation of the damaged epithelium. More frequently, however, the hypersemia is rapidly followed by serous exudation into the corium and, later, into the epidermis itself. This is shown clinically by a marked thickening and swelling of the skin, accompanied by oblitera- tion of the normal folds, and by a slightly translucent appearance in those situations where the skin is thin and the subcutaneous tissue loose, such as the eyelids, penis, and scrotum. After the exudation of serum has gone on for a certain time the fluid begins to pass upwards into the epidermis, distending the intercellular canals, rupturing the connecting prickles, and pushing aside the cells of the mucous layer so as to form small A^esicular cavities. Most of the vesicles thus formed burst, either from pressure of the contained fluid or from external violence. The condition then found is one of intensely inflamed skin covered only by the moist layei's of the epidermis and freely pouring out a straw-coloured fluid which dries into gummy crusts on the surface. If the skin be no further exposed to the action of the iri'itant the exudation of fluid gradually diminishes until it ceases altogether, a new horny layer is formed, and the surface gradually returns to the normal. Frequently the exudation into the mucous laj'er is so rapid as to I'aise the horny layer in large areas, and then bullte are the restdt, or in other cases where the irritant causes a marked emigration of leucocytes, tlie vesicles may become quite cloudy and purulent, notably so in the cases of antimonial salts and croton oil. In some cases, again, the inflam- mation may become so intense as to cavise death of the tissues of the papillary layer, in whicii case ulceration will take place, and the disease can only terminate by the formation of a scar. This, it should be noted, however, is by no means a frequent occurrence in the acute eczematoid forms of dermatitis, but is much more often found in the more chronic cases of irritation by some active chemical agent. As regards the duration of the acute forms of dermatitis no exact time limit can be given. The effects of the poison may be limited to a slight and CA^anescent redness which passes off within a few hours, or there may be consider- able exudation with vesicle formation, in which case recoA'cry will be unlikely to be complete in less than a fortnight, or if the disease reaches a high degree of severity, even without ulcera- tion, it will generally last several weeks. In addition to this, one must remember that some cases of apparently simple acute traumatic dermatitis do not recover of themseh^es, but after some impi-OA'ement has taken place tend to pass into a chronic state Avhich is entirely in- distinguishable from chronic, idiopathic eczema. The stihjective symptoms of acute traumatic dermatitis are in no way characteristic, but are simply those of acute inflammation of the skin, tlie affection usually beginning with tingling and itching, which is folloAved by a more or less scA^ere burning and itching as the inflammation progresses to its height. The diagnosis of acute dermatitis from acute eczema is apt to be extremely difficult or impossible. The site and history are inqjortant in every case. The sites most usually affected