CHLOROSIS 111 their individual poverty in htcmoglobiu. In slight cases their shape is often otherwise normal, but in severe cases poikilocytosis may be quite as marked as in pernicious anemia, though the deformed corpuscles still show the central pallor. Nucleated red corpuscles are extremely rare, and are only found in the severest cases. Leuco- cytosis may occur in chlorosis from any of the causes which ordinarily j^roduce it, but in un- complicated cases the leucocytes tend to be scanty in number rather than increased, and to be fewer in tlie worst cases than in the milder ones. The percentage of lymphocytes is typically increased. The specific gravity of the blood and the dry residue are diminished parallel to the hsemo- globin, but the plasma is unaltered. If a case be watched througli its development and re- covery it will be found that at first the red corpuscles are normal in number, but they be- come smidl in size and the luemoglobin is dimin- ished. Then tiie number of the corpuscles begins to fall and poikilocytosis appears. As the case improves under treatment the corpuscles increase rapidly in number, but remain for a long time small and pale, and the normal number has been regained long before the corpuscles attain their normal size, and before the haemoglobin reaches the normal. The essence of the disease is insufiicient blood formation ; one might indeed define it as a lassi- tude of the bone marrow. The demand of tlie body for fresh corpuscles is complied with, but the corpuscles are small and of light weight, and the oxidation processes in the body are thus in- terfered with. Symptoms.—The first complaint is usually breathlessness on exertion, then follow fatigue and paljaitation. Pallor, which may be greenish in tint, does not usually appear till the blood changes are well advanced, and shows itself first in the lips and conjunctivae, later in the skin. The patients often, indeed, have a fresh pink and white complexion, for the vascidar nerves are easily excited and flushing results. There is disturbance of menstruation, usually greater the younger the patient and the more seldom she has menstruated before. Complete or partial amenorrhoca is the nde, menorrhagia is much less common. This suppression of menstruation is of course a curative endeavour. Leucorrhoea is common. The muscular power diminishes, though here there are great individual differ- ences due rather to temperament and will-power than to bodily confoi-mation. Headache is com- mon, and in bad cases one meets also tinnitus, temporary blindness, and deafness, giddiness, and fainting. The last is specially apt to occur after the patient has been standing for a long time. The amount of alimentary disturbance varies greatly. The stomach is sometimes dilated, and gastric ulcer is a not infrequent complication. Some patients retain a normal appetite, and these tend to become fat; others lose their appetite, suffer from dyspeptic symptoms, and become thin. But even those patients who retain their appetite are very apt to be caprici- ous in their choice of food; meat they generally dislike, while they have a special fondness for acids, such as lemons and vinegar, or for such things as chalk, starch, dry oatmeal, dry tea- leaves, or dry sago. Constipation is common. The tongue is sometimes furred and flabby, but more usually pale and clean. The pulse is generally rapid; the heart may be enlarged, usually more to the right side than the left. Coldness of the hands and feet or of the whole body, from feebleness of the peripheral circula- tion, is often complained of, and patients often suffer from " dead fingers " for the same reason. Thrombosis of the veins, especially of the legs, occasionally occurs, and without this there may in severe cases be some osdema of the ankles. It is doubtful whether these thromboses are due to the increase in blood plates or not. In the majority of cases they seem to be organismal in origin. The splenic dulness is often enlarged, but the organ is rarely palpable. The urine is copious, pale, and of low specific gravity. The patients are often irritable, capricious, or obstinate. The headache may be constant, or may occur in attacks like migraine. Neuralgias of all kinds are veiy common, especially infra- mammary neuralgia. Optic neuritis sometimes occurs. The temperature seldom rises luiless for some complication. Cardiac and Vascular MiLvmurs.—The cardiac murmurs of uncomplicated chlorosis are always systolic in time, and are heard most frequently in (1) the pulmonary area, with the point of maximum intensity in the second left intersjxxce, close to the sternum, i.e. just over the pulmonary artery. The causation of this murmur has been much discussed. It has been ascribed to mitral regurgitation, to pressure on the pulmonary artery by the dilated left auricle, to wateriness of the blood, and to other causes. The view now most commonly held is that it is due to a want of tone in tlie walls of the artery, similar to that found in the heart walls, and caused by malnutrition, and that the murmur is produced by the sudden propulsion of the blood into the artery, wdiich is relatively dilated in comparison to its orifice. The same cause would account for the murmur which is sometimes heard in (2) the aortic area, though with much less fre- quency. Systolic murmurs in (3) the tricuspid area and (4) the mitral area are usually heard along with the basal murmurs, but sometimes alone, and in cases where they are not due simply to the conduction of very loud basal nuu'murs, are more serious, for they are found only in severe cases of chlorosis, and indicate that the heart wall is so enfeebled as to allow of sufficient dilatation to cause respectively tricuspid or mitral regurgitation. It is some-