DIURETICS 415 these figures that a powerful diuretic influence might be attached to a drug employed at a time when the renal secretion was low. The cause of these variations is unknown, but their existence must be recognised when seeking to define the diuretic action of any remedy in use. There are many things which have to be carefully considered in connection with the subject of diuresis, and there are many points of difficulty in their consideration—points de- pending on our want of accurate knowledge of the agencies concerned in the renal secretion in health as well as disease. The force driving the hlood through the kid- neys has first to be considered. This has in great measTU'e to be determined by the state of tlie general blood-j^ressure as estimated by the pulse. We must, however, bear in mind that tiicre may be increased vaso-motor tone in the kidney, of local origin, dependent upon altera- tions in the splanchnic area, and it is interesting in this connection to note the close relationship which has been shown by Hill to exist between tlie splanchnic area and the regulation of the cerebral circulation. As an instance of diuresis resulting from general increased arterial tension we have the influence of cold. Then the state of the hlood itself has to be considered. It may l)e that the variations in the amount of ui'ine excreted from day to day in some cases of gout are largely dependent on the relative amount of toxic material present. Apart from the presence of toxic substances, excess of uric acid in the blood and the amount of salts require consideration, and will be referred to later. The condition of the kidneys themselves is a further point meriting very careful con- sideration. On the one hand there may be some defect in the state of the secreting struc- tures in the glomeruli and the tubules, or some obstruction in the excretory channels; or, on the other hand, the permeability of the kidneys may be impaired, or there may be interference with the venous circulation. While all these factors have to be borne in mind, it is exceed- ingly diflicult and frequently impossible to determine which of them has been at fault, or, in other words, w'hich of them has been influ- enced, and how, by the diuretic used in any given case. In disease we may find a greater permeability associated with diminished velocity, and obstruction to the discharge from the kidney. Diuresis may occur through an elevation of the arterial tension, through an excess of water, or by an excess of salts. The ingestion of water probably acts in a complex maimer : the total Inilk of the blood is augmented, tissue metabolism is modified, with resulting increased excretion of waste products, and the renal capillary pressure is raised. An excess of salts acts similarly, but in different directions: here fluid is withdrawn from the cells, thus tending to increased total bulk of that fluid ; further, the osmotic pressure is increased, and the general metabolism as well as renal metabolism influenced. It has been thought that one reason why potassium salts are more powerful diuretics than sodium salts depends on the fact that the former are naturally less abundant in the blood, and are therefore more stinndating and active on account of their greater difl'usive power. The action of alkaline and acid salts differs somewhat from those of the neutral; the former increase production of urea, which being a stimulant to renal excretion promotes diuresis. Acid salts tend to diminish urea production, but induce a flow of alkaline fluid from the tissues, and thus increase the amount of salts and water in the blood with resulting diuresis. The compounds of the xanthin group, notably caff"eine, act by modifying renal metabolism, and by also stimulating the circidation. Indications for the %tse of Diuretics.—Diuretics are so frequently indicated in various cardiac, respiratory, and renal diseases, and also in many conditions of general disordered metabolism, that only a few^ general statements need be quoted. The first essential for the clinician in all cases is to endeavour to gauge the state of the kidney itself and the state of the cardio-vascular system. This has to be done by a detailed general ex- amination of the subjective and objective symji- toms present in each case. In all cases, moreover, it is advisable that the functions of the auxiliary excretory organs be judiciously pi'omoted. The use of a vegetable purgative pill, or calomel in pill form, with an occasional morning saline, and the use of hydro- therapeutic remedies to pi-omote the skin func- tion, are very important aids to treatment. If, after consideration, the conclusion is arrived at, that the defective secretion results from low vascular tension, digitalis, or a similarly acting body, is the remcd}^ par excellence. A prescription like the following can l)e com- mended :— E Potass, citrat. . . gr. xxx. Spir. chloroformi . . Jll^xx. Tinct. digitalis . . Ill^x. Infus. buchu . . 5ss. Dose for an adult, t. d. s., to be followed by a copious drink of water. The foregoing illustrates how we may advan- tageously combine diuretics of dift"erent classes, the digitalis acting mainly through the general blood-pressure, the potash and buchu acting on the kidney structure, directly aided, in the case of potash, by alterations in general tissue meta- bolism. Citrate of potash or lithia alone, or in combination with buchu or scoparium as a vehicle, may be mentioned as suitable drugs in cases where a vascular diuretic is not indicated.