VISION 192 COLOUR tion of the optic tracts to the central nervoiis system, that the obscure changes which take phice in the intervening retinal layers are of great importance to vision, with its subsidiary perceptions of light, coloui", and form. It was formerly supposed that the receptive rods and cones mechanically vibrated in unison with the subtle ethereal undulations ; but such rapidity of vibration of organic formed elements is inconceivable, and this direct transference of energy without change of form or quality would appear to be physically impossible. Apart from this consideration, it is (as the Committee of the Royal Society on Colour Vision remarks) "diffi- cult to conceive that matter which is so com- paratively gross as the rods and cones which are situated on the retina, can be affected by the merely mechanical action of the vibrations of light." It is obvious, therefore, that some subtle transformation of energy between ethe- real vibrations and visual impulses must take place, but the nature of this change is largely a matter of conjecture. In the course of this transformation, tlie occurrence of certain physi- cal phenomena has been definitely established. Holmgren first recognised the existence of elec- trical processes; then Boll observed the bleach- ing of the retinal colour under the influence of light, which Kuehne subsequently demonstrated was the outcome of a chemical change. Again, mechanical alterations as to the distribution of the pigment in the retinal epithelium, and in the shape of the visual rods and cones, have also been observed. These varied forms of transformation of energy are evidently inti- mately associated with each other in the com- plex visual act, which involves the transforma- tion of ethereal vibration into the special nervous visual impulse. Nervous impulses in general are now con- sidered to be the outcome of molecular change, generated (through the medium of some obscure chemical process) as the result of some form of physical stimulus, and pi'opagated along a nerve- fibre. In the special nervous impulse under consideration, the physical stimulus is peculiarly subtle, and the direct transference of ethereal into molecular vibrations is not feasible on physical grounds. Whatever the mode of trans- formation of light energy into visual impulse may be, it is, as yet, beyond the range of tangible demonstration. Here, however, the "chemical" theory affords a particularly appli- cable working hypothesis, adherence to which is certainly solicited by the knowledge of the ready decomposition of many chemical sub- stances in the presence of light. This photo- chemical hypothesis assumes the existence of complex unstable and therefore easily decom- posable visual matters in or around the terminal visual cells, which (though not necessarily pig- mented) can absorb light, but which do not generate visual impulses until decomposed under its influence. When such decomposition occurs, chemical products are formed which are believed to excite molecular changes in the retinal elements, which changes ax-e transmitted hence up the nerve as the visual impulses of light, colour, and form. In order that the incident light may expend its energy in provoking the necessary intermediary chemical change, it is essential that the photogenic waves be first arrested and absorbed. The minute structure of the retina demonstrates the existence of a specially differentiated brown pigment—fuscin —in the retinal epithelium, which may fulfil this function. The chief pigment of the visual cells—the visual purple or rhodopsin — was, when first discovered in 1876, regarded as the special visual matter, the subject of photo- chemical decomposition. Under the influence of solar light this is first changed to visual yellow (xanthopsin), and subsequently to visual white (leukopsin); while mono-chromatic spec- tral colours also produce the photo-chemical effect less rapidly in proportion to their absorp- tion by the purple. It was naturally believed that the physical basis of visual impulse and colour-sensation had been isolated; and the fact that the visual efficiency of the rays correspond- ing to colour is relative to their photo-chemical eff'ect upon the purple, incidentally lent support to this belief. The idea, however, had to be abandoned, for visual purple is only found in the rods, is quite absent in the cones of the human fovea centralis (where vision is most acute), and may be naturally or artificially absent in animals which see well. The visual matters are as yet, therefore, of purely hypo- thetical existence. Analogy suggests that some such sensitive matters (which are probably colourless and have therefore, so far, escaped detection) do exist as the physical basis of visual impulse. These, by varying photo - chemical decomposition under the influence of light of certain wave - lengths, generate corresponding impulses in the retina, which in accordance with their particular characteristics are appre- ciated by the perceptive visual centres as the relative colour-sensations. The assumption that the retina is the portion of the visual apparatus mainly concerned in the differentiation of normal colour-perception is rendered very probable, and apparently justified by considerations which may be thus enumer- ated :— (a) Law of Specific Energy of Nerves.—Physio- logical research supports the view that all nerve- impulses (actually in process of transmission) are of identical character, whatever the nature (motor, sensory, or special sensory) of the nerve may be ; that the effect produced by the impulse in any given nerve depends, not upon any varia- tion in its structure, but upon its differentiation to a special function, implying a particular peripheral termination on the one hand, and