CORNEA 228 Inflammation of the cornea may be limited to the epithelial layer, to the substance of the cornea, or to the endothelium on its posterior surface; it may be a local infective process leading to ulceration or abscess, or it may be part of a disease affecting mainly the deeper regions of the eye; it is often the manifesta- tion of a constitutional affection as in inherited syphilis. Inflammation of the cornea always gives rise to a loss of transparency ; if only the anterior epithelium be involved, the surface loses its polish, and the appearance of stippling produced by its cells when highly magnified is exaggerated ; sometimes the change in the cells is so marked that the magnified surface has the appearance of a piece of orange skin or shagreen. An exudation into the corneal tissue proper is shown by a yellow or grey opacity; suppuration is preceded by haziness, and the area of sup- puration is surrounded by a similar area of haziness. The effect of inflammation is to pro- duce a blurring of the parts seen through the cornea; thus the pupil is no longer quite black, and the details of the structure of the iris are obscured. Inflammation begins with an infiltration ; this consists in the appearance of numbers of leuco- cytes in the tissue of the cornea; the affected area is rendered opaque and the surface over dt loses its polish. This exudation sometimes becomes completely absorbed, and the cornea is left quite transparent; at other times where the disturbance of the corneal tissue has been greater, or where the exudation has been present for a long time, complete restoration of transparency does not take place, the exuda- tion is converted into fibrous tissue, which differs from the proper tissue of the cornea in not being transparent. There is a tendency, however, for old exudations to go on slowly clearing for years, as is seen in the remarkable way in which the changes in the corneal sub- stance left by interstitial keratitis disappear. This clearance depends probably on nutrition, as we commonly see the periphery of the cornea clearing more readily and more completely than the central parts which are farthest removed from the sources of nourishment. This also probably explains the reason vmderlying the use of irritating remedies and massage of the cornea in the promotion of clearing of opacities ■of old standing. Ulcerative Inflammation.—If the inflam- mation be of an ulcerative nature the exuda- tion goes on increasing in amount, the corneal tissue is broken down, and either an ulcer or an abscess is produced. Suppuration generally starts in the superficial layers of the cornea; the epithelium becomes cast off from the in- filtrated area and an ulcer is formed; in the earlier stages, while the margins or base of the cornea are infiltrated with leucocytes, the ulcer is proffressive. As recovery takes place the area of infiltration disappears, the ulcer becomes clear and transparent, but the surface is still rough. Gradually the epithelium from the edges grows over the surface of the ulcer, and blood-vessels run in from the margin of the cornea beneath the epithelium; the ulcer is healed, but its level may be lower than that of the rest of the cornea. By the development of fibrous tissue beneath the newly formed epithelium the level is gradually raised, but the transparency of the cornea is impaired by this growth of fibrous tissue, and the seat of a former ulcer may be traced for years by the opaque scar lying in the clear cornea. Most of the pus-producing organisms have been found in ulcerative affections of the cornea. In the early days of bacteriological work on the cornea the staphylococcus and streptococcus were thought to be the most frequent pro- vocative agents, whether the ulceration was primary or the result of injury, but owing to the work of Uhthofi', Axenfeld, Morax, and others, we now know that they are present much less frequently than other organisms. The ulcerations which occur during the course of attacks of conjunctivitis are not due to secondary infection by staphylo- or strepto- cocci, but are caused by inoculation of the cornea with the organisms of the conjunctivitis, and we may therefore find the gonococcus, the Weeks' bacillus, the diplobacillus, and others. The characters of the ulcerative process vary with the nature of the infecting organism, and although we are not yet in the position of being able to make a new classification of corneal ulcers on this basis, yet certain facts are well ascertained. According to the researches of Uhthoff and Axenfeld, in as many as 98 per cent of the cases of acute serpiginous ulcer pneumococci were present. In certain ser- piginous ulcers running a much less acute course, attended by little or no pain, a diplo- bacillus resembling somewhat the diplobacillus of chronic conjunctivitis, but having some dis- tinguishing characters, has been found (Petit). In bilateral infantile ulceration of the cornea (kerato-malacia) the pneumococcus has been found and also the streptococcus. The Asper- gillus fumigatus has been foinid growing on the cornea in some rare instances. The histology of corneal suppuration has been very thoroughly investigated by Leber, who by his observations on the cornea has added largely to our knowledge of the inflammatory process in general. According to his observations the entrance of any pyogenic organism into the tissue of the cornea sets up hypersemia of the parts round the cornea. This is brought about by the irritative action of the toxines developed in the corneal tissue by the growth of the organism. Very soon an invasion of white cells spreads in from the periphery of the cornea, each cell