454 DYSPNCEA also the relatively greater frequency of pressure on the trachea or bronchi from a tumour, glandu- lar enlargement or abscess in the posterior medi- astinum, and also anteriorly from the thymus gland, and in such cases the difficulties of respi- ration permanently present are liable to occa- sional exacerbations from spasms of the glottis. The symptoms in such cases are noisy breath- ing, metallic or cronpy cough; the attacks of dyspnoea being usually nocturnal, and associated with other evidences of pressure. Another factor of importance in the dyspnoea of children is the local muscular weakness of the chest wall present in rickets. Here the extraordinary muscles of respiration are readily called into play, and in marked cases of the inspiratory type, the movement of the muscles of 'the al.E nasi and the indrawing of the lower intercostal spaces with inspiration form along with other general evidence a characteristic picture. In older children the great frequency of ob- struction due to adenoids should not be lost sight of. DySSia,lia,.—Defective or faulty secretion of saliva. DySSpermatism.—Difficult or imper- fect discharge of semen, e g. from excessive erec- tion of the penis {hypertonic dysspermatism), from phimosis {preputial dysspermatism), from urethral obstruction, want of force, epilepsy, etc. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Sterility). Dyssynodus or Dyssynusia.— Difficulty in sexual connection. Dysthanasia. — Slow, lingering, and painful death, as opposed to euthanasia. Dystocia.—Difficult, delayed, dangerous, or complicated labour, as opposed to eutocia ; fcetal dystocia is difficult labour due to some anomaly in the infant, in maternal dystocia the cause is to be found in the mother. Dystopia.—Malposition or displacement. Dystrophy.—A morbid state character- ised by defective nutrition, due sometimes to disturbance of the trophic nerve supply of the parts (neurotic dystrophy). See Muscles, Dis- eases OF THE {Idiopathic Muscidar Atrojjhy or Myopjathy). DySUria.—Difficult, painful, or incomplete micturition. See Children, Clinical Examina- tion OF {Urinary System, Dysuria); GoNOR- rhceal Infection ; Pubrperium, Physiology {Regulation of Bladder); Urination, Disorders of {Dysuria). Ear.—The diseases of the ear will be con- sidered in the following articles. The affec- tions of the auditory nerve and labsrrintli have already been considered in vol. i. pp. 327- 336 ((/.'!;.). 1. Examination of. . . .454 2. Ear, Local Anaesthetics . . .466 3. External Ear 466 4. Tympanic Membrane. . . 480 5. Middle Ear- Acute Inflammation . . 482 Chronic Suppurative Inflammation 489 Chronic Non-Suppurative Inflam- mation, etc. .... 508 See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth ; Brain, Physiology {Circulation) ; Cheek, Fis- sure OF {Varieties); Cough {"■ Ear'-Cough") ; Deafmutism ; Eczema {Ears) ; Galvanic Cau- tery {Diseases of Ear) ; Glosso-Pharyngeal Nerve ; Gout {Ear) ; Headache {Causes, Reflex Irritation, Ear) ; Hearing, Artificial Aids to : Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Laryngeal Phthisis, Pain in Ear); Life Insur- ance {Diseases of Nervous System, Middle Ear); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Nervous, Ear); LuNGS,VascularDisordersof(PM^»io?2rtry Embolism, Middle Ear Disease) ; Malingering (Varieties, Aural); Meningitis, Epidemic Cere- bro-Spinal {Symptoms, Ear) ; Mental Defici- ency {Abnormalities of Physical Formation) ; Mumps or Epidemic Parotitis {Complications, Affections of Ear); Myiasis {Extermil, Aural); Nephritis {Renal Cirrhosis, Hcemorrhage into Tympanic Cavity); Physiognomy and Expres- sion {Ears); Physiology, The Senses {Hear- ing) ; PosT-MoRTEM Methods {Examination of the Brain, Middle Ear); Purpura (W^erlhofs Purpura, Bleeding from Auditory Meatus); Rheumatism, Chronic {Clinical Features); ScARLE'i' Fever {Complications, Organs of Special Sense, Ear); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Boils, External Ear) ; Syphilis {Secondary Syphilis of the Ear, Tertiary Syphilis of the Ear) ; Teeth {Diseases of the Pulp, Pain in Ear); Teratology {Otocephaly). Ear, Examination of. 1. Anatomy and Physiology . . . 455 2. Symptomatology .... 457 {a) Disturbances in Hearing . . 457 {b) Tinnitus Aurium . . . 457 (c) Pain 457 {d) Vertigo 457 {e) Discha7-ge fr-om the Ear . . 457 3. Investigation of the Function of Hearing . . . . . 458 4. Objective Examination of 'I'he Ear . 460 (a) Technique . . . .460 {b) The Tympanic Membrane . .461 Normal Condition of . . 461 Pathological Conditions of . 462 5. Examination of the Nose, Naso- pharynx, ETC. .... 463