21 BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS separate into au upper fluid layer covered with froth, and a lower dirty layer containing yellow- ish plugs varying in size from a millet-seed to a bean, " Dittrich's plugs." These masses on examination are found to be made up of pus- cells, oil-glol)ules, fatty acids, leucin and tyrosin, and detritus. Vai'ious micro-organisms have been isolated from the plugs, leptothrix pul- monalis (Leyden and Jafte), a short slightly curved bacillus which on culture gives an odour like that of the sputum (Lumniczer), and short thick rods resembling bacillus coli (Hitzig). Virchow and Gamgee observed that these masses stain blue with iodine. In the milder forms when the patient's strength and general condition is good, the prognosis is fairly favourable, but in severe cases it is liable to lead to various dangerous complications, such as pneumonia, bronchiectasis, gangrene, etc., with usually a fatal result. Death has occurred in some cases from the formation of metastatic brain abscess, but more usually the patients succumb to a general depression and collapse. (d) Plastic Bronchitis.—The special feature of this peculiar and rare form of bronchitis is the expectoration of l)r;uiching casts of the smaller bronchial tubes. Somewhat similar casts or moulds of the bronchi may lie found by extension downwards of memljranous laryngitis, and are occasionally found in pneumonia, phthisis, erysipelas, and other diseases, or as the result of severe irritation hy the inhalation of steam, anunonia, etc.; and filirinous blood-casts may be expectorated in hannoptysis. From all tliese conditions true plastic bronchitis diflers in pathology and symptoms. Etiology.—The cause of the affection is not known, and it is possible that in different cases the etiology is not identical. Its appearance seems to be due to some idiosyncrasy or peculiar features on the part of the sufferer. It has often been associated with a predisjjosition to tuber- culosis, but it may attack those apparently in rol)ust health. The exciting causes of the attacks are much the same as in ordinary bron- chitis, generally occurring in the early spring months and after exposure to cold. It is nearly twice as common in males as in females, anci, while it may be observed at all ages, is most frequent l)etween twenty and forty. Sijtnptoms.—The majority of cases are of the nature of a chronic bronchitis, with special features, but, especially in children, acute attacks lasting from one to four weeks occur. Usually the onset resembles simple lironchitis, with a dry cough or with slight mucous expectoration, and slight constitutional disturbance; after a variable period, with the formation of the fibrinous casts, severe hacking cough, dyspntra, rapid breathing, and pyrexia supervene, followed by the expec- toration of the arborescent moulds. The sense of suffocation and lividity may be pronounced if the bronchi are extensively im- I plicated, and the patient frequently complains of pain in the side, but with the expectoration of the casts there is generally an immediate temporary relief. Expulsion of the casts is followed by hsemorrhage from the bronchi, vary- ing in amount from a few streaks to several ounces. The casts appear in the sputum rolled into a solid mass, mixed with ordinary muco- purulent matter ; l)ut when placed in water the casts unroll and display their characteristic form. In severe cases the interference witli respira- tion is so considerable that total suftbcation may ensue before the casts have been expelled. In other cases the course of the affectioia is less severe, and the attacks may last for weeks or months, or recur at intervals for manj' years. The illustration on p. 14 is from a specimen of those finely branched fibrous casts in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. They were expectorated by a boy aged eleven. He had always been delicate, and when about six years old had an attack of influenza. From that time he was subject to cough and ex- pectoration, and spat up pieces of membrane at intervals. His mother's family was healthy; but on the father's side there was a strong- tubercular tendency, and two of the six children had died, one of croup, one of consumption. The physical signs are those of severe bron- chitis, together with those resulting from more or less extensive occlusion of the bronchi. The casts never extend to the trachea, and rarely exceed a goose-quill in size. If only a few smaller bronchi are involved, special physical signs may be imperceptible, but usually there is absence of breath-sounds over the implicated areas, firstly from the blocking of the bronchi, and secondly from collapse of the corresponding air-vesicles. If the area involved is extensive, there may be dulness on percussion here ; either hyper-resonance elsewhere, or the respiratoiy movements may be diminished, and retraction of the lower chest-wall may be present during in- spiration. As the casts become loosened, rales or sibilant or whistling bronchi may ajipear, and a flapping sound has been observed. The casts vary in length, from being mere fragments, to as much as four or five inches, or even, as in a case of Riegel's, six inches; but generally they are one or two inches long, and, when washed free from adherent mucus and suspended in water, form a perfect reproduction cast of the part of the bronchial tree. The larger stem is less in circumference than the tube in which it is formed ; it rarely exceeds a goose-quill in size; and following the sub- divisions of the lironchi, extends downwards to their finest ramifications, so that, according to Biermer, the minutest terminations may be bulb- ous from being moulded in the infundibula. Excepting the smaller filaments, the casts are hollow, the hmien being usually filled with