437 DYS- ment of the will, dyscholia means a morbid condition of the bile, dyscoria means an irregu- lar shape of the pupil, dysemesis means difficult vomiting, etc. etc. OyS£lCUSiS.—When an unpleasant sensa- tion is caused by ordinary sounds (e.g. headache) it has been termed dysacusis. Dyssesthesicl.—A morbid or perverted sensation (tingling, formication, tinnitus, etc.), or an impairment of sensibility; parassthesia; the painfulness of a sensation which normally is accompanied by no pain. See Hysteria {Sen- sory Disorders). Dysana^nOSia. — Inability to read correctly from loss of power of understanding written signs ; alexia or dyslexia ; word-blind- ness. Dysbasia Angfio-Sclerotica of Erb.—Intermittent lameness or claudication {(l-v.), or Walton's crural angina; it is found in cases of aneurysm of the iliac artery and in arterio-sclerosis ; and it is due to diminution in the supply of blood to the muscles. DySChezia.—Pain or difficulty during del'ajcation. See Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Evidence of Injuries to the Pelvic Articulations, Sacro-Coccygeal Joint). Dyschromatopsia.—Incomplete col- our-blindness or diminished colour-sense. See Colour Vision {Congenital Colour - Blindness, Varieties). Dyscinesia. — Diminished or impaired power of voluntary movement. Uterine dys- cinesia is the name which has been given to pain produced by walking and other ordinary movements, and referred to the uterus (Graily Hewitt). DySCrasia.—A faulty state of the con- stitution or of the blood (as the result of such a disease as cancer); the word literally means an abnormal or bad mixture (from Gr. Sixr-, and Kpd<Tis, a mixture) ; cachexia; the haemorrhagic dyscrasia is hajmophilia, the uric acid dyscrasia is the uric acid diathesis, dyscrasia saturnina is lead cachexia, eta DysdiachoresiS.—Constipation (from Gr. ?>v(T~, hard, and i^ia\Mpih', to pass through). Dysentery. Definition .... . 437 Bacteriology . 437 Etiology— General Conditions . . 440 Personal Conditions . 442 Pathological Anatomy— Non-Amoehic Forr/i . . 442 Anioehic Form . . 443 Associated Pathology . 443 Symptoms— Non-Amoehic Dysentery . . . 444 Amoehic Dysentery .... 44.5 Chronic Dysentery . . . .445 Special Forms and Complications . . 44G Diagnosis ...... 447 Prognosis 447 Prophylaxis 447 Treatment— In Acute Cases .... 44S In Chronic Cases . . . .450 See also Colon, Diseases of {Sim2yle Colitis, Diagnosis) ; Enemata {Diarrhoea and Dysen- tery) ; F/ECES {in Dysentery); Liver {Acute Hepatitis); Liver {Abscess, Trojnccd); Liver {Portal Thrombosis); Lungs, Abscess op {Amoe- bic Dysentery); Malaria {Dysenteric Form); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Causes) : Typhoid Fever {Sequels); Water {Diseases produced by Ccmtaininated Water). Synonyms : Gr. Avcrevrepla; L. Tormina; E. The Bloody Flux; G. Ruhr; F. Dysenteric. Definition.—Dysentery is a clinical term connoting a complex of symptoms dependent on inflammatory, ulcerative, and gangrenous lesions of the large intestine. It may be roughly defined as a group of closelj^ allied infective diseases, characterised by frequent mucous, bloody, or serous stools, by griping pains {tormina), more or less straining {tenesmus), generally with retention of fteces. Bacteriology.—In certain cases of dysentery bacteria alone are met with in the stools and intestinal lesions ; in others, amoebtE as well as bacteria are present. The precise significance of the amoebae in relation to the dysenteric process has not been fully determined, but as they are associated with a form of the disease presenting distinctive clinical and pathological characters, we are justified in admitting a non- amoebic and an amoebic form of dysentery. The diversities observed in the clinical features and in the lesions of non-amccbic dj'sentery, taken along with the results of bacteriological researches, indicate that this form will ulti- mately be found to comprise two or more distinct varieties. In non-amoebic and amoebic dysentery alike, the common bacteria of sujjpuration, staphylo- cocci and streptococci, ai'e met with in the stools, as, indeed, they frequently are in the stools of healthy persons. The staphylococci, so far as is known, are not in any sense specific, but when the disease is once established they doul)tless bear a part—perhaps by no means an inconsiderable one—in promoting suppunv tion and destruction of tissue. The three varieties of the staphjdococcus—aureus, albus, and citrous—are present in the stools, and are found with equal frequency in the epidemic dysenteiy of temperate climates and in the chronic dysentery of tropical regions. Strepto-