231 CORNEA vascularity in the neighbouring parts induced l)y cserine promotes the nutrition of the cornea, the ingrowtii of blood-vessels, and the healing process in the ulcer. It may be used as an ointment, or as drops in the strength of one or two grains to the ounce. Wliere the ulcer is progressive, with an advancing infiltrated edge, these measures are insufficient; recourse must be had to the actual cautery or to strong caustic applications to the seat of the idcer. The cautery is most con- veniently applied by a flattened loop of platininii wire bent to a convenient angle, and raised to a d\ill-red heat by a galvanic current. The ulcer being stained with fluorescine all the parts which take on the stain shoidd be burnt, especially wliere the infiltration is densest; it is not neces- sai-y to burn the whole siu'face of the ulcer, the ])art that is liealing and covered with endothelium will not stain, and should not be touched. If the galvanic cautery be not available, a small Paquclin's or a metal cautery heated in a spirit-lamp may be used, but these are much less handy. If the temperature of the wire be not greater than a dull-red heat the cautery docs not produce effects beyond the parts actually touched by it; if the thin base of the ulcer be perforated the incandescent wire is at once chilled by the escaping aqueous and no harm results. For most advancing ulcers treatment by strong local applications is enough ; the ulcer should be stained, the infiltrated parts should be scraped with a small sharp spoon, and a camel-hair brush dipped in the flviid should lie painted over the stained surface, and introduced into all the pockets and recesses of the ulcer. Of these caustic applications pure carbolic acid is one of the most efficient and least painful; where it touches the cornea the tissue is at once whitened and afterwards cast off, so that it should not be applied carelessly or in excess. Other agents, such as nitrate of silver, 10 grains to the ounce, perchloride of mercury 1 or 2 per cent, or tincture of iodine, may be used, but the pain from them as a rule lasts longer and is more severe than after carbolic acid. Before using any of these methods of treat- ment the eye should be thoroughly cocainised and a speculum introduced; as immobility of the eye is very essential, a small amount of solid cocaine in fine powder may be applied to the idcer and also to the conjunctiva where it is gripped by the fixation forceps. After cauterisation atropine ointment or atropine ointment with iodoform siiould be used, and a compress. Section of the base of the ulcer, opening the anterior chamber, a method originated by Sacmisch, is a very valuable treatment where a liypopyon is pi-esent, or when there is risk of ])erforation. A Graefe's knife is j^assed into the anterior chamber at one side of the ulcer, across the chamber to the other side, the cutting edge being directed forwards; the knife is made to cut its way out, completely dividing the base of the ulcer, opening tiie anterior chamber, and as a rule causing the escape of the hypopyon. This should be done slowly to avoid the sudden escape of the a(jueous, and with it prolapse of the iris and possible damage to the lens. It is sometimes advisable to keep the wound open for a time in the event of the reappearance of the hypopyon ; this may be done by inserting a small prol)e between the lips of the wound daily. A recently prolapsed iris may be replaced, but it is generally safer to remove it; it should be seized, freed from the edge of the ulcer all romid, drawn slightly forward, and cut off at the level of the cornea. The cut ends will then either retract or may be replaced, but it is seldom possible to avoid adhesions of the iris to the wound. Siihronjunctival injections of ixirions antiseptic flnids have been strongly recommended by some surgeons for the treatment of corneal affections, and especially of the different forms of infective ulcer; perchloride and cyanide of mercury have been used most frequently. More recently, how- ever, it has been found that sterilised saline solution, 0-75 per cent of chloride of sodium, injected beneath the conjunctiva is equally' use- ful and less irritating. Enough is injected to produce a moderate distension of the loose con- junctiva all round the cornea ; there is a certain amount of reaction after the injection for about twenty-four hours. This form of treatment has not found much favour in this country', and is now less spoken of even by those who first used it. In dealing with perforations of the cornea in which the iris is entangled, there is frequently a difficulty in obtaining a firm cicatrix ; the involvement of the iris leaving unsound spongy tissue. In some cases a fistula is formed, in others the cornea over the seat of the perfora- tion remains thin and bulged for an indefinite time; the risk of septic inoculation of such an eye is considerable. Complete rest in bed, avoid- ance of movement and use of the eyes, a com- press over the damaged eye, the other one being also bandaged, are means by which sounder luiion may be secured. Eserine has been recommended to keep down the tension of the eye as much as possible, but there is little or no evidence that eserine reduces the tension except where it has been previously raised. A method of considerable value in securing firm cicatrisation is the transpilantation of con- junctiva to the seat of the nicer. After freshening the surface of the damaged cornea or the edges of the fistula, this may be done in the following way:—A flap of con- junctiva is dissected up, being left attached by a pedicle ; the flap is twisted on itself and tucked into the weakened spot: another method is to I dissect up a bridge of conjunctiva at the upper