52 CAPILLARIES, DISEASES OF Clinical History.—There may be seen a slight stain at birth, and as a rule a naevus declares itself, if at all, within a fortnight. It is veiy variable in its rate of growth. Its most rapid rate is generally early. After the first few months it tends to grow with the child. There is a great tendency to spontaneous disappear- ance. More than half of the subcutaneous and mixed varieties are naturally cured. The cuta- neous variety, the port-wine stain, is, however, prone to persist through life. The subcutaneous and mixed varieties are likely to persist in pro- portion as they are associated with or acquire arterial, venous, or degenerative changes. The natui'al cure is brought about by a fibrous atrophy probably inflammatory in character, and certainly capable of being excited by inflamma- tory causes to which a na;vus is very sensitive. This process may be modified in various ways. In the atrophy portions of the tumour may be blocked off" and form cysts. The altered blood in them is more thin and watery, and the deposit of fibrin on their walls less copious than in hsematocele or extravasation cysts. I am not sure that these cysts are always blocked-off' blood-vessels, because I have found them purely serous, even among others containing altered blood. But probably the most frequent de- generation is fibrous. The nsevus is cured, but involution of the fibrous tissue fails. I have not met with a sarcomatous change in nsevus uncon- nected with the pigmented mole. Diagnosis.—The symptoms need only be con- sidered in so far as they aid diagnosis. The mixed variety of nsevus may be mistaken for meningocele and spina bifida, the subcutaneous or degenerated for fatty, cystic, and sarcomatous tumours. The most important diagnostic difficulty is with meningocele, which I have several times had sent me for naevus, from their similarity in appearance, consistence, and compressibility. The mere fact that the growth occurs in the middle line should put one on guard. In that line only lies the difficulty. The meningocele is seen nowhere else. Cohesion to the bone calls for additional care. A ntevus may cohere, but if on compression a neck-like connection, and still better if the contour of an orifice in the skull can be felt, a very important dis- tinction is made out. If it be not absolutely congenital it is naevus. If an introduced needle be felt free in a cavity, and clear fluid with cerebral characters be removed, no doubt remains. The same considerations apply to spina bifida, which is also sometimes mistaken. The sarcoma as it occurs in infants is apt to be very vascular, and looks like a naevus. The congenital, or nearly congenital origin, the shape, compressibility, consistence, and situation serve to distinguish a naevus from it and other tumours. Treatment.—No naevus in a child should be submitted to treatment unless it be clearly increasing, or likely to do harm from its situation or condition. Many naevi disappear, and Nature's result is as good as any. The reason for treatment is not usually danger, but disfigurement. The danger comes from wound or ulceration. It is therefore slight. If the tumour be stationary, not ulcerated, and not doing harm, it is best to wait. I leave out of account harmless placebos such as collodion or gentle pressure. The methods of treatment are very numerous. They may be arranged as— 1. External escharotics or irritants; 2. Sub- cutaneous escharotics or irritants ; 3. Ligature ; 4. Excision. 1. There are three conditions under which this form of treatment should be adopted— (a) A tiny ntevus, with radiating vessels, is common on the nose or cheek. It generally goes away, but sometimes increases. It may be so easily destroyed by a needle with nitric acid, by a heated point, or the negative electro- lysis needle, that it ought to be cured without delay. (b) Flat naevi of the skin on the covered parts of the body may be well treated by Richardson's sodium ethylate. It leaves little scarring. (c) Our only method of treating the port-wine stain of the face without leaving a worse mark is by the long-continued application of irritants. Squire's knife, multiple puncture, and all other means have with me been very disappointing. Cure by means of an irritative dermatitis is not certain, and requires much patience and perseverance; but it does no harm, and is sometimes successful. I think strong iodine is the most manageable irritant. 2. I have entirely given up the subcutaneous injection of such substances as tannin, per- chloride of iron, and carbolic acid, as well as the subcutaneous use of the heated wire, in favour of electrolysis. All of them act in the same way, viz. by the destruction of texture. But by electrolysis the destroying agents are introduced in infinitesimal division, and there- fore are much more under the svu'geon's control than by any other method. Moreover, the danger of subcutaneous injection without a temporary ligature has been frequently demon- strated by the sudden death of the patient. There are one or two rare cases in which the platinum wire heated by electricity sub- cutaneously might be used, but almost in- variably for subcutaneous use electrolysis is the best agent. The mode of using it and its value will be considered under the article " Electrolysis." Meantime it suffices to say that for mixed and subcutaneous naevi on exposed parts of the body, and for naevi elsewhere, which are very large or otherwise inoperable, electrolysis is safe and certain, although slow.