145 CHOROID, DISEASES OF ally become worse, and is now reduced to bare perception of light. When the disease has progressed so as to destroy vision there is fre- quently considerable pain in the ciliary region and lachryniation, more severe than in true glaucoma. In the third stage the tension of the globe is suddenly reduced, signifying that the sclerotic has given way, and the glaucomatous symptoms are relieved. The growth, however, now rapidly extends and infiltrates all the surrounding structures. Pathology.—Sarcoma of the choroid may be divided into the following varieties :— A. Leuco - sarcoma — {a) Spindle-celled; (i) round-celled; (c) mixed-celled. B. Melano - sarcoma—(«) spindle-celled ; {h) round-celled ; (c) mixed-celled. C. Intervening grades of pigmentation. Of these, spindle-celled melano-sarcoma is the commonest. Leuco-sarcoma is found in about one case in every eight or nine, but even then a few pigment - containing cells are present. When the growth is white the cells are usually of the round variety, and it appears probable that this form starts from the non-pigmented chorio-capillary layer, while the melanotic form has its origin in the deeper pigmented layers. The tumours usTially are firm ; they gener- ally contain some blood-vessels, and sometimes are very vascular; the walls of the blood-vessels are composed of sarcomatous elements. They have an even and smooth convex surface so long as the lamina vitrea remains intact. When they perforate this membrane they grow more rapidly, become hour-glass in shape, and present an irregular granular surface. Sometimes there is also effusion of serum or blood beneath the retina. They may increase so as to fill the whole globe and distend its walls before invad- ing the extra-ocular tissues ; but in many cases the tissues outside the sclerotic are affected by the new growth, whilst the tumour within the globe is quite small; in these cases the cells pass to the outside by means of the sheaths of the blood-vessels, which are seen to be thickened and altered hj the presence of cells similar in character to those of the tumour. The neighboxu-ing lymphatic glands are not affected, but secondary sarcoma is liable to be set up elsewhere by a process of embolism, the cells being conducted from the primary source by the blood-current. The liver is the organ usually first affected. Diagnosis.—It is obvious how important an early diagnosis is, but this is often extremely difficult. In the early stage there is always great doubt, whether the ophthalmoscopic ap- pearance of the retina is due to a simple detachment fi'om subretinal effusion or to a sarcomatous growth in the choroid. When the latter is the case the detached retina may re- tain some colour or be pigmented ; it may occur VOL. II at any part of the fundus, and it does not flap about when the eye is moved. In simple de- tachment the detached portion is bluish white, usually occurs at the lower segment of the fundus, and may flap about freely when the eye is moved. Occasionally a vascular network of the sarcomatous growth can be detected through the retina. In any case of extensive detachment occurring in one eye only, and when there has been no myopia or history of injury, we must suspect sarcoma of the choroid. In the stage of increased tension sarcoma of the choroid may easily be mistaken for acute primary glaucoma. If the fundus can l)e seen there is usually no difficulty ; but if this is im- possible, the diagnosis must ))e made from the history of the case, whether any symptoms of glaucoma had previously existed, and by the condition of the visual field and the projection of light. An impoi'tant point in the history is the relation between the onset of pain and the loss of acuity of vision. In primary glaucoma the two are almost synchronous, whereas in choroidal sarcoma the sight in most cases has been gradually getting worse previous to the glaucomatous symptoms. Course and Prognosis. — If left alone the disease usually takes some years to run through all its stages, the end being always fatal, the patient dying generally from extension into the brain or from metastasis. In all cases, how- ever early the diagnosis is made, the eye is lost, and we can never promise that there will be no recurrence, local or general. Treatment.—Enucleation should be performed as early as possible, together with excision of 4 or 5 mm. of the optic nerve. If the growth has extended outside the globe the orbit should be emptied. Carcinoma of the Choroid is very rare, and is always secondary, usually to carcinoma of the breast. Death usually occurs within twelve months. Choroidal Degeneration.—Guttate choroiditis of Tag is characterised by a number of yellowish- white specks xisually, though not necessarily, in the macular region. They are probably spots of colloidal degeneration of the choroid. Ossification of the choroid frequently follows phthisis bulbi. It may be extensive, a thin plate being present on the inner or vitreous part of the choroid; or there may be merely a few spicules of bone scattered throughout the choroid. Injuries to the Choroid.—Rupture of the choroid is always the result of external violence, such as a blow or a fall. The accident is usually followed by li;emorrhage into the vicinity of the wound, causing opacity of the vitreous. After a few days, as the blood becomes absorbed, we ca7i see a whitish line in the fundus, with a little blood clinging to its edges. It is usually curved, concentric with the edge of the disc. 10