SUPPURATION AND SEQUELAE 504 EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC organ of sense may be disregarded. Under such circumstances its contents should be freely cur- etted, and middle ear, antrum, and mastoid cells thrown into one cavity, and allowed to become obliterated by means of healthy gi'anulation tissue. Where, however, a fair degree of hear- ing is present, efforts should be made to preserve the function of the organ so far as is possible. An important point arises in connection with the treatment of the accompanying large glands. Some of the glands may be enlarged purely as the result of septic absorption, and if the morbid cause be removed this enlargement will gradu- ally subside, especially if aided by suitable treatment. But many of the glands are of a tuberculous nature, and are prone to undergo caseous degeneration, while at the same time they are a source of possible systemic infec- tion. Hence I hold that after the mastoid area and the cavity of the middle ear have been attended to, and as soon as the condition of the patient admits of it, another operation should be undertaken with the object of removing these enlarged and tuberculous structures. The facial paralysis which so often accompanies tuberculous disease of the middle ear is unfor- tunately usually permanent. Something may, however, be done by facial massage and the in- ternal administration of strychnia to assist in maintaining the tonus of the facial muscles. General treatment, such as the exhibition of cod-liver oil, iodide of iron, syrup of iodine, etc., is useful, as also is change of air and liberal diet. The general conclusions from a study of these cases may be summarised as follows :— 1. That primary tuberculous disease in and around the middle ear is of fairly frequent oc- currence, and that it most usually attacks the children of the poor, especially the poor of our larger cities. 2. That a generalised tuberculous infection may arise from a primary focus within or around the middle ear. 3. That the prognosis in such cases is not very favourable, at least 40 to 50 per cent of the cases succumbing even after operative treat- ment has been undertaken. 4. That in many of the cases operative inter- ference is contra-indicated, owing to the extent of the existing disease and the asthenic condition of the patients. 5. That when operative interference is feasible, the main object should be to scrape away all available foci of disease and to provide efficient drainage. 6. That the best and the most reliable means of establishing the tuberculous nature of the disease is by means of properly conducted inoculation experiments. Intracranial Complications following Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media Extension of a pathogenic infection from the cavity of the middle ear or mastoid antrum to the interior of the cranium takes place either as the result of carious destruction of the surround- ing bony parietes, or as the result of infection spreading along the minute emissary veins or lymphatic channels which connect the mucosa of the middle ear with the meninges and interior of the brain, or directly through various fissures or defects in the osseous framework of the part. • The most usual sites of carious destruction of the bony parietes of the middle ear are-— (1) The tegmen tynipani and roof of the mastoid antrum. (2) The posterior wall of the mastoid antrum. (3) The inner wall of the middle ear—pars promontoria. (4) The bony walls of the aqueductus Fallopii. In certain cases extension to the interior of the cranium takes place without any destruction of surrounding bone, the pathogenic infection being conveyed directly from the septic focus within the middle ear by means of venous or lymphatic channels, a septic thrombosis of these vessels taking place, which in turn is followed by abscess formation. The intracranial lesions most usually met with secondary to chronic suppurative middle ear disease are: (1) extra-dural abscess; (2) pachymeningitis ; (3) suppurative pia-arachnitis; (4) temporo-sphenoidal abscess ; (5) cerebellar abscess ; (6) thrombosis of the lateral sinus; (7) suppurative encephalitis. Extra-Dural Abscess.—The most usual sites for extra-dural abscesses are: (1) over the teg- men tympani; (2) over the tegmen antri; and (3) in the neighbourhood of the groove for the sigmoid sinus. Their size varies immensely, being sometimes very minute, at other times being so large as to contain several ounces of pus. The underlying bone is frequently dis- coloured and carious, and may in exceptional cases become perforated, so that pus collects under the pericranium, constitviting what is known as " the shirt-button abscess." The dura mater limiting the abscess cavity is frequently thickened and studded with tufts of exuberant granulation tissue. At times it is perforated, the abscess cavity commimicating either with the arachnoid cavity or directly with an intracranial collection of pus. The symptoms of an extra-dural abscess are pain, at first local, but frequently becoming generalised, rise of temperature, rapid pulse, nausea, and vomiting, and in advanced cases symptoms of cerebral compression. Should the abscess cavity be situated immediately over or in the neighbourhood of the motor area, symp- toms of paresis or paralysis of various muscles or groups of muscles may be noted. Extra-dural abscesses in the neighbourhood of the groove for the sigmoid sinus are frequently associated with thrombosis of the sinus or with cerebellar abscess.