DIGESTION AND METABOLISM 377 The amount Hecreted can only be estimated in cases of biliary fistula, and such estimations are not reliable, because a certain amount of the bile is normally absorbed by the intestine, and acts upon the biliary function of the liver. If it be then withdrawn by means of a fistula, this natural cholagogue is removed, and so less is excreted than what would normally be the case. The quantity also varies with the amount of water taken and the nature of the diet, animal food increasing it to the most marked extent. The maximum of flow occurs some hours after food has been taken ; the larger the meal, the longer the interval before the maximum appears. Exceedingly little is known as to the action of the nervous system on bile secretion. There seem to be certainly no true secretory nerves, but the secretion may be afiected by vaso-motor influences. If the blood of the portal vein be allowed to pass directly into the inferior cava without passing through the liver, the secretion of bile still goes on, and the same holds good after obstruction of the hepatic artery. After splanchnic stimulation there is a diminished flow, with contraction of portal vessels, while after section the opposite occurs. The expulsive action of the gall bladder and larger bile ducts is under the influence of the nervous system, peristaltic waves of contraction, similar to the intestinal ones, occurring along tlieir smooth nuiscular fibres. These may also be stimulated reflexly from the gastric mucous membrane. The removal of bile from the liver through the ducts is caused by the back pressure of the newly formed secretion, and also from the pressure on the liver during inspiration. PATHOLOGic.\r; Alterations.—It may undergo pathological alterations, of which the chief are due to ol)strnction to the bile outflow when the pigments and salts of the bile acids are ab- sorbed, and the fluid left in the dilated channels is often found to contain only traces of the true constituents with an excess of mucin [see " -laundice "). Under certain conditions, the nature of which we do not yet know, <jatl stones may form in the ducts. These vaiy in size, form, and chemi- cal composition. There are two important forms met with in man, cliolesterin and pigment chalk stones, the former being by far the more fre- tpient. They ai'e white or faintly yellow in colour, and are specially characterised by their low specific gravity, which is less than that of watei'. Absolutely pure cliolesterin stones are rare, there being usually a bilirubin chalk nucleus around which the cholesterin has crystallised out. The pigment stones are much more easily broken down by pressure than the others, and are usualh' nnich smaller and heavier. They very often contain traces of copper and a larger or smaller quantity of other l)ile pigments in aildition to bilirubin, e.g. biliverdin. When numbers of gall stones have collected in the ducts, they present a faceted appearance, owing to the pressure to which they have been sub- jected. Very often small stones or gravel, com- posed of calcium carbonate tinted with bilirubin, are passed. The occurrence of traces of heavy metals, e.g. Ca, Zn, As, emphasises the iuqjort- ance of the bile as a medium for excretion. With regard to the causes leading to the forma- tion of gall stones, it has been surmised that in the case of cholesterin ones, two factors may have played a part, viz. insufficiency of bile salts to keep the cholesterin in solution, or excessive formation of the latter. The most probable cause leading to the formation of both kinds of calculi is obstruction to the bile out- flow owing to catarrhal conditions of the ducts, when the excessive secretion of mucus or the shedding of epithelium may at least aid in their production. Pancreatic Secretion.—Nature and Method OF Secretion. — The most important changes wiiich the food-stuft's undergo are the result of the action of the paHcre(ttic juice. The acid chyme is gradually neutralised by the clear alkaline fluid which is secreted by the cells lining the pancreatic acini, and which is poured into the duodenum through "Wirsung's duct. If the fluid be obtained from a fistula, it is found at the outset to have a specific gravity of about 1"03; but, after some time has elajjsed, it becomes poorer in proteids and of lower specific gravity. In carnivora and oumivora the secretion is not a continuous one. During activity the cells of the pancreatic acini undergo distinct alterations. Thus at the beginning of digestion the granules of zymogen gradually disappear from the inner zone until the whole cell at last appears clear. Then the granules are again formed in the inner part, the outer zone acting as the storehouse for the material out of which the zymogen is formed. These zymogen granules are only transformed into the active ferment after the gland has been exposed to the air for some time, or after it has been subjected to the action of weak alkalies or acids. The amouiU of the juice secreted in twenty-four hours is imjjossible to estimate accurately, as in cases of fistula it undergoes marked alterations, rapidly also becoming poorer in solids. As in other similar secretory pro- cesses, the secretion is accompanied with vascular dilatation. Nervous Mechanisji.—If the vagus be stimu- lated, there is an increase in the amount secreted, the fluid also being thick in consistence ; while, if this nerve be cut, and its central end stimu- lated, the flow is greatly diminished, or may be stopped altogether. A rather important cause of stoppage of secretion is vomiting, here also the influence of the vagus making itself felt. It is an interesting fact that the acid chyme, on coming into contact with the duodenal mucous membrane, causes an increased pancreatic secre-