EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUELS": 501 Podtimi of Patient.—The patient should He upon a narrow table of a convenient height, the head reclining upon a firm pillow. Some good source of illumination siiould be at hand [e.g. limelight, electric light, etc.), so that by means of a forehead mirror the operator may reflect a strong beam of light into the opening in the bone. Some operators use the mallet and the gouge to open the antrum and the adjoining cells; others (Macewen, Ballance) prefer the bur worked by a suitable motor, claiming that by its use there is no risk of concussion, and that a cavity with perfectly smooth walls is left behind. Whichever operation be selected, and by whichever set of instruments the bone be opened, the object to be attained is to open up the antrum and adjoining mastoid cells, to follow the covu-se of any pyogenic lesions -which may present themselves, opening up if need be the groove for the lateral sinus, inspecting minutely the roof of the antrum, attic, and middle ear, and finally establishing an efficient and avascular barrier between the middle ear and the adjoining vulnerable parts within the cranium. tSchwartze's Operaticni.—An incision is made parallel to and ^ of an inch behind the attach- ment of the auricle from the linea temporalis to the apex of the mastoid process. Any bleeding points are to be caught and tied. The peri- osteum is now separated from its attachments along the whole length of the incision, and is drawn forwards until the posterior bony margin of the external meatus is brought fully into view. The position of the mastoid antrum is now to be defined (see p. 497). By means of a gouge and mallet or by means of a rotatary bur the bone is caiitiously removed, frequent examina- tion being made with a fine probe luitil the cavity of the antrum has been reached. Its depth from the surface may vary from | of an inch to I of an inch. Once the cavity of the antrum has been reached its extent can be r-eadily gauged by exploration with an antrum hook. The suiTOunding bone should now be freely and rapidly cut away until a conical cavity has been formed with its base uppermost and its main axis parallel to the posterior wall of the auditory meatus. Adjoining mastoid cells, if diseased, should lie opened and their contents scraped out by means of spoons or curettes. A stream of some antiseptic fluid should then be driven through the antral cavity, tuitil it emerges freely from the external auditory meatus. It may be, and fre(juently is, necessary to enlarge the passage between the antrum and the middle ear, so as to secure free drainage. This may be done by means of small cutting forceps, spoons, or the rotatory bur. Once a perfectly free connnunication with the middle ear has been established, a drainage tube should be placed in the antrum and stitched to the edges of tlie original incision, which may now be sewn up. Subsequent treatment consists in thorough irrigation of the antrum and middle ear by means of various antiseptic solutions. When all suppuration has ceased and the parts oper- ated upon have remained dry for from ten days to a fortnight the tube may be withdrawn. Owing to the formation of tufts of granulation tissue, free drainage is occasionally impeded. When such masses form they should be removed either by means of a sharp spoon or by the application of caustic. Occasionally the tend- ency to their formation is so great that it is advisable to insert a lead plug into the antral opening instead of a rubber drainage tube, the weight and the pressure of the spigot materially assisting in checking their formation. Stackers Operation.—The incision through the soft parts is the same as in the Schwartze opera- tion, except that it is carried round the auricle to a point just above the tempoi'o-maxillary articulation. After all bleeding points have been secured the periosteum is raised and drawn forward until the bony margin of the external auditory meatus is in full view. By means of a fine raspatory the cartilaginous meatus is now raised from its attachments, and along with the auricle is drawn forwards on to the cheek. In this way the tympanic structures are fully exposed. The outer wall of the attic is now removed luitil an antrum hook introduced into the attic and drawn outwards meets with no obstruction. All bony prominences should now be carefully bevelled down, and diseased ossicles, granulation-tissue tufts, and carious foci succes- sively dealt with. The auricle and cartilaginous meatus are now replaced, a drainage tube inserted into the meatus, and the original skin incision carefully sewn up. The Sdiivartie-Stacke operation, a combination of the two operations just described, is the one now most usually performed. After the usual skin incision and retraction of the soft parts the antrum is opened as above detailed and the posterior wall of the cartilaginous meatus de- tached from its bony bed. The bridge of bone which separates the antrum from the external meatus should now be cut away, great care being taken whilst removing its deepest portion to avoid injuring the facial nerve or the external semicircular canal. The antro-tympanic cavity thus formed should be carefully cleansed, dis- eased ossicles, remnants of the membrana tym- pani, granulation tissue, and carious foci being successfully dealt with. As in the Stacke opera- tion the subsequent treatment consists in en- deavouring to secure a permanently dr}'epithelial lining in the cavities thus exposed. To attain this end the posterior wall of the cartilaginous ! meatus is split longitudinally along its centre up