434 DUODENITIS Duodenitis.—Inflammation of the duo- denum (q.v.). DuOdenO-.—In compound words duodeno- means relating to tlie duodenum: e.g. duodeno- tomy is the operation of cutting into the duodenum; duodenostomy is that of making a permanent opening into the duodenum through the abdominal wall; duodeno-enlerostomy is that of making a permanent communication between the duodenum and another part of the intestine ; and duodenocholecystostomy is that of making a permanent communication between the duo- denum and the gall-bladder. Duodenum. See also Abdomen, In- juries OF {Lesions of Intestine); Appendicitis {Diagnosis from Duodenal Ulcer); Burns and Scalds {Intestinal Complications, Ulcer of Duodenum); Htematemesis {Causes and Source) : Intestines, Diseases of {Malformations of the Duodenum) ; Intestines, Diseases op {Ulcers of the Duodenum); Intestines, Diseases of {Malig- nant Disease); Liver, Diseases of {Aneurysm of Hepatic Artery, Diagnosis); Mbl^ena {Causes, Duodenal Ulcer); Peritonitis, Acute General {Etiology, Perforation of Duodenal Llcer); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Alimentary Canal, Duodenum); Post - Mortem Methods {Examination of the Body-Cavities); Stomach AND Duodenum, Diseases of {Anatomy, Diges- tion, Diseases, Morbid Anatomy, Ulcer, etc.); Stomach, Surgical Affections {Complications of Gastric Llcer).—Affections of the duodenum are of great interest both from a medical and surgical stand-point. But, as the great majority of diseases which involve the duodenum cannot be clearly differentiated clinically from those of the pyloric end of the stomach and the small intestine, these will be described in other articles. The object here is to present a brief epitome of the various disorders. There are certain points of anatomical and physiological importance; the position, the horse-shoe shape, the close connection with the head of the pancreas, and the entrance of the common bile-duct, are all of great clinical im- importance. With regard to position this may be slightly modified by alterations in the position of the stomach and intestine {vide " Enteroptosis"). Short of enteroptosis, however, a careful ex- amination of post-mortem cases made at random readily reveals greater variations in the position of the abdominal viscera than is usually thought of during life. The close relationship between the receptive and motor mechanism of the duodenum and the stomach, and also the influence of its secretion, is fully considered in the article " Digestion and Metabolism." The most striking and obvious perversion of this mechanism is seen in the familiar class of case known as bilious vomiting, where, as a result of combined motor hyperactivity and relaxation of the pyloric orifice, the vomiting of bile is brought about. Apart from this obvious derangement, it is likely that there are many other perversions of function that are not so readily nor so definitely represented by definite outward symptoms. Thus it is impossible to believe that in many cases of dyspepsia the function of the duodenum is not very definitely interfered with. We are led to this opinion by, among other things, the close relationship that obtains between the motor activity of the muscle of the duodenum and that of the stomach and intestine. In the absence of obvious changes in the fasces, we |are perhaps not fully justified in making a diagnosis of duodenal dyspepsia, but it is not unlikely that some cases of dyspepsia, where the various sensory symptoms develop several hours after the ingestion of food, associated it may be with the presence of pain on pressure to the right of the middle line in the right hypochondriac region, are really cases where the secretory or sensori-motor mechanism of the duodenum is primarily at fault. A simple ulcer is met with here which may present all the clinical features of, and be clinically indistinguishable from, gastric ulcer. The ideas formerly entertained regarding the great frequency of ulceration of the duodenum as a sequel of burns have been modified some- what during the last few years, merely as a result of more careful investigation into the truth of the old text-book statements {see " Bums "). Simple ulceration may develop as a result of irritation from a large gall-stone. Malignant Disease.—This is by far the most important lesion, and specially in view of the possibility of beneficial results following early operative interference. As it is impossible clinically to differentiate between a primary morbid growth of the duodenum and one in- volving the head of the pancreas or pylorus, this condition will be described more appropri- ately in the section on these viscera. It is sufficient to indicate here the great importance of a thorough examination of the faeces as a diagnostic factor in such cases. The absence of bile in the stools suggests some obstruction to the excretion of bile probably involving the orifice of the duct; the presence of undigested fat in the fa;ces, and occasionally the presence of glycosuria, would rather point to the pancreas as the primary focus of disease. Inflammations.—These are of no great clinical significance in themselves; they may be second- ary to gastric catarrh, or merely a local mani- festation of the general enteritis present. If severe, jaundice may develop; this, however, usually signifies an extension of the catarrhal process to the bile-ducts {see " Gail-Bladder and Bile-Ducts ").