16 BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS usually found, probabl}' due either to extension of the inflammatory process right down to the air-vesicles and pulmonary stroma, or to direct infection by various micro-organisms. (For fuller details see " Pneumonia.") Symptoms.—Acute bronchitis in its clinical aspects presents every gradation from a mild and transient cold on the chest to an intensely acute and rapidly fatal disease attended with urgent dyspnoea, cyanosis, and collapse. In the milder forms, or tracheo-bronchitis, the attack is usually ushered in by the symptoms of an ordinary " cold," witla lachrymation, sneezing, and a stifthess and soreness of the throat. The catarrh may extend gradually to the chest, involving the larynx with resulting hoarseness, and causing a sense of rawness and soreness behind the sternum. In other cases the cold seems to settle on the chest from the outset without obvious pharyngitis and laryn- gitis. Initial rigors are not usual; but a sense of chilliness, shiverings, pains in the bones and back, general malaise, headache, drowsiness, and languor, with more or less gastric catarrh, hepatic disturbances, and constipation, commonly characterise the earlier stages. The pulse and respiration are moderately quickened ; the skin, at first dry, soon becomes moist. In still other cases, particularly in the old or very young, the onset may be almost sudden, witli severe cough and urgent dyspnoea, as Wilson Fox describes it, almost reproducing the phenomena of spasmodic asthma, but differ- ing from the latter in its persistence ; or cough and dyspnoea may set in acutely, but without so distinct spasmodic element, followed after a few hours by the expectoration of an abundant, glairy, blood-stained mucus. In milder cases the temperature is but slightly raised ; but with the more severe it may range between 101° F. and 102° or 103°, showing the usual evening rise and the morning declitie. The urine is of the usual febrile character, of high sjaecific gravity, high-coloured, loaded with lithates and urea, and free from albumen unless complications are present. The cough at first is harsh, loud, and ringing, either coming in frequently repeated single coughs, or in paroxysms which are exceedingly harassing to the patient, accompanied by a sense of oppression and tightness in the chest and a considerable soreness beneath the sternum and along the attachments of the diaphragm, the severe pai'oxysms sometimes ending in vomiting. It is often most distressing in the earliest stages before there is any expectoration, being then due to irritation of the inflamed bronchial mucous membrane, the irritation being referred to the laryngo-tracheal region. After an interval the cough is attended with expectoration, which at first is thin and watery, and frothy, consisting of serous exudation con- taining the ciliated epithelium which is shed very early. As the disease progresses, it becomes more consistent and ropy, from the increased exudation of mucus, and more oi' less opaque, owing to the numerous round cells thrown off from the deeper epithelial layers, becoming in turn muco-purulent and purulent. The cough is then due, not to irritation of the dry mucosa, but to the accumulating secretions which require to be got rid of, and is therefore apt to be more severe on rising from the recum- bent position after sleep. Streaks of blood are sometimes seen in the sputum, especially in the eai'lier stages when the cough is severe. Dyspnoea is seldom pronounced when the larger tubes alone are affected. When the smaller tubes are extensively implicated, owing to the excessive contraction of the muscular coat acting in the mannei' explained above, and perhaps in part from the valve-like action of the accunudating secretion, more air is drawn into the lung than can be expired, and the lungs consequently become over-distended and the respiratory movements shallow and ineffectual. It is remarkable that the dyspnoea is abdominal and expii'atory, rather than inspirator}', in contradistinction to the dyspnoea due to obstruc- tion in the larynx or trachea. When the air- vesicles are already distended with the air which no effort of the patient can effectually expire, but little or no more air can enter, and thus there is not much tendency for the secretion to be sucked in. Expectoration is then attended with much difhculty, and the thick, yellow, sticky secretion from the small tubes is seen to hang in strings suspended in the lower watery layer from the upper layer of frothy mucus from the upper larger bronchi. Sometimes the expectoration is very scanty in capillary bronchitis, even when moist rales are audible over the chest. An attack of acute bronchitis may assume an asphyxiating type, either from a simple bron- chitis of the larger tubes occurring in a debilitated patient, especially in the emphy- sematous, or from a very extensive implication of the smaller bronchi, or from widespread involvement of the capillary bronchi. Though capillary bronchitis in the adult may be remark- ably sudden and severe in its onset, it not infrequently commences with the symptoms of an ordinary mild bronchitic attack. Rigors are rare, says Walshe, and vomiting rarer. But nervous symptoms supervene early and are pronounced, the patient is restless and drowsy, the pulse rapid and small, cyanosis is a marked feature, and there is complete loss of appetite. Muttering delirium at night and sleeplessness are common, but acute maniacal excitement is not unknown. The acute dyspnea, cyanosis, and active, sometimes maniacal, delirium when strong, young adults are the subject of acute capillary bronchitis, form a very painful clinical picture. If the attack cannot be relieved the patient rapidly becomes asphyxiated. Walshe,