BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHIECTASIS 30 of the patient. A dry, warni, or equable climate, and remedies that imjjrove the appetite and nutrition, are advisable. Amongst such remedies may be included cod-liver oil and malt extracts, the hypophosphites and glycerophos- phates, with or without one of the following tonics : quinine, iron, or strychnine. Two drugs appear to act in a twofold manner. Benzol in iive- to ten-minim doses in a flavoured emulsion, and creasote in capsules of one, two, or more minims, not only increase appetite and improve the digestion, but probably act as antiseptics. They are both easily tolerated after the first few doses. Any or all of these, especially if combined with the influence of a dry, pure air, increase the vigour and recuperative power of the patient, and probably lessen the tendency to catarrh. Complications.—Jironcli itis mid catarrhal affec- tions of the lungs must be treated on general principles. Cardiac failure will need the ad- ministration of digitalis or cardiac tonics. Care should be taken in the case of systemic engorge- ment to encourage the action of the liver secre- tion by administration of small doses of mercury or cholagogue purgatives, and to promote diuresis. Alimentary troubles are to be dealt with by sedative treatment or digestive tonics, with bland, unirritating nourishment. If hcBmoptysis occurs, absolute rest in the recum- bent position should be prescribed, unless the symptom is very slight. In case of profuse haemorrhage, morphia may be given with caution, combined with remedies that diminish arterial tension, while the amount of fluid in the diet miist be diminished. Special Treatment.—The object is to diminish bronchial irritation and inflammation and to promote antisepsis. Guaiacol is of special value when given in doses of 3 to 5 grains several times a day in capsules or cachets. Terebene (5 grains in capsules), oil of turpentine (10 to 20 minims with mucilage in an emulsion), benzoin (10 to 20 minims of the compound tincture), or benzoic acid (5 grains), ammoniacum or guaiacum (half to one ounce of the mistura ammoniaci or mistura guaiaci)—all these are found to be of service in diminishing chronic catarrh and in lessening the bronchorrhcea or excessive secretion. Many of these remedies act directly through the blood, and some, like guaiacol, are probably eliminated through the respiratory mucous mem- brane. If large cavities are present in which secretion accumulates and decomposes, it is of the utmost importance that all the means at our disposal should be adopted to empty these cavities as frequently as possible. Without this the value of astringent treatment is diminished, and all the subsequent measures that are now to be described will be of little value. Methods of ern.pAying Bronchiectatic Cavities.— Change of posture will often produce violent cough with the expulsion of a large amount of expectoration. In some cases the act of lying down, stooping, or even leaning out of bed is sufficient. The occasional paroxysmal attacks are rather to be encouraged than not. The Continuous Inhalation of Creasote.—The continuous treatment by the inhalation of crea- sote has found great favour, and is probably more successful than any other method in bad cases. The patient should be placed in a special room or chamber, in which an ounce or two of ordinary commercial creasote is vaporised on ;i small metal bath heated by a spirit lamp. The patient's eyes are covered, and the nostrils plugged with cotton - wool. He inhales the dense fumes of creasote vapour for a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, at first every other day. Ultimately lie should be subjected to it for one hour to one hour and a half daily by slow increments in the length of treatment. Tolerance is soon established, and in many cases the relief is considerable. Violent cough and more or less complete emptying of the cavities is the result. Probably some absorption of the drug and possibly a certain amount of local effect are produced, though this is doubtful. Occasionally the amelioration is rapid and decided, but in many cases the result of months of treatment is only a diminution of expectora- tion, and especially of the fcetor. Occasionally brilliant results have been produced. It may be asserted that better results have been obtained at the Bronipton Hospital from the prolonged use of creasote inhalation than from any other form of treatment. Provided the dilated bronchi can be partially or wholly emptied, other methods of treatment which are believed to have a local effect may be valuable. These are (1) Moist Inhalations. Creasote, turpentine, carbolic acid, or compound tincture of benzoin are mi.ved with hot water at a temperature of 140° in an inhaler. It is well known that though these remedies are deeply inhaled they do not reach far down the trachea. The plan of treatment is well recognised, but is not of permanent value. (2) Intra-laryngeal Injections.—A 2 per cent solution of guaiacol or of creasote in menthol and olive oil injected daily or every second day is beneficial in some cases. (3) Treatment hy Drugs which promote Anti- sepsis and diminish Foetor.—Guaiacol and crea- sote have already been mentioiied. Garlic, 1 to 3 grains in cachet, or 1 to 4 drms. of the syrup, either alone with equal quantity of syrup of tolu, or in combination with creasote and syrupus picis liquidse, has also been recommended. The disagreeable odour following its use is a dis- advantage. Operative p}rocedwres have not been attended by good results on the whole. The opening and drainage of cavities at the base of the lung have been frequently tried, usually when it was