40 BURS^, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF constant, while a false bursa appears adven' titiously over some abnormal prominence of bone, e.g. the so-called bunion, or the thickening over the prominent spinous processes in an angular deformity of the spine. The size of a false bursa is a fair indication of the duration of the abnormal prominence of bone, and the longer the false bursa has existed, the nearer does it approach in structure to the true bursa. A true bursa is a simple synovial sac placed between two surfaces to prevent friction, and such sacs are either deep-seated or subcutaneous. In structure a bursa is a sac consisting ex- ternally of areolar tissue of varying density, and lined internally by a more or less perfect synovial membrane of flattened cells. The cells are not continuous over the whole surface of the synovial membrane, but are distributed in patches, the spaces between being filled by the ground substance of the comiective tissue of the wall. Numerous blood-vessels and some nerves are found in the walls, and when enlargement takes place the vessels increase in size and number. The cavity of a bursa is a lymphatic space in the same sense as is the synovial cavity of a joint; in fact, a bursal cavity is an isolated articular cavity. The false bursje are at first recesses in the subcutaneous connective tissue, and are not bounded by true synovial mem- brane ; but after a time patches of cells which have an epithelioid appearance are seen in the walls, and a more or less perfect bursal cavity is formed. The synovial sheaths of tendons are true bursfe, and facilitate the movements of the tendons in their osseo-fibrous grooves. These sheaths in no way differ in structure from bursje. Situations of Burs^e. — In the head, neck, and trunk. Apart from the intra - articular synovial sacs of the temporo-maxillary, verte- bral, and intercostal articulations, bursse are here very few in number. An important one is intei-posed between the posterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone and the thyro-hyoid ligament. It sometimes becomes enlarged and forms an encysted fluid swelling, projecting in the floor of the mouth. In the upper extremity bursee are very numerous. An important one surgically is the large subscapular bursa between the sub- scapularis and the deeper muscles. This bursa is often the site of the dry form of bursitis, when movements of the scapula become painful, limited, and accompanied by distinct creaking. If fluid is poured out the scapula is displaced backwards. A large subcutaneous and often false bursa is found over the acromion process of the scapula, especially in those who carry weights on their shoulders. In the immediate neighbourhood of the shoulder-joint are three bursse, one beneath the tendon of the subscapu- laris, which frequently communicates with the joint, one beneath the tendon of the infra- spinatus, which rarely opens into the joint, and one large sac beneath the deltoid, which has no dii'ect connection with the joint. The investing sheath of the long head of the biceps may be regarded as a bursa. Between the tendon of the teres minor and the shoulder a bursa is occasionally found, and one between the tendons of the teres major and latissimus dorsi. In the neighbourhood of the elbow-joint are three well- known burScB, one between the skin and ole- cranon process, a second between the tendon of the triceps and the upper part of the olecranon, and a third intervening between the biceps tendon and the tuberosity of the radius. At the wrist the tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors, as well as the median nerve, are surrounded beneath the annular ligaments by a large loose synovial membrane which extends upwards to the radio-carpal articulation and downwards to a little beyond the bases of the metacarpal bones, being prolonged farther down in the tendons of the little finger than in the others. A sheath exists around the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis as it passes beneath the annular ligament and communicates with the large flexor bursa at the upper border of the annular ligament. The large bursa of the palm of the hand is important as the site of the so-called "compound" ganglion or tubercular form of burs- itis. Beneath the insertions of the following muscles bursfe are found—extensor carpi radialis longior and brevier, also between the surface of the formermuscle and the supinatorbrevis. False burste also form over the knuckles and inter- phalangeal joints in those who labour manually. In the p)elvis and lower extremity the bursa over the tuber ischii is large and multilocular, and frequently enlarges in tailors and weavers, hence originates the expression " weaver's bottom." Beneath the gluteus maximus are two bursfe, one multilocular between it and the great trochanter, and one between the muscles and the vastus externus. Other bursse are found beneath the insertions of the gluteus medius and minimus, while between the obturator internus and the margin of the small sciatic foramen is a bursa which is often continuous with another between the tendon of the muscle and the hip-joint. At the front of the joint is a bursa beneath the psoas which often com- municates with the joint. Above the knee there is a bursa beneath the quadriceps extensor, also in communication with the joint. The bursse in relation with the patella and its ligament are three in number. In front of the lower half of the patella and upper half of the ligament is the pre-patellar bursa of "housemaid's knee." Over the lower half of the ligament is a second bursa, and between the ligamentum patellse and the tubercle is a third bursa. In the popliteal space are the following bursse : On the outer side and above the joint are found one beneath the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and one beneath the tendon of