DEFORMITIES 279 Acute, Deformities from) ; liuRNS and Scalds (Results, Deformities); Chest, Deformities of; Cicatrices {Contracting); Hip-Joint, Diseases OF {Cross-Legged Deformity); Labour, Precipi- tate AND Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Mandible, Fracture, Deformity); Muscles, Diseases of {Pseudohypertrophic Myopathy, De- fwmities); Palate {Cleft Palate) ; Pregnancy, Affections of OvUiM and Decidua {Fatal De- formities from Amniotic Adhesions, etc.); Rheu- matism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Deformities); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Lateral Curva- ture, Angular Deformity, etc.) ; Teratology ; Wry-Neck. Arthrodesis Definition.—Arthrodesis is an operation de- signed to fix a joint in a case of entire paralysis of the muscles in the neighbourhood of that joint. Its object is ankylosis either fibrous or osseous, and it is obtained by complete removal of the articular cartilages. Lndications for Operation. — I. When the paralytic condition of the limb is very severe. 2. In poor patients who are unable to provide themselves with apparatus. 3. When an ap- paratus is hardly tolerated and causes pressure- sores. 4. Not in spastic cases nor in para- lytic cases after acute febrile disorders, as paralysis especially in zymotic diseases shows a strong tendency to recovery. 5. When two joints of a limb are hopelessly tiail-like it is advisable to fix one or both of them. Methods.—When the operation is done at the knee or at the ankle, the two joints most favour- able, the essential part of the proceeding is the total removal of the articular cartilage in such a way that the bone surfaces are left in contact. At the Knee.—The usual method is as follows, and is carried out with all aseptic precautions. An incision is made transversely across the joint from one condyle of the femur to the other, and passing across the middle of the patella. The patella is sawn through, and is then turned upwards and downwards. Tlu^ articular cartilage is removed from the Ijack of the patella. The joint is now fully exposed and treated as follows :—All the articular cartilage is carefully cut away with a gouge, scissors, and sharp spoon or knife. From the anterior sur- faces of the tibia and of the femur it is also advisable to take a slice of bone off verticall}', so as to fix the posterior surface of the patella denuded of its cartilage to them. The bones are now wired together in such a way that the wire passes through the lower fragment of the patella, then through the tibia, the feniTir, and through the upper fragment of the patella. The limb is now placed in the straight position, and should be kept immobile by plaster of Paris for at least two months, and after that a posterior splint is sutticient. At the Ankle. — Considerable difference of opinion exists as to the most convenient incision for the ankle, whether it should be anterior, posterior, or external. On the whole, the anterior method gives the most room. Against the anterior incision there are urged the section of the artery with deprivation of the foot of a part of its blood-supply, and the difficulty of getting the tendons to unite satisfactorily. But in practice these objections are not serious. The incision is made across the front of the joint from one malleolus to the other, dividing all the soft structures. The joint is thus freely opened, and the articular cartilages completely removed. It is not necessary to dissect away every piece of the synovial membrane, since in those cases in which it has been left its presence has not interfered with the formation of bone. But no loose pieces of cartilage are to be left in the wound, and none attached to the surface of the bone. It is often advisable to freely " stipple " the bony surfaces. The tendons are tlien united and the wound closed. The foot is placed in plaster of Paris at a right angle for six weeks. By this time firm fibrous union has occurred. To ensure osseous union, a difficult proceeding, the bones have been united by cat- gut, kangaroo - tendon, or ivory pegs. But absolute osseous ankylosis is not necessary, and is rather to be deprecated at the ankle. Close fibrous luiion allowing about 10 degrees of movement gives the best possible result. In cases of paralytic talipes calcaneus the best incision is a ciirved one beginning behind the j^eronei tendons, running down to the point of the heel and then upwards to the posterior edge of the flexor longus pollicis. The flap so made is lifted up with the tendo Achillis in it, and the opportunity is thus given of shortening the tendon. The joint is then freely opened and the cartilage removed. Results.—The result of the operation is to render a flail-like limb comparatively secure, and to lessen the number and weight of ap- paratus rcipiired. No fear need be entertained of difficulty in obtaining primary union in these paralytic limbs. Congenital Dislocations Congenital Dislocation of the Hip.—Etiology. —It is more common in the female than in the male sex, and is also hereditary. The number of unilateral and bilateral cases is about equal. One important factor in its production is a breech presentation, and if this be combined with a faulty acetabulum then the head of the femur is easily displaced at birth. Pathology.—The Aceiahvlum.—In some cases it is entirely wanting, wiiile its site is occupied by a convex mass of bone. In other cases the cotyloid cavity is present, but is defective. It may be found small and shallow, and about one inch in diameter. In shape it is sometimes