DIPLOPIA 401 image coii-e«ponding to the right eye, and the right image to the left eye); a common cause is squint. See Hysteria [Ocular Symjitoms); Lacrimal Apparatus (Diseases of GlnnJ, Chronic Adenitis); Myasthexia Gravis [Symptomato- loij;/); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Imflammation {Diajinosis, Eye-Sijmpto>iis); Ocular Muscles, Affections (Para/i/sis); Strabismus; Syphilis [Tertiary, Eye - Symptoms); Thyroid Gland, Medical [Exophthalmic Goitre, Symptoms). DiplOSOmuS. — A double monster or united twins in wliicli tliere are two bodies, the heads being more or less fused. DipioteratolOgfy. — Tlie science of double monsters, their characters, classification, and mode of production. DiproSOpuS.—The teratological condi- tion in whicli tliere are two faces, moi'e or less fused into one ; there may be four eyes, or three (one of which is a fused double eye), or two, and four ears or three. DipSesiS.—Excessive thirst (Gr. Sti/'aw, I thirst). Dipsomania. Symptoms . . . . . . 401 Nature and Pathology . . . 402 Diagnosis and Etiology . . . 402 Treatment ...... 40.3 See also Alcoholic Insanity [Defiiution); Hy'pnotism [Therapeutic Uses, Di2}somania); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms [Imptdse and Obsession, Dipsomania). Definition. — Dipsomania is an elaborate idiosj'ncrasy towards alcohol with occasional paroxysmal and irresistible impulses to drink excessively. Symptoms.—Dipsomania is, ^;a)' excellence, the alcoholic disease of good people. Both men and women are the victims of it, but women less frequently. The idiosyncrasy which it betokens is a congenital ineipiililjrium, and occurs gener- ally, but not always, in obviously neurotic sub- jects. The paroxysmal phase usually develops for the first time in the second half of adoles- cence, but may occur any time after the patient has tasted alcohol and has discovered his sus- ceptibility to it. True dipsomania is compara- tively rare. One cannot insist too strongly upon the fact that dipsomania is not the development of an alcoholic habit. It is much more truly the exact opposite—an abrupt and occasional depar- ture from habit. We have to suppose—though we cannot always obtain evidence of it—that the patient, on having tasted alcohol, has been aware of an excessive and peculiar reaction to it. Not that he has become rapidly intoxicated, or even that anything which an onlooker might observe has occurred, but that the patient has VOL. II discovered in alcohol a source of acute, expansive pleasure. If he be a very strong man, the paroxysmal impulse may be indefinitely post- poned. In my opinion there are quite a number of patients in whom the disease never becomes actual. They carefully avoid what is to them a very dangerous indulgence. More frequently, however, the patient does not deny himself so strictly, and occasional deliberate indulgences strengthen, in his mind, the impression of delight in drinking. Some cases have been described in which, almost from the first, there was no effective check upon drinking; but the usual thing is for the patient to resist his vice successfully for a considerable period. Sooner or later, however, in typical cases, the paroxj^smal phase occurs—a quite unique and unmistakable development. The usual clinical picture is as follows:— On some occasion of fatigue—towards the end of a busy season, under the depression of bodily illness or mental stress, during lactation, or in the reaction which occurs in busy people who suddenly find themselves at leisure—something- very like an attack of acute melancholia sets in. The patient goes off his sleep and loses appetite, becomes costive, and has a dry skin, and dry, furred tongue, suffers some cardiac discomfort or pain, and some mild degree of dyspnoea. The characteristic feeling which persists is one of acute apprehension. This preliminary stage is short—often not more than from six to forty- eight hours. Then occurs the alcoholic obses- sion. The patient becomes aware that the idea of drinking is occurring to his mind with un- pleasant frequency. Do what he will to draw his attention to sane projects, he finds the task impossible, and, a few hours later, the alcoholic idea is constant in his mind, and his interest in other things almost completely in abeyance. Still acutely apprehensive, the patient now finds himself struggling against a tyrannous impulse. The stage of obsession is past. With some fugitive thoughts of what he is drifting away from — home, business, honour — the patient resigns himself to the immanence of the alcoholic idea. Then he passes from the contemplative to the pui-poseful suggestion. His struggle now is not with his thoughts, but with his impulse. He is entirely and vainly occupied in trying to compel himself to sit still or to go to a safe place, in trying to resist the ungovernable impulse to go to the wine cellar or tlie public- house. This may seem a common occurrence, a mere account of what temptation is to every man who tries to break a bad habit. But no one who has seen a dipsomaniac in the phase of impulse will easily forget the picture, or confuse it with the ordinary features of alcoholism. The general impression suggests the idea of an instinct. One is reminded of how animals behave under the intense excitement of the 26