302 DENGUE extremely variable, and may be scarlatinal, rubeo- loid, or urticarial; it is usually present to some extent. Tingling, itching, and numbness of the lingers often foreshadow its appearance on the palms—its frequent starting-point. It may begin there as small red spots, disappearing on pressure, which gradually coalesce and perhaps spread all over the body; in some cases com- bined with swelling. Though generally most profuse on hands and knees, the face may be first affected, as in Christie's cases; it fades in order of appearance. A branny desquamation, often trifling, practically always follows it. This begins in about three days, and may persist for several; it is accom- panied in many cases by intolerable itching. The eruption usually disappears in twenty- four hours, though it may persist two or three days, and fever, if present, is likewise transient and very slight. At the commencement of this stage, swelling of the cervical, inguinal, and axillary glands not uncommonly occurs, if it has not done so before. At Zanzibar the occipital glands were always involved. The already noted buccal congestion and swelling of joints may also make their appearance now, and rarely, ptyalism, orchitis, or angina. Varieties occxir in separate outbreaks and different localities, the cases differing in severity and in the period of incidence, relative promi- nence, or even existence of certain features, such as swellings of joints and glands, pains, hajmor- rhages, eruptions, or the occurrence of relapses. For instance, in Calcutta, in 1853, the characteristic pains were infrequent, and the buccal mucous membrane was prominently involved. In mild cases, too, the course may be very short and all symptoms absent, except perhaps slight fever and eruption. True relapses occiu", sometimes due to indiscre- tions in diet or exposure. Serious complications, excepting rare hyper- pyrexia and mild inflammation of serous mem- branes, are hardly ever seen unless from previous disease. Sequelae.—With desquamation the pains may vanish, but in many cases they persist in one or more joints and adjacent tissues, or perhaps return after an interval of days or weeks. They often trouble the patient for a considerable time, possess many of the features seen in the acute stage, and are specially liable to occur in elderly people. The shoulders, wrists, knees, and feet are the parts more commonly involved. Some debility, with antemia and anorexia, is usual after severe attacks, and insomnia, swollen glands, and furunculosis are not infrequent sequelce. Diagnosis is only difficult in sporadic cases or in the presence of concurrent epidemics of in- fluenza or yellow fever. Hamilton West demon- strates its resemblance to mild attacks of the latter, which he considers, however, distinguished by the different course, the greater frequency of jaundice, alliuminuria, and hremorrhage, and absence of the characteristic eruption. From influenza its distinction, at times a difficult task, is aided by infrequency of compli- cations, the season of 3'ear, and the pains, erup- tion, and desquamation. Some of these features, together with epi- demic prevalence, distinguish it from rheuma- tism, and, aided by geographical distribution, from measles and scarlatina, while in malarious countries blood examination is valuable for doubtful sporadic cases. Prognosis is always favourable, unless in patients already greatly debilitated, but by its effects dengue may predispose to other illness. Charles describes a rare pernicious type, witli oedema of lungs, cyanosis, coma, and hyper- pyrexia, as occurring in Calcutta. Treatment.—As the disease must run its course, this nmst be directed towards (1) limit- ing its diff'usion, (2) avoidance of complications and sequehc, and (.3) relief of symptoms. As complete isolation as possible in clean, well- warmed, and ventilated rooms, easily digestible nutritious diet, a simple diaplioretic, rest and warmth for all stages will best attain these ends, but can rarely in this disease be thoroughly carried out. Purgatives and emetics should, from the distressing movement they occasion, be given only if specially indicated. For high temperature, sponging, or, in the rare event of hyperpyrexia, ice and quinine hypodermically should be made use of, while gastric irritability is allayed by ice to suck, effervescents, and the usual remedies. Quinine is indicated in cases complicated by malaria. An ice-cap and nmstard pediluvia are of value in relieving headache, orantipyrin and phenacetin may be given. These drugs will also relieve the rheumatic pains, others recommended for the purpose being belladonna and salophen, while locally small sinapisms and liniments containing chloroform may be applied. If very obstinate, however, opium must be pre- scribed. Warm baths and camphorated oil help to> allay itching, while debility and anaemia demand the administration of stimulants, iron, and tonics.. For the rheumatic sequelai, tonics, salicylates, and potassium iodide, with massage and faradism,. have been advocated. Complete change of climate may be necessary. Denida,tion. — The separation of the superficial part of the uterine mucosa during menstruation ; it is then supposed to break down and be thrown off. If, on the other hand, a fertilised ovum is implanted on it, it forms for the ovum a nidus or nest, and grows into the decidual membranes.