CHOREA 137 Chorea Gravidarum Chorea, rare in the adult, is perhaj^s a little less rare in the pregnant. This is, however, by no means certain. Of 439 cases in the British Medical Association's collective report, 68 were females between 16 and 40, and of these 7 only were pregnant; of 28 delirious female cases, over 15 in the Kommune-hospitalet at Copenhagen, 7 were pregnant and 1 recently delivered. The jjroportions in these instances are 1 in 9 and 1 in 3, while the proportion of pregnant women to adult women in general is between these ratios and nearer the higher. Nevertheless, the asso- ciation of chorea and pregnancy is important both for prognosis and treatment. Cases of chorea in pregnancy exhibit the same relations to fright, rlieumatism, and endocarditis, hysteria, family tendencies, and previous chorea, as cases of chorea in general. Fifty-nine per cent of first attacks occur in the first pregnancy, but the ratio of illegitimacy is little if at all in excess of that of women in genei'al. Correspond- ing to this, the age at the first choreic pregnancy is usually under 25, but cases are on record at all ages up to 40. Chorea may recur in several pregnancies, the largest number of recorded attacks being 5, but choreic pregnancy may be preceded or succeeded by pregnancy free from chorea. Fully half of the attacks began in the first three months, and a third in the middle three months. A few cases are on record where chorea began during the puerperium, and two or three somewhat later. Of cases where the pregnancy ends spon- taneously two-thirds are delivered at term, the proportion of abortion being thus higher than in general. In about 40 per cent of the cases that recover the chorea terminates before the end of the pregnancy. There is no evidence to show what influence the death of the foetus, before delivery, has on the chorea; in a few cases the perception of the fcctal movements has exagger- ated the chorea, liecovery after delivery is, as a rule, gradual, as it is in chorea apart from pregnancy, but in a few recovery is sudden; in one case the chorea became chronic. The mor- tality cannot be exactly determined, but is certainly less than 1 in 5, and a considerable niimber of the fatal cases die from causes other than the chorea. In less than 3 per cent of the cases insanity followed the chorea, recovery taking place in a few weeks or months. In a number of cases infective processes have com- plicated or followed the chorea. The treatment of chorea in pi-egnancy is primarily the same as the treatment of chorea generally. Arsenic and salol, and the sedatives and narcotics, including general anaesthesia, must be employed according to the indications of the individual case. Whei'e the case is severe or becomes worse in spite of such treatment, the induction of abortion or of premature labour is justified. In practice this has not always given satisfactory results, but the cases were of great severity, and sometimes the delay had been too great. The induction should be made under ansesthesia, which may reasonably be prolonged till the completion of the delivery. In some cases digital dilatation of the cervix has stopped the chorea. In less severe cases and those which improve under general treatment, it is best to wait spontaneous labour and to watch that, interfering only if this seem specially required. Choreic Insanity There is probably no special form of insanity that can properly be called Choreic Insanity. In every patient suftering from chorea there is usually some mental disturbance. The patient may be dull and listless with apathy and loss of memory; I>ut these mental symptoms being so slight they are overlooked ; on the other hand, however, they may become so severe as to call for immediate treatment. Etiology.—Mental complications with chorea are more common with pregnant women, girls, and young men than with children. Usually there is an unstable inheritance. Symptoms.—1. Choreic Mania.—The excite- ment rarely begins before the end of the first and after the fourth week of the outbreak of the chorea. Often it is most difficult to say when the bounds of sanity have been passed, as the impulsiveness, agitation, or loss of control grow gradually. Sleep becomes more and more inter- rupted until it is finally lost altogether. The patient becomes destructive and dirty in his habits. Hallucinations of sight and hearing- may be present. He is incoherent, is fed with difficulty, and there is steady failure of physical condition. 2. Agitated Melancholia.—Patient is depressed with self-accusations, restless, despondent, and believes that he will never recover. There is often persistent refusal of food. This type is more common in young pregnant women. 3. Acute Delirium.—These cases differ from those of acute mania by the severity of both the mental and somatic symptoms. The mental condition resembles that of acute delirious mania. There are marked fever, hallucinations of sight, refusal of food, constant excitement, insomnia, great prostration and exhaustion, and the termination is often fatal. 4. Delusional Insanity.—Delusions of perse- cution with the belief that they are being annoyed may develop in cases of chronic chorea. 5. Stiqwr.—The mental hebetude and inatten- tion that is so common in choreic patients may become more profound, and they pass into a stuporose state. The memory is commonly very defective in these cases. Morbid Anatomy.—There are at present no definite macroscopical or microscopical changes