DIABETES MELLITUS 331 cerebral conditions occasionally tlic urine con- tains sugar, l)ut the quantity is only small, the specific gravity is not high, there is no per- chloride of iron reaction, there is no " acetone " smell of the breath and the urine, the peculiar dyspnoea is absent, and the pulse is often slow or normal; whilst in diabetic coma of the usual form the pulse is rapid, and dysjjua'a is a prominent symptom. Symptoms resemliling those of Kussmaul's diabetic coma are said to occur occasionally in other affections (cancer of the stomach, aniBmia, kidney disease), but in such cases (as well as in the alcoholic and cardiac forms of diabetic coma) the diagnosis can be made by the urine examination or by tiie methylene blue reaction of a drop of the blood. The patkolociical cltanges met with in patients dying of diabetic coma are not characteristic. The most constant are those in the renal epithelium already mentioned. In the variety of coma desci'ibed as diabetic collapse, it is very probable that the cause is cardiac failure owing to degeneration of the heart muscle. In the common variety of diabetic coma, fat embolism has been suggested as a cause in certain cases. According to Schmitz, the symptoms are due to a ptomaine formed in the intestine owing to obstinate constipation. The symptoms certainly point to the action of some toxic substance. Acetone and diacetic acid have been suggested as the ppison, but both substances can be given in large doses without producing coma (Dresch- feld and others). There is considerable evidence in favoiu- of intoxication by some organic acid (Stadelmanu), and /i-oxybutyric acid or crotonic acid are thought by some to be the toxic sub- stances. As alreadj' pointed out, the urine nearly alwaj's contains casts and a small (piantity of albumen in diabetic coma, and the renal epithelium frequently presents degenera- tive changes. Hence it appears probable tliat there is impairment of the renal functions. V. Harley has shown that symptoms resembling diabetic coma can be produced in animals by injecting grape-sugar into the jugular vein and preventing its elimination by ligaturing the ureters. Now in diabetic coma the sugar elimination and urine secretion usually diminish, and from a consideration of facts mentioned it appears not improbable that coma is due to poisoning owing to the kidneys failing to eliminate certain sidistances ])roduced in tlie diabetic organism. Forms op Diabetes and Glycosuiua.—There are two chief forms besides several sub-varieties. In the severe form the sugar excretion is great and does not cease when carbohydrates are excluded from the diet. There is often much wasting. This form is most coiumon in patients under middle age. In children and j'OTUig persons it sometimes runs a very rapid course (a few months or even less). In the mild forms of diabetes the symptoms and sugar excretion are not so marked. The sugar disappears from the urine on withdrawing the carbohydrates from the food. The j^atients are often above middle age, and they are not infrequently stout or gouty. The night urine contains less sugar than the day urine, or it may be free fi'om sugar. The course is often chronic. (This form is sometimes spoken of as chronic glycosuria.) There are also transitional and interviediatt varieties, and the mild form may pass into the severe. In some of the mildest forms thirst, diuresis, and other symptoms are absent, and the only signs of disease are made out by examination of the urine, which contains sugar and has a high specific gravity (diabetes decipiens). In another mild form the glycosiiria and other symptoms disap])ear from time to time {intermittent diabetes). It has already been pointed out that glycosuria may be secondary to a number of affections {syuiptoinatic glyco- suria— see article "Glycosuria"). Hanot, Chauflard, and others have drawn attention to a rare disease characterised by the associa- tion of symptoms of diabetes mellitus with bronzed pigmentation of the skin, and frequently with hypertrophic cirrhosis of the liver {diahete bronze). Tehmixatiox.—The severe forms always ter- minate fatally. The duration may Vie a few years (3-5); often it is shorter; occasionall}'it is a few months, or even less. In the mild cases life may lie prolonged for many years (10 or 20). In the mild cases by restricted or rigid diet the sympton^s may disappear entirely, but they usually return when an ordinary diet is taken. In rare cases dialietes is associated with symptoms of nephritis (pnrcnchymatous or interstitial), and the diabetic symjitoms may gradually subside whilst those of nephritis remain. Also occasionally (though very rarely) the symptoms of diabetes mellitus give place to those of diabetes insipidus. The fatal termination in diabetes mellitus is most frequently by dialictic coma. The next most frequent termination is by pulmonary phthisis. Other causes of death are carbuncle, gangrene, etc. The Progxosis depends chiefly on the form of the disease and the age of the patient. In the mild forms, especially if the sugar excretion can be checked by a rigid diet, and if the jiatient be over luiddle age, the prognosis is fairly favourable. But it is very grave in young persons and in the severe fnrms of the disease. Other unfavourable indications are marked wasting, the occurrence of pulmonary tuberculosis, a fanuly history of the disease, unfavourable conditions of life, Gerhardt's per- chloride of iron reaction in the urine, signs of commencing coma, onset of gangrene. Favourable indications in addition to those already mentioned are the association of obesity