147 CHROMOPSIA which on account of liypersesthesia of the retina there are subjective sensations of liyht in the form of white or coloured clouds {Hack Tuke). Chromosomes.—The larger threads of chromatin material which form, dnring mitotic cell division, when the nuclear membrane dis- appears. Chronic.—Long-continued, e.g. a linger- ing illness ; opposed to Acute {'[.v.). Chronotropic Fibres.—The nerve fibres which affect tlie rate of contraction of the heart {Engelmann). See Bathmotropic. Chrysarobinum. — Chrysarobin is a brownish yellow powder obtained from Goa Powder {Araroba) by extracting with hot chloro- form. It contains chrysarobin (CggH^yOv.) and chrysophanic acid (Cj,.H^O,,(OH).J. In the form of the Unguentum Chrysarohini it is used as a parasiticide in ringworm, etc.; but it stains the linen, and it is better, therefore, to apply it as a non-official pigmentimi (chrysarobin, 1 part, solution of gutta-percha, 9 parts), which does not stain. It is too irritating to the gastro- intestinal tract to give internally. See Drug Eruptions (Pigmentary); Pharmacology ; Pre- scribing ; Psoriasis {Local Treatment). ChrySOphan. — A bitter glucoside obtained from rhubarb and senna (CjyH,gOg); under the action of acids it breaks up into sugar and chrysophanic acid (C]r,Hjj,0^), a substance known also as rheic acid, rhuharbaric acid, rhubarbarin, and rumicin. By reducing chryso- phanic acid, chrysarobin may be obtained. ChthononoSOl Og'y.—The science deal- ing witli the geographical distribution of diseases {x6m', the soil; i/ocros, disease). Chthonophagfia.—Dirt-eating. ChurruS. See Charas ; Cannabis Indica. Chvostek's Symptom.—A state of hyperexritability of muscles and motor nerves, so that mechanical stimulation, such as a tap, will produce muscular contraction. See Tetany {Motor Syniptoin»). ChyiangriOma. — A lymphangioma, occurring s(jinetimes in the mucous membrane of the small intestine and stomach. Chyle.—The milky-looking fluid which is carried off from the small intestine (during digestion) by the lacteals or lymphatics; a variety of lymph containing 6 per cent of fat. See Ascites {Character of Fluid) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology ; Physiology, The Blood {Lymph). ChyleCChysiS. — An excessive secretion of chyle. ChyiOCele.—An accumulation of chyle in the tunica vaginalis. See Filariasis {Patho- genetic effects, Chylocele). Chyloderma. — Enlargement of the scrotum and inguinal glands with dilatation of the lymphatics of the skin, which form vesicles containing milky fluid in which filari;e can often be found; lymph - scrotum. See Filariasis (Lymph-Scrotmn). ChylopoiesiS.—The formation of chyle. See 'DiG'Eii'VK)^ {Intestinal Secretion); Physiology, Blood {Lymjjh). Chylothorax. •—An accumulation of chyle in the thoracic cavity, e.g. from rupture of the thoracic duct. Chylous Ascites.—The presence of chylous fluid in the peritoneal cavity from rupture or blocking of the thoracic duct or lacteals. See Ascites {Causation). Chyiuria.—A milky or chylous condition of the urine, usually due to the presence of filariaj in the blood. See Filariasis {Pathogenic effects, Chyiuria); Urine, Pathological Changes {Lipuria and Chyiuria). Chyme.—The food after it has been sub- jected to gastric digestion and before it has been acted on by the bile, the pancreatic, or the intestinal secretions. See Digestion and Meta-' BOLiSM {Gastric); Physiology, Food and Diges- tion {Stomach). ChymOSin.—A ferment or enzyme which coagulates alljumin, e.g. the casein of milk; rennin; pepsin. Cibisitome.—An instrument for lacerat- ing the capsule of the lens in the early part of the cataract operation {Petit-Radel); the name is derived from Kt/3to-t9, a pouch, and to/iij, section {Syd. Soc. Lex.). Cicatrices. Definition and Structure . . .147 Pathological Conditions of . . .148 Keloid ...... 149 Malignant Disease of . . . .150 See Burns and Scalds {Treatment, Pesults of Burns, etc.); Eyelids, Affections of {Unti-ojnon and Ectropion); Intestine, Diseases {Ulcers, Cicatrisations); Intestines, Surgical Affec- tions of (*S'i/'«V<Mres/Vo7H Ulcers); Liver, Diseases of ; Syphilis(^^CT-^/nr//, Gummata, and Cicatrices); Menstruation and its Disorders {Petention of Menses, Vaginal Atresia) ; Uterus, Malforma- tions OF {Stenosis). Cicatrices or scars are new formations of con- nective tissue which develop in place of losses of substance.