BURNS AND SCALDS 35 suppuration better. (4) The presence or absence of sepsis is a most important factor in regard to prognosis. Classification of Burns.—The classification most generally accepted is that of Dupuytren, which has for its basis the depth to which the injury has penetrated. He distinguishes six degrees — I. Hyperajmia or Erythema ; II. Vesication ; III. Partial destruction of the thickness of the true skin; IV. Destruction of whole thickness of the true skin; V. Charring of muscles ; and VI. Charring of bones. Clinical Features of Burns General Phenomena.—The severity of a bum depends chiefly on the extent of surface impli- cated, and to a less degree on the depth of the lesion. The intensity of the heat and the dura- tion of its application are also important factors. Almost all burns which are of sufficient severity to be brought \uider the notice of the surgeon present in point of time three distinct clinical stages—I. The stage of congestion atul pain ; II. the stage of fever and inflammation ; and III. the stage of supjmration. I. Stage of Congestion and Pain.—This stage lasts about forty-eight hours, during which the patient is in extreme agony, and the whole area involved in the injury is intensely congested and somewhat swollen. The patient suffers from a form of traumatic shock or collapse, attributable to reflex stimulation of the sym- pathetic nervous system. As a rule he lies moaning with pain, the face pale, the features drawn or shrivelled, the skin livid and moist with a cold, clammy sweat. The temperature is below the normal ; the pulse small, weak, and almost imperceptible ; and the respirations shallow and irregular. The urine is scanty and high-coloured, and the vital reactions gradually diminish. In cases which prove rapidly fatal the mind is clear at first, and may remain so to the end, or coma may supervene before death ensues. In some cases, especially in children, great mental excitement followed by delirium, cramps, and convulsions are marked clinical features Vjefore the fatal issue. In many cases even of great severity the patient shows a wonderful degree of apathy, lying still, and complaining of nothing except great thirst. II. Stage of Fever and Inflammation.— This stage—the stage of reaction—begins on the second or third day. The pain subsides, the appetite is lost, and constipation, or it may be dysenteric diarrhoja, is present. There is a general congestion of the internal viscera, which may give rise to various clinical complications. Thus albuminuria is very constantly present in cases of extensive burning, especially when the temperature is raised to 101° F. or higher. He- spiratory complications in the form of bronchitis, broncho - pneinaonia, or pleurisy are common sequelae of burns, especially of those occurring over the thorax. Laryngitis and oedema glottidis not infrequently follow scalds produced by the inhalation of steam, or from drinking very hot fluids or caustics. The intestinal complications vary from a slight catarrh with diarrhcea to severe degrees of in- flammation and ulceration of the intestinal mucous membrane. Ulceration of the duodenmu, leading to perforation, has been observed in cases of severe burning, but its frequency and clinical importance aj^pear to have l)een exagger- ated. It has been ascribed to the digestive action of the gastric juice on the devitalised mucous lining of the gut. Cerebral complications in the form of men- ingitis or cerebritis are not infrequent after burns implicating the scalp and neck, and are evidenced by cerebral irritation or delirium followed by convulsions and coma. III. Stage of Suppuration.—This stage begins when the sloughs separate, and its duration and severity largely depend upon the success which attends the eflbrts made to secure asepsis in the local condition. In severe cases with marked septic infection it may be very prolonged. The patient gradually loses strength, and evidences of septic absorption in the form of septicfemia or pytemia manifest themselves. At one time tetanus was a not infrequent sequel. Should the suppuration be profuse and long-continued, waxy degeneration of the liver, kidneys, or intestines may supervene, and death result from hectic. In this stage death has been attributable in some cases to perfoi-ation of a duodenal ulcer. Local Phenomena.—The description of the diffei'ent degrees of burns may be prefaced with the remark, that clinical cases almost invariably illustrate more than one degree of burning. The deeper varieties are always accompanied liy those of less severity, and the clinical picture is made up of the combined chai'acteristics of all. Further, it may be said that it is often ex- tremely difficult to determine the exact depth of a burn immediately after it occurs; some- times it turns out less severe than it appeared at first sight, but oftener, perhaps, more so. Burns of the First Degree.—Ili/j^eramia or Erythema. — These are usually produced by flame in contact with the skin for a very short time; by solids or li(iuids below 100° C; or they may result from prolonged exposure to the summer sun's rays. The pain is acute while it lasts, but it usually passes off in a few hours. The part is of a bright red or purple hue, which disappears temporarily under the pressure of the finger, and which gradually blends with the normal colour of the skin around. There is a transitory swelling of the burned area, with perhaps slight oozing of serum from the surface, and the super- ficial layers of the cuticle usually peel oft' later.