506 SUPPURATIOISr AND SEQUELS EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC side, is at times noted, and is due to cortical involvement. When the abscess cavity is in the upper and posterior part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, sensory aphasia is present; when towards its apex and upon the left side motor aphasia may be noted, due to pressure upon Broca's convolu- tion. Optic neuritis may or may not be present. As intracranial pressure increases, symptoms of coma ensue. If, however, rupture of the abscess takes place into the ventricle or into the arachnoid cavity, symptoms of extreme excita- tion arise, accompanied by restlessness, convul- sive seizures, and rapid elevation of temperature. Cerebellar Abscess.—About one-third of all recorded intracranial abscesses, secondary to chronic suppurative otitis media, occur within the cerebellum. Their most usual situation is towards the anterior extremity of one or other lateral lobe ; they are frequently associated with septic thrombosis of the lateral sinus, or with an extra-dural abscess in the posterior cerebral fossa. The symptoms which an abscess in the cere- bellum gives rise to are very much the same as those produced by an abscess in the cerebrum. Pain, which in temporo-sphenoidal abscesses may occur in almost any part of the head, as before described in cerebellar abscesses, is more fre- quently occipital. Other symptoms, such as pulse rate, temperature, respiration rate, etc., are governed by the same general principles as hold in temporo-sphenoidal abscesses. Giddi- ness is, however, an indication of some import- ance, and in certain cerebellar abscesses is very marked, and its character may prove of localising value. Optic neuritis is frequent, and complete blindness may be noted. Constant yawning has also been noted. Retraction of the head, intolerance of light, and rapid emaciation are important indications. In cerebellar abscess sudden death may occur from rupture into the fourth ventricle, or from pressure upon, or oedema aroimd, the respiratory centre. Thrombosis of the Lateral Sinus occurs, as a rule, from carious destruction of the bony walls around the sigmoid sinus. In most cases, as a result of perforation of the posterior bony wall of the mastoid antrum, an extra-dural abscess forms, followed by a phlebitis of its walls. This phlebitis produces a certain degree of venous stasis, which in turn is followed by the forma- tion of a thrombus. The thrombus, lying as it does in intimate relation with a septic focus, rapidly becomes septic and disintegrates, minute particles becoming detached and carried by the blood stream to distant organs, e.g. the lungs, the pleurae, the kidneys, or the larger joints, there to set up embolic abscesses; or a general septic intoxication may be induced, followed by septicfemia or pyo-septica3mia. In a certain number of cases thrombosis may result without any bone lesion existing, the pathogenic infection being conveyed directly from the septic focus within the middle ear or mastoid cells to the lateral sinus, by way of small emissary veins connecting the mucosa of the one with the fibrous sheaths of the other. A thrombus which has once formed may, under certain circumstances, become organised, its organisation being followed by the formation of a mass of fibrous tissue with obliteration of the sinus. Symptoms. — The symptoms which septic thrombosis of the sigmoid sinus produces are mainly those incident to the septic intoxication which results, with, in addition, symptoms referable to the particiilar organs in which metastatic deposits may have taken place. Rigors are consequently early and important indications; these rigors may occur frequently during the day, the temperature varying from 103° or 104° to normal or suljuormal within a few hours. The pulse rate shows corresponding variations. Pain over the mastoid region in the neighbourhood of the sinus is frequently com- plained of, and is usually increased by pressure and percussion. (Edema of the soft tissues over the mastoid may also occur, and is due to block- ing of the emissary mastoid vein. As the phlebitic process advances, pain is complained of along the course of the internal jugular vein, which may become so thick and infiltrated as to feel like a hard cord. The glands in the immediate neighbourhood of the vein also become swollen and tender. General symptoms, such as vomiting, diarrho:a, profuse perspiration, and exhaustion, are usually present. When emboli become detached and arrested within the substance of the lungs septic pneu- monia results, frequently followed by pulmonary abscess, and even by gangrene of the part. If the pleura becomes affected diffuse septic pleurisy may ensue. The thrombotic process may also spread to other intracranial sinuses, e.g. the cavernous, the longitudinal, the petrosal, etc. In excep- tional cases a general thrombosis of all the venous sinuses within the cranium may result. As the result of septic absorption, a condition of pyo-septicEemia may be set up, characterised by severe febrile symptoms, frequent rigors, and marked prostration, and by the development of septic abscesses, especially in and around the larger joints. Treatment of the Various Intracranial Com- plications OF Chronic Suppurative Middle Ear Disease. (E'or the method of preparing the patient for operation, and for other details of opera- tion, see vol. i. p. 50-5). Extra-Dural Abscess. — In the treatment of extra-dural abscesses surgical interference should