DIABETES MELLITUS 322 term cannot be applied, however, to all cases in which sugar is detected in the urine. The cases of temporary glycosuria are to be excluded ; so also are cases in Avhicli the sugar excreted is not grape-sugar, as, for example, lactosuria and pentosuria. The name diabetes mellitus is applied by many writers to all forms of ^''^''Wiawe'i^ glycosuria. Others use the term chronic gly- cosuria for the milder forms of the disease, in which grape-sugar is present in the urine, but other symptoms slight or absent, and reserve the term diabetes mellitus for the more severe forms. Physiological Considerations.—The carbo- hydrates derived from the products of digestion are conveyed by the portal vein to the liver. This organ contains a carbohydrate, glycogen, which is greatest in quantity when a carbo- hydrate diet is given. What the exact function of the liver may be, whether it is constantly paying out a small quantity of sugar into the general circulation, or whether the function of the liver and the intestinal villi is to prevent sugar passing into the general circulation, is a disputed point which will be discussed in the article on the liver functions. Pavy thinks that if sugar were continually being passed into the general circulation, the Tirine would always contain sugar in quantity. He believes that any excess of sugar in the blood is always eliminated in the urine. It has been shown, however, that the sugar in the blood disappears when the liver is excised (Minkowski), or when the vessels of the liver are ligatured (Bock and Hoffmann, Seegen). Intravenous injection of large quantities of sugar have not been followed by glycosuria (Biedl and Kraus). Also subcutaneous injections of certain kinds of sugar—dextrose, Itevulose, and galactose—were not followed by glycosuria; but after the subcutaneous injection of cane and milk sugar, the whole of these substances was found again in the urine (Voit). Experimental Diabetes and Glycosuria.— In this article it is only possible to very briefly mention some of the more important results of experiments on animals. C. Bernard produced dial)etes hy puncturing the floor of the fourth ventricle. It appears probable that changes are thereby produced in hepatic cells, and that the impulses which cause them pass along the splanchnic nerves. By other experimental lesions of the nervous sj^stem diabetes may be produced, as, for example, by division of the medulla (Pavy), injury of the vermi- form process of the cerebellum (Eckhard), injury of various parts of the pons and posterior columns of the spinal cord (Sciiiff), centrifugal vagus irritation (Arthaud and Butte). Pavy produced diabetes by injection of defibrinated arterial (oxygenated) blood into the portal vein. Diabetes can also be produced both in man and animals by the administration of jihloridzin (v. Mering). Alimentary, puerperal, and symptomatic gly- cosuria, as well as glycosuria produced by phloridzin and chemical substances, will be con- sidered in the article on glycosuria. Pancreatic Diabetes.—It was not until 1889 that it was found by Minkowski and v. Mering in Germany, and by De Dominicis in Italy, that total extirpation of the pancreas in dogs is followed by diabetes. Partial extirpation, i.e. when one-quarter or one-fifth of the gland is left behind, does not produce diabetes. Even when the pancreatic duct is ligatured and the remain- ing piece of the pancreas has no connection with the duodenum, still diabetes does not follow. Minkowski has shown the relation of the pancreas to diabetes by the most striking experiment of transplanting a piece of the gland and grafting it under the skin of the abdominal wall (external to the abdominal cavity). If the transplanted portion of pancreas (or graft) does not necrose, then diabetes will not occur when the whole of the remaining intra-abdominal part of the gland is removed. But if the transplanted portion of pancreas be subsequently removed, then diabetes occurs. It is probable that something is formed in the pancreas which passes into the circulation and brings about sugar destruction, or prevents the accumulation of sugar in the blood. Lepine and others believe that this " something " is an internal secretion of the pancreas, which is abs jrbed by the pancreatic lymphatics and veins. [It is well known that sugar is broken up in the muscles, presumably by ferment-action, yet no glycolytic ferment can be obtained from them. Cohnheim, however, lias shown that if to muscle juice the fluid expressed from the pancreas be added, the mixture has a marked glycolytic power which neither of its components possesses separately. It thus appears as though the internal seci'etion of the pancreas influences tlie metabolism of sugar indirectly, through action on the muscles.] Etiology and Etiological Kelations.—The disease is more common in males than females ; the liability of the two sexes is about equal in the early period of life, but after the age of 30, males are more frequently affected than females. The disease is more common in adults. In private practice it is most frequently met with between the ages of 50 and 60, but in hospital practice there is a larger proportion of young diabetic patients. The following table gives the age and sex of 100 cases of diabetes in Manchester (mostly hospital patients):— Age in Years. 10-20 20-30 30-40 40-50 50-60 60-70 Total. Males 6 12 14 18 9 3 62 Females 6 13 8 3 3 38 12 25 22 21 12 S 100