56 CARDIOMETER Cardiometer.—An apparatus {e.;/. Roy's) used to measure the output of the heart in experimental work. See Physiology, Circulation {Physiology of the Heart). Card i opt OS is. — Displacement of the heart in a downward direction, occurring in association with enteroptosis or from accommo- dation. A voluntary form has been reported in which a man had such command over his dia- phragm that he could dislocate his heart, stomacli, and kidneys at will (Abra7ns). CardiorrhexiS.—Rupture of the heart. CardO. — The axis vertebra, literally a hinge. " Carferal."—A water-filter consisting of iron, charcoal, and clay. Caries.—Ulceration, generally applied only to that process as it affects a bone. See Chil- dren, Clinical Examination of {Neck, Stiffness); Joints, Diseases of {Definition of Terms); Joints, Diseases of {Tuberculous Disease); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation {Causes); Spine, Surgical Affections {Spinal Caries); Teeth {Dental Cai'ies). Caries Sicca.—A chronic form of tuber- culous arthritis, occuri'ing chiefly in the shoulder and hip joints of adults. See Joints, Diseases of {Tubercular Diseases, Types). Carinated.—Keeled or furnished with a central groove or ridge; the abdomen may be carinated in tuberculous meningitis in children. -S'ee Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic. Carlsbad. See Mineral Waters {Ther- mal, Alkaline). Carminatives. — Medicines, such as aromatic or bitter substances, stomachics gener- ally, ethers, camphors, and volatile oils, which increase the gastric and intestinal muscular action, and so tend to expel flatus. One of their uses is to prevent the griping caused by purgatives; and they are usefully combined with antacids in cases of acidity {e.g. with bicarbonate of soda, etc.). The Carminative Tincture of the British Pharmacopoeia Conference contains cardamoms, strong tincture of ginger, oil of cinnamon, oil of caraway, oil of cloves, and rectified spirit; its dose is 2 to 10 m. Carniferrin.—A preparation containing meat and iron. See Chlorosis {Treatment). Carniferroi.—A preparation containing peptonised meat and iron. Carnification.—The transformation of a tissue or organ into a substance of flesh-like consistence and appearance, e.g. the lungs in atelectasis and inflammation. Carnin.—One of the so-called purin bases ; an end product of the breaking up of the nucleins of muscle ; its formula is CyHgN^Og. Carnivora. See Anthrax. Carnochan's Operation.— The antral method of reaching and removing Meckel's ganglion in trigeminal neuralgia. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Trigeminal, Surgical Treatment). Carotid Artery. See Aneurysm {Neck); Nerves, Neuralgia {Trigeminal, Ligature of Carotid); CEsophagus {Foreign Bodies, Ulcera- tion into Carotids); Orbit, Diseases {Pulsating Exophthalmos). Carotin. See Carrotin. Carpal Bones. See Wrist-Joint, In- juries {Fracture). CarpholOgry.—Seeking or picking move- ments of the hands noticed in delirious patients; " picking the bedclothes." It is derived from Kttpc^os, chaff, and A.eyw, I collect; and it is a serious symptom in the delirium of typhoid fever. Carpo-pedal Spasm. See Tetany (Causation, Pickets). Carpus. See Wrist-Joint, Injuries; Wrist-Joint, Diseases. Carragheen.—Irish moss, the thallus of Chondrus crisjms. See Invalid Feeding {Car- rageen Jelly). Carratraca. See Balneology {Spain and, Portugal). Carreau.—The name given by French writers to cases of tabes mesenterica in which there is hardness and enlargement of the abdo- men ; the name signifies a tile or brick floor. {See Mesenteric Glands.) Carrion's Disease. See Verruga Peruana {History). Carron Oil.—Equal parts of lime water and linseed oil. See Burns and Scalds {Treat- ment) ; Calcium ; etc. Carrotin.—A colouring matter obtained from dried and powdered carrots ; it is said to be used to give a colour to butter; its formula is regarded as C18H24O. See Pigments of the Body and Excreta (Lipochromes). Carrots. See Physiology, Food and Digestion (Vegetable Food-Stuff's). Cartilag'e. See Physiology {Tissues) ; Joints, Diseases {Ulceration of Cartilage);