DEFORMITIES 285 on opening them he finds that one remains shut, and it can only be extended by tlie other liand, | and flies open like a knife-bhule with a snap. [ Sometimes there is difficulty also in flexing the finger, which is accompanied by a small jerk. The aflection is usually seen in the thumb, and is due to one of two causes, either a thickening of the tendon as it passes through its osseo- fibrous groove, or else narrowing of the groove. Treatment. — If the thickening can be felt it should be cut down upon, and the thickened portion removed. In many cases, however, it is sufficient to blister frequently and the thicken- ing disappears, or the finger may be fixed in a metal splint with pressure over the spot where the movement of the tendon is hindered. Mallet Finger.—This is also known as "drop finger," and is due to subcutaneous rupture of the extensor tendon where it is inserted into the last phalanx. Its usual cause is a fall for- wards on the fully extended fingers, with the result that the fibres of the extensor tendon are torn away and the finger cannot then be fully extended. AVith regard to treatment, the finger may be placed in a malleable iron splint, with the last phalanx hyper-extended ; or an incision should be made over the dorsum of the last phalanx, and the tendon reunited to the bone. Hali;Ux Valgus (Bumox) It is largely due to the use of improper boots, not necessarily of tight ones, but of those which are pointed and often too short. In some cases it is due to osteo-arthritis and gout. The de- formity is a displacement of the great toe outward, with prominence of the base of the pi'oximal phalanx and of the head of the first metatarsal bone, mostly of the latter. Both these portions of bone are often enlarged and covered by a bunion or bursa. The bony swell- ing is especially noticeable in cases of osteo- arthritis. The anatomy of the affection is a partial subluxation of the first phalanx out- wards from the head of the first metatarsal bone, leaving it exposed to pi'essure. The liga- ments on the inner side of the joint are stretched, and occasionally perforated ; those on the outer side are shortened. Of the tendons the extensor proprius pollicis is displaced outwards. The formation of the false bursa or bunion is second- ary to the enlargement of the bone. The bunion is very liable to inflannnation, and suppin-ation may cause cellulitis with occasional disorganisa- tion of the joint. Sometimes the bunion has a corn on it. The symptoms arc sufficiently plain, but the aflPection varies in degree, and there is no doubt that women suffer more frequently than men. Treatment. — Prophylactic. Pointed boots must be absolutely forbidden, and the inner edges of the boot should be quite straight. In slight cases curative treatment consists in wear- ing proper boots, with the application of cold and soothing lotions to the inflamed and thick- I ened skin, and the wearing of the digitated or [ divided socks. Some advise the use of a post ^ l>etween the first and second toes in the boot, but this does not answer well in practice. In other cases a bunion spring is used, but if the deformity is at all severe and the bursa large and painful, the only course is operation. It is not sufficient merely to chisel awaj' the promi- nent portion of bone, but the operation par excellence for these cases is excision of the head of the metatarsal bone. With this operation the writer has ample reason to be satisfied. Hallux Varus or Figeim-Toe is the reverse of hallux valgus, but is not associated with pain in the same way. If it is excessive the treat- ment consists in manipulation and the use of a light splint to press the toe outwards. JIallux Rigidm is a somewhat curious affec- tion. The great toe cannot be extended l)eyond the straight line, and any attempt to do so pro- duces severe pain. The tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis is always tense. With regard to the pathology of this affection opinions diiTer, but the writer has been able to ascertain that it is frequently associated with osteo-arthritis and with inflammation of the synovial fringe be- tween tlie sesamoid bones. The mechanism of the affection is easy to understand. When an attempt is made to extend the toe, the head of the metatarsal bone and the base of the first phalanx press upon this inflamed spot so that the rigidity of the toe is really reflex. Local measures avail but little, and in cases which are at all marked it is always best to excise the head of the first metatarsal bone, and to remove a small portion of the prominent part of the base of the first phalanx. Hammer Toe Definition.—A deformity usually affecting the second toe, and consisting of dorsi-flexion of the first phalanx, plantar-flexion of the second, and extension of the third. Etiology.—In some cases it is congenital, and is associated with congenital contraction of the little finger. In other cases it is distinctly hereditary. But it is sometimes due to acquired causes. The chief of these is the use of short boots. The appearances presented are as follows. On the dorsal aspect of the first interphalangeal joint a painful com is frequently present; be- neath this is a bursa which from time to time inflames and suppurates. On the under surface the skin is contracted, and at the bottom of the groove the long flexor tendon can be felt. The first phalanx is in a state of extreme dorsi-flexion, so that the head of the metatarsal bone is un- covered below to about half its extent. The anatomy of the part is as follows. In the first place there occurs contraction of the extensor tendon. This is followed by contraction of the flexor tendon, and with gradual shortening of