DISINFECTION 406 during convalescence of a case. Too exclusive attention has been attached to "desquama- tion " as the principal cause, to the neglect of the mucous membrane involved in the early and latest stages of the disease. The " breath " of patients suffering from infectious diseases is hj some considered to be a means of infection, but the evidence for this is not conclusive. These points are of great practical importance in connection with the science and practice of disinfection. Streptococci are present in large numbers in the virine of scarlatinal patients, but attempts to obtain cultivations from the cast-off epi- thelium have been so unsuccessful as to cast doubts on the universal belief in their infectivity, but Dr. Class of Chicago states that he has grown from the mucus of the throat and the epithelium alike a diplococcus perfectly charac- teristic, and doubtlessly specific. He explains previous failures hy the fact that the only media in which it will grow are glycerine agar u'ltk 5 pe7' cent of sterilised garden soil, and milk. (C) Periods of Incubation and Infectiveness.— A knowledge of the incubation or period that elapses between the reception of the infection and the first manifestation of the symptoms of the disease, and of that during which the con- valescent retains the power of communicating the infection to others, is necessary to the successful practice of disinfection and prophy- laxis, especially in schools. Incubation.—The statement of these periods in our text-books is far from satisfactory, for they are, I believe, more constant than is generally supposed. An error on the side of excessive caution is certainly safe, but if we admit such wide ranges as two to fifteen days, or one to three weeks, we deprive ourselves of the means of tracing any case to its source. Deferred Infection.—Many alleged instances of extraordinarily prolonged infection are really cases of recent exposvire to infected articles, but it is also highly probable that one may carry the contagion for some days or a week on one's clothes or person, resisting infection for that time. For this Dr. Reincke has suggested the term "deferred infection," and such apparent prolongation of the incubation period is perhaps not infrequent. Incubation periods should be reckoned from the moment of infection to that of the invasion or commencement of the febrile disturbance, not to the appearance of the eruption, which is a later stage in the course of some diseases, not having anything corresponding to it in others. The incubation is properly the period during which there is no sensible evidence of disease. Among the difficulties and sources of error in determining the duration of incubation are (1) the uncertainty attaching to the date of exposure alike when (a) no other cases are known to exist in the neighbourhood; and (b) when, as during epidemics, opportunities of infection are everywhere present; (2) the possi- bility of deferred infection; or (3) of later infection by fomites; (4) the insidious course of some diseases, as enteric fever and diphtheria in their earlier stages; and (5) the fact that cases infected successively from the same source may be mistaken for primary and secondary cases with a very short interval between them. Perhaps the following statement of the true periods may be taken as the nearest approach to accuracy:— Short Incubations. Erysipelas Septicaemia Influenza Diphtheria Scarlatina 1-2 days 1-2 „ 1-3 „ 1- 4 „ 2- 5 „ Long Incubations. Measles . Smallpox 10-12 days 10-15 „ Variable Periods. Cholera . . . . 1-4 days Whooping-cough . 7-10 or 12 ,, Typhus. . . 7-14 or 16 „ Enteric fever. . . 12-20 „ Mumps . . . 14-21 or 24 „ Varicella and rubella are occasionally some- what shorter than smallpox and measles re- spectively. The eruption follows the invasion after one to two days in scarlatina, two to three in smallpox and typhus, and three to five in measles. In a recent epidemic of rubella at Konigsberg, Dr. Theodor and other medical men met a number of cases of the recurrence of the disease in the same individual after intervals of two to six weeks. Quarantine.—A scholar who has been exposed to infection during the holidays should not be admitted, or, if in school, should be isolated for a period somewhat longer than the maximum incubation period, being meanwhile deemed a "suspect," and not allowed to associate with any susceptible individuals. This should be, in— Scarlatina Diphtheria Measles . Smallpox Whooping-cough Mumps 8 days 12 „ 16 „ 18 „ 21 „ 24 „ Varicella and rubella as smallpox and measles. Isolation.—Duration of Infectivity.—One who has suffered from an infectious disease should, after the most thorovigh disinfection of his person and clothes, be isolated from association with susceptible persons for the following periods.