306 DERMATITIS HERPETIFORMIS the fourth month of pregnancy, but after that date manifests itself with gradually increasing frequency up till parturition. Fresh relapses often occur after delivery and throughout the puerperal period. In some cases seen by the writer the disease first appeared two or three days after delivery. A woman who has once had an attack of hydroa as the result of preg- nancy almost always has fresh attacks, and iisually of increasing intensity and of earlier occurrence, with each succeeding pregnancy. Subsequently relapses usually occur indepen- dently of pregnancy, and the case becomes identical in every way with ordinary dermatitis herpetiformis. The writer has observed one case of hydroa gestationis recurring in seven successive pregnancies; the bullous affection then became practically continuous and uni- versal ; the conjunctivfe were involved, then the mouth and oesophagus were attacked, and finally the patient died after twelve years' illness from the perforation of ulcers in the ileum, pre- sumably of the same nature as the skin lesions. The involvement of mucous membi-ane in dermatitis herpetiformis is, however, of very exceptional occurrence, in marked contrast with what obtains in the bullous erythemata. Etiology.—That the disease is a neurosis is indicated by the severity of the disordered sensations preceding and accompanying it, by its peculiar paroxysmal course, and by the co- existence of other well-marked nervous symptoms in many of the cases. It manifests itself fre- quently after some mental shock or emotion, worry, or nervous breakdown, but a considerable proportion of cases have been recorded in young adults otherwise in good health. Its occurrence as the result of pregnancy suggests its " reflex " origin, but beyond this our knowledge of the etiology of hydroa is as purely hypothetical as that of pemphigus and other bullous diseases. No relationship with gout or renal disease has been established. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology. — In sections from a case of Jamieson's of the ery- themato-vesicular type there was evidence of the origin of the vesicles in the upper papillary layer, although fully formed vesicles of a locu- lated character were also met with in the epi- dermis in close relationship to the hair follicles. Elliot found some association between the sweat ducts and vesicle formation, and located the commencement of the process in the rete and interpapillary spaces. Gilchrist, however, be- lieves that the upper layer of the corium is the starting-point, and has found no alteration in the cells bordering on the sweat ducts. Both observers found small cell infiltration in the corium, which in Gilchrist's case was found to consist largely of eosinophile cells, and these had also penetrated to a certain extent into the epidermis. Leredde and Perrin, who first demonstrated the abundance of eosinophile cells in the serum of the bulla) and in the blood in dermatitis herpetiformis, consider it as diagnostic and as differentiating the disease from pemphigus; this has been disputed by Neusser and many other observers, who have found excess of eosino- phile cells in both the blood and serum of vesicles of eczema and pemphigus. The normal proportion of these cells is from 1 to 2 per cent of the leucocytes. In a case of Morris and Whitfield's the cosinophilia rose from 4'9 per cent of all leucocytes present in the blood at the commencement of the attack to 12 per cent when the eruption was at its height. Whitfield found from 8 to 15 per cent of eosinophiles in the blood of another case of dermatitis herpeti- formis, and double this amount in one of hydroa gestationis. In a case reported by Danlos eosinophiles were present to the amount of 25 per cent in the blood and 54 per cent in the serum of the blebs. On tlae other hand, Drysdale showed at the Pathological Society of London specimens from the blood of a case of true pemphigus containing 60 per cent of eosino- philes, and in which the serum of the blebs was extremely rich in eosinophiles; while Peter contends that eosinophilia is a more marked feature of eczema than of any of the bullous disorders which might be classified together as pemphigus. The occasional occurrence of associated re- current hfemo - porphyrinuria, as recorded by M'Call Anderson, indicates that the imderlying neurosis is probably of a paroxysmal nature. Differential Diagnosis.—Many authorities assert that it is impossible to diagnose a first attack of dei'matitis herpetiformis with positive- ness, and that a firm diagnosis can only be established after watching a certain number of recurrences. This view is not endorsed by the writer's experience, altliough the value of the history of such cases is always very great. The similarity of the lesions to those of pemphigus and erythema multiforme may easily give rise to errors in diagnosis, especially as a history of repeated recurrences is common to all three, although in different degrees. The blebs of pemphigus characteristically arise upon skin which shows no sign of erythema, and are not intermingled with the scattered papules, vesicles, and pustules so frequently present in dermatitis herpetiformis ; they are usually large and show no tendency to herpetiform grouping, while the accompanying constitutional symptoms are generally severe. Itching is a marked or even predominant feature of the disease under dis- cussion, but is seldom present in pemphigus. The therapeutic test is undoubtedly of consider- able value, as most cases of true pemphigus yield rapidly to arsenic, which has no beneficial effect in dermatitis herpetiformis. The alleged value of eosinophilia as a diagnostic point has already been referred to. Erythema multiforme is an acute disease