354 DIET A child under . . 2 requires 0'3 ,, from 3 to 5 „ 0-4 ,, 6 to 9 ,, 0-5 ,, 10 to 13 ,, 0-6 A girl ,, 14 to 16 „ O'T A boy „ 14 to 16 „ O'S (2) Height and Build.—These have a deter- mining influence on the amount of food required by affecting (a) the body weight, (b) the extent of body surface. The greater the weight of the body the greater the amount of food required for its uplveep. Thus the heavy man requires more food than the hght man. The number of Calories which requires to be supplied per kilo, of body weight are about as follows :— During rest . . 30 to 35 „ light work . 35 to 40 „ moderate work 40 to 50 The greater the extent of body surface the more rapidly heat is lost and the larger the supply of fuel required. For this reason the tall thin man who has a large surface requires more food than the short stout man who has, relatively to his weight, a much smaller surface. (3) Wor/c and Rest.—These two factors have a more potent influence on the amount of food required than any others. The necessity for a large supply of proteid and carbohydrate during the performance of severe bodily labour has already been pointed out. The number of Calories required under such conditions may rise to 4000 or even 4500 (for examples, see Table I.). On the other hand, when the body is at com- plete rest, as is the case, for example, with an invalid lying in bed, the demand for potential energy may fall to 2000 Calories or less per day. Intellectual work does not appreciably increase bodily waste, and therefore does not demand a liberal diet. Quality, and especially easy digestibility, is a much more important consideration for the brain worker than mere quantity. (4) Climate is probably of less real import- ance in determining the actual amount of food required than is commonly supposed. Fluctua- tions in external temperature should be met by diminishing heat loss through increase of the clothing rather than by increasing heat produc- tion by changes in the diet. Notwithstanding this, experience seems to show that in cold climates and in winter the fuel foods — and especially those rich in fat—should be increased, while in the reverse conditions the carbohydrates should be relatively increased, and the proteids and fats diminished. The blubber diet of the Esquimaux on the one hand, and the rice diet of the Hindu on the other, are examples in point. (5) Personal peculiarities as affecting the amount of food required are largely to be ex- plained by the influence of body weight and shape already considered. When all deductions are made, however, there is still room for the popular belief that some people can "get on" with less food than others, though both are living under the same conditions and performing the same work. Of this fact, if fact it be, there is no satisfactory explanation ; but it is at least conceivable that some organisms are more economical machines than others, and turn their supplies of potential energy to better account, just as a man who has had practice will perform a given muscular feat with much less wear and tear than a novice. Such indi- vidual peculiarities may explain the tendency to obesity in certain families, and must always be borne in mind in regulating the diet of patients. The Relative Value op Foods.—The relative value of different foods must be decided on chemical, physiological, and economic grounds. (1) The chemical value of a food is deter- mined by the results of its percentage analysis. The composition of most of the foods in common use is set out in detail in the tables in the latter part of this article. It need only be remarked here that one cannot judge of a food from its chemical composition alone. A food which con- tains but a small percentage of nutrients can never be regarded as a valuable article of diet, but, on the other hand, the possession of high chemical qualities by no means necessarily implies suitability to the needs of the bod}'. (2) In judging of the value of foods on phy- siological grounds one has to consider {a) the digestibility of the food in the stomach, (h) its absorption in tlie intestine. A good food is one which is easily digested and well absorbed into the blood. (a) The ease with which a food is digested in the stomach may be gauged by the time which elapses before it is passed on into the intestine. This time is occupied in bringing the food into a state of solution, and the more rapidly this is accomplished the greater is the digestibility of the food in question. As the results of experi- ments upon men the commoner foods may be arranged according to the length of time which they remain in the stomach, as follows :— 1 to 2 hours. 7 oz. water or plain tea, coffee, or cocoa. ,, beer or light wine. ,, boiled milk. ,, beef tea. Whites of 3 eggs. 2 to 3 hours. 5 pint water, beer, or boiled milk. A large teacupful of coffee with cream, or cocoa and milk. '2 raw or poached eggs. 3i^ oz. raw meat. 9 ,, boiled calves' brains or sweetbread. 2\ ,, raw oysters. 5 ,, boiled white fish. 7 ,, cauliflower or asparagus.