DEFORMITIES 288 and blue, and the electrical reactions are entirely lost in the affected muscles. From spastic paralysis the diagnosis of congenital equino-varus is more difficult. The presence of rigidity of the knees, adduction of the thighs, flexion of the forearm and contraction of the hand, are points sufficiently distinctive of spastic paralysis. The hysterical form of eq^iino-varus readily disappears under an anajsthetic. Treatment.—Of slight cases or cases of the FIRST DEGREE:—The fcct in this degree can be brought to a straight line with the legs by manipulation, and sometimes everted. But when the pressure is relaxed they spring back to their original position. Also they cannot be fully dorsi-flexed when they are straightened and everted. Such cases can be treated by manipu- lation alone or by manipulation combined with massage and retention apparatus. In manipu- lation the movements to be practised are abduction and eversion at the transverse tarsal and sub-astragaloid joints, and flexion and ex- tension of the whole foot of the ankle finishing up with circumduction. The movements should be easy and gradual, and should last about five to ten minutes three times a day. Manipulation can be combined with retention apparatus in the following way. A straight well-padded piece of soft ii'on is bent to the shape of the deformed foot and applied to the outer border of the limb. Gradually the angle of the splint is diminished until the foot can be fixed in a straight line with the leg without pain. This suffices to remove the varus. The equinus can be overcome by the use of a tin shoe with a quadrant movement at the ankle. In place of the splints many surgeons prefer to use plaster of Paris frequently changed, additional rectification being obtained whenever a fresh plaster of Paris splint is put on; this should be at least every third day. Of the Second Degree.—Here the foot can neither be fully everted nor brought into a straight line with the leg. In attempting to do so the tendons of the tibialis anticus and posticus and the flexor longus pollicis, together with the tendo Achillis, become tense. Cases of this degree may be cured by (a) tenotomy with the after-use of shoes and apparatus, ov {h) tenotomy followed by wrenching on two or three occasions and putting the foot in plaster of Paris after each partial correction. As this degree is usually found in children under four years of age, the bones and ligaments are still elastic, and it is not necessary to resort to deep opera- tions such as Phelps' operation or the various kinds of tarsectomy. The following tendons need division. In the first stage, the tibialis anticus and posticus, the plantar fascia and the anterior fasciculus of the internal lateral liga- ment of the ankle. As to whether reposition of the front part of the foot should be aimed at im- mediately after tenotomy or gradually is a matter of somewhat diverse opinion. As a rule gradual reposition by means of tlie flexible iron splint is to be preferred, and the varus will be gradually overcome until the foot is in a straight line with the leg. Then and only then should the tendo Achillis be divided to reduce the equinus. After the tendo Achillis has been divided an Adam's varus splint, or a tin shoe with a quadrant at the ankle, is substituted for the flexible iron splint. As in the first degree, some surgeons prefer to use plaster of Paris instead of splints or shoes; but its disadvantages are that its use involves a good deal of trouble if it is renewed sufficiently frequently, and the foot cannot be manipulated while it is on. This is a very essential part of the proceedings. After-treat- ment, extending over some years, by means of walking apparatus, is required. In some of these cases there is very considerable inversion of the whole limb. This may sometimes be overcome by frequent twisting movements on the part of the attendant or by linear osteotomy. Of the Third Degree.—Eigid or resistant club-foot. Here all the deformities are ex- aggerated and the bony prominences are well marked on the outer side of the foot and are the sites of considerable pain. The best form of treatment for these rigid feet is, in the writer's opinion, a gradiial one. There is no course that answers so well as the following. Take the patient off his feet for two or three weeks and give him complete rest; by so doing the painful spasm of the muscles passes away and the foot soon becomes less rigid. The degree of supple- ness which returns to the foot is surprising. Tenotomy of the tibial tendons and plantar fascia is now performed, and the varus is overcome by using a malleable iron splint or by employing a Scarpa's shoe. Happily successful as treatment on these lines is, the length of time occupied has induced surgeons to devise other means of overcoming the difficulties and restoring the foot. A valuable adjunct to treatment is forcible rectification or wrenching. The best apparatus is Thomas' wrench. It is better in obstinate cases to employ it frequently and moderately than with violence. The more extensive opera- tive measures are free subcutaneous division of all the resistant structures at one sitting, Phelps' operation, tarsal osteotomy and tarsectomy. As to the value of either of these operative pro- cedures it is well to remark that Phelps' opera- tion or treatment by open incision has been for some time on its trial and has not given satisfaction. Free subcutaneous section is fol- lowed by so much scarring that the foot remains, rigid although it may be of a good shape. Tarsal osteotomy is often insufficient because it is difficult so to plan the incisions as to allow of the bones being placed in their proper axes. Of the many forms of tarsectomy it may be said that removal of the astragalus is the best. Now, in commencing the treatment of a case, either in this degree or the next, it is important