DEFORMITIES 289 to decide at once if the foot is capable of re- position by the gradual method, or requires tarsectoniy. If the latter measure is called for, the writer has no hesitation in pronouncing astragalectomy to be the operation which is likely to yield excellent results on the following grounds—the resulting good movement of the ankle, the immediate and permanent correction of the deformity, the absence of recurrence, and the ease of the operation. As to wedge-shaped tarsectomies, the operation is easy, and it is very tempting, if a foot is too short on the inner side and too long on the outer, to saw out a piece of bone and put the foot straight. But this does not appear to be a very scientific proceeding. The cause of the trouble is in the inner segment «>f the longitudinal arch, and there the deformity should l)e rectified. Of the Fourth Degree.—Here the distortion is exaggerated to its utmost limit and the foot is fixed, feeling as if it were set in plaster of l*aris. The decision has to be made as to between astra- galectomy with free division of the resisting soft structures and amputation. The latter is very rarely called for, and many patients go on hobbling about with ulcerated feet. Treatment of relapffed cases are best conducted <m the lines advocated for the second and third degrees as above. Congenital talipes calcaneus is seldom very resistant to treatment, and the same may be «aid of calcaneo-valgus. It is necessaiy to divide the contracted tendons and use the iualleable iron splint for reposition, suitable ^manipulations V)eing carried out twice daily. Club-Foot—Acquired Cluh-foot acquired—Causes.—The most usual cause is infantile paralysis, and less frequently spastic pai'alysis. Rarer causes are cicatrices such as result from bvu'ns; traumatism, such as injuries to bones and fractures, severance of tendons and nerves; inflammation, such as occurs in acute osteomyelitis when the rate of growth of one bone is arrested, while in the other it is normal; "talipes deculntus," a spuri- ous form of talipes due to contraction of the tendo Achillis, and occurring in bed - ridden patients; and lastly hysterical talipes. Talipes Equinus.—The most common cause is spastic paralysis, less frequently infantile para- lysis. The degrees of talipes equinus are as follows:— The First DEnnEE or right-angled contraction of the tendo Achillis.—When the knee is fully extended the heel cannot be brought into com- plete apposition with the ground without pain or force. The results of this slight deformity are formation of corns beneath the heads of the metatarsal bones, slight lameness and shortening of the stride, and some inversion or evei'sion of the foot at the ankle. Many cases of so-called rtalipes varus or valgus are found to be equinus VOL. II when carefully examined with the knee fully extended. The Second Degree.—The lieel is raised well oft' the ground and progression takes jjlace on the head of the metatars;d bones, beneath which corns are found. The plantar fascia is frequently contracted in this degree. The Third Degree is an exaggerated condi- tion of the second, and the foot is bent completely backwards. The morbid changes in the bones are such as would be expected from the more or less vertical position assumed by the foot. The plantar fascia and ligaments and posterior liga- ment of the ankle are contracted. So too are the tendo Achillis, the long flexors, and the peroneus longus. In paralytic feet the extensors arc fatty and degenerated. The diagnosis is simple when the affection is well marked and of the second and third degrees, but in the first degree or right-angled contrac- tion of the tendo Achillis the affection is often overlooked. Talipes arcuatus and plantaris (pes cavus) are often due to paralysis of the interossei with some weakness of the long ex- tensor tendons. Treatment op Talipes Equinus.—In case of the first degree or right - angled conti'action, manipulation and active and passive exercises designed to stretch the tendo Achillis may be employed. A toe-elevating spring attached to an outside vertical steel supjjort is useful. But much time and trouble may fretpicntly be saved by dividing the tendo Achillis, taking care, how- ever, that the tendon does not l)ecome too long. The dorsi - flexion should be controlled by a "stop" at the ankle. In equinus of the second degree, section of the plantar fascia is called for, and when the sole of the foot is unfolded the tendo Achillis is divided. If the toes should be clawed, the extensor tendons may be divided opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones, at the same time that the plantar fascia is divided. Immediate after-treatment consists in the use of Scarpa's shoe or plaster of l^aris ; and to j^revent the tendo Achillis becoming too long the ankle should be controlled by a "stop." (Jreat atten- tion must be paid to massage and the application of the induced current in paralytic cases. In the third degree the front part of the foot should be unfolded and the tendo Achillis divided sub- sequently. The wrench may be freely employed if the deformity is obstinate. Should it fail, astragalectomy is called for. In spastic cases the contracted tendo Achillis shoidd always be divided, despite the advice sometimes given to the contrary. By doing so, much lameness is avoided and the patient walks in comfort. Ac(/uir(t:l talipes calcatieiis is the result either of infantile paralysis or is due to excessive lengthening of the tendo Achillis after an operation for talipes equinus. It is a very troublesome deformity to treat. Its aspect is entirely different from that of the congenital 19