26 BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS The importance of warm clothing, fresh air, and protection from cold and damp as prophy- lactic measures is obvious, and only requires mention. Insanity of Cyanosis A brain supplied with only partially aerated blood, like other organs of the body under similar conditions, is incapable of perfect func- tional activity, and the greater the coexistent defects in the brain structure the more pro- nounced is the functional aberration. Thus it is easy to understand that it is especially in persons of advanced years that mental obscurity, confusion and delirium, and various intellectual and emotional phenomena are apt to arise from prolonged or acute cyanosis in bronchitis and other pulmonary affections, and in various forms of cardiac disease. Clouston states that "the insanity of cyanosis from bronchitis, cardiac disease, and asthma is a form of delirium with confusion, hallucinations of sight, sleeplessness, sometimes suicidal impulses and vague fears. These symptoms are usually worse at night, and often end in mental torpor, passing into coma, and in some degree the mental power is usually affected in most old persons with diseases that prevent the blood being properly oxygenated." But there are minor degrees of mental dis- turbances also due to cyanosis which do not amount to actual insanity, evidenced by change of manner, emotivity, suspicion. Maudsley, in discussing mental changes due to impurities in the blood, distinguishes three changes — firstly, a general disturbance of physical tone; secondly, the engendering of chronic delusions; and, thirdly, in the more acute forms, active delirium. In the aged the cyanosis and dys- pnoea of capillary bronchitis cause muttering delirium or delusions, but in young, strong adults acute maniacal excitement is sometimes observed. From the insanity of cyanosis we must dis- tinguish those curious cases in which "alter- nation " between insanity and, for instance, bronchitis or asthma takes place. " There are certain cases of chronic bronchitis so called which, by their periodicity and by their chron- icity, appear to have a distinct relationship to nervous disorder; and, in confirmation of this, we would say that just as certain cases of asthma alternate with other neuroses, so these cases of chronic bronchitis alternate with the neuroses. Asthma may be distinctly found to alternate with insanity; as a rule the insanity with which it alternates is of the melancholic type " (Hack Tuke). The same alternation is sometimes observed in chronic bronchitis of the type just mentioned, and Tuke refers to one such case in whom there had been two attacks of melan- cholia, and each of these was associated with freedom from the recurrent bronchitis. Bronchiectasis Etiology and General Causation . 26 Inducing Cause ..... 27 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . . 27 Character of Secretion and Bronchial Contents ...... 27 Clinical Phenomena .... 27 Physical Signs ..... 28 Diagnosis ...... 29 Prognosis ...... 29 Treatment ...... 29 See also Breath ; Cough ; Expectoration ; HyEMOPTYSis; LuNGS, Gangrene of ; Lungs, Syphilis of ; Osteo - Arthropathies {Pul- monary); Pleura, Diseases of {^Empyema). Definition. — Bronchiectasis or dilatation of the bronchial tubes is secondary to, or occurs as an incident in, a variety of pulmonary dis- eases. In some cases the condition is masked by the primary disease and unrecognised during life. This is especially the case in the acute forms when the smaller bronchioles are dilated (bronchiolectasis), and in the chronic form of the disease where there is general and fusiform dilatation of many tubes. In the more typical cases the disease is easily recognised by certain prominent and character- istic features which entirely obscure the primary disease. Etiology and General Causation. — In the histories of patients who are the subjects of bronchiectasis we find the following diseases :— 1. Acute or chronic inflammatory diseases of bronchi, lungs, or pleura. (a) Acute and chronic Ijronchitis with or without emphysema. {b) Broncho - pneumonia, acute and chronic pleuro-pneumonia. (c) Chronic pleurisy and empyema. 2. Obstruction, compression or stenosis of bronchial tubes. (a) Obstruction by foreign bodies in the bronchi. (Jj) Compression by aneurysm, hydatid, malignant, glandular, or congenital tumours {e.g. dermoid cysts). (c) Stenosis as a result of syphilitic or other ulceration, with consequent stricture. 3. Chronic lung diseases (tubercle, cancer, etc.) producing secondary bronchiectases, partly by inflammatory process, partly by compression. In some cases, however, no previous history of disease can be traced, and it has been sug- gested that some congenital weakness of the bronchial wall or deficient elasticity of lung has existed. Much discussion has taken place upon the mechanical cause of dilatation of bronchi, and without entering fully into the many theories propounded, it may be taken for certain that two general conditions are usually present:—