SUPPURATION AND SEQUELS EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC 498 surface. Pathogenic organisms are thus readily conveyed from deep-seated foci of sepsis to the periosteum covering the mastoid process. In this connection it is important to bear in mind tlie large size of the mastoid emissary vein in children. Cases occasionally occur in which an abscess ovitside the skull and over the exit of this vein directly results from extension fi'om the interior. Such cases may present difficulties in diagnosis, and their true nature may only be revealed on operation. Symptoms.—The initial symptom, as a rule, complained of is pain, at first local, and situated just behind the attachment of the auricle, but soon becoming general over the corresponding side of the head. ■ It is always increased by pressure. Redness, swelling, and oedema of the superimposed tissues soon follow, with the result that the ear gets displaced downwards, forwards, and outwards, and, in cases where the oedema is very marked, appears to stand out prominently from the side of the head. This drooping of the auricle is specially noticeable when the patient is examined from behind. At times the oedema becomes so extensive as to extend forwards over the face, producing chemosis of the lower eyelid, or spreads upwards over the surface of the scalp. Commensurate with the amount of suppura- tion under the periosteum is the degree of pain and general discomfort of the patient, who exhibits a marked rise of temperature, a rapid pulse, and the ordinary symptoms of febrile reaction. Such attacks of periostitis may abort without pus formation, but usually an abscess of varying size forms under the periosteum, and as it in- creases strips it from the bone over considerable areas. The denseness of the superficial tissues retards spontaneous evacuation, which, howevei', may take place either behind the ear or through the postero-superior wall of the external auditory meatus. In the early stages of the affection a brisk purgative should be given, the patient being- kept within doors and in a warm room. Cold applications, such as iced - cloths, horseshoe- shaped ice caps, or Leiter's continuous cold coil, may be applied behind the ear with advantage. The local abstraction of blood by means of leeches, or Heurteloup's artificial leech, by diminishing congestion, may bring about reso- lution. Irritating applications such as aconite, iodine, etc., should be avoided as only tending to mask symptoms. Where pus has formed, and even where it has not, but where the tissues are tense and infiltrated, great relief is afforded by incision. The requisite incision, Wilde's incision, should be made parallel to and \ inch behind the attachment of the auricle, and from above downwards for a distance of from | inch to 1 inch. It should be made down to the bone throughout its entire length. It may be neces- sary to ligate the posterior auricular artery-, from which hsemorrhage is usually free, but a fair amount of depletion is to be encoviraged as tending to diminish local congestion. Where pointing takes place towards the external audi- tory meatus its postero-superior wall should be freely incised. The lips of the incision thus made should be kept apart for a few days by means of an antiseptic dressing, after which they may be brought together, provided no other symptoms contra-indicate clcsure. In cases where mastoid periostitis is secondary to acute inflammation within the mastoid cells, and where symptoms do not subside within forty-eight hours, an opening into the bone should be made. Again, when mastoid peri- ostitis is complicated with a fistula leading to carious bone within the process, suitable treat- ment must be followed out, e.g. enlarging the fistula and scraping away all available disease, or the performance of a radical mastoid opera- tion. The effect uj^on the inflammatory process within the middle ear after freely incising the infiltrated tissues over the mastoid process is remarkable. Suppuration, which had previously been abimdant, rapidly subsides, with, as a rule, early cicatrisation of the existing perforation. Suppurative Endomastoiditis. — Pathogenic infection of the mucosa lining the mastoid cells exists probably to a greater or less degree in all cases of acute suppurative inflammation of the middle ear. It is only, however, when retention of the inflammatory products Avithin the mastoid antrum or mastoid cells takes place that urgent symptoms arise. Considering the narrowness of the iter ad antrum, it is remarkable how seldom such retention does take place in acute cases. When, however, the lining membrane of the walls of the iter become so congested and cedematous as to produce stenosis of the passage, retention of inflammatory products is favoured. Symp- toms pointing to such retention are severe pain over the area of the mastoid antrum or infected mastoid cells, increased upon pressure and upon percussion. At times oedema of the superim- posed soft tissues takes place, but by no means necessarily. With increasing tension within the mastoid area the temperature rises, and may range from 98° F. to 103° F. or even more. At the same time other ordinary febrile symp- toms are present, e.g. rapid pulse, furred tongue, headache, etc. Upon examination the membrane will in such cases be seen to be swollen, congested, and with its landmarks obliterated. The perforation may be seen to pulsate, and when secretion has been carefully syringed away it will soon be seen to re-collect, indicating that some reservoir exists from which a constant overflow is oozing or flowing away. In addition, the posterior-superior wall near its attachment to the membrane will be seen to be prolapsed—the dip,—an almost