DISTAL 414 Dista.1.— Distant or remote; opposed, therefore, to proximal; the distal end of a long bone is that farthest from the trunk. Distad means in the direction of or towards the distal end of a bone or a limb, etc. Distemper.—An infectious catarrhal disease affecting carnivorous animals, especially dogs, and consisting in inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose, throat, eyes, bronchi, and alimentary tract; the skin is sometimes affected ; it is most common in dogs under one year of age and is very fatal (about 50 per cent); it is a sort of "dog-measles," and one attack usually confers immunity. The word distemper may also l)e used of any disease. Distichia,SiS.—The presence of a second row of eyelashes, occurring as a congenital anomaly. See Eyelids, Affections of [Dis- tichiasis. Distoma or Distomum.—The cfe tomidcB belong to the tromatodes or flukes among the parasitic worms; there are several species including distomum hepaticum (the liver fluke), distomum lanceolatuni (the smaller liver fluke), distoma hcpniatobium (bilharzia hsemato- bia), etc. See Liver [Liver Parasites); Lungs, Parasitic Affections of {Distomum Ringeri); Parasites {Helminths, Trematodes). DistomuS.—The teratological state in which there is a double mouth or double lower jaw (Ballantyne's Antenatal Pathology, vol. ii. pp. 389, 447). Dita Bark.—The dried bark of Alstonia scholaris, containing an alkaloid ditaine (C^^Hg^N^O) having a paralysing effect on motor nerve endings (in mammals); it is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Pharmacopoeia of 1898. See Alstonia. Dittrich'S Plugs.—Yellowish plugs of sputum, varying in size from a millet seed to a bean, formed in the bronchi in cases of gangrene of the lung and bronchiectasis. See Bronchi, Bronchitis {Clinical Varieties, Foetid Bronch- itis) ; Expectoration {Form). DiureideS. — Bodies consisting of two unmodified or modified urea molecules, linked together by an acid nucleus, e.g. the purin bodies; in birds and reptiles they are the sub- stances in which nitrogen is principally elimi- nated ; the most important of them is uric acid, and others are xanthin, hypoxanthin, and allan- toin. See Liver, Physiology of {Regulation of Supply of Proteids); Physiology, Excretion {Nitrogenous Substances, Diureides). Diuresis.—Increased or abundant excre- tion of urine, occurring as a sign of disease, as the result of taking some medicines, or because of altered physiological conditions; polyuria. See Diuretics. Diuretics. See cdso Alcohol; Buchu; Calomel ; Caffeine ; Digitalis ; Diuretin ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Treat- ment, Strophanthus and other Cardiac Remedies); Juniper; Potash; Squill; etc., etc. — A diuretic is usually defined as an agent which increases the elimination of urine. Such a definition is a convenient clinical one, but we must bear in mind that in certain diseases, e.g. granular contracted kidney, the failure in excretion is one in the elimination of solids, and not in the discharge of water, and in such cases there are important indications in con- nection with the daily intake of nitrogenous ingi-edients. The difliculties that invest this subject either from the pharmacological or clinical point of view are considerable. They depend largely on the fact that very considerable variations in the total excretion of urine occur not only in health, but also in many diseases,—variations which are apparently quite independent of the dietetic or other treatment in operation. Thus in health we find variations occurring quite independent of the amount of fluid in- gested, and also independent of the amount lost by the various other channels, these varia- tions depending on the varying activity of the renal structures. The mechanism of renal secretion will be fully discussed in the article " Kidney "; here it will suffice to give a general outline of the factors which are concerned in diuresis, at the same time indicating the different points that call for consideration in seeking to estimate the potency of an agent with supposed diuretic influence. As a proof of the very marked variations in the amount excreted from day to day, quite independently of the employment of any agent of supposed diuretic influence, the following figures may be quoted :— Case I. June 8, 1200 c.c. urine. „ 9, 1352 „ 10, 1700 „ 11, 1305 „ 12, 990 „ 13, 1645 Case II. Oct. 29, 1865 c.c. urine. „ 30, 1950 „ 31,2375 Nov. 4, 2470 These are taken from the middle of a series of detailed observations on the urine of two hospital patients under similar treatment from day to day, and one can readily imagine from