513 EAR: MIDDLE EAE, CHEONIC NON-SUPPURATIVE DISEASE used to hear Ijotter in a noise. Tiiniitus is often very distressing, sometimes rendering life almost unbearable, and in a few even suicidal tendencies may be present. The patients are morose, introspective, being to a large extent cut ofi' from the outside world. Many acquire in some degree the power of lip reading, and they will consequently hear better when the speaker is facing them. A low but clear voice is heai'd better than shouting. High tones will be distinctly heard better than low ; for instance, a watch will be heard comparatively better than the human voice. On looking at the membrane it will appear markedly depressed and opacjue. By means of Siegle's specuhun the malleus may be firmly adherent to the pi'omontory ; the membrane perhaps fixed to the descending pro- cess of the incus and round the malleus to the pro- montory. On inflation the air enters with difficulty and produces no change in the position of the malleus or membrane. Improvement in hearing is either absent, or, if slight, is of short duration. Diminution of the noise is sometimes produced. Frof/uosis.—Is extremely bad as regards hear- ing and tinnitus ; deafness is never absolute, and the patient may become more or less used to the noises, which may vary with the state of health. Operative measures may produce im- provement, if not in hearing, in tinnitus. Diagnosis.—From the previous stages it may be diagnosed by the fixation of the membrane, the obstruction of the tube, the paracusis, and the slight improvement on inflation. The tuning-fork a.nd tone-hearing tests will distinguish it from internal ear disease, but we occasionally find that the tuning-fork in these cases indicates a certain amount of internal ear implication ; the history of paracusis will be sufficient to stamp the case as having originated in the middle ear, especially if other symptoms of internal ear dis- eases are absent. True auditory -s'ertigo does not occur. Treatment.—It follows from the pathological condition that ordinary local and general treat- ment is useless in effecting useful or any per- manent improvement in hearing or tinnitus. The treatment, however, described under the previous stage should be given a fair trial. If tlio patient is satisfied with the temporary and slight improvement which may be effected, especially if lip-reading lessons are taken, ordinary methods of treatment should be from time to time employed. (c) Operative Measures.—Before inidertaking operative measures care must be taken that the internal ear is intact, and it must be pointed out to the patient that they are more or less of an experimental nature. It is well to fully explain to the patient the true condition of things, and to leave it to him to decide as to whether they should be undertaken. It is wise to first operate on the ear which is more aftected. These intra- tympanic operations fall under three headings— VOL. II (1) Those undcrtalien to relieve tension. (2) Those undertaken to diminish undue flaccid ity. (3) Those undertaken to allow sound waves to reach the fenestrtu direct. None of them should be undertaken without strict antiseptic precautions. (I) Those unulertalcen to relieve Tension.— These comprise division of adhesions, section through the posterior fold, tenotomy of the tensor tympani, and division of ligaments. These have not realised expectations, any im- provement which is produced speedily disap- pearing as soon as the inevitable healing takes place ; therefore they may be placed on one side. {i) Those imdertalien in cases of undue Flaccidit?/. — When the membrane or some part of the membrane is seen by inflation or the Siegle's speculum to be unduly flaccid, due to atrophy or to energetic inflations, or the result of a cicatrix, especially if marked im- pi'ovement in hearing occurs when it is put on the stretch, multiple incisions made through the flaccid part with the idea of producing cicatricial contraction may be undertaken, but the result is often disappointing. Collodion painted over the flaccid portion and adjacent meatal wall may be of benefit. (3) Those undertalieii to allow of Hound Waves reat'hiwi the Fenestra^ direct.—It has long been known that the artificial perforation of the membrane will in some cases produce great im- provement in hearing, but as healing always takes place, and no method of keeping the perforation open has yet been devised, some further procedure becomes necessary. As to whether further proceedings should be adopted exploratory tympanotomy is a useful guide, for if it produces improvement in hearing or tinnitus, we are encouraged to proceed to moi'e radical measures ; but even if it does not, and given that the internal ear is intact, and tlie case is not one of atrophy, we may, if the patient so desires, adopt the more radical measures; as it may mean that the absence of improvement is due to fixation of the sta})es, or to blocking of the round window to cicatricial tissue. Exploratory Tympanotomy.—This little opera- tion is best performed under gas aiucsthesia, liy cutting a flap with its apex uppermost in the posterior and superior segment, by means of a sharp-jjoiuted knife, under a good reflected hght. Preliminary inflation of the middle ear niay be useful in separating the membrane as far as possible from the middle ear wall. Further procedures can be divided into two stages— («) Removal of the membrane, malleus, and incus, which if not productive of improvement, even after an artificial membrane has been tried, may be followed by {h) Mobilisation or removal of the stapes, 33