378 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM tion, and this brings about neutralisation, while alkalies have the opposite effect. This reflex secretion persists even after the vagi and sj'm- pathetic have been cut, its occurrence being then probably due to the presence of a local centre perhaps in the neighbourhood of the pylorus. The maximum flow occurs about three hours after food has been taken, then sinks for about the following four hours, when it may again rise. The greater the flow, the poorer is the juice in solids. Action of the Enzymes.—The ferments, in the pancreatic juice are four in number, the most important one being trypsin, which acts upon proteids, transforming thetn into more soluble bodies. Unlike pepsin, it acts best in a weakly alka- line solution, although it is also active in neutral or faintly acid ones. Still even with weak organic acids, altliough at the outset the action is almost as marked as in slightly alkaline media, the ferment is slowly destroyed, dis- appearing, however, much more rapidly with weak inorganic acid solutions. Thus it is use- less giving such preparations as pancreatin by mouth, because trypsin is rapidly destroyed by the acid gastric juice. The first action which it exercises on proteids is simply a solvent one, and it is doubtful whether any alkali-albumin is found or not. The digestion passes so rapidly through the stage of primary albunioses that it is often difficult to detect their presence, but deutero-all)umose (a secondary one) is formed in large quantity, and then peptone makes its appearance. But the most characteristic feature, from the chemical standpoint at least, in tryptic digestion is the further decomposition of the peptone. Until recently it was believed that all the peptone did not undergo decomposition, but that a part was resistant, this being termed antipeptone, while the rest, which was split up into amido-acids (such as leucin, tyrosin, and aspartic acid), ammonia, etc., was termed hemi- peptone. Siegfried regarded antipeptone as identical with an acid which he found in paired combination in muscle and milk, namely, carnic acid ; but it seems unlikely that this is the case, as Kossel, Kutscher, and others have shown that Kiihne's antipeptone is really a mixture containing certain bases, called the hexone bases (lysin, histidin, and arginin). These bodies are only formed after veiy prolonged digestion. The point of importance is that, in all probabilit}', if only digestion be continued long enough, all the peptone can be broken down. Now, although this is true for artificial tryptic diges- tion, the action is a much more limited one in the intestine, very little leucin and tyrosin ever being formed under normal conditions. In fact, it is probable that the pancreatic juice is mainly required to render the proteids soluble and ready for absorption in cases where such large quantities have been taken tliat, if this action did not take place, a great loss of proteid would result, this material undergoing decomposition in the lower parts of the intestinal canal. As we shall describe more fully later, one is com- pelled to admit that even the transformation into allnimoses and pejDtones is not absolutely essential because the forerunners of these (soluble albumins and albuminates) are themselves cap- able of absorption by the intestinal mucosa. The products of a pancreatic digestion easily undergo putrefaction, and hence in artificial digestive fluids such an agent as thymol or chloroform requires to be added. In addition to the substances mentioned above, a chromogen termed tryptophan, the nature of which has not yet been fully made out, is formed about the time that the amido-acids appear. A small amount of free ammonia also appears during digestion. Such is very shortly the nature of the hydrolytic decomposition of a simple pro- teid under tryptic digestion. Complex proteids are also more energetically attacked b}' trypsin than pepsin. Thus nvxcleo-albumins have not only their albuminous constituent easily broken down, but the resistant nuclein radicle is also slowly dissolved. There are in addition three other enzymes which occur in the pancreatic juice, an amylo- lytic, a fat-splitting, and a milk-curdling one. The amylolytic ferment, so far as we at present know, acts on the polysaccharides in the same way as ptj^alin. Thus starch and glycogen undergo hydration and are split up into the dextrins, which were described under salivary digestion, and maltose. The amount of the final product, maltose, depends on the relative quantities of enzyme and polysaccharide. The monosaccharides undergo no alteration, but are absorbed without alteration, while cellulose is not affected by the juice. The action of the pancreatic juice on fats is a more complex one. The acid chyme is neutral- ised by the bile, pancreatic juice, and the secre- tions from the intestinal glands, and then, if fatty acids be present, emulsification of fats can at once take place; l)ut the fat-splitting ferment assists in this action, setting free fatty acids from the neutral fats. Tliis fat-splitting action does not require to be a very marked one, because a very small quantity of free fatty acid is able, in the form of a soap, to emulsify a large quantity of fat. Later on, the mode of absorption of the emulsion will be referred to. Lecithin is also split up by this ferment. Bile seems to assist this ferment in its action. Like all other enzymes, it is easily destroyed by boiling, and the same occurs if the gland be exposed to the air for a short time, as in the artificial preparation of pancreatic extracts. The mUlc-curdlincj ferment of the juice seems to be identical with rennin, only its mode of action has not been so carefully worked out as that of the ferment derived from the stomach.