DEAFMUTISM 272 parents or grandparents, and of two or more deaf-mute ciiildren belonging to one family. Statistics from British institutions have been fully dealt with in tlie author's chapter on congenital deafness, " Deaf mutism, a Clinical and Pathological Study," but it is interesting to examine statistics' so entirely divorced from European influence as those of Japan must be. In the Report of the Tokio Institution for 1896, Mr. Shimpachi Konishi, director of the school, says, "Out of sixty-six dumb pupils in this school, there is one pupil whose grandfather was deaf, one whose grandfather's brother was deaf, and one whose father's grandfather was deaf. The number of pupils who inherited dvimbness directly from their parents is only three, whilst fourteen dumb pupils were born of parents who married their cousins." Now these statistics are quite parallel with similar ones from British and American institutions. Then take the following instances from the Glasgow recoi'ds :— 1. In the F. family there ai-e 10 children—5 deaf born, and 5 hearing. The parents hear. 2. In the Ayrshire family there have occurred during the present centur}' 42 cases of congenital deafness; deaf - mute children are still being born into this family, and one is being educated in the Glasgow institution now. There spring from these statistics, for the fuller consideration of which the author's work may be consulted, these two conclusions :— 1. The congenitally deaf and those related to them should not marry. 2. Intermarriage of blood relations should be strongly discouraged. The fir»t iMsition—that the congenitally deaf should not marry—is generally conceded by those who work amongst the deaf, but the present arrangements for the education of the deaf, and their management in missions and institutes for the deaf during the period of adolescence, is eminently fitted to encourage union between the congenitally deaf. If not during the school period, at least during the period of adolescence, everything should be done to discourage the association of the deaf and dumb with each other, and the danger of their meeting with those similarly afflicted should be constantly kept before the congeni- tally deaf by those in charge of them. There are a few bad families, to the members of which it would be well to prohibit marriage altogether. Here is an example. It is taken from the Sheffield Evening Telegraph for 26th June 1896:—"At an inquest yesterday on William Earnshaw, fifty-nine, a St. Pan eras saddler, it was stated that the relatives could not identify the body, as the wife and sister were blind, deaf, and dumb, and that the four children were deaf and dumb. The deceased was deaf and dumb, and was so when he Avas married." Now such families as this are re- sponsible for a large number of the deaf mutes in our institutions. I do not think it would be wrong to prohibit marriage to the members of such families. I do not say that all the congenitally deaf should be forbidden marriage, Init where the defect is so pronounced that the result is a foregone conclusion, I think the interests of the State should go before those of the individual. The second position—that blood relations should not intermarry — can hardly be dealt with by legislation, and if the facts were known there should be no need for legislation. On the other hand, prohibition involves no injury to any one. The facts are these. The inter- marriage of cousins will emphasise in the off- spring whatever defects are characteristic of the family; there is no chance of these being neutralised or dying out as the result of the marriage, as is usually the case when persons previously unrelated get married. Given per- fectly healthy cousins with no tendency to any disease, intermarriage would not do harm to the offspring, and might conceivably do good. But as siich cousins do not exist, marriage between cousins is often disastrous and is always imprudent. The Morbid Anatomy of Deafmutism.—It is curious that malformation of the external ear is seldom found in deafmutism which so often is congenital. Probably not even in one per cent of deaf-mute children does such a con- dition exist. In the middle ear pathological conditions are much more common, but these consist of the usual changes—perforations of the membrane, loss of the ossicles, necrosis of the petrous portion, etc. But, of course, it is not to these that the deafness is due. The acquired deafmutism is almost always due to disease of the internal ear which has spread from the middle ear, and caused inflammatory changes involving destruction of the mem- branous labyrinth and of the nerve structures which it supports. In a number of cases the danger appears to approach from the side of the brain—meningitis,—and more rarely still, the damage to the inner ear is due to a primary labyrinthitis. In congenital deafness the changes on which the deafness depends are not essentially different from those described above, except in cases which depend on arrest of development or malformation. They consist of obliteration of the normal nervous structures by inflammatory new formations, chiefly osseous. It is not possible to estimate the proportion of cases due to malformation, but it is undoubtedly smaller than was formerly supposed. After a series of years it cannot in many cases be decided whether a structure has been obliterated or has not been developed. The Testing of Deaf Mutes.—It will be found impossible to apply reliable and accurate tests to very young deaf mutes. The presence or