124 CHOLERA, EPIDEMIC community exposed to an epidemy, cannot be overestimated. If further expei'ience should confirm the reports of the results obtained from these vaccinations, the terrors of cholera will be greatly diminished. Diagnosis.—With the aid of a bacteriological examination of the stools, there ought now to be little difficulty in distinguishing severe cases of simple diarrhoea from cholera. A well- mai'ked case of cholera cannot be mistaken for any other disease, except, perhaps, the choleraic form of malarial attack; but attention to the history of the case, combined with a microscopic examination of the blood and fceces, will clear up the diagnosis. Poisoning by arsenic, anti- mony, and corrosive sublimate present many of the features of cholera, but the cholera stools are characteristic. Prognosis. — We need not say that in a disease which on an average carries off one-half of those attacked, the prognosis should always be guarded. The disease is most fatal in the ex- tremes of life and in pregnant women. Great prostration, well-marked cyanosis, involuntary discharges, or cessation of the diarrhoea without any sign of reaction, and the occurrence of stupor and persistent anuria after reaction has set in are all of evil augury. On the other hand, a fall of the rectal temperature, an in- creased fulness of the pulse in the algid state, a normal temperature and absence of typhoid symptoms after reaction has set in, and a urine abundant in quantity and free from albumin are hopeful signs. Treatment. — Although the indications for treatment are now better understood, we have as yet no means of successfully meeting those indications. In respect to cholera the advice of Hippocides should never be forgotten, "to do good and do no harm." The causal indications are to destroy the microbe in the intestinal canal or inhibit its growth. The symptomatic indications are to arrest the diarrhoea and vomiting, to restore the fluidity of the blood, to sustain the heart's action, to restore warmth to the external surface of the body, and alleviate the intense suffering caiised by the cramps. In attempting to fulfil the causal indication, cresline, creosote, cresole, and salol were tried in Hamburg, but none of them proved of any ad- vantage. Calomel did, however, seem to do good, and the benefit resulting from its use may be ascribed to its germicidal properties. One or two 5-grain doses may be given to begin with, and then 3 grains every six hours. Under the treatment the diarrhoea often augments for several hours and then diminishes. Besides calomel there is no internal remedy that can be safely employed to meet the causal indication, and it must be confessed that calomel does so imperfectly. Considerable success, however, appears to have followed the use of warm tannic acid enemata recommended by Cantani and others, and, if we mistake not, they were found to be of some service in Hamburg when given in the first stage of the disease. The tannic acid is supposed to destroy the cholera bacillus and neutralise its toxins, and it may do so, but the question is, can tannin enemata reach the seat of the disease ? Cantani's formula is: Tannic acid, grammes, 3 to 6; gum-arabic, grammes, 30 to 50; lavidanum, 30 to 50 drops; infusion of camomile, at 30° C, 1 litre. The Dian-rhaa.—There is something approach- ing unanimity as to the advantage of arresting the premonitory diarrhoea. It is believed that the disease may frequently be cut short in this stage by the use of astringents and sedatives, and their employment is also indicated in the first stage of the developed disease. When algidity has set in the diarrhoea usually abates, at any rate absorption is then so completely arrested that this class of remedies would then be useless. Compound chalk powder, opium in combination with sulphuric acid or with acetate of lead, are the remedies most frequently re- sorted to in order to check the diarrhoea. Graves considered acetate of lead and opium to be the best preparation. He recommended twenty grains of acetate of lead and one grain of opium to be divided in tweh^e pills, one to be given every half hour until the discharges began to diminish, and he says that " in all cases where medicine promised any chance of relief, this remedy was attended with the very best effects." Perhaps no more reliable remedy to check the diarrhoea can be named than acetate of lead in combination with opium. Vomiting.—For the arrest of vomiting ice in morsels, chloroform sinapisms over the stomach, calomel in large doses—say 15 to 20 gi'ains— mustard emetics, and many other remedies have been tried. None appear to succeed better, or so well, as a tablespoonful of mustard in a pint of warm water. Sometimes a massive dose of calomel will quieten the stomach when other means have failed. In the less severe cases, ice, and a large mustard poultice over the stomach, will prove of service. Collapse.—We have seen that the draining off of the water from the blood contributes to the arrest of the secretions, to the enfeeblement of the heart, and the consequent algidity. The injection of saline fluids into the veins has often been followed by a temporary improvement in all the symptoms; but the injected fluid is rapidly discharged by the bowel, and the patient falls back into the hopeless state of collapse from which the injection had for the time rescued him. Some recoveries have followed this plan of treatment, but its em- ployment has generally ended in disappoint- ment, and it is not even devoid of danger. A