380 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM duced rapidly after death; but those which make their appearance later are often extremely poisonous even in minute doses. The best examples of the non-poisonous class are cadaverin and putrescin, while nenrin, derived from the decomposition of lecithin, is the best example of the poisonous series. This body is formed, un- like the ordinary poisonous ptomaines, com- paratively rapidly after death, usually about the third day. One I must bear in mind the possibility of the formation of such bodies in tinned meats and decomposing flesh of any kind, and also that similar bodies may be formed even during life in certain animals, e.g. mussels (see " Diet"). It is a comparatively rare oc- currence to meet with the formation of those bodies under pathological conditions in the organism, but they do occur in the fteces in cholera, especially putrescin and cadaverin. The primary poisonous products of bacteria are usually of the nature of globulins or albumoses. Not only are proteids acted upon by micro- organisms in the lower parts of the intestinal canal, but fats ai'e split up into glycerine and fatty acids, and carbohydrates undergo manifold fermentations or are simply hydrated. So long as there are carbohydrates present in the small intestine which have not undergone fermenta- tion, the proteids are protected from the action of micro-organisms. Thus a milk diet, from the presence of lactose, prevents decomposition of proteids owing to the formation of lactic acid. The influence which iniabsorbed fats exercise on the putrefaction of proteids has already been referred to. In the comparatively short small intestine of carnivora, and even in that of omnivora, very little putrefaction is set up compared to that occurring in the large intestine. Putrefaction in both small and large intestines is limited, however, to a comparatively small amount of the food-stuffs present, because, in the first place, micro-organisms, by rendering these substances more soluble, transform them into material which is more easily absorbed, and when they do break down proteids further, they form small quantities of substances, such as phenol, which check putrefaction ; while in the last place, owing to the great absorption of water in the large intestine, the conditions under which the bacteria grow are rendered less suitable. Before taking up the subject of intestinal move- ments, etc., it is necessary to refer shortly to the modes of absorption of the digested material, and also to the nature of its transmission through the organism. Absorption. — The part w Inch the gastric mucous membrane plays in absorption is still doubtful. Although very little water is absorbed, a fairly large quantity of soluble salts, albumose, sugar, alcohol, etc., is taken up; bvit the main channel of absorption is through the intestinal mucosa. The amount of a food-stuff absorbed is independent of its osmotic equivalent. Absorption and Metabolism of Proteids.— Althoiigh the absorption of proteids is rendered an easier and more rapid process by their peptonisation, there can be no doubt that soluble albuminous substances, such as syn- tonin and other albuminates, can be absorbed without undergoing further alteration. Modern treatment by rectal feeding is based on this fact, for in the large intestine the transformation of proteids into albumoses and peptones takes place only to a slight extent, not nearly sufficient to account for the fact that patients can by this means be kept in nitrogen equilibrium. This is true not only for the absorption, but also for the assimilation of soluble albuminous substances. Thus one can inject the blood-serum of another animal into the veins of a dog without albumin afterwards appearing in the urine. The forma- tion of large quantities of albumose or peptone seems in fact to be deleterious, as the intestinal mucosa is apt to suft'er from excessive stinuila- tion. When albumoses or peptones are absorbed, they are not carried as such to the tissues, but undergo polymerisation into albumins in the intestinal mucosa. Neither albumoses nor peptones are present in the blood at any time during digestion, nor are they stored up in the intestinal wall, and yet if they be allowed to lie in a separated intestinal loop they rapidly disappear. They must then undergo some alteration in the intestinal wall, and if the blood in the mesen- teric or portal vein be examined after a meal rich in proteids, it is found to be much richer in albumins than before digestion, while the lymph in the thoracic duct shows no alteration in its percentage of proteid. Ligature of the thoracic duct does not prevent the absorption of proteid, nor the subsequent rise in the excre- tion of nitrogen in the urine. These facts go to prove that the absorbed albumoses are trans- formed into albumins, and that the channels into which the latter pass are the blood and not the lymph vessels. The means by which this transformation has been brought abovit are un- known. The leucocytes certainly do not seem to take up the albumose and peptone and trans- form them into albumin, because no evidence has been brought forward that they are capable of effecting such a transformation. The great mass of absorbed proteid seems to act as a source of energy without being taken up by the tissues and organised, although a small amount must supply the place of the cell proteids, which are always undergoing degeneration. The amount of nitrogen excreted during the day in the healthy adult is equal to the amount absorbed in that period—that is to say, the organism breaks down the same amount of proteid that it absorbs, a condition referred to as nitrogen equilihri'um. The small amount of nitrogenous waste products which the tissue proteids furnish to the blood when they break down is balanced by the amount