CHELONISOMUS 83 chelonisomus, from x^^^^^Vy '"^ turtle, and o-o]/j,a, a body); schistosomus reflexus (Gurlt). Chelsea Pensioner. — The name given to a laxative, containing Hulphur, rhubarb, bitartrate of potash, guaiac, honey, and nut- meg ; used specially in cases of lijemorrhoids. Cheltenham. See Balneology {Great Britain, Chalybeate); Mineral Waters {Muri- ated Saline). Chemical Trades. See Trades, DANGE ROUS (Chemical). ChemOSiS.—Edematous swelling of the conjunctiva of the eye, which is thus raised and caused to project over the edge of the cornea. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Acute Ophthal- mia). ChemotaxiS.—An attraction or affinity of one tissue for a similar tissue, e.g. of nerve for nerve ; also the power of attraction or re- pulsion which some cells (or some constituents of cells) show as regards other cells. Che no pod i U m.—The goosefoot, several species of wliich have been used for their medicinal qualities ; the oil of the fruit of C. ambrocioides is official in the United States Pharmacopoeia, and is used as a vermifuge; other species are used as diuretics, emmena- gogues, narcotics, etc. Cherry Laurel. See Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata (Vegetable Agents). Chest. See Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Pliysical Signs); Asthma {Symptoms); Chil- dren, Clinical Examination {Physical Ex- amination of Chest); Mediastinum ; Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide); Syringomyelia {Sym}-)- toms, Thorax en bateau) ; vide infra under Chest, Clinical Examination ; Chest, De- formities ; Chest, Injuries; Chest-Wall, Affections of. Chest, Clinical Investigfation of" the.—In the clinical investigation of the chest the observer may gain much valuable information by a general survey of the patient, the appearance, expression, attitude, etc., before turning to the direct investigation of any cardiac or pulmonary derangement which may be sus- pected (Physiognomy). Yet the physiological functions and pathological alterations of cardiac and pulmonary organs are so intimately associ- ated that it is impossible for an observer to differentiate how much of the patient's altered appearance and attitude may be due to dis- turbance of the functions of respiration and how much to disturbance of the circulatoiy organs, unless a careful physical examination of the chest be made, fully investigating the condition of the lungs and heart. In examining the chest it is necessary to have the patient as far as possible at rest, with the limbs and trunk symmetrical and the light falling equally upon the parts under examina- tion. Insfection.—Form of Chest.—A'ormal.—It is not common to meet the ideal typical chest, with a well-developed almost symmetrical bony frame, well clothed with muscle, fairly rounded on the anterior aspect, the interspaces visible below but not above, the obliquity of the ribs increasing from above downwards, and the epigastric angle nearly a right angle. Many alterations are met which cannot justly be considered pathological, thus as the result of occupation, e.g. the depression at the lower end of the sternum found in shoemakers. During health the respiratory and circulatory move- ments are accompanied by ceaseless changes in the outlines of the chest. With full inspiration, full expansion of the chest, the axes of the ellipse become approximately equal and the horizontal outline becomes more circular. The framework of the chest is shortened from above downwards, the ribs are raised and approach the horizontal plane, the intercostal spaces are narrow anteriorly, the epigastric angle is wide, the sternum is carried forwards and upwards, the shoulders are raised, and the scapulic are closely applied to the chest-wall. Such is the chest of full inspiration. With full expiration the transverse axis of the ellipse markedly exceeds the antero-jjosterior, the ribs are de- pressed, the framework of the chest is lengthened from above downwards, the intercostal spaces are wide anteriorly, the sternum passes down- wards and backwards, the shoulders are low, and the scapular angles project somewhat from the chest-wall. Such is the chest of expiration. While these changes in the outline of the chest are constantly going on in health, in disease the same changes occur in an exaggerated degree. In disease and deformity there may be an increase or diminution in the length or height of the bony framework, an alteration in the horizontal position of the ribs leading to an alteration in the axes of the ellipse, an increase or diminution in the width of the intercostal spaces, in the size of the epigastric angle, in the position and direction of the sternum and spine, in the height of the shoulders and the position of the scapulae, and all these factors have a definite relation to the outline of the horizontal plane of the chest, and it is by the study of the outline of the horizontal plane that the observer will get the best idea of the altera- tions in the chest in disease and deformity. The outline of the horizontal plane of the chest is best ascertained by means of the cyrtometer. The best idea of the shape of the chest can be got by taking the outline at a given point with the cyrtometer. Various elaborate instruments are to be had, but a very good cyrtometer can