128 CHOLERA NOSTRAS onset of signs of exhaustion, serve to point a diiference. The occurrence of choleraic diarrhosa during the progress of enteric fever is infrequent, and can scarcely be mistaken for other than a com- plication of the primary disease, except when accompanying an ambulatory unsuspected case. The liquid stools common in intestinal fermen- tative dyspepsia chiefly call for evacuation in the morning hours, are intensely foetid and fseculent, and accompanied by much flatulence. The symptoms attendant on colitis, mucous and membranous, and the distinctive characters of the motions in these conditions, as well as the diff'erential signs of dysentery and dysenteric diarrhoBa, are treated of under their several headings. Prognosis.—Unless among infants, old people with weakened power of resistance or with feeble hearts, or in chronic invalids of little vitality, choleraic diarrhoea, when independent of ptomaine poisoning, is seldom fatal, although seeming on many occasions to nearly forebode death. In infants fed improperly, housed in badly ventilated or unventilated rooms, it proves very fatal. In adults, when uncomplicated, and where proper chances for treatment are obtainable, it rarely causes death, unless it be the result of poisoning by ptomaines taken with the food in sufficient quantity to overpower all means of successful resistance or treatment. Treatment.—Starvation is the best line of treatment in both infantile and adult choleraic diarrhoea; cold or iced water, and in adults, aerated water, if desired; if well tolerated, a little milk and lime water may be given; rest the affected parts. In such cases one or even two days may easily pass without nourishment being itaken. In infants, unless the diarrhoea ceases early, this should be a constant rule; ignore the protests of parents or relatives. In adults when a desire for food returns, apart from the simple craving for fluids, milk diet may be safely begun. In adults the less medicine given the better. Cold or iced water, hot-water bottles to the feet and legs, hot poultices, with or without mustard, over the abdomen, and plenty of fresh air generally suffice to arrest the symptoms. The administration of opium or morphina is of questionable propriety. The poison in the alimentary tract merits removal rather than detention; but if the pain be great, and the reflex nervous prostration pronounced, free use of opium will help to remove any chance of immediate collapse. If the patient be in a less prostrate state, the application of warmth, a small dose of calomel — large doses of calomel are dangerous, while small amounts are better fitted to act antiseptically,—and half-ounce or even ounce doses of whisky or brandy, often arrest the symptoms. If painful cramps super- vene, etherisation is advisable; indeed the calmative effect of an anaesthetic upon the whole nervous system, and the relief obtained from the pain of cramp and from the local abdominal pain, suggest that an earlier employment of an anajsthetic in such cases might prove of great service. If seen early, administration of castor oil and laudanum together act well. Should the stomach be restive and reject the stiunilaiits ordered, or the patient continue to retch, dilute hydrocyanic acid may be given, or teaspoonfuls of brandy and water, in which one drachm of the spirit is added to two or three ounces of water, the dose to be repeated every few minutes if vomiting threaten. Should the diarrhoea be imchecked by such measures, the sedative powers of opium or morphina may be called upon. The most efficacious method undoubtedly lies in the use of morphina supposi- tories. A day or two after the active symptoms have abated, especially if they have been arrested by the use of opium preparations, a full dose of castor oil may be given with safety to clear out all that remains in the bowel. The general indications for treatment may be summed up in a few words. If the patient appears to be strong enough to bear it, remove the exciting cause; if collapsed, and in danger from persisting exhausting discharges from the bowel, stimulate, and introduce morphina in a suppository or under the skin; in all cases apply warmth to the abdomen and the lower limbs, stop all food by the mouth,—in adults milk may be allowed,—inculcate rest, and secui'e the presence of fresh air. Cholerine. — This name (cholerine) is sometimes regarded as a synonym of cholera nostras (q.v.), sometimes as a term for a form of influenza with intestinal symptoms, or for the milder varieties of diarrhoea which are common during the prevalence of epidemic cholera. Cholesteatoma.—A cystic tumour, with a pearl-like appearance, containing white fat and cholesterine crystals, and sometimes hairs. See Brain, Tumours of (Morbid Ana- tomy) ; Ear, Affections of Tympanic Mem- brane ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration (Cholesteatoma). Cholesteraemla.—A group of symp- toms (jaundice, irritability, and other nervous symptoms) believed to be due to the presence in the blood of cholesterine. See Jaundice. Cholesterine. — In chemical composi- tion cholesterine is an alcohol (CjgH^jOH), but it resembles the fats, being soluble in alcohol or ether; its crystals are square with a notch at one corner. " Lanoline," or Adeps Lanoe Hydrosus, is cholesterine fat which has absorbed much water. See Expectoration (Crystals); F^CES (Cliemical Examination); Fluids, Exam-