303 DENITKIFICATION Denitrification. See Micro-Organ- ISMS {Feriiientdtivn unil l')i1refaction). Denman's Spontaneous Evolu- tion.—A sort of' riatiiriil version occurring' at or above the brim of the pelvis in cases of transverse presentation ; often confused with Douglas' form of spontaneous delivery. See LA]i(jUK, DiAtiNOSis AND Mechaxism (Transverse Liet^, Sj/ontditeo/is Delivery). Dental Caries. See Teeth {Dental Cdi-iex). Sre <ihi) XosE, ACCESSORY SlN'USES, Inflammation of {Etioloepj). Dental Necrosis. See Teeth {Dental Necrosix). Dentals. See Physiology, Kbspiration {Vi)iri\ Spetrh, Crjnsonant Sounds, Dentals). Dentate Nucleus. See Physiology, Nervous System {Cerebellum,, Structure). Dentifrice. — A substance, usually a powder (or a liipiid), used for cleansing the teeth. See Teeth {Dental Caries, Prevention). Dentigrerous Cyst.—A cyst contain ing teeth; a dermoid cyst. See Mouth, Dis- eases of the Jaw {Tumonrs of the Jaw). Dent i ne. See Teeth {Genesis of the Teeth, Dent nie). Dentistry, Mechanical. See Teeth {Mecheinieal De/itistr//). Dentition.—The cutting (or eruption) of the teeth, or teething ; the number, character, and arrangement of the teeth, often expressed 2-2 1-1 as a formula, thus—incisors , canines 2 — 2 1 — 1' 2-2 3 -S bicuspids i^—^, molars See Children, Development of (Dentition, Symptoms, Treat- ment); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of In- fancy {Ailments of Den tition) ; Rickets {Clinical Features) ; Syphilis [in Children, Later Siff7is) ; Teeth {Genesis of the Teeth, Eruption). Denture.—A set of artificial teeth. Deobstruent.—A medicine or substance which can remove obstruction by opening the natural passages or pores of the body, e.g. a diaphoretic or diuretic drug. Deodorants.—Substances which destroy foul odours or fetid effluvia ; deodorisers ; they are not necessarily antiseptic, but many anti- septics are also deodorants. See Disinfection {Deodorants). Deodorising^ Liquid. See Burnett's Fluhi. Depilatories.—Agents or substances for removing growing hairs, especially hairs growing on uiuisual places, e.g. on the face in women; caustic applications have been com- monly used, but electrolysis is tlie best method ; the results from the use of the X-rays have not always been satisfactory. See X-Kavs {Hyper- trichosis). Depletion.—The relieving of pletliora, congestion, or tlie overcharged vessels of the liody by medical means, formei'ly (especially) liy bleeding. Depopulation.—Decrease in the popu- lation of a country either because the death-rate exceeds the birth - rate, or (less correctly) on account of active emigration. See Decline of the Birth-Rate. Deposit.—A sediment in a li(juid {e.g. urine) or a substance (generally abnormal) found in some organ or tissue {e.g. uratic concretions). See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Urinary Sediments). DepreSSiO. See Couching.—The sink- ing of tlie lens with its capsule into the vitreous humour by pressure with a needle in cases of cataract. Depression.—A lowered state of vitality, physiological or psychical ; also the displacement inward towards the cranial cavity of a fractured cranial bone, etc. Depressor Nerve. — The superior cardiac lirancii of tlie vagus nerve ; stimulation of the upper end (after section) causes slowing of the heart (a reflex effect through the inferior cardiac branch) and lowering of the arterial blood pressure. See Physiology, Circulation {Physiology of the Heart : jVerwrus Co-nnections). DeradelphuS.—A double monster with a single head ; the trunks are fused from the neck downwards; rare in the human subject, less rare in animals. Derbyshire Neck. — Goitre. See Thyi!(iiii Gi.anh, Mfihoal {Goitre). Dercum's Disease. See Obesity {Adiposis Dolorosa). DerencephaluS.—A variety of the teratologifal state known as anencejihalus, in which there is spina bifida only in the cervical region. Derivatives. — Medical or therapeutic means by which (it is supposed) a diseased state (such as inflammation) may be transferred (drawn away) from one part of the body (where it is a cause of great danger) to another part (where its action is less serious) ; blisters, cup- ping, leeches, etc., are examples of derivatives.