199 COLOUR VISION Practical Remarks.—Seamen.—The practical importance of the subject of colour-blindness was not recognised until 1855, when Dr. (ieorge Wilson of Edinbiu'gh published his Researches on, C(dour-Blindness, and graphically drew atten- tion to the dangers of employing colour-blind men in positions of trust. In 1876 a railway disaster at Arlsey Junction, and the suggestion that it was due to colour-blindness on the part of the engine-driver, excited public attention. In the following year the Board of Trade established a compulsory test for those of the Mercantile Marine applying for certificates of master and mate. The test consisted in the naming of colours, the consequence being that men rejected at one time or place passed the test successfully on another occasion. The perfunctory manner in which the Regulations respecting colour-blind men were drawn is shown by the following facts :— 1. That no test was required of "look-outs," ordinary seamen, apprentices, or pilots. 2. That the colour-blind officer received his certificate, though it was endorsed " colour- blind." 3. That no provision was made for colour- blind officers who might conscientiously feel their unfitness for the sea life. The inefficiency of the so - called " colour- blind test" led to a long controversy between members of the medical pi'ofession and the Board of Trade, residting finally in the establish- ment of the Holmgren Wool Test as the official test on September 1, 1894. The Board have not, however, yet risen to a full sense of their responsibility. The primary object of Govern- ment is to provide safeguards for human life which individual care cannot command. From this standpoint their own Reports condemn them. Between 1877 and 1894, 72,894 sailors already holding or applying for certificates were compidsorily examined : 409 failed to pass in colour. In the same period, 6.370 voluntarily offered themselves for examination, and 293 failed to pass. Since 1894, when the Holm- gren test came into vogue, 21,720 have been tested, with 232 failures, reduced on appeal to 215. Taking the figures of both periods to- gether, between 1877 and 1898, 100,984 sailors have been tested, and 917 found colour-blind. Of these 917 colour-blinds there is not one tittle of evidence to show that they have abandoned the sea life ; on the contrary, we know that in spite of their defect they are allowed to continue their calling, and do so to the menace of the public safety. The obvious deduction is that while the Board of Trade completely fail to pro- cure that measure of protection which the public requirements demand, the public on their part have, by the adoption of fallacious Regulations, been deluded into a state of false security. The reconnncndations of the Royal Society's Com- mittee that all candidates for positions of trust should be compulsorily examined, and that in judicial inquiries as to collisions the witnesses should be examined for colour-blindness, would, if carried out, open an era of safety which has hitherto been miknown. Railwai/ Men.—Up to the present time there has been no agreement among the various railway companies as to the application of a recognised standard colour-test. The conse- quence is that colour-blind men may still be found in the ranks of railway employees. Recent agitation on the part of the British Medical Association will no doubt result finally in the universal adoption of Holmgren's test, supplemented if necessary by some quantita- tive method. Colouring- Matters. See Physio- logy, Tissues {Fiyment (Jells) ; Physiology, Excretion {Urine, Pie/ments); Pigments of the Body and Excreta. Colp- or Colpo-.—In compound words, colp- or coljxj- (from Gr. koAtto?, vagina) signifies relating to or belonging to the vagina. In addition to the words specially referred to below, there are eolpahjia, vaginal pain ; colj)- atresia, vaginal atresia; colpectasy, vaginal dilatation ; colpeurynter, vaginal dilating rubber bag; colpocele, vaginal hernia; colpocystiiis, inflammation affecting both the bladder and the vagina; mlpo-hysterectomy, vaginal hyster- ectomy ; eolp)o-leucorrhoea, vaginal leucorrhoea; colpoptosis, vaginal prolapse; colporrhexis, vaginal rupture; colposjjasmus, vaginal spasm; coljwstegnosis, vaginal atresia; colpostenosis, vaginal constriction ; and colposynizesis, vaginal narrowness. Colpectomy.—An extensive operation, in which the vagina is excised, and its bed columnised; the uterus may be left behind (Mailer's operation) or removed as well (hystero- colpectomy); it is employed in cases of in- veterate prolapse in elderly women (past the menopause). Colpitis.— Inflammation of the vagina, catarrhal, follicular, emphysematous, mycotic, or other. See Vagina, Disorders of (Vaginitis). Colpocleisis.—From Gr. koAttos, vagina, and kAcis-, a key — is the operation by which the vagina is permanently obliterated or closed; it is employed in intractable cases of vesico- vaginal fistula or of prolapsus uteri (in old women). The requisites for the operation are anaesthetics, vaginal specula, a uterine sound, a knife, curved needles, a needle-holder, and sutures (silkworm gut or catgut). The vaginal canal is exposed ; a ring of mucous membrane is excised as high up as possible; the raw surfaces on the anterior and posterior walls thus produced are then brought together with silk worm-gut sutures, the sound being in the