CHOROID, DISEASES OF 144 plastic choroiditis. It is unnecessary to add anything to what was said under that heading. SCLEROTICO-CHOROIDITIS, OR MyOPIC CHOROIDITIS. —This is rather of the nature of an atrophic condition of choroid than a true inflammation, and will be referred to under " Myopia." Tuberculous Disease may affect the choroid in three ways, which differ in ophthalmoscopic signs, prognosis, and treatment. (a) Tuberculous Disseminated Choroiditis.— This form of chronic inflammation of the choroid is very similar to the syphilitic variety, and is, according to some authorities, as common. It is with difficulty distinguished, but the patches are smaller and slightly raised. Just as in the syphilitic form, degeneration takes place with clioroidal atrophy, the process being, however, slower. Its treatment is unsatisfactory ; before atrophic changes have set in mercurial inunc- tion may help absorption of the exudation, and phosphates or arseniates with cod - liver oil should be prescribed by the mouth. The prognosis is not so good as in the syphilitic variety. {h) Miliary Tuherculosis of the Choroid occu- pies the region of the chorio-capillaris and the vascular layer, and is quite behind the uvea. It is most commonly found in cases of acute miliary tuberculosis, but it may be present in all forms and stages of tuberculous disease. Ophthalmoscopically it appears as a greyish hemispherical eminence varying from 3 mm. to 1 mm. in diameter, and may be even smaller. One or several of these first appear in the macular region, and are afterwards followed by others in the neighbourhood. The youngest tubercles are very small; the oldest are the largest, and are somewhat white at the centre. The ophthalmoscopic signs are very similar to those of disseminated choroiditis, though the two conditions are not likely to be mistaken owing to the different general conditions. The patches are more raised, rarely pigmented, more clearly defined, and less brilliantly white. In the form that occurs in acute general tuber- culosis they appear as a rule only a short time before death. Papillitis is a frequent accom- panying symptom. Both eyes are nearly always affected. Microscopically each patch shows the typical structure of tubercle, though the specific bacilli are not always to be found. In cases of acute tuberculous disease where there are typhoid symptoms, and in tuberculous meningitis where the diagnosis is not always easy, the detection of tubercles of the choroid is of great assistance in clearing up the case, although the absence of choroidal tubercle does not prove the absence of tuberculous disease in other organs. (c) Tuberculous Tvmour of the Choroid.—This condition is probably always secondary to tuber- culous disease elsewhere, though this cannot always be proved. In early stages, a retinal detachment, less defined than the detachment due to choroidal sarcoma, will be the only sign. As growth takes place glaucomatous symptoms rarely occur, the coats of the globe rapidly giving way with the formation of a staphyloma and subsequent panophthalmitis. It is doubt- ful if general infection can occur, so enucleation should be postponed till vision is lost. The growth is always luiilateral. Gumma of the Choroid is very rare. It may exist in conjunction with gumma of the iris or ciliary body. The diagnosis is necessarily difficult, inasmuch as the vitreous is hazy and the fundus cannot be seen. It rests mainly on the concurrent syphilitic lesions, the history, and the effect of antisyj^hilitic treatment. Sight is usually greatly impaired, but, if the condition is attacked in time, almost perfect vision may be regained. Sarcoma of the Choroid is the commonest intra-ociilar tumour of adult life, just as glioma is the most frequent in infancy and early child- hood. Etiology. — No cause has been discovered. There appears to be no relationship between it and blows on the eyeball. Symptoms.—Sarcoma of the choroid usually begins in a manner so insidious as to be im- noticed even by the patient until the tumour has attained a considerable size; even then it is often discovered accidentally. Sometimes, however, though rarely, the growth of the sarcoma is accompanied by local pains, phos- phenes, etc. When seen at an early stage there may be nothing externally to attract notice. In addi- tion to the dimness of sight which may have first caused the patient to apply for advice, we find that the visual field is defective, and, when it is examined by means of the perimeter, pre- sents a scotoma corresponding to the position of the tumour. With the ophthalmoscope the out- line of the tumour can sometimes be seen to form a rounded prominence, pushing the retina forwards into the vitreous cavity. In this early stage inflammatory signs are absent, and the tension is normal or even slightly subnormal. At a later stage the presence of the tumour is accompanied by a distinct increase in the tension of the globe, and the eye presents other symp- toms of glaucoma. The anterior ciliary vessels are congested; the cornea becomes hazy and more or less anfesthetic. The anterior chamber gradually becomes shallow. The iris is some- times subacutely inflamed, and forms posterior adhesions {synechia}) to the capsule of the lens, which render the pupil irregular. Not infre- quently the iris is atrophied, and it may be detached at that part of its periphery which corresponds to the position of the tumour. The vitreous also is frequently rendered cloudy by the presence of opacities. The vision has gradu-