EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF 478 in the middle ear, and, therefore, operative efforts to form a proper canal very rarely result in benefit to the hearing. In a very few cases, where the congenital contraction has been limited to the outer end of the meatus, benefit has followed the cautious use of sponge tents. A partial closure of the meatus is sometimes caused by a marked projection of the antero- inferior wall of the osseous jDortion—this only proves inconvenient by impeding the examina- tion of the lower part of the membrane. (b) Stenosis from Swelling or Thickening of the Cutaneous Lining.—The most common cause of this form of stenosis is chronic eczematous inflammation. The persistent irritation of the meatal lining, caused by a purulent dischai'ge from the middle ear, may also in time lead to swelling and thickening, causing partial stenosis. Under this heading may also be included partial or complete stenosis due to abscess, tumour, or enlargement of the parotid gland in front. Pus may, in the former case, find its way from the parotid into the meatus. Furunculi may also completely close the meatus. Swellings arising from mastoid disease frequently also obstruct the meatus from behind. In the treatment of these forms of stricture of the meatus, we should first clear away, by sjainging with a warm solution of boracic acid, any materials, such as purulent, ceruminous, or epidermic collections, which are apt to collect in a narrow channel. If there be eczematous thickeiaing and no middle ear disease, we should treat this as already described. In many cases, however, we have to deal with a discharge from the middle ear. Then careful cleansing and drying of the narrow passage, along with gentle efibrts to dilate it, should be carried out. The mere regular introduction of a cotton - wool cylinder, for the purpose of drying the passage, has a somewhat widening effect, and still more so if the elongated plug be smeared with some stimulating ointment, such as iodoform or boracic acid and vaseline, and retained con- stantly in the ear, changing it night and morn- ing. Such plugs should be gradually increased in thickness, as the increasing lumen of the canal permits. Patients, when taught to introduce these simple plugs, can often effect marked im- provement, even when the thickening is partly bony in character. With increased width of the meatus, treatment of the middle ear can be more efficiently carried out. In the more in- tractable forms, sponge or laminaria tents, pre- ferably the former, may be tried, but with caution. A severe and rapid dilatation must be avoided, and the tent should not be allowed to remain in the ear more than an hour at a time, nor repeated more frequently than every third or fourth day, while the surgeon should be at hand to remove the tent if much pain is excited. A small conically-shaped vulcanite or rubber tube, placed and retained in the canal after the dilating eflbrts have ceased, may be useful in maintaining the dilatation, while it facilitates syringing as well as the escape of secretion from the middle ear. (c) Stenosis from the Formation of Septa or Adhesions.—A membranous septum sometimes forms across the meatus, leading to its entire occlusion. It may be mistaken by the inex- perienced observer for the tympanic membrane ; but its nearness to the outer orifice and the absence of the usual features of the tympanic membrane distinguish the one from the other. The septum more frequently takes the form of a membrane with a hole in the centre. A certain extent of the meatus may be closed by adhesions, due to the long-continued contact of ulcerated surfaces, or to the coalescence of granulation tissue. The defective hearing in such cases will depend on the extent of the closure and on the condition of the middle ear. Where we find septa or adhesions, the middle ear is or has been the seat of purulent disease. A membranous septum, closing the canal, should be removed by a circular incision, and an antiseptic cotton-wool plug or a strip of iodoform gauze introduced, so as to ensure an open space, until the healing process has been completed. Adhesions have to be treated by separation with a fine-bladed knife, followed by plugs, as in the case of septa. (fZ) Stenosis from Hyperostosis of the Meatus. —Hyperostosis is frequently due to chronic purulent middle ear disease, giving rise to chronic periostitis of the meatus with increased formation of bone. The cutaneous lining is also usually reddish and somewhat thickened. The lumen of the canal may be reduced so as scarcely to admit of an ordinary probe; and, when due to purulent middle ear disease, usually contains secretion. It is to be remembered that if the closure of the meatus be very great in these j)urulent conditions of the middle ear, dangerous retention of pus in the deep parts may result. Hyperostosis is occasionally found in connection with non-purulent middle ear catarrh. From exostosis, hyperostosis is distinguished by the diff'used uniform thickening of the latter. The treatment of this form of stenosis is in- cluded in that of the second variety. (e) Stenosis from Exostoses or Osseous Tumours. —There are two varieties of exostoses of the meatus—(1) those with broad bases, usually multiple, very hard, even ivory in texture, and terminating in apices, which approach each other so as to leave a small space between ; (2) those having a narrow pedunculated attachment, usually springing from the posterior meatal wall, and occurring singly. Cause.—Aural exostosis seems frequently to be associated with hereditary predisposition or constitutional peculiarity, and the ivory or mul- tiple varieties are probably in many cases con- nected with the gouty or rheumatic diathesis. They are certainly found more commonly in