423 DROPSY, EPIDEMIC mortality was trivial in comparison with these figures. At the time of its occurrence the condition was regarded by many to be merely that type of beriberi in which dropsy is a pronounced symptom, the nervous phenomena being very slightly marked, but M'Leod concluded that it was a distinct entity. As no further outbreaks have been recorded, our knowledge of the disease has not increased. Little is known regarding the morbid anatomy and etiology, but the fact of its communicability and the histories of the successive outbreaks furnish evidence in favour of a germ theory. The disease ran a course of from three to six weeks. Dropsy, antemia, and fever formed the cardinal symptoms, these usually being accom- panied by great general weakness, wasting, breath- lessness, diarrhoea, vomiting, and various nervous symptoms. The amount of anaemia and dropsy present gave rise to the term acute anaemic dropsy. The dropsy was usually, but not in- variably, preceded by the febrile and other symptoms hereafter referred to. The onset of the oedema was sudden, and first showed itself in the legs, and in severe cases soon became general, with the development of extensive pleural and pericardial effusion with oedema of the lungs. A distinct tendency to recurrence of the dropsy after its disappearance was noted in some cases. A remittent type of fever was present, not usually high, but varying from 99;^° F. to 102° F., and the time of its occurrence bore no apparent constant relationship to the development of the dropsy. Alimentary dis- turbances, notably diarrhoea and vomiting, and also nervous symptoms, e.g. anaesthesia of the skin, itching, and paresis of muscles, were occa- sionally met with, but were not common. An erythematous skin eruption not infrequently appeared about a week after the oedema. In fatal cases death was sudden, and was due to the pulmonary and cardiac complications. The points on which stress was laid in support of the view that the disease is distinct from beriberi are :—The acuteness of the affection ; the presence of well-marked fever, and the skin erviption ; but it must be admitted that further information is wanting before the distinction can be fully and finally drawn {vide " Beriberi "). Treatment.—From our ignorance of the cause, treatment must be conducted simply on the general medical principles laid down in that article. Drowning'. See Asphyxia ; Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia) ; Memory in Health and Disease {Ilyiiernmesia). Drowsiness. See Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Ancemia) ; Brain, Surgery of {Cerebral Abscess, Droivsiness); Stojiach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomato- logy, Remote Symj^toms). Drug Eruptions. Introductory ..... 423 Types of Eruption .... 424 Etiology ...... 424 Differential Diagnosis .... 425 Treatment ...... 425 Drugs ....... 425 Antifebrin, Antipyrin, Argenti nitras. Arsenic, Belladonna, Benzoin, Boric acid, Bromides, Cannabis indica, Chloral hydras. Copaiba, Cubebs, Ergot, Iodides, Iodoform, Mercury, Morphin, Quinine, Salicylic acid, etc., Sul- phonal. Tar Antitoxin Rashes, etc. . . . .431 See also Belladonna ; Bromism ; Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata ; Pharmacology ; Purpura {Toxic) ; Rubella {Drug Rash) ; Toxicology ; and under some of the various Drugs themselves. That eruptions follow the external or the in- ternal use of drugs in certain classes of indi- viduals is a fact with which all dermatologists are familiar; but in the intensity of the reaction produced variations occur within wide limits, so that, in conjunction with the personal idiosyn- crasy, frequent modifications of type may be expected, and, indeed, are almost invariably found. In certain persons the exhibition of a given drug in any form acts as a poison, while in others, and probably the majority, no toxic eflects are produced; and it must be borne in mind in this connection that the occurrence of certain constitutional diseases modifies in a marked degree in many cases the action which occurs during administration, or even produces a sort of immunity—in other words, creates in the individual a certain tolerance which could not be acquired under the normal conditions of freedom from disease. This is best exemplified in the increased resisting power to the action of l)oth mercury and the salts of iodine shown by the vast majority of syphilitic patients. It is obvious, therefore, that in considering the general question of drug eruptions, two most important factors must be constantly borne in mind : first, the natural, or acquired, immunity enjoyed by certain individuals; and, secondly, the peculiar susceptibility from which other persons suffer— the cause in either case being equally undeter- mined and indeterminable. Drug eruptions are divided by natural lines into two great classes : (a) traumatic dermatoses, those produced by the action of irritant or poisonous substances coming in direct contact with the skin, which may be parasitic, animal, vegetable, or inorganic in nature; and (6) the toxic dermatoses, those cutaneous manifestations which follow in certain individuals the internal administration of various drugs. The former class will only be incidentally alluded to here, as it has been already dealt with {see " Dermatitis