DERMATITIS TRAUMATICA ET VENENATA IN COAL-MINERS 316 phalanx of the little finger, and another on the flexor and inner surfaces of the base of the thumb. (c) Pick - Shaft Callosities. — Every hewer shows a number of callosities on both hands pro- duced by the constant grasping of the pick-shaft whilst working. These vary in position accord- ing as the hewer is left- or right-handed, but only to a slight degree, as tiie miner may have to use his left hand most tlie one day and the right the next. B. Chemical Causes Division :— (1) Creosote Rash.—Props of wood are used to support the roof of the mine, and the process of placing these in their positions is called " timbeilug." The props themselves are soaked in preservative solution or solutions to protect them from fungi and moisture in the pit. I am iniable to give the composition of any of the preserving fluids — the formula; seem to be trade secrets ; but since the preparations smell vigorously of creosote, the rash is here termed the Creosote Rash. Miners are afraid of hand- ling too many " pickled props," which are black- stained and used for the dampest parts of the pit. One meets with the creosote rash usually in adolescents who have been engaged in hand- ling creosoted logs for several days in succession. The sites of predilection are the hands and wrists, face and neck. The rash makes its appearance in the form of a large number of small papules about the size of a pin's head, but gradually passes from this erythematous condi- tion through a vesicular stage into a pustular one. The pustules tend to burst, and the con- dition assumes the appearance of a pustular eczema. The dark - brown staining material contained in the preserving fluid may assist in the production of the creosote rash. As a complication of this affection I may mention conjunctivitis, both simple and purulent. This is produced by the pitman rubbing his eyes with his unwashed hands while at work or before he takes a bath. The treatment which yields the best results consists in bathing the affected parts with a solution of salicylate of soda (1 in 50) for fifteen minutes every morning, and following this up with a liberal application of boric acid ointment—the whole to be repeated at bedtime. This is assisted by a general tonic or salicylate of soda internally, the aff'ected parts being kept at rest as much as possible. The general symptoms accompanying the rash are briefly as follows :—Shivers, loss of appetite, headache, backache, malaise, and sickness. Papular rash appears when temperature is about lOr F. Temperature falls to about 99-5° F. when vesicular rash exhibits itself, and rises to 102-5'' F. or higher when the vesicles become pustular. It then gradually falls to the extent of one degree daily until it reaches normal. The skin shows no sign of pitting, and the vesicles are not umbilicated. (2) Water-Rash.—This eruption may be pres- ent on any part of the body, although it favours the hands, forearms and arms, face and neck, and the feet and legs. It occurs in those who do not handle props as well as in those who do, and simulates the creosote rash in many of its symptoms. It is apparently caused by the water in the pit, either by its dripping on the pitman whilst at work, or by his getting wet with water lying on the floor of the mine. The whole course of the disease, the rash especially, simulates smallpox. The rash is first papular, then vesicular, and finally pustular. Some of the pustules show distinct umbilication. The systemic disturbance is also similar to that of an infectious disease. Pit-water in percolating into the pit dissolves many irritating materials. In addition there is, comparatively speaking, a good deal of sulphuretted hydrogen and sulphur dioxide in the air of mines, and these when dis- solved in the water may act as factors of causa- tion, just as in the case of Delhi boils. The treatment consists in administering a good diaphoretic and diuretic mixture regularly. The diet should be light and non-stimulating, and the patient should be confined to bed. This rash seems to be a forerunner of the eczema of the feet and legs which one occasionally meets with in old miners. (3) Eczema of the Upper and Lower Ex- tremities.—This is an aggravating condition to cure. When fully developed it attacks both hands and wrists as well as the dorsum of each foot, and it may be that even the legs are in- cluded. The skin peels off in large flakes from the palms of the hands, and fissures usually extending down to the true skin luake their un- welcome appearance. Both hands"suff"er equally. The condition is a very serious one to the miner, causing him much pain and anxiety through loss of working-time. Undoubtedly one can remove the disease by removing the cause in time, but pitmen show no delight in changing their occupation imless really compelled to do so from the severity of the skin lesion. One must therefore adopt the principle of trying to avoid depriving the skin of its natural lubricant, atid to supply a substitute where the lubricating material is deficient. The handling of props ought to be discontinued therefore, and carbolic oil (1 in 40) should be energetically rubbed in night and morning. Lead and opium lotion gives relief, as also an ointment consisting of am- moniated mercury and oxide of zinc. Despite all kinds of treatment, however, the disease may remain perfectly incurable. Derma.tobia..—A bot-fly, found in Cen- tral America, which deposits its eggs in the skin and causes boil-like swellings {cutaneous myiasis). Derma.tol.—Subgallate of bismuth, a dusting powder and an antiseptic; used also in diarrhoea.