BURIAL-PLACES 34 three feet that of a child under twelve years. Wicker-work or light wooden coffins are better than heavy wooden or leaden ones, for they permit a more rapid dissolution of the body. A foot of earth must separate two coffins in one grave ; and no unwalled grave shall be reopened within fourteen years after the burial of a person above twelve years of age or within eight years after the burial of a child under twelve years of age, except to bury another member of the same family. Since it is undesirable and may be dangerous for dead bodies to remain awaiting burial in the living-rooms of the poor, it is desirable that all towns should be provided with Mortuaries. The Acts of Parliament regarding burial- places (for England, Wales, and London) are the Burial Act (1853), the Public Health Act (1875), the Public Health (Interment) Act (1879), and the Disused Burial Grounds Act (1884). For Scotland there are the Burial Ground (Scotland) Act (1885), and the Public Health (Scotland) Act (1897). If vaults are used at all they must be enclosed with walls of brick or stone solidly put together with good mortar or cement; they must not be disturbed. Vault burial, however, is not to be recommended. A grave which is walled with brick or stone work is regarded as a vault. Burking'. — The murdering (usually by smothering) of individuals in order to sell their bodies for purposes of dissection. The name took its origin in connection with the notori- ous Burke and Hare case, or the West Port murderers of Edinburgh, in 1828. Burmese Ringworm.— Tropical ringworm or Dhobie's itch. See Skin Diseases OF THE Tropics {Caused by Vegetable Parasites). Burnett's Fluid.—A solution of zinc chloride, having a sp. gr. of 2-0, used as a domestic antiseptic. Burns and Scalds. Definitions ...... 34 Causes ....... 34 Risks 34 Classification ..... 35 Clinical Features ..... 35 General Phenomena . . . .35 Local Phenomena . . . .35 Pathology op Burns . . . .36 Treatment ...... 37 Medico-Legal Aspects .... 39 See also Deformities {Cluh-Foot, Acquired); Eyeball, Injuries of {By Heat); Gangrene {Burns); Groin {Injuries of, Burns); Medicine, Forensic {Burns); Radium ; Skin Grafting ; Temperature {Depression); X-Rays. The term Burn is applied to the injury result- ing from the application of dry heat to the tissues of the body ; while the damage done by moist heat is usually spoken of as a Scald. The distinction is unimportant, as the essential characters of the lesions produced by the two forms of heat are for all practical purposes the same ; and conditions almost identical frequently result from the application of such strong caustic substances as fuming nitric acid, caustic potash, nitrate of silver, or arsenical paste. Causes.—Fire and steam play such an import- ant part in everyday life and work that the accidents producing burns and scalds are infinite in their variety. Among the commonest are the ignition of clothes, especially those of women and children, the bursting of paraffin or other lamps, the spilling of hot fluids, molten metal, or boiling oils, explosions of gas or gun- powder, and the escape of steam in boiler explosions. Severe burns sometimes follow the application of very hot poultices to young and debilitated children. Such substances as hot solids, molten metal, and strong caustics are local in their action, and produce burns which, although deep, are limited in extent. Flames, exploding gases, and vapours, on the other hand, occasion more widespread injury to tissues, but the damage is comparatively superficial. Their risk, however, is accentuated by the inhalation of poisonous fumes or solid particles of carbon and dust into the air-passages and lungs. Scalds resulting from boiling water or steam are less severe locally than those caused by boiling oils or saline fluids; but the inhala- tion of steam into the air-passages introduces additional risks in the form of oedema glottidis, bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia, complications which may also follow burns of the mouth or pharynx resulting from drinking very hot fluids or caustic substances. Since electricity has come to assume such a prominent place in industrial undertakings, a distinct form of burning has been recognised. Mery and Doubousquet-Laborderie have studied this variety of burns, and have formulated the following propositions regarding them: (1) They may be superficial or deep ; (2) they are not painful; (3) they are not accompanied by fever, or followed by any constitutional disturbance; (4) being asej^tic they do not tend to suppurate; and (5) they cicatrise quickly and well. Risks.—The main factors upon which the risk of a burn depends are—(1) Its extent. It has been shown that burns implicating from one- half to two-thirds of the entire surface of the body are almost invariably fatal. (2) Its situation. Burns over the serous cavities of the body — abdomen, thorax, or skull — are, ceteris paribus, much more dangerous than those on the limbs. (3) The age of the patient. Although young children succumb to the shock of severe burns more readily than adults, they appear to withstand prolonged