405 DISEASE Weil's (Epidemic Catan-hal Jaundice), Werlhuf's (Piirpura H;cmorrhagica), Wkytt's (Hydro- cephalus), Wilson's (Generalised Exfoliative Dermatitis), Winckel's (Epidemic Hiumoglobin- iiria Neonatorum), Woillezs (Primary Congestion of the Lungs). Disinfection. I. Ways and Means of Infectiox . 405 A. Ways of Ingress. . . . 405 B. Ways of Egress .... 405 C. Periods of Incubation and In fectivity 406 II. Disinfection and Disinfectants . 407 General ..... 407 Special 407 Heat 408 Chemical Disinfectants—• Oxygens, Halogens, Oxides of Nitrogen, Alkalies, Acids, Metal- lic Salts, Phenols, Formic Alde- hyd 408 III. Practical Disinfection . . 410 General . . . . . 410 Special . . . . . . 411 See also Aseptic Treat.ment of Wounds ; Antiseptic Surgery and Antiseptics ; Cholera, Epidemic (Proiihylaxis); Glanders {Preven- tion) ; Quarantine ; Sewage and Drainage ; etc. I. Ways and Means of Infection (A) Ways of Pup-ess. — Infectious diseases may be communicated by inoculation, by con- tact or association with the sick; by vehicles, as excreta or water, etc., or clothing and other articles contaminated therewith, and containing or conveying the microbes or their spores; by the bites, etc., of insects, and by residence in infected localities. The modes of ingress of the mici'obcs into the fluids of the body may be distinguished as (1) inoculation ; (2) absorption ; (3) inhalation ; and (4) ingestion. Some diseases ai'e received by one, others by two or more of these means, and that witli equal or unequal frequency. Inoculation and absorption being closely allied, a poison certainly iiioculable is probably capable of absorption by an unbroken mucous surface. 1. Inoculation. — The contagia of rabies (as hydrophobia), glanders, anthrax, and vaccinia; the extra-corporeal contagia of tetanus, ery- sipelas, and septicaemia ; and the intra-corporeal leprosy are usually thus received, while an abrasion greatly facilitates the infection of syphilis, chancre, and gonorrha^a. Under excep- tional circumstances others may be inoculated, as smallpox, diphtheria, and tuberculosis. 2. Absorption by mucous surfaces is the rule with venereal diseases and with puerperal septic- anuia. Ophthalmia is the infection of the conjunctiva with the purulent discharge from other cases; in glanders and diphtheria the microbes are arrested on the nasal, pharyngeal, or laryngeal mucous surfaces, and the bronchi rarely involved, except secondarily by extension. Diphtheria, measles, scarlatina, etc., are easily absorbed from infected pocket - handkerchiefs and like articles. 3. Inhalation is, however, the most frequent means of communication of all the non-recurrent intra-corporeal contagia, viz. variola and vari- cella, typhus and plague, measles and rubella (rtitheln), whooping-cough and mumps, as well as of yellow and relapsing fever and some others; also of tuberculosis of the lungs and cervical glands, contagious pneumonia, epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis, influenza, and diph- theria. Enteric fever is, though rarely, and cholera may possibly be, thus received, and it has hitherto been universally believed that malarial fevers are conveyed aeriall}', though mosquitoes are now held to l>e the principal means. 4. Ingestion is certainly the rule with enteric fever, cholera, dysentery, and some forms of diarrhoea, water or foods specifically contami- nated being the cause of epidemic outbreaks, and eating with hands soiled with fteces, of the personal communication of the disease. The milk of tuberculous cows is the chief cause of infantile tuberculosis, intestinal, meningeal, vertebral, etc. Foot-and-mouth disease of cows is communicated to man by their milk. Scar- latina, enteric fever, and diphtheria may also be conveyed by milk as a vehicle, there being no better culture fluid for most bacteria. Lastly, the imperfectly cooked flesh of tuberculous animals may be a means of infection. 5. Insects. — Flies play a more important part in conveying infection than is conmionly supposed. They carry infective matter on their feet and trunks from the sick to the sound and to articles of food; while quite recently a mass of evidence has been accumulating to prove that mosquitoes, i.e. gnats, of certain species, are the actual vehicles of malarial poisoning, the plasmodia or hamiatozoa of these fevers swarming in the fluids of their bodies, and being inoculated by their bites into the human blood. Dogs and cats may convey infection in their coats, as huiiian beings in their clothes, but cats are themselves susceptible of diphtheria, which they may thus communicate direct from one child to another. (B) Ways of Egress.—All pathogenic microbes leave the bodies of the sick by one or more ways, the chief of which are (a) the mucus secreted by the respiratory passages, throat, and mouth; {h) the intestinal evacuations; (c) the urine; and ((/) the serous and purulent contents of vesicles and pustules, and possibly detached epithelium. The first-named is specially important in relation to scarlet fever and measles, and is probably the main source of the infection which not infrequently occurs