EAE: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUELS 500 sinus, the roof of the middle ear, the roof of the mastoid antrum, the pars promontoria, and the bony capsule of the facial nerve. The osseous partitions separating the various mastoid cells from one another become gradually disintegrated, with the result that cavities of varying size form within the mastoid process full of purulent debris, granulation tissue, and cholesteatomatous material. In other cases, however, instead of a rarefying osteitis taking place, a condensing osteitis may ensue, with the result that the individual mastoid cells become obliterated, a mass of dense ivory-like bone being formed. The subjective symptoms of the presence of caries or necrosis within the mastoid process are comparatively unimportant. Occasionally pain may be complained of, especially when an acute pathogenic infection is grafted upon an already existing chronic process, or where as the result of osseous erosion some intracranial complication is set up. As a result of the presence of a sequestrum, or as the result of the presence of caries of the labyrinthine walls, tinnitus and vertigo may be complained of. The objective appearances are, however, very important, and consist in the presence of (1) a more or less copious discharge, usually very foetid, occasionally blood-stained, and frequently containing small spicules of disintegrated bone ; (2) granulation-tissue masses, which when re- moved are prone to recur; (3) enlarged peri- auricular lymphatic glands; and (4) the frequent presence of facial paralysis. A diagnosis of deep-seated caries or necrosis may be made by ocular inspection or by palpa- tion with a suitable probe. Occasionally a positive diagnosis is impossible, but the pre- sumption is in favour of the existence of bone disease when in a chronic case continuous anti- septic cleansing of the part fails to arrest dis- charge and foetor. By means of a probe carious foci may be felt. The sensation imparted is that of roughness, combined with a certain degree of softness. Where definite sequestra exist they may be felt to be mobile. Treatment. — Thorough cleansing of the dis- eased areas is imperative, but it is not by any means always attainable without recourse to operative measures. Where the external meatus is stenosed owing to disease of its posterior wall, with infiltration of the soft tissues, specially fine syringes may be required for irrigation purposes, or it may be necessary to dilate the canal by means of cylinders of wool soaked in acetate of lead solution or rubber tubes of gradually in- creasing calibre. Tufts of exuberant granula- tion tissue growing from carious foci should be scraped away so as to allow of remedial agents acting upon the underlying disease. Sequestra when sufficiently mobile should be removed by forceps or scoops. The main indications for opening the mastoid process when affected by chronic inflammatory disease may be summarised as follows :—- (1) In cases where caries of the tympanic walls exists. (2) When recurring attacks of mastoiditis are present, especially if complicated by the presence of a mastoid fistula. (3) When a mastoid fistula is present leading down to carious bone. (4) In cases of cholesteatomata. (5) In cases of hyperostotic stenosis of the external auditory meatus. (6) In cases of obstinate mastoid neuralgia (the removal of a wedge of bone is usually sufficient in these cases). (7) In cases of tuberculosis of the middle ear or mastoid process. (8) In cases of protracted and foetid suppura- tive inflammation of the middle ear which have resisted the oi'dinary methods of local treatment. This indication has led of late to much serious discussion, many eminent authorities claiming that protracted suppuration per se is not a sufficient indication for operation in the absence of urgent symptoms. Professor Macewen regards the operation of opening the mastoid as the safest and the most efficient method of eradicat- ing otherwise persistent purulent otitis media. (9) In all cases of suspected intracranial sup- puration the mastoid antrum should be opened as the first step in the operation. The methods of operation most frequently in use are those designed by Schwartze and Stacke. A combination of the two mentioned known as the Schwartze-Stacke operation has been much in vogue of late years, and has yielded when properly performed very gratifying results. Preparation of Patient.—By means of a dose of aperient medicine the bowels are well opened the day prior to the operation. Prepjaration of Operation Field. — The hair for several inches round the affected mastoid should be shaved, the skin well washed with soap and water, rubbed with turpentine, and finally with sulphuric ether. The external auditory meatus should be well syringed with warm carbolic lotion (1-20) or corrosive sub- limate solution (1-2000), and packed with iodo- form or double cyanide gauze. A pad of lint soaked in carbolic lotion (1-40) and covered by mackintosh should be fixed over the head and kept in situ for some hours previous to the operation. Prepjaration of Instruments.—All instruments to be used during the operation should be rendered aseptic by previous boiling, and should be left soaking in weak carbolic lotion or in a solution of formalin for a few hours prior to being used. The hands of the operator and his assistants should be well washed, rubbed with turpentine, and dipped for a few moments in some warm antiseptic solution.