COMITIALIS MORBUS 201 Comitialis Morbus. —Epilepsy; so called because if a case of epilepsy occurred during the sittings of the Roman C'omitia, there was an adjournment of the assembly, for this disease was regarded as a punishment sent by the gods. Comma Bacillus.—-See Cholera, Epi- demic (bacteriology); Micro-Organisms. Comma Tract of Schultze.—A tract of fibres in the posterior colunms of the spinal cord in the cervical and upper dorsal regions; it lies between the columns of GoU and l^urdach. Commensalism. — Symbiosis or the commensal state is that in which two animals, or plants, live together, the one as the tenant {but not as a parasite) of the other. It is derived from Latin con, together, and mensa, a table. Comminution. —The breaking of a solid body (e.//. a bone) into several small pieces {e.g. a comminuted fracture). Commissural Aphasia.~Aphasia ■due to destruction or interruption of the con- necting fibres between the different speech centres. See Aphasia {Clinical Features, Coni- m issii ral Apha s ia). Commissure.—A joining or juncture, the line where two structures meet, or a con- necting band or bundle (e.g. the anterior com- missure of the vulva, the commissure of the eyelids, and the posterior commissiire of the spinal cord). Common Lodgfingf-Houses. See I>()1)(;1N(!-1I()USES. Commotio. See Concussion. Communicated Insanity.—The rare cases in which there is evidence that an insane person has been the cause of a similar kind of insanity in a pi'eviously sane person; folic a deux ; double or induced insanity. Compatibility. See Prescribing. Compensation. See Heart, Myo- cardium AM) Endocardium {Physical Signs of Different Forms of Heart Disease); Spine, Surgi- cal Affections of {Railway Spine, Comjxnsa- tion). Complement.—A soluble ferment whicli the pliagocytes secrete during intracellular digestion ; an alexin ; a cytase ; the other body which helps the anti-body to act on the micro- organism. See Immunity ; Physiology, Internal Secri<;tions {Toxic Actions and Immunity). Complementai Air. Physiology, Respiration {Amount of Air Resjiired); Respira- tion {Respiratory INtythm and Rate). Complexion. See Chlorosis (Symp- toms) ; Scurvy in Adults (Clinical Features). Complication.—A morbid state which arises coincidently with another disease and which is regarded as "complicating" it and modifying its course (usually in the direction of making the prognosis worse); but no hard and fast line can be drawn Ijetwecn true complica- tions (accidental occurrences) and the occasional developments of a disease (e.g. nephritis in scarlet fever, dropsy in heart disease, etc.). Component. — An ingredient or con- stituent element, e.g. in a medical prescription. See Prescribing. Compos Mentis.—A Latin adjective phrase meaning with power over one's mind, in one's right senses ; soundness of mind. Composite Portraiture.—A single portrait produced by combining, by superposing, those of two or more individuals ; in this way an average appearance or type may he obtained, e.g. to show the typical appearance of a tubercular subject (habitus phthisicus). Com positor's Disease. See Trades, Dangerous (Lead Poisoning); Toxicology (Irri- tants, Lead). Compress.—A pad of lint or cloth so folded and arranged as to make pressure on a part or to apply water or some medicinal sub- stance to the surface of the body ; a graduated. compress is one made narrower and thicker at the point where pressure is specially required. Compressed Air Disease. See Caisson Disease ; Spine, Surgical Affections OF (Caisson Disease). Compression. See Aneurysm (Treat- ment, Digital and Instrumental Compression). Compression of the Brain.—The morbid state, due to j^ressure on the brain of a tumour, a depressed piece of bone, or a blood clot, in which there are unconsciousness, stertorous breathing, dilatation of the pupils, and paralysis. See Brain, Surgery of (Compression); Spine, Surgical Affections of (Compressioii Para- 2ylegia); Unconsciousness (Concussion, and Compression). ConcatO'S Disease.—General ciironic inflammation of the serous membranes (peri- toneal, pleural, pericardial, etc.) : polyorrho- nienitis or polyserositis. Concealment of Birth (of Pregnancy). See Medicine, Forensic (Infiinticidc). Conception.—The act of conceiving or of becoming pregnant; also the thing conceived, viz. the ovum, embryo, and fatus. A false con-