DIGESTION AND METABOLISM 374 made up of the following factors:—(1) free hydrochloric acid, (2) combined hydi'ochloric acid, (3) acid salts, and (4) organic acids. The quantity of organic acids present is usually so small that it may be neglected. A method for the estimation of the most important one of these, namely, lactic acid, has already been given. For methods of estimating the other organic acids see "Literature." Probably the simplest and yet accurate method of estimating the free hydrochloric acid is Fleiner's modification of that of Mintz. To 10 cc. of the gastric filtrate placed in a beaker are added about twenty-five drops of Giinzburg's reagent. A drop of the mixture is cautiously evaporated to dryness over the open flame. A carmine-red residue indicates the presence of free hydrochloric acid. For the quantitative estimation of the free mineral acid decinormal caustic soda is gradually added from a burette until a drop or two of the mixture yields no red residue on heating. After making a preliminary estimation a second one shoiild always be performed, xising the result of the first as a guide. The number of cc. of deci- normal caustic soda used indicates the quantity of free hydrochloric acid expressed as so many cc. of a decinormal hydrochloric acid solution. The percentage of hydrochloric acid is obtained by multiplying this result by -00365. Although this is always given as a method for the estima- tion of the free HCl alone, it is doubtful whether, after all, some at least of the combined HCl is not also estimated. The acidity due to acid salts may be estimated by Leo's method. 10 cc. of the gastric filtrate are mixed with 5 cc. of a saturated solution of calcium chloride, and the fluid titrated with decinormal caustic soda in precisely the same manner as already described mider estimation of the total acidity. To 15 cc. of the gastric filtrate is then added 1 gm. of finely powdered pure calcium carbonate. The mixture is thoroughly shaken, and then filtered through a previously dry filter into a well- dried beaker. Calcium chloride, acid phosphate, theexcessof calcium carbonate, and carbondioxide are present in the filtrate. The carbon dioxide is removed by passing a stream of air through the fluid by means of a hand bellows connected with a fine glass tube dipping into the fluid, or by means of an aspirator. 10 cc. of the filtrate, now freed from carbon dioxide, are accurately measured out, mixed with 5 cc. of a saturated solution of calcium chloride, and titrated with decinormal caustic soda as before. The latter result gives the acidity alone due to acid salts. The former result gives the total acidity. A few words are necessary to explain the principles upon which Leo's method is based. Solutions of free acids on being shaken with calcium carbonate in the cold are completely neutralised, while fluids containing acid {i.e. dihydi'ogen) phosphates after similar treatment retain their acid reaction. In a mixture, of free acids and acid phosphates, one can therefore exclude the acidity due to free acids by the addition of calcium carbonate, and then estimate in the filtrate the acidity due to acid phosphates. The soluble calcium salts which are formed by the interaction of calcium carbonate with the free acids present (chiefly hydrochloric) react with sodium dihydrogen phosphate to form sodium chloride and calcium dihydrogei:i jihos- phate. One then estimates the acidity of the latter salt, which requires twice as much caiistic soda to convert it into the neutral calcium phosphate as is necessary for the neutralisation of the corresponding acid phosphates of sodium and potassium. The following equations will help to render the matter clear :—2NaH2PO^ + 2NaOH = 2Na.,HP0^ + H„0; whereas 2NaH,P0^ -I- 4NaOH + 3CaCl, = Ca/PO.,). + 6NaCl + mf>. To overcome this difficulty, one of two ex- pedients may be employed. The total acidity may be estimated in the usual way without the addition of calcium chloride. The second titra- tion may be carried out exactly as before. The number of cc. of caustic soda used in the second titration would, however, require to be divided by two. This division l)y two becomes un- necessary if both estimations are performed under the same conditions, namely, the addition of excess of calcium chloride. Since the second method is the simpler,, it is almost invariably employed. The total quantity of hydi'ochloric acid—free and combined—is easily ascertained from the results already given. It is equivalent to the total acidity minus that due to acid phosphates and lactic acid if present. For the estimation of the total " physiologi- cally active " hydrochloric acid (free and com- bined) niimerous other methods have been employed; of these Martins and Liittke's ap- pears to be the most accurate. As the method, however, is somewhat too complex for clinical use, a brief sketch of the principles upon which it is foimded must here suffice. The total chlorides in 10 cc. of the gastric filtrate are first estimated as in the lu-ine by Volhard's method. The quantity of chlorine in the ash of another 10 cc. is then estimated and reckoned in terms of hydrochloric acid. By subtracting the latter result from the former, one obtains the chlorine present as free and combined hydro- chloric acid. The loosely combined hydrochloric acid is equivalent to the total acidity minus that due to acid phosphates, free hydrochloric acid, and lactic acid if present. The combined hydro- chloric acid is in loose imion with amido-acids, albumoses, and peptones. The total hydrochloric acid is sometimes termed the "physiologically active " acid, because the loosely combined is as important in peptic digestion as the free.