477 EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF In the eczematous form of inflammation, when the walls of the canal are thickened, and in the dry scaly condition, elongated plugs of cotton smeared with an ointment such as the following — Hydrarg. oxid. rub., hydrarg. ammoniat. iia gi-. vj., adipis benzoat. sj., ol. oliva3 opt. M.—should be inserted twice a day, so as not only to stimulate absorption, but also to exercise a certain degree of pressure. In the more persistent forms of thickening, a strong solution of nitrate of [silver (40 grains to the ounce of water) should be painted over the walls of the meatus twice a week, for several weeks. After each application a ball of cotton, soaked in a solution of common salt, is applied for a few seconds to the orifice of the ear to prevent blackening of the skin. In the dry scaly form, without stenosis but with trouble- some itching, we should use, in addition to the foregoing treatment, the following : — R Acidi carbolici gr. v., spirit, rectif. 3ij-) glycerini 3ij- Sig. — For jjainting external meatus twice daily. If the inflammation be of a specific natiu'e, general anti - syphilitic treatment should be employed. The condylomata may be cut off with scissors, and chromic acid then applied. Occasional dusting with calomel powder will also prove useful. An ointment, containing 10 grains of iodoform to an ounce of vaseline, may sometimes be applied with advantage. In the treatment of the parasitic form, the efiectivc use of the syringe, with a 2 per cent solution of boracic or carbolic acid, as already mentioned, may have to be repeated several times before the masses can be removed, and the aid of forceps may be necessary. Some decided parasiticide, such as rectified spirit or an alcoholic solutionof bichlorideof mercury (1 grain to the oimce of rectified spirit), twice a day for a week, may be required to prevent recurrence. Such solutions, after being poured into the ear, should be allowed to remain there for five minutes. AVhile local treatment is of first importance in these inflammations of the external meatus, general treatment, especially in the chronic forms, contributes to recovery, such as the use of iron, cod-liver oil, nutritious food, abundance of fresh open air, etc.; anti-syphilitic remedies in specific cases; arsenic in eczematous cases; alkalies and aperients in gouty conditions. 5. Caries and Necrosis op the External Meatus.—While caries and necrosis may occur primarily from inflammation of the osseous part of the meatus, it is important to remember that bony affections of the meatus are usually part of a purulent middle ear disease, especially affecting the posterior wall through the prox- imity of the mastoid antrum and cells. In such cases the upper and back wall may be first seen to bulge, owing to pus forming under the skin and periosteum. The bone forming the outer wall of the attic of the tympanum is not in- frequently involved, leading to exposure of the head and neck of the malleus. In caries and necrosis there is a purulent, often sanious, discharge from the ear, and exuberant granula- tions spring from the seat of the diseased bone, which bleed readily when touched. These may fill the canal of the ear, and they recur after removal. There are often other manifest evi- dences of mastoid and tympanic disease. A probe may show bare firm bone, especially on the back wall; at other times there is a movable sequestrum; or the probe may pass through a carious aperture into the cells behind. Treatment of Caries and Necrosis.—X soft bulging in the upper and back part of the canal may first require to be incised, when caries or necrosis of the bone beneath may be found. In the case of a movable sequestrum, syringing may be sufficient to remove it; failing that, a pair of strong forceps must be employed, while the 23atient is under chloroform. A long-jDointed sequestrum, fixed transversely in the meatus, may require to be broken before removal. Sequestra of considerable size, usually coming from the mastoid wall, are often removed from the meatus. One or more necrotic ossicles may also escape, or be removed from the meatus. Care must be taken, after the removal of a sequestrum, to j)revent stenosis, by plugging with narrow strips of iodoform gauze. In many cases caries or necrosis of the postero-superior wall of the meatus can only be dealt with efficiently by operating through the mastoid. It may then be found that the postero-superior wall of the meatus has been already destroyed by caries or necrosis, or the operative treatment may necessitate the removal of that part of the meatus. Where the middle ear spaces are really the sources of the mischief, the thorough treat- ment of the purulent middle ear disease must be resorted to. This will be found described in the article on purulent disease of the middle ear. A superficial carious spot can be safely and successfully curetted by a small sharp spoon, and the operation should be followed by the application of iodoform and boracic acid, one of the former to three of the latter. Any consti- tutional defect or cachexia must be treated by appropriate remedies. 6. Stenosis of the Meatus—(a) Stenosis from Malformation.—The orifice of the ear may be reduced to a mere slit, from the approximation of the anterior to the posterior wall, due to an over-flaccid state of the fibrous tissue and skin in old persons. If this interferes with hearing, a small silver tube, having the shape of an ear speculum, may be kept in the ear during the waking hours. Congenital malformation is, however, more important, when it is usually found in connection with a congenital defect of the auricle, the meatus being at the same time absent or represented by an indentation, or a small canal terminating in a cul-de-sac. There are also usually in such cases congenital defects