CHLOROSIS 114 marrow with the same rapidity or vigour as the inorganic salts, and many of them have the further disadvantage that they contain so small an amount of iron that enormous doses would have to be taken to make up the necessary minimum daily dose, which is from O'l to 0-2 grammes of metallic iron. Of the inorganic salts, which we now know can be absorbed, the one which is most used is the carbonate, in the form of Blaud's pill or capsiiles, or as the saccharated carbonate. It is not astringent, and is generally well taken. The proto-sulphate and the ferric salts are astringent, and cannot usually be taken by people with irritable stomachs, but where the digestion is good they are often very useful. Best of all, perhaps, is reduced iron, provided it does not contain sul- phur as an impurity ; when it is dissolved in the gastric juice hydi'ogen is evolved, and if sulphur be present, unpleasant eructations of sulphui'- etted hydrogen result. Its small dose is an advantage. The scale preparations are some- times useful with dyspeptics, as they are easily taken, but they contain a relatively small amount of iron. The dosage should be carefully regulated. Blaud's pill may be taken as a standard, and of these six a day, two after each meal, should at first be given. After three or four days or a week the number may be doubled, if there is no increase of gastric disturbance, and after another week the number may again be increased. It is rarely necessary to give more than from 20 to 24 pills a day, but the maximum, when once reached, should be persevered with for some weeks, and the dose then gradually decreased for a fortnight before leaving off altogether. The length of time during which the iron is to be taken varies in different cases, and should be determined by the effect on the blood. As long as the liEemoglobin percentage improves the iron should be continued, but if it becomes stationary it is best to stop the iron, let the patient go without any for from two to four weeks, and then begin again in the same way. It is gener- ally a mistake to let a patient go on taking iron indefinitely, as the system becomes habitu- ated to its use, and if a relapse occurs treatment is not so effectual. Iron must always be given after food; no matter what form is taken, it must be taken regularly and without interrup- tions, and as the dyspepsia of chlorotics is usually due to their anaemia, iron should be given even though the patient complains of slight dyspeptic symptoms. It may sometimes be necessary to give a bitter tonic, or some such remedy as bis- muth, rhubarb, and soda before food for a few days, while the iron is being given, and it is often wise to begin treatment with a purge. In cases where the iron is apparently doing no good it is well to see that the preparation which is being taken is really active, to see, for instance, that the pills are soluble, or to change the preparation. Chalybeate waters are some- times useful in such cases, or arsenic may be tried along with or instead of the iron. It is most likely to be useful in cases where the number of blood corpuscles is greatly reduced, and it must be given at first in small doses and gradually increased. Blood-letting has been used as a means of treatment, and might be tried in those very chronic cases where drugs are not very successful. Haemorrhage is a powerful stimulant to the marrow, and may give the necessary fillip to blood regeneration which can then be maintained by iron. About four ounces of blood might be drawn. Treatment should in all cases be continued until the normal haemoglobin percentage is reached, and it must be remembered that patients often recover a healthy appearance long before this result is attained. Ch lorOSa—A preparation resembling chlor- ide of lime (bleacliing-powder), used as a disin- fectant ; it contains 10 per cent of available chlorine. ChlOfOZOne.—A yellowish liquid acting as a bleaching agent and disinfectant; it is formed by passing nascent hydrogen (mixed with air) into caustic soda. Chloryl.—A mixture of methyl chloride and ethyl chloride ; a local anaesthetic. Choa.nse.—The posterior openings of the nares. See Nose, Examination, etc. ChOCOla.te.—Ground cocoa, with sugar, etc., added, and with some of the fat removed. Like cheese, it contains much nutriment in small compass. See Diet {Fruit, Nuts). Choke Dam p. See Toxicology {Gaseous Poisons, Carbon Dioxide). Choked Disc.—Projection of the optic papilla above the level of the retina (as seen by the ophthalmoscope), with extension and blurring of its border, and increased vascularity, due to increased intracranial pressure (cerebral tumour, nephritis); marked " papillitis." See Retina AND Optic Nerve {Optic Nerve, Inflammation). Choking^. See Asphyxia {Causes); Medi- cine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia, Suffoca- tion) ; OESOPHAGUS {Foreign Bodies). Cholsemia..—The presence, in excessive amount, of bile in the blood; jaundice. See Jaundice {Pathology). Chola.g'Og'UeS. — A class of medicinal substances, including podophylkim, euonymin, iridin, sodium salicylate, mercury (calomel), colchicum, and most of the cathartic purgatives ; they act either directly by increasing the secre- tion of bile, or indirectly by stimulating the