104 CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF cream in the food, and they become fewer and more solid if the cream is lessened or the casein increased. The colour depends for its shade largely on the percentage of fat, being lighter if this is small in amomit. The darkening of the fseces by bismuth and iron is to be remembered. The reaction may become alkaline from changes taking place in the incompletely digested pro- teids. The addition of beef-tea or raw-meat juice to the diet of a milk-fed baby causes the faeces to acquire an ofiensive odour. By the end of the first dentition the motions have assumed a brownish colour, and are usually formed. Abnormal Faeces.—The appearance, reaction, and other characters of the motions may be greatly changed by disease (.see " Gastro-Intes- tinal Disorders of Infancy"). When a large amount of mucus is recognisable by the naked eye in the motions, it generally indicates disease of the large intestine. Pus is found in the stools in cases of ulcera- tion of the bowel, and also in severe catarrh. Blood is passed under a great variety of con- ditions. When pure blood comes in any quantity from a child's bowel, apart from diarrhoea or ulceration, it generally comes from a rectal polypus. In young infants the presence of a small amount of blood in the motions is often due to an anal fissure. Copious haemorrhage from the stomach and bowel in new-born chil- dren (melsena neonatorum) is fortunately rare, but it is comparatively common to meet with cases of spurious melsena in which blood which has come from the nose or elsewhere has been swallowed and has been passed with the motions. Fragments of membrane are found in the stools in dysentery and in croupous enteritis. Worms and their ova are often present, and foreign bodies such as earth, sand, stones, etc., may be found in the case of children who suffer from pica. The Circulatory System.—The Pulse.—The following may be given as the average pulse- rate in healthy children at different ages during sleep or perfect quiet:—At birth, 140 to 120 per minute; 6 to 12 months, 115 to 105 per minute; 2 to 6 years, 105 to 90 per minute; 11 to 14 years, 85 to 75 per minute. Mental emotion and bodily exercise may quicken the pulse as much as twenty or thirty beats in the minute ; hence the great importance of counting it when the child is undisturbed. While the pulse-rate itself is often of little significance, its ratio to the respiration - rate is always important. Irregularity of the pulse is not uncommon in children, and is generally of little importance. If, however, the pulse is slow as well as irregular, it is worthy of careful attention. Such a con- dition of pulse sometimes occurs after acute illness without any serious significance, but it is also a common early symptom of intracranial disease. The Heart.—The heart lies more horizontally in infancy than in later life, consequently the apex-beat in children under four years is gener- ally outside the nipple in the fourth intercostal space. The area of the deep, as well as that of the superficial cardiac dulness is relatively large in childhood. The normal heart-sounds in little children are peculiar in certain ways. The first sound is louder than the second in all the areas. The pulmonary second sound over the base is normally louder than the aortic. It is not to be regarded as accentuated unless it is found to be constantly louder than the first sounds over the base, when the child is at rest. Owing to the greater conductivity of the tissues the heart- sounds are heard more distinctly all over the thorax in young children than in adults. When heart-murmurs are found they may be functional in character, or due to congenital malformation or to the result of endocarditis. Functional heart-murmurs are very rare in young children ; those due to congenital malformations are, of course, much commoner than in later life. When valvular disease is present it is always of importance to ascertain, if possible, whether or not it is of rheumatic origin. For this purpose inquiry must be made as to former rheumatic manifestations, and the patient ex- amined for present signs of the disease, especially for rheumatic nodules. Respiratory System.—Inspection—Form of the Chest.—In the normal infant the chest is more cylindrical than in the adult, and its section is consequently more nearly circular in outline. Its shape is readily altered by any- thing that tends to soften the already soft chest- wall or to interfere with the free expansion of one or both lungs. The commonest alteration which we meet with is the deformity charac- teristic of rickets, but we also find various degrees of pigeon-breast, and occasionally, as in adults, unilateral retraction or distension, due to pulmonary or pleural disease or to spinal curvature. Noticeable enlargement of the superficial veins over the upper part of the chest is a common symptom of enlarged bronchial glands. Movements of the Chest.-—{a) Their CJiaracter. —The respiratory movements of the chest are slight in infants, because the type of respiration in them is almost entirely abdominal. Indraw- ing of the epigastrium and adjacent parts on inspiration indicates, with a normal chest, that sufficient air is not entering the lungs, and is an important sign. In broncho-pneumonia it helps us to gauge the extent to which the lung is affected, while in croup its presence to any marked degree is one of the main indications for immediate surgical assistance. If the chest is abnormally collapsible from rickets, this symptom may be present to a con-