CONSTIPATION 218 carefully inquired into. Foods made of the coarser grains, or in the preparation of which part at least of the more indigestible cellulose and fibre is retained, should be substituted for those of the finer sort. " Whole meal" porridge, oatcakes, and brown bread are usually easily taken, and the patient should be encouraged to eat the crust, and not merely the softer parts of the bread. Manypeople require syrup or treacle to their porridge, and these also are useful laxatives. Vegetables, by reason of the large proportion of cellulose and neutral salts they contain, are also very helpful, while the gases which some of them are apt to evolve still further stimulate intestinal peristalsis, though they may somewhat increase the patient's flatulent distension. Thus raw tomatoes, salad, or merely fresh lettuce should be recommended, and as a general rule the various vegetables in season should enter largely into the regular dietary. Similarly fruit, raw or cooked, should be utilised freely. An orange or a raw apple before breakfast is an efficient laxative to many, and the patient should be advised to see that fruit always forms a part of his daily dietary. The attraction which soft (non-laxative) milky foods have for those whose teeth have failed them must be counteracted by combining with these such fruits as stewed figs or prunes, apricots, etc., and if the fibres of these prove too tough for the patient's imperfect teeth artificial ones must be obtained. Fruits in the form of jams also are of advantage, and marmalade possesses marked laxative properties. Milk and milky foods should be sparingly used, and of these latter the coarser-grained varieties, e.g. sago or whole rice, are preferable to such as arrowroot and cornflour. Liquids.—The importance of attending to the question of the amount of liquid consumed by the patient can hardly be overestimated. Many people, especially women, seldom take a drink of water, tea—too often with a fairly strong propor- tion of astringent tannin in it—being almost their only beverage. A single tumblerful of water taken on an empty stomach on rising—or, if required, at bedtime also—will frequently, in conjunction with the other general directions mentioned, have the desired effect. If the patient perspires much he should be recommended to drink water still more freely, especially hetwem meals. Excessive " hardness " of the drinking- water from the presence of lime-salts must be remedied by boiling the water and filtering, or by the use of rain-water for cooking purposes as well as drinking. Coffee or cocoa is preferable to tea, contain- ing less of the astringent tannin, and malt liquors tend to be more laxative than spirituous liquors. Buttermilk may also be ordered as being more laxative than ordinary milk. Exercise.—The frequency of constipation in those of sedentary habits is well known, but the mere ordering of exercise is not enough. Care must be taken to see that the patient adopts some form of exercise likely to have a beneficial effect upon his abdominal muscles, and so on the underlying intestines. Thus riding on horse- back, cycling, golfing, tennis, and swimming are much more likely to benefit than merely walk- ing ; while special gymnastic exercises calculated to strengthen the abdominal muscles (often so feeble in females) are of the utmost value. One precaution, however, must be borne in mind. Should exercise, as in the case of some delicate women with pelvic disorders, give rise to pain, the constipation will probably be rather increased than diminished, the irritation inhibit- ing peristalsis apparently reflexly through the splanchnics. In such cases even moderate exercise may have to be prohibited, and (as afterwards referred to) an opiate may be required as a laxative. Massage, etc.—This is frequently of most service in those cases in which the beneficial forms of exercise cannot be carried out, viz. the elderly or the very young. Especially useful is regular systematic massage of the colon in the direction of peristalsis, cari'ied out by the patient himself or a trained attendant. Others have strongly recommended vibratioji as being a more potent and less dangerous mode of stimulating peristalsis in severe atonic cases. With this may be combined the use of cold compresses or cold douches to the abdomen, while in some obstinate cases beneficial results are obtained from the regular use of electricity to restore tone to the intestinal walls as well as the abdominal muscles. For this, special forms of electrical apparatus have been devised. Medicinal Remedies. — Should the various hygienic and dietetic measures above referred to fail to effect a cure of the condition, recourse must be had to medicinal remedies, but only as an adjuvant. The number of cathai'tic or laxative remedies is enormous; here only a few salient points will be referred to. (a) Enemas.—Where the constipation is of long standing, with an accumulation of hard scybalous masses in the rectum and sigmoid flexure, these should be softened by enemas of soapy water or olive oil and oxgall, while in severer cases it is sometimes necessary to break down the masses and remove them by means of a spoon handle, care being taken to see that the accumulation is thus thoroughly removed. Should some scybalous masses be lodged higher up in the intestine, large douches of warm water inserted by means of a long tube connected with a head of water should be persistently employed. It is well to remember that some writers have pointed out that, once this form of treatment has been begun, there is a risk of auto-intoxication— apparently from the liberation of toxines from the softened scybala—if the douches are not