GRISTS •254 {e.g. rapid defervescence in the course of a fever). See Lysis ; Pneumonia, Clinical {Clini- cal Features) ; Tabes Dorsalis [Symjitoma- tology: Urethral, Bladder, Re^ial, Gastric, In- testinal, and Rectal Crises); Temperature {Fever, Defervescence). Lumbar pain, in cases of mov- able kidney, has been termed Dietl's crisis (q.v.). Crispation. —FeeV)le muscular twitch- ings; the " fidgets " or " creeps." Crista. See Crest. Crocus.—Saffron or Crocus consists of the stigmata and styles of Crocus sativus, and contains crocin (a glucoside colouring matter) and a volatile oil; there is an official Tinctura Croci (dose, 5 to 15 m.), and its chief use is as a colouring matter {e.g. in Tinctura Cinchonte Composita). See Prescribing. Croft Spa. See Balneology (Great Britain, Yorkshire, Sulphur Waters). Crombie's Molar Ulcer.—An ulcer which forms between the last two teeth in the upper or lower jaw in the early stages of sprue. See Sprue {Clinical Features). Cross Birth. See Labour, Diagnosis AND Mechanism {Transverse Lies); Labour, Operations (Version). Crossed. — The name applied to some morbid state {e.g. paralysis) occurring in the opposite half of the body or of an organ to that in which the lesion producing it is. See Brain, Tumours op {Diagnosis, Regional, Pons); Hip- Joint Diseases {Bilateral, Crossed-Leg De- formity) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Parulysis, DmMe Vision). CrotalidSB.—The pitvij^ers. See Snake- Bites (Classification). Crotchet. — A sharp hook on a stem, passed inside the perforated skull of the foetus (in embryulcia) and used as an extractor; " crotchet cases " are craniotomy cases. See Labour, Operations {Embryotomy). Croton Oil. See also Dermatitis Trau- matica ET Venenata {Causal Age^its, Vegetable); Drug Eruptions {Types, Papular, Vesicular, and Pustular); Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Toxicology {Abortifacients).—A fixed oil ex- tracted from the seeds of Croton Tiglium. It is brownish in colour, has a faint rancid odour, and is intensely irritating. Dose—\-\ m. Preparation — Linimentum Crotonis. Exter- nally croton oil has been used as a counter- irritant in diseases of the chest and in joint affections, but it causes severe j^ustulation and even skin destruction, and is now seldom em- ployed. As a last resource it may be applied to destroy an obstinate patch of ringworm of the scalp. Internally it has a violent purgative action and is usually given on a lump of sugar or mixed with butter. It is recommended in apoplexy and other conditions in which the patient is unconscious and unable to swallow, but it is preferable in the majority of such cases to administer jalap or other common purgative through a tube passed into the cesophagvis. Croup.—The name given, somewhat loosely, to laryngitis with or without fibrinous effusion, as well as to spasm of the glottis. See Diph- theria ; Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflam- mations {Membranous Laryngitis). The term croupous may be used in the above senses ; it is sometimes employed also for any membranous exudation, diphtheritic or not. See Conjunc- tiva, Diseases of {Membranous Ophthalmia). CrOWborOUgfh. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English, Sussex). Crowning'.—The stage in labour when the vertex (or crown) of the head appears at the vulva, and is surrounded by the circle of soft parts (the labia and perineum) as by a crown. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Vertex Cases, Extension of Head). The covering of an old tooth with a gold or porcelain crown. See Teeth {Bridge and Bar Work). Crura. See Crus (plural, crura). CruS.—The leg or thigh or any leg-like structure. Thus crural phlegmasia is phleg- masia of the lower limb following thrombosis; the crura cerebri are the bundles of white sub- stance which form the peduncles of the cerebrum; so also in crura penis, crura clitoridis, crura cerebelli, crura diaphragmatica, etc. The crural angina of Walton is intermittent lameness due to arterio-sclerosis ; it is the dysbasia angio- sclerotica of Erb. Crusta.—A hard, dry formation forming an outer covering for the surface of the body, usually composed of the products of a skin disease ; a scab ; crusta lactea or " milk crust" is the scab often seen on the face of infants suffering from seborrhcea or eczema. Crutch. See Beinhalter. Cruveilhier'S Palsy. — Progressive muscular atrophy or poliomyelitis anterior chronica. See Paralysis {With Atrop)hy of Muscles). Cry.—As a sign of disease, more especially in young children, the cry has considerable dia- gnostic importance. See Children, Clinical Examination of {Respiiratory System, The Cry). The animal-like cry at the commencement of an epileptic fit {see Epilepsy, " Epileptic Cry " ; Hysteria, Diagnosis) is very characteristic; the