398 DIPHTHERIA previously washed and cleansed with some anti- septic solution. The most convenient form of syringe is Roux's. It can be readily taken to pieces and boiled to render it aseptic; it does not easily get out of order, and it has an in- genious device for tightening up or loosening the india-rubber plunger. In this country it is unnecessary to have the glass barrel or the piston-rod graduated, since the serum is given by the unit, and not by the cubic centimetre or minim. The needle is connected to the nozzle of the syringe by a piece of rubber tubing. Care should be taken not to inject air with the serum. All the parts of the syringe should be boiled immediately before use. After the injec- tion the small puncture made in the skin should be sealed with collodion. For cleansing the syringe after use cold water should be employed, for if the syringe be plunged into hot water the needle, tube, and nozzle will become blocked with coagulated serum, the removal of which will give much trouble. After-effects.^ — There are certain effects due to the serum with which it is necessary to be acquainted. The most common are erythe- matous rashes, iniiammation of or about joints, and abscess at the seat of injection. Rashes occur in from 30 to 45 per cent of the cases. The most frequent are erythema multiforme and urticaria. The rash usually appears seven to twelve days after the injection, but it may come out as early as the first day or as late as the third week. In many cases there are also febrile symptoms. The rash often commences at the seat of injection ; its duration varies from a few hours to several days. Arthritis and periarthritis occur in about 6 per cent of the cases. They come on about the same time as the rash. The knees, hips, shoulders, elbows, and wrists are most often affected, but any of the joints may be involved. The arthritis lasts from one to four days. It is usually accom- panied by one of the rashes above mentioned and pyrexia. Peri- or endocarditis does not occiu". In most cases there is no swelling of the joints, and pain is the only symptom. Very often the pain is more in the large fascife and tendons than the joints. An abscess at the site of injection usually means that the technique of administration has been faultily performed, pro- vided that the serum be sterile, as it should be. But possibly in some instances of mixed infec- tion {e.g. diphtheria and scarlet fever) the presence of septic micro-organisms in the blood determines the local suppuration. In very rare cases other sequelfe have been met with ; cedema of the scrotum with or without slight orchitis; and rigors, pyrexia, rapid pulse, and prostration coming on immediately after an injection, some- times with a rash. The cases of rigors, etc., observed by the writer have all occurred in patients treated a second time with antitoxin in ^ See "Drug Eruptions." a relapse or second attack of diphtheria. The rashes and joint-pains, but not the abscesses (which are caused by cocci), are due to the serum, and not to the antitoxic principle in it, for they can be produced by the injection of the serum of a normal non-immunised horse. Their occurrence is determined partly by the idiosyn- crasy of the patient, but mostly by that of the horse from which the serum has been obtained, for the frequency varies with different sera. Generally speaking, however, the larger the volume of serum injected the more likely is a rash or arthritis to occur. Therefore with con- centi'ated sera these troubles are usually at their minimum. In most of the cases they are trivial. It is possible that the serum also produces transient albuminuria, but it does not cause nephritis or suppression of urine. The writer has indeed on several occasions injected serum into patients, the subjects of acute or chronic nephritis, without any ill effects. Serum will remain efficient for several months, but it is advisable not to keep it for more than a few weeks, as there is reason to believe that in some instances the antitoxic value becomes lowered. It should be kept in a cool and dark place. Never keep a bottle of serum which has been uncorked. Local Treatment.—In addition to antitoxin local treatment is advisable in most cases, in order to remove the exudation and render clear the obstructed faucial and nasal passages. For this purpose the affected regions should be frequently flushed out with warm water, or a saturated solution of boracic acid, or the follow- ing solution; Sodii bicarb. 3j-) sodii bibor. oj-j sodii chlorid. 5ss., potassii chlorat. 3ss., tinct. lavand. comp. 7>j-, aq. ad Oj. The flushing out is best accomplished by means of a Higginson's or a ball syringe. But if, as is often the case, the child violently resists all attempts at local irrigation, it is advisable not to persist, for such attempts only exhaust the patient and do more harm than good. The use of solutions contain- ing such agents as chlorine, sulphurous or carbolic acid, which act as irritants to the mucous membranes, are, in the writer's opinion, undesirable, except in very foul and septic cases. The best local treatment for ocular, vulval, and cutaneous diphtheria is frequent irrigations and warm fomentations of boracic acid solution. When laryngeal symptoms arise, the patient should be placed in a room, or, if in a ward, a tent, in which the air is kept saturated with the warm vapour of water by a steam-kettle. In many cases the symptoms will, under the anti- toxin treatment, subside without any question of operative interference arising. But should there be cyanosis, restlessness, much recession of the chest-walls (which leads to pulmonary collapse), or frequently recurring acute attacks of dyspnoea, relief must be afforded by intuba- tion or tracheotomy.