85 CHEST, CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF THE in the two sexes. In the male it is aVidomino- thoracic, in the female thoracico-abdominal. In disease these types may be altered. When the action of the diaphragm and alxlominal muscles is interfered with, as in abdominal tumours, ascites, pain in the abdomen, the movements may be purely thoracic ; when there is mai-ked pleural pain the intercostal muscles may l)c more or less fixed, and the lireathing be abdominal. Pure abdominal breathing is seen in its fully developed form in paralysis of the intercostal muscles. Diminished local expansion is seen when one lung, or part of a lung, be- comes functionless, as in pleurisy with effusion, pneumonia, phthisis. 4. The extent of the chest movement has finally to be observed. In the characteristic "alar" and "barrel-shaped chest," previously described, the movements are very slight. Deficient ex- pansion or inspiration is an important diagnostic sign. When one side of the chest moves more markedly than the other we may find a pneu- monia, pleurisy, or tuberculous consolidation in the motionless side. The Circulatoyy 2Iovements.—The apex heat, a gentle pulsation visible and palpable in the fifth interspace internal to the mammary line, extending a single interspace vertically, laterally about one inch, regular in rhythm, and systolic in time, is in health the only cardiac movement visible in the chest. In disease it may be dis- placed from its normal position, the whole heart being displaced, as in pleurisy with effusion, when the heart is pushed to one or other side ; in ascites or abdominal tumour, when it is pushed upwards ; in emphysema and mediastinal tumour, when it may be pushed downwards. By far the most common cause of dislocation of the apex beat is, however, to be found in the heart itself. Marked displacement downwards and outwards is seen in hypertrophy and dila- tation of the left ventricle, as in aortic disease ; in liypertrophy and dilatation of the right ventricle the displacement is more outwards, less downwards ; in pericardial effusion there is an upward and slightly outward displacement. Besides the apex beat, other pulsations may be visible, thus in the third, fourth, and fifth inter- spaces to the left of the sternum when there is hypertrophy of the right ventricle, or when the chest-wall is thin and the lung retracted, as in fibroid phthisis, the pulsation of a normal right ventricle may be visible. Pulsation at the second and third right costal ca.rtilages may be seen in aneurism of the aorta. In retraction of the lung the pulsation of the conus arteriosus of the pulmonary artery may he visible. The observer notes then the pulsation, its position, extent, character, and time in the cardiac cycle, and the presence or absence of abnormal pul- sation. Lungs.—Palpation, of the Chest-wall. — The extent of the chest movements which have been observed under inspection should be verified hy palpation, requesting the patient to take a deep breath. The expansion of the two apices, the two infra-clavicular regions, the axillary regions, and the bases of the lung should be in turn care- fully investigated. Areas of superficial tender- ness may be detected during palpation, and should be carefully noted. The state of the intercostal spaces should be noted, and the presence of various accompaniments, such as friction fremitus, rales, etc., may also be deter- mined. The vocal fremitus, or the ability of the thoracic viscera and chest-wall to transmit vibra- tions produced by the voice, must then be deter- mined. This is subject to great variation con- sistent with health, being more marked in men than in women and children, and is diminished when the chest-wall is well covered with muscles and fat. Further, the vocal fremitus is greater on the right side than on the left, owing to the relative positions of the right and left main bronchi. The diseases causing a decrease of vocal fremitus are pleural effusion, great pleural thickening, pneimiothorax, and any condition which causes occlusion of a large bronchus, such as a tumour or copious secretion of mucus. In- crease of the vocal fremitus is met with in con- solidation of the lung (pneumonia and tubercle) or over a cavity surrounded liy consolidated lung or a tumour in the thorax intimately connected with a l.)ronchus. Heart.—Palpation of the chest-wall will also give information as to the position and character of the cardiac pulsation, and thus confirms what has already been observed as to the position of the apex laeat and the presence or absence of abnormal pulsation. The cardiac pulsation may be accompanied by a thrill—a gentle vibratile sensation which is felt on placing the hand over the region of the heart. A thrill is produced in the same way as a murmur from fluid waves being set up within the l:)lood-stream, the resulting vil)rations being sufficiently ample to pass through the chest-wall and be perceptible to the hand of the observer. If a thrill is present note its time in the cardiac cycle and its position and character. A thrill presystolic in time (the most common variety) is usually perceptible in mitral stenosis. Sys- tolic thrills, as in mitral regurgitation or aortic stenosis, are fairly frequent, diastolic exceed- ingly rare. In percussion of the lungs the observer begins above the clavicles and passes down the chest in the mammary line, laying the pleximeter finger along the interspace or rib, and not across. Compare corresponding points of the chest-wall on the two sides, for if this be not done, the first degree of dulness, comparative dulness, may easily be missed. In percussing in the mam- mary region percuss outside the mammary line ; internal to the mammary line on the left side, the sound will be altered by the underlying