75 CATHETERS, USES AND DANGERS OF upon the urethm. Retention of urine can often be prevented by a subcutaneous injection of strychnia given at the time of the opei'ation. If it follows in spite of this a catheter must be passed again, but not until it is clear that there will be no relief without. Suppression must be treated by subcutaneous injections of digitalin, cupping over the loins, hot baths, and purga- tives. So far as what is commonly called urinary fever is concerned, the main treatment is pre- vention. All instruments should be sterilised beforehand, and only touched with hands that have been rendered thoroughly aseptic. The patient's bowels should have been well opened, preferably by a purge containing calomel, and the urine should have been rendered as resistant as possible to living organisms by the adminis- tration of intestinal antiseptics for some days beforehand. Salol and naphthalin I believe to be the two most efficacious, but the former should not be given in doses larger than three or four grains at a time, for fear of forming intestinal concretions. The patient should remain quiet for some hours after the operation, even if it has been merely the passage of a catheter (unless he is accustomed to it), and great care must be taken to avoid anj'thing that might cause a chill. The bladder should be emptied at the time of the operation, and micturition postponed for as long as the patient conveniently can. There will then be less risk of absorption. A hot hip bath just before the first act of micturition lessens the chance of a rigor, not only by its action upon the skin, but by the way in which it causes all the unstriped muscular fibre around the urethra to relax, and so lessens the pressure as the urine is driven down. At the same time the patient may be given a cup of hot tea, with some brandy, opium, and (juinine. It is probaVjly impossible to render the mucoTis membrane of the urethra really aseptic, certainly if it is inflamed; but there is some advantage, 1 believe, in washing it out thoroughly before such an operation as internal urethrotomy, either with a saturated solution of boracic acid or with nitrate of silver, one in a thousand. After a stricture has been divided in this manner I always inject on to the face of the wound twenty drops to half a drachm of a ^ per cent solution of nitrate of silver or of protargol, and leave it there. The same thing should be done at the neck of the bladder in cases in which a large amount of residual urine is evacuated. It certainly checks, if it does not absolutely pre- vent, the growth of septic organisms at the critical place and time. If a second rigor occurs after internal ure- throtomy or any other operation \ipon the urethra, the injection should be repeated, and a catheter tied in so that the bladder ma.y be kept permanently empty for forty-eight hours. This renders further absorption almost im- possible. It is not wise to leave the catheter longer than forty-eight hours, for fear of causing urethritis. If the bladder becomes irritable, or if any deposit of pus makes its appearance after the evacuation of residual urine, the same thing should be done ; and in addition, if the state of the bladder will allow it, the bladder itself should be w-ashed out twice a day with corrosive sublimate or nitrate of silver. If this does not succeed very soon, or if it is evident from the shape of the prostate, or the condition of the bladder, that it is not possible to keep the cavity empty by tying a catheter in, there should be no hesitation in adojJting perineal drainage or even puncture through the prostate. If septic cystitis is allowed to continue, pyelitis and pyelonephritis will follow. The most successful way of stopping inflammation of the bladder is to follow the plan adopted by nature so far as it can, and empty the bladder and keep it empty. The danger lies in leaving a collection of urine, which has become converted by septic organisms into a virulent poison, stagnant in the post - prostatic pouch. The wisest plan is to adopt adequate measures while there is yet time. Very little can be done in these cases towards restoring the aseptic character of the urine by means of drugs. Unhappily, intestinal anti- septics have very little influence upon the urine. They may make it less favourable as a nutrient medium for the growth of organisms, but the amount that reaches the urine through the kidneys is not sufficient to kill organisms which have already established themselves. And it must not be forgotten that the majority of patients who are attacked by this form of xn-inary fever are already enfeebled by long- standing renal inadequacy, and that anything which tends to iipset their digestion, or prevent their taking sufficient nourishment, is more likely to do them harm than good. Quinine, boric acid, salol, and naphthalin are the drugs which I have found most useful; but the patient must not be forgotten while the complaint from which he is suftering is being treated. CathetOmeter.—A catheter gauge for ascertaining the calibre of the instrument. Cathode.—The negative pole of a galvanic battery ; the negative electrode. CattiVO Male. See Pellagra. Cattle. '^'fx' Abattoirs; Anthrax; Dairies; Foot and Mouth Disease; Rheu- matism, Chronic [Comparative Pathology); Tuberculosis; etc.—From the Public Health point of view, cattle includes bulls, cows, oxen, heifers, and calves, while the term animal is