334 DIABETES MELLITUS Sanctioned Butter, suet, oils, and fats. Custard (without sugar) Reliable bread substi- tutes (gluten bread,' almond and aleuronat cakes). Green vegetables — mustard and cress, watercress, endive, lettuce, spinach, turnip-tops, cabbage, broccoli, Brussels spi-outs,springouions. Cucumber. Mushrooms. Pickles (cucumber, wal- nuts, and onions). Nuts (walnuts, almonds, filberts, hazel nuts, Brazil nuts), hnt not chestnuts. Forbidden Wheaten bread and biscuits. Carrots, turnips, par- snips, beetroot, beans, peas, large onions. Liver. Oysters, cockles, mus- sels, the " puddings" of crabs and lobsters. Honey. All sweet fruit and dried fruits. 'Water, soda-water, and mineral waters. Tea, coffee. Dry slierry, claret, Bur- gundy, hock, Moselle, Ahr wines, most Rhine wines, Austrian and Hungarian table wines (all in moder- ate quantities, how- ever). Brandy in small quanti- ties. Beverages Port, Tokay, cham- pagne, and sweet wines. Must, fruit juices and syrups. Sweet lemonade. Liqueurs. Beer, ale, porter, and stout. Rum and sweetened gin. Cocoa and chocolate. Milk in large quantities. Almost all kinds of animal food may be sanctioned, but liver, oysters, cockles, mussels, crabs, and lobsters should be avoided, because they contain a large amount of carbohydrate material. With regard to milk caution is necessary, since it contains 4 per cent of milk-sugar, but it also contains albuminous bodies and fat, which are of great service to the diabetic. In some cases the addition of milk in considerable quantity to the diet of a diabetic patient does not increase the sugar excretion, i.e. the milk-sugar is utilised in the system. In other cases the glycosuria is distinctly increased by the milk, but nevertheless such patients may gain weight. In the very severe forms of the disease milk is of great service, especially if the digestion is feeble, but in milder forms, if a rigid diet be desirable, milk should be excluded, unless it can be shown that it does not increase the glycosuria. Cream contains less lactose than milk, but seven times the amount of fat. It may be taken freely by diabetic patients, and is most useful in the severe forms of the disease. By the follow- ing simple method an artificial milk can be prepared from cream :—To about a pint of water placed in a pot or glass measure four tablespoon- fuls of fresh cream are added and well mixed. The mixture is allowed to stand for twelve hours. Most of the fatty matter of the cream floats to the top, and can be skimmed off with a teaspoon, and on examination it will be found almost free from sugar (the sugar originally present in the cream having been dissolved and distributed in the water). This fatty matter is then separated and placed in a glass and mixed with water. The white of an egg is added, and the mixture well stirred. A little salt and a trace of saccharine may be added. The mixture with a little practice may be made to taste almost like milk, and it may be taken freely by all diabetic patients. Fats are the most valuable articles of diet for diabetic patients, especially in the severe forms of the disease, and may be allowed in large quantities. The most useful are butter, cream, bacon, cheese, eggs, suet. Cod-liver oil is also of service. If fatty food should give rise to dyspepsia, a small amount of brandy and water, or other form of alcohol, taken after the meal, often aids the digestion. Of the carbohydrates, starch is less injurious than sugar. Of the various kinds of sugar, glucose is most injurious. Milk-sugar and cane- sugar rank next. Ltevulose is least injurious. Many observations have shown that in moderate quantities Isevulose is utilised in the system, and does not increase the sugar excretion in mild forms of diabetes ; but in large quantities, and in the severe forms of the disease, it is only partially utilised, and therefore the sugar excre- tion is increased. Saccharine and saxine may be used to sweeten articles of food in place of sugar. When a very rigid diet is indicated fruit should be excluded, on account of the sugar which it contains. But in many kinds of fruit a large portion of the sugar is Isevulose, which, as just mentioned, can be utilised in small quantities in certain cases. Hence when a very rigid diet is not necessary, a very small quantity of those fruits which contain least sugar may be allowed. Grapes, cherries, and other fruits which con- tain much sugar, as well as dates, figs, currants, raisins, and other dried fruit, should be forbidden. Nuts may be allowed fi-eely, with the exception of chestnuts. As a rule green vegetables may be allowed, whilst white vegetables and root vegetables, which contain more carboliydrate, should be avoided. These have been already indicated. Bread is the article of diet with respect to which there is the greatest difficulty. It con- tains 49 per cent of carbohydrates and 2 per cent of sugar (Konig), and is thus unsuitable