CONVULSIONS, INFANTILE 224 posed. The more common conditions may be thus classified :— 1. Local disease or injury of the brain or its membranes, e.g. intracranial timiour, htemor- rhage, meningitis, etc. The symptoms of cerebral tumour in young children often pre- sent themselves with a startling abruptness, and convulsions at the onset may be general in character. If the convulsions date from birth they are generally due to meningeal haemor- rhage, and ai'e often associated with paralysis and subsequent amentia. In not a few cases of meningitis, convulsions may be the first promi- nent symptom, and such convulsions may be unilateral in character. 2. Altered vascular states, as anaemia, follow- ing haemorrhage or exhausting disease from any cause, venous engorgement, or, more rarely, uraemia. 3. The onset of the acute infectious diseases, e..g. pnevimonia, etc. The frequency of this relationship has been largely overestimated, con- vulsions being much more frequent in the course of such afiections, and then usually dependent on the venous state of the blood (asphyxia). 4. The developmental conditions resulting in idiocy. 5. Peripheral nerve irritation. Teething dis- orders and gastro-intestinal derangements are important factors in predisposed subjects. Severe surgical injuries, such as extensive bums, may certainly cause convulsions in infants in whom no predisposition is to be found. 6. Asphyxia. The important part played by asphyxia is perhaps not duly appreciated by the profession generally. This association clinically between asphyxia and convulsions is in strict accord with physiological experiments. Illus- trative examples have already been given. The convulsive movements seen in various moribund states are probably also of similar origin. Pathology.—The real pathology of convul- sions is as yet undetermined. The post-mortem changes found in the brain and cord are in all probability results and not causes of the dis- order. Probably the ultimate pathological processes concerned will be found in molecular changes in the nerve cells, rather than in changes capable of demonstration with any means yet at our disposal. When the patho- logy of idiopathic epilepsy is revealed to us, the discovery of that of infantile convulsions will be close at hand. Symptoms. — The phenomena of a typical attack of convulsions are identical in character, time, and sequence with those occurring in an epileptic fit, and require no detailed description. In both disorders the attacks generally com- mence with a dazed or " far-away " expression of the face, immediately followed by momentary pallor and dilatation of the pupils. These are closely followed by loss of consciousness, during which the muscles are affected at first with tonic spasms and apncea, succeeded after a variable interval by clonic contractions. In both convulsions and epilepsy there is frothing at the mouth, blood-stained if the tongue be bitten, and in both there may be involuntary discharge of urine and faeces. The attacks always conclude with a period of drowsiness more or less profound. Several of the phe- nomena may be but slightly prominent or even omitted, and convulsions, like epilepsy, may vary in their intensity between the widest extremes. A conspicuous feature of infantile convulsive attacks is the well-known turning in of [the thumbs upon the palms of the hands, with flexion of the fingers around the thumbs. Convulsions may come on suddenly in the midst of apparently perfect health. In other cases there may be warnings in the shape of fretful- ness, squinting, grinding of the teeth, and turn- ings in of the thumbs upon the palms of the hands. Diagnosis.—If the child be seen in the attack the diagnosis can present no possible difficulty. When it has to be made from the verbal accounts of the parents or friends, then the utmost caution and discrimination will have to be used. The too ready acceptation, without careful inquiry, of the laity's interpretation of what constitutes convulsions, has helped to spread and perpetuate an exaggerated impression of the frequency of convulsions proper even amongst the members of the medical profession. Prognosis.—The immediate prognosis is gener- ally favourable. When the attacks so rapidly follow one another as to be merged into one long series (status convulsivus), then death may ensue from exhaustion. This last condition— "status convulsivus" — differs in no respect from the " status epilepticus " of adults, except that in the younger subjects the temperature runs much higher and generally reaches 105° or upwards. Death, too, is not very infrequent in convulsions associated with laryngismus stridu- lus, but here the last-named is possibly more often responsible for the fatal issue than the concomitant convulsions. Convulsions arising during whooping-cough are often fatal, more especially if the infant's health has been much reduced by vomiting or other complication. When broncho-pneumonia is marked by urgent dyspnoea, convulsions, due to asphyxia, are not infrequent and are generally fatal, but the con- ditions preceding them in this instance are of extreme gravity independently of them. In most cases the reviote prognosis of an attack of convulsions should be a guarded one. There is seldom anything in the phenomena of the attacks that furnishes any criteria enabling one to discriminate between convulsions likely to be followed by later neurotic manifestations, and those that are of merely temporary import. Prognosis then must depend less on the pheno- I mena of the attacks than on their history and