348 DIASTASE duced. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Carbohydrates, Maltose); Temperature {Eleva- tion from Injection of Diastase). Dia.Sta.SiS.—Separation of two contiguous bones or muscles {e.g. diastasis of the recti muscles of the abdomen, diastasis of the head of the humerus from the shaft, etc.). The word is derived from Gr. StcEo-rao-ts, standing apart. DiastematO-. — in compound words diastemato- means referring to a congenital longi- tudinal fissure. Thus diastematocheilia is a longitudinal fissure in the middle line of the lip; diastematocystia is a longitudinal median fissure of the urinary bladder; diastematomyelia is separation of the spinal cord into two lateral strands in the whole or (more often) in part of its extent, etc. Diastole. — The relaxation - phase (Gr. Stao-TeAAeiv, to expand) in the action of the heart. See Physiology, Circulation {Cardiac Cycle, Phases). Diastrophe.—A distortion or deformity. Diathesis. See also Appendicitis {Etio- logy, Rheumatic Diathesis); Bronchi, Bron- chitis {Etiology, Diatheses); Cachexia ; Consti- tution ; Gout ; Haemophilia ; Hysteria ; In- sanity, Nature and Symptoms ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Lympha- denoma, Lymphogenic Diathesis); Tuberculosis ; etc.—This term, derived from the Greek words Sta and tiOtjixI., may be defined as the predisposi- tion or constitution of the body, in virtue of which certain of its tissues or organs become, at one time or successively, the seat of affections similar in their nature, these affections present- ing for their origin no other more potent or more definite cause. The nature and meaning of diathesis can probably best be explained by the following considerations. In order that a human being should live through the normal number of years, doing during this period the ordinary amount of work, and exposed during this period to the ordinary risks from cold or injury, it is necessary that each organ and tissue in that being should possess, from the beginning, a proper amount of what is called vitality. It is evident that if any one of these tissues or organs has been endowed at the beginning of life with less than its proper amount of this vitality, its store must become exhausted previous to that of the others. A more or less localised breakdown will then occur, as the result of which the whole being will suffer, or perhaps even the continuance of life M'ill be rendered impossible. .lust as the speed of a fleet is dependent mainly on the speed of the slowest vessel in it, so the duration of life is dependent mainly on the store of vitality possessed by the weakest of the tissues or organs of the body. It is known that, as the result of differences in the surroundings and modes of life amongst individual human beings, the wear and tear of life is not always equally distributed over the different tissues and organs. In one individual, for example, the heart and blood-vessels are specially strained, in another the bronchi and lungs, in a third the kidneys, in a fourth the nervous system, and so on. It is known, further, that the amount of vitality with which the new being is endowed at conception is dependent on the vitality of the parents. Hence it follows that, although the offspring may be always potentially better than the parents, if the parents have lived under unhealthy conditions, if they have been weakened by disease or accident, or if they have been immature or too old, then the store of vitality transmitted to all or certain of the tissues or organs of the offspring will be deficient. Hence it will follow that, as the result of no special overstrain or no excessive exposure to cold or other morbid cause, a premature breakdown will occur. This, for obvious reasons, will tend to show itself specially in one or other of the tissues or organs, heart, lungs, nervous system, kidney, etc., and so, as the result of disease affecting one or other of those parts, the individual will be cut off long before the normal period of life is reached. The precise natui-e of the disease changes which affect these parts is apt to vary. It may be an inflammatory change pure and simple, like a nephritis; it may be an inflammatory change due to the entrance of some organism, as a tuberculous phthisis or an endocarditis; it may be a so-called degeneration, as a fatty heart or an atheroma, or it may be a new growth, a cancer. In all cases, however, the great import- ance of the tissue vitality has to be borne in mind, and although it is always difficult, and oft-times impossible, to say whether the surround- ings or the constitutional condition has been the more important factor in causing a disease, there is no doubt that the capability of the physician to prognose and alleviate depends largely on his jjower of recognition and proper perception of the relationship between these two. The duration of life being dependent on the power possessed by the tissues and organs of the body to maintain themselves against disease changes, and the diathesis being the predisposi- tion to disease changes inhei'ent in certain of these tissues or organs, it is evident that the number of diatheses should theoretically be very great. This number, indeed, should correspond not only with that of the tissues or organs, but also, at least to some extent, with the diseased conditions to which these tissues or organs are liable. Hence, as can i-eadily be understood, a very great number of diatheses has been de- scribed. Among these the more prominent are the gouty, litluemic, rheumatic, strumous, scrofu-