DISINFECTION 413 work, that no part shall escape the application. The room should then be left with the windows (jpen for a day or two, after whicli the ceiling may be whitewashed or papered ; the walls, if papered, stripped and repapered ; and the floor scrubbed with soap and soda, which will convert any remaining suljlimate into a non-volatile and insolul)le compound. A fresh coat of paint to doors and windows would be a further security. Fenders, fire-irons, and metal work generally, which would be spoiled by the sublimate, need only be well polished. Where a proper steam disinfecting oven is available, all beds, carpets, and such-like should be sent there, or if there be none available the ticking and cases must be boiled ; good hair or feathers may be steeped in a 1 in 1000 sublimate solution for half an hour and then washed in pure water, but flock or cheap hair and mi.xcd stuffings are far better burnt. Legislation.—The various enactments bearing on the jjrevention and repression of infectious diseases will be referred to in the articles Infec- tion ; Quarantine; etc. DislOCa.tlOI1. — The separation or dis- placement of bones (more especially) from their natural relations to each other. It may be complete (the ends of the bones overlapping) or incomplete (partial); simple (no other injury), or complicated (one or both bones fractured), or compound (wound making the joint communicate with tlie exterior); habitual or relapsing (re- current) ; spontaneous (not due to violence), or traumatic (due to violence). See Ankle-Joint, Kegion of, Injuries {Dislocation of Peroneal Tendons, Tihio-TarsalandCompoundDislocations, andDislocationof Astragalus); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of ; Chest, Injuries op {Dislocation of Ribs); Deformities {Congenital Dislocations) ; Elbow - .Ioint, Injuries and Diseases of {Dislocations); Fingers {Injuries, Dislocations); Hip-Joint, Injuries of {Disloca- tions) ; Knee-Joint, Injuries of {Dislocations); Lens, Crystalline {Disj^lacement); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Dislocation of Loiver Jaw); Nerves, Peripheral {Disloca- tion of Ulnar Nerve); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Dislocations of Humerus, Acromial End of Clavicle, and Biceps Tendon) ; Spine, Surgical Affections of {Fracture-Dislocation) ; Sterno-Clavicular Joint {Injuries); Wrist- Joint, Injuries {Dislocations). DiSOin3.t£l.—Doulile monsters or united twins, in contrast to tlie monosomatous terata or single monsters {Taruffi). See Teratology. Disorder. See Disease. — Disorder is generally regarded as a milder term tlian disease, and does not indicate structural alterations. DispSir.—-Unequal, unlike. OispsiniSa.ry.—In the strict sense dispen- sary means a jjlace where medicines are made up or dispensed ; but it has come to mean also an institution where poor patients are seen, examined, prescril)ed for, and given medicines and (sometimes) surgical ajipliances, gratis, or for a nominal fee (Charity or Public DisjDensarios). Dispensatory. —A non-official Pharma- copoeia, containing, in particular, the pharma- ceutical details respecting drugs. DisperBSing'.—Making up or putting up medicines according to a prescribed formula {i.e. a prescription). The dispenser has to be very careful to read the prescription carefully and thoughtfuU}^, to be alert to detect incom- patibles or wrong doses, to label the medicine carefully ("Poison," "External Application only," " Shake the Bottle "), etc. See Prescribing. DiSpla.Cennent. — A dislocation, more especially of one or other of the internal organs, e.g. of the litems, spleen, etc. DiSpOSaL—Disposal of sewage, of refuse, I if the dead, etc. See Sewage and Drainage ; etc. Disposition.—Constitution or diathesis or tendency. Dissection - Wounds. See Post- MoRTE,M Methods {Rules of Procedure, Personcd). Disseminated.—Scattered or discrete, as in disseminated sclerosis. See Paralysis {Paralysis with Tremor or Ataxy, Disseminated Sclerosis). Dissociation.—The separation and re- cognition of the elements of a tissue or organ by histological methods (staining, teasing, etc.). Dissociation of personality means the breaking up of the " Ego" into two or more " sub- conscious partners," as in Professor Prince's jiatient, " Miss Beauchamp." Dissolution. — The breaking up of a tissue or of the anatomical elements of a tissue; morbid softening of a tissue ; death ; or the dis- appearance of all traces of an embryo which has died in earh' antenatal life. Dissolution, Law of.—Drugs {e.g. alcohol) acting on the brain and spinal cord are subject to what lias been called the Law of Dissolution; " when a drug affects fmictions progressively, those first aff"ectecl are the highest in development—that is to say, they are the last acquired by the individual and the last to appear in the species. The next affected are those next to highest, and so on ; till finally the lowest of all from an evolutionary point of view, that is to say the functions of respiration and circula- tion, are affected" (Hale AVhite). See Alkaloids {Law of Dissolution).