DEFORMITIES 291 apasniodic Hat-foot.—Tlicasti'ai;':ilu,saiid suaplioid are touching tlic ground ; the foot is very tender, and the patient can only hobble, and the deformity cannot be reduced either l)y the patient or by the surgeon. Tiie peronei and extensor comiaunis digitoruni tendons are in strong relief, and the thickening of the soft tissues on the inner side is much in evidence. Fourth degree or osseous flat-foot.— In this degree the deformity is excessive, and marked changes occurring from arthritis are met with at the medio-tarsal and other joints. In some cases it is said ankylosis takes place. The Etiolor/y and Causation of Flat-foot.—In the majority of cases there are three factors involved,—adolescence, feeble health, and strain on the feet out of proportion to the muscular development. Under the heading of feeble or impaired heidth contributing causes are, weak- ness following exanthemata, acute rheumatism, and aufcmia. Excessive strain on the foot frequently arises from occupations involving long stiuiding on weak feet (static flat-foot). In addition to these general factors, local condi- tions are concerned—for example, bunions and corns on the outer side of the foot, hallux valgus, genu valgum, shortness of one limb, high-heeled and narrow boots, gout, and injurj'. Fatholog;/ and Si/mptom».—Abduction of the foot is the position of weakness, and adduction of strength and activity ; for the usefulness of the foot varies with the preponderance of power of the adductor muscles. When this is lost weakness and pain ensue. In fact, flat-foot depends upon simultaneous relaxation of muscles and ligaments, probably due to vascular changes. The most marked change is in the inferior cal- caneo - scaphoid and the calcaneo - astragaloid ligaments. As the ankle becomes more valgoid its ligaments suffer in proportion. The super- ficial part of the internal lateral ligament is elongated and thinned ; the plantar fascia gives way, the muscles of the calf waste, and the calf loses its I'ouudness, the peronei are in a state of tension and often stand out like cords. The alterations in the position of the bones can be readily understood if one grasps the fact that in flat-foot the astragalus descends, and the bones in front of the medio-tarsal joint are twisted on their axes, so that the inner border of the foot is brought downwards and inwards. In many cases pain is present from the first, occasionally it is felt only after a twist or sprain of the foot. It commences as a feeling of fatigue succeeded l)y dull aching. This aching becomes more acute, and later assumes a sharp and intense form. The tender points in the flat-foot are well defined. They are found beneath the head of the astragalus and tuberosity of the scaphoid, also below and in front of the internal malleolus, on the dorsum of the foot, and about the bases of the first and fifth metatarsal bones. The causation of the pain is first of all stretching of I the muscles, ligaments, and faseiic; and the acute pain is probably referable to surfaces of bone not normally in contact being brought into relationship to one another at points which are not accustomed to pressure. Swelling of the feet and local puffiness are frequently seen over the tender points, and redness from time to time dependent in a degree on the amount of standing and walking. The existence of flatten- ing of the sole is best ascertained by taking a tracing or outline of the "tread." Alteration in the gait: In cases of some severity the gait is lumbering aiad awkward; the patient is splay- footed ; the foot is no longer elastic, and walking- is further impeded by the attendant pain. In fact the patient is wooden-footed. Loss of shape in the feet is fully described under the sub-head- ing of appearances. Sweating of the feet is also mentioned above, and a probable explanation has been given. Flat-feet do not become cured without treatment. As a rule the pain and disability become steadily worse, and the patient has to seek i-elief from the inconvenience. Diagnosis.—Probably there is no deformity so easily and so often overlooked as slight acquired valgus. The best method of detecting the trouble is to take a tracing of the sole of the foot. The writer has known flat-foot to be treated for rheumatism, gout, and for ostitis of the bones of the tarsus. Treatment.—General.—If anaemia be present, iron shoidd be given for a considerable period. When the rheumatic taint exists, salicylate of soda in subacute cases, and in chronic, iodide of potassium and tincture of guaiacum, will be found serviceable. Gonorrhooal rheumatism is very intractable. In rachitic flat-foot cod-liver oil, phosphate of iron, plenty of fresh milk and pure air, will go far to eff"ect a cure. Tiie relief of pain is often a pressing necessity. The surest therapeutic measure is rest, entire and absolute. Local Treatment.—The measures we have at our command ai'e rest, exercises passive and active, mechanical support, and operation. As to the treatment of the first and second degrees. —In static and rickety cases the first essential is absolute rest, and with this may be combined eversion of the foot. The patient should be told to sit on a comfortable sofa or bed " tail"i - fashion." The foot rapidly loses its spasm or pain, the arch rises and the deformity is temporarily relieved. When these occur, exercises should be carried out. Those most to be recommended are tip-toe movements. Their object is to strengthen the flexors of the toes, especially the long and shoi't flexors of the great toe. These movements should l)e carried out in I'hvthm to the swing of a pendulum or to the beat of a metronome. After a few minutes' exercise twice a day complete rest is advisaltle. Passive exercises may be carried out as follows :—The nurse takes the foot and performs a combination