CIECHOCINCK 151 CiechOCinck. See Balneology (i?«.5sia). CigfarretteS.—Drugs, such as stramonium, may be inhaled in the form of cigarettes, as in asthma. See Prescribing ; Asthma {Treat- ment) ; etc. Cilia.. — The hair-Uke processes from the free surfaces of cells {e.g. epithelial cells), which move to and fro with a vibratory motion. See Parasites, Protozoa, {Ciliata); Physiology, Tissues {Epithelium, Ciliated); also, the eye- lashes. See Eyelids, Affections of. Ciliary Body. See Iris and Ciliary Body {Aiiatomij, PJiysiology, Diseases); Physio- logy, Senses (Vision, Ciliary P7-ocesses, Ciliary Muscle). See also Accommodation {Spasm of); Diphtheria {Complications, Paralysis of Ciliary Muscles); Retina and Optic Nerve {Congenital Irregularities in Vessels, Cilio-retinal Artery). CillOSiS.—A spasmodic trembling of the eyelids, or the sensation of such ; the feeling of " live blood." Cimex. — A bug; the bed bug {Cimex lectularius) may by its bite produce a great deal of cutaneous reaction (like urticaria), but some individuals seem to be immune to its poison. See Stinging Insects. CimicifugfSe Rhizoma.—The rhiz- ome of the Cimicifiiga racer/iosa (perhaps better known as Aetata racemosa) is used as a bitter, and also, to some extent, as a heart tonic (raising the arterial tension) ; there are two official preparations, the Extmctujn Cimiciftigoe. Liquidum (dose, 5 to 30 m.), and the Tinctura Cimicifuga? (dose, i to 1 fl. dr.); it is employed in the treatment of chorea, rheumatism, dys- pepsia, and dysmenorrhoea ; the name (cimici- fuga) literally means "putting bugs to flight," and the cimicifuga racemosa is popularly termed bugbane. Cimiez. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {Riviera, Nice). Cinchona. See Quinine; Alkaloids; Phahmacology ; Prescribing; Malaria; etc. Cinchonine.—An alkaloid (CjctH.^NoO) obtained from cinchona, isomeric with cinchoni- dine and with ciuchonicine. See Quinine, etc. Cinchonism. — Poisonous symptoms (tinnitus auriuin, deafness, impairment of vision, headache, dilatation of pupils, etc.) due to use of quinine in large doses or to an idiosyncrasy of the individual. "Cinder-sifting^ Movement."— In cases of movable or floating kidney, a tilting movement of the organ may take place in the plane of the loins by which the convex border of the kidney turns forwards ; this is termed the "cinder-sifting movement." See Kidney, Surgical Affections {Movable and Floating Kidney). CinematOgrraph. "A contrivance by which a series of instantaneous photographs taken in rapid succession can be projected on a screen with similar rapidity, so as to give a life-like reproduction of the original moving scene" (Murray, N.E.D.); the cinematographic (or kinematographic) method has been used for the representation of surgical operations and of medical symptoms (ataxia gait, etc.), and may yet be employed for embryological processes, etc. Cinesitherapy. The treatment of diseases by means of natural or artificial move- ments of the body, e.g. by Klapp's four-footed progression movements in spinal curvature, etc. Cinnabar. — Red sulphide of mercury occurring as an ore in Spain, California, Peru, and elsewhere; from it mercury is obtained by roasting and distilling. Cinnamic Acid.—An acid (CgHgO.,) obtained from the balsams of tolu and Peru, or from storax; it can be artificially made by heating 2 parts of benzaldehyde with 3 of acetic anhydride and 1 of sodium acetate (Perkin's reaction). From it cinnamene (CgHg), a volatile oil, can be got; while from cinnamic aldehyde (CgHgO) can be obtained cinnamenyl- acrylic acid (CjjHjpOg) and cinnamenylangelic acid (C^gHj^O.^). Cinnamein is an oil (CgH-O.^. C^H-) contained in the balsams of tolu and Peru, and obtained artificially by heating sodium cinnamate with benzyl chloride ; it is benzyl cinnamate. See Immunity {Treatment of Tuberculosis by cimiamic acid); Lung, Tuber- culosis of {Treatment, Specific). Cinnamon.—The dried inner bark of Cinnamomum zeylanicum is official, and is known as Ciimamomi Cortex; it has a fragrant odour, and the well-known taste. It contains the official oil {Oleum Cinnamomi), tannin, sugar, and gum; it is contained in various powders and tinctures, and its dose is from 10 to 20 grains. The official preparations of the cortex are the Aqua Cinna7iio7ni (dose, 1 to 2 fl. oz.), the Pulvis Cinna.monii Compositus (dose, 10 to 40 grains), and the Tinctura Cinnamomi (dose, ^ to 1 fl. dr.); the AquM and the Pulvis are con- tained in various other pharmaceutical prepara- tions. The Oleum Cinnamomi consists chiefly of cinnamic aldehyde (C^HgO), a terpene, and eugenol (Cjf,H],>0.,); it is given in doses of ^ to 3 m. ; and its official preparation, the Spiritus Cinjianiomi, has a dose of 5 to 20 m. Cinnamon is used for flavouring medicines; the bark has also astringent properties, and the oil is a stomachic and carminative. See also Pharma- cology ; Prescribing ; etc.