492 EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUELS" creamy pus to a thin ichorous and irritating fluid. At times it is mixed with much mucus, and is consequently tenacious and stringy; at other times it is blood-stained, especially when granulations or polypi are present. Frequently it has a peculiarly offensive odour, when second- ai-y caries or neci'osis coexists. At times it has a liluish colour imparted to it by the presence of the bacillus pyocyaneus; at other times a greenish colour, from the presence of the bacillus fluorescens. It may contain numbers of white, glistening epithelial cells, where cholesteatomatous masses are present in the atticus or the mastoid antrum, and in cases of caries of the surrounding bony walls may be mixed with spicules of disintegTating bone. Perforation of Membrane.—Upon examination the membrane will be found to be perforated. Usually only one perforation exists; at times two, and occasionally even three, are to be seen. The site of the perforation varies much. Most frequently it is situated in the lower segment of the membrane, but may be found in anj' pai't. When situated in Shrapnell's membrane it is associated with suppurative dis- ease of the recessus epitympanicus; and when in the posterior part of Shrapnell's membrane, it is said by some authorities to be an indica- tion of suppurative inflammation of the lining membrane of the mastoid antrum. The size of the perforation varies within wide limits. It may be so small as to be discernible with difliculty, at other times it may practically involve the whole of the membrane. However large the perforation may be, it is rare to find the membrane absolutely destroyed. Usually a small ring around the area of its attachment is left. That portion of the membrane above the level of the short process of the malleus is also usually preserved. The condition of the edges of the perforation gives in a rough way some idea of the duration of the suppurative process. Thus, in compara- tively recent cases the edges have a fairly vas- cular pinkish appearance, whereas in genuinely chronic cases they present a thick, indurated, and irregular whitish outline. In exceptional cases the membrane may be imperforate, the discharge escaj)ing through fistulous tracts in the postero-superior meatal wall communicating with adjacent mastoid cells or by way of the Eustachian tube. The diagnosis of the existence of a perforation is usually made by inspection of the membrane under suitable illumination. In certain cases a pulsating spot will be noted, an almost sure sign of the presence of a perforation. By means of a Siegle's pneumatic specvdum it is possible to draw secretion from the cavity of the middle ear through the perforation. If imperforate, suction by means of this speculum causes a movement of the whole membrane; whereas if perforated, suction produces no movement what- ever. Again, by means of the Valsalvan experi- ment, inflation with Politzer's bag or the Eustachian catheter, secretion can be blown from the middle ear through the perforation, or in cases of a dry condition of the middle ear various sounds will be heard as air blown into the middle emerges through it. Thus, in cases of small perforations the sound is shrill and the note high-pitched. Prognosis.—The question of prognosis has to be considered in reference to danger to life, cessation of discharge, and improvement in hearing.^ The duration of the disease, the particular part of the middle ear which is im- plicated, and the underlying cause of the trouble, afford valuable information in estimating these probabilities. With regard to the danger to life, it may be said that so long as suppurative catarrh of the middle ear is present, so long is the patient liable to the occurrence of various septic complications, any one of which may prove fatal. Even in comparatively simple cases severe intracranial complications may suddenly supervene. As a general rule, the longer the disease has lasted the greater is the risk of bone complications, and hence the greater the risk of septic absorption. Disease within the recessus epitympanicus, especially when accompanied by the presence of a small perfora- tion, is undoubtedly more prone to be followed by intracranial complications than when situated within the atrium and when a large perforation is present. When the result of scarlet fever, scarlatinal diphtheria, tuberculosis, or syphilis, the prognosis is not so good as when it is secondary to catarrhal lesions, naso-pharyngeal disease, etc. The probabilities of a complete cessation of the discharge are much greater if the disease be confined to the atrium than when it implicates the recessus epitympanicus or adjoining mastoid cells. In this latter situation bone lesions are much more frequently met with, and efficient drainage is much more difficult to secure. The continuance of foetid discharge, after prolonged antiseptic treatment, is strong presumptive evidence of the existence of an accompanying bone lesion. When the discharge is tenacious and ropy, chronicity is apt to be favoured. Improvement in hearing may be anticipated in those cases where, after inflation with Politzer's bag, the range of perception of sound is at once increased, and especially when it is maintained for some hours, or even days. When, however, free inflation of the middle ear produces no effect upon the hearing power, and when bone - conduction is diminished, the probabilities are that, even if all suppuration be arrested, there will be little or no increase in audition. Where adhesions bind the membrane to the promontory, or the ossicles to one another, ^ The relation to " Life Insurance " will be considered under that heading.