229 CORNEA making its way tliroiigli t\w. lyiiipli cluuiiiulis till it reaches the infected area. Here two things may happen : the cells either come to a standstill, killed l»y the intensity of the poison, and form a ring of pus surrounding the focus of infection ; or where the poison is less intense, the whole of the infected region is invaded by the white-celled exudation. The ii'ritative action of the toxines spreads lieyond the cornea to the iris and ciliary body ; these become hyperajniic; the blood-vessels of the iris enlarge, the iris tissue becomes swollen, its fibres blurred, posterior synechia} may form, and from the surface of the iris and angle of the anterior chamber an exudation is poured out wi\ich sinks to the bottom of the chanil)er and forms a hypopyon. This hypopyon con- sists of a fibrinous exudation with leucocytes, and is generally fluid, so that its upper limit is horizontal, and its position varies with that of tlie head. A hypopyon is sterile except when the anterior chamber has been opened, wdien it may become infected from without. The opinion was formerly held that the hypopyon was derived directly from the seat of ulceration in the cornea by the passage of the products of inflammation through Desccmet's mem- brane into the anterior chamber; the active resistance of this membrane and of its endo- thelium render this manner of access to the anterior chamber impossible. The hypopyon may sometimes be seen extending up to the region of the floor of the ulcer as a yellow cord communicating at its lower end with the general mass of the hypopyon. At the first view this would appear proof of a communica- tion between the base of the ulcer and the chamber, but examination of the process micro- scopically shows that the corneal layers near the ulcer become swollen, the endothelium shares in this swelling, some of its cells ex- foliate, and a deposit of coagulated lymph and cells forms on the denuded surface, which by increase comes to communicate w ith the general body of the hypopyon. This condition is some- times described as posterior abscess of the cornea ; it very frecpiently ends in a perfora- tion of Desccmet's membrane, but in their eaidier stages the cells of the posterior abscess are sterile and frequently show their origin from the uvea in containing pigment. Results of Ulcerative Keratitis.—If the seat of the ulcer be in the substance of the cornea itself, and the proper corneal tissue be destroyed, a permanent opacity results ; the new scar tissue cannot acquire the peculiar transparency of proper corneal tissue, although the scars and blemishes left by ulcers in early life may to a great extent disappear. Such opacities are called nchnUf, macnhf, or leummata according to their density. If the loss of corneal substance is considerable the intraocular pressure may cause the floor of the ulcer to bulge. At first Desccmet's mem- brane being very elastic and resistant does not give way, but forms a hernia at the seat of ulceration; the appearance of such a hernia is tliat of a transparent bead on the cornea. The protrusion may fl;ittcn and become consolidated, or it may perforate ; perforation is usually accom- panied by a reduction of pain and irritation in the eye, but its results may be serious. The iris may come into contact with the back of the ulcer, or it may be prolapsed through the perforation. If the idcer then heal, an adhesion of the iris to the back of the cornea will be left varying in thickness from a few filaments to a broad band of iris substance, anterim- synecliia. If after perforation the lens come into contact with the back of the inflamed cornea, an opacity is formed at the anterior pole of the lens, and an anterior polar or pyramidal cataract results. The cornea sometimes heals with much loss of substance ; being then too weak to resist the pressure of fluids within the eye it bulges irregu- larly and forms an anterior staphyloma; this also occurs after total destruction of the cornea, the place of the cornea being taken by a thin layer of fibrous tissue united with the tissue of the iris. This weakened membrane may burst and collapse, and become permanently flattened and consolidated, or it may yield again, and again burst. At the time of its distension it protrudes between the lids like a button, and is a source of much distress; after collapsing it again ceases to give trouble for a time. After a large perforation it is \wi Tmconmion for the lens to escape, for the vitreous to become prolapsed, and for the globe to .suppurate or to undergo slow shrinking. Causes.—Infection of the cornea by micro- organisms is necessary for the production of the ulcerative process ; in most cases this is preceded by a loss of surface epithelium. This may be the result of an injury such as an abrasion of the surface or the entrance of a foreign body ; thus it is common among men exposed to injury from their trade, but it also occurs as the result of a wound, as by a baby's finger-nail; some of the worst cases are among agricidtural labourers, those engaged in hedge trimming, or especially among those at work in the harvest-field. In a considerable number of cases mucocele or chronic inflammation of the lachrymal sac is present, and this with its decomposing contents ofl'ers a con- stant danger of infection to an unsound cornea. Ulcci'ative keratitis may also occur from infec- tion of the small ulcers during an attack of phlj'ctenular disease, or in a herpetic eruption on the cornea. The cornea may become infected during gonorrhanxl conjunctivitis, when the w hole of the epithelium is sodden and diminished in vitality, also wiiere the nutrition of the cornea as a whole, and especially of its epithelium, has been profoundly altered, as in kerato-malacia. Finally, ulceration of the cornea may take place