EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUEL.E 505 Pachymeningitis is frequently associated with extra-dural abscess and with suppurative pia- araclinitis (lepto-meningitis). In many cases it is tlie result of an effort of natui'e to erect a barrier between a suppurating focus within the middle ear and the adjacent brain tissue, so as to prevent the invasion of micro-organisms. In siich cases the dura becomes thickened and granu- lar by the deposit of fresh fibrous tissue within its layers, and adhering to the suri'ounding bone by plastic exudation. Where the underlying bone is carious and perforated, tufts of granula- tion tissue may protrude into the cavities of the middle ear and mastoid antrum, and may be at first sight mistaken for aural polypi. Suppurative Pia-Arachnitis (lepto-menin- gitis) is at times very extensive, spreading over the whole base of the brain, and at times over a considerable portion of the cortex. It is fre- quently a complication of intracranial abscess or of sinus thrombosis. Occasionally cerebral or cerebellar abscesses rupture into the arachnoid cavity, with the result that diffuse and violent arachnitis is rapidly set up. Symptoms of Fachy- and Lepto-Meningitis.— The symptom first complained of is pain, which, from being local, rapidly becomes diffuse and intense. The tem^serature is elevated, and in uncomplicated cases remains so. Where, how- ever, meningitis is associated with abscess it may be subnormal. The pulse is rapid and high. Vomiting is usually present, and may be quite independent of the taking of food. Constipation is also a prominent symptom, and is frequently associated with a markedly retracted abdomen. In basal meningitis pain at the back of the head and neck and retraction of the head are fre- quently present. Photophobia, strabismus, and optic neuritis, although by no means constant symptoms, are occasionally present. Cerebral symptoms are mainly of the irritative type, consisting of increased excitability, restlessness, convulsions, and general iiTitability. Meningeal symptoms are, howe\'er, frequently masked by other intracranial lesions, such as abscess or thrombosis, rendering an exact dia- gnosis practically impossible. Paracentesis of the spinal theca occasionally affords useful information. Thus, in cases of cerebral abscess the quantity of albumen in the escaping cerebro-spinal fluid is slightly increased; in meningitis it is markedly so, so much so that more than 1 per cent of albumen indicates the presence of meningitis. Absence of polynuclear leucocytes would indicate absence of any inflam- matory condition of the lepto-meninges. Tejiporc )-SrnENOiDAL Abscess.—The majority of temporo-sphenoidal abscesses occur in young subjects and in those under thirty years of age. They occur with an almost equal frequency upon the right and upon the left side ; they are more frequently found in males than in females, the proportion being nearly 2 to 1. As a rule tliey follow ciironic suppurative lesions in and around the middle ear, although they are met with secondary to acute disease. Occasionally an abscess may occur upon the side opposite to the existing ear lesion. They may lie encapsuled within the substance of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, a zone of healthy brain tissue intervening between the abscess cavity and tiie ear lesion, or they may be connected with the cavity of the middle car by means of a fistulous tract through a perforated tegmen tympani. The contents of the abscess cavity consist of thick purulent matter, often greenish in colour, and extremely fa'tid. In recent cases there may he a distinct limiting membrane, in chronic cases a thick pyogenic capsule. The surrounding brain sub- stances may be inflamed, softened, and occasion- ally necrotic. An abscess may lie dormant within the sub- stance of the brain for many years, until an injury, or some increase of pathogenic infec- tion due to exposure, cold, etc., may light up the already existing lesion with disastrous results. In a few cases they spontaneously dry up, or become converted into a cretaceous mass. Synipjtoim. — (Jne of the earliest and most important of the symptoms of temporo-sphen- oidal aliscess is pain. This is frequently com- plained of directly over the site of the aVwcess cavity, but may and does occur in any part of the head, hence its actual site has no pathogno- monic importance. It is usually of a dull, aching character, increased by pressure, and especially by percussion. After a varying duration, drowsiness and stupor are mani- fested, the patient exhibiting all the synq^toins of sluggish cei'ebi'ation. Vomiting of the cerebral type is an early and important symptom, and may continue for days. The temperature, which in the initial stages of abscess formation is elevated, soon falls as pressure symptoms in- crease, until it may become one or two degrees below normal. Should the abscess burst into the cavity of the pia-arachnoid or into one of the ventricles, a rapid rise results. The pulse, which during the early stage of the disease may be rapid, tends to fall just as the temperature does, until its beats may number only thirty or forty per minute. The respiration wave tends also to become reduced pari pasm with a fall in temperature and pulse rate. Paresis or paralysis of certain muscles or groups of muscles upon the opposite side of the body is also frequently noted, and is due to pressure upon the motor areas, or upon the motor fibres running through the internal cap- sule. Paralysis of the third nerve is compara- tively frequent, and gives rise to such symptoms as ptosis, dilatation of the pupil, loss of accom- modation, and a downward and outward move- ment of the eyeball. Paralysis of the seventh nerve, afi'ecting the facial muscles of the opposite