195 COLOUR VISION the complementary red-green substance, which is present only in the cones. The outcome of this assumption, viz. that the nerve of any cone transmits impulses varying according to the colour, is, however, opposed to the views of present-day nerve physiology. The above two theories are the only hypo- theses relating to colour-perception which now hold tiie field ; and though there are still adherents to Hering's theory, that of Young- Helmlioltz meets with the more universal acceptance. All other theories which endow the optic nerve-fibres with the faculty of trans- mitting nerve-impulses of varying characteristics are antagonistic to the accepted facts of present- day nerve physiology. Dtvdojyiiient of Colour-perception.—Colour- sense and colour-knowledge must not be con- founded ; the former is an inherited instinct, the latter results from education and practice of the sense. Ample evidence exists that the colour-sense was coexistent with primitive man of whom we possess any trace. Among the deposits found in the sepulchral barrows of prehistoric times are variously coloured glass or quartz beads and elab- orately artistic implements and pottery ; while the enamelled bricks of Nineveh and Babylon and the Egyptian mummy-cases show that the ancient inhabitants of the land of the Pharaohs possessed a colour-sense of the highest order. It is evident to any careful observer that a keen appreciation of colour is one of the marked endowments of early infancy. The colour vocabulary is absent, but education in the nomenclature of colour is alone required to voice the existence of the sense. The ordinary vocabulary for colour is a simple one—black, white, red, blue, green, yellow, grey, brown ; and though the majority of educated individuals are content with so meagre a list, there is no reason why such should not be indefinitely ex- tended. Though we have no means of knowinij; how certani terms were originally used or applied to designate the jirimary colours, the abstract nature of colour in the development of the colour vocal)ulary is interesting. Most of our colour- names take their origin from some concrete object. Thus the baking of a certain kind of clay gives us "brick-red," while another variety of clay gives us " terra-cotta." In " rose-colour," " cardinal," " claret," the concrete origin of the colour - name is still apparent. " Rosy," " roseate," " pink," " carnation," " cherry," and " plum " are ftirther examples, while stones such as amethyst, amber, sapphire, turquoise, topaz, and jet give us still more conclusive evidence. Probably the only difference between concrete and abstract colour-names is one of time. Orange, lilac, and even so recent an addition as that of electric-blue, are fast losing association with the objects from which the names were originally derived. The natural colours with which civilised man is brought into contact are comjjaratively few ; the artificially produced hues are many and in- creasing. A pattern-card issued ];y a Lyons silk manufacturer contains samples of two thousand different colours, each with its more or less appropriate name ; and while this colour vocabulary is larger than the entire vocabulary of the majority of people, the gradations of colour in the solar spectrum are still more numerous. The sense to perceive these is already existent; as opportunity offers, an extended colour vocabulary will result. Definition.—Colour-blindness is the condition in which there is inability to distinguish certain colours. It may be rongenital or acquired. The subject may be discussed in terms either of the Young-Hehnholtz or Hering's theory. Congenital Colour - Blindness. — Historical Considerations. —• This congenital defect has probably been coexistent with the human race. It was so named by Brewster. The first un- doubted case appears to be one recorded by Huddart in the Philosophical Transactions of 1777, which was subsequently commented on in 1779 by the Abbe Rozier, who also referred to the case of the painter Calarean. The same year the case of Scott was reported. Then followed the historic case of Dalton, the English chemist of atomic theory fame, who in 1794 studied his red-blindness by the spectrum, and accurately described the condition. The subiject was first systematically and theoretically studied by Seebeck about 183G. Ceorge Wilson of I^dinburgh (1818-1859), by his researches and writings, strongly advocated attention to the practical side of the (question, but his work did not receive the attention it deserved. The measure of attention which the subject in its practical bearings is now receiving is largely due to the powerful advocacy of Frithiof Holmgren, of Upsala, in his work published in 1877, and of Dr. B. Joy Jeffries of Boston, who wrote two years later. Yet even now, in spite of constant and consistent agitation, much remains to be done, for Governments do not yet fully recog- nise their duty in a matter of such vital im- portance to life and property. Congenital colour-blindness may be total or partial. Total or Complete Colour-hlindness.—ArJiroma- topsia.—This condition is rare ; it may be unilateral (Otto Becker and von Hippel). The spectrum appears in shades of grey throughout, being lightest in the position of the yellow- green, and darkest at each end. A coloured picture appears like a photograph or an engrav- ing. According to the Young-Helmholtz theory, such cases are explicable on the assumption that all the three photo-chemical substances ai'e alike, as is normally the case at the extreme retinal peripheiy, or that the three colour- receptive elements are jjaralysed. Hering's