293 DEFORMITIES with the hand across the heatls of the metatarsal bones. Frequently the affected foot is broader in that region than is normal, and on examining the sole one or two corns will l)e found, usually over the heads of the third anrl foiu'th metatarsal bones. These corns are indicative of the fact that those metatarsal heads have fallen out of their normal position. Frequently, too, there is a peculiar twist in the foot; the portion in front of the tarso - metatarsal articulation is twisted inwards, so that the base of the fifth metatarsal bone is exposed to the pressure of the boot, and the patient complains of constant pain at that spot. Diagnosis.—Formerly this affection was con- founded with gout or rheumatism, and vain efforts were made to treat it. It is sometimes mistaken for flat-foot; and, as we have already mentioned, flat-foot is present in many of these cases. But it is not the flatness of the posterior part of the foot which gives rise to the acute pain. It is acute neuritis of the digital nerves. As to Prognosis, in severe cases the only improvement or cure that can be effected is by operation. Treatment.—In all instances it is advisable to search for evidence of rheumatism or rheiunatoid arthritis and gout. In slight cases the acute attacks of pain may be relieved by removing the boot and soaking the foot in hot water ; and the application of the oleates of morphia and atropine may temporarily relieve the pain. If boots designed on the following plan are tried, they will be found useful. They shoidd be narrow in the instep, so as to compress the bases of the metatarsal bones; and where tlie heads of the metatarsal bones are, there should be depressions hollowed out in the sole so that pressiu-e is borne in walking not on the heads of the bones but behind them. Very often, however, one finds that this measure fails to give relief; there are then the following courses open—either to exsect the nerve, or to amputate the toe, or to remove the head of the metatarsal bone around which the pain is greatest. As a rule this is the fourth, and it is astonishing to observe the good effects of this procedure. The pain immediately disappears;, never to return, and the mechanism of the foot is in no wise interfered with. In fact, it is the one proceeding -which gives permanent relief. Bow-Legs (Curved Tibia and Fibula) Causes.—Congenita/ curvature of the legs is due to malposition //; utero. It is usually asso- ciated with shortening of the limb and talipes equino-varus. The curve is usually anterior, and at the convexity of the curve there is frequently found a depression in the skin. This has been thought to indicate that com- pound fracture has occurred in utero. But this is not so. Treatment is generally of little value in these cases, but after childhood when the talipes has been corrected a wedge-shaped piece of bone may be removed from the tibia. Osteitis de- formans and osteo-nndacia give rise to curv;iture in the tibia and fibula as in the other long bones. Traumatic curvature of the bones arises most frequently from fracture. It is also met with after injury to epiphyses, either of the tibia or fibula. The growing power of one epiphysis is arrested, while that of the other remains unchecked, so that the longer bone is invariably bent. Such cases, however, are rather of the nature of surgical curiosities. Si/philitic curvature is interesting, and is more frequently a manifestation of the congenital form of disease than of the acquired. It should be carefully distinguished from rickety curvature by the following points. In the syphilitic form tiie curve is purely anterior, while in the rickety form it is antero-external or antero-internal. The syphilitic curve is usually situated at the middle of the shaft, while the rickety curve is more often in the lower third. The crest of the tibia in a syphilitic curve is smooth and roimded, and in a rickety curve sharp, while the surfaces of the tibia in the former are convex, and in the latter flat or concave. Syj^hilitic curvature of the tibia is best appreciated by looking at the bones from the side, when it is very striking. Osteo-7ua/acia and osteitis deformans also cause curvature of the bones of the leg ; the most common cause, however, is rickets. Appearances.—In rickety bow-legs the tibia is flattened from side to side, and the curve is generally most marked at the lower third. The medullary canal is often narrowed in the middle of the shaft and enlarged at the extremities. On the concave side of the curve the l)one is miich thickened Ijy sub-periosteal deposit, which acts as a supporting liuttress to the arch. Curvature niay take j^kice in almost any direc- tion, but the following types are found :—An external curvature generally situated at the junction of the middle and lower third of the leg. {b) A more or less anterior curvature of the tibia occupying the whole length of the bone or only the upper or lower third. In these cases the heel is often raised, the foot pointed, and in walking is in a position of equino-valgus. (c) An intertial curvatu7-e is present with flat- tening of the bones and the feet in a varoid position. Of these three types the first is common and the third rare. Occasionally there is seen a case with an internal curve in oin^ leg and an external curve in the other. Prognosis.—In bow-legs there is always a tendency to spontaneous rectification. This in slight cases is often complete, but in severe cases only partial. It is therefore unwise to allow any case to pass untreated, since, if the bones are soft, slight cases may very quickly become severe. Treatment.—The metiiod depends upon