CHOLERA, EPIDEMIC 117 But while the cholera vibrio is capable of retaining its vitality, it loses much of its viru- lence when grown for a time as a saprophyte, and tlie more vigorous its saprophytic growth, the less its virulence. From Hankin's observa- tions tliis loss of virulence is observed even in India, where the conditions might be supjDosed to be peculiarly favourable for it retaining its properties. Not only does it lose in virulence when grown continuously outside the body, but it also undergoes marked morphological changes. It is admitted that the vibrios met with in cholera stools present considerable difterences, which tend to perpetuate themselves through successive generations. Some have one flagel- lum, others more. Less definite distinctions in size and form are also observed. Differences, too, exist in the appearances presented by the colonies they form on gelatine plates and in their power of liquefying gelatine, and all this has given rise to discussions as to the unity or multiplicity of the germ. The marked morpho- logical and biological changes in vibrios, derived from a common stock, which are observed to occur under cultivation, prove the variability of the organism, but the essential unity of all the varieties is attested by their common patho- genic properties, and hy the immunity which the vaccine of one variety confers from attacks of all the others. When the cholera vibrio is cultivated in the peritoneal cavity of the guinea-pig its virulence is increased, and it is by passing it in this way through a succession of guinea-pigs that Hafi- kine obtains his prophylactic virus. A culture from the peritoneum furnishes a pure sub- culture on agar, which is thoroughly shaken up with broth. This constitutes the vaccinating fluid, which may be used as a living vaccine, or the bacillus may be killed before being used. Very great interest and importance attaches to the investigations of Metschnikoff bearing on the influence of non-pathogenic organisms in promoting or hindering the develojjment of the cholera vibrio on external media, and in deter- mining infection in animals. He foimd that some species of sarcinse, toruhc, and a variety of the colon bacillus promoted the infection of suck- ling rabbits. The associated organisms rapidly disappeared, but none the less they subserved to the development of the cholera virus in these animals. When we rememlier the effect of moulds in promoting the growth of the bacillus of yellow fever, and of streptococci in intensifying the virulence of the diphtlieria bacilhis, we feel that it is in this association of non - pathogenic organism with the cholera bacillus that we are likely to And an ex])lana- tion of some obscure points in the etiology and epidemiology of the disease. The manner in which the comma bacillus is influenced by temperature, moisture, rainfall, and drought throws considera))le light on some of the epidemic features of cholera. (a) The relation of the vibrio to temperature explains why in temperate climates cholera epi- demics are mostly restricted to summer and autumn. It is in these seasons only that the temperature permits its saprophytic growth. (A) The eftect of drying on the vitality of the parasite accounts for cholera dying out during the long dry season in the Punjab and Central Provinces, and its reappearance after the rain begins to fall, when the earth and atmosphere become moist and humid. In such regions the cholera season is regulated not by the tempera- ture as in Europe, but by the rains. (c) The inability of the vibrio to live for any length of time in fluids deficient in nutritive material, as well as the effect of excessive moist- ure of the soil in reducing the oxygen at the disposal of the organism, explain the subsidence of the disease in endemic areas, when the heavy rains submerge large tracts of land, and displace the air from the soil that remains uncovered. Etiology.—For a widespread epidemy of cholera the following conditions are necessary :— (1) The presence of the microbe; (2) a suitable medium and temperature for its growth outside the body ; (3) means of transport from place to place; (4) a vehicle by which it can be diffused in a particular locality; (5) a susceptibilitj' for infection on the part of a community. 1. Sources of the V/,rus.—The primary source of the virus, outside the regions in which cholera is endemic, is in every instance the intestinal discharges of a person suffering from, or one who has recently STift'ered from the disease, or of a person who without suffering from the disease harbours the microbe, from having associated with a cholera patient. It will seldom happen, however, that the microbe grown in the intestinal canal of a cholera patient will find its way directly into that of a healthy person, for cholera discharges will only be swallowed accidentally, or as the result of a scientific experiment. It is the descendants of this microbe grown in some external medium— water, milk, soil, linen—which in most cases causes infection. 2. Breediiiff-jjlaces.—The virus having been introduced into a locality must find some medium outside man in which it can grow. Such media are (a) a soil polluted with organic matters, especially excreta; under soils we include accumulations of animal and vegetable refuse, cesspools, etc.; (b) sewage-polluted water; (c) milk and other articles of food. Having found a suitable medium, the bacillus requires a certain temperature for its growth. Cholera was introduced sinuiltaneously into New York and New Orleans in December 1846, and broke out in both cities ; but in New York the outbreak rapidly subsided, whereas in New Orleans it spread during the winter. This