DYSENTERY 443 ever may be the degree of thickening resulting from oedema or suppuration, the bowel is never rigid. The crotqMus variety, as we liave already seen, begins with congestion, ecchymosis, and thicken- ing, followed by a croupous deposit. This presents itself cither as a soft, jelly-like layer, which may be rulibed off from the mucosa, not, however, detaching the cjjithelium, or it occurs as a firm and adherent deposit of a grey, rusty, or black colour. In some cases it appears in isolated specks limited to the folds of the mucosa, in others it forms warty masses, discrete or con- fluent, involving larger or smaller surfaces of the mucous membrane. That this is not a simple necrosis of the surface of the mucosa, such as is seen in the inflammatory variety, is proved by the epithelium being found in situ under the adhering layer. This deposit consists of a granular, sometimes indistinctly fibrillated, sub- stance enclosing red corpuscles and bacteria. The underlying mucosa is thickened from con- gestion, ffidema, and increase of lymphoid ele- ments. The surface deposit dips clown into the tubular glands, which become distended by hyperplasia of their lining epithelium; com- pressed and distorted by pressiu-e ; sacculated by obstruction from within or by pressure from without. The solitary glands are often enlarged and prominent, and at a later period become necrosed, leaving small, round, punched - out ulcers. As the disease progresses, the deposit is detached, leaving an ulcerated surface. The ulcer is at first limited to the mucosa, but it may afterwards gain in depth and successively involve the sub-mucous and muscular coats. In the diphtlm-itic variety the bowel becomes thickened and rigid, and its calibre narrowed. Internally, the affected portions are variegated in colour and uneven on the surface. The wall of the bowel cuts like brawn, the section pre- senting a streaky yellowish and red appearance. Microscopically the most notable ajjpcarances are engorgement of the blood-vessels, dilatation of the lymphatics, thickening of the walls of the smaller veins, increase of small cells, and the presence of an amorphous granular substance in the meshes of the connective tissue, the cells of which undergo degenerative change. The necessary termination of the diphtheritic form is sloughing and gangrene. The sloughing arises in some cases from the compression of the vessels and tissues by the exudation and the multiplication of lymphoid cells ; but, in other instances, arrest of the circulation of blood and lymph from the action of the virus appears to give rise to necrosis, sloughing, and gangrene. Amwhic Dysentery.—In amoebic dysentery, to use the words of Lafleur, "thickening of the bowel is a constant and very characteristic feature. It may involve all the tunics, but is especially marked in the sub-mucosa, and is sometimes limited to it. It consists in a general oedema, and in localised areas of thickening, which appear on the surface of the mucous membrane, especially its folds, as sharply cir- cumscribed hemispherical or ovoid projections, over which the membrane is slightly reddened or discoloured. When incised they are found to contain a pale or greyish-yellow, viscid material consisting of detritus of tissues, red corpuscles, and amoebfe." When the mucous membrane gives way, ulcers are formed, which tend to burrow beneath the mucous coat, and often communicate with neighbouring ulcers. Tiie ulcer is primarily seated in the sub-mucosa, and spreads by further infiltration and softening of the surrounding thickened sub-mucous tissue. Its edges are ragged, the base sloughy, clean, or granulating according to the stage in Avhieh it is foimd. The microscopic appearances in a.ma>bic dysentery differ little from those met with in other forms. We have the same engorgement of blood and lymjjh vessels, the same oedematous thickening, the same increase of small cells. The connective tissue cells undergo degeneration, and the intercellular substance becomes con- verted into an amorphous, granular mass. The glandular structures are only secondarily aff'ected. The lesions of chronic dysentery are multiform. As results of the primary acute attack, we meet with fibrous bands ov ^^iarpies formed during the process of repair. These sometimes give rise to constrictions of the gut. Side by side with these may be found portions of the bowel which have luidergone atrojahy, involving more or less all the coats, or confined to the glandular struc- tures. As a result of the chronic inflammatory process, we meet with more or less dift'use thick- ening and induration. In some cases the affected portions of the bowel are semi-cartilaginous to the feel. Chronic ulcers are also frequently met with, especially above constrictions or contrac- tions. When death has followed an acute exacerbation the lesions characteristic of the acute form will also be present. Associated Pathotx)gy. — The mesenteric glands in acute dysentery are enlarged and hypertcmic; in the chronic disease, enlarged, pigmented, indurated, and sometimes the seat of cheesy deposits. When ulceration has ended in pei'foration diffuse peritonitis will be found. Much more frequently perforation is prevented by partial peritonitis, with effusion of lymph and the formation of adhesions to the neighbouring viscera. The colon may thus be adherent to the coils of the small intestines, to the stomach, to the under surface of the liver, or to the spleen; these adhesions often seriously affect the func- tions of the bowel. In a considerable proportion of cases of tropical dysentery, especially of the amajbic kind, the liver is the seat of solitary or multiple abscesses, or of pviTrraic deposits. It may also be found congested and hypertrophied