148 CICATRICES Ordinarily, however, the terms are applied to superficial formations of " scar tissue" which are covered with newly developed epidermis. A healthy cicatrix has a smooth, more or less glossy surface. In its earlier stages it is of a pinkish colour, due to the persisting vascularity of its connective tissue; later it becomes white, dense, and much less vascular. It differs from true skin in being less elastic and in possessing no surface furrows, hair follicles, sebaceous or sweat glands. The surface shows slight longi- tudinal ridges, caused by contraction. The size of a scar depends on the amount of normal tissue which has to be replaced. A. When healing takes place by first inte7i- tion, the resulting cicatrix is "linear" and in time it tends to become less and less apparent. Under the microscope a transverse section shows a narrow, non-vascular band of connective tissue covered by epithelium, and with its ele- ments arranged parallel to the surface. B. When healing takes place by second inten- tion, the resulting cicatrix has a more widespread surface. Clinically, its characters depend on the nature of the preceding granulation tissue. Microscopically, the cicatrix of a wound which has healed by second inteiation shows on the surface a thin covering of epidermis. This covering is indented from beneath by papillary tufts, which are simply the organised vascular tufts of the preceding granulation tissue. They contain no tactile end-organs, the connective tissue forming them is denser and less vascular than in the case of the papillae of normal skin, and they tend in time to become more flattened. Below this is fibrous connective tissue, arranged in interlacing bundles, more or less vascular, and more or less cellular, according to the age of the scar. Unna states that elastic tissue may in time be re-formed in the scar. At the margin of the cicatrix its structure rather rapidly merges into that of the surrounding normal tissues. Cicatrices are divided into three varieties :— 1. Normal or flat cicatrices, whose level is the same as that of the surrounding skin. 2. Atrophic cicatrices, in which over-contrac- tion of the fibrous tissue has taken place, and the surface is retracted below the level of the surrounding skin. 3. Hypertrophic cicatrices, where in conse- quence of over-reaction, or long continuance of the healing process, an excess of scar tissue has been formed, so that the level of the cicatrix is higher than that of the surrounding skin. Treatment of such cicatrices is only necessary when they cause disfigurement, particularly on exposed surfaces. Measures directed towards keeping up their vascularity, such as massage or painting with iodine, tend to induce a degree of resorption, or if the surrounding skin is lax, the scar may be excised and the edges accurately apposed with the view of substituting a linear cicatrix. Pathological Conditions of Cicatrices 1. Weak Cicatrices are thin, shining, red- dish, easily wrinkled and cracked, prone to break down and ulcerate in the centre, the friction of the clothes being sufficient to cause this. They result when the original wound has been very extensive and contraction has been incomplete during the healing process. Hence they occiu- after severe burns or scalds, par- ticularly if these have affected the tissues deeply; but a smaller cicatrix when it is adherent to bone may also show a weak tendency. Certain constitutional conditions, as tuber- culosis (scrofula), anaemia, syphilis, scorbutus, conduce to the formation of weak cicatrices. The weakness may be due to defective granula- tion, or defective epithelial formation (kera- tinisation). Treatment.—Treat locally, as for ulcers. In addition to topical applications, the part must be carefully jjrotected from the slightest injury and the general health attended to, treating the constitutional condition if it can be made out. If the wound has been extensive, there is less, chance of good cicatrisation, and a plastic opera- tion is necessary. Thiersch-grafting may not give a good result in such an ulcer, and it is better, after scraping or cutting away all the unhealthy tissue, to transplant a piece of skin from the neighbourhood {vide " Skin-grafting "). 2. Exuberant, HrrERTROPHic, Deformed Cicatrices.—Cicatrices of ragged wounds, such as are caused by glass, splinters of wood, or nails, are generally prominent and ugly. The scars of tuberculous ulcers are extensive and irregular. Wounds which take a long time to heal by granulation may develop a large hyper- trophic cicatrix. Treatment is required only when the scar is on an exposed surface, and then it is for the removal of the disfigurement caused. When the surrounding skin is tense, opera- tive interference is inadmissible, though some improvement may be brought about by measures, such as massage, painting with iodine, etc., directed to the increase of vascularity in the connective tissue; but if the skin be lax, the scar may be completely dissected out, the edges accurately apposed with buried catgut sutures, and a linear cicatrix substituted for the hyper- trophic one. 3. Contracting Cicatrices, Causing De- formity.—Such cicatrices may in themselves be quite healthy, but they cause conditions which become pathological. (<x) Simple contracting Cicatrix.—The amount of contraction depends on the depth of the original wound. When the whole cutis has been destroyed, the contraction is greater than