446 DYSENTERY is a sequel to the acute disease. Many of the cases of tropical dysentery which begin insidi- ously as an intermittent diarrhoea are probably amoebic, but we meet with cases, chronic from the beginning, which are clearly non-amoebic. These cases often run a much more protracted course than amoebic dysentery. We meet with instances of this variety which persist with intervals of quiescence for seven, ten, or fifteen years. Chronic dysentery is, however, generally a sequel of the acute disease. The acute symp- toms subside, but a tendency to looseness per- sists, with occasional traces of blood and mucus in the stools, and recurring attacks of colicky pains or of abdominal discomfort. These symp- toms disappear for a time, and the patient re- sumes his ordinary habits, when a subacute exacerbation shows that the primary attack had left behind it latent mischief which a chill or some slight indiscretion in diet sufficed to stir into activity. Now follow periods of quiescence, daring which for a few days or weeks the bowels may be normal or constipated, the prevailing- condition, however, being a tendency to loose- ness. These alternate with periods of exacerba- tion during which the stools are dysenteric and passed with griping and straining. The appe- tite after a time is lost or becomes capricious; the digestion is impaired ; often there is nausea, occasionally vomiting, and tlie patient emaciates and becomes ansemic. When the bowel has become narrowed by cicatrices, or its action impeded by adhesions resulting from the primary attack, or by thicken- ing set up by the chronic inflammation, the symptoms of intestinal stenosis develop. The evacuations are passed with difficulty; the abdomen becomes tumid and tender; there is a distressing feeling of distension, the breath acquires a feculent odour, the complexion be- comes earthy, the tongue glazed, the skin dry, and the patient sinks from exhaustion or is carried off by some intercurrent malady. Special Forms and Complications.—Malaria. —We must distinguish between dysentery com- plicated with malaria, and dysentery caused by malaria. When the patient is not immediately suffering from malarial paroxysms, the fact of his having recently done so sometimes shows itself either in an evening rise of temperature or in a return of aguish attacks. In many instances the previous malaria has no effect whatever on the course of the dysentery. An evening rise of from one to three degrees is often ascribed to malaria when it is really caused by septic absorption. When dysentery coexists with actual paroxysms of malarial fever, the two diseases may run their course without the one perceptibly influencing the other. In other instances the dysenteric symptoms become aggra- vated during the paroxysm, but the contrary result is also occasionally observed, the dysen- teric symptoms subsiding during the fit. There is a form of pernicious malarial attack which is characterised by intermittent dysen- teric attacks. The symptoms subside or dis- appear during the intermission to recur at quotidian or tertian intervals. This is an ex- ceedingly rare form of pernicious fever. Much more common is an intermittent intestinal haemorrhage. The blood passed may be pure or mixed with fa3ces. In these cases we have to do with malaria, not with dysentery. But malarial fever may give rise to perhaps more than one special form of dysentery, which may be looked upon as substantive diseases. The fever-stricken troops in the great fever epidemy in Mauritius in 1866-67 were attacked with a dysentery characterised by discharges of a thin, smoky, dark fluid, with no trace of feculent matter. Sometimes sloughs were passed, some- times none. There was a marked tendency to collapse. On autoj^sy a total sloughing of the large intestine was observed in some cases, while in others the only morbid appearance was a prominent state of the glands. Ipecacuanha was of no service in this form of dysentery, but large doses of perchloride of iron were frequently useful. Scorbutus.—In persons suffering from scurvy dysentery begins as a diarrhoea, and throughout its course the motions are generally more copious and less frequent than in the ordinary forms of acute dysentery. The stools consist of fa;ces, mucus, and a considerable amount of sanguine- ous fluid, often with sloughs. The tormina and tenesmus are less severe. The ordinary symp- toms of scurvy will, of course, be present. It must be remembered that if scorbutus predis- poses to dysentery, so does chronic dysentery predispose to scurvy. The combination of these two diseases forms one of the most fatal maladies in besieged cities. Rheumatism of the large joints has been very common in some epidemics of dj'sentery in Europe. One joint after another may be attacked, or the disease may be confined to one joint, generally the knee. The swelling and pain are considerable, but it is rarely accom- panied by fever, and still more rarely does it terminate in suppuration. It is analogous to the joint affection of Malta fever. Paraplegia of a reflex character is an oc- casional sequel both of acute and chronic dysentery. Epidemic Gangrenous Eectitis, the Caribi or Buck sickness of British Guiana, is a highly infectious malady, which has repeatedly occurred in destructive outbreaks among the Indian population. It has also been met with in Trinidad, Brazil, and Peru, in which places the white population has not been spared. The same, or a similar disease, combined with a gangrenous stomatitis, is said by Comey to be one of the most fatal diseases in Fiji and some of the other islands of the Pacific. The