100 CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF The diagnosis that the symptoms in a case are due to dentition can rarely be made with any confidence until the patient is well on the way to recovery. Treatment.—Lancing the gums was at one time very largely practised. Now it is not considered advisable, except occasionally when the gum is swollen, red, and tense over a com- ing tooth, and the child is suffering local pain or showing signs of reflex nervous disturbance. Under these circumstances it sometimes gives marked relief and can do no harm. The general restlessness and irritability of teething children may be relieved by a few grains of antipyrin, phenacetin, or bromide. An aperient generally relieves the symptoms greatly. {B) The Permanent Teeth.—The permanent teeth number thirty-two. The order and usual time of their appearance is as follows :— First molars .... 6 years Incisors. . . . . 7 to 8 „ Bicuspids . . . . 9 to 10 „ Canines . . . . 11 to 13 ,, Second molars . . . 12 to 15 „ Third molars (wisdom teeth) . 17 to 25 „ The eruption of the permanent teeth is not a usual source of irritation either local or general in childhood ; but the wisdom teeth, especially those of the lower jaw, may cause some distress when they appear. Development of Various Glandular Organs. —The Salivary Glands and the Pancreas.—Not only is the saliva very scanty in young babies, but it is also deficient in diastatic power. After the third or fourth month its amount and its functional capacity increase, but it is only towards the end of the first year, when a number of teeth have usually appeared, that its amylolytic action becomes at all fully established. The action of the pancreatic secretion on starch is practically absent at birth, and develops, pari passu, with that of the saliva. The pan- creatic juice is relatively active in digesting proteids and fats even in new-born infants. The Stomach.—At birth the stomach has its fundus only slightly developed, so that it has a tubular shape and a very small capacity. Ac- cording to Holt, the average infant's stomach can contain at birth only 14 oz., at three months 4^ oz., at six months 6 oz., and at twelve months 9""oz. The stomach plays a less important part in the process of digestion during infancy than in later life. This is owing to the gastric juice being scantier and less powerful, and to the fact that the stomach contents are not allowed to remain very long in it. The relatively small proportion of hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice of infants probably helps to account for their characteristic susceptibility to gastro - in- testinal infection. The Intestine.—In infants the intestine is relatively long, and its muscular wall compara- tively feebly developed. This latter fact helps to explain the greater tendency to constipation and to flatulent distension in young children. The Thymus.—-The thymus gland is a large organ at birth, weighing about half an ounce, and it grows until, by tlie end of the second year, it weighs 1^ to 2 oz.; after that age it gradually diminishes. The area of dulness over the manubrium sterni which it causes must not be forgotten in examining the thorax in babies. Development of the Special Senses.—Eye- sight.—Within a few weeks of birth most infants are evidently pleased by a brightly coloured object or a light. By the third month the child should show that he recognises his mother's face, and after that he soon gets to know the look of many things. He is long, however, of being able to distinguish coloiu-s. He may know red and yellow in the first twelve months, but will not probably recognise blue and green until the second or third year. In testing the sight in an infant, we may try if he follows a lighted match or other bright object with his eyes, whether he seems to re- cognise his mother and to see familiar objects, such as toys or food, approaching. It should also be noticed if his pupils contract with light and, if he is more than a few months old, with accommodation. If the point of a finger is suddenly brought close to the eyes of a baby over two months old who has normal sight, it causes winking. Hearing.—During the first day or two of life all children are deaf; but by the second week they should be able to hear loud noises quite well. If they show no signs of doing so, it may be suspected that they are either deaf or idiotic. Although children are very early attracted and pleased by noises, they cannot usually dis- tinguish even their own mother's voice when three months old. Taste and smell are both relatively well developed within the first few days of life. If they have to be investigated in childhood, familiar articles of food generally form the best tests. Sensihility to touch, temperature, and pain are not very acute in early infancy. To be satis- factory, the examination of the various forms of sensation in infancy must be not only carefully made but frequently repeated. Development of the Voluntary Motor Functions.—At birth the infant's actions are automatic, and it is only when some three or four months have passed that he acquires the power to execute distinctly voluntary move- ments, such as turning towards those he is fond of, or pushing away from him something he does not like. By noticing the age at which a child acquires the power to execute certain move-