DIPHT erysipelas, followed \>y suppuration in (|uinsy, constitute a firoup of symptoms very different from those of diphtheria. In ente7-ic fever the error is usually made in cases ushered in with tonsillitis, but it may be due to mistaking in- spissated mucus, clotted milk, etc., for membrane. In some rare cases of imimj^s the cervical glands only are inflamed, and not the salivary glands; but in this disease the fauces are unaffected. Careful attention to the e.xact nature of the local lesions will prevent mistakes in the other diseases mentioned above. It has been in- cidentally stated that false membrane may be present in other diseases besides diphtheria {e.g. scarlet fever). It is known also that local irri- tation of a mucous surface by certain chemicals and by steam may excite a meml)ranous in- flammation. Other micro-organisms than the diphtheria bacillus may produce a similar result. Hut without careful bacteriological examinations it is impossil)le to distinguish these conditions, and, apart from such examinations, it is prudent to consider all membranous inflamma- tion of the fauces to be diphtherial. The same remark is true of membranous laryngitis. In most cases of laryngeal diphtheria there is no difficulty with regard to diagnosis, since it follows or accompanies the faucial form of the disease. But wlien the aftectiou commences in the larynx, or the faucial lesion is slight and transient, it is not easy to distinguish diphtherial croup from croup due to other causes. In some patients it is possible to obtain a view of the larynx with the laryngoscope. But this means is not always available, and it is useful to know that in most children the epiglottis can be brought into direct view for a moment by depressing the posterior part of the tongue ; as the epiglottis is often affected in laryngeal diphtheria, membrane may in some instances be thus observed upon its tip or anterior surface. In other cases membrane may be coughed up. In all doul)tful cases a bacteriological examina- tion should be made, a scraping of the mucous membrane being taken as near the larynx as possible. Any affections causing laryngeal ob- struction may be mistaken for diphtheria. But simple laryngitis, membranous laryngitis, and swellings external to the larynx give rise to most trouble in this respect. Of the latter, those which by bulging over the laryngeal orifice impede respiration are the most common, namely, in children (in whom the question of diagnosis from diphtheria chiefly arises), post- phaiyngeal abscess, growths, and excessive hypertrophy of the tonsils. A careful local examination will usually clear up the case. Less conniionly cases of a foreign body in the lar^-nx, laryngismus stridulus, and ulceration of the larynx (especially the simple and tlie tuber- culous) are wrongly diagnosed as diphtheria, while still more rarely croup due to paralysis of the abductors of the vocal cords, intra-larj-ngeal 'HP:RIA .395 growths, or oedema glottidis are thus mistaken. The history of a doubtful case should be carefully gone into ; it will be observed that many of the diseases irientioned above run a course which is chronic compared with the duj-ation of a case of diphtheria. It should be remembered that laryngitis maybe the first symptom of an attack of measles. There is then usually a high tem- perature and frequent coughing and sneezing, with sometimes conjunctivitis and coryza. The diagnosis of nasal diphtheria must often depend upon a bacteriological examination, since in many cases there is an absence of membrane. ^'ulval diphtheria may be simulated by erysipelas and noma vulvtc. Diphtherial paralysis in eases where the primary sore throat lias been slight or over- looked may be mistaken for some other form of peripheral nerve degeneration or neuritis, locomotor ataxia, or cerebellar tumour. But in the paralysis following diphtheria the soft palate is nearly always, and ciliary muscles are frequently affected, there is rarely vomiting (apart from cardiac complications), and there is never optic neuritis or atrophy. On the other hand there is often some disturbance of the cardiac and respiratory rhythm. Prognosis.—The most important factors in prognosis are the age of the patient, the locality of the disease, and very often the duration of the disease before medical advice has been sought. With respect to age the younger the patient the greater tlie probability of a fatal termination. As to locality those cases are most fatal in which the larynx is involved. Cases in which the nasal passages only are affected are the least fatal. In laryngeal diphtheria the gravest apprehension is to be entertained in very j^oung children on the one hand and adults on the other. Vulval diphtheria is usually accompanied by severe constitutional symptoms. In ocular diphtheria the chief risk is to the eyeball. The previous duration of the disease before medical advice has been taken has greater effect upon the prognosis in cases treated with anti- toxin than in tliose not. The earlier the patient is injected with serum the more confidently can not only recovery, but recovery without the occurrence of serious complications, especially paralysis, be anticipated. Of particular symp- toms the following are very ominous :—P'rcquent vomiting or retching, a pulse-i'ate falling to below 50 per minute, marked cardiac irregularity, hitmorrhages from mucous membranes and, even though few, into the skin and subcutaneous tissue, suppression of urine, convulsions. Those cases in which there is extensive and persistent local exudation, with niuch albumin- uria, furnish the most severe cases of paralysis. The more widely spread the paralysis, and the more rapidly it becomes generalised, the greater is the danger to life. Affection of the respira- tory muscles is especially dangerous. Attacks of