466 EAR, EXAMINATION OF repeated inflation is only required for one ear. Undue stretching of tlie structures in the normal tympanic cavity may to some extent be lessened by the patient inserting his finger into the external auditory meatus during the act. Ear, Local Anaesthetics.—To induce local aufesthesia for operations on the ear, the two drugs most commonly employed are cocaine and eucaine. The aural operations for which local anses- thesia may be required may be grouped as follows:— A. On the External Ear.—Removal of cysts or small new growths from the pinna or outer part of the external meatus. Opening of furuncles. Curetting of granulations, etc. B. On the Middle Ear. — Paracentesis of the membrana tympani. Removal of polypi. Curetting. (Ossiculectomy, simple opening of . the mastoid ; radical mastoid operation.) For the removal of cysts, etc., from the pinna or outer part of the external meatus eucaine may be used by injection. Local antesthesia by freezing, hj means of ether or other sprays, has been employed, but, owing to the structure and blood-supply of the auricle, is not to be recom- mended. Cocaine may be used by injection (in solutions of 5 per cent), but eucaine is prob- ably the safer drug. Moreover, eucaine can be sterilised by boiling without undergoing decom- position, an advantage not possessed by cocaine. /3-eucaineis soluble to the extent of 10 per cent, and, since its toxic effects are practically nil, there is no advantage in using any weaker solution. This solution should be injected by means of a sterilised hypodermic syringe into and beneath the skin at the site of tumours, etc., and ten to twenty minutes allowed to elapse before proceeding to operate. For the opening of furuncles and the curetting of granulations, eucaine or cocaine may be used by instillation. This method is carried out as follows :—The patient lies upon the sound side, with the ear to be anaesthetised uppermost. The solution of eucaine or cocaine, comfortably warmed, is then dropped into the meatus until that passage is full, and is retained for ten minutes. When the patient rises a pad of wool should be placed over the ear to absorb the superfluous fliiid. This method may be used for the opening of furuncles, incisions into the meatus, the curetting- of granulations from either meatus or tympanum, and for paracentesis of the membrane. The above methods are, however, unsatis- factory at the best. The personal factor is so variable as regards the local ana3sthetisation of skin surfaces that results ranging from good ansesthesia to nil will be met with. The intact membrana tympani, being covered with skin, in continuity with that of the meatus, is practically non-absorbent and, therefore, offers the greatest obstacle to efficient local ansesthesia. Attempts to obtain the latter by means of agents which corrode the superficial epidermis have resulted in such mixtures as one of equal parts of cocaine hydrochloride, concentrated carbolic acid, and menthol. This method is, how'ever, only rela- tively successful. Shortly after this article was written for the first edition. Gray of Glasgow, taking advan- tage of the penetrating properties of aniline oil, introduced the solution known by his name. " Gray's solution" consists of cocaine hydro- chloride, 0'5 ; aniline oil, absolute alcohol, aa 50. But aniline oil being poisonous, instances of untoward results from its use have not been infrequent. A better method than any of the above lies in the local application of dry crystals of cocaine on the end of a probe. Since 1903, a modification of Schleich's method has been used in Politzcr's Clinic at Vienna, and the woi'kers there claim results so satisfactory as to justify the abandoning of general anaesthesia in a majority of cases. This method can be used for the removal of ossicles and even for the radical mastoid operation. In this country, however, it will probably be long before otologists will operate in this manner by preference. It is stated that the haemorrhage attending operations by this method is so in- significant as to make it a distinct advantage. Schleich's solution is a mixture of 1 per cent warm cocaine solution with five drops of tonogen (the trade name applied to Richter's extract of suprarenal gland. Tonogen corresponds to the "adrenalin" of Park, Davis and Co.) to each cubic centimetre of cocaine solution. This mixture is injected under the periosteum by means of a special syringe. A full account of the technique to be carried out in operating upon the ear by this method is too long for insertion here; any abridgment would make the description inadequate. Two papers by Messrs. Seymour Jones and Stoddart Barr will be found in The Trans, of the Otological Society of the United Kingdom, vol. vi. pp. 127-136, in which the matter is dealt with clearly and fully. External Ear, Diseases of. (Auricle and External Auditory Meatus.) Anatomical and Physiological Observa- tions ...... 467 Diseases of the Auricle . . . 468 Traumatic Affections .... 468 Malformations ..... 468 Cutaneous Affections .... 469 Morbid Growths ..... 470 Diseases of the External Meatus . . 470 Abnormal States of the Cerumen . . 470 Foreign Bodies . . . . .472 Fu/runculi or Circumscribed Inflamma- tion ...... 473