DISINFECTION 407 Scarlatina.—Eight or ten weeks from the appearance of the ra«h, desquamation having ceased, and so long after that as the tlu'oat is not perfectly healthy, or there is any discharge from the nose or ears. Measles and Rubella.—Three weeks from invasion, pi'ovided all cough, etc., have ceased. Mumps.—Four weeks, all swelling having disappeared. Whoopiny-mucjh.—Six weeks from the recog- nition of the cougli, if it have entirely lost its spasmodic character, or four if all cough what- ever have ceased. Diphtheria. — Four, or perhaps in very mild cases three weeks, provided there be no albuminuria or discharge from nose or ear, the patient be practically well, and the throat appear perfectly healthy. A bacteriological examination of the pharyngeal mucus slioidd be made on several consecutive days, for the bacilli may remain for some time virulent towards other persons, though inert towards the bearer. Smallpox.—When all scabs have fallen and the scars have healed. In the case of the last two we have it in our power to protect susceptible persons from infec- tion, viz. vaccination or revaccination against smallpox; and prophylactic injections of anti- toxin against diphtheria, the innnunity conferred by these last persisting for about a month. The earliest commencement of infectivity is a question of some practical importance, especi- ally in the suppression of epidemics in schools. There is no evidence of the communicability of any acute specifics during the purely incubative period, while as yet there are no objective symptoms, but it probably begins with the very earliest manifestation. AH susceptible persons who have associated with the sick, on or sub- sequent to the first day of the invasion, should be suspects and put in quai-antine, though when the disease is one with a long incubation, the isolation need not be enforced until the week following exposure. The infectivity is, however, but feeble, and prompt separation is, as a rule, successful, except witli measles, in which infec- tion mostly takes place before its nature is suspected. The evacuations of enteric fever and of cholera are infective when only a slight looseness is observed. II. Disinfection and Disinfectants Disinfection. —(ieneral practical disinfecting processes are directed to—(1) the destruction of all microbes deposited with the dust on all surfaces and projections, and in crevices and recesses on or in the walls, floors, ceilings, furniture, etc., of rooms, or adliering to or con- tained in furniture, carpets, curtains, decorations, etc., of rooms, as well as clothing and otlier domestic articles; (2) the destruction of tlie infectivity of excreta and expectoration; (.3) preventing the spread of infection by persons ; and (4) destroying in situ such microbes as, though pathogenic, have also an extra-corporeal or saprophytic existence. The removal of ofl^ensive odours and the pre- vention of putrefaction have a certain and occasional value, but there can be no greater error than the poj^ular confusion of deodorants, and even of antiseptics, with disinfectants— that is to say, with germicides—although some bodies partake of the properties of more than one of these groups. Deodorants that simply overpower an ill odour by substituting an agreeable one are worse than useless, those only having any real value that break up offensive and injurious volatile bodies, as hydrogen or ammonium sulphides, and com- bining with some or all of their molecules, fix them in inert and inodorous compounds, and those which, giving off" nascent oxygen to organic matter in a state of incipient decom- position or unstable equilibrium, oxidise it witli such rapidity that the process has been aptly termed " wet combustion." These are repre- sented resjjcctively by the actions of chlorine, and of permanganate of potash and peroxide of hydrogen. The latter, being mere oxidisers, have little action on living bacteria. They have been fully discussed in tlie article " Anti- septic Treatment of Wounds" in vol. i. p. 299. Disinfectants, in the restricted sense that the word has now acquired, are germicides, i.e. bodies capable of killing bacteria; and, in practice, sucli only as do so effectually mvX per- manently ; for one that does not, fails altogether to fulfil its purpose. Their absolute and relative values must be learnt by laboratory experiments conducted on strict scientific metliods, but in applying the conclusions thus arrived at to actual practice one must talce account of the different conditions under which they are emplo^'ed, and of the distur-bing factors which, rightly excluded from the laboratory, have to be reclconed with else- where. It is not enough to know that a substance is a germicide; one must know and must use it in the recjuisite quantities and degree of con- centration ; nay more, one must make sure that it comes into actual contact with the whole of the bacteria. Very few indeed of so-called disinfections fulfil all these conditions, and if they fail in one, they are but illusions and shams, little if at all better than the perfunctory fumigation of travellers and their luggage that until recently satisfied the officials in some countries. Thus tlie 1 lb. of sulphur, or 11 cubic feet of sulphurous acid gas per 1000 cubic feet of sjaace, now prescribed for the dis- infection of rooms, is based on Koch's observa- tion that an atmosphere containing 1 per cent of the gas was fatal to all bacteria in tliirty minutes, though not to their spores.