61 CATARACT common to talk of cataract developing when the intransparencies in the lens are of the nature of progressive degenei'ative changes. From a diagnostic point of view it is often important to distinguish between the "sta- tionary " varieties of cataract in the technical sense and the " progressive" forms. The former are also called " partial" cataracts, whilst the latter eventually become " total," or practically total, cataracts. Formation op Cataract.—The loss of trans- parency which causes a progressive cataract is invariably the result of some degenerative change. The extent, moreover, to which these degenerative changes go leads to different appearances. There thus come to be distin- guished a number of different varieties of total cataract. Only comparatively few of these varieties have any practical importance. Tiie importance which may attach to them prac- tically has reference to the selection of the most suitable operation for their removal, and consequently also to some extent to the prognosis of the result of operative interference. A number of terms are in nse to designate the stage at which a progressive cataract has arrived. Thus in any particular case the cataract may be " incipient," " advanced," "ripe," or "over-ripe." The meaning of the first two terms is self-evident. A cataract is ripe when the whole of the lens has lost its normal transparency. As a rule the sclerosed central portion of the lens, which is met with after the age of about thirty, and which forms as age advances a greater and greater propor- tion of the whole lens, the so-called " nucleus " of the lens, does not at first participate in the loss of transjDarency. It is therefore the totality of the surrounding and more superficial or " cortical" portion of the lens which is the site of a degeneration causing the transparency to l)e lost. When the whole " cortex" has become in- transparent, then the cataract is said to be ripe. The term " ripe" has reference to the circumstance that the lens proper is then readily removed out of its capsule like a ripe nut from its shell. The further progression of the degenerative changes which have caused the total intrans- parency lead to over-ripe cataract. Thus the cortex may become liquefied or cretaceous. In addition, the lens capsule may in part (over an area corresponding to that left uncovered by a semi-dilated pupil) participate in the loss of transparency or the suspensory ligament of the lens undergo degenerative changes. These latter changes are of importance from the point of view of treatment. When once the lens cortex has lost its transparency, it is extremely rare that the transparency is regained. Practically speaking, there is therefore no cure for cataract in the sense that the eye can recover its normal condition. Absorption of the altered lens sub- stance may, however, take place spontaneously. In many cases this can be induced by surgical interference. When the intransparent lens is thus got rid of by absorption, the obstacle to the formation of retinal images is removed and sight is restored. The optical; condition of the eye is, however, different from what it was with the transpai'ent lines in situ. Generally the new condition is one which admits of less sharp retinal images. Sharp vision can then generally o\\\y be got by means of a glass. The object of most cataract operations is to get rid of the intransparent lens. In all cases of total cataract this is necessary. Cataract may be either traumatic or idio- pathic. However arising, it is essentially due to some defect in the nutrition of the lens fibres. Traumatic Cataract is either the direct result of some interruption in the integrity of the lens capsule, or the indirect result of injury to other parts of the eye. In the first case the loss of transparency of the crystalline lens is due to its coming into direct contact with the aqueous humour. In the second case the injury to deeper parts of the eye leads to intraocular changes, with which are associated changes in the character or in the amount of the nutrient liquids which percolate the lens. In order that the lens may remain trans- parent, it is necessary that the lens capsule should be normal. The smallest breach in continuity of this membrane leads to intrans- parency. A cataract caused by a wound of the capgide makes its first appearance very soon, in a few hours at most, after the injury, and afterwards develops more or less rapidly according to circumstances. Very rarely, and only in cases in which the laceration of the capsule is very minute and has rapidly cicatrised, the intrans- parency of the lens which follows may remain partial, or even slowly disappear altogether. This rare result is only met with too in young children. The laceration of the lens capsule is usually caused by a perforating wound of the eye. Occasionally a sharp blow on the eye may cause a rupture of the capsule, and the result is similar, viz. an immediate loss of transparency of the lens. Such cases of capsular injury, either by per- foration or rupture, cause, then, what may be called a direct traumatic cataract. In other injuries to the eye unassociated with injury to the capsule, the cataract which may follow is " indirect." An indirect traumatic cataract only makes its appearance weeks or months after the injury. Idiopathic Cataract again may be either " primary " and uncomplicated, or " secondary "