DYSP patient and by analysis of the points made out on extra auscultation. Thus, if there be any obstruction in the nose or naso-pharynx the respiration is of a noisy character, usually de- scril)ed as snuffling, and the voice is more or less nasal in quality. In cases of obstruction due to post-nasal growths (adenoids) the history of the case and general physiognomy of the patient will assist diagnosis. If the pharynx be the seat of obstruction the breathing is also markedly rough in character, the voice is thick, and deglutition impaired. When the seat of obstruction is in the larynx the quality of the sound is markedly different, Vjeing loud and stridulous in character, especially inspiration. The dyspna^as dependent upon obstruction in the trachea or larger lironclii are similar, and altluMigh respiration lie noisy, it lacks the stridulous character of laryngeal obstruction. The causes of respiratory difficulty are here usually enlargement of the bronchial or medias- tinal glands from tuberculous disease or malig- nant growth and aneurysm of the aorta. The rarer causes met with in children ai'e enlarge- ment of the thymus gland or abscess in the posterior mediastinum, which may be secondary to disease of the dorsal vertebrte. The diagnosis of tracheal or bronchial dyspnoja can usually be made after a careful study of the physical signs in the two sides of the chest, special attention l)eing paid to a comparison of the amount of air entering each lung and to any alterations in the quality of the respiratory murmur on the two sides. Additional evidence may also be obtained from the nature of the cough, especially if this is considered along with the results of laryngoscopic examination. Expiratory Dyspnoea.—This is specially char- acteristic of emphysema and asthma, and its nature can readily be determined on extra auscultation. In some cases it is laryngeal in origin, as, for instance, when due to a pedun- culated subglottic tumoiu'. A few cases have l)een recorded where pronounced expiratoiy dyspnoea in young children has been found post-mortem to be dependent upon enlargement of the bronchial glands. Such cases are excep- tional, and while their explanation is not very satisfactory the fact of their occurrence should be borne in mind. The dinfinosis of this form of dyspnosa can usually be arrived at from extra auscultation, and can be contirnied by finding the physical signs of emphysema and asthma. Reference ought also to be made to the very rare form of dyspnoea, both inspiratory and expiratory, met with in cases of gross lesions of tlie muscles, e.g. pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, and from certain injuries or diseases of the spinal cord. A diagnodn caia usually be arri\'ed at by a careful investigation of each part of the respira- tory tract. Tliis will in many cases include NCEA 453 anterior and posterior rhinoscopy, digital ex- ploration of the naso-pharynx, the use of the laryngoscope, and a careful physical examina- tion of the chest, especially with a view of detecting physical signs dependent on pressure on the trachea, one or other bronchus, or other structures at the root of one lung. A useful point in differential diagnosis between laryngeal and tracheal dyspnoea lies in the fact, that in the former the larynx makes m\ich respiratory movement, whilst in the latter it is station- ary, however great the difficulty of breathing- may be. With regard to the severity of the dyspnoea in any given case, that depends not so nuich on the degree of stenosis as on the rapidity of its development. Another question calling for investigation is the permanent or inter- mittent nature of the difficulty: if the dyspnoea be laryngeal in site and constant, a paralytic lesion is suggested, whereas if intermittent it is suggestive of spasm; assistance in diagnosis will also be obtained from a study of the voice. The absence of voice impairment, however, does not negative a paralytic lesion, as a bilateral paralysis of the abductors would not l)e associ- ated with any voice disturbance. The foregoing remarks apply particularly to the usual run of cases where a definite obstruc- tion exists to the inlet of air into the lungs or outlet of air from the lungs. Numerous other cases are encountered where the dyspncra is largely produced or aggravated by a general medical cause such as cardiac disease, renal disease, asthma, emphysema, or acute lung disease ; and in these affections we may find the exaggerated type of dyspnoea known as ortliopmea. Here the attitude is one of intense air hunger. The patient assumes the position which allows freest play to all the extraordinary muscles of respiration, and to this end he must be more or less in the upriglit posture, the posi- tion varying with the severity of the disease. We must also Ijcar in mind that mental and emotional disturbance may induce even in healthy subjects disordered respiration, and a tendency to this will be very much increased if there be present anything of the nature of an organic cardiac lesion. In this way may possibly be explained the occurrence of attacks of cardiac dyspnoea so frequently encountei'cd. AVhen dealing with dyspna\a associated with general cardio-vascular disturbance, the allied symptoms of palpitation and thoracic j)ain may Ije of assistance in diagnosis. Attention should also be drawn to those cases of embarrassed respiration due to mechanical disturbance from intra-abdominal causes, either of a direct mechanical .'or of a reflex nature. ByKpnrea in Children.—The same causes are at work as in the adult, but here temporary dyspnoea of a spasmodic nature due to spasm of the glottis is much more frequent. There is