SUPPURATION AND SEQUEL/E EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC 493 tlicir division may be followed by improvement, and even in ca«es where there is an accompany- ing diminntion in bone - conduction, whicli, under such circumstances, is pruljably due to temporary increase of intra-labyrinthine tension. TitEATMEXT.—To successfuUy treat chronic siippux-ative middle ear disease the guiding principles shoidd be the obtaining of (1) efficient drainage, and (2) surgical cleanliness. (1) To secure free drainage, small perfora- tions may have to be enlarged, especially when situated in the upper segments of the mem- brane. Tufts of granulation tissue and polypi demand early removal. Due attention should also be paid to securing a free action of the Eustachian tube by the removal of post-nasal adenoids or other post-nasal growths, and by attention to any morbid condition of the nasal or pharyngeal mucosa likely to keep up a catarrhal state of the surrounding tissues. To cleanse the cavity of the middle ear the following plan may be adopted with advantage:— (1) Inflation of the middle ear. (2) Syringing of the external meatus with a suitable antiseptic lotion or with sterilised ■water. (3) Suction by means of Siegle's speculum. (4) Inflation again. (T)) Syringing or drying witli an antiseptic wool. After careful cleansing, one of several methods may be adojjted with the idea of restoring the tympanic mucosa to a healthy state. These metliods are— (1) The employment of fluid remedies in the form of drops or lotions. (2) The dry method of treatment by means of insufflation of finely pulverised powders. (3) The aspiration method by means of gauze tampons. Fluid remedies, from the fact that they are easy of application, are the most frequently em- ployed. To ensure their successful action the lotion introduced into the external meatus (after preliminary cleansing) should be allowed to remain in contact with the tissues for from ten to fifteen minutes two or three times daily. Such drugs as carbolic acid, resorcin, sulpho- carbolate of copper or of zinc, alum, nitrate of silver, boracic acid, acetate of lead, bichloride of mercury, peroxide of hydrogen, etc., may be used with advantage. So long as a perforation is open, it is advisable to keep a film of anti- septic wool or gauze in the meatus, to prevent aerial contamination of the part, to ward off cold, and to assist in drainage. The insufflation of powders (boric acid, iodo- form, europhen, aristol, etc.) is useful in cases where the perforation is large and where the amount of discharge is small. After careful cleansing and drying of the part, the powder should be insufflated by means of one of the many insufflators in use for such a purpose, and should be repeated at least once in every twenty-four hours until the discharge has practically ceased. Where small perforations exist, or w here the discharge is copious, this method of treatment is contra-indicated. The employment of gauze tampons acts admirably in many cases. When a strip of such a gauze as iodoform or double cyanide is carefully packed into the external meatus, and so down upon the perforated membrane, the capillary action of its fine fibrils sucks up dis- charge from the middle ear and so acts as a continuous drain, besides protecting the parts from aerial contamination—a most important j)roperty. Sucli gauze tampons should be in- troduced as often as they get soaked. They are most suitable in cases where the amount of discharge is not very copious, and are unsuitable in acute cases and cases where there is an accompanying otitis externa. CojirLiCATiONS OF Chroxic Suppurative Middle Ear Disease Gramdations.—These are hyperplastic growths resulting from an over-growth of the tissues of the tympanic mucosa, the result of long-con- tinued congestion. They vary in size from minute excrescences to masses which block up the middle ear, protrude through the perforated membrane, and conceal the edges of the per- foration in whole or in part, and are frequently associated with an underlying carious condition of some portion of the tympanic parietes. When hanging from the tegmen tympani they must be carefully distinguished from granula- tion tissue masses attached to the dura mater and projecting into the cavity of the middle ear through carious defects in its bony roof. Polypi result also from long-continued irrita- tion, the consequence of chronic congestion or suppurative inflammation of the tympanic nuicosa. They may be classified as follows :— (1) Mucous; (2) fibrous; (3) myxomatous; (4) angiomatous ; (5) malignant. (1) The mucous variety is by far the com- monest form of polypus met with. In size such growths vary immensely, being at times quite small and nodular, at other times occupying the whole of the external auditory meatus, conceal- ing the membrane entirely from view, and even jjrojecting externally. Microscopically they consist of numerous small round cells, connec- tive tissue fibres, thin-walled blood-vessels, and glands. Towards its point of origin the polypus is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, but towards the surface these columnar ciliated cells are replaced by a stratified epithelial layer. Polypi may be attached to the parietes of the middle ear by one or two roots, and usually spring from cither the posterior or the internal wall. At times they arise from the edges of a