U3 CHOROID, DISEASES OF ophthalmoscopic condition may remain for some weeks after the subsidence of active inflamma- tory changes; eventually, however, the eyeball is sure to shi'ink, become puckered and hardened, and in some cases the choroid will undergo ossification. Microscopically the choroid will be found to be greatly thickened and exceedingly cellular, the cells aggregating into clusters which form small abscesses; these soon coalesce and con- vert the choroid into a diffuse suppurative tract. The inflammatory changes in the iris, ciliary body, retina, and vitreous are similar to the microscopical characters of inflammation found in other parts of the body. It is advisable to mention, however, that the partially organised exudation in the ciliary body looks under the microscope not luiiike a. melanotic sarcoma, on account of the complete derangement and multiplication of the pigment-cells. The clinical history, together with the condition of the vessel-walls, will explain, however, its nature. In metastatic choroiditis it is often possible to find the infecting emboli, which can be shown to contain pyogenic organisms, the streptococci being the most common. Diagnosis.—'Yhe main difficulty is to dis- tinguish between a chronic and subacute form of suppTirative choroiditis and certain intra- ocular growths, of which glioma is much the most common. The diagnosis depends chiefly on the history, the presence or absence of recent inflammatory signs, and the tension of the gloV)e. Suppurative choroiditis is usually preceded by a perforating injury, or by a severe illness such as a specific fever. Again, signs of recent iritis will be seen; and, lastly, intra- ocular neoplasms, though at first they may be present in a globe of normal tension, soon produce a rise of tension with all the signs of secondary glaucoma—suppurative choroiditis, on the other hand, causing a fall in the tension. Other points to help will be the age of the patient, glioma only occurring in young children, and the appearance of the reflex, which is of a much more glistening appearance in glioma than in pseudo-glioma. Prognosis.—The diseased eye is sure to be lost, so far as sight is concerned, and will in- evitably pass into a state of atrophy. In all cases the question of sympathetic inflammation in the other eye has to be carefully considered (.see " Sympathetic Ophthalmitis "). Treatment.—Local leeching, hot fomentations, combined with morphia, either hypodermically or by the mouth, are useful in allaying pain. As soon as pus is evidently accumulating in or behind the aqueous chamber prompt surgical interference is indicated. If the eye be left to itself there is considerable risk of the inflam- mation extending along the optic nerve to the brain and its membranes, and so causing a fatal termination. Excision of the globe is, in my opinion, the best and safest way of treating this severe condition, great pains being taken after the enucleation to treat the socket antiseptically. Some sui'geons, however, are doubtful as to the propriety of removing an eye whilst in this in- flamed and suppurating condition, and prefer first to make an incision through the anterior part of the globe so as to relieve pain, tension, etc., and to give a free outlet to the pus, postponing the excision until the inflammatory symptoms have subsided. Irido-Ghoroiditis (uveitis) is an inflammatory condition involving the whole uveal tract. It may be acute or chronic Acute Irido-Choroiditis is either suppurative {see " Suppurative Choroiditis") or sero-plastic {see " Sympathetic Opthalmitis "). Chronic irido-choroiditis attacks each part of the uveal tract either simultaneously or suc- cessively. It is very often preceded by an acute attack of iritis or choroiditis. Subacute exacerbations occur from time to time. Its tendency to relapse is its predominating feature ; years may pass away before there is a per- manent cessation of inflammatory symptoms. The prevailing clinical features are evidences of iritis, cyclitis, and choroiditis, such as posterior synechias or pigment on the lens capsule; thin- ning of the iritic tissue, so that in some cases the dull choroidal reflex may be seen through the reticulum of the iris, as if through a curtain ; thinning of the sclera over the ciliary body, from chronic cyclitis, which allows the blue ciliary body to be seen through; eventually a ciliary staphyloma may appear. Numerous and large vitreous opacities are seen ; and, if the vitreous is not too cloudy, patches of choroiditis and choroidal atrophy, with general thinning of the choroid, may be made out. Posterior polar cataract or irregular opacities in the lens are not uncommon, and at last the whole lens may become cataractous. Subjective signs are present, namely, defective vision, sometimes amoxmting to bare perception of light, phosphenes, dull aching pains in the eyes, etc. The tension is usually slightly raised at first, but soon becomes subnormal (T-1 or T-2). The prognosis is unfavourable. The disease is usually symmetrical, and complete blindness will almost certainly ensue sooner or later. Treatment.—Little can be done beyond treat- ing the symptoms and supporting the general health. Iodide of potassium assists in some cases, chiefly on account of its alterative action and its powers in aiding the absorption of all chronic inflammatory exudations. Mercurial inunctions are also useful for the same purpose. Iritis must be treated in the early stage by instilling atropine. Increase of tension is rarely present,"and certainly is never sufficiently pro- nounced to necessitate operative interference. Retino-Ciioroiditis.—There is almost always some accompanying retinitis with all cases of