CRETINISM 250 unknown in Great Britain, but a few cases are to be met with, especially in Derbyshire, Somersetshire, Yorkshire, and AVestmoreland. It occurs to a considerable extent in the moun- tainous regions of Europe, especially in Switzer- land, France, and Italy, and has been reported as prevalent in various parts of North and South America, China, India, Madagascar, etc. Sporadic cretinism is a comparatively rare disease, but cases of it have been reported from nearly every quarter of the world. There seems no reason to connect its occurrence with the physical characters of the district in which it is found. Description.—Infancy.—Even in severe cases of cretinism there seems to be very little wrong with the child at birth. If the mother is ob- servant, however, she soon notices that the baby is backward and apathetic—crying and laughing verj' little, and that the bowels ai'e obstinately constipated, also often that the tongue seems too large. On e.mmining the infant ci'etin we are struck by his puffy, expressionless face and wrinkled forehead (Fig. 1), and on measurement he is found to be undergrown, although as yet there is no noticeable disproportion between the trunk, head, and limbs. His hands are char- acteristically broad and short. The temperature is subnormal. The thyroid is generally absent in sporadic cases, while in the endemic form there is usually a goitre. Childhood and Youth.—As the child grows older his development lags behind, and the characteristic cretinous appearance becomes Fig. 1. steadily more striking. The myxoedematous swelling increases in the face and elsewhere. the belly becomes more prominent, and marked lordosis develops. There is generally an um- bilical hernia. Circumscribed fatty swellings appear above the clavicles and in front of the axillfe. The dryness of the skin increases, and the hair is very scanty and dry. The fontanelle remains widely open. The milk-teeth may or may not be delayed in appearance, but generally they remain too long in the gum, and they may all be present even as late as the eighteenth year. The child's growth and activity are greatly interfered with, so that at ten or twelve years old he often has the size and the feebleness of a boy of three or four. The mental condition in an ordinarily severe case of the disease is that of imbecility, but in slighter forms of the disease the child seems merely backward. He is dull and apathetic, slow of movement and of apprehension, but neat and tidy in his ways, and docile and quiet if not teased. Speech is generally long of being acquired, and the words used are few. Adult Age.—In spite of their debility, cretins not infrequently live to forty, fifty, or even sixty years old. The adult cretin shows the disease in its most marked form (Fig. 2). He is gener- ally about three feet in height, with large brachycephalic head, thick dry redundant skin, scanty coarse hair, and an open fontanelle. His trunk is stunted, and he has marked lordosis and a prominent belly ; there is often also lateral curvature. The limbs are short and thick-set, with prominent hard muscles. The gait is very feeble and waddling. The extremities are always cold. There is little or no pubic or axillary hair. In the male the external genitals are like those of a child, while in the female the breasts remain quite inideveloped. Menstruation is very late of appealing and very irregular, if it comes at all. In the few cases in which preg- nancy and delivery have taken place, the infant, although not myxoedematous, has been atrophied or hydrocephalic at birth, and has died soon after. The cretin's mental condition does not improve as age advances. Although very dull, he imderstands and observes more than he appears to, but he has little or no initiative. His interests are exceedingly limited. He is shy, morbid, and solitary. During recent years a number of slighter cases have been described by Hertoghe and others as really instances of cretinism, although they lack many of the usual symptoms. In these there is little beyond stunted growth, delayed closure of the fontanelle, and some degree of mental dulness. The confirmation of the diagnosis is to be sought in the marked im- provement which follows thyroid treatment. Diagnosis.—The two morbid conditions most apt to be mistaken for cretinism are achondro- plasia and the so-called " Mongolian" type of imbecility. The resemblance which achondroplasic dwarfs