149 CICATRICES when only the papillary layers or part of them are destroyed. The cicatrix is broad ; it is thin and parch- ment-like, of a li<;ht colour, mottled on the surface. The surface is uneven, and marked with ridges. Such a cicatrix may be seen after extensive burns of the front of the neck and thorax, and causes dragging down of the jaw, eversion of the lower lip, and constant dribbling of saliva, which is apt to cause superficial ulceration of the scar. If on the face, they cause ectropion or anchylosis of the jaw, and when in the neighbourhood of the natural orifices have caused their distortion or partial closure. When occurring in flexures they tend to cause adhesions in the angle, and the parts become firmly connected by a strong prominent cicatrix, the so-called vicious bridle. Examples of such cicatrices are seen in the axilla—connecting the arm to the trunk, in the bend of the elbow, causing persistent flexure, or in the hands and feet, causing distortion or adhesion of the digits. If possible, treatment should be begun early in cicatrisation, before contraction has taken place, by splints and extension apparatus. If cicatrisation is complete, treatment usually consists in dividing the cicatrix completely, either transversely or in a V-shaped manner, stretching it and filling up the gap thus caused by skin-grafts. In making the incision it is well to remember that important nerves and vessels may be involved in or adherent to the cicatrix. Simple extension, compression, and massage of the cicatrix or painting it with iodine have also been reconmaended with the view of increasing vascularity and promoting absorption, but such measures are never wholly successful. Hebi'a recommends subcutaneous injection of a 15 per cent alcoholic solution of thiosinamin, but ex- perience of this remedy is limited. (6) In the depressed, adherent scar, treatment consists in dividing the band of attachment, by means of a tenetome passed in from the edge, and raising the scar. Less active measures, with a view to increasing the vascularity and promoting absorption, are never wholly suc- cessful. When it results from a scrofulous (tuV»er- culous) gland, Adam's operation {Brit. Med. Journal, 1876) may be employed. After freeing the cicatrix from the side, he passes two hare-lip pins, at right angles to each other, under it so as to raise it. After three days, during which the scar tissue has become swollen and succulent, and the space beneath filled with blood clot, he removes them. The scar subsides to the level of the skin without re-forming adhesions. Cicatrices may also cause deformity by yield- ing to pressure from beneath, as in those following laparotomies, when ventral hernia may result. 4. Painful Cicatrices.—Pain may be present in any cicatrix, but is most common in those of amputation wounds. The pain is caused by inclusion of the nerves in, or their adhesion to, the cicatricial tissue. Some authors say that the pain is caused by neuritis dependent on the contraction of the scar. NeuraU/ia of the Cicatrix.—In this case the pain, which is paroxysmal, is generally due to some constitutional condition affecting a cicatrix in itself healthy. It may persist in spite of operative interference. Treatment. — Free adhesions in case of de- pressed or adherent cicatrices. If the cicatrix be small, excise it altogether and slide a flap of skin over it. If the cicatrix be extensive, neurotomy, neurectomy, or nerve - stretching may be useful. Where there is no abrasion of the surface, in the case of a small, painful cicatrix, ointment of aconitine (1 gr. to ^i.) is of use as a palliative ; or, if broad, it may be protected by simple plaster, or emplastrum opii, or may be simply covered with cotton-wool. 5. Discoloured Cicatrices.—The cicatrices from old chronic and varicose ulcers have always a permanent brown colour. Large scrofulous cicatrices have an unsightly livid tint. Foreign matter may Ijc present, such as unconsumed grains of gunpowder in cases where the injury has been caused by an explosion, or in tattooing. Occasional corneal opacities are due to the presence of reduced silver, where the preceding ulcer has been treated with silver nitrate. These discolorations occasionally require treat- ment when on exposed surfaces. Keloid, or Cheloid is a comparatively rare fibrous new growth of the skin which usually develops in an old cicatrix. It was first described by Alibert in 1810. Keloid was formerly divided into true or spontaneous and false or cicatricial keloid, but this distinction is no longer generally held, as most of those termed spontaneous probably develop in minute scars, such as are left by acne pustules. Histologically they are identical. The etiology is practically unknown. Its growth seems to be dependent on some con- stitutional state ; for example, it is very frequently associated with the tuberculous diathesis. It is more common in negroes than in white men, and it may occur in more than one member of the same family. All grades of society are liable to it, both sexes, all parts of the body, and it may occur at almost all periods of life. Morrow states that in his experience it is more common between 30 and 50 years. Keloid often develops in scars which have been unduly irritated, and it may develop in a healthy scar long after this is fully formed.