EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC NON-SUPPURATIVE DISEASE 512 contraction together. This is a common period for patients to present themselves for treat- ment, as they find that the deafness, which they thought would pass oil" in time, has not only persisted, but is gradually getting worse. Syniptovis and Signs.—;The liistory of these patients, usually young adults, is that deafness has persisted after a cold or series of colds, or has gradually come on since ; or that in child- hood occasional deafness was noticed, with a history that points strongly to the fact that adenoids were present at that period. In fact they often present the appearance due to chronic nasal obstruction. They also state that they are worse with every cold, with perhaps marked permanent deterioration. In the later stage, when far advanced, the symptom of hearing better in a noise may begin to show itself, indicating the gradual onset of the fixation stage. Deafness is well marked, both ears as a rule being affected, one, often the left, being the worse. The fact that the patient cannot hear general conversation, or when at a dinner- party^he cannot hear conversation distinctly on one side, may be the symptom which compels him to come for treatment. Tinnitus, rushing, roaring, clanging, or machinery-like in character, is often a source of great trouble, being worse when the patient is quiet, especially at night, sometimes preventing sleep. Diplacusis, usually disharmonic, is sometimes complained of. On examination the membrane is pale, often opaque, with perhaps patches of chalky deposit (phosphate of lime), the signs of depression being marked, and in the later stage the pink lining membrane cannot be seen, even if the drum is clear. On applying Siegle's speculum it will be found that the membrane and malleus do not move freely, or perhaps the posterior segment will alone be freely movable. On inflation through the catheter the air will be heard to enter with difficulty and dryly, with perhaps a whistling sound. The amount of improvement in hearing produced will vary according to how far pathological changes have jarogressed. On examining the membrane after inflation little or no alteration is seen. The nose or naso-pharynx may present some pathological condition, and it is often possible to detect, even in middle life, remains of adenoids, which if seen during a cold may be considerable in size. Prognosis.—For this we rely upon the pro- gressive character of the deafness, which is worse with each cold, and the absence of internal ear trouble as shown by the tuning-fork, etc. From the exudation stage, by the absence of moist sounds on inflation, the depression, fixa- tion, and opacity of the membrane, and the amount of improvement produced by inflation. From the last stage, by the amount of improve- ment produced by inflation, the absence of paracusis, which, though present in the later stages of contraction, appears to indicate that the final stage is being reached. T7-eatment.—If on inflation the improvement in hearing is marked, we gather that the con- traction stage has not advanced far, and we must adopt treatment which Avill, as much as possible, cut short the proliferation or limit the amount of contraction. In order to do this, definite local troubles in the naso-pharynx or nose must be removed, followed by regular inflation by means of the bag or Eustachian catheter, the intervals be- tween the inflations being judged by the length of time improvement in hearing lasts. Massage by means of Siegle's speculum or Delstanche's masseur is also useful. The chloride of am- monium inhaler and the nasal solution, with tonics and change of air to a high and dry climate, should be combined with the other treatment. If the Eustachian obstruction is a prominent feature a bougie may be passed up the tube, or paroleine may be injected through the catheter. If the results produced by this treatment are not great we must infer that contraction is well advanced; and we may have to consider, if the deafness is extreme, the question of operative treatment, which will be presently dealt with in considering the treatment of the post-catarrhal stage. Sometimes iodide of potassium in small doses, combined with ammonia given in hot water twice a day for a fortnight or three weeks, pro- duces good results. With regard to tinnitus, the treatment we have indicated will usually do as much good as is possible, as it is mechanically produced and depends on the local changes. Tonics are useful in rendering the patient more able to stand the noises ; bromide of potassium and diluted hydrobromic acid are sometimes useful as sedatives. Electricity may be tried : if at the first sitting neither the anode nor cathode alters the sound the case is unfavour- able ; but if the noises are diminished during the passage of the anodal current, the treatment is more hopeful and should be continued. (Lewis Jones, Archives of Otology, vol. xxiv.). 3. Cicatricial or Post-Catarrhal Stage.—This may be looked upon as the ultimate condition resulting from the unchecked progress of the disease, which may have occupied a longer or shorter length of time. Symptoms and Signs.—A history of gradual increasing deafness of catarrhal origin, distinctly worse on colds, imtil a pitch of deafness has arrived which, although never absolute, necessi- tates a loud voice close to the ear. Paracusis Willisii, or hearing better in a noise, is a promi- nent symptom ; this phenomenon is supposed to be due to vibration produced by jolting or by loud noises, enabling the rigid ossicular chain to more readily transfer sound waves. Occasionally the patients will state that they