286 DEFORMITIES the lateral ligaments. The latter point is most important to recognise, as npon it depends successful treatment. Treatment.—In slight cases attention to the boots, together with manipulations and the use of the malleable iron splint at night, will remed}' the trouble. But in many cases it is necessary to operate, and the writer would decry amputa- tion of the toe, as it is quite possible to remedy the trouble without this rather severe procedure. If the toe be amputated, then bunion almost inevitably follows, because the lirst toe is readily displaced outwards. The operation consists in subcutaneous section of the flexor tendon and of the lateral ligaments from the under surface of the first interphalangeal joint, and often of the extensor tendon on the dorsimi. After the opera- tion the toe is fixed to a malleable iron splint until the small wovnid is healed, and it is then gradually extended. Good broad boots should be ordered for use afterwards. Toes—Deformities of The other affections which are met with in the toes are Syndactylism, Folydactylism, Sup- pression of the Toes, and Lateral Deviation of the Toes. The latter is the result of bad boots, and may be remedied by manipulation, the wearing of a digitated sock, or by the use of a sole-plate with slots in it. In moderately severe cases the lateral ligaments may be divided, and in extreme cases amputation is necessary. Hypertrophy of the toes, generally of the first toe, is seen fi'om time to time. The hypertrophied toe is fre- quently displaced inwards or outwards. It may attain an immense size. In most cases partial or complete amputation is required eventually. The treatment of syndactylism in the toes is the same as that of the fingers, although it may be better to amputate at once. Club-Foot—Congenital Etiology.—The causation of congenital club- foot is still doubtful, although much light has been thrown upon it by the labours of R. W. Parker. The matter may be discussed under four headings : (a) arrested development of the bones of the leg ; (6) causes arising from nerve lesions; (c) mechanical causes due to malposi- tion of the foetus in utero ; (d) abnormal develop- ment of the bones of the foot, (a) In describing bow-legs it is stated that certain forms of con- genital bow-legs are accompanied by talipes equino-varus. Again, some cases of varus and equino-varus exhibit congenital absence of the tibia. But these congenital abnormalities are found in only a few of the cases of equino-varus, and cannot be the sole cause, {b) Nerve lesions. In some cases meningocele, encephalocele, hydro- cephalus, and spina bifida coexist with congenital club-foot, but these are very few in proportion, so that the nerve theory fails to explain the majority of the cases. It has been held by some that the deformity is due to partial asphyxia at birth, resulting in convulsions, but in the absence of definite examples, carefully collected and im- partially examined, this opinion cannot be advocated, (c) Mechanical causes due to mal- position or compression of foetus in utero. There is ample evidence to show that this is the prob- able explanation, and from the figures given by Parker in his work it is easy to understand that owing to intra-uterine packing the foot may during foetal life be retained in one position which becomes fixed. As a rule the position is such as to lead to some small degree of equino- varus, even in presumably normal infants, and they subsequently lose this tendency to eversion when they commence to walk. If the position is more decided, then an abnormal condition of the foot arises—either equino-varus in both feet, or equino-varus in one and equino-valgus in the other, or calcaneus in both. The most common modes of production are by accidental locking of the parts, by locking of the parts due to abnormal positions of the limbs, by exceptional positions of the limbs, independently of locking, and by congenital absence of certain bones. iThe last supposed cause {d), abnormal development of the bones of the foot, cannot clearly be estab- lished ; one can only say that the normal inversion of the lower limbs in utero persists some time after birth. The reason of the persistence is probably close intra-uterine pack- ing, and this throws us back upon Parker's observations. Forms of Congenital Cluh-Foot.—Varieties.— The most common form is talipes equino-varus. Some authors state that talipes varus is more common, but if a careful examination be made of a large number of cases it will be found that most of the so-called varus-cases have some shortening of the tendo Achillis and raising of the heel, so that really they are cases of equino- varus. And this point is proved by treatment, for until the tendo Achillis is divided, the foot cannot be fully rectified. The next most common form is calcaneo-valgus, while the pure calcaneus and pure equinus are rare; the last-named in- finitely so. In the consideration of congenital club-foot, therefore, talipes equino-varus will be described fully. Aj^pearances.—The nature of the deformity is as follows :—The heel is raised and the foot is exteiaded; that is, it is in a position of plantar flexion. The sole of the foot and the toes are adducted and brought to the middle line instead of being directed to the front. The internal border of the foot is raised to a varying degree and bent upon itself, so that it is concave. With this the adduction of the great toe is often very marked. The external border of the foot is convex, and is in contact with the ground and forms the main point of support in progression. The deformity is situated in two places : in the foot chiefly in the neighbourhood of the medio-