EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF 472 mentioned. It is undesirable to continue the syringing after the meatus is quite clear; hence it is well to examine so as to ensure that the operation shall not be continued unnecessarily. On the other hand, we must make sure that the whole of the obstruction has been removed. After the completion of the operation, any fluid which may remain in the ear is allowed to drain out, and the passage is carefully dried with absorbent cotton; it is well also that a plug of cotton-wool be worn in the meatus for some hours afterwards. Some injection of the vessels of the membrane and the inner part of the canal will be observed for a short time after syringing. Deficiency of Cerumen.—The canal of the ear is sometimes abnormally dry and destitute of cerumen, producing, it may be, a feeling of un- pleasant dryness. This may coexist with defec- tive hearing, which is, however, not a result of the lack of cerumen, but rather an indication of disease in the middle ear, probably of the sclerotic type. Treatment of the middle ear condition sometimes leads to increase of the ceruminous secretion. The sense of dryness may be alleviated by painting the walls of the meatus with vaseline or other lubricating ointment. 2. Foreign Bodtes in the Ear.—The foi-eign bodies most commonly found in the meatus are beads, stones of fruit, small buttons, peas, small stones, bits of bread, pieces of paper, fragments ■of wood or of slate pencil. They are most fre- quently found in the ears of children, and are usually introduced by the child, or a companion in play. When a child is brought in order that a foreign body be removed from the ear, we must make sure that it is really there, and must not rest satisfied luiless we actually see it. For it not infrequently happens that, although a foreign body has been introduced into the ear, it has, unknown to the patient, found its way out again. The statement of the patient must therefore always be tested by the use of the reflecting mirror and the speculum. This is in most cases very easily done by any one having moderate experience in inspecting the ear. There may, however, in some cases, be difficulties in the way of actually seeing the foreign body. It may (1) have passed or been forced into the tympanic cavity, through a perforation in the membrane ; (2) if a small object, it may be con- cealed in the depression at the inner end of the floor of the canal, especially if this be unusually deep; (3) it may be very difficult to see owing to the swollen condition of the walls of the meatus; (4) it may be embedded in cerumen ; (5) a sharp object may have penetrated the skin of the meatus. In these various conditions, the careful examination by an experienced observer, with the help of a probe or syringe, will usually overcome the difficulty. With regard to the symptoms produced by a foreign body in the ear, we must emphasise the fact that small, smooth, round bodies may re- main for many years in the meatus without provoking irritation—if undisturbed. If there be bvxt slight pressure on the walls of the meatus, the symptoms may be limited to a degree of dulness of hearing with sounding in the ear. On the other hand, if the object be larger, and especially if it has been forced deeply into the meatus, violent pain maybe excited, both from the pressure and from the inflammation which ensues. Rare cases are recorded of persistent cough, con- stant sneezing, giddiness, and vomiting, and even epileiDtiform attacks, due to foreign bodies in the ear, the symptoms disappearing after their removal. There is no doubt, however, that the most serious consequences of foreign bodies in the ear have been due to the injudi- cious or unskilful use of instruments for their removal. The author has known death itself result from such effiDrts, and he has also known grave injuries inflicted on the structures of the ear from the use of instnnnents intended to remove a foreign body, which was, however, proved to have no existence there. Removal of Foreign Bodies from the Ear.—If the foreign body be smaller than the lumen of the canal, which it usually is, and if it has not been driven in beyond the narrow part of the meatus (the isthmus), the use of a syringe and W'arm water will, in the majority of cases, ensure the expulsion of the body. If we find on examina- tion a free space between the walls of the meatus and the foreign body, the stream of warm water should be directed into it. A syringe such as that used for the removal of impacted cerumen is suitable, and the auricle should be pulled well upwards and backwards with the left hand, while the child's head is inclined somewhat downwards towards the aft'ected side, in order to assist the movement of the object outwards. AVhen the foreign body has reached the outer orifice, it can be easily removed with a small scoop. It is to be noted that, if the foreign body be a pea or other vegetable substance, it may, from absorption of the fluid, become more firmly impacted after syringing. We should therefore be prepared to use other means im- mediately after the failure of syringing. When, however, the foreign body is found to be impacted deeply in the canal, especially if it has been forced, either at its introduction or in the subsequent efforts to remove it, beyond the narrower portion of the canal, into the space where the floor dips down and the canal widens, its removal may be a matter of great difficulty. If, through inflammatory swelling of the walls of the meatus, the foreign body has become im- movably fixed, the difficulty may, for the time being, appear insupei'able. In such tightly impacted foreign bodies we should first examine carefully for any space, however small, between the foreign body and the walls of the meatus, so that a stream of water from a syringe may be directed into the space and behind the foreign