EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF 480 When occurring in this part of the body epi- thehoma usually first shows itself by a simple- looking abrasion, going on to thickening of the floor of the cartilaginous meatus. This is followed by ulceration, with surrounding swell- ing and induration, involving after a time the tragus, the mastoid tissues, and the auricle. There is a constant foetid discharge, while un- healthy-looking granulations sprout up. Pain of an intense and persistent nature is a most prominent symptom, frequently preventing any sleep. Suspicion is aroiised as to the true nature of the disease by the fact that the usual remedies have no effect on the pain, discharge, or swelling. As time goes on the whole organ of hearing becomes involved, including the Fallopian canal, while the cranial cavity is Tiltimately invaded, and the bones in the neigh- bourhood of the ear may be extensively exposed. There is facial paralysis, followed eventually by meningeal or cerebral symptoms. Death usiially results after from one to two years. Treatment.—If the case be seen in the very early stage, thorough excision of all visible dis- ease should be attempted ; but, imfortunately, before coming under observation, it has usually extended so far that operative treatment is scarcely admissible. Then regular antiseptic cleansing, with soothing remedies, is all that can be done. Ear : Afifections of Tympanic Membrane Acute Inflammation .... 480 Chronic Inflammation . . . 480 Changes resulting from Previous In- flammation . . . . .481 Neoplasms . . . . . .481 Injuries 481 Medico-Legal Aspects . . . .482 Acute Inflammation.—Acute inflammation of the tympanic membrane, or myringitis acuta, is by no means common as a primary condition. In some cases of otitis externa, and in almost all examples of otitis media, the drumhead partici- pates to some extent; but such are described under " External and Middle Ear." Apart from this, however, it sometimes happens that the membrane becomes inflamed owing to injury caused by the insertion of instruments, or by irritants such as cold or chemicals. Violent syringing is also sometimes responsible for acute myringitis. The most prominent symptom is severe pain, and this may be associated with tinnitus of a hammering character. Deafness, as we shall presently see, is not very marked when the inflammation is confined to the drum membrane; on the other hand, a certain amount of constitu- tional disturbance and fever may exist. On examining the ear the membrane is seen to be congested in the early stages, the parts chiefly affected being the immediate neighbourhood of the malleus and the periphery, while the deeper portion of the meatiis may also be involved. At a later stage the whole surface becomes uniformly reddened, and the outline of the malleus is no longer to be distinguished. Sometimes serous and htemorrhagic blisters, and even small ab- scesses, appear on the surface ; but more fre- quently, after the stage of uniform redness, the surface epithelium becomes sodden and thrown off' in white flakes. Eventually the affection may lead to perforation. The diagnosis depends upon the symptoms and the objective changes. The only cases which ought to be diagnosed as acute myringitis are those in which the above-described changes in the membrane exist, associated only with slight deafness. There is a method by which diagnosis can be assured, but which should not be employed during the acute stage, as it is then hurtful. I refer to passing the Eustachian catheter while the ear of the surgeon is con- nected with that of the patient by means of an auscultating tube. In a case of simple myrin- gitis no moist sounds will be heard on the pass- age of air, while in acute middle ear inflamma- tion these can be detected. As this proceeding increases the pain, and as it is, moreover, of no importance from a therapeutic point of view to differentiate inflammation of the drumhead alone from the same condition associated with acute otitis media, this method should not be practised. The prognosis is as a rule favourable, even if perforation has occurred. The treatment must be regulated to a great extent by the severity of the symptoms. In any case, it will be desirable to keep the patient in the house, or, if necessary, confine him to bed. Cold applications to the ear may be tried, and, if well tolerated, con- tinued, while leeching over the mastoid region undoubtedly gives relief. As a rule, however, the pain will be readily allayed by the instilla- tion of a few drops of the following solution :— Cocain. hydrochlor. Acid, carbolic . . . aa gr. v. Glycerine. . . . 3j- or a solution of menthol in paroleine up to 20 per cent may be used in the same manner. If these remedies fail to give relief, incision of the inflamed part may be desirable. Of course, if there be evidence of retained serum, blood, or pus, this indication becomes emphasised. So long as the inflammation lasts the meatus should be plugged with sterilised dressing. Chronic Inflammation of the Tympanic Membrane.—Various changes in the tympanic membrane, which may be traced to inflamma- tion, are by no means uncommon. Thus in chronic middle ear suppuration a number of different appearances may be met with. Again, in catarrhal and fibroid conditions affecting the tympanum the membrane is frequently impli- cated. All these are, however, better discussed