479 EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF men of middle age who eat and drink gener- ously. The ivory varieties are not only usually multiple in the one ear, but they are as a rule found in both ears. The softer or pedunculated variety has, no doubt, in most cases, its origin in irritation or inflammation of the posterior wall of the meatus, secondary, in most cases, to an inflammatory process in the mastoid cells, which has led to j^eriosteal thickening or a small abscess. It is supposed that granulation tissue first forms, which gradually undergoes a process of ossification. It seems probable that the frequent entrance of cold water into the ear tends to lead to these growths ; and we often find on inquiry that jDatients with aural exostoses have been much in the habit of diving in water during the earlier periods of their lives. It has been found by Blake and others that the crania of the aboriginal inhabitants of America, who lived on river banks, show the presence of exostoses in the ears remark- ably frequently, the explanation being that they spent much of their time in the water. Aural exostoses are also said to be common amongst the South Sea Islanders, who are notable divers in the sea. Symxdoms and Course.—Am-al exostoses are frequently found in persons who are not con- scious of anything being wrong with the ear. The patient may come to the surgeon owing to deafness due to some other cause, when the presence of these growths is incidentally found by the surgeon. In these cases the surgeon may see several knob-like projections, of ivory hardness, pale in colour, very sensitive to the touch of a probe, and existing in both ears. There is usually a space between their apices, through which a portion of the tympanic mem- brane may be seen. This space may, however, at some time or other become closed by epi- dermic or ceruminous collections, causing deaf- ness, which brings the patient for advice. The pedunculated variety, spiinging from the bony back wall near its junction with the cartilaginous, is more likely to go on to complete closure of the meatus, the skin covering it becoming slightly red and thickened. When complete closure takes place pain may be excited, and there is serious impairment of hearing. It is self-evident that, when the meatus is quite blocked by the growth, the occurrence of a purulent disease in the middle ear might lead to grave consequences. The presence of exostoses is usually easily determined by the cautious use of the probe, with good reflected light, when they are distin- guished by their hardness, comparative paleness, and circumscribed form. An exostosis may in some cases be confounded with a furunculus in the ear, but only by inexperienced observers. Treatment of Aural Exostosis.—In many cases, where the growths do not close the meatus, no treatment need be adopted. The contracted lumen is, however, apt from time to time to be completely closed by epidermic or ceruminous collection, producing deafness. These should be removed as described at p. 471. The softening and removal of the masses situated beyond the exostosis may be facilitated by syringing through a fine elastic tube introduced through the nar- row space. In this Avay operative treatment may be indefinitely postponed. If a purulent condition exists, either in the middle ear or in the meatus itself, appropriate treatment should be employed. When the meatus becomes en- tirely blocked by the bony growths, operative treatment is necessary, not only to relieve the deafness and subjective sounds which exist, but also to avert the risk of purulent formation and retention in the deeper parts. Methods of Operating.—A general anaesthetic is necessary. If the exostosis has a slender pedicle we may be able to remove it by en- circling the growth, if that be possible, with a Jarvis nasal snare. The author succeeded with a galvanic snare in a case where the pedicle was of considerable thickness. In these peduncu- lated cases fine but strong dentist's forceps may be used with success, or a tap or two of a mallet upon a suitable chisel may be sufficient to bring the growth away. Many operators now employ a drill or bur propelled by a dental engine or an electro- motor. A variety of burs and drills should be at hand; a speculum may be unnecessary if the exostoses are pretty accessible, but good light reflected into the ear is essential. The tragus is pressed well forward, and if possible a fine steel guard is introduced behind the growth. Owing to the bleeding, frequent mopping with absorbent cotton-wool is required, and the opera- tion may thus occupy a considerable time. If we have to deal with the multiple, hard variety, the apices should be ground away by a small bur till a sufficiently large opening is made. When the grow-th is large, round, and of a softer texture, its base should first be perforated with a small drill. Till the healing process is complete, narrow strips of iodoform gauze should be pretty firmly packed into the meatus so as to keep the canal open. In many cases, how- evei", it is safer to expose the bony growth, by first making an incision behind the auricle, to the extent of an inch and a half down to the bone, and then displace the auricle and carti- laginous meatus so as to freely expose the bony growth. In this way the bur can be employed more safely than in operation through the meatus. Some prefer, after exposing the exos- tosis, to use a chisel and mallet liehind the base of the growth. The auricle is replaced, and the wound carefully sutiu-ed, while the meatus is treated by strips of gauze, as already mentioned. The author has found this a very safe and satis- factory operation. 7. Epithelioma of the External Meatus.—