39 BURNS AND SCALDS monary, cerebral, and other clinical complica- tions of burns are treated on the same lines as similar conditions ai'ising from other causes, and do not call for further mention here. TjiEATMENT OF THE JiESULTS OF BVHN^. UlcerS. ■—After the sloughs liave separated from a burn and a stage of suppuration has been reached, an ulcerated surface is left which must be treated on the principles governing the management of ulcers. In the covering-in of raw areas left by burns, skin-grafting finds one of its most useful applications. Means should be taken to prevent the production of deformities by the contracting scars during the healing of these ulcers. Cicatrices.— The cicatrices following burns often constitute serious disfigurements, many of which may be amended by plastic surgei'y. Tliey are also particularly prone to the various diseases of cicatrices {'/-v.). Deformities.—The contraction of extensive cicatrices, especially in the region of the face, neck, and flexures of joints, often leads to con- siderable deformity and interference with func- tion, for which plastic operations may do good. Medico-Legal Aspects For medico-legal inquiries the following points may be noted :— The Mode of Production.—Moist heat in the form of boiling water or steam leaves a wide- spread, red, soft, and sodden condition of the skin and underlying parts, without any actual destruction of tissues. Dry heat from molten metal, red-hot solids, resins, etc., results in a more limited damage of the tissues, which will be blackened, dry, and more or less completely destroyed by charring. The damage done by Itoiling oils resemliles that from dry heat more than from moist, while flames produce injiunes simulating both. The hairs of a part are singed by dry heat, but remain intact after the application of moist heat. The Jiesu/ts of Explosions.—The injuries re- sulting from explosions of gas are of wide extent and superficial, and consist chiefly in scorching of the surface. In ginipowder ex- plosions there are numerous sniidl particles of carbon embedded in the skin. Was the person alive or dead when burned ?— In conflagrations persons are often suftbcated by smoke, gases, or dust without being burned. In other cases they may be killed by suftbcation and then burned. If there are vesicles on the skin, surrounded by a red and swollen area, and containing serous or sanious fluid, the pre- sumption is that the person was alive when burned. The absence of these signs, however, does not negative the life of the person when subjected to the fire, as they often take some hours to appear, and death may have ensued before they had time to form. The skin under a vesicle produced during life is intensely in- jected, while that on a body burned after death is hard, dry, and yellow, and any blister which may have formed only contains gas. It is to be kept in mind, however, that heat applied to a dead body while still warm produces appear- ances closely resembling those of burns inflicted during life. The main difference is that the fluid in the vesicles in the former case is thin and watery, and contains a very small pro- portion of albumen. In burns produced by red-hot solids during life the skin round the destroyed tissue is usually white, with a deep red ring beyond it. In a dead body this red area is absent, and the whole of the destroyed surface is deadly white. How long did the pjerson survive the hurniiuj ? —This question will be answered by noting whether there are present only the signs of actual burning, or whether advanced inflam- matory signs have supervened. Suppuration, the separation of sloughs, the formation of granulation tissue, and the onset of gangrene indicate a considerable lapse of time. Marks of Violence on a Burned Body.—The body may have been burned to conceal marks of violence. Careful examination may reveal such marks, unless the destruction be too com- plete. Spontaneous Combustion.—It is almost need- less to say that the belief that spontaneous combustion may take place in the human body can no longer be maintained. Burns, Diameter of.—The diameter measured from the promontory of the sacrum to the crest of the pubes, above the obturator foramen ; the sacro-pectineal diameter. Burquism.—Metallotherapy; Perkinism; tractoration. See Hysteria {Treatment by Suggestion). Bursse, Injuries and Diseases of. Introduction . . . . .39 SiTUATIO.VS OF BURSyE .... 40 Injuries . . . . . .41 Bursitis— (a) Simple Acute . . . .41 (b) Sinyjle Chronic . . . .41 (c) Gouty., Gonorrhceal, Rheumatic . 42 (d) Tuberculous . . . . .42 (e) Sypihilitic . . . . .42 Neoplasms ...... 43 Innocent . . . . . .43 Malignant ...... 43 See also Elbuw-Joint, Injuries and Diseases (Bursitis); Ganglion {Diagnosis); Hip-Joint, Injuries {Bursal Enlargements); Hip-Joint, Diseases {Bursce) ; Knee-Joint, Diseases {Bursce) ; Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries {Bursal Enlargements); Syphilis {Bursx). Introduction. — Two varieties of Bursas are found, the true and the false. A true bursa is