DYSENTERY 444 without abscess. The spleen is usually normal, never enlarged unless as a result of a malarial complication; in exceptional cases it contains suppurating foci. The kidneys in acute cases .are generally healthy, but when septicaemia has developed they may exhibit the lesions of acute nephritis. In chronic cases they not infrequently present the characters of one or other of the forms of chronic Bright's disease. Repair.—The process of repair in all forms of intestinal ulceration is the same, and differs in no respect from what is observed in ulcers else- where. Granulation tissue springs up in the base and sides of the ulcer. Its oedematous or indurated edges become levelled down by absorp- tion ; overhanging portions of the mucous coat become attached to the subjacent tissue. When the loss of substance has been comparatively limited no cicatrix remains, and little beyond pigmentation marks the site of the ulcer. Ex- tensive ulcers heal by the formation of cicatricial tissue, which restores the continuity of the bowel, but too often leads to constrictions. Symptoms.—Non-Amoehic Dysentery.—When the disease is epidemic, dysentery frequently sets in suddenly, the patient having up to the time of attack been in perfect health. In the endemic dysentery of warm climates cases are now and then met with in which the dysenteric symptoms, as Annesley remarks, are present " from the first hour at which the patient complains." It is in these cases that the disease is apt to be ushered in by a chill or rigor. More frequently the advent of the disease is less abrupt. The patient has been troubled for a week or more with constipation, or alternations of constipation and bilious, mucous, or serous diarrha'a. In other cases symptoms of indigestion precede the attack, which then begins as a simple diarrhoea. In whatsoever way the disease begins the first motions are usually loose and feculent, they then become mixed with blood- stained mucus. After a time the faeces dis- appear from the stools, which now consist of little else than blood and mucus. The motions are preceded by severe colicky or griping pains and are passed with straining. Straining is most marked when the disease is seated in the sigmoid flexure and rectum. The number of motions varies according to the severity of the disease. In mild cases the stools do not exceed ten or fifteen in the twenty-four hours ; in severe cases there may be as many in an hour, and the desire to go to stool is constant. Long, painful straining results in the passing of a small quan- tity of a gelatinous, semi-transparent, sometimes bile-coloured mucus, tinged with blood, which affords little or no relief. The patient is with difficulty induced to quit the commode. In some cases blood is more abundant, and small clots may be passed. The constitutional symptoms during this stage are comparatively slight, even when the motions are frequent and the pain distressing. There is little or no rise in the temperature. The pulse is slightly increased in frequency, the tongue is coated, the appetite impaired, occa- sionally there is nausea, but seldom vomiting unless the liver is involved. The patient is restless and irritable. Such are the leading symptoms of the catarrhal stage. If tlie disease is arrested at this point the bowel suffers little damage, and recovery is usually rapid and complete if ordinary care is taken during convalescence. The first sign of improvement is the reappear- ance of faeces in the stools. This is followed by a decrease in the number of motions, the dis- appearance of the abnormal discharges, and the relief of the griping and straining. Should the disease continue to make progress the stools undergo a change. They lose their mucous, slimy character and become watery, of a dark-red colour, not unlike the washings of meat. Their odoiu' is distinctive, and sui generis, different alike from the mawkish smell of the first and the distinctly gangrenous odour of the third stage. When allowed to rest a sediment subsides, consisting of epithelium, blood cor- puscles, pus cells, debris of tissue, and small shreddy sloughs. The fluid portion is found to be rich in albumin. It has been estimated that in a dysentery of moderate severity some fifty or sixty grammes of albumen is discharged daily. In this stage jirolapsus of the bowel is often troublesome, and when the disease is seated in the rectum the bladder often becomes affected, and dysuria, strangury, and retraction of the testicles supervene, giving rise to more distress than that caused by the symptoms directly re- ferable to the bowel. The constitutional symp- toms during this stage are more marked. There may be more or less fever of a remittent or intermittent type, with evening exacerbations. The evening rise in the temperature seldom, however, exceeds two or three degrees Fahren- heit, if the case is uncomplicated. The pulse is fast, weak, and soft; the tongue tends to become dry; there is generally entire loss of appetite; there is thirst, nausea, perhaps occasional vomi<>- ing, the urine is scanty and may contain traces of albumen, and there is rapidly increasing emacia- tion and debility. The intermittent colicky pains of the first stage continue, and there is sometimes added a persistent feeling of uneasi- ness or distinct pain in the tract of the large intestine, increased on pressure. If the disease now takes a favourable turn the stools become feculent and all the symptoms moderate, but the convalescence is prolonged, and is apt to be interrupted by the slightest imprudence in diet or regimen. The transition to the third stage is marked by the stools assuming a distinctly gangrenous odour, becoming less watery, of a dark-brown coffee colour, sometimes with a greenish or