EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES 01- 473 body, with the hope that the latter may be urged, by the pressure of the fluid, towards the external orifice. If, after a fair trial, syringing should fail to expel the object, some form of instrument nmst be resorted to. No one, however, should attempt extraction with an instrument in such circumstances, especially in the case of a child, without the use of chloroform or other general anajsthetic. The jJ'T-tient being under the ancesthetic, the interior of the ear is thoroughly illuminated, through a speculum, by means of a reflecting mirror on the forehead. A thin but strong in- strument, slightly curved, such as one of the blades of Dr. Guy's forceps (miniature midwifery forceps), is introduced between the foreign body and the wall of the meatus, selecting a gap, if such exists, and used as a lever to urge the body outwards. Such an instrument should be as fine and small as possible, compatible with suffi- cient strength, because it is often a matter of much difficulty in such cases to pass even a thin instrument between the walls of the meatus and the foreign body, while the force which may be necessary in order to prise the object outwards can only be safely employed with a strong in- strument. If practicable, the instrument should be introduced antero-inferiorly, where the tym- panic membrane is farthest away from the orifice of the ear. Lister's hook is suitable when the foreign body is not too deeply situated. A con- venient instrument is to be had having Guy's curved arrangement at one end and Lister's liook at the other. Ordinary forceps should, as a rule, be discarded, as they tend to impel the object farther in; only when the foreign body is close to the orifice of the ear, or very small in size, are they permissible, and then syringing is preferable. If we are able to encircle the object with a strong wire loop, used with AVilde's snare, it may be possible to bring it safely awaj', or so change its position that syringing may be successful, or the use of the lever instrument rendered possible. In the case of a vegetable substance, such as a pea, tightly impacted, a fine bent hook may be used to break it down; afterwards the fragments are expelled with a sja-inge. Lciwenberg suggested that a fine brush, dipped in a solution of glue, should be applied to the foreign body, with the hope that adhesion may take place and allow of the foreign body being safely withdrawn. In the case of long- pointed objects, lying across the meatus, it may be necessary to break them with forceps and extract tiie pieces sepai-ately or syringe them out. If the foreign body has passed through the tympanic membrane into the tympanic cavity, its removal with the Avire loop should be attempted. The author has not fomid any help in such cases from the air douche, or fluid injec- tiiins tlu-ough the Eustachian tube, or suction with Siegle's speculum, as suggested by some authorities. If these various methods prove unsuccessful— the foreign body being innnovably wedged in the inner end of the meatus or in the tympanum —we should make a long incision at the junc- tion of the auricle with the mastoid process, dissect the auricle and cartilaginous meatus for- wards, and thus gain access to the osseous part of the meatus, nearer to the foreign body. A strong lever instrument can then be more safely and effectively employed. The wound should be carefully sutured, and the meatus plugged with iodoform gauze for a few days. In the event of failure, as a last resort the posterior wall of the osseous meatus should be removed with the bur or chisel, and, if necessary, the antrum mastoideum can be opened. Insects, such as fleas, earwigs, bugs, etc., may find their way into the ear and excite alarm in the mind of the patient. Their presence may not only produce the sensation of a moving body in the ear, but, by fastening upon the skin of the meatus or the tympanic membrane, severe pain may be excited. There is no evidence that the earwig is an esjjecially dangerous inmate of the ear, as popularly believed. Maggots may be found in the ear, especially if the latter be the seat of a purulent discharge, from the de- position of the eggs of tlie fly, probably attracted by the pm-ulent odour. Insects are easily ex- pelled from the ear by syringing with water, or even by j^ouring water or oil into the ear, allow- ing it to remain for a few minutes. The smoke of tobacco, blown into the meatus, usually leads to the departure of the insect. In the case of maggots rectified spirit may be poured into the ear, and after a time the use of the syringe will generally expel them. It may be necessary', however, to pick them out with forceps. If a leech should find its way into the ear, syringing witli a solution of common salt will ensure its expulsion. 3. FuRUNxuLt OR Circumscribed Inflamma- Tiox OF THE Externa], Meatus.—Synonyms : Otitis externa cii'cumscripta; boils in the ear. This is one of the commonest inflammatory affections of the external meatus, and is often associated with boils elsewhere. The inflam- mation has its origin in a hair follicle or gland in the subcutaneous tissiie, generally in tlie cartilaginous part of the meatus. A core of sloughed tissue usually results with more or less purulent formation; the latter may be very slight, or it may constitute a distinct abscess. We generally find more than one in the same ear, and they have a marked tendency to recur. Cduscs.—While no doubt essentially microbic in origin, local irritating conditions are important factors in the causation of these furunculi. The special microbe, which enters the hair follicle and excites the inflammatory process, is the staphjdococcus pyogenes, aiu'cus or albus. The disease is often associated with scah' eczema of