219 CONSTIPATION administered daily so long as any masses remain in the bowel. Again, as a stimulant to defalca- tion small enemata of glycerine, or suppositories of tlie same, prove very useful, the forms of the latter now obtainable constituting one of the most convenient and least injurious therapeutic remedies we possess. Especially convenient are they for patients who are from home or travel- ling ; but the habit of employing them system- atically is to be guarded against. Occasionally considerable benefit may be derived from the use of S7nall enemata of cold water, which appear to act by stimulating peristalsis. (6) Drugs.—All cathartic remedies which have an astringent tendency as part of their after- eft'ects should be rigidly avoided in treating habitTial constipation, e.g. Gregory's powder. What should be aimed at in prescribing is to give something which may so tone up the bowel to act that the drug can be dispensed with in a short time. Especially important among these intestinal tonics are cascara sagrada, nux vomica, or strychnine, and aloes. These may be given together conveniently in pill form, a little bella- donna being often added with or without hyo- scyamus to prevent griping. It is most important to impress on the patient that it is not a purga- tive pill he is getting, but a tonic for his intestines, and therefore he is not to e.xpect an action of the bowels as the result of one or two pills. Such a pill as—R Exti". cascanc sagrada;, gr. iss.; extr. luicis vomicte, gr. |; extr. aloes, gr. \ ; extr. belladonna;, gr. -J ; extr. gent. co. q.s., given twice or thrice daily, always as an adjuvant to the general measures stated previously, seldom fails to bring about in a few days a regularity in the evacuations which continues after the pills have been gradually omitted. In ana3mic females the addition of a little iron in some form to the pill is often of great advantage. Again, the liquid form of cascara (with which an equal amount of glycerine may be advan- tageously combined) is sometimes very effectual if taken nightly for some time to tone up the intestine, always in addition to dietetic and other general measures. The patient should be always strongly warned against indulging in occasional purgatives, and encouraged to per- severe in measures calculated to bring about a natural daily evacuation. Sometimes in plethoric subjects, or where the motions are excessively dry, salines given in the morning act best, either in the form of one of the numerous aperient waters, e.g. Hunyadi Janos, Ilubinat, etc., or as the simple salts, e.g. Carlsbad, etc.; but while often beneficial for a time, and especially useful in obstinate cases as an alternative, e.g. during smmner weather, they are never of the same lasting benefit as the purely intestinal neuro-muscular tonics, and if persevered in are apt to perpetuate the condi- tion they were designed to cure. The advantage of sending cases of habitual constipation to one of the many purgative springs is doubtful. So far as the «<j'e of his constipation is concerned the really important part of the treatment lies in his acquiring there those habits of regular hours, punctuality in attending to the call to stool, systematic exercise, etc., which he can follow out equally well at home. The action of the purgative waters is too often followed only by a recTirrence of the constipation on their cessation. Again, when there is sluggishness of the liver present, hepatic stimulants, e.g. euonymin, or podophyllin, are called for, but such drugs must be adopted as mere temporary additions to the systematic treatment of the constipation in the manner stated above. Lastly, in some obstinate cases of constipation, as previously referred to, an opiate (often com- bined with belladonna) will open the bowels when various cathartics have failed, apparently by allaying the reflex inhibition of peristalsis ; and in a similar fashion an opiate may be advan- tageously combined with a purgative if spasm or pain be a prominent feature in the case. Constituens.—The vehicle or excipient in a prescription, giving consistence, or helping to remove disagreeable tastes or smells. See Prescribing. Constitution.—The particular way in which an individual reacts to external circum- stances, and resists or yields to morbid influences ; predisposition to develop special forms of disease, e.g. nervous, rheumatic, gouty, and the like ; temperament. Among the constitutions or tem- peraments which used to be much dwelt upon were the nervous, the phlegmatic, the bilious, the sanguine, the gouty, etc. Constitutional Diseases.— in a somewhiit loose fashion it is permissiljle to speak of certain diseases, e.g. gout, syphilis, rheu- matism, tubercle, rickets, rheumatoid arthritis, acute and chronic alcoholism, diabetes mellitus, ha3mophilia, obesity, and some nervous maladies, as being constitutional, i.e. developed as the re- sult of certain inherited or acquired morbid modes of action of the tissues and organs. See under the above-named diseases. Constrictors.—Muscles which diminish the calibre of vessels or the capacity of hollow organs by their contraction, e.g. the constrictors of the nares, of the vagina, of the bladder, and of the pharynx {see Pharynx, Affections, uV^eu roses). Consultation. See Etiquette, Medical. —The deliberative consideration of a medical or surgical case in which the diagnosis, or prognosis, or treatment is not clearly indicated, or is not thought to be so by the patient or his friends, with a view to greater accuracy and benefit; two or more practitioners may take part.