CHLOROSIS 110 severe or chronic, and even when efficiently treated it is apt to recur. As the patient advances in years this tendency becomes less marked. Causation and Pathology.—(\) Predis2Msing Causes.— So far as is known, chlorosis occui-s only in the female sex, and the first attack usually falls in the years between fourteen and twenty, very seldom earUer and seldom later. Recurrences may occur at any time after the first attack, and have been met with com- paratively late in life. The disease often runs in families, especially in large families, and the mothers of chlorotic girls have themselves often been affected. No other illnesses in the parents have any special relation to chlorosis in the children. There must be a predisposing weak- ness of a functional character in the blood-form- ing organs, but Virchow's belief that the cause of the disease is a general hypoplasia of the vascular system, and the kindred notion that it is due to a hypoplasia of the genital organs, are certainly erroneous. It is impossible that a disease so curable shoukl depend on organic defects so serious. (2) Exciting Causes.—Such bad hygienic con- ditions as want of fresh air and of Hght in the rooms which patients inhabit, and such faults in clothing as corsets so tight as to interfere with the proper action of the viscera, may assist in producing the disease. An improper amount of work and exercise is probably more important, and more harm is done by too much fatigue than by too little. Unwisdom in the choice of food or inability to obtain a proper quantity or quality is even more serious. The iron of the blood is normally regenerated from the iron of the food, though there is a reserve in the liver which can be drawn upon in emergency. Nor- mally the intake of iron in the food, in men at least, just balances the output, but young women tend to prefer other foods to the iron- containing proteids of a man's diet, and their intake of iron is thus often insufficient. More- over, chlorosis is very apt to appear at the time when girls have left school and home, and have begun to work. They need a fuller diet, especi- ally more proteid food, and often cannot afford it, are not allowed it, or will not take it. Bad hygienic conditions, dyspepsia, constipation, mental depression, all lead to loss of appetite and to a diminution in the amount of food taken. In addition to a diminished intake of iron there is in young girls an excessive output. The blood-loss of menstruation means on each occasion an output of iron equal to that in- gested in the food in a week, and it must re- quire a healthy appetite and vigorous digestion to make good the loss. Many chlorotics have at one time suffered from menorrhagia, though when the disease is fully established the majority either cease to menstruate, or do so in dimin- ished quantity. In the chlorotic years the de- velopment of the whole body goes on rapidly, and must throw a great strain on the blood- forming organs, and if these are imperfectly noui'ished, and exposed to loss as well, chlorosis may well result. Very little is known of the mechanism by which the blood-forming organs are stimulated to make good any loss, and it is possible that this may depend to a certain ex- tent on the internal secretion of one or more organs, in the female sex possibly the genital organs. A loss of this stimulation from func- tional disturbance of the generative organs may endanger the normal course of blood formation. The view that chlorosis is dependent on con- stipation has been abandoned. Constipation is not more common nor more severe among chlor- otics than among other women, and purgatives alone will not cure the disease. Nor is there ground for believing that an abnormal amount of intestinal putrefaction is present to produce toxins which destroy the blood or hinder its formation. The ordinary evidences in the urine of increased intestinal decomposition are want- ing in chlorosis, nor is there any reason to think that excessive blood destruction occurs. (3) Pathology.— Chlorosis is not a fatal dis- ease, and hence little or nothing is known of its morbid anatomy. Fatty degeneration of the heart and other viscera has been found in this as in other anjemias, the stomach may be dilated, and so may the heart. The only change which is characteristic is the condition of the blood, and the only alteration there which is absolutely constant is the diminution of haemo- globin, not only absolutely, but also relatively to the red corpuscles. The red corpuscles in the cubic millimetre vary greatly in number. In cases which are taken into hospital they are often diminished, though very rarely below two millions. These, of course, are the severe cases. In out-patient and private practice the number is more usually about three or four millions, and not infrequently the number is normal—about 4,-500,000—or above the normal. But even in the cases with a normal number of corpuscles the hsemoglobin will often be diminished to 50 per cent—a colour-index of 0-5—while when the corpuscles are unusually low the htemoglobin also sinks. I have taken 313 cases, tabulated by Thayer, Cabot, Bramwell, and Stockman, and find the average number of red corpuscles to have been 3,800,000, while the average per- centage of hsemoglobin was 40'3. This gives a colour-index of 0-47. The blood when drawn is pale and very fluid, but coagulates rapidly, though the fibrin is not increased. Blood-plates are almost always in- creased in number ; indeed, sometimes in stained films they seem to be almost as numerous as the red cells. The red corpuscles are small, and when stained are pale, and show specially a much paler centre than usual. This of course corresponds with