CHLOASMA 108 Chloasma,.—A pigmented condition of the skin in which yellowish or brownish patches appear, e.g. in pregnancy {chloasma xiterinum or gravidarum), or in tubercle (aphthisicorimi), or from the sun's rays [C. caloricum), or from the application of blisters (C. toxicum). See Lung, Tuberculosis (Coviplications, Integumentary/); Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in the Ski7i); Skin, Parasites {Tinea Versicolor); Skin, Pig- mentary Affections ; Syphilis {Diagnosis). Chlor-.—In various compound words chlor- occurs, and it generally signifies that chlorine enters into the composition of the substance for which the word stands. In other cases it simply means green {e.g. chlorosis). In addition to the words separately considered infra, the following may be referred to here : chloracetamide (formed from acetamide by substituting chlorine for hydrogen); chloracetone (formed from acetone by substituting chlorine for hydrogen); chlor- acetylene (a chlorine substitution compound of acetylene); chloralantipyrine (a compound of chloral and antipyrine, acting as a hypnotic); chloraloin (a substance formed by passing chlorine gas through solution of aloin) ; chloral- ose (a substance formed by reaction of anhydrous chloral and glucose, and acting as a hypnotic); chlor-alum (impure chloride of aluminium, act- ing as a disinfectant); chloramyl, chloraniline, chlorbenzene, chlorcaffeine, chlorcamphor, chlor- cyanogen, chloretone, etc. etc. Chloral Hydrate. See also Anal- gesics AND Anodynes ; Colour Vision {Acquired Colour - Blindness); Convulsions, Infantile ; Drug Eruptions {Erythematous); Eclampsia {Treatment); Hypnotics ; Labour, Precipitate AND Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages); Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Purpura {Symp- tomatic Purpura, Toxic); Temperature (De- pression); Toxicology {Organic Poisons, Chloral Hydrate). — Chloral Hydras consists of clear, translucent crystals, with a characteristic aro- matic odour, and a bitter, pungent taste. It liquefies on heating, and is readily soluble in water, alcohol, ether, and certain oils. A thick oily liquid results when it is mixed with camphor or menthol. It is given in doses of 5-20 grs. Preparation—Syrupus Chloral, each fluid drachm containing 10 grs. Dose—^-2 drs. Chloral is a pure hypnotic, causing a natural sleep, which is not followed by any unpleasant after effects. It has no analgesic action, however, and is there- fore of little use alone in conditions associated with severe pain, such as neuralgia. Its ad- ministration is of most value in cases of simple sleeplessness, especially if associated with rest- lessness and excitement; in such cases it may with advantage be combined with bromide. On account of its depressant action it must be given with caution to patients labouring under cardiac or respiratory embarrassment. It is a strong irritant, and may cause vomiting unless taken well diluted. If the patient is for any reason unable to swallow, it may be adniinistered by the rectum or hypodermically. There is a strong tendency for the formation of a chloral habit, and its use as a regular sedative and hypnotic in chronic diseases is therefore contra-indicated. The following are some of the diseases for which it is recommended—mania, delirium tremens, whooping-cough, convulsions, tetanus, strych- nine poisoning, severe chorea, chorea of preg- nancy, asthma, eclampsia, and uraemia with nervousness and restlessness. Ch loralam ide.—A hypnotic compound. Chloral formamide, given in doses of 15 to 40 grains; it is not official; it dissolves only slowly and imperfectly in water, but better in acid solutions. It is said that the proprietary preparation chlorobrom resembles a mixture of chloralamide and bromide of potassium. See also Heart, Myocardium, Diseases {Treatment, Medicinal, Sleeplessness). Chloral ism.—Chronic poisoning due to the chloral habit. See Toxicology. Chlorate of Potash. See Potassium; Pregnancy, Intra - Uterine Diseases {Intra- uterine Therapeutics); Prescribing. Ch IOretOne.—Chloretone (CCI3 (CH3)2C. OH) is a trichloro-derivative of tertiary butyl alcohol (C^HgOH), obtained by slowly adding caustic potash to equal weights of chloroform and acetone ; it is anaesthetic (like cocaine) and antiseptic. See Nose, Examination, Local An^5Sthetics. Chloric Ether.—Spiritiis Chloroformi, one of the official preparations of chloroform, given in doses of 5 to 20 m., or in larger doses (20 to 40 m.) if for one administration. See An/Esthesia, Chloroform ; Prescribing. Chloride of Ethyl, ^ee Anaesthesia, Ethyl Chloride; Teeth {Tooth Extraction). Chlorides. See Diet {Mineral Constitu- ents) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {In- organic Constituents, Chlorides). Chlorinated Lime. See Chlorine. Chlorinated Soda. See Chlorine. Chlorine.—A greenish - yellow gas with intensely irritating properties. It is not official, but is represented by— 1. Calx Chlorinata, bleaching - powder, con- taining 33 per cent of available chlorine, which it gives off on exposure to air. Preparation— Liquor Calcis Chlorinatse, a 1 in 10 solution. 2. Liquor Soda Chlorinatce, made by mixing solutions of sodium carbonate and chlorinated lime. Dose—10-20 m.