DRUNKENNESS 43S in about 30 por cent of the recorded cases the ascites was relieved. Drunkenness. See Alcoholism. Dry Labour. See Labour, Faults in THE Passenger i^Earhj Emxpe of Liquor Amnii, Dry Labour). Dry Mouth. See Salivary Glands, DisdHDERS OF (^Xerostomia). Dry Rot.—Timber (e.r). in the construction of a liouse) which is subject to alternate wetting and drying, or which is imperfectly ventilated, decays; it is aficcted either by wet or by dry rot {Merideus lachrpnans), diseases due to the growth of the mycelium of fungi and in which the wood is reduced to a powder; such wood must be entirely removed if the process is to be stopped ; preventives are found in thorough ventilation of beams and joists, by painting and varnishing, and by foi'cing creosote into the wood under pressure (Bethell's process). Dua.i Persona!ity. See Memory in Health and Disease (^Periodic Complete Loss of Memory); Double Consciousness ; Uncon- sciousness {Double Consciousness). Dubini's Disease. See Chorea {Ehiirival Chorea) ; Spasm ( Varieties, Paramyo- clonus 3Ii//tij)/cx, Diagnosis). Duboisine. — An alkaloid, probably identical with hyoscyamine (Cj^.H2iNO^H20); it is obtained from the leaves of Duboisia myo- po7'oides, and is found in Datura Stramonium and Hyoscyamtis niger; it resembles atropine in its action, e.g. it is a mydriatic, but its effects as such ai-e more quickly produced and more evanescent; its toxic effects also differ from those of atropine. It has been used as a mydriatic (as ophthalmic discs containing -^-^^ grain), and in cxophthahnic goitre. See Alka- loids ; Toxicology {Alkaloids, Henbane and Stramonium). Duchenne-Erb Paralysis. — A type of paralysis in which the deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinator longus are aftected. See Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poison- ing) ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of. Ducrey'S Bacillus.—Ducrey's bacillus of soft sore, a micro-organism causing acute suppuration. See Suppuration {Etiology); Venereal Disease {Soft Sore or Chancroid). Duct or Ductus. — A canal, usually serving the purpose of conveying the secretion away from a gland, sometimes acting as a communication between one blood - vessel and another. Instances of the former are found in the 6i7e-ducts, the cystic duct, Bartholin's, Gartner's, Muller's, Wharton's, Sterisoyi's, and Wirsung's duct; and of the latter in the ductus vol. II arteriosus, the ductus venosus, the thoracic duct,. and the ducts of Cuvier. Ductless Glands. See Physiology, Internal Secretions {Suprarenal Bodies, Pitui- tary, Thyroid, Ovaries, Thyruus, etc.). Ductus Arteriosus. See Heart, Physiology of {Embryology) ; Heart, Con- genital Malformations of {Patent Ductus Arteriosus); Physiology, Reproduction {Fatal Circidatiou). Ductus Venosus. See Heart, Physio- logy (^Embryology); Physiology, Reproduction {Foital Circulation). Dugfa'S Test.—A test for dislocation of the shoulder; if, when the hand of the dislocated side is placed on the opposite shoulder, the elbow is elevated and stands out prominently in front of the chest, there is really a disloca- tion. See Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Dislocations, Signs and Symptoms). Dmhring's Disease. See Dermatitis HeRPKTIF()1!MIS. Diihrssen's Operateon.—A method of vaginal fixation of the uterus in cases of obstinate retroversion. Dulcamara.—The branches of Solanum dulcamara (Bittersweet or Woody Nightshade), containing two alkaloids (solanine and dulca- marine, Cg.jHg^Ojg), used as an alterative in some skin diseases, in chronic rheumatism, in whooping-cough, etc.; not now official in the British Pharmacopceia. Dulcite. — A polyhydric (hexahydric) alcohol, isomeric with mannite (CgHj^Of, or C|;Hg(OH)g); it is used to sweeten the food in the treatment of diabetes. DulnesS. See Pleura, Diseases of {Acute Pleiirisy, Signs of Pleural Effusion, Percussion); Abdomen, Clinicai- Investigation of {Per- cussion) ; Chest, Clinical Investigation of {Percussion) ; etc. Dumb Ag^ue. — Masked intermittent fever, masked malaria. Dumbness. See Deafmutism; Cretin- ism; lixpj^oTisyi (Psychical Dumbness); Mental Deficiency ; etc. Dum-Dum Fever.—Piroplasmosis, or kala-azar, or tropical splenomegaly; a chronic disease of India, China, Egypt, and the Tropics, in which the spleen and liver are enlarged, there are hasmorrhages and transitory oedemas, a moderate degree of ana;mia, and irregularly remittent fever; a protozoon parasite (Donovan- Leishman bodies) has been found in the spleen ; quinine is useful, but has not the same good effect as in malaria. 28