CALCULUS 48 euli); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Uri- nary Calculi); VESicuLiE Seminales [Calculi). Calcutta Fever. — Bastard typhoid fever. See Tropics, the Unclassed Fevers OF THE. Caldarium. — The hot chamber m the ancient Eoman baths. See Balneology (Historical). Caldas da Rain ha. See Balneology (Portugal). Caldas-de-Gerez. See Balneology (Pcjrtugal). Caldas-de-Montbuy. See Balneo- logy (Spain). Caledonia Springes. >S'ee Balneology (Canada). Calefacient.—Causing heat, e.g.Emplas- trum Calefaciens. See Cantiiarides. Calendar, Obstetric. See Preg- nancy, Diagnosis (Probable Date of Confine- ment). Calenture.—Fever, especially of thermic causation, affecting sailors more particularly, in the tropics; thermic fever or heat apoplexy; siriasis. See Sunstroke. Calf-Lymph, /fe Vaccination. Calgfary. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (American, British Columbia). Calico-Dyers. See Trades, Dangerous (Lead-Poisoning). California. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (American). Calliper-Compasses or Cal- lipers.—A sort of compasses, with attached scale, for measuring the diameters of convex bodies, such as the foetal head (Cephalometer) or maternal pelvis (Pelvimeter). See Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged (Pelvimetry). Callirrho^. See Balneology (Turkey, Palestine). Callisthenics.—Simple gymnastic exer- cises, employed to prevent or cure spinal curva- ture, especially in young girls. See Spine, Surgical Affections of. CallOSitaS.—A local thickening of the horny layers of the skin (hyperkeratosis), occur- ring especially on the palms and soles, due to continuous pressure or irritation from the hand- ling of tools, etc. See Ichthyosis (Callositas). Callus. — Bony material thrown out be- tween and around the ends of a fractured bone during the healing process, especially marked if the fracture has been badly set. See Fractures (Process of Repair); Labour, Prolonged (Pe^wc Deformities, Fracture). Calomel.—Mercurous chloride. See Mer- cury. /VeeafooCholagogues; Eclampsia; Phar- macology ; Prescribing ; Syphilis ; etc. Calor Mordax. — The dry, burning, pungent heat of the skin, as noted by the observer's hand, in pneumonia, malaria, and scarlatina. See Pneumonia, Clinical (Clinical Features). Calorie or Calory.—The conventional unit of quantity of heat: the small calorie is the amount of heat necessary to raise 1 gram of water 1° C. (or from 15° to 16° C.); the large calorie is that required to raise 1 kilogram of water 1° C, and is equivalent to 3'97 British thermal units (the B.Th.U. = quantity of heat necessary to raise 1 lb. of water 1° F.). See Physiology, Tissues (Muscular); Physiology, Food and Digestion (Energy Value). Calorig^en. — A form of gas stove (Geoi'ge's), containing pipes conveying a supply of fi-esh air. CalotropiS.—Mudar, or the dried root of Calotropiis procera, official in India and British Colonies; used in doses of 3 to 10 grs. as a tonic, and of 30 to 60 grs. as an emetic; the Tinctura Calotropis has a dose of \ to 1 fl. dr.; it is employed for the treatment of elephantiasis (externally), and of syphilis and rheumatism. Calumbae Radix. See Gentian; Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Quassia ; etc.— Calurnba Root is a typical vegetable bitter. Its chief constituents are — (1) Calumbin, a neutral bitter principle; (2) Beberine, an alkaloid ; (3) Calumbic Acid ; (4) Starch. The active principle may be looked upon as a mixture of the first three. It contains no tannin, and its preparations can therefore be prescribed with salts of iron. Preparations—1. Infusum Calumbse. Dose— \-\ oz. 2. Liquor Calumba; Concentratus. Dose—\-\ dr. 3. Tinctura Calumbse. Dose— \-\ dr. Calumba is administered before food as a stomachic tonic, either alone or, more usually, in combination with other drugs, such as iron, arsenic, and nux vomica. It stimulates the appetite, and increases the flow of saliva and gastric juice. It is useful in cases of weak primary digestion, in general debility, in anaemia, and during convalescence from acute diseases. The infusion has been given as a rectal injection to destroy thread-worms, but quassia is more generally employed for this purpose.