432 DRUG ERUPTIONS earlier appearance of the eruption, and rashes on the third, fourth, and fifth days are very common. The rash may last from a few hours to about a fortnight. As a rule, however, its duration is not more than five days, and many disappear on the second, tliird, or fourth day. In certain instances, probably when the blood of two or more horses has been mixed in pre- paring the antitoxin, successive rashes, different in character, may appear at different dates. Character.—Generally speaking, the character of the rashes is "septic," that is to say, they are of that kind which we are accustomed to associate with blood - poisoning from various causes. They are always erythematous, and occasionally may be classed as true urticaria. The commonest foi'm is that of an erythema multiforme, a bright pink eruption, macular or papular in character, with a tendency in many instances to circinate arrangement, and often showing an eccentric extension of the individual macules or papules. Its distribution is very variable, as it may appear on any part of the body or face, usually being most marked in the neighbourhood of the larger joints and at the seat of injection. It also appears to have a certain preference for the extensor surfaces. Occasionally it may be morbilliform or scarla- tiniform in character, but neither of these forms is very common. In many cases it is exceed- ingly itchy, and it is this characteristic which is most distressing to the patient, who otherwise often feels quite well. When the eruption is urticarial it is marked by the usual wheals characteristic of that condition, and these fre- quently occur on the face. Other symptoms.—As regards pyrexia some cases show no fever at all, and others only slight deviation from the normal. On the other hand, in young children especially, there may be a considerable rise, the chart showing tempera- tures of 101° to 103° even when there is no complicating arthritis. (Edema is not uncommon, and in some in- stances may involve considerable areas of skin, though more frequently it is limited to the hands and feet. Arthritis is a very common complication, and indeed may occur without a rash at all. The joints of the extremities are most frequently complained of, and may be swollen and tender. Dia/jnosis.—There is not usually any difficulty in diagnosing the rash. It is to be looked for in a large proportion of cases injected, and therefore its occurrence need caiise no surprise. Occasionally, however, when scarlatiniform or morbilliform in character it may cause anxiety. The marked itchiness of the serum rash, the absence of catarrhal symptoms (in its measly form), and of those of the usual invasion of scarlatina, should decide the case. Treatment.—The rashes scarcely require any treatment, and their presence has little or no clinical significance. To relieve the itching, however, tepid sponges or the application of a lead lotion may be found useful. For the arthritis, salol and the salicylates often appear to give relief. Some prefer a palliative treat- ment, with laudanum fomentations and opium internally. The exceedingly variable duration of initreated cases makes it almost impossible to judge the efficacy of any treatment. The following Plates will be found useful for reference :— Argyria—Crocker's Atlas, PI. xxxviii. Arsenic—Cancer, Arch, of Surg. PI. xx. „ Keratosis, ,, PI. xviii. „ Psoriasis, ,, PI. xix. ,, Pigmentation ) i t>i " , . >Crocker, PI. xxxvn. & Keratosis, J Bromide—Confluent form, „ PI. xxxv. ,, Ulcerative, Syd. Soc. Atl. PI. xliv. „ Bullous, III. Med. News, Jan. 1889. Chloral—Erythema, Arch, of Surg. PI. v. Chrysarobin—Erythema, Crocker, PI. xxxviii. Iodide—Bullous, ,, PI. xxxvi. /Tuberous, Arch, of Surg. PI. iii., iv. " \ (fatal case). r Purpuric, III. Med. News, Nov. 1888 " \ (Mackenzie's case). ,, Bullous, Syd. Soc. Atl. PI. xxxiii. Drugr Habits. See Absinthism ; Alco- holism ; ANyKSTHETics; AusENic; Cannabis Indica ; Chloral ; Chloroform ; Cocaine ; Ether; Hypnotics; Hypnotism {Uses); Mor- phinomania and allied Drug Habits {Anti- pyrin, Antifehrin, Paraldehyde, Chlorodyne, etc.); Sulphonal ; Trional ; Veronal ; Vice {Drug Habits and Smoking). Drummond - Morison Opera- tion.—An operative method of treating ascites introduced into use by Dr. David Drummond and Mr. Rutherford Morison in 1896; its object is to develop vascular anastomoses between the portal and systemic venous systems. As per- formed by Drummond and Morison, the abdo- men was opened and dried out with sponges; the parietal peritoneum and that covering the liver and spleen were scrubbed with a sponge; the omentum was sutured across the anterior wall, and a tube was left in the pouch of Douglas. The ascites was cured ; and Talma and Schiassi and others have since obtained equally satisfactory results by means of the same or slightly modified methods, so that, in 1905> Bunge was able to collect 274 cases from litera- ture (including 14 of his own) in which the operation had been performed. The indication for the procedure is portal obstruction from hepatic cirrhosis, but it is applicable in portal obstruction due to any cause; the most marked benefit following it is relief of the ascites, but htemorrhages from mucous membranes {e.g. htcmatemesis) may also be greatly benefited;