280 DEFORMITIES circular, but more often triangular, owing to non - development of the ischial part of the Y-shaped cartilage. Its shallowness is also due to defective development of the cotyloid rim, especially at its postero-superior border. The upper extremity of the femur is normal at birth, but as age advances the head undergoes flattening in front and above, and the neck becomes considerably shortened and less obtuse, and further is anteverted or retroverted. The round ligament is occasionally thick and solid, but more often elongated and attenuated or even merged into the joint-capsule at the anterior part. In 83 per cent of the cases it is absent. The capsular ligament is always elongated, and sometimes is remarkably thick- ened, while at other times it is seen to be dilated and thinned. Sometimes it is of a curious hour-glass shape, and is obliterated in its middle. As to the muscles, the ilio-psoas undergoes such a change in its direction that it finally comes to lie internal and even posteriorly to the head of the bone. The displacement of the caput femoris is usually above and posterior, but as the subject is more carefully studied the number of anterior dislocations is found to be large. The symptoms are as follows :—A typical rolling gait, lordosis, prominence of the abdomen, shortness of the lower limbs in proportion to the general bodily development, and feeble development of the muscles of the lower extremity. When the patient stands the great trochanters are unusually prominent, and dis- placed forwards and upwards or forwards and backwards. The heels also are rotated inwards and the toes turned outwards. When the patient is placed recumbent, the lordosis dis- appears and the tops of the trochanters are not so near the crests of the ilia as when he is standing. The upper borders of the trochanters are in all cases above Nelaton's line. The limb can often be made to " telescope " up and down. Signs which are absent are : pain and limitation of movement, especially in young children. Prognosis.—As to the possibility of cure, the earlier treatment is commenced the more likely it is to be successful, and if it be begun before the child is four years of age it probably will be so entirely, but after that the prospect is doubt- ful no matter what form is adopted. Diagnosis.—It is essential to make sure that the deformity is truly congenital, i.e. has arisen from causes in utero and not to unskilful and violent delivery. Paralytic dislocation should also be excluded. Coxa vara is diagnosed from congenital dislocation by the facts that in the former the limb cannot be pulled down by traction, and there is no flexion of the thigh and no muscular wasting. Pseudo - hypertrophic paralysis has often been confounded on super- ficial observation with congenital dislocation on account of the lordosis and waddling, but a little care sufiices to distinguish between them. Tuberculous coxitis has been confused with it, but the pain, limitation of movement, with loss of complete flexion, are quite sufficient for differ- ential purposes. Treatment.—The difficulties which have to be overcome are : the ill-developed acetabvilum, the alteration in the shape of the head, of the femur, and in the direction of the neck, the stretched condition of the capsule, and the contraction of the adductor muscles. Prolonged rest with extension lias been advo- cated by Buckminster Brown and William Adams, who have published several cases, but it must be confessed that grave doubts have arisen as to the permanency of the alleged cures. The time involved in treatment is at least four years, two of complete recumbency and two of walking on crutches. The disadvantages of this method are evident. Scliede has modified this by plac- ing the patient in the recumbent position, applying extension to the abducted limb and moderate lateral pressure on the trochanter. He does this for three months, and then allows the patient to get about on the sound leg with an outside steel support for the affected limb. In this support there is an abduction screw, by turning which pressure may be made on tiie trochanter. This treatment is suitable only for children under three years of age. Lannelongue, in addition to the rest and recumbency method, has injected two or three minims of a 10 per cent solution of chloride of zinc with the object of causing firm fibrous growth around the head of the fennir. Treatment by reduction, as initiated by Paci and modified by Lorenz. The method is as follows. The patient is anscsthetised fully, and placed on a low couch so that the surgeon can stand well over him. The limb is then extended either manually or by means of pulleys until the top of the trochanter is at or just below the Nelaton line. If the muscles refuse to allow the trochanter to be drawn down they are divided subcutaneously. The limb is now fully ab- ducted, and by a little judicious rotation the head of the femur may be felt to slip over the posterior upper margin of the acetabulum, and it sometimes moves in witli a distinct click. The difficulty now is to keep it fixed. This is best effi^cted by placing the thigh at about 75 degrees of abduction and using plaster of Paris. In about three weeks the patient is allowed to walk with the log in this position. Two or three inches of cork-sole are added to the shoe on the sound side, and the assistance of a crutch or crutches is useful. The object of keeping the limb in this abducted position is to wedge it firmly into or upon the acetabulum. The plaster of Paris is renewed at the end of three months and reapplied for a second period. Treatment by opera operation. The original method of Hofta has now been discarded, and Lorenz has modified it. But it is to be noted