CORE- 227 Bodies {Congenital Ahiormalities of Iris); coreometer, an instrument for measuring the diameter of the pupil; coreplasty, the form.ition of ;ui artificial pupil ; corestenoma, a (congenital) narrowing of the pupil; corociHsix, obliteration of the pupil; corodiastasis, dilatation of the pupil; and coromorjihosis, the making of an artificial pupil. Coriandri Fructus.—The fruit of an mnhelliferous plant {(Joriandrum sativum) ; it contains an official volatile oil {Oleum Cori- andri), which contains coriandrol (Cj,)H,-OH) and pincne, and is given in doses of ^ to 3 m.; coriander fruit and its oil have the carminative and stomachic actions of the volatile oils, and are used in the making of the Confection and the Sj/rup of Senna, in Si/riipus Rhei, in Tinc- tura Rhei Coinposita, etc. Corium. See Skin, Anatomy and Phv- SioiJKiY (Corium). Corn. See Clavus ; Tabes Dorsalis {Perforating Ulcer of the Foot).—Corns are horny indurations or thickenings of the cuticle, situ- ated usually over one or other of the joints of the toes, and caused by pressure irregularly distributed {e.g. tight or ill-fitting boots); a corn often develops a central core (or " eye") which passes more deeply into the undeidying structures and requires to be taken out before cure can he eifccted; ti'eatment consists in re- moving the exciting cause, e.g. by the wearing of well-fitting boots, or by so distributing the pressure {e.g. by a plaster) as to prevent its concentration at any one point; the core can be taken out by soaking in hot water and then scraping ; of course, if a corn become inflamed and an abscess form under it, it will be neces- sary to poultice and open it. Cornea. Inflammation of . . . . . 227 Ulcerative Inflammation . . . 228 Opacifies 232 Types of Ulceration .... 232 Simple, Infective, Catarrhal, Serpigi- nous, JIarginal Ditch, Rodent Kerato-Mycosis Aspergillina . . 233 The Phlyctenular Ulcer . . . 233 Bullous Affections of . . . . 235 Herpes, Herpes Zoster, Dendritic Ulcer, Superjidal Punctate Kera- titis., Recurrent and Filamentary Keratitis Kerato-Malacia ..... 236 Ulceration from Exposure . . . 237 Neuro-Paralytic Keratitis . . . 237 Interstitial Keraittis .... 237 Keraittis Profunda .... 239 Striated and Sclerosing Ker.atitis . 240 Calcareous Degeneration . . . 24:0 Other Affectiuns— Congenital Oj>acities . . . 240 ArctLs Senilis . . . . .240 Blood-staining. . . . .241 Keratitis Punctata . . . .241 Conical Cornea, . . . .241 Ilydrophthalmos . . . .241 Tumours. . . . . .241 In.juries— Foreign Ilodies . . . .241 Rvrjis 242 See also Brain, Cerebellum {Tumour, Ances- thesia of Cornea) ; P]ye, Clinical Examination ok {Cornea); Glaucoma {Sympdoms); Herpes {Ocular Complications) ; Hysteria {Ocular Ancesthesia) ; Leprosy {Ulceration of Cornea) ; Meningitis, Tuberculous {Eye Symptoms) ; Kefraction {Astigmatism) ; Sclerotic, Diseases of {Sclerotitis) ; Smallpox {Cornea.l Ulcer); Syphilis. The cornea may be considered broadly as consisting of three layers: the anterior epn- thelium, the ptroper corneal tissue, limited by two structureless elastic lamin.e, Bowman's membrane in front, and Descemet's membrane behind, and the endothelium. These parts have a common origin with the conjunctiva, with the sclerotic, and with the uveal structures of the eye respectively, and they are subject to the same changes and show the same tendencies as the parts with which they have origin. The cornea is not vascidar ; it gets nourishment by a system of lyiuph channels, and is abundantly supplied with nerves. Examination of the Cornea.—The cornea shoidd be generally inspected as to shape, size, clearness, and the presence or absence of opaci- ties. Its surface should then be examined by placing the patient opposite a window, and oljserving the image reflected from the various parts of the cornea as the eye follows the finger. A breach of surface can be detected by a dis- turbance of tlie image; it may then be verified by staining with fluorescine. Fluorescine 2 per cent, Ijicarbonate of soda 3 per cent in distilled water. The condition of the cornea generally can be best made out b}- examination by focal light; finally, the ophthalmoscope may be used with a lens of high power -I- 20 D behind the mirror. Examination hy focal light is carried out as follows:—A darkened room, a source of light, and a lens of about three inches focal length are necessary. The light is placed at about eighteen inches on one side of the patient's head, and is focused by the lens on the diff'erent parts of the cornea; the more obliquely the light falls on the eye the more clearly will opacities be seen. To obtain full advantage of this method the cornea should be magnified by a lens of high power held in the other hand. Inflammation of the Cornea.—Keratitis.—