CONSTIPATION 216 daily should occur. It is true that in the case of many, especially of the female sex, defecation occurs much less frequently—once in three or four days, or even seldomer; but while it has to be admitted that many of such cases present apparently few or none of the symptoms of faecal retention, yet none the less such a condition of the excretory functions can hardly be looked on as normal. The intestinal contents, which in the small bowel are in a very fluid condition, undergo a marked absorption during their passage through the large intestine. Hence it is only in the latter part of the colon that they assume the characteristic semi-solid appearance of a natural motion, and in the sigmoid flexure the fteces are stored until the act of defcccation takes place. The incitement to this is usually the passage into the rectum (as a result of peristalsis in the sigmoid flexure) of part of the contents of the latter. This is apparently frequently induced by the entrance into the empty stomach of food, especially when the sigmoid flexure is moderately distended with excreta. [An exaggeration of this normal mechanism is seen in what is known as lienteric diarrhoea, where the ingestion of a meal is at once followed by a desire for evacuation as the result of the entrance of a small quantity of fteces into the rectum from the merely partially loaded sigmoid.] Although the act is a reflex one carried out through a centre in the spinal cord, it is largely influenced by the will. In man this centre is situated in the lumbar region of the cord. The presence of the accumulated fgeces in the rectum causes, by reflex action through the centre, relaxation of the sphincter, while in- creased intestinal peristalsis is also set up. In voluntary defsecation the act is started by a full inspiration, closure of the glottis and fixation of the diaphragm, followed by contraction of the abdominal muscles and levator ani, the latter in this way exerting pressure on the rectum, while the tension of the pelvic fascia and muscles of the pelvic floor offer the required resistance. Definition.—Constipation may be defined as a condition in which the alvine evacuation is difficult and deficient either in amount or frequency, or both, with a consequent tendency to faecal retention. While in reality largely a symptom present in a great variety of conditions and not a disease, constipation is frequently in itself of so much importance as almost to warrant its being regarded as such. Certainly in view of the great frequency of its occurrence, the amount of discomfort and suifering it produces, as well as the beneficial effects and satisfactory results of its proper treatment, the condition is one which calls for more careful attention and less em- pirical treatment than it often receives from the practitioner. (For constipation in children see " Gastro-Intestinal Disorders.'') Causes.—While the causes of constipation are so numerous and varied that it is difficult to summarise them, it is essential to the satis- factory treatment of any case that the real source of the trouble be discovered. As a rule several factors are at work, and these may perhaps be best considered briefly under two heads :—(A) Faulty expulsive mechanism ; (B) Faults in the intestinal contents. Faulty Expulsive Mechanism. — In this first group of causes one of the most important is that of habit; carelessness in attending to the call to stool, with the result that the bowel becomes accustomed to the presence of faecal accumulations, and one of the chief stimuli to regular defaecation is thus lost. In other cases the sedentary habits or occupation of the patient, with the consequent feebleness of the abdominal muscles and sluggishness of the whole circula- tion, constitute a powerful factor. In another group of cases the source is to be found in the hoivel. Apart from the existence of actual constriction from malignant disease in the bowel, the possibility of which must never be lost sight of even in comparatively young subjects, constipation may arise from feebleness of peristaltic force consequent on a lowering of the nervo-muscular tone of the bowel, e.g. in old age or anaemia, from cicatrisation of old ulcers, from the presence of peritonitis (subacute or chronic) or old-standing bands or adhesions (impeding peristalsis), from pressure on the bowel by tumours or other swellings of adjacent parts, e.g. uterine enlargements, physiological or pathological, ovarian tumours, etc. ; while, again, the over - distension which may result from such blocking of the lumen of the bowel still further tends to perpetuate the malady by lessening the peristaltic force. In other in- stances, especially of painful pelvic disorders in women, the dread of pain in defaecation and actual pain itself may have an inhibitive effect on peristalsis, and the same is seen in cases of haemorrhoids, anal fissure, etc. On the other hand, the constipation may arise from an interference with the nervous mechanism concerned in controlling the act of defaecation, from involvement of the centres or nerve-fibres, as in some forms of spinal disease, or as a part of various cerebral disorders, e.g. melancholia, tubercular meningitis, etc. Lastly, inefficiency of the accessory muscular mechanism may contribute to the production of constipation, as in some cases of paralysis, or in patients whose abdominal muscles have been over-distended, e.g. by repeated pregnancies, ascites, etc.; or, again, the presence of severe cardiac or pulmonary disease may render any straining efforts on the part of the patient impossible. Faults in the Intestinal Contents.—The solid