CATARACT 64 early operation is tlie main practical point to keep in view in connection with such cataracts. Their diagnosis presents no difficulties, and the differences met with in different cases are only of scientific interest. They are almost invari- ably bilateral. A complete cataract existing in one eye only of a child is almost certainly of traumatic origin. A careful examination of the cornea will usually in these cases reveal a scar, often a very faint one, owing to the rapid tissue changes of child- hood. The scar indicates where the perforation of the eye took place. Curioiisly enough, parents and others who bring young children with traumatic cataract long after the accident which caused it often deny that any accident has taken place. They usually admit it, how- ever, when it is pointed out to them that the scar is visible. Sometimes, as, for instance, when the penetration has been made with the point of a fine needle or a fine pair of scissors, the parents may actually be ignorant at the time that so serious an accident has occurred. One of the most frequent forms of juvenile cataract is what is called lamellar cataract. This is a partial, stationary cataract. It is either congenital or developed very early in life. In lamellar cataract only some of the lens fibres, which are arranged in lamellfe, are intrans- parent; hence the name. The defect of vision which this variety produces varies in degree according to the position and number of the intransparent lamellas. The pupil shows only a moderate degree of opacity, sometimes, indeed, so slight that it is difficult to diagnose the con- dition without the ophthalmoscope. The oph- thalmoscopic appearance is characteristic. If the pupil be dilated it is found that a disc-shaped darkening of the fundus reflex occupies a cen- tral area of it. The shaded area varies in extent, appears darker at its margins, and is surrounded by a clear zone. Often the circular line corre- sponding to the margin of the opacity is broken by little protrusions, which on closer inspection are found to be caused by more peripheral in- transparencies, which, as they embrace the edge of the main opacity, have received the name of " riders." Lamellar cataract is rarely noticed before schooling has begun. Then it is found that the child's sight is less acute than normal. Objects in order to be seen are held closer to the eyes than under normal conditions. This attracts attention, and is usually supposed to indicate the existence of myopia. Often, indeed, and no doubt as the result of this too close application of the eyes, the condition actually does become complicated with myopia. Anything, in fact, which causes the persistent use of the eyes in early life for the seeing of objects which lie too near to them is apt to give rise to myopia. The question which has to be determined in all cases of lamellar cataract is whether or not it is desirable to operate. As the operation consists of removing the lens in some manner or other, any power of accommodation must necessarily be lost after operation. The question to be considered then is whether the improve- ment in vision which the operation will cause is sufficient to counterbalance the risk of opera- tion, the necessity for wearing cataract glasses, and the loss of accommodation. Obviously, there must be some limit for which the advan- tages and disadvantages are pretty equally balanced. This limit will vary, too, according to the individual views of different operators. Some even go the length of operating on one eye only, leaving the other untouched, so as to retain as far as possible both advantages, that of increased visual acuity in the operated eye, and retention of accommodation in the one which remains unoperated upon. This, of course, is done at the expense of binocular vision. It is rare that such a practice is to be recommended. Indeed, it should only be re- sorted to when one eye is considerably worse than the other, and at the same time the occupation of the individual makes it seem advantageous. In this respect each case must be judged on its merits. A good practical rule to be guided by is to recommend operation when the visual acuity is less than |-^, and to advise the patient to have nothing done where the acuity is greater than this limit. Here, again, however, one must to some extent be guided by the wishes of the patient, when matters have been properly ex- plained to him or his parents, as well as by the nature of the occupation which he follows or wishes to follow. Lamellar cataractis almost invariably bilateral. It seems to stand in some relation to rickets, though in most cases the manifestations of rickets are not particularly pronoimced. Often there is an absence of enamel on the teeth, especially the canines. Children with congenital cataract in any form are occasionally of more or less markedly weak intellectual development. Treatment of Cataract.—Nothing is known to have any definite effect in checking the progress of cataract. The degenerative process seems as a rule to be so intimately associated with diffi- culties of nutrition depending upon the natural structure of the crystalline lens, and so rarely dependent upon general conditions of health, that it is unlikely that the progression of cataract could be influenced by general treat- ment. It is conceivable, no doubt, that the conditions of nutrition might be modified to advantage by local treatment. Hitherto, how- ever, any treatment which has been adopted to dissipate cataract has been by secret remedies. The favourable results claimed for such remedies have never been substantiated. It is even doubtful if any ordinary use of the eyes in any way influences the process. This being the