264 CYST Cysts, etc.); Palate {Tumours, Dermoids, Cysts); Pancreas, Diseases of (Cysts); Peritoneum (JVew Growths, Cysts); Peritoneum, Tumours of (Cysts, Dermoids). Cyst- or CystO-.—In compound words cyst- or cysto- generally means relating to the bladder (iirinaiy or gall l)ladder) or to any cyst- like structure. CyS'ta.denonna..—An adenoma contain- ing cysts. Cysta.lg'ia.—Pain in the bladder, espe- cially the cases in which there is no recognisable lesion. See Bladder, In.juries and Diseases (Chronic Cystitis, Dim/nosis); Hysteria (Dis- orders of the Urinary System, Bladder). Cysta.trophy.—Atrophy of the bladder (urinary). Cystauchenotomy.—Incision of the neck (Gr. av}(^,'jv, the neck) of the bladder (uri- nary). Cystauxe.—Hypertrophy of the bladder (urinary), especially thickening of the walls (Gr. av^'ij, enlargement); cysthypei'sarcosis. Cystectasy.—The operation hy which foreign bodies are extracted from the urinary bladder by forceps, the prostatic xirethra having been dilated and the membranous urethra divided. Cystectomy.—Excision of the bladder (gall). CystencephaluS. — The teratological type in wliich the basis cranii is covered by a sac containing fluid and representing the brain. Cystic—Cyst-like, or bladder-like, or be- longing to the urinary bladder or the gall- bladder. See Abdomen, Injuries of (Rupture of Cystic Duct); Neck, Region of (Cystic Hy- groma) ; Prostate Gland (Cystic Diseases) ; Urachus (Cystic Dilatation op) ; etc. CySticerCUS BoviS.—The scolex or larval stage of the tapeworm, Tcenia medio- canellata. See Parasites (Cestodes, Taenia Saginata). Cysticercus Cellulosaa. — The scolex or larval stage of the common tapeworm, Tmiia solium. See Hydatid Disease ; Orbit, Diseases (Parasitic Cysts); Parasites (Cestodes, TcKwia Solium); Tongue (Cysts); Tumours of THE Skin (Cysticercus Cellidosce Cutis); Vitreous Humour, Diseases (Parasites). Cysticercus Tenuicoliis. — The larval stage of Tfrnia marginata: See Para- sites (Cestodes, Taenia Marginata). Cyst in.—A rare deposit in urine (cystin- uria), consisting of hexagonal crystals, some- I times forming calculi ; it is the disulphide of amidopropionic acid (CgH^NO.^S) ; it is not soluble in warm water or dilute acetic acid, but is freely so in ammonia ; it gives to the urine an odour of sweet briar which soon changes to a disagreeable smell. See Physiology, Excretion (Urine, Sidphur - containing Bodies); Urine, Pathological Changes m(Cystinuria,Sediments, Cystill); Unconsciousness (Auto-Ditoxications, Cystinuria). Cystitis. See Bladder, Diseases op (Di- fl.amvKttion, Acute and Chronic); Bladder, In- juries and Diseases of (Calculus Vesicae, Dia- gnosis) ; Bladder, Tumours of (Sym2)toms); Kid- ney, Surgical Affections of (Pyelitis, Etiology); Paralysis (Subacute Combined Degeneration of the Cord, Symptoms); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic FhOOR (Cystocele, Complication); Rectum, Diseases of (Cystitis a Cause of Rectal Symp- toms) ; SpERMATORRH(EA(6Wses); Syringomyelia (Cause of Death); Typhoid Fever (Complica- tions, Cystitis); Urachus (Fistula, Causes of); Urethra, Diseases op (Gonorrhoea, Complica- tions); Urine, Bacteria in (Cystitis).] CystOCeie. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of (MaljMsitions, Hernia, or Cystocele); Hernia (Hernia of Special Viscera, Bladder); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs (Injuries to the Perineum, Results) ; Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor (Cystocele); Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications (Vesical CovijMcations); Uterus, Displacements of (Pro- lapse of the Uterus, Diagnosis). Cystodynia. See Cystalgia. CyStoenterOCele. —A hernia con- taining l)oth bladder and intestine; when the omentiHu is also included, it is termed a cystoenteroepi'plorele ; when the omentum and the bladder are the contents, it is named cystoepi- plocele. CystOlithiasiS.—Stone or gravel in the 1 (ladder. Cystoma.—A cystic growth, e.g. an ova- rian cystoma. CystoptOSiS.—Projection of the vesical mucous uieinbrane from the lu'ethra due to re- laxation of the same. CyStopyelitiS. — inflammation of the bladder and of the pelvis of the kidney. See Kid- ney, Surgical Affections op (Injuries, Results). CystorriiexiS.—Rupture of the urinary liladder (e.g. in injuries or in retroversion of the gravid uterus). CystOSChisiS.—Extroversion of the uri- nary liladder or ectopia vesicfe. CystOSCOpe, tiie. See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of (Tunnours, Cystoscopic Examination); Gynecology, Diagnosis in (Cysto-