CORNEA 238 fluent, and from this region gradually extend towards the margin; the cornea is almost uniformly grey, the centre being more opaquely grey than the periphery. At the same time the epithelium is swollen and loses its polish; with a magnifying glass or corneal microscope the individual cells can be seen unevenly osdomatous. There are varieties in the amount of vascularity present; in some cases the vessels can be seen singly', in others they are vei'y numerous and appear only as a pink patch in the cornea, a condition known as a salmon patch. The density of the opacity varies gi-eatly, and is, as a rule, patchy; at the height of the attack the deeper parts of the eye cannot be seen with any clearness, but, as a rule, it can be made out that the anterior chamber is deep, that the pupil is either not dilated freely or that adhesions are present, and that there is a deposit on the back of the cornea, keratitis jmnctata, the sign of involvement of the ciliary body. The tension of the eye is generally rather lowered. In older patients from the beginning the corneal opacity in its earliest stage some- times takes on the striated form, grey lines are seen deep in the corneal substance; these are followed by the development of a general haze of the deepest layers of the cornea. Interstitial keratitis is always chronic in its course; the opacity of the cornea and the in- flammatory and irritative symptoms go on increasing for about two months, and then slowly decline. At its worst the vision is much reduced, even to the perception of hand movements. As the attack abates the ciliary congestion diminishes, the cornea clears from the periphery, and the sight begins to improve, the clearing and improvement in vision continu- ing for many months. The severity of the attacks varies very greatly: in young children it is not uncommon to see a few maculse at the periphery, or a slight central haze with ciliary congestion disappearing entirely in a very few weeks, an attack in miniature only; on the other hand, in the worst cases the irritative symptoms may last twelve months or longer, and the cornea may be converted into a dense white tendinous structure absolutely opaque. It happens rarely that the cornea yields owing to inflammatory softening and becomes bulged ; this is sometimes imiform, and may subside without causing any gross change in the corneal curvature; at other times the yielding of the cornea may be preceded by the formation of a gumma of the cornea, a local mass of granulation tissue surrounded by a dense felt of vessels, and having a tendency to degenerate at the centre. It is very uncommon for an abscess or ulcer to form; the gumma, like most of the manifesta- tions of interstitial keratitis, undergoes slow involution in most instances. The participation of the uveal tract of the eye in interstitial keratitis is one of the marked features of the disease. It is ditticult to form an estimate of the depths in the cornea of the changes even with a highlj^ magnifying lens especially as in the period of evolution the irritative symptoms prevent careful examina- tion, but the deposits in Descemet's membrane are generally well-marked dots of varying size, sometimes densely crowded and very fine, at other times large, like spots of grease ; these are either scattered generally over the back of the cornea, or chiefly collected at the lower part. Occasionally the appearances suggest an almost universal change in the endothelium in certain areas of the lower part of the cornea, as if there were an irregular deposit of amorphous cretaceous granules on it. Iritis is shown by hyperiemia of the iris, posterior s^'nechiai, and exudations into the pupillary area; the failure of the pupil to dilate under atropine is sometimes marked, even when on recovery there can be found little or no sign of past iritis : the failure of dilation probably arises from the absence of absorption of the atropine through the inflamed cornea. After recovery it is often possible to make out recent extensive peripheral choroiditis, either in the affected eye or its fellow. The share taken by the uveal ti'act varies from a degree in which it can scarcely l)e verified to almost pure irido- cyclitis, with slight involvement of the cornea only. A rule, with scarcely any exception, is that the disease occurs in both eyes; the interval between the two, however, may be as much as from three to four years ; recurrences may take place, Vmt after a typical well-developed attack they are rare. Among young children it is not uncomaion to see slight attacks of interstitial keratitis or hybrid interstitial and phlyctenular attacks recurring several times, followed at a somewhat later period in life by a well-developed attack of interstitial keratitis, after which there is no more trouble. It is well to warn the patient's friends, as soon as the nature of the affection is recognised, of its probable duration, of the almost certain involvement sooner or later of the other eye, and also of the ultimate probable recovery of very useful vision. Nothing is so encouraging to the patient as the assurance of recovery during the long weeks of suffering. Causes of Interstitial Keratitis.—It is more common in females than in males; the age of greatest prevalence is from about seven to eighteen, but these limits are not very strict. I have seen a few cases in quite young children under the age of two, and it is not uncommonly seen up to twenty-five, and sometimes up to thirty years. The most frequent cause of interstitial kerat- itis is hereditary syphilis, which in most of the cases may be recognised by its stigmata without having to question the parents directly. But