DISEASES OF CONJUNCTIVA, Tuberculosis . . . . . .211 Syphilis . . . . . .212 Ophthalmia Nodosa . . . .212 Degenerations— Xerosis, Pemphigus, Lardaceous Degeneration, Conjunctivitis Petri- ficans . . . . . .212 Various Conditions— Pterygium, Symhlepharpn, Pinguecula, Effusions into the Conjunctiva, Staining of, Lithiasis, Conjunctivitis from Dazzling, Emphysema . . 213 Tumours of . . . . . .214 Injuries of . . . . . .214 See also Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Conjunctiva); Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels {Hyperaemia of Brain, Symptoms, Injection of Conjunctiva) ; Conjunctivitis ; Cornea (Z7/cem<(0«); Diphtheria (Con/;mcitm^); Glanders, Farcy (Symptoms in Man); Hysteria (Sensory Disorders, Ocidar); Herpes (Ocular Complications); Menstruation and its Dis- orders (Vicarious Menstruation) ; Myiasis (Myiasis Conjunctiva}); Nephritis (Chronic, Watery Appearance of Conjunctiva). Anatomy of the Conjunctiva The conjunctiva externally is continuous with the skin at the free edge of the eyelids, and internally with the Schneiderian membrane by way of the lacrymal ducts. The pinkish palpebral conjunctiva is firmly attached to the inner surface of the eyelids, and is connected with the ocular conjunctiva by the retro-tarsal folds, one above and one below, which by their loose arrangement prevent any dragging upon the lids by the movements of the eyeball. The ocular conjunctiva lies upon the anterior part of the sclera; it is pale and thin enough to allow the sclera to be seen through its texture. It is loosely attached to the underlying sclerotic, so that it may be readily picked up with forceps. By a sort of reduplication it forms towards the inner angle of the eyelids a more or less vertical fold, the plica semilunaris, a vestigial relic of the third eyelid of certain lower animals. The small reddish mass, often covered with fine hairs, which lies between the plica and the inner commissure of the eyelids, is called the caruncle. Around the cornea the ocular conjunctiva becomes closely knit to the underlying sclera, and forms what is known as the limhus conjunctivce, a position in which blood-vessels are especially numerous. The conjunctiva covers the anterior surface of the cornea, but in that position it is reduced to a few layers of epithelial cells. The nervous supply of the conjunctiva comes from branches of the fifth cranial nerve; the vascular supply mainly from the posterior ciliary vessels. The lymphatics comprise a superficial and a deep set, with communicating branches. Malformations and Congenital Anomalies Fihro -fatty Tumour. — Syn. Subconjunctival Lipoma or Lipo - dermoid. — This congenital anomaly is not uncommon, but as it generally causes no marked deformity, it falls compara- tively seldom under the notice of the surgeon. The tumour takes the form of a soft, slightly raised yellowish mass, more or less triangular in form, and usually occupying the interval be- tween the superior and the external rectus muscle. It lies beneath the ocular conjunctiva, and is freely movable upon the globe. As a rule, its investing conjunctiva appears normal, but short hairs may be present, a condition to whicli the name trichosis bulbi has been applied. There are a few cases recorded where a tumour occupying the customary position of a fibro- fatty growth was found to contain an osseous nucleus, in some instances covered with peri- osteum. I believe, as a result of microscopic investigations of these cases, that they are probably of a dermoid nature, and when they contain bone should be classed as teratoma. Treatment. — When inconspicuous these growths are best left alone. Otherwise, the conjunctiva may be reflected, and some of the exposed fatty - looking material snipped away with fine curved scissors. The conjunctiva is afterwards replaced, and kept in position by inserting a continuous suture. Dermoid Tumours.—The ordinary dermoid forms a solid pinkish - white growth, usually situated at the lower and outer part of the sclero-corneal junction, and encroaching to a variable extent upon both cornea and con- junctiva. It is attached firmly to the cornea. Hairs may or may not grow from the dermoid, the top of which is now and then dry and fatty- looking. The tumour (generally limited to a single eye) is usually about the size of a split pea. A case has been reported, nevertheless, where the growth had reached the bulk of a horse-bean, while upwards of twelve long hairs grew from its middle part, passed between the eyelids, and hung upon the cheek. The patient remarked that these hairs did not appear until he was sixteen years of age, at which time also his beard grew. The dermoid often shows a distinct tendency to get larger, and to become hairy at or about puberty. The microscope shows that these growths include the elements of ordinary skin, as epithelium, glands, hair follicles, etc. Treatment.—The growth may be removed by careful dissection. NcEvi.—Angiomata, plexiform or cavernous, may involve the conjunctiva, and are usually associated with a similar condition of the eye- Hds, orbit, face, or of other parts of the body. The commonest clinical appearance is that of a small or large patch of purplish-red discolora- tion affecting the palpebral mucous membrane.