CONSTIPATION 217 as well as the liquid ingesta may be at fault, or, on the other hand, the intestinal secretions may be defective. Tluis the food taken may be too soft and too easily absorbed, leaving little or no residue, such a diet in many cases having been adopted because of deficient masticating powers owing to loss of teeth. Or the intestinal con- tents may be too dry, either from insufficiency of liquids taken or deficiency in the intestinal secretions. Instances of this latter are seen in cases of jaiuidice, diabetes, etc., or cases of excessive perspiration (from exercise or disease), bringing about increased loss of fluid from the body. In other instances the quality of the drinking water is at fault; thus it may contain an excessive amount of lime salts, or it may be contaminated, e.g. with lead. Symptoms.—When constipation is merely one of the manifestations of the presence of some other malady {e.g. tubercular meningitis) its symptoms are scarcely to be separated from those attendant on the primary disease. But while it is undoubtedly true that in many in- stances of habitual constipation the patient exhibits little in the way of symptoms, yet in the majority of cases there are found to be present to a greater or less extent such manifestations as general languor, torpidity, and depression of spirits, along with irritability, a feeling of fulness in the head, passing into actual headache, furring of the tongue, with foulness of breath and loss of appetite, together with some feeling of fulness and distension in the abdomen, or even pain. In a few cases marked mental disturbance is present. Severer cases may be attended by vomiting, hiccough, etc., the usual symptoms of intestinal obstruction. The characteristic stools in constipation con- sist of small, dry, hard, often dark, and offensive masses, along with which, in cases of old stand- ing, is occasionally to be found mucus, or even blood, if severe straining has been required for their expulsion. Lastly, it must never be forgotten that diiirj'/uea may be really a symptom of constipa- tion, the accumulated f«cal masses by their presence giving rise to catarrh in the lower part of the bowel, with consequent desire for frequent evacuation. In such cases it is often only on digital examination of the rectum that the existence of constipation is revealed, as shown by the continued presence of scybalous masses in the rectum in spite of frequent evacuations. In addition, what may be termed secondary symptoms of constipation may arise, either locally, e.g. prolapse of the bowel, lunemorrhoids, etc. ; or as the result of pressure on the sur- rounding parts consequent on the loaded condition of the bowel there may be vesical or uterine catarrh ; or, again, varicosity of the veins of the leg (especially the left) may be increased, if not actually set up. Before commencing treatment it is important, in view of the difference of prognosis in the two conditions, to decide if possible whether the case be one of mere functional derangement or of organic disease. Treatment. —As has been already insisted on, this must be rational, and adapted to the particular causes at work in each case, and to this end the relatively subordinate position of drugs in the treatment of the majority of cases should always be borne in mind. The mere routine ordering of some cathartic remedy, without further attempting to prevent the recur- rence of the constipation, cannot be too strongly condemned. The enormous and increasing con- sumption of innumerable patent medicines in- dicates only too clearly the extent of the evil, which is unfortmiately too often only perpetuated by their injudicious employment. The admin- istration of a vigorous cathartic, however, as a conmiencement to the thorough treatment of a case of constipation is often not only very beneficial, but even essential; but it is always advisable to explain fully to the patient the general hygienic and dietetic management of the condition before advising the employment of medicinal remedies. Habit.—This is one of the most important prophylactic measures in the treatment of con- stipation. The patient must be urged to go to stool each day regidarly at the same hour, preferably after a meal, but the time should be chosen with a view rather to its being available every day for this purpose. Thus for those whose business requires them to take breakfast at varying hours—often with a hurried rush for trains, etc.—the habit of going to stool at bed- time should be recommended ; similarly those who suffer from severe anal troubles, and especi- ally prolapse or piles, should be advised to choose the same hour. Not only will the patient be likely to obtain then greater facilities for spong- ing himself and returning the protruded mass, but the subsequent rest in bed allows of the congestion subsiding before active exertion is again called for. It is of the utmost importance that this habit of punctual daily evacuation of the bowels should be insisted on from early childhood in both sexes. Too little attention is paid to this matter, especially in girls, entailing much subsequent annoyance, and even suffering. Those who have not acquired this regular habit must be encour- aged to persevere in going regularly to stool at a fixed hour, even although no motion may result at first. In some cases the adoption of the more " crouching" attitude natural to defsecation in the open air — as by using a chamber-pot—has been recommended. Again, with many, smoking after a meal acts decidedly as a laxative, but the all-important Y^omt \& regularity a.wdi 2^unctuality in the daily evacuation. Diet.—The patient's diet should always be