DELIRIUM whence the disease has acquired its pniiular name of the "horrors." The terror inspired may be so great as to lead liim to jump out of the window or run into the street half naked. Auditory hallucinations are less constant, but are not rare. The tongue is moist, tremulous, and covered with a thick whitish-yellow fur. The jiulsc is rapid and soft. The temperatiu'e is usually modei-ately raised. After a few days, in a mild case, the symptoms gradually subside, and sleep and appetite return. The tremor persists for a few days longer. In severe cases the course of the disease is more protracted, the insomnia persists, the distaste for food is aggravated and may be associated with troublesome vomiting, exhaustion becomes extreme, and death may occur from heart failure. In other cases again the acute symptoms pass oft] but the patient remains for a time the subject of hallucinations, or of insanity with melancholic delusions. After repeated attacks the brain becomes more and more enfeebled until a condition of dementia is reached. Prognosis.—In a sti'ong patient with a healthy constitution recovery is the rule. In all cases the strength of the patient, his history as to intemperance and previous attacks, and the severity of the attack, have to be taken into account. An attack in which the patient im- agines he sees small olijects such as spiders or beetles about the bed is apt, other things being- equal, to be more grave than one in which he sees larger objects such as cats and dogs. Where no history of long-continued intemperance can be obtained, the presence of peripheral neuritis, indicated by extreme tenderness of the calves on deep pressure, will tell its own tale. All patients must be examined carefully for evidence of acute disease, particularly pneumonia, the symptoms of which are sometimes latent. Treatment.—Delirium tremens being a self- limited disease resulting often in extreme exhaustion, the principal indications for treat- ment are to maintain the strength and to procure sleep. The former is best carried out by keep- ing the patient in bed, and administering easily assimilable nourishment — milk, strong soups, etc.—at short intervals. Every effort should be made to keep the patient in bed by per- suasion, but in cases with very great excitement and violence it is better to resort to mechanical restraint than to permit prolonged struggling between the patient and his attendants. As to procuring sleep, it has to be remembered that in a mild case sleep will tend to come naturally in the course of three or four nights, and it is not advisable to push the use of hyp- notics too early. Nevertheless, in the majority of cases the early excitement can be (juickly re- duced, the restlessness and consequent nnistndar exhaustion diminished, and the coming of sleep hastened by the judicious use of hypnotic drugs. TREMENS 299 although it cannot be claimed for them that they cut short the disease. As to tlie drugs to be used, a combination of chloral and Ijromide of soda judiciously administered and with due regard to the efl'ect obtained will be found per- fectly satisfactory in most cases. Opium was at one time far more used than at pi'esent. Most of the newer hypnotics liave been extensively tried during recent years. Alcohol should be avoided as much as possible in the treatment of delirium tremens. Still it is of value in a few severe cases with marked prostration, and especially in such cases when complicated with pneumonia. After recovery from the immediate attack further treatment is indicated on the lines laid down in the article " Alcoliolism." Delivery, aw Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Trau^verife Licx, Spontaneous De- livery); Lahour, Management {A fter Delivery); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged ; Labour, Faults in the Passenger; Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs; Labour, Opera- tions (Induction, of Freniature Labour) ; Medi- cine, Forensic {Delivery, Signs of); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications; Pregnancy, HAEMORRHAGE {Forced Delivery) ; Puerperium, Physiology {Evitlences of Recent Delivery); Puerperium, Phvsiolo(;y (J/an'ii/e//ient). Delphine. See Alkaloids {Deljihinina); Sta\isAcjii.i; Semina. Delta. —The fourth letter of the Greek aljiliabet (A) ; the capital (A) is used as a sign for the freezing-point of the urine in cryoscopy, and the small letter (o) for that of the blood. See Cryoscupv. Deltoid Muscle. <SVe Muscles, Trau- matic Affections {Rupture); Shoulder, Dis- eases AND Injuries ov {I'anily^is af tJie Deltoiil). De lunatico inquirendo.—An in quisition in lunacy : auth<irity to inquire into tlie mental state of any one by a writ from the High Court of Chancery. See Lunacy {Lunney Laics, C/iaiicrry Liniafirs). Delusional Insanity. See Insanity, NaTUI!E ami SVMPI'dMS {Tyjns of Upisodic Insanity, Delusional Stupor and Insanity);. Paranoia. See also Chorea {Choreic Insanity, Delusional)-. Climacteric Insanity (Clinical Fornix, Delusional). Delusions. See Alcoholic Insanity {Clinical Types); Climacteric Insanity (/wsawe Delusions) ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Systematic Delusions, Fixed and Frogressive Delusions) ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Symptoms, Fsychic.al); Paranoia (Frogressive Syste/natised Insau/ty).