326 DIABETES MELLITUS deposit has been left behind. The sugar present in diabetic urine is grape-sugar (glucose), and its amount varies according to the nature of the case from 0-5 to 6, 8, or 12 per cent. The daily amount excreted may be 3000 to 4000 grains, or more. (For sugar tests see articles on " Glyco- suria " and " Urine, Pathological Changes.") The sugar increases in mild cases after food, and diminishes during fasting, and hence the excre- tion is less during the night. In very mild cases sugar may be absent in the night urine (passed before breakfast), whilst it is abundant in the day urine. The sugar excretion is increased by starchy and saccharine foods, and diminished by nitrogenous diet. In mild cases, when carbo- liydrates are withdrawn from the diet, the sugar disappears from the urine, but returns when carbohydrates are taken again. In the mildest cases simple restriction of the carbohydrates is sufficient to cause the glycosuria to disappear. These are points of practical importance in urine testing in mild cases. In severe cases of diabetes sugar is present in the urine in spite of the with- drawal of all carbohydrate food, and may be jiresent during fasting. Sugar is the carbohydrate in the diet which causes glucose to be eliminated in the greatest quantity in the urine, whilst starch and other carbohydrates are less injurious. Grape-sugar is most injurious; fruit-sugar (Isevulose) is only about half as injurious as grape-sugar; milk- sugar and cane-sugar stand midway between grape-sugar and Isevidose. Fats never increase the sugar excretion, and alcohol in moderate quantity has no effect. Muscular exercise diminishes the sugar excre- tion in well-nourished patients suiTering from a mild form or early stage of the disease. But when the affection is severe, and the patient wasted, exercise increases the sugar excretion. The sugar excretion is often diminished or arrested by intercurrent affections. The excretion of urea is increased owing to the excess of nitrogenous food taken by the diabetic patient; only in a few cases is the in- creased urea excretion due to the destruction of the albumen of the body (Seegen). Not infrequently there is a small deposit of uric acid crystals at the bottom of the urine glass in mild cases of diabetes. The excretion of ammoiiia is increased in some cases, but not in all. In diabetes coma it is greatly increased. Sometimes there is an abundant deposit of oxalate of lime. At the early stage of the disease albuminuna is usually absent, but it frequently appears at a late stage of the disease. Thus in 100 cases the writer found albumen present in 30 when the patients first came under observation; but in some of the cases in which albuminuria was absent at first it developed later, so that finally it was present in 44 per cent. The albuminuria is usually very slight, and not associated with nephritis or any gross lesion of the kidneys; but in a few cases the albuminuria is abundant, and there are signs of parenchymatous or inter- stitial nephritis. In only 4 out of the 100 cases of diabetes just mentioned was the amount of albumen large. In diabetic coma albumen and casts are nearly always present in the urine; but otherwise the albuminuria is not accom- panied by casts, except in the rare case when there are indications of actual nephritis. When inflammation of the prepuce or of the vulva is present as a complication, the lu-ine, when recently passed, often contains fungus spores and mycelia along with a few pus cells. In diabetic females the urine is not infrequently slightly turbid, owing to the presence of pus and epithelial cells. In the severe forms of diabetes, when a solu- tion of perchloride of iron is added to the urine, there is at first a turbidity owing to the precipi- tate of phosphates, but on adding more of the perchloride solution a dark brownish-red colora- tion is often obtained. This coloration is known as Gerliardfs reaction, and is usually attributed to diacetic acid; by some it is attributed not to this substance, but to other closely-allied com- pounds. This reaction is an indication of a severe form of the disease; it is usually present in diabetic coma; but in mild forms of the disease it is absent. A similar reaction is oc- casionally met with in febrile diseases and several other aflr"ections. Also the urine of patients who are taking salol, salicylic acid, and salicylate of soda gives a dark, brownish-red coloration with perchloride of iron; but the colour has more of a violet or purple tint than that obtained in severe cases of diabetes. The urine of patients taking antipyrin, salipyrin, and several other drugs, also gives a brownish-red coloration with perchloride of iron. When the urine of a diabetic patient gives a reaction with perchloride of iron, often acetone is also present. It may be detected by Legal's test. To several cc. of urine a few drops of a concentrated, freshly-made sohition of nitro-prusside of sodium are added. The mixture is made alkaline with liquor potassse, and then acetic acid is added when a violet-red coloration is obtained. Another method is to distil about half a litre of urine ; to the distillate a few drops of a solution of iodine in iodide of potassium, and a few drops of caustic potash, are added. When acetone is present a precipitate of iodoform occiu-s. It is yellowish in colour, and has the chai'acteristic iodoform smell; imder the microscope it presents hexagonal plates or stai's. It has been shown that acetonui'ia may be produced in healthy persons by a diet of nitrogenous and fatty food, free from carbo- hydrates ; but on the addition of carb(jhydrates the acctonuria disappeai's (Hirschfeld, Rosen- feld, and others). A high degree of acetonuria or an increase of the acetone excretion is regarded by Hirschfeld as an indication of approaching coma.