CORNEA 241 the sclera V)y a thin band of transparent cornea. Tlie grey line is due to a hyaline change in the tissues of the cornea, and has no significance. Blood-staining of the cornea is found when the anterior chamber has been filled with blood for a long time. The cornea appears to be of a red-brown colour, and is quite opaque ; the ab- sorption goes on very slowly from the periphery. The staining is due to deposit in the cornea of blood crystals which have formed after diffusion of the blood colouring matter through Descemet s membrane. Keratitis Punctata.—This term has already been used ; it is commonly applied to the de- ])osits on the back of the cornea that are met with in inflammations of the ciliary body. A ninnber of fine dots is seen on the back of the cornea, sometimes evenly scattered, but more often found on a triangular area at the lower part of the cornea where they are formed by deposition. The dots consist of .shreds of fibrin and leucocytes cast oft' from the ciliary body and deposited on the corneal endothelium. Where tiiey are not soon removed by absorption they produce destructive changes in the endothelium. Some of these dots are of large size, and have the appearance of spots of grease on the back of the cornea. It is possible that these deposits may increase in size ; when examined in the fresh state they have been foinid U) contain colonies of bacteria (Snellen). Conical Cornea.—The central part of the cornea begins to bulge very gradually without inflammatory symptoms, forming a blunt cone ; in the more advanced cases the conicity is readily seen by looking at the profile of the cornea. The disease makes itself felt by a disturbance of vision; objects can only be seen clearly when held close to the eye, yet the sight is scarcely improved by concave glasses. The slighter degrees may be recognised by the ophthalmo- scope by a shadow seen on the background of the eye, crescentic or circular in shape, and shifting with the movements of the mirror; the condition may also be recognised by examining the corneal reflex with a Placido's disc, and com- paring it with that from a normal cornea. The disease may come to an end spontane- ously, or in the worst cases a nebula may be formed at the apex of the cone which is rather below the centre of the cornea; perforation never occurs. The affection is a rare one : it attacks l>oth eyes in young adults, especially women. It is atrophic in nature, and is due either to some developmental peculiarity in the corneal tissue, nr to defective nutrition in the part farthest removed from the blood-vessels. 'Treatment. — In the early stages some im- provement may be effected by prescribing con- cave glasses with cylinders, the proper strength nf which may be found out by the shadow test: these may be used either alone or combined with VOL. n an opaque screen having a small hole or narrow slit cut in it. Vision has been improved in many cases by hyperbolic glasses as suggested by liashlmann. Of other methods of treatment eserine or pilocarpine used continuously has been said to reduce the conicity, but in most cases it is of no use. Operative measures, with tlie ol)ject of flatten- ing the cone by forming a resistant cicatrix at or near it, ai-e to be recommended where the impairment of vision is very great. The ajDcx of the cone may be removed by shaving it off witli a (iraefe's knife without opening the anterior chamber, and after two days touching the raw surface with mitigated nitrate of silver stick. An elliptical flap may be removed from the apex of the cone, and the cornea afterwards sutured ; a small disc of the outer layers of the cone may be separated by a Bowman's trephine, and tlie surface allowed to heal and contract. Multiple punctures may be made into the apex of the cone with a fine needle, and repeated after some weeks, or the galvano-cautery may be used at a very didl heat to burn the surface layers of the cornea ; if per- foration take place during burning no harm will result to the deeper parts if care be used, as the cautery is at once chilled by the escaping aqueous. This last method has the advantage of being free from the risk of infection. Hydrophthalinos (Buphtlialmus).—The cornea undergoes general and progressive enlargement, and sometimes becomes hazy in this affection. The enlargement is part of a general enlarge- ment of the globe, and may be looked upon as congenital or infantile glaucoma. Tumours of the Cornea. — Tumours of the cornea are rare. Myxomata, fibromata, sarco- mata have been described as well as epithelio- mata starting from the limbus, and cysts following injuries, formed by the inclusion of cells from other parts in the corneal substance. Injuries.—Foreign Bodies in the Cornea.— Foreign bodies, fragments of steel or iron, small pieces of stone or particles of ash from locomotive engines, imbedded in the cornea, are very com- mon accidents, and give rise to varying amomits of pain and irritability. They sometimes remain for long periods with- out exciting distui'bance, as among those engaged in metal grinding, in whom the cornea may often be seen studded with minute fragments of stone which have been there an indefinite time. Scales of seeds or the wing-cases of small insects may adhere to the cornea by their concave surfaces. Particles of steel or iron become partly oxi- dised, and the foreign body may be often seen surrounded by a brown ring, which consists of sodden epithelium impregnated with oxide of iron. This ring may remain Itehind after re- moval of the particle, and continue to keep the IG