383 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM begins to contract. The following conditions also affect intestinal peristalsis. 1. Alterations in temperature.—On exposing the intestines to a temperature below 7° C. peristaltic movements stop, while on raising the temperature they increase. At 39° C. peri- stalsis in the raVjbit's intestine ceases, begin- ning again when the temperature is raised to 2. Effects of food and drink.—About fifteen minutes after food or after a drink of cold water peristalsis begins, while during the night the movements are markedly diminished. 3. Effect of drugs.—(.)pium and atropine para- lyse the action of vagus, and so hinder peri- stalsis ; while nicotine, both after injection into a blood-vessel and into the lumen of the intes- tine, produces increased contractions. Potassium and sodium salts also produce contractions, the former local, the latter more general in character. 4. Action of intestinal contents.—The bile and the intestinal gases increase peristalsis. FyECES. — The faeces contain the undigested residues of food-stuffs, decomposition products, such as indol, formed in the intestine, material secreted or shed by the passages through which the food has passed, and micro-organisms of different kinds. As a rule their reaction is acid, though it maybe neutral oralkaline, and their con- sistence also varies greatlyaccording to the nature of the food and the time spent in the intestinal canal. The food may act upon the character of the ffeces, either directly from its own composi- tion, or from its effect upon the gland secretions which are poured into the canal, or from its action on intestinal peristalsis. Thus a vegetable diet, from the high percentage of indigestible material and of water, and from the stimulant action of the insoluble cellulose on intestinal peristalsis, produces excreta which are charac- terised by their fluid consistence, richness in total solids, and, as a rule, poverty in colouring- material. Owing to the short period that the material is allowed to lie in the canal, reduction processes do not take place to the same extent as after a flesh diet. If the vegetable diet be rich in iron, the fteces are much darker in colour. The dark colour after flesh diet is due to the presence of hiiematin or bodies derived from it (ferrous sulphide, etc.), and also to reduced bile pigments or bodies derived from them. Under a mixed diet about 130 grammes are excreted in twenty-four hours. The most important gases present are nitrogen, hydrogen, carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, and methane. Ftcces can be formed in a separated loop of intestine, and also in the intestinal canal of starving animals even when bile has not been allowed to enter the intestine. The excreta are formed in such cases from the shedding of epithelium and the subsequent decomposition of such organic material by bacteria. Different bacteria may lie found in the fccces, e.g. putre- faction and fermentation organisms and bacillus coli communis. DEF,T<;cA'riON.—Although the act is a reflex one, carried out through a centre in the spinal cord, it is largely influenced by the will. In man this centre is situated in the lumbar region of the cord. The pressure of the accumulated fjcces in the rectum causes, by reflex action through the centre, relaxation of the sphincter, while increased intestinal peristalsis is also set up. In voluntary defsecation, the act is started by a full inspiration, closure of the glottis and fixation of the diaphragm, followed by contrac- tion of the abdonnnal muscles and levator ani the latter in this way exerting pressure on the rectum while the tension of the pelvic fascia offers the required resistance. By an eft'ort of the will the act may, up to a certain point, be inhibited especially by increasing the contrac- tion of the sphincter. Purgatives may act in different ways. The activity of salines depends upon their endosmotic equivalent, producing a retention of water in the intestine. Thus if salines be injected into the blood-vessels, consti- pation results. Some again act by increasing the amount of the intestinal secretions, while others act by increasing the rapidity or strength of the intestinal contractions {see " Constipation "). Digfitcll. — Belonging to the fingers or toes or performed by the fingers, e.g. digital nerves {see Defoemitibs, Metatarsalgia, Neur- itis), digital examinations {see Gynecology, I>[AGNOSis IX, Vaginal Examination). Digritalein and Digfitalin. See DlCUTALIS. Dig'italiS. See also Heart, Myocar- dium AND Endocardium {Treatment, Medicinal); Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Spasm (Varieties, Toxic) ; Toxicology' {Alkaloids and Vegetable Poisons, Foxglove). — The dried leaves of the purple foxglove. Digitalis imrpurea, contain the following principles:—1. Digitoxin, the most powerful, insoluble in water, soluble in alcohol. Dose — -io-^o gr. 2. Digitalin, the next in power, sparingly soluble in water. Dose—o-giy- gr. subcutaneously. 3. Digitalein, soluble in water. Dose—gr. subcutaneousl3^ 4. Digitonin, not nearly so powerful, allied to saponin. .5. Digitin. 6. Digitalic Acid. 7. Antirrhinic Acid. Of these tlie first three are glucosides, and are said to represent the action of digitalis on the cardiac mechanism. The fourth is a glucoside with an antagonistic effect. The fifth is a glucoside and physiologically inert. Preparations :—1. Infusum Digitalis. Dose— 2-4 3. 2. Tinctura Digitalis. Dose—5-15 m. The tincture contains a larger amount of digi- toxin, and has therefore probably more marked