156 CIVIL INCAPACITY—CAPACITY (MENTAL) FOR CIVIL CONTRACT, ETC. person is capable of distinctly understanding what it is that he is doing—is capable of expressing that purpose in intelligible language, and is capable of vinderstanding the consequences and effects of what he does—then he is capable of making such a settlement, and it is vain to go about scientific definitions or anything of the kind" {see also Erskine, J., in Urn-wood, 1840, 3 Moo. P. C. 282). A deed disclosing no trace of incapacity or insanity may nevertheless spring from an insane belief or delusion ; but in establishing this to the effect of invalidating the deed, it is necessary to prove not merely the groinidlessness of the belief, but also the impossibility of its being entertained by any sane mind. The existence of a disordered belief upon some extraneous point, having no connection with the subject matter of a settlement, is not necessarily fatal to the deed. In a recent case the House of Lords (reversing a judgment of the Scottish Courts) held that these alleged facts, if established, would be sufficient to invalidate, on the ground of mental incapacity, the will of a testator who directed the greater part of his large estate to be employed in promoting total abstinence and preventing the spread of Roman Catholicism. It was stated that upon these topics he was subject to insane delusions, and believed that he had an imperative duty to devote his pecuniary re- sources to these objects in consequence of commands which he had received from the Deity by direct communication upon various occasions ; and these insane delusions dominated his mind and mastered his judgment to such an extent as to render him incapable of making a reasonable and proper settlement of his estate {Hope, 1898, 1 Frasei-, H. L. 1 ; see also Lord Penzance in Smith, 1867, L. R. 1 P. & D. 398). It is necessary, then, that a testator should have sufficient memory to recall the amount and character of the property of which he is possessed, and to remember the several persons who may be said to have claims on him. Along with this memory, he must also have his judg- ment reasonably clear and free from morbid and insane ideas, so as to be able to decide as to these claims. The question of the mental capacity of a person to enter into a particular contract or to execute a particular will is frequently combined with allegations of undue influence exercised by those who benefit by this act. The inquiry is then, of course, pointedly directed to determin- ing whether he was facile, unduly liable to persuasion, easily incited to wrong views and feelings,—how far incapable of resisting pres- sure. This incapacity to enter into civil contracts, etc., exists only when and so long as the person is insane. If he recovers his sanity permanently, or even temporarily, his contracts and deeds are valid. A will executed in a lucid interval, even by a person tlien confined in an asylum, is perfectly valid (see Nisbet's Trs. 1871, p. 9 ; Macpherson's Eejm-ts, p. 937). In such a case the rationality of the document itself is regarded as an important piece of evidence in favour of sanity. The burden of proof is shifted—that is all. Whereas a man is presumed sane until he has been proved to be insane, a person once proved to be insane is presumed to be insane until his recovery is proved. Moral Insanity.—It has been judicially laid down in England (by Sir H. J. Fust in Frere, 1846, 1 Rob. E. R. pp. 442, 446) that moral insanity, unaccompanied by delusion, does not invalidate a will. But this can scarcely be said to be recognised in modern practice. There can be little doubt that proof of the insane perversion of the moral feelings wovild at least he held sufficient to invalidate a will (see Wood Ronton on Lunacy, p. 5-5). Civiliza,tion.—The advance or develop- ment of Inmian society from a less to a more complicated condition of affairs, from a lower to a higher grade of complexity ; this is believed (from a medical standpoint) to increase the frequency of insanity and cancer, and to make the process of childbirth more difficult. Bee Insanity, Etiology. CivitaveCCh ia.. Bee Balneology (Italy, Sulphur Waters). Cladothrix Dichotoma.—Aspecies of cladothrix, one of the genus of Schizomycetes ; the name is derived from /cAaSos, a branch, and dpi.^, hair, in reference to the pseudo-branching filaments of which the growth is composed. See Micro-Organisms (Bacteria, Schizomycetes); Teeth (General Bacteriology of Mouth). Clairvoyance.—The supposed state of mind of a person who can, it is said, see mentally, when under the influence of animal magnetism, places and persons and things he has never seen before, and give a correct de- scription of them; this supposed power has been alleged to be found to be of use in medical diagnosis. Clamp.—An instrument for grasping and compressing firmly structures and tissues, e.g. an artery to stop hfemorrhage. See Angeio- TRiBE, etc. Clap. See Urethra, Diseases of (Gonor- rhwa). Clapotag^G.—The splashing sounds heard on auscultation over a dilated stomach. Clarke's Column.— The group of nerve cells lying at the inner angle of the posterior horn of grey matter in the spinal cord ; the columna vesicularis.