471 EAR, EXTP]RNAL, DISEASES OF fluctuate considerably, owing to changes in the size and position of the plug, effected by the entrance of moisture, sudden movement of the head, or efforts to allay itchiness. The accumulation may go on for a considerable time without causing deafness so long as there is an apertui'e, however slight, but the entrance of moisture during washing or in the bath may be the immediate cause of sudden and, to the patient, alarming deafness. Ultimately, the deafness becomes uniformly severe owing to complete impaction or hardening of the plug. Subjective sounds, such as disagreeable buzz- ing, singing or rushing, are sometimes very annoying features of this form of deafness. They may be reflex from pressure on the nerve twigs in the meatus, or they may be due to direct pressure upon the tympanic membrane, and, through the ossicles, upon the labyrinthine fluid. Pain in the ear is occasionally complained of, but a sense of itchiness or of " stopping up" is more commonly present. Pain of a severe nature is sometimes excited by inflam- mation of the lining of the meatus, due to the pressure of the hard mass. Giddiness has been occasionally observed in connection with impacted cerumen. The long-continued pressure of a ceruminous plug is capable of exciting inflammation of the tympanic membrane; in this way a perforation or opacity and thickening of the membrane may result. Prognosis.—Although there is manifest plug- ging of the meatus we must not at once promise a cure, owing to the fact that there may coexist an incurable deeper-seated affection. In probably two-thirds of the cases we shall find that either complete recovery or improvement of the hearing- will follow the effective syringing of the ear. If the deafness has come on suddenl}^, especially after such a cause as the entrance of water, and if there are marked fluctuations in the hear- ing, the removal of the mass will probably result in restoi'ation. In many persons defective hear- ing from ceruminous collection tends to recur at intervals of months or years, and in such cases it proves, not infrequently, the precui'sor of other and more permanent forms of deafness. Diagnosis.—The presence of excess of ceru- men is easily demonstrated by the use of the specuhmi and reflecting mirror, when the ex- ternal meatus may be found completely blocked, or the collection may be confined to the inner part of the canal, where it sometimes escapes detection by tlic unpractised examiner. Masses of epithelium, epidermis, or fungi; collections of dried pus coloured with cerumen (concealing, it may be, an old perforation), are apt to be mistaken for ceruminous collection. Careful examination may show that the meatus is not entirely closed by the mass, and that the deaf- ness is really due to some other cause. Treatment of Ceruminous Obstruction.—Syring- ing with warm water is tlic only safe and effec- tive method of treatment. The syringing may at once be carried out if the mass be of a soft nature, but if hard and impacted, preliminary softening measures should be employed. The following solution is a suitable one :—R Sodii bicarb., acidi carbolici aa gr. vj., glycerini 5ij., aquse 3ij. M. After being warmed, half a teaspoonful is poured into the ear, and allowed to remain for ten minutes. This should be repeated twice during twenty-four hours before syringing. Owing to the swelling of the mass, by the absorption of the fluid, the deafness may, for the time, be aggravated, and the patient should be forewarned of this. In cases where we have to .deal with masses composed chiefly of exfoli- ated epidermis or epithelium, there may be considerable difficulty in removing them owing to their adhesiveness; and the cautious and repeated use of forceps, followed by syringing, may be necessary before dislodging and com- pletely removing them. A brass piston syringe, capable of containing 4 ounces, is generally the most efficient instru- ment. The nozzle should have a smooth ex- tremity, and should not exceed an inch and a half in length. The syringe should be furnished with a fixed ledge, or other contrivance, so as to prevent the slipping of the index and middle fingers during its use. A black vulcanite tray, with a concave edge to fit the irregular surface under the ear, is suitable for receiving the fluid as it issues from the ear; the concave edge should be pressed close to the skin, care being- taken to prevent the escaping fluid passing down between the tz-ay and the neck. Bubbles of air, mixed with the water, are very unpleasant to the patient, and are to be avoided by expelling the air from the syringe before beginning to syringe the ear. The water should have a pleasant warmth, not under 100° F. Cold liquid must on no account be used. During syringing, the point of the nozzle of the sjn-inge is placed just within the external orifice, in con- tact with the roof, while the auricle is pulled backwards and upwards with the left hand. A fair amount of force is necessary ; liut, with in- terruptions, a stronger stream can 1)0 employed than is safe in cases of purulent disease of the ear. The medical attendant must not entrust the syringe to the patient, or to an incompetent person. In some persons, syringing the ear, even when done with care, excites giddiness, and occasionally considerable jjahi. These effects are more likely to be produced if the tympanic membrane be already perforated, especially if, at the same time, excessive force be used. When wc have reason to suspect the existence of a pei-foration, we cannot be too careful in the use of the syringe, which, in such a case, must always be preceded by the antiseptic solvent already