CLIMATE AND ACCLIMATISATION 163 The mortality in tlie hot climates in new arrivals is chiefly' due to fever, heat apoplexy, and intestinal disease, but after a year or two's residence these diseases show a marked dimiiui- tion in amount. It must also be admitted that sanitary measures and a more careful mode of livinp: have greatly reduced the amount both of disease and mortality in Europeans in hot climates; thus the death-rate from disease in India among soldiers, excluding cholera, has decreased by two-thirds since the 'sixties, when the British soldier in Bengal died at the rate of some 60 per thousand. The death-rate of soldiers in Bengal in 1888, excluding cholera, was 10"54 per thousand. The mortality of the women, however, was somewhat higher. The death-rate of soldiers' children under one year was 189-64 in 1888, but it must be remembered that in India they do not suffer from the want, privation, and exposure to which children are subjected in the large towns of England, where the death-rate is very little lower; and in order to estimate these figures aright we must also remember that, as Davidson points out, " the diminished mortality is the result of withdraw- ing soldiers' children from the tropical influences, which proved so injurious, and rearing them in a temperate climate "; this is done by taking the children from the plains to establishments in the hills in the hot season. 2. Tlw Temperate Climate.—This climate is the healthiest upon our globe, as neither the extremes of heat nor cold are experienced. It may be said to be situated between latitudes 35° and 55°. The mean annual temperature varies from 50° to 60° F. (10°-16° C). In the temperate regions we have the four seasons — spring, summer, autumn, and winter, — and there are probably greater differences in local climates than elsewhere. It is in this area, too, that the influence of large towns and country districts must be taken into account, for, undoubtedly, the overcrowding which obtains in great cities does not tend either to longevity or to robust health, whilst infant mortality is very high. Great differences, however, obtain in different places, owing to the advance which sanitation has made. If we compare the death- rates of the various capitals of Europe we find marked differences ; for instance, the death-rate in London is one-third less than in St. Peters- burg or Moscow. Certainly the healthiest climates in the world are to be found in this temperate zone, and we possess far more accurate knowledge with regard to the diseases of this area than of any other. As will be seen in the article on " Health Resorts," they are practically all to be found in temperate regions. 3. The Cold Climate.—This climate, which covers the areas from about 55° E. (13° C.) to the pole, has been divided by some observers into three—the cold, having a mean annual temperature of from 40° to 50° F. (5°-10° C), the very cold, a mean annual temperature of 32° to 40° F. (0°-5° C), and the glacial, where the mercury is below freezing-point. In the northern hemisphere, northern Russia, Lapland, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, the north of Scotland, Spitzbergen and Nova Zembla, Canada, northern Asia, Siberia, and Karatschatka, as well as Greenland, lie within it. Although cold severely tries the lungs and kidneys, yet, according to M. Levy, the death- rate in this region is the lowest in the world. His estimate with regard to it may here be quoted :—• From 0°-20° latitude, 1 death takes place in 25 inhabitants ; from 20°-40°, 1 in 35-5; from 40°-60°, 1 in 43-2 ; from 60°-80°, 1 in 55. The inhabitants of this region are vigorous and muscular, their powers of digestion are remarkable, but their nervous systems are not highly developed. 4. The Insular Climate.—This climate is remarkable in many ways; the seasons are more equable, owing to the surrounding water. The air is constantly changed by the prevalence of winds, and is charged with abundance of moisture. 5. The Maritime Climate.—This much re- sembles the insular climate. It is warmer in winter and cooler in summer than the conti- nental climate, for, as a rule, the range of temperature increases from the coast towards tlie interior. The annual range of temperature on the coasts of the great oceans is diminished to about 20° F. ( - 7° C), whereas in the interior of a large continent, as, for instance, in the centre and north of Asia, the range may be from 60° to 100° F. (16°-38° C). 6. The Continental Climate. — This climate has a tendency to extremes of temperature — cold winters, hot summers, — and even at a short distance from the sea these changes obtain. 7. The Mountainous Climate.—Here we have a low barometric pressure due to altitude, the air being more and more rarefied as we ascend. The heat diminishes, but the mountains attract clouds and watery vapour; this notwithstand- ing, the climate is unusually healthy. The air is exceptionally pure. On first going to high altitudes, the respirations and pulse are accelerated, and the amount of carbonic acid and water exhaled by the lungs is increased, but after a residence of from one to four weeks, the pulse falls to normal, the respiration, how- ever, continuing fuller than it was on the plains. A consideration of the ocean climate will fall more naturally under the heading of " Health Resorts," but it may be said to be essentially characterised by warmth, equabilit}', and ex- cessive moisture. Individual Factors.—Considering now more in detail, but yet briefly, the various factors which are summed up in the comprehensive