450 DYSENTERY malarial fever in which ipecacuanha was viseless, but which yielded to perchloride of iron in large doses. This observation should be borne in mind. In the form of dysentery in which the caecum is chiefly involved, and which is often complicated with a severe type of malarial fever, the great prosti'ation conti'a-indicates the use of ipecacuanha. Quinine and small purgative doses of castor oil, with 20 to 30 minims of oil of turpentine, have seemed to me useful in this form of the disease. When complicated with scorbutus, the patient should be put on milk diet. A free use of lime or lemon juice is indicated. Grapes, oi'anges, or pomegranates may be given when lemons cannot be procured. Bael fruit given in the form of sherbet is recommended by Maclean. Solution of the pcrnitrate of iron, or oil of turpentine, 15 to 20 minims in almond emulsion, are the best means of checking the hjemorrhage in this form of the disease. Pain and swelling of the joints are to be treated by local applications of opium and belladonna, the affected joint M'rapped in cotton- wool and swathed with flannel. In severe haemorrhage arising from erosion of a large vessel, indicated by a copious discharge of clotted blood, astringent injections may be of iise if the seat of the lesion is ia the rectum or sigmoid flexure, otherwise our chief reliance must be placed in hypodermic injections of ergotin. The full dose of 10 minims of the pharmacopoeial preparation should be employed. In epidemic gangrenous rectitis injections of lemon juice, suggested by native methods of cure, should be tried, the bowels at the same time being acted on by gentle purgatives. The medicines chiefly employed in the treat- ment of amoebic dysentery are calomel, salol, and quinine given by the mouth, and solutions of quinine, corrosive sublimate, and nitrate of silver in enemata. As an injection quinine is used of a strength of 1-1000 or 1-500 ; corrosive sublimate 1-5000, and nitrate of silver, 30 grains to a quart. One or two pints of these solutions are to be injected three or four times daily. The results hitherto obtained from these remedies have been somewhat disappointing. Chronic Dysentery.—A patient suff'ering from chronic dysentery contracted in the tropics should Vje invalided home without delay. If the patient's return falls in winter, it is better, if his circumstances permit, that he should pass a month or two on the Riviera. In any case, great care should be taken as regards clothing. Flannel underclothing and the use of an abdominal belt should be insisted upon. The disease is one which gives rise to great anaemia and debility; the diet, therefore, should be nourishing and easily digested. During the periods of quiescence meat should be allowed. Graves remarks in one of his lectures that cases of chronic dysentery he had met with, " which had obstinately resisted the most varied remedies assiduously employed, got well after a liberal allowance of meat was given ; and the first thing I should do," he says, " when called upon to treat a case of dysentery of long stand- ing, would be to put my patient on a full meat diet." During the acute or subacute exacerba- tions the patient should be put upon the diet recommended for the acute disease. Milk and light farinaceous foods generally answer best during these exacerbations. Rest in bed should only be enjoined during an exacerbation. Exercise, short of fatigue, is beneficial. When the patient is unable to walk, carriage exercise should be taken. The chances of recovery depend largely upon attention to these details. Acute and subacute intercurrent attacks are to be treated on the general principles applicable to the acute disease. Instead of the powder of ipecacuanha, an infusion of 100 grains each of ipecacuanha root and simaruba bark in ten ounces of water, given in ounce doses three or four times a day, is to be preferred. When the acute symptoms abate and the stools become diarrhocal the dose is to be reduced, and a few drops of laudanum added. Constipation is to be obviated by the gentlest laxatives. When, on the other hand, looseness is troublesome, Dover's powder, salicylate of bismuth, and bael fruit are the most trustworthy remedies. In- jections of nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper are of value when no acute symptoms are present, especially if chronic ulcers are present in the lower part of the bowel. A wet compress to the abdomen is often useful when the bowel is congested or ulcerated. Emollient enemata and gentle purgatives will be required when cicatricial contractions impede the evacua- tion of the Ijowel. Dysgenesis.—Any morbid state of the generative organs or reproductive powers, or, specially, hybridity in animals in which the ofl^jpring are sterile among themselves, but possibly fertile with individuals of the original races. Dysg'eusia.. — Imperfect or depraved taste. ;S'ee Hysteria (^Sensory Disorders); Pregnancy, Afb^ections and Complications {Digestive and Sympathetic Disturbances). DysidrOSiS.—Excessive secretion by the sudoriparous glands and its effects on the skin ; cheiropompholyx. See Skin, Bacteriology of {Cheiropompholyx or Dysidrosis). Dyskinesia,.—Difficulty or impairment of walking. See Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Pelvic Articulations). DyskyesiS. — Morbid or complicated pregnancy, or, specially, exti'a-uterine gestation.