DIAPHRAGMATALGIA 345 DIAPHRACxMALGIA OR Diaphrag^maigfia or Diaphrag:- matalgfia. — Xuunilgic pain ill thu dia- plirap;m. Diaph ragfmat it is. — rnflamination of the diaphragm. Diaph ragrmatocele. — Diaphrag matic hernia. Diaphthora.— Pntrefaetion, especially intra-ulerine putrefaction following fostal death. DiaphySiS.—The body or shaft of a long bone, forming from the primary ossific centre. See Physiology, Tlssues [Bone, EpU'hysis and Diaphysis). Diarrhoea. Etiolo(;y ...... 345 Varieties ...... 346 Diagnosis of Cause .... 346 Principles of Treatment . . . 347 See Air, Examination of (Ground Air); Astringents ; Brain, Affections of Blood- Vessels {Cerebral Aiurmia,, Causes); Children, Development of (Spnjytoms of Teething); Cholera, Epidemic ; Cholera Nostras ; Colon, Diseases op ; Constipation ; Enemata ; Gastro- intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Diarrhoea, Simple, Choleraic, etc.); Hysteria {Dismxlers of Digestive Organs, Faroxysmal Diarrhoea); Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis, Ulcers, Lardaceous Disease, Malignant Disease); Larda- ceous Degeneration ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Alimentar//, Diarrhoea); Malingering {Digestive Sijstein, Diarrhaa); Measles {Cotirse); Menstruation and its Disorders {Vicarious); Meteorology {Seasonal Jiecurrenre of Diarrha^nl Affections); Mesenteric Glands {Tuberculosis, Clinical Features); Muscles, Diseases of {Trichiniasis) ; Myiasis {Intestinal); Nephritis {Acute, Chronic); Pellagra ; Pejiphigus {Acute, Malignant); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis {Sijmjytoms, Defctcation, Diarrhwa); Pneumonia, Clinical {Childhood) ; Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Rectum, Diseases of {Impaction (f Faeces); RiiEUJiATisM IN Children ; Sprue {Hill Diarrhcea); Tabes Dorsalis {Intestinal Crises); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Fj-ophfhalmic Goitre, Digestive System); Typhoid Fever {Symptoms) ; Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning) ; Ur.kmia {Digestive System); Water {Water roisoning, Diarrhwa). Definition.—The term diarrhani, which means literally "a running through," is applied to the frequent dischai-ge of loose evacuations from the bowels. The too frequent passage of motions of normal consistence is not properly spoken of as diarriicca. Diarrhoea may be due to increased peristalsis or increased intestinal secretion, or both. Although diarrhoea is, strictly speaking, a symjitom only, there are many conditions wlicre it is practically of sole importance, in which therefore it may legitimately be regarded as the disease. Etiology. — Amongst etiological factors common to ditl'erent forms of diarrhani age is of considerable importance; for although diar- rhoea may occur at any age, it is most common and much more fatal at the extremes of life. Children under the age of two years are very liable to diarrhoea (to the extent of fully 80 per cent of fatal cases), and in old persons a severe diarrhoea often occurs as a terminal complication in chronic wasting diseases. The temperature of the atmosphere is also of importance. K sudden marked fall in the temperature is apt to be attended by a number of cases of diarrha^i ; while during the hot months of the year children suffer severely, and the mortality from diarrhoeal diseases varies almost exactly with the mean temperature. While diarrhoea has not been shown to vary with the density of the population, overcroviding, want of cleanliness, and especiallj' contamination of the food {milh) sup2)ly must be regarded as important etiological factors. Sympto.ais.—The passage of loose alvine evacuations with the accompanying discomfort may be the sole symptom present. More commonly gastric disturbance, pain, flatulence, and other symjDtoms are present as well. Character o/' tlie Stools.—The number of the evacuations varies greath'. There may Ije only two or three in the day, the patient feeling quite well in the intervals; or there may be four, five, or more every hour, and the feeling of discomfort and desire for a passage may be constant. The amount of the evacuations also varies within wide limits, from a comparatively trifling discharge to so copious a flux as to rapidly drain the tissues of the body. The motions may be (piite liquid and even watery, or may bo of the consistence of thick gruel. They may contain scybalous masses resulting from preceding constipation. J<'luid motions are often described as resembling "jx'a-soup" (typhoid fever); "rice water" (cholera); "scrajDings of meat" (dysentery); "frog- spawn" or "boiled sago" (dysentery with copious mucous discharge). In " lienteric" diarrhava food taken shortlj^ before is passed unchanged. The colour of the motions varies according to tiic amount of bile present, and also with the nature of the food. Conunonly they arc light or dark brown or clay-coloured. They may be l)lack or tarry from the pi-eseuce of blood, or may be coloured by various drugs (bismuth, iron, "luematoxylin, etc.). The green colour so common in the diarriia?as of children may be due to biliverdin or to chi'omogenic bacteria (the green bacillus of le Sage). In some cases the evacuations have an extra- ordinarily offensive otlour due to proteid de- composition. A cadaveric odour may develop