CHEST, CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF THE 87 when there is thickening of the pleura, cftu- sion into the pleura, cedema of the chest-wall, etc. Under certain conditions the whispered voice is well heard, as if spoken into the end of the stethoscope. This is known as ivhispering pec- toriloquy (see article " Lungs (Phthisis) "). Percussion of Heart.—Turning next to the pe7-cussi.on of the heart, two areas of dulness are recognised : the superficial or area of absolute dulness, the deep or area of relative dulness. The superficial cardiac dulness corresponds to that layer of the heart which lies uncovered ])y lung, having a truncated pyramidal shape, with its right border along the left border of the sternum, its upper boundary at the fourth costal cartilage, its left border about the para- sternal line. The size of the area varies with the state of expansion of the lung. In enlarge- ment of the heart it is increased, in emphysema it is diminished or absent, the over-expanded lung occupying the area. The area of Jee^j cardiac dulness is of much greater importance to the clinician. Using strong percussion, per- cussing from without inwards along the third and fourth right interspaces, the right border of the heart is found about two inches to the right of the mid-sternal line. The left border is next mapped out, percussing along the interspaces from without inwards, beginning outside the mammary line, where a clear thoracic percussion sound is obtainable. By marking in each inter- space when the relative dulness is first reached and joining the points, the position of the left border of the heart can be obtained. In health it is usually in the mammary line, that is about 3| inches to the left of the mid-sternal line at the level of the fourth interspace. In percuss- ing the deep cardiac dulness, much assistance will be got by taking into consideration the sense of resistance when carrying out the per- cussion. The cardiac dulness is found to be increased in cases of dilatation and hypertrophy and in dilatation. In hypertrophy and dilata- tion of the left side the increase in the ai'ea is downwards and outwards ; in hypertrophy and dilatation of the right side the increased dulness is more in the transverse direction. In effusion into the pericardium the dulness takes the shape of the pericardial sac; it is somewhat pear- shaped, the stalk of the pear being upwards. It is sometimes, as in emphysema, impossible to map out the cardiac dulness with certainty. A good deal, however, will depend Tipon the skill of the observer. Accurate percussion of the heart requires much practice. Auscultation.—Taking next the auscultation of the heart, the different cai-diac areas are listened at in turn, beginning, as a rule, with the mitral, a!Kl the character of the sounds is noted. Are the soxmds healthy ? If not healthy, is the alteration quantitative 1 Are the sounds louder or fainter than in health 1 or is the alteration qualitative? Is there a murmur present? Quantitative ;dterations may be various; the first sounds may be short, shai-p, and accentu- ated, as in dilatation; it may be doubled, a somewhat rare condition; it may be prolonged and of grave tone, as in the hypertrophy and dilatation of chronic kidney disease. The second sound may be loud and accentuated at either area; it may be faint, or it may be doubled. Is the alteration in the sounds qualitative? Is a murmur present ? If so, time the murnuir in the cardiac cycle—systolic, diastolic, or pre- systolic (auriculo-systolic); ascertain its point of differential maximum intensity; its somid character, duration, and the direction of propa- gation. Extra Cardiac Areas.—Having auscultated the heart, the extra cardiac areas are noticed, the upper part of the sternum, the roots of the neck, and the epigastric region. Palpate the upper part of the sternum for any pulsation or thrill, and percuss to ascertain if there is any increased impairment of the per- cussion sound, as in aneurism or dilatation of the aorta. Notice the root of the neck for any swelling, undue pulsation, and for venoiis pulsa- tion, as in tricuspid regurgitation. The epigas- tric region may show pulsation, tumour, etc., which may have important bearing upon the condition of the heart. In many cases the simple clinical examination as sketched is insufficient. Extra auscultation will frequently give valu- able information. Note the cough, its character, frequency, etc. Note the presence or absence of expectoration, its amount, reaction, appearance, naked-eye and microscopic, etc. In cases where effusion into the pleura is suspected, or where the nature of an existing effusion is in doubt, it is often advisable to ex- plore with the needle of an exploring syringe or aspirator. In cardiac cases useful information may be got from the sphygmograph, cardiograph, sphyg- momanometer, or sphygmometer. The Kdntgen rays have been applied to the diagnosis of respiratory and cardiac disease, but so far there are a mmiber of difficulties in their application. Controlling evidence is of much importance in many diseases of the chest. Examination of the larynx is of the greatest importance in cases of early phthisis, suspected aneurism. The condition of tiie blood, the red corpuscles, the leucocytes, and the hemoglobin are all of importance in cardiac and respiratory disease. Thus the presence of anrcmia may account for a cardiac nnirnuu", which otherwise must haA'e been considered organic; the presence of a leucocytosis may give confirmatory evidence of a deep-seated patch of pneumonia.