EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC NON-SUPPURATIVE DISEASE 510 forwards and backwards fi'om the short process to the periphery are marked, the latter especi- ally. The triangular light reflection from the tip of the handle of the malleus is interrupted, shortened, or absent, depending upon the amount of depression. The structures in the middle ear and the inner wall may be clearly visible. In the posterior and superior segment, the descending process of the incus with the stapedius muscle running backwards from close to its tip, the chorda tympani nerve running from behind upwards and forwards across the descending process of the incus, may be seen. The smooth curve of the promontory in the inferior segment is well marked, and below and behind it the round window appears as a dark patch. On looking at the naso-pharynx a catarrhal condition of the lining membrane may be seen, it being red and swollen with exuda- tion lying on its surface. Sometimes this can be seen involving the lips and orifice of the Eustachian tube ; and rarely a plug of exuda- tion may be seen lying in the orifice. Prognosis.—In the early stages this is very good; in the later it will depend on the amount of constriction produced, and whether the tym- panum is also involved. Diagnosis. — Simple chronic Eustachian catarrh will be diagnosed by the marked im- provement of hearing by inflation and the absence of permanent changes in the membrane. The general methods of diagnosing middle from internal ear affections are described on page 459. Treatment.—Any causes in the nose or naso- pharynx must be removed, and treatment directed to improving the patient's general condition adopted, such as change of air and tonics. In the early stages a single inflation may be all that is necessary to open a tube which has been perhaps blocked by a plug of mucus, or the sides of which have stuck together. If the trouble has extended some distance up the tube, inflation will have to be repeated, the intervals between the proceed- ing depending on the effect produced and the length of time improvement in hearing remains. In the later stages, when contraction appears to become a definite feature, especially if the cartilaginous portion is affected, injections of alkaline solution or of paroleine, or the passage of a bougie through the Eustachian catheter, may be necessary. Combined with this treat- ment the chloride of ammonium vapour, ob- tained by means of Godfrey's or Basdon's inhaler, drawn into the mouth and blown through the nose for ten minutes night and morning with a few auto-inflations into the middle ear by means of Valsalva's method when the mouth and nose are full of vapour, is often of great use. An alkaline and astringent solution gently syringed down the nose after the inhaler is often useful. In the last stage it will usually be found that further changes in the upper middle ear tract have occurred either by ex- tension of the catarrh, or by changes produced by the variation in pressure. The treatment in these cases will be considered later. A useful point, when difficulty of opening the Eustachian tube by ordinary inflation is experienced, is to place a few drops of pure chloroform into the bag before inflation. (Jj) Chronic Hypertrophic Catarrh in the whole Middle Ear Tract. — Symptoms and Signs.—These will depend on how far the disease has progressed. 1. Stage of Chronic Engorgement of Vessels tvith Exudation.—Although a certain amount of exudation from the surface is present in all cases, yet in some it forms a very prominent clinical feature demanding special description. It must be stated that cases of this variety are undoubtedly rare in Great Britain. It is im- possible to say what determines this excess of exudation; undoubtedly in some cases the excess is more apparent than real, being due to the collection of exudation in the tympanum owing to coexisting Eustachian obstruction. The character of the exudation varies, being serous, sero-mucoid, or mucoid ; and here also it is impossible to say definitely on what the varying characters of the exudation depend. The history of these cases in which exuda- tion is marJced usually is that, after an acute catari'h of the naso-phaiynx, deafness in one or both ears persists. The exudation form may be present on the one side, with simple Eustachian obstruction on the other. There is a feeling of fulness in the ear, stopping short of actual pain, and a sensation of something moving, especially if the exudation is serous, with occa- sional bubbling, especially after blowing the nose. Improvement in hearing occurs tem- porarily, but is only of short duration, and may vary with the position of the head. The patient may hear bubbles bursting, especially after inflation. Rushing and occasionally pulsating tinnitus is present. The head on the affected side feels heavy, and numbness of the auricle and surrounding parts is experienced. The patient's own voice sounds unusually loud. Inability to do mental work is often complained of ; and sleep may be disturbed, owing to the bubbling and cracking which goes on in the ear. When the mucoid element predominates bubbling and variations on posture are not marked. Sometimes, especially in old people, the mem- brane may rupture on blowing the nose or on inflation, producing perhaps a suppurative process resulting from septic infection from the meatus. In infancy and early childhood rupture seems readily to take place in the early stages. On examination the appearance of the mem-