13 BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS layer of .stratified ciliated epitholiuiu, surrounded by the muscularis and peribronchial connective tissue. If one of the bronchioles be followed towards its termination, it is found that just before it ends in the inftnidibuluni the columnar ciliated epithelium is replaced by a sin<j:le layer of cubical epithelium, a thin fibrous tissue in- vestment being still present, and finally when the air-vesicle is reached this epithelial layer comes to be composed of a very thin layer of flat, S(iuamous, endothelial-like cells, while the muscular coat is lost. The thinness and weakness of the walls of the smallest bronchi, and the feeljle expulsive power of their muscular coat, together with the narrow - ness of the lumen of the tube, and especially the complete absence of ciliated epithelium, and of any nniscular coat as they approach the in- fundibula, explain the serious natxu-e of a ca])il- lary bronchitis and the danger resulting from secretions accxmiulating in the smallest tubes. I. Acu'i'E Bronchitis in Adults Etiology.—AVe may divide the causes of acute bronchitis as follow s :— (a) Prediftposituj.—No age is exempt, Init it is especially liable to attack the very old or the very young, and to assume a serious form in these subjects. Males and females are equally liable to suft'er. Sedentary life and luxurious habits, and living much indoors and in vitiated atmosphere, heart-disease, especially those forms which result in pulmonary congestion, and gout, diabetes, rickets, dyspepsia and constipation, spinal curvature, dusty occupations, and a cold and changeable climate, all predispose to bron- chitis. But heredity and a certain individual susceptibility to catarrhal affections undoubtedly largely influence the occurrence of attacks, and, above all, the pre-existence of various pulmonary affections and the fact of previous attacks of bronchitis having taken place. (b) Exciting causes. 1. Expo.sure to cold ; " catching cold." 2. Traumatic ; the inhalation of steam; swallowing hot water or irritating fluids. 3. Chemical irritants, e.ff. the inhalation of irritating gases or vapours such as chlorine or ammonia, sulphurous or nitrous acid, ether, iodine, bromine, etc. 4. Toxfcmia, e.;/. in Bright's disease, gout, rheumatism. 5. Vasomotor, e.rj. asthma. 6. Infective, e.;/. typhoid, typhus, measles, scarlatina, smallpox, malaria, wliooping-cough. Acute bronchitis is generally associated with exposure to cold, and it is certainly influenced by climatic conditions. But although a so- called chill is undoubtedly a very common exciting cause of bronchitis, it is equally certain that in many cases the real cause of the attack is by no means so simple. Indeed we find that it is not those wdiose daily life constantly exposes them to cold, or even rapid changes of tempera- ture, that are most prone to attacks of bron- chitis : " persons who live an out-of-door life are usually less sul)ject to the disease than those who follow sedentary occupation" (Osier). Certain it is that colds are not usually caught in pure air, at sea for instance, or in the higher Alps in winter, although exposure to cold is of necessity frequent. Acute inflammatory attacks of the upper air-passages are most frequently found in those who habitually breathe vitiated air, or who have attended over-crowded, ill- ventilated places of meeting, and are then exposed to cold, or who are directly infectt'd by some person sufl'ering from ;i cold in the head. Not only do these "catarrhs" confer temporary immunity, but recent investigations, such as those of W. H. Bark, have shown that staphy- lococci and streptococci, which are always present in the healthy mouth, increase greatly in niunber and virulence in dainp weather and in winter months, and are then capable of setting up acute pharyngitis if applied t(.) the throat. These ai'e just the conditions which are particularly prone to lead to bronchitis, and we thus seem to have an explanation of its frcipient occurrence in the changeable weather of early spring and late autumn, and of its origin in a "cold on the chest." Sputum normally contains a considerable number of different varieties of micro-organ- isms, some of wdiich are Ijest studied on stained films, whilst otliers grow well on the ordinary media. Amongst the most common of these organisms are the streptococcus brevis and other varieties, staphylococcus albus, citreus, and aureus, spirillum sputugenum, leptothrix, and varieties of chromogenic bacteria, bacilli and sarcina'. AVhilst any one of these nvAj be found in the sputa of bronchitis and broncho- pneumonia, it will commonly be found that one or more organisms are pi'esent in overwhelming majority, so that prepared films or cultures may show almost a pure culture of one particular variety. Pansini found in normal air-passages several different streptococci, bacilli, micrococci sarcinse. Queyrat describes a specific organism, a micrococcus of " tracheo-lironchitis." Grun describes a sjDecific bacillus of bronchitis, hut neither of these observations has been substan- tiated. Nctter gives the pneumococcus as the caiise of capillary bronchitis and broncho-pneu- monia in 15"85 per cent of cases. Osier makes the statement that acute bron- chitis is probably a microbic affection, and Gee, in referring to the effect of dust in certain occupations in causing bronchitis, states that the dust of unclean and ill-ventilated rooms will be very likely to contain morbific microbes, and that the irritation of the air-passages set up by inanimated dust will favour the operations of the many bacteria which are potent to cause bron- chitis. He believes that our mouths, noses, and