EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUELS 503 In such cases careful examination of the dis- charge should be made for bacilli. Should they, however, not be foiuid in the discharges from the middle ear, any accompanying granulation tissue should be removed and examined. Occa- sionally they may be discovered in this way. Failing this, portions of diseased tissue from the middle ear may be removed and inoculated into guinea-pigs or rabbits. If such experiments be conducted with due precautions to avoid acci- dental contamination, and if tuberculous disease be set up in the animal so inoculated, the pre- sumption is that the material employed is tuberculous. Tuberculous disease of the middle car is frequently associated with similar disease within the mastoid process. In many such cases where the mastoid has been opened for the purposes of treatment, a pultaceous-looking mass will be found filling up the cells, but this material is pi'actically value- less for experimental purposes, consisting as it does of broken-down tissue, inspissated purulent debris, and epithelial cells. When, however, it has been removed by means of a spoon and the underlying bone exposed, it will be seen where the disease is making progress, and from whence a scraping of bone should be taken. In my experiments I have inserted a fragment of tissue obtained as above described into a guinea-pig's hind leg, just about the knee-joint, all hair having previously been removed by singeing with a platinum knife. A small pocket is now made with a sterilised needle, and the tissue carefully inserted. In a few weeks' time, should the tissue inoculated be tuberculous, the inguinal glands will be found enlarged, and as time goes on the tuberculous virus will be found to have spread over the animal's body, the glands and viscei'a being attacked in the follow- ing order, according to the results obtained by Professor Dele]>ine :— Dvrinfj the gerond vcelc after inoculation the lymphatic ganglia upon the same side of the body below the diaphragm and the spleen will be found enlarged. During the tliird veek, the liver, the medias- tinal, and the bronchial ganglia. During the fourth iveelc, the lungs, the cervi- cal and the axillary ganglia. After the fotirth week some of the lymphatic ganglia of tlie opposite side of the body below the diaphragm become affected, but this takes place extremely slowly, and the suV)hnnbar and popliteal glands escape for a considerable time. Alicroscopic sections made from these glands, and stained for bacilli, will frequently be found to reveal their presence. In this way a definite diagnosis of the actual character of the imdcrlying lesion can be made, and the value of the knowledge thus obtained is naturally immense, both as regards prognosis and treatment. The course of such tubei'culous lesions is only too often a downward one, despite the most elaborate and painstaking treatment. The practical difficulties encountered in removing tuberculous deposits within bone are immense, and in no region of the body are these difficulties greater than when tubercle attacks the temporal bone, for reasons which must be obvious to all. The complications which have to be feared are: (1) meningitis, (2) tuberculous enteritis, (3) general marasmus. The treatment of such cases must be con- sidered from two points of view, according as it is non-operative or operative. Cases will be met with, especially in infants, where any operative interference will from tlie first be seen to l)e hopeless. Such are the cases wiiere marked debility and emaciation are present, where advanced facial paralysis and masses of enlarged glands have been early symptoms, and where the dis- charge is abundant, foitid, and frequently blood- stained. In such cases palliative measures, anti- septic treatment, and, if possible, residence at the seaside, are indicated, but I am bound to say that in the majority of such patients whose cases I have followed an early death has been the usual history. The prognosis in such cases I Ijelieve to be essentially bad. In other cases, however, where the present condition of the patient is good (and often enough it is so), and where the tuberculous lesion may be regarded as primary and local, much can be done by suitable operative inter- ference. It is almost superfluous to say that the first and the main essential is to provide free drainage. This implies opening and cleans- ing the mastoid cells, and it is a remarkable fact how often in such cases, without any external and objective sign or indication, the mastoid cortex will be found extensively perforated, and a pultaceous mass immediately exposed to view. Under good illumination a very careful toilet of the part should be eflected, and this can gener- ally best be done by means of a sharp spoon. All softened and carious bone must be scraped away, and as smooth a cavity left as possible, even if this necessitates laying bare the dura, and walls of the lateral sinus. The cavity thus ob- tained should be allowed to granulate from the bottom, and care must be taken to stimulate any sluggish area by means of applications of chloride of zinc, nitrate of silver, etc. P^re- quently more than one scraping is necessary as fresh foci of disease appear. In one particular case which came under \\\\ treatment some years ago, and where the cause was proved to ; have been feeding with milk from a tulterculous cow, five separate operations had to be under- taken before the morbid process was eradicated, which, however, it finally was, and the child has ! now grown up a healthy and sturdy boy. In very many of the cases the middle ear has been I so extensively destroyed that its function as an