490 EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC SUPPURATION AND SEQUEL.E ear disease, both acute and chronic, is more frequently met with in children than in adults, the proportion being 70 to 30. Various factors are responsible for this. In the first place the exanthemata, which are prolific sources of ear trouble, are more commonly met with in children, as are also affections of the lymphoid structui'es of the upper respiratory tract, e.g. enlarged tonsils, naso - pharyngeal adenoids. Dentition, congenital syphilis, and catarrhal affections are also responsible for the production of otitis media in many infants and young children. Tuberculous disease of the middle ear and adjoining mastoid cells is also comparatively common, especially amongst the children of the poorer classes of our large cities. Purulent disease is also at times met with in the middle ears of new-born infants, and may be due to an abnormal metamorpliosis of the em- bryonic mucous tissue which exists normally, or to the passage into the middle ear of liquor amnii during forced attempts at respiration. In children acute attacks of middle ear sup- puration are at times ushered in by symptoms of great gravity. In fact, until a discharge from the middle ear takes place such cases are fre- quently diagnosed as inflammation of the mem- branes of the brain. The practical difiiculties encountered in successfully treating acute in- flammatory affections of the middle ear in childhood probably go far to explain why so many cases pass into the chronic stage. Predisposing Causes.—Among the most im- portant predisposing causes may be mentioned hereditary tendency, the possession of the so- called strumous, tuberculous, or syphilitic diathesis, the presence of naso - pharyngeal disease, especially post-nasal adenoid vegetations, and the existence of some pre-existing middle ear affection which, having become latent, is prone to be stirred up to renewed activity under the influence of certain unfavourable circumstances. Segments of the Middle Ear usually involved. —Chronic purulent disease most usually attacks the mucosa lining the Eustachian tube, and the atrium of the middle ear. In certain cases it may attack the mucous membrane of the recessus epitympanicus (attic), and remain localised in this portion of the middle ear for varying periods. In the later stages of chronic purulent otitis media involvement of the mucosa lining the mastoid antrum and the adjoining mastoid cells may take place. Certain anatomical peculiarities in the middle ears of young children deserve consideration on account of their practical and clinical im- portance. Thus the membrana tympani occupies a much more horizontal position than it does in adults, and is also relatively thicker and larger. Hence in the examination of the middle ear of a child the auricle should bedrawndownwards and somewhat forwards, in the adult upwards and backwards. The Eustachian tube in the yoimg child is shorter, of somewhat larger calibre, and more horizontally situated than in the adult, and hence acts as a somewhat better drain, and is more easily inflated. The mucosa lining the middle ear is frequently in intimate association with the dura bj' means of a process of fibrous tissue running through the unossified squamo- petrosal fissure. The mastoid or tympanic antrum is, however, of large size, and is more siiperficially placed than in the adult. The lateral sinus in young children is separated from the mastoid cells by a bridge of bone which is relatively thicker than in the adult. Bacteriology of Chronic Suppurative In- flammation.—The role played by micro-oi'gan- isms in the production of chronic suppurative middle ear disease is a most important one. Whether micro-organisms are to be looked upon as the actual factors in the production of middle ear suppuration, or only as incidental to it, is at present a moot point, but that they play a prominent part, not only in the disease itself, but also in the production of its complications, is undoubted. Aerial contamination of the cavity of the middle ear may readily take place either by way of the Eustachian tube or exter- nal auditory meatus. Putrefactive bacilli are present in large numbers in foetid discharge from the middle ear, and are absent in non-fa3tid discharge, and it is a noticeable and important fact that many cases of what are primarily acute catarrhal inflammations of the tympanic mucosa become purulent only after perforation, and hence aerial contamination, has taken place. The principal organisms found in purulent discharge from the middle ear are :— (1) Staphylococcus pyogenes albus et aureus; (2) streptococcus pyogenes; (3) pneumococcus (Fraenkel); (4) pneumo-bacillus (Friedlander); (5) bacillus tuberculosis. Further remarks regarding the relative frequency and import- ance of these micro-organisms will be found on page 484. Other organisms, e.g. bacillus tenuis, bacillus pyocyaneus, staphylococcus cereus albus, etc., have also been discovered in discharge from the middle ear, but do not appear to have the same causal relation as those previously mentioned. Pathology.—In the initial stages of acute suppurative middle ear catarrh the characteristic features are distension of the tympanic blood- vessels with outpouring of secretion, and sub- sequent extravasation of leucocytes, partly into the cavity of the middle ear, and partly into the substance of its mucous membrane. In mild cases large quantities of mucus are exuded into the middle ear. In children the exudation may be mainly serous fluid. As the inflammatory process becomes chronic this small round-celled infiltration results in the