340 DIAPHRAGM believed to arise from rheumatism, though this must be a rare occurrence. It is seen more commonly in diphtheria, in alcoholic neuritis, and in beri-beri, and the toxin of influenza may produce like effects. The phrenic nerves may be involved in cases of lead - poisoning; and in progi'essive muscular atrophy, amyotrophic sclerosis, and bulbar paralysis, the motor cells of the phrenic nerves are sometimes affected and the diaphragm in this way paralysed. In cases in which the pleural or the peritoneal surfaces covering the diaphi-agm are inflamed, a certain degree of paralysis results. To some extent the defective movement of the diaphragm in these cases is no doubt voluntary, and owing to the pain which movement occasions, it is probably also in part reflex. But it may be due in some measure to the inflammatory process penetrating from the serous covering to the substance of the diaphragm, and there involving the small nerve branches in such a way as to cause paralysis. Symptoms. — When both sides of the dia- phragm are paralysed there is no longer to be ■observed the normal protrusion of the epigas- trium on inspiration, indeed there is sometimes a sinking in in that region. During expiration, on the other hand, the epigastrium protrudes. When only one phrenic nerve is paralysed these signs are unilateral. So long as the patient lies perfectly still there is little or no dyspnoea, though the rate of breathing is somevvhat accelerated. But on the least exertion dyspnoea at once shows itself. Litten has recently pointed out that the normal movements of the diaphragm may be readily recognised, especially in men, if the thorax be carefully watched about the sixth intercostal space. As the diaphragm separates itself from the thoracic wall a shadow moves downwards in a wave-like fashion over two or three interspaces, and again returns during expiration. To recognise this phenomenon the patient should be placed in a recumbent posture with the feet towards a good light. The observer should stand about three feet off with his back to the light. This sign might be of great im- portance in investigating doubtful cases. Save in hysterical cases diaphragmatic para- lysis is always of grave import, because any pulmonary complication, even of a light nature, is thereby rendered dangerous. The treatment is that of the malady in the course of which the diaphragmatic paralysis has appeared. Blisters or hot applications over the course of the phrenic nerve in the neck are said to do good. Occasionally stimulation of these nerves by means of the faradic or of the galvanic current may be beneficial. Spasm of the diaphragm may take either the tonic or the clonic form. Of these the latter is the more common. Tonic spasm, of the diaphragm occurs in bronchial asthma. The centripetal impulse passing up the vagus to the respiratory centre is reflected down the phrenic nerve, and so causes a tonic contraction of the diaphragm, a condition clinically recognisable by lowering of the inferior borders of the lungs. Apart from that occurring in asthma, tonic spasm of the diaphragm is an exceedingly rare affection. It has been known to accompany rheumatism, and to occur in cases of tetanus and tetany. When the diaphragm passes into tonic contraction the symptoms are very striking. The lower thorax expands, the epigastrium protrudes, the liver is pressed down, and the lung border is lowered. Along with these signs there develops an extreme and dangerous dyspnoea. To counteract the descent of the diaphragm the abdominal muscles contract powerfully; and to diminish the dys- pnoea the extraordinary muscles of respiration come into vigorous action. The patient also complains of severe pain round the thorax at the level of the diaphragmatic attachment. The condition is a serious one, and may prove fatal. The treatment must, therefore, be energetic and rapidly carried out. Some relief may be obtained by means of fomentations and sinapisms, and in a hot bath the spasm may relax. Duchenne advised the use of the faradic brush over the skin in the neighbourhood of the diaphragm. The administration of the nitrates, of chloroform, or of a morphia injection may be rapidly beneficial. Clonic contraction of the diaphragm, com- monly known as hiccough, is much more common than tonic spasm. The contractions, which are usually fairly regular, vary much in rate, being sometimes as slow as four or five in the minute, and sometimes as frequent as one hundred. The spasm is not usually limited to the diaphragm. The glottis is also narrowed and the nares move. Such constantly recurring diaphragmatic con- traction has of necessity a considerable effect on respiration. If the rate of the hiccough is rapid, there may be considerable dyspnoea, and even the act of swallowing may be interfered with. The patient is shaken by each contraction, there is considerable pain along the diaphragmatic attachment, and much exhaustion may result. If the attack be prolonged—and some last for weeks—the condition may prove very serious. Hiccough is due to irritation of the respiratory centres, and this irritation may be periphei'al or central. The peripjheral causes, which are the commoner, include such sources of irritation in the alimentary tract as are produced by stricture of the oesophagus, by overloading of the stomach, by gastric or intestinal affections, by appendicitis, by peritonitis, and by affections of the liver. Disease of the bladder, of the uterus, or of the prostate may, in the same reflex way, induce hiccough. Irritation of the pleura or of the pericardium may act in a similar fashion. Cen- tral causes are seen in cases arising from cerebral