115 CHOLAGOGUES action of the upper part of the small intestine, and so carrying the bile down below the level of the bowel where reabsorption occurs; such medicines ought to be followed by a saline. See Pharmacology, and under names of various drugs. Cholang^iOStomy. — Formation of a gall-bladder fistula. Chola.ng'iOtomy. — Incision of a bile duct (intrahepatic) for the removal of gall-stones. Cholctng'itiS.—Inflammation of the bile ducts, ('.'/. due to gall-stone in the common duct. See Gall - Bladder and Bile Ducts, Dlseases (Cholelithiasis, Cholangitis); Liver, Diseases (Hypertrophic Biliary Cirrhosis); Liver, Diseases (Hepatic Ihihercvlosls); Liver (Tropical Abscess, Diagnosis) ; Pancreas, Diseases (Malignant Disease). Chole-.—In compound words chole- (from XoA'/y, bile) signifies to the hde. In addi- tion to the words specially dealt with below, the following may be named : cholecchysis (discharge of bile), cholecyst (the gall-bladder), cholecystec- tasis (dilatation of the gall-bladder), choledochiti.s (inflammation of the common bile duct or ductus communis choledochus), choledochostoniy (the pi'oduction of a fistula of the common liile duct), choleic acid (taurocholic acid), etc. Cholecystectomy.—The removal of the gall-bladder, in whole or in part. *See (Jall- Bladder AND Bile Ducts, Diseases (TwrnoMns of Gall-Bladder, Trea tment). CholecystendysiS.—The excision of a gall-stone from the galbbladdcr, followed by closure (by sutures) of the opening in the gall- bladder, and by the anchoring of the bladder to the abdominal incision, which is also closed. Cholecystenterostomy. — The estal)lishmunt of an artificial coumiunication lictwcon the gall-bladder and the intestine (e.g. the duodenum) in the treatment of gall-stones in the common duct. See Gall-Bladder and liiLB Ducts, Diseases (Cholelithiasis, Treatment; Tumours of the Gall-Bladder, Treatment). Cholecystitis. — Inflammation of the gall - bladder. See Gall - Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases (Cholecystitis). Choi ecy St OSt O m y. —The making of an opening into the gall-bladder and the bringing of it into an opening in the abdominal wall (or intestine) and fixing it there. Cholecystotomy.—An operation in which the abdomen is opened and the gall- bladder incised for the removal of gall-stones or some other purpose ; the incision may be closed again, or the bladder may be fixed to the abdomi- nal wound, establishing a fistula. See Gall- Bladder AND Bile Ducts, Diseases (Chole- lithiasis). CholedOChotomy.—The opening of the abdomen and the incision of the common bile duct for gall-stones in that duct; then the opening may be closed by sutures, or it may be brought to the abdominal incision and a fistula established (choledochostomy), or it may be made to open into the intestine (cJioledochenterostomy). See Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases (Cholelithiasis, Treatment). Cholelithiasis.—Gall-stones; the dis- eased condition caused by their presence in the gall-bladder, in the cystic duct, or in the common duct. See Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases (Cholelithiasis). Cholera, Asiatic. See Cholera, Epi- demic. Cholera, Epidemic. Synonyms . . . . .115 Bacteriology . . . . .115 Etiology . . , . . .117 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .120 Symptoms . . . . . .120 Prophylaxis . . . . . .122 Prognosis . . . . . .124 Treatment . . . . . .124 See also Air, Examination (Groxind Air) ; Epidemiology ; Fveces {in certain Diseases); Gastro - Intestinal Disorders ; Immunity (Cholera); Meteorology (Seasonal Prevalence); Micro-Organisms ; Water (Diseases produced Synonyms.—Asiatic cholera ; Fr. cholera ; Ger. Brechruhr, Gallensucht ; It. colera asiatico. The Indian names are morshi, mordeshin, vi- suchiha or bisuche, haiza, sitanga, loaba, etc. Derivation.—The word cholera was applied by the Greek and Roman physicians to the disease known as summer cholera or cholera nostras. Its etymology is uncertain. Celsus supposed it to be derived from x^^''li bile, and ptiD, to flow ; others, with Alexander of Tralles, derive it from xoXa8i<;, the intestine, and pew, to flow, while some recent authorities incline to the view that it comes from xoXipa, the gutter of a roof. Bacteriology. — In 1884 Koch discovered the comma bacillus or vibrio, which is now generally recognised as the ens morhi of cholera. Pure cultures of the microbe are undoubtedly capable of giving rise to the disease in man ; and if the evidence derived from the experi- mental production of the cholera in the lower animals is more ambiguous, this arises from the fact that cholera is essentially a human disease, which does not give rise to the same train of symptoms in the lower animals that it does in man. So much unanimity now obtains respect-