365 DIET need reconsideration. His observations, made on athletes, volunteers, and professional men, tend to show that health and efficiency are com- patible with a diet containing much less than the accepted minimum of proteid. They ex- tended over several months, during which con- siderable muscular work was done by the sul)jects without impairment of health or vigour, nor did the energy value of the diet require increase. Chittenden's conclusion, that "the amount of proteid food needed daily for the actual physiological wants of the body is not more than one-half that ordinarily con- smned," has not as yet found general acqui- escence, nor are independent materials for forming a judgment as to its correctness as yet available, but his results are so novel, and have attracted so much interest, that it is only right to draw attention to them here.] Dieta.ryo—An allowance or regulation of food, such as is set down as the rule in hospitals, workhouses, schools, or asyhuns ; or a course of diet, such as is recommended in illnesses. See Diet. Dietetics.—The science which deals with the regulation of the amount and character of food in health and disease. See Diet ; Physio- logy, Food and Digestion {Dietetics). Diethyl.—An isomeric form (CjHg.C.Hj) of normal butane (C^Hj^); it is found' in petroleum. Diethyiamine. — Ammonia in which two of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by ethyl radicles (C.Hj.C.H-.HN or NHEt^). Dieti'S Crises. — The sudden attacks of abdominal pain, accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and collapse, which occur in cases of floating kidney, and are probably due to strangulation of the kidney or to kinks in the renal vessels. See Crisis. Dieulafoy's Aspirator. SeeMvmx- Toi!, Uses of. Diffusion. See Physiology, Respiration {Interehiinye of Gases in the Lungs and in the 'f issues). DigfailiC Acid.—DigalHc or tannic acid (C,^H^„(J,,.2H._,0) is an astringent acid found markedly in galls and also in the tissues of many plants, Galls ; Tannic Acid. Digfestion and iVIetaboiism. Introduction ...... 365 Salivary Digestion .... 366 Saliva—• Composition ..... 366 Fh//sioIo(/iral action .... 366 Pathological constituents . . .366 A^ervons mechanistn . . , .367 Jlorjjhological changes during secretio?i 367 Variations in secretion. . . . 367 Gastric Digestion— Composition of gastric juice . . 367 Conditions influencing the secretion . 36H Sources and mode of formation of con- stituents . . . . .368 jVe7'vous mechanism of secretion . . 36iJ Motor mechanism . . . .369 Duration of digestion . . . 361) Functions of the Gastric Juice and Pro- ducts OP ITS Action . . . .361) Condition affecting rapidity of jjejjton- isation . . . . .370 Action of other enr.i/mes . . . 37U Examination of gastric contents after test meals ..... 370 Examination of voniitedmaterial . 372 Examination of motor activity of stomach . . . . .375 I'atliological variations in digestiott . 375 Bile 375 JVature of secretion .... 375 Physiological action . . .376 Mode of origin of constituents . .376 Pathological cdterations . . . 377 Pancreatic Secretion . . . .377 Nature and method of secretion . . 377 Nervous mechanism . . . .377 Action of the enzymes . . .378 Pathological valuations . . .379 Intestinal Secretion .... 379 Absorption and SuBSEgUENT Fate of— (i.) Proteids 380 (ii.) Carholu/dratcs . . . .381 (iii.) Fats " 382 Absorption of Putrefaction Products . 382 Intestinal Movements .... 382 FiECES 383 DefvEcation ...... 383 See also Alcohol (Special Physiology, Diges- tion) ; Balneology {General Balneo-Therapeutics, Digestive Disorders) ; Climate {General Charac- teristics, Digestion); Headache {Causes, Digestive Tract); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Mov- able Kidney, Symptomatology, Gastro-Intestinal Symptoms); Leucocytosis {During Digestion) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion ; Stomach and DuoDENUJi, Diseases of {Digestion in the Stomach and Duodenum). Under the vague term digestion all those processes may be included to which the food substances are subjected, and the resultant changes which the various food constituents undergo in order to prepare them for assimila- tion by the tissues. It therefore includes a manifold series of processes all tending towards the same point, namely, the transformation of substances, which in their original state could not be made use of by the cell, into pabulum which can easily be taken up, assimilated, and