MELLITUS 323 DIABETES The pc'i'ceutage at various ages recorded by several authors is as follows :— Under 10 10-20 20-30 30-40 40-M 50-00 00-70 70-SO Grube . Soesen . Frfirichs 1 1-T 3 7 10 11-2 16 IS 23'1 24 25 :i',)-5 30 26 lS-1 10 11 3-4 0-5 1 The disease is comparatively rare. At the Manchester Royal Infirmary during the twenty years 1875-95 the number of medical in-patients was 27,721, and of these only 272 suffered from diabetes, i.e. only 0"9 per cent. In India, Ceylon, South Italj-, and Malta, the disease is much more common than in most other countries. In India it is more common among the Hindus than the Moliammedans. It is said to be more common amongst the Jews, but probably it is the wealthy Jews who chiefly suffer. The reports of the Registrar-General show that in England the mortality from the disease is steadily increasing. A similar increase in the mortality has been noted in France, Denmark, and the United States. Predisposing and Exciting Cause.s.—Some- times there is family history of diabetes (13 per cent). Brothers or sisters occasionally suffer; sometimes an uncle or aunt of the diabetic patient has been similarly affected ; but it is very rare to find that the fatiier or mother has had. the disease. After external injuries temporary glycosuria sometimes occurs, and occasionally a true diabetes follows. It is evident that there must be some other factor in the causation. Still sufScient cases are now on record to show that probably an injury is sometimes the exciting- cause (6 per cent of diabetic patients). In at least half of the cases of traumatic diabetes the head has been the seat of the injury. Numerous striking instances are on record in wliich diabetes has rapidly followed fright, violent passion, or mental emotion ; also in man}' eases the symptoms have followed prolonged mental anxiety and worry, owing to loss of money and loss of employment, etc. (this history obtained in 10 per cent of cases). Mental anxiety and over-work associated with the nursing of a sick relative, etc., is sometimes an exciting cause (8 per cent of cases). Obesity is sometimes associated with a mild form of diabetes in individuals between the ages of 40 and 60. In young persons occasionally great obesity is followed by a severe form of the disease. ((.Ircat obesit}- preceded diabetes in 4 per cent of writer's cases.) Gout may be associated with diabetes which is usually of a niild form. Such cases are met with chiefly in private practice and are rare amongst hospital patients. A marked history of alcoholism (chiefly beer- drinking) is sometimes obtained (17 per cent of cases), and jtrobably tliis is an occasional cause of the disease. An attack of iiilluenza, an acute febrile affection, pneumonia, bronchitis, pleurisy, ex- posure to wet and cold, the drinking of cold fluid when the Itody has been very hot, and injury from a lightning stroke, have V)een regarded as occasional exciting causes of the disease. (Diabetes developed directly after an attack of influenza in 8 per cent of cases collected by writer.) It is possible that in a few cases syphilis may be an indirect cause of diabetes by producing cerebral or pancreatic lesions. Occasionally diabetes follows pregnancy or the development of an abscess of the breast (7 per cent of writer's cases). Occasionally dialjctes develops during pregnancy, but ceases with the termination of the latter, to recur at a later date. It has been thought by some writers that the climacteric period favours the occurrence of diabetes in women. In at least 15 per cent of the cases no history of any exciting cause can be obtained. Relation between Diabetes Mellitus and Diseases of the Liver.—From the results of physiological experiments, one would expect that there would be some clear relationshi]) between diabetes and pathological changes in the liver; but no definite or constant patho- logical change is met with in the liver in diabetes, though this organ is sometimes diseased. In 20 cases in Manchester, the liver, as regards size, was enlarged in 11, diminished in 4, and normal in 5. In one of the cases multiple abscesses were present, in another there was cirrhosis, in another fatty infiltration and cirrhosis, in another fatty infiltration and congestion. In tlie other cases, beyond varia- tions in size, the only change -was congestion, whicii was often present. These are the most common abnormalities ; they are not constant, and are very often met with unassociated witii diabetes. The glycogen in tiie liver cells removed by a fine trocar during life was in one case consider- able, but in another case it was absent (Ehrlich). At present 2^"thological anatoiny does not fu)- nish any evidence that diabetes is related to hepatic changes. Relation between Diabetes Meli.itus and Affections of the Nervous Systeji.—It has been already mentioned that diabetes has often followed great mental anxiety, worry, or sudden fright, and there are many points in favour of the connection of diabetes with some change in the nervous system. But important pathologi- cal lesions have been met with in only a small proportion of cases. The changes usually recorded are slight, and such as are frequently met with when no symp- toms of diabetes have been present during life. A numbei- of cases are on record, however, in