38 BURNS AND SCALDS Second, Third, and Fourth Degrees.—Picric Acid.—Within recent years—thanks to Thiery and others of the French school—we have found in picric acid an agent which meets all our requirements in a way not previously attained by the older methods. It is employed in solutions varying in strength from 1 in 100, which is practically a saturated watery solution, to 1 in 50 when alcohol is added. It may be dissolved in sulphuric ether forming a solution of about I in 20, which is painted on to the affected area, and on the evaporation of the ether leaves a covering of a very fine powder of picric acid. A useful lotion of moderate strength is made as follows:— Take of Picric acid . . • I2 drachm. Absolute alcohol . . .3 ounces. Distilled water to . . 40 ounces. Dissolve. After thorough purification of the burned area by antiseptic lotions, pads of lint or sterilised gaiize are lightly wrung out of this solution, and applied over all the affected surface and for some distance beyond. A moderately thick layer of antiseptic wool is put on over this and retained in position by a bandage, preferably a many-tailed bandage, to obviate the necessity for much movement during dressings. A splint to ensure rest is advantageous when possible. It is important to observe that the dressing is applied ivitkout any waterproof covering—that is to say, it is not in the form of a poultice. This dressing may be left in position for from three to seven days, according to the severity of the burn and the degree of asepticity. In burns of the first and second degrees it will be found that in three or four days all will be healed under a single application. In deeper burns, especially when the asepsis may not be absolute, it is well to change the dressing on the third or fourth day. Any portion of the original dress- ing which remains perfectly dry and adherent to the surface need not be removed, but should simply be moistened by pouring a stream of picric acid lotion over it. Any parts of the dressing which are moist from discharge must be removed, the surface thoroughly purified with boracic acid or lysol, and the picric acid pads reapplied. The dressing should be repeated once or twice a week according to circumstances. Among the advantages of the picric acid method may be mentioned its simplicity and safety, as well as the infrequency with which dressings have to "be changed. In a very few cases it has been found to cause temporary pain, but in the vast majority it is not only painless but even anodyne. Although not a powerful antiseptic it is sufficiently strong to maintain the asepticity of a burn which has been carefully purified at the outset. Its absolute dryness is an important factor in preventing the develop- ment of septic bacteria. But its most valuable feature as a dressing for burns is the marked power it has of promoting the proliferation of epithelium — its keratoplastic action — which seems to depend iipon the coagulation of the albuminous exudate from the injured surface forming a non-irritating, aseptic protection to the young epithelial cells. Its only disadvantages are that it temporarily stains the skin of the patient, and the hands of the surgeon and nurses. This to a large extent may be prevented by smearing the hands with vaseline before using it, and afterwards washing in methylated spirit or turpentine. Stains on cotton or linen clothes are readily removed by ordinary laundry processes, but remain per- manent in woollen and flannel articles. In a few isolated cases toxic symptoms— nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, dark-coloured urine, yellowness of skin, and drowsiness—have been alleged to follow its use, but those who have had most experience with picric acid have not observed any symptoms attributable to its absorption. The writer, after an experience of over two hundred and fifty cases treated by this method, has not yet met with any untoward effects. In young children the solution may be diluted to about half its strength with advantage. The results are best in superficial burns of the first, second, and third degrees, but the agent is useful as a primary dressing in burns of all degrees. After the sloughs have separated and a granulating sui-face is left, the usual applications for an aseptic healing sore should be substituted. When the area is large and cicatrisation slow, recourse should be had to skin-grafting by Thiersch's or one of the other methods available. Ichthyol and Thiol.—These, as antiseptics and keratoplasties, are inferior to picric acid. They both cause considerable pain when first applied, but this soon passes off. Ichthyol is applied as a 30 per cent solution in water; thiol, either in watery solution 1 in 4, or as a powder, mixed with subnitrate of bismuth and a small quantity of iodoform. Aseptic Treatment.—Mme. Nageotte has ad- vocated the treatment of burns by simple aseptic dressings after thorough preliminary purifica- tion with chemical antiseptics. The results have not been entirely satisfactory, doubtless from the difficulty of obtaining absolute asepsis, and from the absence of any agent active in the promotion of epithelial regeneration. Moist Applications; greasy substances, like carron oil, carbolic oil, and boracic ointment; substances calculated to occlude the burn, like collodion, dry powders, etc., are only mentioned to be condemned. They entirely fail to meet the indications for the rational treatment of burns on modern lines, and should be aban- doned. Treatment of Complications.—Renal, pul-