CONJUNCTIVA, DISEASES OF •206 cause. But, on the whole, we may with tolerable confidence say that a severe muco-purulent con- junctivitis in this country is likely to be due to Weeks' bacillus, whereas a much milder sub- acute form is probably associated with the diplo- bacillus of Morax. In my experience, the other organisms named above are comparatively rare as causes of conjunctivitis. Characters.—The upper lids are reddish and puffed ; the ocular conjunctiva is bloodshot and perhaps ecchymosed ; the palpebral conjunctiva is uniformly red and rather swollen, and its so- called "follicles" (see page 209) are often peculiarly prominent. Yellowish discharge is found about the eyelashes, at the inner canthus, and, mixed with lacrymal fluid, in the recesses of the conjunctiva. Chemosis is seldom a marked feature. Phlyctenulse about the conjunctiva or elsewhere may be present. The patient com- plains of his eyes feeling hot and heavy, as well as of a sensation which he often likens to sand or dust in the eye; a degree of photophobia is not rare. In uncomplicated cases the cornea is clear, the iris bright, and the pupil mobile. Speaking generally, there is little tendency to corneal mischief, especially in children. When the inflammation is caused by the pneumococcus there is apt to be a thin, fibrinous deposit upon the conjunctiva of the upper lid. The special sign of diplobacillary inflammation (in addition to its subacute character) is angular blepharitis —that is to say, an excoriation and soreness of the inner and outer canthus. Pus infections are observed in children suffering from a coinci- dent impetigo or discharge from the ear. The bacillus coli sets up an acute conjunctivitis which has no distinguishing feature beyond its tendency to subside spontaneously. Treatment.—The principles are:—first, to kill the pathogenic organisms by the local application of antiseptics ; secondly, to remove morbid secretions ; and thirdly, to relieve special symptoms, such as pain. The best remedy for all severe cases is a 2 per cent solution of silver nitrate applied to the exposed conjunctiva once a day. Theacuter symptoms seldom withstand more than three or four applications, but the remedy should be persevered with until microscopical examination shows discharge to be free from the specific organisms. The same agent succeeds in most of the remaining acute muco-purulent inflammations of the conjunctiva, except possibly in that due to the diplobacillus. The latter is best treated by means of a strong solution of zinc sulphate (gr. 10 to the ounce) dropped over the conjunctiva three or four times a day. Chloride of zinc (gr. 5 to the ounce) may also be used with success. For removing discharge from the eye, a saturated solution of boric acid or corrosive sublimate (1 :5000) succeeds ad- mirably. The liquid should be applied at or about body temperature, and the lids, when- ever possible, should be everted. Pain, when at all severe, may be relieved by the local use of a 1 per cent solution of cocaine hydrochloride, dropped into the eyes at intervals of a few hours. In severe cases it may be necessary to give bromide of potassium or chloral internally. 2. Purulent Ophthalmia. — This ailment results from the gonococcus reaching the con- junctival sac. It is extremely contagious. Pathologically., it is characterised by dense cellular infiltration of the subepithelial tissue, and by great thickening of the surface epi- thelium, in which, by suitable means of harden- ing and staining, active karymitosis can be seen. The gonococci do not penetrate the mucosa much deeper than the epithelium, most of which is sooner or later shed. The following points may be noted with regard to gonococci and their relationship to cases of purulent ophthalmia :— (a) They are scanty to begin with, but become numerous when the discharge gets profuse; {h) the thicker the secretion the greater their number; (c) they are not seldom mixed with xerosis bacilli and with pus organisms ; (t^) they may persist for several weeks. In practice purulent ophthalmia is met with under two forms, as it affects (1) newly-born children, and (2) older subjects. The clinical diflerences between these varieties render a separate de- scription desirable. (1) Ophthalmia Neonatorum.—This usually develops on the second or third day after birth. Earlier cases are attributable to a lingering labour in which the infant has been infected during the act of parturition, and later ones to inoculation from contaminated lochia. Material in the maternal passages, containing gonococci, clings to the baby's lashes, and is carried into the eye after birth, either by the blinking of the infant, or by the sponges, water, or other articles employed in the first bath. Its leading feature is a discharge, at first thin and whey- like, and later resembling pus. As the case advances the eyelids are greatly thickened by serous effusion, and when thus swollen they tend to become everted when the baby cries. The palpebral conjunctiva (often difficult to expose) is red, thick, folded, and has a villous look " like a finely - injected foetal stomach " (J. C. Saunders). Chemosis, however, is not common. In this dangerous affection the cornea may be rapidly involved, particularly in prema- ture or syphilitic infants; an abnormal tight- ness of the eyelids also is unfavourable to recovery. The baby, in marked cases, is often fretful, while diarrhoea is apt to come on, especially if the infant is bottle-fed. The com- plications include swelling of the preauricular glands, abscesses about the eyelids, purulent discharges from the external genitals of female children, arthritis, and (rarely) inflammation of the serous membranes. Common results are cicatricial changes in the conjunctiva, opacities of the cornea with or without inclusion of the