CORNEA 242 eye irritable. If not removed, foreign bodies are generally cast off by exfoliation of the part in which they are lying ; during the whole of this time the eye is liable to infection at the seat of the injurj^ especially where the lachrymal sac is not healthy. For their removal the eye should be thoroughly cocainised, two drops of a 2 per cent solution of cocaine should be put into the eye three times at intervals of a minute ; the patient should be seated facing a light, the surgeon standing be- hind him. The lids being held open by the left index and middle fingers, the foreign body may be removed, at first by the edge of a piece of clean blotting-paper, or if it is imbedded by a spud or needle. The ring of oxide round the foreign body should also be removed. If the anterior chamber be penetrated other measures must be taken to prevent the object from being pushed into the chamber, or the parts beneath from being injured. If of iron or steel, the at- tempt should be made to remove it with a strong magnet; this is often unsuccessful owing to complete oxidation of the metal. Eserine should then be used, one or two drops of a solution of 2 gr. to the ounce, to contract the pupil and protect the parts beneath from injury. A keratome or broad needle should be passed into the anterior chamber and held against the back of the cornea behind the perforated spot by an assistant. This will prevent the foreign body being thrust into the chamber by the attempts at removal from the front of the cornea which must now be continued. After removal of any foreign body in which the corneal surface has been broken, a compress should be kept on till the wound is healed, and atropine should be used as for the treatment of a corneal ulcer ; but where the anterior chamber has been opened the atropine should not be used until it has become closed. Sometimes the track of a perforation made by a particle of metal can be seen in the cornea without any trace of the object itself. The iris should be examined carefully, the pupil should then be dilated, the lens minutely inspected, and the fundus systematically examined by the oph- thalmoscope. Finally, in cases of doubt or difficulty the X-rays may be used to determine the presence or absence of a foreign body. Wounds of the cornea made by blunt or jagged instruments are often irregular, and their edges will not come into apposition. If the iris is pro- truding, the exposed part should be drawn slightly forward free from the edges and cut off; the edges of the cut iris should then be tucked back. It is not advisable to attempt to return to the interior of the eye a piece of iris which has been bruised in the wound and exposed to septic contamination. A very useful measure in closing gaping wounds of the cornea is to dissect up a flap from the adjoining conjunc- tiva and place it over the wound in the cornea after thoroughly washing the parts with an irrigator. Burns.—After scalds by hot water, or burns by acids or alkalies, the cornea looks steamy and dull. The extent of the injury depends to some degree upon the nature of the agent effecting it ; alkalies, lime, or sulphuric acid produce serious and permanent damage, whereas even strong- nitric acid or blistering fluid may effect only temporary damage. In the worst cases the cornea appears dry and white, and is completely anaesthetic; this condition is likely to end in complete necrosis. Lime burns are among the most common injuries, but fortunately the lime is nearly always partially slaked : the full effect of lime or caustic alkalies is produced A'ery slowly, and only as recovery takes place can the amount of cicatrisation be appreciated. In every injury of this kind the prognosis should at first be strictly guarded even where the change ap- pears to be slight only; owing to cicatricial changes the conjunctiva may be drawn more or less over the cornea, or adhesions may form between the lid and the cornea. Treatment.—All trace of the caustic agent should be removed; treatment should be by rest, a compress and atropine, a few drops of a solution of 2 gr. to the ounce once a day. The contractile cicatrisation should be prevented as far as possible by putting in pure castor oil three times a day, and once a day allowing free movement of the eye in all directions, carefully separating the lid from the eye. Injuries of the Cornea. — Superficial abrasions are extremely painful, and cause much watering hypersemia and intolerance of light owing to the friction of the lid against the denuded surface. These injuries are frequently caused by branches or leaves of trees, or by the finger-nail. The loss of surface is generally confined to the epi- thelial layer, and is not easily seen luiless we examine the corneal reflex. Treatment.—The firm application of a com- press and atropine, in the form of an ointment (4 gr. to the ounce); cocaine gives temporary relief, but the prolonged use of it is likely to produce softening of the epithelium. As sleep is often impossible it may be advisable to give a hypnotic. Rest and immobility of the eye for a few hours are enough to secure regeneration of the ejjithelium. Relapses of abrasion are sometimes seen with- out any fresh injury {see " Relapsing Bullous Keratitis "). Cornet Player's Emphysema. See Lungs, Emphysema {Inducing Causes). Corn-flour. See Di-et {Vegetable Foods, Cereals); Invalid Feeding {Diet during Con- valescence, Corn-flour). Cornu.—Cornu, literally a horn, means a horn-shaped process or projection, e.g. of a cavity.