CRETINISM 252 if not before, the patient gains flesh consider- ably. The limbs also become firm and strong, and the back straighter and more shapely. The retarded evolution of the teeth is actively resumed. The growth of the skeleton is perhaps the most striking change of all. It begins at once and proceeds rapidly. The patient often gains 2 in. in height within the first two months, and may make as much as 6 or 8 in. in the first year. After that the rate of growth diminishes and approximates to the normal. The appetite is greatly increased by the treatment, and the bowels generally become regular in action. The mental impi'ovement which occurs is apt, at first, to be greatly overestimated by the parents, because the child lools so much brighter and his movements are so much livelier than before. Within six months, however, there is unmistak- able advance, and this continues and increases —the better-nourished brain becoming increas- ingly capable of work. The children become more inquisitive, more independent and enter- prising, and more inclined to do things. They lose their shy, morose, self-centred disposition, and become bright, happj'', childlike, and sociable. In the milder cases, the aiTears of bodily growth are soon fully made up, and the state of the intellect approaches, if it never quite reaches, the normal. In a certain proportion of cases, however, while the bodily recovery is more or less complete, the child remains an imbecile. In adolescent cases (from sixteen to twenty- five years) the improvement is very great, but a considerable degree of deformity remains, owing to the lower limbs not growing in pro- portion to the rest of the body. There is also, at this age, a strong tendency for the legs to become much bowed, and this is extremely difficult to prevent. In adults (after about thirty) the effect of treatment is much less. In them there is usually a growth of one or two inches during the first few months, and none after. The appearance of the face improves greatly, men- struation becomes more or less regular, and the breasts enlarge. Even at this age, however, the treatment is advantageous because of the great improvement which it causes in the patient's general health, and especially in his happiness. Although he still remains a child in mind and a dwarf in bodj', he begins for the first time to take an active pleasure in seeing and doing things and in associating with other people. Creya.t. See Andrographis. Cribriform.— Sieve-like (from Latin, crihrare, to sift); perforated with numerous small holes, e.g. the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. CriCO-.—In compound words crico- refers to the cricoid cartilage (Gr. KpLKo^, a ring, and etSos, resemblance) of the larynx, e.g. crico- arytenoid (relating to the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages), crico-liyoid (relating to the cricoid cartilage and the hyoid bone), cricotomy (open- ing into the larynx by dividing the cricoid cartilage), etc. See Larynx, Affections of the Cartilages ; Physiology, Respiration (Voice). Criminal Responsibility. See aho Unconsciousness {Double Consciousness). —In holding a person responsible {i.e. liable to punishment) for his misdeeds the law rests on two assumptions or postulates regarding human beings. These are (1) that the individual can distinguish between " right" and " wrong " in the concrete case; and (2) that he is possessed of will-i^ower adequate to control his impulses, and to control them in the light of that know- ledge of right and wrong. The law presumes these capacities to be present—presumes a man to be sane according to this standard. Where, however, it can be established that, owing to mental infirmity, these capacities, or eitlier of them, are lacking in any individual, the general rule of responsibility is relaxed. If a criminal act be unmistakably the result of insanity in the perpetrator, the accused is held to be not responsible therefor. The decision of the question whether an accused person is, on the ground of insanity, to be exempted from responsibility for an act with which he is charged, is, of course, the function of the jury, under direction of the judge. But it is the duty of the medical expert to assist them in coming to a right verdict in the matter. It is the purpose of the present article merely to indicate, for the guidance of medical wit- nesses, the standpoint from which the matter will be investigated judicially by setting forth the generally accepted criteria of legal insanity. This article does not attempt to follow the con- troversy between medical and legal authorities as to what degree or what forms of mental derangement ought to exempt from responsi- bility for crime. The authoritative statement of the law of England bearing on criminal responsibility is to be found in the answers of the supreme judges to the questions submitted to them by the House of Lords in 1843 (commonly known as " The Rules in MacNaughton's Case," 4 St. Tr. N.S. 847). The leading feature in these rules, as compared with the views previously enun- ciated by legal authorities in England, was the repudiation of a knowledge of right and wrong merely in the abstract as any test of sanity, and the substitution of the question whether the accused at the time of the act was labouring under such a defect of reason from disease of the mind as not to know the nature and quality of the particular act he was doing. Baron