DIABETES MELLITUS 327 In the severe foriDS of diabetes /J-oxybutyrie acid is often foiuid in the urine. The BijOOD.—The most important change in the blood is the excess of sugar present. A minute (piantity of sugar is present in normal blood (0-6 to rO, or a little more than 1-0 per 1000, Bavy ; average in ten healthy men, Iw per 1000, Sccgen). In diabetes mellitus the amount of sugar in the blood is usiially greatly increased, and may reach 2'7 to 5'7 per 1000. The writer has discovered a simple method of distinguishing diabetic blood from non-diabetic blood by its reaction with a solution of methy- lene blue. This method is extremely sensitive, and it is only necessaiy to examine a drop of blood obtained by pricking the linger. On heat- ing a drop of diabetic blood and an alkaline solution of methylene blue in proportions the blue colour of the solution is removed, whilst if non-diabetic blood be used in place of diabetic blood (in the mme jiroportion) the solution retains its blue colour. The test may be performed as follows:—A small, narrow test-tube is well cleaned, and a drop of water (40 cubic millimetres) placed at the bottom. It is important to use a narrow- test-tube so that the ujjper surface of the fluid with which the air comes in contact may be as small as possible. To measure the quantity of blood the capillary tube of a Gowers' htemo- globinomcter which is graduated for 20 cubic iiiillimetre!i'm3i,y be used. The tip of one of the patient's fingers is cleaned and dried, and then pricked. When a large drop of blood has escaped it is sucked up into the capillary tube. Twenty cubic millimetres of blood arc taken from the fingei'. The blood is blown gently into the water at the bottom of the small test-tube. Then 1 cubic centimetre {i.e. 1000 cubic milli- i/ietres) of a watery solution of methylene blue is added. The strength of the methylene blue solution is 1 in 6000. (To measure the methy- lene blue solution the 1 cc. pipette tube of Southall's ureometer may be used.) To the mixture of blood and methjdene blue in the test-tube finally 40 cubic millimetres of liquor potassic (B.B.) are added. Tlie fluids in the tube are then well mixed by shaking. As a control experiment a second test-tube of similar size is taken, and into this is placed the same quantity of non-diabetic blood with the same pro[)ortion of water, methylene blue, and li(][Uor potassai. The fluid in each tube has a fairly deep-blue colour. Both small tubes are then placed in a beaker, capsule, or very wide test-tube contain- ing water. Heat is applied by a spirit lamp until the water boils. It is allowed to continue boiling for about four miniites. By the end of this time the fluid in the tube containing the diabetic blood changes its colour from a fairly deep-blue to a dirty pale yellow (almost the colour of normal urine), whilst the fluid in the tube containing the nou-dialietic blood remains blue. Occasionally it becomes bluish - green, sometimes violet; but it never loses its blue colour. The tubes should be kept quite still whilst in the water-bath, as by shaking the decolorised methylene blue is apt to be oxidised by the oxygen of the atmosphere, and a blue tint may then return to the fluid. This is the reason why it is necessary to employ a water- bath, since if the test-tubes be heated directly over a spirit lam|.) it is difficult to avoid shaking the fluid. A milky appearance of diabetic blood has occasionally been observed on post-mortem examination. In other cases the blood has had a pink colour, and on standing a milky or cream- like serum has separated on the surface. This cream-like condition of the serum has been shown by microscojiical and chemical examina- tion to be due to the presence of fat globules. Analysis of the blood has sometimes shown that the percentage of fat has been increased. Symptoms, Complications, and Pathological Changes in connection with the various Systems.—Besides the changes in the urine other prominent symptoms are—thirst, increased appetite, great weakness, and emaciation in the severe forms of the disease, a harsh dry skin, often a red, raw-looking tongue. The tempera- ture is normal or subnormal except when com- plications occur. Alimentary Canal, Liver, and Pancreas.— The saliva is usually scanty and the mouth dry. The gums are often inflamed, spongy, and swollen. The teeth are often carious, and be- come loose and fall out. Thirst is one of the most chai'acteristic symptoms of the disease, and often enormous quantities of fluid are taken ; but in very mild cases the thirst is slight or absent; and also in severe cases during the last few days of life the thirst often diminishes or ceases, when phthisis or other complications have developed. The appetite is generally increased greatly, but this is not such a constant symptom as thirst. In certain mild cases the appetite is not increased; also in severe cases at a late stage the appetite fails. Diabetic patients very fre(iuently suft'cr from constipation. In clironic cases diarrha'a is occa- sionally present. Pathological examination does not reveal any characteristic change in the stomach or intes- tines. Occasionally tuberculous ulceration «. f the intestines has been met with. The patho- logical changes in the liver and pancreas have been already referred to. The Lungs.—The most frequent pulmonary complication is tubercular phthisis. It occurs more frequently in young diabetics, and in the severe forms of the disease amongst the poor. In elderly diabetics, especially in the obese or gouty, tuberculosis is much less frequent. In 100 consecutive cases (chiefly hospital