CATHETERS, USES AND DANGERS OF 73 useful when there is a dilatation at the bulb or a median enlargement of the prostate. Force is quite inadmissible ; the instrument nnist find its own way. If the eatheter is a rigid one the change in the direction of the urethra as it winds under the pubes through the triangular ligament must be borne in mind, and care must be taken to depress the handle sufficiently. False passages, when they do not Ijegin in front of a stricture, always start from this point, and generally run upwards and backwards between the prostate and the bowel. If the finger is introduced into the rectum the least deviation can be detected at once. In cases of enlarge- ment of the ijrostate an English gum-elastic, which has been kept for some time over-curved upon a stilet, sometimes succeeds when others do not; or Hey's well-known plan ma}' be tried of passing the catheter down to the obstruction, withdrawing the stilet, and at the same time gently pressing the instrument onward. In stricture cases a catheter with a very long and fine whip-like end beyond the eye will sometimes find its way. Small metal catheters require the greatest care, as the points are very sharp and the walls of the urethra very tender. AVhen the object is to draw off a large amount of residual urine, and it is essential to prevent any organ- isms being carried into the bladder, an instru- ment like Melchior's should be used. This consists of two tubes, one gliding inside the other. The outer is of metal, and is sufficiently long to reach the membranous portion. Its vesical end is closed with a film of rubber held in place by a metal cap. As soon as this is in position, a smaller flexible one is pushed down through it and through the rubber film directly into the prostatic urethra, so that the catheter which enters the bladder is never brought into contact with the meatus or the mucous mem- brane of the anterior portion of the urethra. Pain and Spasm.—The urethra is exceedingly sensitive, especially the deeper portion. The passage of an instrument through this is always accompanied by pain and sometimes by syncope. All instruments nuist be warmed. Under the nuicous membrane is a stout layer of unstriped muscular fibre which often grijjs the catheter firmly, and prevents it for a time from being pushed on or drawn back ; but the contraction always tires itself out in the course of a few minutes. A preliminary injection of a few drops of a 2 per cent solution of cocaine will prevent both pain and spasm. The passage of a catheter, especially for the first time, is liable to be followed by conse- quences, some of which, such as syncope and shock, are referable to the reflex actioji of the )ie)-vo)is St/stem, while others are due to the intro- duction of .leptic organisms into the deeper part of the urethra and the bladder. Syncope. — Syncope is not uncommon, and may be serious if in an old man a large amount of residual lu-ine is suddenly allowed to stream out through a full-sized catheter while lie is standing upright. Shock is rarely grave or general, Init local shock, due to inhibition of some of the nerve centres in the lumbar portion of the spinal cord, is not at all uncommon. It ma J' show itself by retention from inliibition of the centre which controls the act of micturition, or by h Hematuria from congestion of the kidneys due to temporary vasomotor paralysis, or even by suppression of lu'ine. As the cause is a very transient one the effects nearly always subside without any active measures lieing necessary. Septic Poisoning.—The eflects which are due to the introduction of septic organisms may be either local or general. The former include the inflammatory aftections of the urethra, bladder, epididymis, and prostate, which are so often met with after careless catheterism ; the latter com- prise the ditterent forms of what is miscalled catheter or urinary fever. The bacillus coli is the most common septic organism, but the staphylococcus aureus, citreus, and albus, the strej^tococcus pyogenes, and the bacillus ureie liquefaciens are all of frequent occurrence, alone and together. They may enter the urinary passages through the blood - stream or the lymjjhatics, invading the walls first; or they may come down from the kidneys in the urine, or ascend upwards from the meatus (especiallj- in the case of women) ; but when febrile attacks occur after the introduction of a catheter, the organisms which cause them are nearly always carried in on the surface or in the eye of the instrument. It is for this reason that sterilisa- tion is so important. The simplest form of urinary fever is a rigor or shivering fit, due to absorption through some abrasion (or perhaps even through the unbroken surface of the urethra) of the toxins which have been formed by septic organisms growing in the urethra. It begins as a rule, not when the catheter is passed, but some hours later, after the first act of micturition. All of a sudden the patient is seized witli intense prostration and chilliness, which is described as being felt inside. The skin becomes rough and hvid. The face is pinched. The eyes look sunken, and are surrounded by dusky rings. The respiration is hurried and shallow, and the pulse small and frequent. From the first moment, even when the teeth are chattering and the patient shivering, the temperature begins to rise, and it continues through the period of dry, Iwrning heat whicli follows until sometimes it reaches 106° F. In ten minutes or half an hour, accoi-ding to the severity of the attack, profuse perspiration sets in, the face becomes flushed, the involuntary muscular fil)re in the skin relaxes, and there is a sensation of profound relief although the patient is utterly exhausted. Rigors do not occur even after such operations as internal urethrotomy if care is taken to render