DIARRHCP]A 346 in association with necrosis of mucous membrane. Jhicus may be present in considerable abundance in catarrhal conditions of the large intestine, and the passage of mucous casts or " skins " is characteristic of a condition described as nmcous disease or mucous colitis. Fat may be present in the stools in considerable abundance, some- times largely in the form of fatty crystals, in association with deficiency of bile (so-called " acholic diarrhoea ") or more characteristically of the pancreatic juice. Pus, gall-stones, enteroliths, intestinal parasites, fragments of gangrenous mucous membrane or of malignant tumours, may be discovered in the motions (see " FfBces "). Pain.—Abdominal discomfort and even actual pain are present in most cases, usually most marked in the lower abdomen, and dependent on irregular peristalsis of the intestine and flatu- lence, parts of the intestine being spasmodically contracted, while neighbouring parts are over- distended by gas. The passage of the flatus is often attended by rumbling noises or bor- borygmi. Where there is much irritation in the rectum defcccation is often attended by severe tenesmus. Fever.—In ordinary simple diarrhcoa fever is either absent or slight and transient, but many of the diseases which cause diarrhoea are highly febrile. Constitutional.—AVhen large liquid motions succeed each other rapidly as in choleraic diarrhoea the tissues are drained of fluid, the secretions, especially the saliva and the urine, are arrested, and the patient suffers severely from thirst, and soon sinks into a condition of collapse. The Varieties of Diarrhoja.—Diarrhoea is a symptom of so many different pathological conditions that it is impossible to give any natural classification of the varieties met with. For convenience the following groups may be recognised:— (1) A large number of cases are due to local irritation, arising especially from the ingestion of improper food. Here we may also include diarrhoea due to excess of bile or to absence of bile; to intestinal concretions; to intestinal parasites; to purgative drugs, and to certain irritant poisons. A choleraic diarrhoea may result from arsenical poisoning. In these cases the irritation may lead to increased peristalsis, or to intestinal hypera;mia and catarrh, or to slight or severe inflammation of the mucosa. (2) Certain forms of diarrhoea have long been recognised as eliniinatlve, especially the diarrhoea of uraemia. Diarrhoea considered to be of this character has been described as occurring in rheumatism, diabetes, gout, and in certain fevers, especially confluent smallpox, influenza, puerperal fever, and streptococcic infections. Diarrhoea due to exposure to cold is possibly sometimes of this nature. Watery diarrhoea may be present during the disappearance of ascites or other effusions. (3) Nervous (psychical) influences may give rise to diarrhoea, for example in persons about to undergo a surgical operation. (4) Many instances of diarrhoea are micr-ohic in origin. Under this heading are included those due to toxic substances arising from putrefactive pi'ocesses in foods and beverages (meat poisoning, cheese poisoning, etc.). The specific organisms of typhoid fever, cholera, cholei-a nostras, certain forms of dysentery, tuberculosis, may be found in the stools. Several outbreaks of diarrhoea have been attributed to forms of the bacillus enteritidis (Gardner). The diagnosis of malarial diarrhoea has been made by the discovery of Laveran's Plasmodium in red blood-corpuscles contained in the stools. Diarrha'a has been attributed,, perhaps somewhat doubtfully, to certain Rhizopoda (monadines) and Infusoria (Cerco- nionas intestinalis, Trichomonas intestinalis, Paramoecium coli). (5) Diarrhoea may be secondary and associated with inflammation or even ulceration of the mucosa of the small or large intestine. Such inflammation may be (a) catarrhal, arising in the course of the specific fevers, as a terminal process in wasting diseases, or as a result of portal obstruction; {h) croupous or diphther- itic ; or (c) ulcerative, as in tubercle, cancer, dysentery, typhoid fever. Chronic Diarrhcxa.—Chronic diarrhoea may follow an acute attack or may develop in- dependently. It is usually associated with intestinal catarrh due to one of the conditions already mentioned. Intestinal catarrh as- sociated with portal obstruction is not un- common in elderly people, and is associated with diarrhoea, debility, and anaemia. Marked depression of spirits may also be present. Mucous diarrhoea (mucous colitis) is a very chronic affection, but the severity of the symptoms varies greatly from time to time. It is charactei'ised by the passage of the mucous casts spoken of above, and in some instances by severe enteralgia. Tropical diarrhoea is a generic term applied to several forms of chronic diarrhwa which are apt to afflict Europeans who have been long resident in tropical climates. Diagnosis.—Occasionally patients complain of diarrhoea who do not suffer from diarrhoea at all, but simply from some local irritation about the anus or rectum. When diarrhoea is present the important point in diagnosis is to ascertain its cause. If the attack is acute it may be pos- sible to trace it to some indiscretion in diet, or to some special article of food which may have given rise to intestinal disturbance in all who partook of it, or to exposure to cold. If the diarrhoea is very severe, and attended by pain and vomiting, the possibility of its being due to