185 COLON, DISEASES OF is much commoner in males than in females, and sometimes occurs in young children, having in them probably existed since birth. The dis- tension of tlie intestine is very great, and per- cussion shows tliat it is cliiefiy due to gas. Shortness of breath is a cause of comjjhxint, and the patient may be livid because the diaphragm is pushed up and the breathing liampered. The upward disphicement of the heart gives rise to jtalpitation. 'I'he splenic dulness is obHterated, the hepatic dulness is diminished, and the liver cannot be felt. The abdomen is always dis- tended, sometimes enormously so, and then it may be tympanitic all over ; usually neither coils nor peristaltic movements are visible. In very rare cases the pressure has been so great as to lead to a'dema of the legs, scrotum, and penis, and to albuminuria. Most of the patients for some time, often for years, have had some difh- culty with the bowels, constipation supervening from time to time ; but this is not usually very serious, and has yielded to purgatives or enemas. After death, both layers of the muscular coat are found to be hypertrophied, and there is often some ulceration of the dilated mucous membrane. The distended bowel contains some semi-solid faeces and an enormous quantity of gas. Of the recorded cases all the patients except one have died : occasionally death is due to perforation of an ulcer, but more frequently the cause of it is by no means cleai", and then it may be sudden. The treatment has hitherto been very luisatis- factory. Probably tlie best course woidd be to open the bowel above the dilatation, wash out the dilated part, and let the fieces pass for some time through the artificial anus, and so give the affected part rest. Sacculation of the Colon is not a common condition. The diverticula are usually the size of a pea, but they may be large enough to receive the little finger, and half an inch in depth. They are most frequent in the descending colon, sigmoid flexure, or upper part of the rectum. Usually they are very nmneroTis, are placed close together, and contain a little ftiDcal matter. They are to be regarded as hernial protrusions of the unicous membrane through the muscular coat. They are foinid for the most part in elderly people. Only once have I heard of their giving rise to symptoms, and that was in a case in which the perforation of one of these sacculi led to the formation of an abscess between the left kidney, spleen, and ascending colon. Injuries op the Colon.—Laceration of tlie Colon.—Sometimes, but very rarely, this is due to an enema tube or bougie, but it is not very infre(iuent for a nurse or a doctor to be ex- cessively afraid that the administration of an enema has led to perforation of the bowel; for in elderly people the evacuation of the bowel by an enema is often accompanied by much faint- ness and even by syncope. The pulse may become quite small and the patient appear collapsed. Elderly or feel)le people should never be allowed to get out of bed for the evacuation of the bowels after the administration of an enema unless they are in thi^ habit of using enemata. The kinds of accident that most frequently damage the intestine are : being run over, kicked in the abdomen, or stabbed there. The small intestine is much more often affected than the large. {See "Abdomen, Injuries of.") Perforation of the Colon from vrithout.—All sorts of abscesses may burst into the colon ; thus iliac and psoas abscesses, localised peritoneal collections of pus, hepatic abscesses, appendicular abscesses, splenic abscesses, ovarian abscesses, suppurating growths, abscesses of the gall- bladder, and hydatids of the liver may all burst into the colon. This vent is usually recognised by the fact that the original tumour becomes smaller, and there is a discharge of pTis by the bowel. Malformations of the Colon.—These are excessively rare, but they depend for the most part upon malposition of the cajcum. It will be remembered that the first position of this struc- ture is outside the abdomen, then inside just under the umbilicus, then to the lower part of the left side of the abdomen, next near the cardiac end of the stomach, later under the liver, and lastly in the right iliac fossa. The cfecum may remain in any of these positions, while the colon continues to grow. This naturally gives rise to various malformations. Metallic Pigmentation of the Colon.— Sometimes lead may be deposited in the tissues of the colon. Thus a man who had lead colic died from chronic Bright's disease. The whole of the caecum and large int(>stine was very black. The colon contained -0086 per cent of lead. In this case as in others the pigmentation at the caecum began very abrujjtly. There is nothing to show that lead is not deposited in the colon by the same process as leads to the formation of a blue line on the gums. In very rare instances mercury and bismuth may cause black pigmentation of the colon. Malignant Disease of the Colon.—A prim- ary growth in the colon is almost always a cylindrical celled epithelioma; it is usually circumscribed to a small spot, and then by its contraction sets up intestinal obstruction. Occasionally, however, the growth is soft and medullary, then it breaks down in the centre, and intestinal obstruction does not arise. Thus there are clinically two groups of cases of malig- nant disease of the colon—those without and those with symptoms of intestinal ol)struction. A post-mortem examination on the group of cases in which there is no intestinal obstruction reveals that several inches of colon are affected with growth, usually forming an obvious tumour visible directly the abdomen is opened. On cutting into this mass it is found that the