BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BR0NCHIP:CTAS1S ■27 1. Some weakening of the bronchial wall, either congenital or more commonly of inflam- matory origin. 2. Some alteration in the normal conditions of pressure either within or without the tube. Inducing Caush.—There is no doubt the forced expiratory efforts associated with cough- ing are an important factor in bringing about the yielding of an already weakened wall, though it is impossible to eliminate the effects of dyspnoea with increased inqyiratory effort. The accumula- tion of secretion combined with the eft'ects of gravitation doubtless ha\ e their due share in some cases. Morbid Anatomy ami Pathology.—The leading features will lie readily appreciated by reference to the points indicated mider Etiology. Thus the appearances vary with the cause, the dura- tion, and the presence of complications (pytemia, haemorrhage, etc.). Two general forms are recog- nised : (1) the cylindrical or fusiform ; (2) the globular or sacculated form. The bronchial walls may be attenuated and atrophied, and the sur- rounding lung tissue rarefied or emphysema- tous. More commonly the walls are markedly thickened, the peri-bronchial tissue indurated, the surrounding connective tissue showing a true interstitial and reticular cirrhosis, while the intervening alveoli contain catarrhal pro- ducts, which later become organised. The chronic pneumonia thus induced is secondary to the affection of the bronchus. In other cases the lung consolidation is primary, and the bron- chiectasis secondary. Thus a twofold indura- tion of lung tissue occurs, sometimes confined to the neighbourhood of the dilated bronchus and presenting irregular patches of consolidation, at others spreading to the entire lobe. In acute bronchiectasis the whole lung may lie riddled with cavities. This is well seen in children, when the lung is often sponge-like and honey- combed. In the fusiform variety long cavities are fotuid, either radiating from the root of the lung to the periphery', or confined to one or both bases. In the saccular form the cavity is usuallj' basal, and it may be deep-seated or superficial, containing very offensive, piu'ulent secretion. In rare cases the dilatation is apical, and is thus usually associated with tuberculous disease. Occasionally a bronchiectatic cavity may closely simulate a phthisical one, but the two can be differentiated by the presence of the basement membrane in the former. The other viscera—heart, liver, brain, kidneys, etc. — may show secondary changes which are, however, not characteristic of this condition. Thus we may find any or all of the pathological appearances of pypemia, acute or chronic. Htemorrhages of serous membranes, acute pleurisy or pericarditis, empyema, and metastatic abscesses of brain or other distant parts are not uncommon. Character of the Secretiox^; and Broni'iiial Contents.—On standing the secretion forms two layers, an upper frothy, yellowish or lirown in colour, and a lower consisting of purulent and solid matter. The odovu' is extremely offensive, and must be smelt to lie appreciated. FfBcal is the term that most nearly describes it, liut a smell is difficult to define. The solid matter consists of pus-cells, granular matter, and micro- organisms. Crystals are sometimes found of leucin, tyrosin, cholesterin, and fatty acids with many oil-globules. Post-mortem, the dilated bronchi are often found to be filled with pulta- ceous, caseous-looking material (see "Expectora- tion Clinical Phenomena.—Acute Bromchieci'asis or bronchiolectasis is usually a disease of chil- dren. Its symptoms cannot he distinguished during life from those of the capillary Iji-onchitis with which it is associated. Chronic Bronchiectasis is a disease of chil- dren or of early or middle life, occurring more frequently in men th;in in women. When secondary to phtliisis, cancer, or obstruction of bronchi from any cause, it may occur in either sex or at any age. Cylindrical bronchiectasis is only to be difter- entiated from the chronic bronchitis or other disease of which it forms a part by the excessive bronchial secretion, occasionally hy factor of the cough or expectoration (though this is by no means constant), arid by the enlargement or clubbing of the terminal phalanges of fingers and toes, which is frequently but not invariably seen. The characteristic symptoms of the disease are more commonly observed in the sacculated bronchiectases, less often in the cylindrical. Cough is a prominent symptom, and expectora- tion with excessive secretion of an extremely offensive and foetid odour. The cough is frequently intermittent in char- acter and occurs in violent paroxysms, somewhat resembling whooping-cough, and terminating in the expulsion of a large quantity of mucus or muco-pus presenting the characteristic features described. Sometimes one fit of coughing, or perhaps two, occur during the twenty-four hours, often induced by change of posture (such as rising from bed, stooping, lying down). It seems probable that the reason for the paroxysmal nature of the cough and large expulsion of bronchial secretion is due, in the few cases in which it is present, to the mechanical position of the cavitj'^ or cavities, which, when tilled be- yond a certain point, overflow on the least change of position into the neighbouring undilated tube, and set up an irritable spasm which leads to violent expiratory efforts and sulisequent expul- sion of the contents. The sacculated tubes being thus emptied entirely or partially, the patient may be free from cough for the rest of the day and com- paratively comfortable. In other cases the cough does not exhibit this paroxysmal nature,