173 COD-LIVER OIL may be given as an emulsion, with malt, with iron, and in other wayy. See Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; etc. Coclo- or CocliO-.—in compound words tw/o- or ca4to- (fi'om Gr. koTAo?, hollow) signifies " relating to the abdomen." The coeliac affection, for instance, is an intestinal disorder of young chikh-en in which the stools are pale, bulky, loose, and porridgy, in which there is wasting, pallor, and absence of fever, and in which death is not an uncommon termination, although it may be long delayed. Coeliadelphus is a terato- logical type of double monster in which the twins are united by their abdomens. Cceiiagra is gout in the abdomen. Coeliochalasis is a relaxed state of the abdominal walls. Coeliocyeds is ectopic pregnancy of the abdominal type. Cffliodynia. is pain in the abdomen. Coelioschisis is an open state (congenital) of the abdomen. Coeliostef/nosis is constipation. Coeliotomy is opening into the abdominal cavity for diagnostic or operative jiurposes. See Abdomen, Injuries OP {Treatment); Labour, Operations (Ca^sarean Section); Ovaries, Diseases of (Ovariotomy) ; etc. Coelom is the body-cavity or space between the two layers of the mesoblast. See Fqstus and Ovum, Development. Coenadelphus. — From Gr. kowo^, common, and a(5€A</)os, brother—is that terato- logical type of united twins in which the heart or liver is common to both. CcenaesthesiS. —The feeling of weari- ness and lassitude or of sj^rightliness, without the usual exciting causes (muscular work, etc.); or the vague consciousness of being, without the evidence supplied by the special senses. Coenurus Cerebral is.— From Gr. Kou'ijs", common, and oi'yju, a tail; the vesicular stage of the Tania caennrus. See Parasites {Coifodc^, Tapewcjrms). Coffee. See Caffeinic Acid ; Caffeina ; Diet [Beverages); Neurasthenia {Treatment, Preventive); Physiology, Food and Digestion (Tea, Coffee, Cocoa); Temperature (Diurnal Variations). Coffee-Ground Vomiting-.—The vomiting of blood altered in appearance by the action of the gastric juices. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (Ulcer., Symptoms). Coffin-Birth.—Birth of the infant after the death of the mother (jmst-mortem partvri- tion), due probably to the presence of putre- factive gases in the abdomen. Coffin ism. — A mode of treatment of disease, so called after a Dr. Coffin, who practised it; the drugs given were chiefly cayenne pepper and lobelia inflata. Cognac. See Alcohol (Spirits, Brandy). Cogwheel Respiration.—A jerky or wavy form of inspiration (in deep respiration) noted on auscultation in cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, etc. See Chest, Clinical Inves- tigation OF. Cohnheim's Theory.— The theory that neoplasms originate in cell " rests " present in the tissues before birth and lying latent till adult life; it was supposed that the discovery of the microbic origin of some tumours had dis- credited this theory, but in its modified modern form (theory of embryomata) it lias many supporters. See also Adrenal Glands (Tumours,. Adrenal " Rests "). Coif. See Caul. Coiling of Cord. See Labour, Faults^ in the Passenger (Cord) ; Labour, Accidental Complications (Coils of the Coi-d). Coin-Sound. — Tlie metallic echoing sound heard in pneumothorax, when one observer listens over the back of the chest while another sharply taps a coin placed on the front of the chest. See Bruit d'Airain. Coitus.—Sexual intercourse (from Latin ciieo, to come together). See Medicine, Foren- sic (Rape) ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis (Date of Coitus); Pregnancy, Management (Coitus during Pregnancy); Vice (Sexual System, Apathy). Coke. See Toxicology (Gaseous I'oisons, Carl/on Monoxide). Cola. See Kola. Colchicine.—An alkaloid (?), the active principle of colchicum (q.v.); ebullition with acidulated water is said to convert it into colchiceine(CoiH22(OH)NOj,) and methyl alcohol; according to Zcisel the formula of colchicine is C.,]H22(OCH3)N05. See Alkaloids (Vegetable); Colchicum ; Toxicology (Alkaloids, Colchicum). Colchicum. See Govt; Pharmacology;. Prescribing ; Toxicology (Colchicum).—Both the corni and the seeds of Colchicum autmnnale are official. The active principle is Colchicine, a yellow crystalline alkaloid. Veratrine is also present in traces. The seeds contain a greater proportion of the active alkaloid than the corm, and possess in addition a volatile oil. The pre- 2Mrations from Colchici cormus&ve:—1. Extrac- tum Colchici. Dose—\-\ gr. 2. Vinum Colchici. Dose—10-30 m. From ColcJdci semina is pre- pared Tinctura Colchici Seminum. Dose—5-15 m. Colchicum is a specific for gout, and is hardly ever used except in this disease. Given during an acute attack, it lessens the pain and cuts short the attack. In smaller doses in the