177 COLLAPSE l^ARTUM HAEMORRHAGE {Fost,-h(riiiorrha,gic Col- hipse); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Rupture of Ute?'ux); Labour, Injuries TO the Generative Organs (Acute Inversion of Uterus); Pancreas, Diseases of {Hemorrhage in); PuERPERiUM, Pathology {Sudden Death); Temperature {Alterations, Depression). Colles' Fracture. See Wrist-Joint Injuries {Fractures of the Boiws of the Fore- arm). Colles' Law.—The fact that a woman (not apparently sutt'ering from syphilis) wlio has given birth to a syphilitic, child may suckle it without risk of becoming infected ; it is sup- posed to be due to maternal immunisation by small doses of the syphilitic virus received tiirough the placental connections; it is not an absohite law, for exceptions have been reported (CJ. Novy, Zentrlbl. f. Gynak. xxx. 590, 1906). See Beaumes' Law ; Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Syphilis). Col ley's Operation. See Palate, ('i>El"r {Operative Treatment). Collier's Bronchitis. See Bronchi, Bronchitis (CI/, ron ic). Colliquative Necrosis.—A post- necrotic tissue-cliange in wliich softening and liquefaction without decomposition occur, e.g. in tiie cerebral tissues after embolism. Collodia. — Solutions of pyroxylin or soluble gun-cotton (CgH5,(NO.,),,05) in ether or in a mixture of etiier and alcohol. See Collodion. Collodion.—The official collodvum is a solution of dinitro-celiulose (C,;Hg(N0.,).,05) or pyroxylin, in ether and alcohol; from this, collodvum flexile is obtained by the addition of Canada balsam and castor oil. Collodivni vesi- cans contains 1 part of pyroxylin dissolved in 40 parts of Li(juor P^pispasticus. Clollodion, when |)aiuted on the skin, rapidly dries and forms a ]irotective film; so it is used for closing small wounds, for attaching dressings, for protecting irritated parts from the air, and for the local application of medicines, such as cantharides, carltolic acid, iodoform, mercury, creosote, iron, lead, tannic acid, etc. See Aseptic Treatment ; Colloid ; Gossypium ; Pharmacology ; Pre- scribing. Colloid Degeneration.—The for- mation of a semi-solid, structureless, jelly-like substance (colloid) in epithelial cells, especially in those of the thyroid gland and in cancers ; colloid has no fixed chemical constitution, but it is not identical with mucin (for it is precipitated by tannic acid, but not by alcohol and acetic acid). See Choroid, Diseases of {Choroidal Degeneration); Fluids, Examination of {Ovarian vol. II Cysts); Peritoneum, Tumours (C'o//o;VZ Cancer); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases(A"efj Growths, Carcino7n<ita). Colloid Milium. See Tumours of the Skin {llenign, Culloiil-M Hi am). Colloid, Styptic—A preparation con- taining tannic acid (20 parts), alcohol (5 parts), stronger ether (20 parts), and collodion (55 parts); xylo-styptic ether (U.S. Pharmacopoeia). Collunaria.—Nasal douches or washes (Latin, coliuo, 1 wash). Collutorium.—A mouth wash or gargle (Latin, coliuo, I wasli). Collyria.—Eye-salves or eye-washes (Gr. KuAAi'/Koi', an eye-salve). Coloboma.— Coloboma (Gr. ko\o/36<;, mutilated) signifies a defect, and more especially a congenital fissure or defect of some part of the eye, e.g. of the eyelid (C. palpebrce or hlepharo- coloboma), of the iris (C. iridis), of the choroid (C. choroidis), of the lens (C. lentis), or of the retina {C. retince). Fissure of the lobule of the ear is kno\vn as Coloboma lobuH. See Cheek, Fissure op ; Choroid, D ISEASES OF {Congenital Affections); Eyelids, Affections op {Congenital Defects); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Congenital Abnormalities of the Iris); Lens, Crystalline {Coloboma) ; Mental Deficiency {Coloboma iridis in); Palate {Congenital Malfor7nations of Mouth); Retina and Optic Nerve {Congenital A bnormalities). ColOCynth. See Pharmacology ; Toxi- Colo(.:y {Abortifacients).—Colocynthidis Pul2m is derived from Citrulluscolocynthis, the bitter apple. It contains colocynthin, a neutral crystalline glucoside, and various resinous substances. Its jwejjarations are :—1. Extractmn Colocynthidis Compositum. Contains also Barbados aloes and scammony. Dose—2-8 gr. 2. Pilula Colocyn- thidis Composita. Contains also Barbados aloes and scammony. Dose—4-8 gr. 3. Pilula Colocynthidis et Hyoscyami. Same formula as the last witli extract of hyoscyamus added. Dose—4-8 gr. Colocynth is a very efficient and widely used hydragogue cathartic. It causes a large increase of intestinal secretion, and stimulates the whole length of the bowel. It causes considerable griping if given alone, and the pill with hyoscy- amus is therefore most commonly employed. It is too irritating to be given repeatedly over long periods ; but whenever a free purging of the whole intestinal tract is required no better drug is to be found. Colon, Diseases of. Inflammation and Ulceration . . 178 Simple Colitis . . • • .178 Membranous Colitis . - • .179 12