253 CRIMINAL RESPONSIBILITY Hume (in his Scottish treatise on Crimes, i. p. 37) had put the matter thus : " The ques- tion must be relative to the particular act done, and tlie accused's knowledge of the situation in which he did it. Did he as at that moment understand the evil of what he did 'l Was he impressed with the consciousness of guilt and fear of punishment?" The English judges followed the Scottish authorities by laying it down that the inquiry must be directed to the accused's mental state in relation to the particu- lar act done. To estaV)lish a defence on the ground of insanity, tiierefore, it must be clearly proved that at the time of committing the act the accused was labouring under such a defect of reason, from disease of the mind, as not to know the nature and quality of the act he was doing ; or, if he did know it, that he did not know he was doing what was wrong. " If the accused was conscious that the act was one which he ought not to do, and if the act was at the same time contrary to the law of the land, he is punishable." If a person under an insane delusion as to existing facts commits a criminal oft'ence in consequence thereof, he is not necessarily freed from responsibility on the ground of insanity. Much depends on the nature of the delusion. The accused's responsibility is to be determined hy considering whether, assuming as real the facts with regard to wdiich the delusion exists, there would or would not be legal justification for his conduct. Thus, if under the influence of his delusion he supposes another man to be in the act of attempting to take away his life, and he kills that man, as he supposes, in self- defence, he would be exempt from punishment. If, on the other hand, his delusion was that a man had only injured him in reputation or fortune, and he killed him in revenge for such s\ipposcd injury, he would be liable to punish- ment. This statement of the law given by the iMiglish judges has not commended itself to medical men. As a test of responsibility it appears to be vitiated (as Dr. Maudsley points out) by the assumption that a man, having an insane delusion, has the power to think and act in regard to it reasonably; that at the time of the offence he ouglit to have and to exercise the knowledge and self-control which a sane man would, were the facts with respect to which the delusion exists real. It, however, stands as authoritative in the law of England ; but, for- tmiately, it has not been very logically applied in actual cases. Its corrective is probably supplied by the more general rule of reference in each case to the accused's knowledge of right and wrong in regard to the particular act. In Scotland, on the other hand, it has been judicially recognised that a man may be en- tirely insane, and yet may know Avell enough that an act which he is doing is forbidden by the law of the land. If a man have not a sane mind to apply his knowledge, the mere intellectual apprehension of an injunction or pr(.)hibition may stimulate his mind to do an act simply becatise it is forbidden, or not to do it because it is enjoined (Lord Moncreiff in case of Miller, 1874, 3 Couper's Reports, 16). The " Rules in MacNaughton's Case " do not deal with the sttbject of moral insanity. For long the Courts rigidly refused to recognise such form of mental derangement. But moral insanity (meaning by that term mental de- rangement in which disorder of the moral faculties is more pronounced than disorder of the intellecttial) is now undoubtedly accepted in the British Courts as freeing from responsibility or mitigating punishment according to the circumstances of the case. Further, rveahness of mind of a lesser degree, not such as to free entirely from responsibility, is lield either to warrant leniency in punishment, or, it luay be, to jitstify a verdict of something less than the full crime charged, e.g. of manslaughter or culpaV)le homicide instead of mtirder. If insanity be proved, the question of re- sponsibility is not affected by a consideration of what was the cause of the disorder. The fact tliat it was occasioned by acctised's own acts (drunkenness or other excess) is not of con- seqtience. Intoxication does not free from responsil)ility ; insanity brought on by drunk- enness will. When a person killed another under a " momentary hallucination induced by drunkenness," it was laid down in a Scottish case that the jury might acquit of murder and convict of the minor crime of culpable homicide (Robertson or Brown, 1886, 1 White's liejjorts, 93). Presently existing insanity may bar criminal proceedings, before, at, or after trial. In such a case it is, of course, the jij?'eseni mental con- dition of the accused that the medical witness nmst speak to; and therefore an examination of accused ought to lie made as shortly as practicable before the inquiry—on the same day, if possible. In Scotland, where insanity is pleaded in bar of trial, the facts to be estab- lished (before a judge without a jtiry) are that the accused is presently insane, and incapaljle of giving intelligent instructions for his defence. CriminolOg^y. — The scientific study of the physical and psychical characters of criminals; criminal anthropology. See Abor- tion {M&liro-Legal Aspects); Anthropology ; ANTHRoroMETRY j Bertillonage ; Medicine, Forensic {Identity) ; Medicine, Forensic {Criminal Aliortion). Crisis.—A paroxysm (if pain (gastric, hepa- tic, nephritic, etc.) occurring during the pro- gress of locomotor ataxia, or a sudden change in the course of life (e.//. at puberty or at the menopause), or during the advance of a disease