BURS^, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 42 vegetation-like bodies which are wart-like in appearance, sessile or pedunculated, and com- posed of fibrous tissue infiltrated with cartilage, and sometimes with uric acid or phosphate of lime. The fibrous hygroma is met with, especially in front of the knee, as a firm, in- durated mass, in the centre of which is found a little fluid. The hsemorrhagic hygroma is either the result of traumatism, or the blood may be spontaneously effused. The fluid in the cavity is thick and black, or may consist almost entirely of clotted blood. Volkmann has described a parallel condition in joints as " pachysynovitis hfemorrhagica." The symptoms of chronic bursitis are not difficult of recognition. In an appropriate situation a small roimded or flattened tumour commences which is indolent, nearly painless, fluctuating, and on pressure may be rolled luider the hand, giving a feeling of fine crepita- tion. A fibrous hygroma is from the first hard and unyielding in character, while a htemorrhagic hygroma has very few distinguishing character- istics. The course of a hygroma is chronic. It may disappear entirely, or it may luidergo pro- gressive sclerosis and contraction of its walls. The chronically enlarged bursa is exposed to rupture, hfemorrhagic effusion, and suppuration. If it be subcutaneously ruptured the fluid is absorbed by the tissues, but the bursa reappears. Treatment. — There are practically two methods of treatment — obliteration and ex- cision of the sac. In the early stages of chronic bursitis, if the irritating cause be removed, the bursa will often subside, only to reappear when the cause is at work again. Counter-irritants are sometimes of temporary service. The means adopted for oljliteration of the sac are incision, and the application of nearly pure carbolic acid, or simple incision and stuffing the cavity with gauze, so permitting it to granulate up entirely. But in all forms of chronic bursitis of long standing, especially the proliferating and fibrous, complete removal of the sac is necessary. (e) Gouty, Gonorrhoeal, and Rheumatic Bursitis. —Allusion has already been made to the deposit of urate of soda in the walls of burste, and if the subject be affected with well-marked gout, this salt is often deposited continiiously over the whole interior of the sac and in its walls. The bursse most frequently affected are the olecranon, patellar, and the subcutaneous bursae of the hands and feet. In gonorrhoea and acute rheu- matism the bursse in the neighbourhood of an inflamed joint often sympathise acutely. In the early stages a dry hygroma is present, which is painful and finely crepitating to the touch, but serous effusion sets in to a varying degree, and the bursa swells somewhat. Its symptoms then approach those of the serous variety of acute bursitis. The diagnosis is made and treatment carried out by recognising the associated con- ditions. (d) Tuherculou,s Bursitis.—This was formerly thought to be rare, but many cases which were published under the title of fungous disease of the bursae are now recognised as tuberculous bursitis. The sites of the affection are the ole- cranon, sub-deltoid, sub-ischiatic, pre- and infra- patellar, malleolar, psoas and popliteal bursse. Two varieties of tuberculous bursitis are met with, the primary and the secondary. Of the existence of the former there can be no doubt, and all conditions are present in bursse for the development of tubercle in suitable subjects, such conditions being—exposure to injury, abundant fibrous tissue, and the peculiar synovial character of the lining wall of the sac. Secondary bursitis is distinguished from primary by its being associated with tubercle of the neighbour- ing joint. It is not essential that there should be any direct communication between the synovial membranes of the bursa and joint. Pathologically three forms are recognisable— fungous hygroma, hygroma with rice-grain bodies, and myxomatous or mucoid hygroma. Of these the fungous hygroma is most common in type. At first the cyst is simply serous and its wall is not thickened, but it soon becomes covered by small tubercles. This stage often escapes observation, but later granulation tissue forms and caseates, and pus is seen, so that the general appearance of the cavity is like that of tuberculous synovitis. It is probably a slow form of tubercle which affects bursaj, as the results of inoculation of animals take a long time to appear. In the rice-grain-bodied form of hygroma there is but little fluid. A large number of these curious bodies is present, and that they are truly tuberculous is shown by the results of inoculation (Nicaise, Revue de chir. 1885). This form of tuberculous bursitis is fre- quently met with in the large palmar bursa, and used to be known as "compound ganglion." The mucoid form of tuberculous hygroma has been described byCritzmann {Medecinemoderne, 1890, p. 638). There is found a cyst filled with gela- tiniform material, translucent and red or yellow in colour. The nature of this material has been conclusively proved by inoculation. The symp- toms are those of a slow chronic swelling, often thick-walled and giving the impression of a solid bursa as the fluctuation is obscured. In the rice-grain form fine crepitations are present.. Unlike other bursse, the more tuberculous a bursa grows, the softer and more semi-fluctuating does it become. This is a diagnostic sign of great importance. Eventiially a fistula forms, but before that has occurred, extension has taken place to bones and joints. The only per- missible treatment is extirpation. (e) Syphilitic Bursitis.—It is met with in the secondary stage of syphilis, and as the subacute serous form, and in the tertiary stage as the fibroid variety which becomes gummatous. The latter variety may occur as long as twenty years