CREMORA 249 C re m O ra. —Pharmaceutical preparations (for external use) containing glycerine or vaseline as a basis ; creams (Latin, cremor, milk), such as Ha-.eiim Cream (E. W. and Co.). Creolin.—A dark syrupy liquid, obtained from the dry distillation of coal, consisting largely of coal tar, fatty acids, and resins, and forming a white emulsion witii water; it is germicidal and is therefore used as an antiseptic ; it is contained in Jeyes' disinfectant. CreOSOta.1.—Carbonate of creosote, an oil sometimes used in place of creosote and in the same dose ; it is not so likely to produce indi- gestion. See Creosote. Creosote. See Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Treatinclit, Creosote) ; LuNG, Tuberculosis {Treatment, Creosote and its Congeners); Phar- macology ; Prescribing ; Toxicology (Organic Poisons, Creosote).—Creosotum (Gr. Kpias, flesh, and fTM^eiv, to preserve) or creosote is an oily liquid, witli a peculiar smell, obtained by the distillation of wood tar {Fix Li.ijuida), and consists of a mixture of creosol (CgHj^iO,,), cresol (C-HgO), oxycresol, methijlcresol, gtiaiarol (C-HgO.,), etc. (Creosote from coal tar difters from the above in certain particulars.) Creosote is incompatible with oxide of silver, forming with it an exjilosive mixture. The dose of creosote is 1 to 5 m., and the drug is best given suspended in mucilage, as a pill, or in capsules (diluted with almond oil). The official prepara- tions are the Mistura Creosoti (dose, i to 1 fl. oz.) and the UnguentHin Creosoti. The drug is useful in obstinate vomiting, in some forms of <liarrhu}a, in typhoid fever, and in fermentative dyspepsia, acting as an antiseptic; it is also slightly anresthetic and styptic, and has been commonly used in toothache (cotton-wool plug soaked in it being applied to the tooth). Of late years it has been much lauded as a remedy in phthisis and Vn'onchiectasis, as an inlialation. Crepitus. — The grating or crackling sovnid or feeling produced when the ends of a fractured bone are rubbed together (during manipulation). Crepitant rales are the crack- ling sounds heard over the lungs in pneumonia. See Fractures {Methods of Examination) ; Pneumonia, Clinical (I'/u/xira/ Signs). Crescent Bodies. See Malaria {Mala rial Pa rasiti ). Cresol.—Tolyl alcohol (C-H-OH), one of the hydroxytoluenes, found in tlu'ee isomeric forms (orthocresol, metacresol, and paracresol). Cresolsulphonic acid (C,.H^(.S0.5H)CH.,) is formed from it by the substitution of the molecule 80.,(^H for hydrogen. Crest. — A ridge or crest or ridge-like structure, such as the crest of the ilium or of the tibia. Cresyi. — The radicle of cresol (C-H-) or methyl - phenyl. Cresol is regarded as cresylic acid; cresyi alcohol has the formula C„H,(0H)CH3. Creta.. See Calcium and its Salts. Cretan Fever. See Unuulant Feveil Cretinism. Etiology 249 Descru'TIon .... . 2-50 Diagnosis ...... 250 MoRRii) Anatomy ..... 2-51 Treatment ...... 251 Result of Treatment . . . .251 See also Head {in Cretinism); Insanity, Etiology of {Etiological Varieties) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Thryoidectomy); Mental Deficiency {Cretinoid Cases); Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Morbid Somnolence in Cretins). Definition.—Cretinism (congenital myxaxlema) is the peculiar condition of arrested l)odily and mental growth and development, witli in- creasing deformity and debility, which re.-sults from a congenital deficiency of thyroid secretion due either to ab.sence of the gland or to some morbid change interfering with its function. Tiie name is also generally, and perhaps con- veniently, applied to the cases where defective action of the thyroid begins in early childhood (juvenile myxcedema). Causation. — Tliat the essential cause of cretinism is deficiency of the tliyroid secretion is now an accepted fact. The morbid influences, however, which lead to disease or atroj^hy of the thyroid gland, and thus aboli.sh its secretion, are still to a large extent unknown. They are probably different in the endemic and sporadic forms of the disease. Endemic cretinism is generally met with in mountainous districts. It is always associated in distribution with endemic goitre, and a large proportion of deaf and dumb children are found in the same districts and families. The cause of these three conditions is evidently the same, and is known to be present in the drinking water. It is, in all proljability, a micro-organism (Kocher), although this has not yet been ab- solutely proved. All inquiries into the primary cause of sporadic cretinism have hitherto had only negative results. The disease very often occurs in large and other- wise healthy families. Two or more cases are, however, sometimes found in one family, and it is also not very uncommon for cases of infantilism, achondroplasia, and other forms of dwarfing to be present among the brothers and sisters. In cases of juvenile myxoedema there is often a history of one of the infectious diseases having occurred shortly before the symptoms were noticed. Distribution.—Endemic cretinism is almost