i-:aii: acute inflammation of the middle ear 487 including high fever, restlessness, vomiting, and even convulsions, before the ear is placed under suspicion. Hartmann has shown that otitis media in infants is often associated with in- testinal disturbances, as indicated by dysjaepsia and wasting, and that after paracentesis of the membrane the temperature falls, the disturbance in the digestive organs disappears, and an in- crease of weight follows. In any infant where there are symptoms of restless discomfort, screaming, feverishness, etc., without evident cause for the same, it is well to make a careful examination of the ears for the presence of a possible otitis. The severity of the constitutional symptoms is probably in part due to anatomical peculiarities in the middle ear in the child, such as the I'elatively greater size and thickness of the membrane and the incomplete development of the bony parts of the middle ear. Measles and scarlet fever produce such a large number of cases of otitis that it is necessary to be on the look-out for early signs of ear trouble, and by early attention to the throat and nose to try and lessen the risk of middle ear affections. It should be remembered that some authorities consider the discharge from the middle ear in a case of scarlatina as highly infectious. It is not clear, however, how long the discharge may be a source of danger to others. Prognosis.—In estimating the prospects of a patient suffering from acute middle ear catarrh we must remember that the disease may affect the fmiction of the organ, or may produce complications which may endanger the patient's health or even his life. It seldom happens that acute otitis leads directly to a fatal result, but the hearing power is often more or less per- manently impaired. In the mild catarrhal tj'pes complete recovery is usually to be expected, but in the acute purulent attacks the intensity of the symptoms will generally bear some relation to the course and effects of the disease. Swelling and pain over the mastoid, continuance of the pain, and fever, with copious discharge, make it probable that the case will be a protracted one, while rapid subsidence of the fever and other symptoms after perforation may be viewed in a favourable light. Needless to say, a patient in a robust condition of health is likely to make a quicker and more satisfactory recovery than one who is the subject of tuberculosis, syphilis, or general debility. The position and size of the jjerfora- tion will sometimes influence the course of the attack, for a very small perforation, or one situated high up, or in ShrapneUs membrane, may cause the retention of discharge instead of allowing it to pass freely away. While necrosis and mastoid abscess serioush' j^i'otract the illness and call for prompt measures, in acute cases they are much more amenable to successful operative treatment than chronic cases. Mild attacks of short duration, often spoken of as "earache," are not infrequently viewed as being too trivial to require any special attention. While they may recover completely without any after effects, it should be remembered that not a few cases of auditory defects discovered in later life can be traced back to former apparently trifling and neglected attacks of otitis. Repeated attacks of earache, however slight, are likely sooner or later to cause damage to the ear, and therefore their cause should be investigated without delay. It is always well to give a guarded prognosis at first as to the hearing power. If there is very marked deafness, and if there is great de- struction of the drum and detachment of the ossicles, or if the labyrinth appears to be second- arily affected, there is likely to be more or less permanent interference with the function of the organ. If improvement commences soon after the cessation of the inflammation, and if this is increased by inflation of the tympanum, a favour- able result may be predicted with some amount of confidence. Treatment.—The remedies to be employed will depend to some extent on the sevei'ity of the symptoms and on the stage which the disease has reached before it comes mider obser- vation. The objects to be kept in view are to cure the local aff'ection, to diminish the acute- ness of the inflammatory process, to prevent complications, and to remove as far as possible the cause of the attack. Confinement to the house and to a warm room is always advisable, and if his temperature is much above normal the patient should also be kept in bed. The food should be light and non-stimulating, and alcohol and tobacco must be interdicted. The state of the bowels should be inquired into, and it is a good rule to com- mence the treatment with a small dose of calomel or grey powder, to be followed by a saline purge in the morning. In children, if the skin is hot and dry, a warm bath and a simple diaphoretic mixture may be ordered, while in cases where there is great restlessness or loss of sleep it may be necessary to give bromide or Dover's powder. In the mild catarrhal stage these remedies may be all that is required, but if the case proves more severe it will next be necessary to adopt some measures for the relief of pain. For this purpose two or three leeches may be applied over the ti'agus and the mastoid process, or cold may be applied by means of an ice-bag or a Leiter's coil. Most frequently, however, warmth will be found more comforting to the patient than cold, and it should be used in the form of dry heat—flannel, cotton-wool, or the old-fashioned hot salt-bag,-—while poultices and moist applica- tions should be avoided. A few drops of chloro- form on cotton-wool, or of some aseptic solution containing a local anaesthetic, may be tried with