VOL. II V a 2 EDITORIAL NOTE This volume carries the subject-matter of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine from Bre to Ear ; and the same features which characterised the first volume are present in it. In all it contains 1758 subject-headings, and these are distributed in the follow^iug manner. There are eighty articles of more than 1000 v^'ords in length; these include noteworthy contributions to the subjects of Broncliitis, Bronchiectasis, Burns, Bursa', Catarctct, Chest, Chikl, Chlorosis, Cholera, Chorea, Choroid, Climate, Colon, Colour Vision, Conjunctiva, Convulsions, Cornea, Cretinism, Curettage, CystoscoiJC, Deafmutism, Deformities, Dermatitis, Diahetcs, Diet, Digestion, Digitalis, Diphtheria, Drug Eriiptions, Dysentery, and Ear. New articles on such recent developments of medical diagnosis and treatment as Cryoscopy, Cytodiagnosis, and Dechlorination have been added ; and Dermatitis Traumatica et Vcncnatec in Coal-Miners is dealt with in a special contribution. Then, there are two hundred articles of less than 1000 words, but of more than 10 lines (from 80 to 900 words) in length; these deal with a great variety of interest- ing subjects, such as Bromism, Bruit, Burial-Places, Calcium, Calcification, Canal Boats, Carbolic Acid, Census, Chloroma, Climacteric, Cloudy Swelling, Coccygodynia, Colics' Law, Colporrhaphy, Coma Vigil, Consanejuinity, Cremation, Cyclopia, Dactylolysis, Decline of the Birth-Ilatc, Diazo-Eeaction, Dromotlierapy, etc., etc. Finally, there are 1478 short articles and headings, varying in length from 10 lines to a few words. Most of these are of the nature of definitions, while others are references which serve as definitions. I have given special attention to this, the dictioimrial, part of the work, and have endeavoured to include all the terms in everyday use in Medicine at the present time ; in response to a number of requests from readers of the Encyclopedia I have, in some cases in which there seemed to be a necessity for it, added the derivation of the less familiar words, although of course the teaching of etymology is not the function of this series of volumes. I may again be permitted to draw the reader's attention to the value of the cross- references, which are very numerous and, I tn^st, quite exact. If he will, for instance, turn up such a word as Diabetes (on page 319), or Cerebrum (on page 80), or Colic (on page 174), and simply read over the cross-references under these entries, he will find his memory refreshed on many matters relating to these subjects, and may even discover what he wanted to know without actually referring to any one of the articles quoted. Again, under the heading Disease (on page 404) will be found a list of nearly one