CORNEA Ker;ito-iualaci;i appears in ]-CngliUul mostly in hand-reared infante badly nourished in conse- quence of unsuitable food or of prolonged diarrhoea. Poorness or insufficiency of milk, the use of condensed milk from which the cream has been separated, the use of patent starch foods in the place of pure milk, are among the most common causes, but it may occur in hand-reared infants in the feeding of whom the nutritive value of the milk has been impaired by pro- longed or repeated boiling being carried out with the laudable desire of rendering it sterile. One is reminded of the experiment of Majendie, who fed a well-nourished dog on nothing but pure white sugar and water, with the result of producing a central ulcer of the cornea. Severe exhaustion after acute fevers or pneumonia is a predisposing cause, and is often seen in the late stages of mild ophtlialmia neonatorum in babies suffering from congenital syphilis. In coiuitries where religious fasting is strictly observed it also occurs iu breast-fed children. Treatment, l)oth local and general, should be directed towards improvement in nutrition. Warmth by compresses and hot fomentations frequently applied; the local use of eserine in the form of an ointment, one grain to the ounce three times a day, are the best local measures ; while general ti-eatnient should be in the direction of securing proper food, milk diluted according to age, cream or cod-liver oil, and meat juice, and the diarrhcea should be com- bated. Ulceration of the Cornea from Exposure.— When the cornea is exposed to the air it becomes rapidly dry, and if not moistened by tears its surface is destroyed and a way provided for the entrance of organisms. This condition is produced by cicatrisation and contraction of the lids from old injury or disease ; it occurs in facial paralysis when the lower lid no longer keeps in position ; also in the extreme protrusion of the eye sometimes met with in exophthalmic goitre, and in orbital tumours. It is also seen during the condition of apathy in patients suiTering from exhausting disease. Treatment.—The eye should be closed tempo- rarily by a piece of strapping, but if the exposure is likely to be permanent, the edges of the lids may be pared and stitched together for a certain distance. Nevro-Paralytkj Keratitis.—When the fifth nerve is paralysed the cornea becomes antcsthetic and is readily exposed to injury ; foreign l)odies are not swept away, and the surface is no longer kept moist by the movements of the lids induced by the sensations of the cornea. The epithelium becomes cast off' from a portion of the surface, and an idcer is formed ; this form of ulceration runs a very chronic course, and is little affected by treatment ; infection may take place, and the eye may be lost. The changes have been described as beginning interstitially without loss of epithelium. It is held by many that the jiaralysis of the fifth nerve is associated with a trophic disturb- ance in the cornea, and although the results of section of tlie fifth nerve on the nutrition of the cornea tend to show that if the cornea be pro- tected such section has n(j influence on it, yet if we take the analogy of other parts, e.f/. the glossy skin which occurs in paralysis of sensory nerves, it is highly jjrobable that the fifth nerve does exert an influence on the nutri- tion of the cornea. Clinical evidence is in favour of this view. The treatment is that of ulcerative keratitis, especial care being taken to secure protection of the eye. Interstitial or I'AKKNruYMATOUs Keratitis. —In this disease the deeper layers of the cornea are attacked by chronic inflannnation with the formation of opacities and with the development of blood-vessels. The changes in the cornea show a tendency to clear up for months after the inflammatory symptoms have subsided ; there is no tendency to idceration or suppura- tion. The appearance of the changes iu the cornea is preceded by circumcorneal congestion, lachryma- tion, and intolerance of light; an examination of the eye is made difficult l)y spasm of the lids, hence in many of the worst cases it is not possible to say what is the exact condition of the cornea. The changes show themselves in many forms, but the most common mode of onset is the appearance at the periphery of the cornea in one spot of a group of maculaj deep in the corneal substance; the epithelium covering them becomes swollen and loses its lustre, so that the macuhe are only seen dimly. At the same time the vessels of the limbus lieconie much enlarged at this spot, and the limbus itself is swollen and encroaches somewhat on the surface of the cornea in the form of a vascular crescent; this encroachment does not exceed certain narrow limits. At the same time, there is an ingrowth into the corneal substance of vessels coming from the deeper layer of the sclerotic, appearing lieneath the limbus and having no connection with its vessels. These are long and thin, and are iu the substance of the cornea; they have the appearance of long tufts, and have been likened to the fibres of a besom ; they gradually force their way into the substance of the cornea, the area of macuhe still extending in front of them towards the centre ; sometimes the process starts from two opposite sides of the cornea, the skirmishing line of macula; advancing towards the centre till they meet those coming from the otiier side. In another group of cases, instead of starting peripherally from one or two points, the macula; make their appearance towards the centre of the cornea, where they become con-