351 DIET PENDiciTis(7Vea<»ie«<); Beki-Beiu (C'awA-e); Con- stipation {Treatment, Diet); Diabetes Meli.itus {Treatment, Dietetic); Gastro-Intestinal Dis- orders OF Infancy {Infantile Diarrh(jea, Treat- ment); GASTRO-lNTESTINALDlSORDEliS OF INFANCY {Constipation, Treatment); Gout {Dietetic Treat- ment) ; Heart, Myocardium and EndocardiujM {Treatment, Diet); Indigestion ; Infant Feed- ing ; Invalid Feeding; Liver {Congestio7i, Treat- ment) ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {TJm-apentic, Dietary); Nursery Hygiene {Diets); Obesity {Treatment); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Diet and Dietetics); Pregnancy, Management {Diet); PuBRPERiUM, Physiology {Diet); Puer- periuji. Pathology {Septiccemia, Diet); Scurvy, Infantile {Etiolo;/!/, Treatment); Sprue {Treat- ment, Dietetic); Stomach and Duodenuji, Dis- eases op {General Etiology, Errors in Diet) ; Typhoid Fever {Treatment, Diet); Undulant Fever {Treatment, Diet). A Food may Itc detiiied as anjtliing wliicli, when taken into the body, is able either (1) to build up or rejjair tissues, or (2) to supply material for the production of heat or muscular woi'lv. A true food nuist tlicreforc be either a tissue- builder or a source of potential energy. Dietetic substances which are unable to fulfil either of these functions may have important actions on the body, but cainiot be regaixled as foods in the true sense of the term. Such substances are tea, coffee, and the extractives of meat. The Nutritive Constituents of foods may be arranged thus :— Organic— fProteids, e.g. myosin of meat. Nitrogenous -! casein of milk. \ Albuminoids, e.g. gelatine. ( Carbohydrates, e.g. sugars and Non-Nitrogenous -j starch. Fats, e.g. butter. Inorganic— Water. Mineral matters, e.g. sodium, potassium ; calcium and magnesium ; iron ; plios[ihorus, chlorine, sulphur. The functions of food as building material, fuel, and a supplier of energy, are fulfilled by these different groups of nutritive constituents in varying measiu'e. Buildinrj material is supplied by tlie proteids, water, and mineral matters, and by these alone. Fats, carbohydrates, and albuminoids are unable to form tissue. Seeing that tliere is always a certain amount of waste of bodily structure going on there is a constant demand for these materials in the diet. Without tliem, or any one of them, life is impossible. All the organic nutritive constituents of food serve as sources of heat. They are able to do so in virtue of their capability of undergoing oxidation in the tissues and organs. Fat requires the greatest amount of oxidation, and is there- fore the most potent fuel food. Proteids, carbo- hydrates, and albuminoids are about equal as heat ])roducers, but are scarcely of half as much value as fats. The standard of heat production is the Calorie, which means the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one kilo, of water 1° Cent. It has been found by experiment that— 1 gramme of proteid fidly oxidised iiroduccs 4-1 Cals. ,, ,, carbohydrate ,, ,, 4'1 ,, fat ,, ,, 9-:j ,, It is no doubt owing to tlieir great value as heat producers tliat fats find sucii a large place in the dietary of the inhabitants of very cold climates, e.g. the Esquimaux. The presence of 40 per cent of fat in tlie milk of the walrus is an instance of a similar adaptation on the part of Nature. As raw material for the jjroduction of muscular energy the carbohydrates are now admitted to rank first. It seems certain, however, that the proteids can either directly or indirectly serve a similar function, and probably the fats are able to do so too. Whether tlie albuminoids are able to fill a similar role is uncertain. The great utility of sugar especially, as a muscle food, has recently been insisted upon by many observers, and its value is confirmed from such diverse sources as laboratory experiments with the ergograph, the efficiency of troops on the march, and the experience of Alpine climbers. It will probably win for itself a larger place than it has as yet taken in the dietary of ti'aining. Notwithstanding this outcome of modern re- search the necessity of a liberal supply of proteid in the diet of those who have to per- form severe muscular .work must not be lost sight of. Strenuous muscular exertion is always accompanied, sooner or later, by an increased excretion of urea. Whether one regards this as arising from the utilisation of proteid as a source of energy, or ascribes it simply to tlic destruction of muscle fibi-e which severe work necessarily entails, tlie loss still requires to be made good. That is the physiological justifica- tion for the high opinion which trainers have always entertained of a richly proteid diet for those engaged in athletic contests. It is evident that the proteids are, by them- selves, capable of fulfilling all the demands upon a complete food. They are able to buikl and repair the tissues of tlie body, to supply it with heat, and provide the muscles with pabulum for their woi'k. It is this physiological omni- potence which gives to the proteids that pre- eminence which they possess amongst the nutritive constituents of food, and thanks to it, life can be maintained on a diet of lean meat and water, as in the Salisbury cure, for a practically indefinite time. The Amount of Food required in Health. —An idea of the quantity of food required daily in order to maintain the body in a state of health can be arrived at either by a physio- logical or an empirical method. The former is