447 DYSENTERY leading symptoms are those of gangrene of the rectum with dilatation of the sphincter ani. The disease is generally limited to the rectum, ljut it occasionally attacks the triuisverse colon primarily ; hence a distinction is made between the " high " and " low " forms. In other in- stances the disease beginning in the rectinn afterwards involves the whole of the large intestine. Diagnosis.—In simple and ulcerative colitis the stools contain blood and mucus, and in the ulcerative form, pus and sloughs are present, and liver abscess may develop. The chief points of distinction are that in colitis we do not have the serous stools like washings of meat, nor the same constant desire to go to stool, nor the severe tormina and tenesmus generally met with in dysentery. Rectitis dili'ers from dysentery in this, that although there are frequent stools of a dysenteric kind, with tenesmus, the patient passes healthy motions daily or every other day, according to his habit. Bilharzia disease of the sigmoid flexure and rectum simulates subacute and clii'onic dysen- tery. An examination of the stools, and of the mucosities detached from the Bilharzia infarc- tions of the bowel, for the eggs of the parasite, will reveal the true nature of the disease. The diagnosis of the amoebic form will depend on the discovery of the amoebte in the mucus, the gelatinous necrotic masses, and the fjEces. The stools should be kept at the tem- perature of the l:>lood from the time they are passed until the examination is finished. The diagnosis of the accidents arising during dysentery seldom present much difficulty. In- vagination of the bowel occasionally occurs during the course of dysentery and diarrhoea in children. The sudden change in the condition of the patient, the supervention of vomiting, at first of the contents of the stomach, and finally of feculent matter, the tympanitic state of the abdomen, pain on pressure at the site of the invagination, without generalised tenderness, indicate the nature of the accident. The symptoms of jo'^'/oj-a^to?;- are those of acute generalised peritonitis, and cannot be overlooked or mistaken. Acute limited jxritonitis resulting from inflammation of the serous coat of the bowel, consequent on an ulcer penetrating to oi" below the muscular coat, gives rise in many cases to more or less generalised abdominal pain, but the tenderness is limited to the part in which the disease is seated. The abdomen is not tympanitic, and the constitu- tional symptoms of perforation or invagination are absent. Mortality axd Prognosis. — The case mortality in the army of India, which was about 11 per cent in the ten years ending 1857, fell to 3'3 per cent in the five years 1871-75. A corresponding decrease has taken place in the French army. In war times, not only does the number of cases increase, but also their fatality. In the German military practice daring the war of 1870-71 the case mortality was 6 per cent. The marked decrease in the case mortality of dysentery during the last half-century is in part, no doubt, the residt of improved methods of treatment, but to a much larger extent it is the effect of improved hygiene, which has at once lessened the prevalence and the severity of the disease. The army returns include many cases of the mildest forms of the disease that arc dysentery in little else than the name. A more just idea of the gravity of the disease is to be gathered from the mortality in cases of sufficient gravity to require admission into civil hospitals. In the Calcutta Hospital (1879) the ratio of deaths to admissions was 22-2 ; in Mauritius (1888) it was 227 per cent. The prognosis must always be guarded, as the mildest cases are liable to undergo un- expected aggTavations, and this is especially true of amoebic dysentery. In epidemic dysen- tery the type of the outbreak has also to be taken into account, as some epidemics are much more fatal than others. The passage of the disease from the mucous to the serous stage, notwithstanding early and efficient treatment, renders the prognosis more grave. The im- mediate danger is increased, and the risk of the disease becoming chronic is greater. The prognostic significance of sloughs in the stools depends not only on their number, size, and thickness, but also very much upon the way in which the patient supports the disease. When the stools present a gangrenous odour and the patient is prostrate, the prognosis is grave even if there are no sloughs in the stools. Typhoid symptoms, or a tendency to collapse, are ominous, and all the more so if hiccup is conjoined with these symptoms. In forming a judgment respecting the probable issue of a case of chronic dysentery we have to take into consideration not only the severity of the symptoms, the duration of the disease, its effect on the patient's health, the presence or absence of contractions and adhesions interfering with the functions of the bowel, but we must also take into account the ability of the patient to obtain change of climate, rest, and care, and his readiness to submit to those restrictions in respect to diet and modes of life upon which the success of treatment largely depends. Prophylaxis.—The methods now being tried of producing an immunity by the use of pro- phylactic serum are as yet outside the sphere of practical medicine, and our cliief hope will probably always lie in obviating the predisposing and exciting causes of the disease. The recog- nition of the infectious nature of dysentery lies at the root of its prophylaxis. Dysenteric stools should be disinfected, and either deeply buried