COLON, DISEASES OF 182 pain ; it is often the first symptom noticed, and these two symptoms are never absent through- out the whole of a case. The frequency with which the bowels are open commonly varies between two and about a dozen times in the twenty-four hours. Although the act of defteca- tion is often accompanied by abdominal pain, there is rarely the intense tenesmus character- istic of dysentery, nor have I heard of a patient complaining of that almost constant desire to go to stool which is so frequent in a severe dys- enteric attack. If the case is mild an occasional solid motion may be passed, but the evacuations are nearly always fluid, dark, foul-smelling, and of a consistency varying between that of slime and water. So far as my experience goes, they never resemble ordinary dysenteric or choleraic stools; indeed I think they are so unlike that the distinction is probably of some diagnostic value. But it is only right to add that some of those whose work lies chiefly in asylums regard the ulcerative colitis they see as a variety of dysentery. Blood is commonly present, some- times in considerable quantities, so that the patient describes the motions as being like red currant jelly, sometimes only in traces. It is more often fluid than solid, and is usually bright red, showing that the bleeding has been recent. Commonly it is passed with the motion, although not intimately mixed with it. The clots may be of such a shape as to suggest that they have recently come from the floor of an ulcer. When diarrhoea is present very little ffecal matter is seen in the motions, and what there is consists of a few small lumps scattered about in the fluid. In some cases a little mucus has been observed, but it is never present in large (]uantities. Often shreddy masses looking very like sloughs are seen; luider the microscope they are generally structureless; probably their structure has been destroj'ed by the action of the contents of the large intestine. Soon other symptoms are superadded to the pain and diarrhoea. The most frequent of these, and one of the earliest, is vomiting. Often the patients say that they have been vomiting inces- santly, but under careful dieting and rest in bed this usually subsides. Occasionally it is entirely absent; it bears no relationship to the intensity of the ulceration. Thirst, probably due in part to the vomiting and diarrhoea, may be very troublesome. Nausea, either with or without vomiting, may be complained of. The tongue is usuall}^ covered with a dirty white fur; but as the disease progresses, it becomes red and dry Avith a brown fur. If the patient be seriously ill, his face has the drawn expression character- istic of abdominal disease. The abdomen is commonly distended, and peristaltic movements may be visible. A rectal examination should never be omitted, for it may be possible to feel the ulceration, and also to determine whether malignant disease is present. The general symptoms are such as would naturally be expected. The patient gradually becomes wasted, anaemic, and excessively weak, so that he lies in bed looking bloodless, sallow, and extremely ill. The pulse is feeble, and haemic murmurs may be heard. Irregular pyrexia is often present, the temperature rang- ing between 100° and 102°, but if the patient be very collapsed it may be subnormal; on the other hand, I have known it as high as 104°. Towards the end of the patient's life he sinks into the typhoid state. The cause of death is usually exhaustion, and in some cases it is dis- tinctly accelerated by haemorrhage. Occasionally perforation kills. It is noteworthy that, although ulcerative colitis is frequently associated with granular kidneys, sufferers from it do not often show signs of urtemia. Prog7iosis. — This is very grave — so grave, indeed, that when patients appear to recover from it, it is quite an open question whether the diagnosis was correct; still, sometimes patients with every symptom of ulcerative colitis do get well. The patient is usually dead in eight weeks from the commencement of the illness. The symptoms which especially indicate a speedy termination are great tympanites, much loss of blood, very profuse diarrhoea, and occasionally a high temperature. Some observers state that it is the cause of death of a third of the patients in asylums. Diagnosis. — I think there is little doubt that ulcerative colitis is a distinct disease from dysentery, but the matter cannot be absolutely settled while our knowledge of the bacteriology of the two diseases is so imperfect. Ulcerative colitis does not attack all ages; the bowels are never open 50 or 100 times a day; there is no severe tenesmus; the motions are not dji^senteric, vomiting is common, and Bright's disease is often present. In England the two diseases are not likely to be confounded, for acute dys- entery is not common, and chronic dysentery is too long-lasting to be confounded with ulcerative colitis. In actual practice the difficulty of dia- gnosis is usually to separate ulcerative colitis from malignant disease of the large intestine, from intestinal obstruction, and from some form of primary ancemia, but a mistake is usually due rather to a faulty examination of the patient than to any real difficulty. Morbid Anatomy.—Any part of the large intestine may be affected, and generally the ulceration has no special distribution. In an extreme case the muscular coat is exposed, the floor of the ulcers can be seen distinctly to con- sist of bundles of muscular fibres, and the ulcera- tion is so extensive that only islets of mucous membrane are left here and there; often they are considerably swollen, and consequently they look taller than they otherwise would ; and fre- quently they are more or less stalked because of the ulceration which undermines them. The