BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS 17 in his description of this type of Ijrunchitis, states that, " as long as the strength permits, tlie patient sits or bends forwards; but the body gradually yields, and it is not uncommon to find patients, while still perfectly conscious, lying sideways or forwards, with the head lower than the shoulders, and in rare cases this posture of the head is adopted from the very outset." PiiYsivAL Siam. — The chest may not be altered in shape in mild cases, but in pro- nounced attacks assumes the inspiratory type ; it remains more or less fully expanded, the respiratory movements Ijcing elevatoiy I'ather than attended with expansion and contraction of the parietes, and are violent, and increased in frequency, though not in amplitude. The abdominal movements are increased, and if the broncliial tubes ai'e extensively involved, there will be marked cyanosis and fulness of the large veins of the neck. The right side of the heart dilates, giving rise to epigastric pulsation; or the heart may be pushed down, the impulse being felt in the left costal angle. The liver is often congested and displaced downward. But in the acute asphyxiating type, as has already been stated, the respiratory movements of the over-distended chest are increasingly shallow, and the heart's action is apt to fail rapidly, with mai'ked cyanosis, clammy perspiration, coldness of the skin, general anasarca, and scant}^ all)U- minous urine. The adventitious sounds which arise in bron- chitis are of two kinds—the dry (rhonchus and sibilus) and the moist (rales). Rhonchus, or sonorous rhonchus, is a loud, deep-toned, cooing sound, due to air passing through one of the larger tubes which is partly obstructed by a collection of mucus, producing a veine jluide. The mucus can often be removed by the patient coughing, hence rhonchus audible at one moment may abruptly disappear. Sibilant rhonchi, or sibilus, is a more high-pitched whistling sound, due to swelling of the mucosa in the small bronchi; hence they are of graver importance, and as they cannot be dispelled by coughing, they tend to persist in the same region for a considerable period. A rhythmic rhonchus or sibilus, as was first observed by Stokes, may be produced by the ventricular contractions, if the portion of lung is in close proximity to the heart and the secretions abundant. Rales may be large, medium, or small, accord- ing to the size of the lironchial tube which is occluded by an accumulation of mucus, the sound being produced by the air passing through the mucus. Moderately fine rales, however, may be produced in the larger bronchi. Large rales are of less grave import than the small, in that they imply that the larger tubes are mainly affected; and mere loudness of the sounds is not of bad omen—in fact, it is in the graver cases of widespread vol.. II implication of the finer tubes that the moist sounds are least audible. The smaller rales are sometimes spoken of as sub-crepitant. Yet it is of considerable importance that they should be distinguished from the crepitation which is indicative of pneumonia or of phthisis, conditions which may be associated with the symptoms of simple bronchitis. A plug of mucus in a bronchus may temporarily prevent the air entering the corre- sponding portion of the lung, and causes a localised diminution or absence of breath- sounds, until by coughing the plug is removed. But usually in bronchitis the amount of air entering the vesicles being deficient, the normal vesicular murmur is less distinct than in health, consequently the bronchial breath-sounds are less marked and the breathing seems unduly harsh. Yet tlie bronchial breathing is never heard in uncomplicated bronchitis, except over the roots of lungs; it is only heard when either collapse or pneumonia is present, and may then be associated with dulness on per- cussion and increased vocal resonance. Vocal fremitus and voice-conduction are scarcely altered in uncomialicated bronchitis. The percussion-note is normal unless the bronchitis is pronounced, and then the whole of the upper part of the chest, being acutely distended and emphysematous, yields a hyper- resonant or almost tympanitic note. iLven small patches of broncho-pneumonia do not give rise to dulness on percussion, but con- gestion of the bases, collapse, or pneumonia, if extensive, causes a diminution of the reso nance. The tongue is almost invariably coated, and symptoms of gastro-intestinal catarrh, with anorexia, thirst, and constipation, are generally present. In uncomplicated cases of the larger and middle-sized tubes the attack gradually sub- sides in the course of a week, the expectoration becoming decreased in amount and more normal in character, the physical signs in the chest gradually disappearing, convalescence being- established in about ten days or a fortnight. But in the old and feeble, and in young- children, the disease is apt to extend down to the smaller tubes, with a liability to pulmonary collapse. Especially is this dangerous complica- tion likely to arise in measles and Avhooping- cough. In the acute suffocative type the prognosis is always grave, even in cases uncomplicated with cardiac or renal disease, while any coexistent affection of the lungs, heart, or kidney greatly aggravates the danger. Walshe said he had known a case fatal in forty-six hours ; but while these patients often succumb within a few days, they sometimes recover even after the condition appears hopeless. Acute bronchitis may pass into a subacute or chronic state, and is then liable to be associated with various complications. 2