BURNS AND SCALDS 37 Hypera;mia of brain Hyperiiemia of lungs Nephritis Pneumonia Hypenemia of intestines Pleurisy Ulcer of duodenum Meningitis occurred in 49 p.c. „ 36-5 „ 28-2 27 oo-o „ 18-8 „ „ 12-4 „ „ 10-5 „ There is also a jjrofound alteration of the blood in these cases. Its specific gravity is in- creased, the polymorpho-nuclear leucocytes are increased in number, the red cells run together and idtiniately break down, and the hicmoglobin set free is deposited in the epithelial cells of the tubules of the kidney, where it produces irrita- tion followed by heemoglobinuria. Thrombi and small extravasations are found in many situations throughout the body, prob- ably due to the action of a fibrin-ferment, of which two have been isolated, one a body like muscarin, the other belonging to the pyridine- chinoline groiip. Some interesting clinical and experimental observations by Korolenko throw light on these morbid appearances. He found both in patients and animals dying after severe superficial burns, that the ganglion cells of the solar plexus had undergone degenerative changes, varying, accord- ing to the severity of the injury, from slight oedema to complete destruction of their proto- plasm with disappearance of their nuclei. From his experiments he concludes that the solar plexus is subjected to a reflex excitation, which passes out to the abdominal circidatory system, producing spasm of the vessels, including those supplying the ganglia themselves, whereby nutrition sufters. In the rapidly fatal cases the vessels remain spasmodically contracted, and hypera}mia of the abdominal organs is not observed. In the less severe cases the spasm of the vessels is followed by a passive dilatation which explains the hypcriX'mia of the viscera. The influence of the solar plexus upon the heart may also be a factor in producing death. Bardeen has recently observed marked changes in all the lymphatic tissues of the body, from the small nodules of lymphocytes in Glisson's capsule to the largest lymphatic glands—consisting in general oedema of the lymph tissue, especially at the germinal centres, with swelling of the individual cells and breaking up of their nuclei ; and the appearance of certain large flattened endothelial cells having a phagocytic action. He also found in his cases marked cloudy swell- ing of the liver and kidney, and softening and enlargement of the spleen. The morbid findings throughout, therefore, are so like those met with in diseases where the presence of a tn.rine is known to produce them, that it seems highly probable that death in rapidly fatal cases of burning admits of a similar explanation, although the source and nature of the toxine are as yet undetermined. Local Histological Changes.—The most note- worthy changes following the application of heat to the surface of the body are the coagida- tion of the protoplasm of the cells, and its sub- sequentdisorganisation. The collagenous bundles in the immediate vicinity of the charred tissues become swollen and thickened, and large irregular spaces are formed by the sudden formation of steam in the tissues. The papillse are swollen, thickened, and spherical, and become loosened from the epidermis. By the over-stretching of the horny layer of the skin and the sudden evolution of steam, the epidermis is raised, and bulke form. Into these serum, sometimes mixed with blood, is eft'used. The blood-vessels and lymphatics of the tissues are seared and occluded. The zone surroiniding the destroyed tissue is congested and swollen, and shows considerable infiltration with leucocytes. The separation of eschars is effected by the growth of granulation tissue. Treatment Of the General Condition.—During the stage of collapse or shock the patient must be kept warm by means of hot bottles, warm blankets, or cotton-wool. Alcoholic stimulants, cither by the mouth or as an enema, are clearly indicated, and should be given freely. Hypodermic in- jections of ether, strychnine, or brandy may be called for. When pain is severe, morphia must be in- jected hypodermically. As improvement takes place, hot drinks will do good if the patient can take them. Local Treatment.—It cannot be too strongly urged that burns must be treated on the same rigidly antiseptic lines as other surgical wounds. In this connection it is important to note that Unna has invariably found pyogenic bacteria in the bulla) of burns. The first step, therefore, is thorough purifica- tion by antiseptic agents, and that this may be satisfactorily accomplished a general antesthetic is in most cases necessary. In the subsequent dressings of extensive burns, especially in children, the value of a general ansesthetic can scarcely be over-estimated. The clothes are cai'efully removed, the burned area thoroughly, yet gently, washed with warm boracic lotion or a 1 in 100 solution of lysol. Blisters are opened and the raised epithelium removed; and a final wash with normal salt solution, to get rid of any excess of antiseptic, completes the preliminary purification. The local application to be used depends largely upon the depth of the burn, its extent, and the time which has elapsed since its occur- rence. In all cases the following indications have to be met—(1) the relief of pain ; (2) the prevention of sepsis ; and (3) the promotion of cicatrisation. Local Treatment of Recent Burns of First,