TYMPANIC MEMBIIANE 481 EAR: AFFECTIONS OF in connection with middle ear disease. Pro- longed irritation of the external surface may lead to congestion, followed by appearances of dermatitis. Various changes have been de- scribed, e.g. (1) throwing off' of epidermis, (2) the formation of granulations, (.3) ulceration, and (4) perforation, the last-mentioned three conditions being associated with more or less suppuration. According to my own experience the only form of chronic myringitis worthy of practical con- sideration is that in which the external surface of the drumhead is seen to be thicliened, so that the landmarlvs are more or less obliterated. Even then, however, tlie malleus c^m usmxlly be traced, although its outline has lost definition. Sometimes, in addition, scales of eijidermis are thi'own oft', and the appearance is that of a chronic scaly eczema. The treatment must depend upon the result of objective examination. If granulations be present, they should be cauterised with nitrate of silver or chromic acid fused on a probe. The presence of pus indicates careful syringing with boric lotion, followed by drying out and the insufflation of powdered boric acid or instillations of rectified spirit. In the chronic scaly form, which will be often found associated with eczema of the meatus, the application of nitrate of silver dissolved in spirits of nitrous ether (10-20 gr. ad 5].) will be found eft'ective, while the ear must be kept free from epithelial accumulations by means of the syringe. If such accumulations have already occurred, they may be softened by means of a solution of bicarbonate of soda (15 grs.) in an ounce of equal parts of water and glycerine. Changes in the Tympanic Membrane which FOLLOW Previous Inflammations.—These con- ditions will be fully described in another part of this work (p. 483). I shall, therefore, merely refer to the fact that a cicatrix always indicates that there has at one time been a perfoi'ation, due possibly to myringitis, but probably to middle ear suppuration. Again, the presence of calcareous deposits, although not pathognomonic, is sti'ongly suggestive of previous acute or chronic suppiu-ation. Atrophic patches, on the other hand, indicate chronic middle ear catarrh. New Growths and Chronic Infective Granulomata.—In certain cases aural polypi seem to be attached to the margins of a perforation, but I suspect that this is a very rare occurrence, as these growths commonly have their origins within the tymj^anum. Horny gi-owths, cholesteatomata, vascular tumours, osseous deposits, cysts, gummata, and tubercle have been described. The last named is usually associated with a tuberculous con- dition of the middle ear. In such cases the membrane may show yellow nodules which break down and lead to destruction of tissue, thus increasing the size of the already existing perforation. vol. II Injuries of the Tympanic Membrane.—The drum membrane may be injured by direct violence. Thus some persons are fond of boring in their ears with instruments of various kinds, and a sudden accident may drive the extremity against or through the membrane. Such lesions are most commonly found in the anterior seg- ment. A not unconnnon form of lesion is found in cases in which abortive attempts have been made with instruments to remove real or imagined foreign bodies by unskilled pei'sons, while rarely one meets with cases in which boiling liquids, having been poured into the ears, have produced burns, followed by perforation. Sudden changes of air pressure either on the inner or outer side may lead to perforation of the membrane. Thus in chalky and cicatrised drumheads the vise of Politzer's bag may be followed by perforation, and the same may result from coughing, sneezing, or blowing the nose. Again, boxing the ears, sudden loud sounds, diving, etc., may lead to the same result. Fractures involving the osseous meatus, and frequently the base of the skull as well, may lead to injury of the tympanic membrane. In some cases of direct violence not only is the drumhead perforated, l)ut the liandle of the malleus may be fractured. The symptoms vary considerably according to the cause, and more particularly according to the amount of violence used. In most instances of the occurrence of a ^^erfora- tion, or even of an injury short of perforation, a. sensation of sound is expeiienced at the moment, associated, of course, with a good deal of pain. This pain may pass off quickly, but, on the other hand, if infection of the tympanum has occurred, it continues, and the case runs the course usual in acute otitis media. There may also be a good deal of bleeding, and the hearing power is always impaired, but to a varying extent. A certain amount of vertigo is by no means un- common. On examining the ear after injury to the membrane, the appearances, of course, vary within very wide limits. If only a superficial lesion has resulted, we usually find a localised area of inflammation, frequently associated with the presence of coagula or ecchymoses. If such coagula 1)6 watched from day to day it will be seen that they are gradually moved towards the periphery of the membrane, and then on to the wall of the meatus, a phenomenon probably- due to excentric growth of the epithelium. When an actual perforation has taken place, the shape and size of the orifice will vary according to the instrument with which the lesion has been inflicted in cases of direct violence. If the orifice be small it may be covered by clotted blood, while if it be large extravasations and coagula will be detected in the surrounding parts. On the whole, it will probably be best, in cases where doubt exists as to the presence or 31