COLPOCLEISTS 200 bladder and the assistant's finger in the rectum during the passing of the sutures. The consent of the patient and her husband must have been obtained and the nature and result of the operation explained. ColpoCystOtOmy.—An operation by which the bladder is opened into by means of a vaginal incision; this may be done for diagnosis, for the removal of a stone or tumour in the bladder, or for intractable cases of cystitis (when the incision is to be kept open as an artificial fistula for some time). Colpohyperplasia Cystica.—A degenerative change in the mucous membrane of the vagina, occurring sometimes in preg- nancy, and characterised by thickening of the mucosa with the presence in it of numerous small gas-containing cysts; it was first de- scribed by von Winckel; it is probably due to a gas-producing bacillus, and is therefore really emphysematous vaginitis; and it is to be treated by glycerine tampons. Colporrhaphy.—The operation (from Gr. koAtto^, vagina, and pacf^i], suturing) for narrowing the vaginal canal by excision of strips or areas of mucous membrane and the approximation of the raw surfaces by sutures ; it may be carried out on the anterior vaginal wall {anterior c.) or on the posterior {posterior c); it may be associated with perineal repair {coIjm- perineorrhaphy); and it is commonly performed for the relief of troublesome prolapsus uteri. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor (Pro- lajysus Uteri or Sacro-jmhic Hernia); Uterus, Displacement of {Prolapse of the Uterus, Opera- tive Measures). Colpotomy.—The operation of opening into the peritoneal cavity thro^^gh the anterior vaginal fornix {anterior c.) or through the posterior fornix {posterior c.); vaginal section : it is a stage in various operations such as vaginal ovariotomy, vaginal hysterectomy, and vaginal hysteropexy. See Uterus, Non-Malig- nant Tumours of {Treatment of Fibroids). Colli brine. <S'ee Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Colubrine Snakes). Columbia, British. See Thera- peutics, Health Resorts {American). Columna or Column.—A pillar or tract or pillar-like part of the body, e.g. the columns of the spinal cord, of the heart {columnce carneoe), of the vagina, of the rectum {columns of Morgagni), etc. See also Burdach ; Clarke ; Goll ; Turck ; etc. Colwyn Bay. See Therapeutics, Health Eesorts {English). Coma.—A state of insensibility (from Gr. K(jj/ia, lethargy) resembling deep sleep, from which the individual either cannot be roused or can be roused only incompletely; respiration is slow and stertorous, and generally irregular. It may be due to cerebral concussion, haemor- rhage, embolism, or thrombosis; or to sun- stroke ; to alcoholic or narcotic poisoning; or to ura3mia, diabetes, or meningitis, etc. See Alcoholism {Acute, Alcoholic Coma); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Hcsmorrhage, Thrombosis); Brain, Hypertrophy ; Brain, Surgery' of {Conctission, Diagnosis); Diabetes Mellitus {Diabetic Coma); Malaria {Pernicious Attach, Comatose Form); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal ; Nephritis {Clinical Features, Nervous System); Sunstroke {Heat Fever); Toxicology {Alcohol); Typhoid Fever {Symp- toms, Nervous System); Typhus Fever {Period of Advance, Ne7-vous Symptoms); Unconscious- ness ; UR/TiMIA. Coma Vigfil. — A lethargic state, in which there is unconsciousness combined with sleeplessness and (sometimes) muttering de- lirium (Sir W. Jenner); the phrase literally signifies "wakeful deep sleep"; it is a symp- tom which appears generally just before the fatal termination of such diseases as typhus, delirium tremens, etc.; there is no stertorous breathing, the pulse is quick, the eyes are half open, the pupils are not contracted, and there is a certain degree of consciousness. See Typhoid Fever {Symptoms, Nervous System). Combined Deg^eneration of the Spinal Cord. —A disease of the spinal cord, occurring in cases of profound anaemia, and showing resemblances to locomotor ataxia, disseminated sclerosis, and peripheral neuritis. Combustion, Spontaneous. See Burns and Scalds {Medico-Legal Aspects).—The supposed burning of the human body from accumulation of internal heat, as in the case of drunkards ; an exploded belief. Comedo.—A black-head or black spot on the skin of the face due to the retention of a hardened mass of sebum in a distended seba- ceous gland; the mass of sebum can be ex- pressed by pressure on the surrounding skin, and has the form of a little yellow worm with a black head (the black head is due to dirt or to pigment). Literally the Latin word comedo means a glutton, and the term used to be applied to worms that devour the body. See Acne ; Skin, Bacteriology of the {Tlie Acne Pustule). Comes.—Literally a companion, is the name given to any accompanying structure, especially a nerve or vessel, e.g. arteria comes nervi mediani.