, DISEASES OF 205 CONJUNCTIVA, More rarely a definite tumour is met with, involving, it may be, the semilunar fold or the ocular or the palpebral conjunctiva. In some of these cases the angioma forms a livid, nodulated mass, bleeding on slight provocation. Treatment.—Small capillary naivi, which give rise to no disfigurement, call for no special treatment unless they show a tendency to get bigger. More conspicuous patches may be seared with the galvano-cautery, or (after care- fully drying the parts) be painted lightly with solution of sodium ethylatc (B.P.) until improve- ment residts. The cavernous angiomata are best dissected out, an operation that is by no means so difficult as it seems. Lymphatic vd.rix is a rare l)ut interesting congenital condition which depends upon dilata- tion of the lymphatic vessels, with hyperplasia of the conjunctiva. Some part of the ocular mucous membrane is occupied by a bunch of small yellowish elevations, which convey the notion that they contain fluid. The mass may undergo variations in size, particularly in females at the menstrual period. In a case of my own the appearance reminded one of a non- inflammatory chemosis, of yellowish colour, occupying the ocular conjunctiva on the nasal side of the eyeball. In another case a prominent mass of yellow-like tissue, dotted over with tiny hicmorrhagic points, was connected with the semilunar fold, while in the same eye there was a collection of yellowish beaded vessels in the upper part of the ocular conjunctiva. Both lids were thickened, presumably from lymphatic obstruction. The eyeball was small; shreds of persistent pupillary membrane were present; dotted opacities were diffused through the crystalline lens; and sight was extremely poor. Alt examined microscopically an instance of lymphatic varix, and found in the ocular con- junctiva a series of canals and cavities, the walls of which were lined by endothelium and formed by the compressed fibres of the conjunctival tissue. Moles have been described as existing upon the ocular conjunctiva. Supernvmerary Caruncle.—-It appears that the caruncula lacrymalis, like the tragus or the nipple, may be duplicated. The first observa- tion of the kind was published by the writer in 1896, and since then Dr. J. W. H. Eyre has recorded two similar cases. A small, raised, fleshy mass, of granular appearance, is attached to the conjunctiva of upper or lower lid some- where near the normal caruncle ; fine hairs may be present on the surface of the growth. Treatment.—Should it be desired for ajsthetic reasons, the little tumour may readily be snipped away with scissors. Recurrence is unlikely. Other Rare Affections.—The writer has seen perhaps half-a-dozen instances of a peculiar congenital growth, which, so far as he is aware, has not been mentioned in literature. A greyish red tumour, oblong or reniform in outline, occupies some part of the ocular conjunctiva. It is freely movable with the conjunctiva in which it lies; a few dilated vessels often run towards it. Microscopically it seems to be of cystic nature, its wall being formed of a thick but irregular stratified epithelium, together with a vascular subepithelial layer of connective tissue. The tumour is easily dissected out, and if the wound be carefully closed with a con- tinuous suture, scarcely a trace of the opei-ation remains. Inflammatory Affections The conjunctival sac, even in a state of health, is seldom altogether free from micro- organisms, of which by far the commonest is the so-called xerosis bacillus ; the staphylococcus pyogenes albus (or the staphylococcus epidermi- dis albus) is also often found. Certain other microbes are present under morbid conditions, as, for example, gonococci. Weeks' bacilli, pneu- mococci, diplobacilli, bacillus coli communis, diphtheria bacilli, and various pyogenic cocci. They give rise to definite conjunctivitis, the diagnosis of which is nowadays made chiefly from a bacteriological examination. Although our knowledge of the parasitic nature of acute- ophthalmia is fairly complete, the same cannot yet be said of the chronic forms, especially of trachoma. Acute Oi-htiialmia As stated above, in our present state of knowledge it is possible to ascribe nearly every known form of acute ophthalmia to the action of specific microbes. At the same time, to avoid confusion, we may retain the classical clinical divisions and speak of: 1. Muco - purulent ophthalmia ; 2. Purulent ophthalmia ; 3. Granu- lar ophthalmia ; and 4. Membranous ophthalmia. 1. Muco-PuHULENT OpiiTHALMiA.—Tliis Com- mon affection tends to become epidemic in spring and summer, and at times it is extremely con- tagious. No age is exempt, although it is, above all things, a childish ailment. Etiology. — It is associated with several distinct micro-organisms, of which two are more widely spread than the rest put together, namely, (a) the short and slender bacillus described by Koch and Weeks, and {h) the diplobacillus to which attention was directed by Morax a few years ago. In some other countries, however, it would appear to be more generally due to pneimiococci. It is sometimes set up by the bacillus coli communis, as well as by the various pyogenic cocci, as the staphylococcus aureus, citreus, and albus, although in the case of the last-named a special predisposing condition of conjunctiva is probably essential to the oph- thalmia. I have met with one case (associated with an evil - smelling discharge) where the bacillus pyogenes foetidus appeared to be the