457 EAR, EXAMINATION OF examination whould ho ctjndnL-tcil along swch lines as will lead to the localisation of the affec- tion in one or other, or in both, of these general subdivisions. 2. Symftomatology.—The chief sj-niptoms and signs in connection with disease of the ear may be briefly stated to be (a) disturbance in hearing ; (/;) tinnitus, or subjective noises in the ear ; (c) pain; (cl) vertigo or giddiness ; and (e) discharge from the ear. (a) Distm-hancen in Heariiui.—The onset of deafness may be rapid, or it may be more or less gradual. A sudden onset may result from a collection of wax in the external auditory meatus, or it may be due to a labyrinthine cftusion. In all cases of sudden deafness, incjuiry should be made as to the previous existence of defective hearing. If the onset is very gradual, it is often difficult for the patient to give any definite statement as to the exact time and mode of its origin. In all cases coming under observation, an examination of both ears should be made, though the patient may complain of only one of them. Careful testing may reveal incipient mischief where none was suspected, and prog- nosis may thereby be influenced. The more fre- quent occurrence of the exanthemata in children, and the greater tendency for acute inflannnatory processes to pass from the naso-pharynx to the middle ear, render that organ more lialile to inflammatory attacks in the young. In adult life, on the other hand, the chronic catarrhal affections of the tympanum are more common, while in advancing years the auditory nerve tends to react less readily to sound vibrations. Heredity undoubtedly plays a part in the causa- tion of some forms of deafness, thus necessitating a careful inquiry into the family history in such cases. The presence or absence of certain anom- alies in hearing should be inquired into, such as hearing better in a noise (paracusis Willisii), or double hearing (diphicusis). The patient may complain that certain sounds produce almost a painful impression, ht/i>e7resthesia. acoiistica, but this is a less common anomaly. (6) Tinnitus Aurivm or Siihjertive Noises in the Ear.—Subjective sensations of sound are very frequently complained of; these sounds have no objective cause outside the body, and they YAvy alike in their character and their intensity. It should be borne in mind that the}' may be intra-aural in origin and due to changes of tension in the ear itself ; again, tliey may be reflex, the reflex cause being found in a diseased tooth, or possibly excited by gastric disturbance; lastly, and not infrequently, they are of vascular origin, and may be clue to changes in the condi- tion of the walls of the blood-vessels, as in Bright's disease, to changes in the circulation in heart disease, and to changes in the quality of the blood itself, as in anasmia. It is sufficient merely to indicate these points here, so that the attention of the aurist may not be confined entirely to the ear itself in the elucidation and treatment of this most disagreeal)le complaint. ((•) Pain.—Pain is a marked symptom in acute inflammations of the external and middle ear; when com])lained of in association with cln-onic suppuration of the latter cavity it lie- comes a symptom of considerable gravity. It must not be forgotten that pain may be referred to the ear in association with carious teeth; objective examination of the ear and of the teeth will, as a rule, clear up this point. Pain aggra- vated on moving the jaw, on pressure upon the tragus, or on pulling the auricle suggests the presence of a meatal inflammation ; on the other hand, if deep-seated, intermittent in character, being worse at night, and aggravated by blowing the nose and coughing, it is more symptomatic of an acute otitis media. When pain is associ- ated with discharge from the ear, attention should be paid to the condition of the mastoid process, and its presence may be elicited by careful pressure upon the bone. {d) Vertigo or Giddiness.—This symptom may be sudden and severe, as in the^typical Meniere's disease of the labyrinth, or it may be very slight in character. Anything which will alter the tension of the lal)yrinthine fluid may cause some degree of vertigo ; hence the j^ressure of wax upon the tympanic membrane, an indrawn con- dition of the memlH-ane, or the presence of fluid in the tympanic cavity may exert sufficient pressure through the chain of ossicles upon the fenestra ovalis as to increase the tension of that fluid. Giddiness preceded by nausea may be due to gastric distiu-1 lances ; giddiness followed by nausea suggests, on the contrary, its otitic origin. ((') Discharge from the Ear.—Discharge from the ear varies in its character ; it may lie thin and serous, often containing fl;dves of epithelium, as in the eczematous conditions of the meatus ; it may lie muco-purulent and stringy, or pin-u- lent and thick ; sometimes it is tinged with blood, an appearance which sliould always sug- gest the iiresence of granulations or polypi. Dis- ciiarge from the ear may be meatal in origin, as in eczema or in acute inflammatory conditions, l)ut as a rule its soin-ce lies in the middle eai", and it drains throuiih a perforation in the tym- panic membrane. It may be extremely offensive in character, and in every case of aural discharge the examiner should make it a routine practice to smell the speculum on its withdi'awal. The fcetor which so frequently accompanies a chronic middle ear suppuration is patliognomonic of that condition. The patient's statement as to the cessation of an aural discharge should never be accepted until a careful examination of the ear has been made. If tlic examiner should fail to satisfy himself of its presence by mere inspection through the speculum, he shoidd not fail to introduce into the bottom of the external meatus a wick of absorbent wool, and on its withdrawal