CLIMACTERIC INSANITY Prognosis.—Having thus examined the general facts relative to mental disorders occurring at the climacteric, it is evident that there are no marked peculiarities other than can be readily understood on consideration of the underlying physical and environmental conditions. It will consequently be granted that on the cessation of the period of stress there is expectation that the recoveries will not be fewer than in con- nection with other similar disorders. Indeed, it may be averred that the chances of recovery are more than usually favourable, if we exclude cases complicated by previous attack, organic cerebral lesions, and the manifestly degenerate. Still recovery may be protracted, though but few die. The risk of death by suicide is com- paratively small, notwithstanding the prevalence of gloomy thoughts and feelings of unwortlii- ness, for the slower current of life enfeebles the power to end misery by self-destruction. Yet while this is generally true, it would be a reck- less procedure which woidd fail to take such a risk into account and fail to take precautions for prevention. The treatment of climacteric insanity must proceed on the theory of individual necessities. If the sudden cessation of ovarian activity is causing the mental instability, as has been already indicated, ovarian substance promises good results. If the symptoms are referalile to the skin, and a harsh dryness indicates slug- gishness of action, baths and exercise will be indicated. There is no class of cases for whom exercise is more generally beneficial, but ex- haustion may be so profound that rest and massage are preferable. Or if the alterations in the appendages of the skin are the basis of delusions, these must be treated. Removal of unsightly hair from the face has led to recovery. Again, there is often constipation of an intract- able form, leading to autotoxic effects. There is no better remedy for this than sulphate of magnesia in small and daily doses. These indications of treatment will serve to show how closely the physical condition must be studied, and how treatment must be appropriate to that condition. It may be that the gynascologist will be required to operate upon new growths or to rectify malpositions. In short, if the treatment of insanity is to be successful, there must be no omissions in research and no failure in performance. This is not the place to en- largo upon those measures of mental hygiene which such patients require, nor is there any special note of interest in reference to the place of treatment. If appropriate treatment can be had without having recourse to asylums, no doubt that will be tried; but it Avill be recog- nised that, for the vast majority of cases of pronounced climacteric insanity, the special appliances and practical experience at the service of the public in a modern asylum are both requisite and necessary. VOL. II Climate and Acclimatisation. Definition . . . . . .161 Varieties op . . . . . .161 General Characteristics . . .162 Individual Factors in . . . . 163 Climate as a Therapeutic Agent . .164 Acclimatisation . . . . .165 See also Diet {Modifying Factors, Climate); Liver, Tropical Affections {Ilypermmia, .Effect of a Tropical Climate); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Treatment, Therapeutic, Climate); Menstrua- tion AND its Disorders {Puberty, Age of); Meteorology ; Nephritis {Etiology, Climate); Obesity {Etiology, Race and Climate); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Caused by Climatic Conditions); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Climate and its Effects). Climate, from the Greek word kXIvm, I incline. Lat. Clima; Gr. KXljia, a region; Fr. Climat; Ger. Erdstrich, Himmelstrich. The word climate is now used to specify the definite diff"erences which obtain between one region and another, as regards temperature and its variations, humidity and rainfall, the com- position of the atmosphere, its density and pressure, winds, electrical conditions of the atmosphere, the organic and inorganic sub- stances it contains, etc. The configuration of the ground must also be taken into account, the composition of the soil and the pi'esence or absence of vegetation, marsh-land or desert, plain or valley, inland or maritime position, mountainous or otherwise. The term used to be employed in astronomical or mathematical geography to designate "a portion or zone of the earth's surface, comprised between two lines parallel to the equator, and measured by the length of time during which the sun there appears during the summer solstice, that is, by the sun's inclination. The space between the equator and the pole was divided into half-hour climates, in which the length of each day increased by half an hour, and also into monthly climates." As the climate of a region may be said to be essentially dependent ujjon the duration of its exposure to the sun's rays, modified certainly by local conditions, the relation of the region to the equator is of great importance. Hence, originally, three great climatic divisions were described— 1. The hot or warm climate, extending from the equator to lat. 35°, with a mean annual temperature of about 80° F. (27° C). 2. The temperate climate, extending from the 35th to the 55th degrees of latitude, with a mean annual temperature of about 60° F. (16° C). 3. The cold climate, between 55° lat. N. and the poles. In this region the temperature varies from 40° F. (5° C.) to 5° F. ( - 15° C). 11