338 DTAMETKR Diameter.—The distance from a point in the periphery of a circle passing tlirough the centre to the corresponding point on the opposite side; the same measurement made in the case of a spherical, circular, or cylindrical body. There ai-e various pelvic diameters (such as the conjugate, true, diagonal, and external), the i cranial diameters (such as the occipito-frontal, occipito-mental, biparietal, etc.), and the cor- poreal diameters (such as the bisacromial, the sterno-vertebi-al, etc.). Dia.mido Acids. — Acids with two amidogens (NH,,) replacing two hydrogen atoms in their molecule, such as li/sin (diamido-caproic acid) and diamido-jJi'opionic acid. Dicliniiries.—Bases in which two atoms of hydrogen in ammonia have been replaced by radicals, e.;/. ethylene-diamine (C.2H^(NHo).2), and diethylene-iliamine q>x'piperaT.ine (NH(C2H^)oNH). See Urine, Pathological Changes in (Abnormal Nitrogen(jm Constituents, Diamines). Diciminuria..—The presence of diamines (cadaverine, putrescine, etc.) in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in (Abnormal Nitrogenous Constituents, Diamines). DiapedesiS.—The passage (during in- flammation) of the red corpuscles of the blood out of blood-vessels into the surrounding tissues; they are supposed to pass through the un- ruptured vessel walls either between the endo- thelial cells or thi'ough openings made by the leucocytes, but it is more likely that they pass out through the bursting of capillaries; the process is to be distinguished from the emigra- tion of leucocytes, occurring as a rule before the latter has become active. See Physiology, Nutrition of the Tissues, The Blood (Cells of the Blood) ; Suppuration [Acute Circumscribed Abscess). Diaper.—A napkin, worn to absorb dis- charges from bladder, bowels, or vagina; sanitary towel. DiapllOretiCS. See also Pharmacology; Prescribing ; Ammonium ; etc.—The term dia- phoretics is applied to all measures which increase the secretion of sweat. The Physiology of Sweating.—The activity of the sweat glands is closely related to the condi- tion of the cutaneous circulation, and therefore to the heat-regulating mechanism. When the surrounding atmosphei'e is warm the cutaneous vessels dilate, the amount of sweat is increased, and heat is lost by the resulting evaporation. When the atmosphere is cold the vessels of the skin contract and the amount of sweat is de- creased. The sweat glands are not, however, actually dependent on the cutaneous circulation, but their activity is under the influence of a nervous mechanism analogous to that presiding over other secreting organs. This fact is supported not only by experimental evidence, but by such evidence as the occurrence of sweating from mental emotion, the sweating brought about by a venous condition of the blood, or the reflex sweating which results from the introduction of pungent substances into the mouth. Enumeration and Mode of Action. — The principal diaphoretics are warmth ; hot drinks ; jaborandi (pilocarpin); liquor ammoniao acetatis or citratis ; potassii citras ; potassii nitras ; ipe- cacuanha (Dover's powder); opium; antimonium (pulvis antimonialis or vinum antimoniale); alcohol; salicin and the salicylates; vai'ious pungent and aromatic substances. We find the simplest means of producing diaphoresis in the direct application of heat to the skin, whether by means of warm baths, of hot air or vapour baths, or the various kinds of packs. The sweating appears to be brought about not by direct stimulation of the sudori- ferous glands, but through the action of the central nervous system. It may be greatly aided by the administration of hot drinks, possibly owing to an increased flow of warm blood through the nerve centres ; and these, further, may be stimulated reflexly by the addition to the drinks of pungent or spicy substances. Alcohol produces diaphoresis chiefly by dilating the cutaneous vessels and increas- ing the circulation through the skin, but it also stimulates the nervous mechanism. Like other narcotics, such as opium, it produces sweating in the later stages of its action by increasing the venosity of tlie blood. Pilocarpin produces copious sweating chiefly by stimulat- ing the peripheral ends of the secretory nerves,, while nicotine produces a similar result chiefly by acting on the central nervous system. Uses.—Diaphoretic measures are largely used on account of their antipyretic effect in pyrexia associated with the onset of acute specific fevers, or the occurrence of acute local inflammations. For example, at the onset of an attack of acute nasal or bronchial catarrh the administration at bedtime of a small dose of opium combined with other diaphoretics will often be found to greatly relieve both the local and the general discomfort. A quarter of a grain of morphia may be ordered in a glass of hot toddy, or from 5 to 10 grains each of Dover's powder and phenacetin. This should be followed on the next day by the administration of such diaphoretics as liquor ammonia) acetatis and spiritus setheris nitrosi; antimony, ipecacuanha, and occasionally aconite are useful in similar cases. In some skin diseases associated with deficient activity of the sweat glands, diaphoretics are of assistance in the treatment. Perhaps the most important use of diapho- retics has arisen from the recognition of the fact that the secretory action of the skin may be to^