CARBOLURIA 55 CarbOluria.. See Carbolic Acid; Urine, Patiioi.ugical Changes in {Colour, Drugs in). Carbon Bisulphide. A$eeBisuLPiimE OF Carbon. See a/so Amblyopia (Toxic); Toxi- cology {Organic Poisons, Carbon Bistdpkide); Trades, Dangerous {Bisulphide of Carbon). Carbonic Acid. See Air, Examina- tion OF {Carbonic Acid, Ground Air); Breath {Chendcal Examination) ; Cholera, Epidemic {Analysis of Symptoms, Respii-ation); Labour, Physiology of {Causes of Labour); Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia); Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline; Earthy and Cal- careous) ; Physiology, Blood (Gases); Physio- logy, Excretion (f/rme); Pregnancy, Physio- logy {Changes in Respiratirm); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases (Getieral Symptomatology, Flatulence); ToxicohOGY (GaseousPoisons, Carbon Dioxide). Carbonic Oxide. See Asphyxia (Causes) ; Medicine, Forensic (Death fi-om Aspihyxia, Carbonic Oxide); Physiology, Blood (Carbon - monoxide - hcemoglobin); Toxicology (Gaseous Poisons, Carbon Monoxide). Carbonyl Cilioride.—An irritating gas (CO^Cl.,) formed by the decomposition of chloroform in the presence of burning coal-gas or oil; phosgen. See Anaesthesia, General Physiology (Chloroform). Carbuncle. A^ee Anthrax ; Boils and Carbuncle {Carbuncle); Diabetes Mellitus (Complications, Skin); Neck, Region of (In- jiammatory Affections) ; Skin, Bacteriology of (Bacteria identified ivith Carbuncle); Suppura- tion (Treatment, Operative): Typhoid Fever (Complications, Cutaneous System). Carburetted Hydrogen.—Marsh gas, methane, or methyl hydride (CH_j) is light carbnretted hydrogen, and has, in rare instances, been expelled from the mouth in flatulent dys- pepsia (vide Indigestion, Flatulent Dys2oepsia) ; methane mixed with air is the fire-damp of coal- mines, and may cause explosions. Ethylene or defiant gas (C^H^) is heavy carburetted hydrogen. Carcinoma. See Tumours (Epithelial Group), Carcinoma). See also Cancer (for cross- references). Carcinosis.—Cancer or the cancerous cachexia ; tlie carcinoses have been regarded as including tuberculosis as well as cancers. Cardamomi Semina.—Cardamom seeds are got from the Eteitaria cardamomum ; they contain a volatile and a fixed oil, and have a pleasant taste; and they are used as a car- minative and stomachic medicine. The ofiicial preparation is the Tinctura Cardamomi Com- posita (dose, \ to 1 fl. dr.), but cardamom is also contained in the Pulvis Crette Aromaticus, the Tinctura Rhei Composita, etc. Carden'S Amputation. -See Ampu- tations (Carden.s). Cardia.—The heart, or, more commonly, the point where the oesophagus opens into the stomach. .SVe Angina Pectoris, etc. Cardiac.—Belonging to the heart or to the oesophageal opening into the stomach. For cardiac asthma, see Asthma ; for cardiac contrac- tions, see Heart, Physiology of, and Physiology (Circulation); for cardiac crises, see Tabes Dor- SALis (Symptomatology, Cranial Nei-ves); for cardiac diseases, see Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium ; Heart, Neuroses ; Heart, Con- genital Malformations ; for cardiac piain, see Angina Pectoris ; and for cardiac sounds (foetal), see Pregnancy, Diagnosis. Cardialg'ia. — Gastric pain, especially pyrosis or heartburn. See Chest-Wall, Affec- tions OF (Pain in the Chest); Indigestion (Sympitoms); Stomach and Duodenum, Dis- eases OF (Geneixil Symptomatology, Eructa- tions). CardiOCele. — Hernia of the heart through the thoracic wall or into the abdomen. CardiOCentesiS. —Cardiocentesis or puncture of the heart as a means of treatment in cases of asphyxia, chloroform-narcosis, etc., is not free from danger, but its trial has been to some extent warranted by experimental evidence. Cardiodynia.—Pain in or near the heart ; angina pectoris (q.v.). CardiOg'ram.—A tracing of the move- ment of the apex of the heart, obtained by the use of the cardiograph, which consists, in its simplest form, of a receiving and of a recording tambour connected by a tube. See Physiology, Circulation (Circulation through the Heart) ; Pulse (Heart Movements). CardiOlith. — A calcareous concretion occurring in the heart, e.g. on one of the valves. CardiolysiS.—Resection of the ribs in cases of adhesion of the pericardium and great vessels to the sternum, lungs, diaphragm, and structures in the anterior and posterior medias- tinum, for the purpose of relieving the heart's action (Braiie?-). Cardiomalacia.—Simple softening of the heart, as in obstruction of a small branch of a coronary vessel. See Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Morbid Processes ; Affections of the Myocardium); Nephritis (Different Clinical Types; Circulatory System in).