DISINFECTION" 410 strength of these proprietary preparations is a great defect. Mercuric Salts.—The cyanide and biniodide are now preferred in surgery, but the bichloride Hg^Cl^, commonly called corrosive sublimate or simply sublimate, stands unrivalled as the universal disinfectant for its energy, general applicability, and cheapness. Its poisonous character is often urged against it, but the danger is far less than is commonly supposed, the smallest fatal dose being 3 to 5 grains, or ^ to pint of the 1 in 1000 solution, which is the strongest used. Such a quantity could not be drunk by accident, and the ounce that might .be swallowed in mistake would represent I grain only, the worst effect of which would be a little gastro-intestinal disturbance ; whereas the same quantity of Burnett's Fluid, or a half or even a quarter of an ounce of carbolic acid, would very probably prove fatal. Still, if people are afraid to have it in a house, it might be coloured blue with indigo or laundry blue, when it could not be mistaken for any medicine or beverage. One "part in 10,000 or 1 in 5000 ,is fatal to all but the most resistant bacteria, and 1 in 1000 suffices to kill in a few minutes even those of anthrax in water, and all others even in thick fluids or faeces. To obtain this proportion a stock solution of 1 per cent may be kept; with 10 per cent of common salt or 0"1 per cent of hydrochloric acid added to prevent deteriora- tion through the deposit of a basic chloride. (7) Phenol, CpHj(OH).—Commonly called car- bolic acid, it is rather of the nature of an alcohol or hydroxyl derivative of a hydrocarbon radical. It is strongly antiseptic, but neither powerful nor certain as a disinfectant, for unless concen- trated and allowed to act for several days it does little more than delay the germination of spores. Koch found that 1 per cent destroyed the bacilli and 5 per cent the spores of anthrax in two days, but some bacilli are even more resistant, and those of typhoid fever flourish in a medium carbolised to 1 per cent. Carbolic powders consist of phenol incor- porated with inert mineral matter, its minute subdivision favouring its volatilisation, a doubt- ful advantage since aerial disinfection is an illusion. , They should be guaranteed to contain 1-5 per cent of phenol, though few do, and some show only a trace. The crude acid of the shops is in some re- spects superior to the pure. Cresol or methyl phenol with its derivatives forms the chief constituent of lysol, creolin, izal, " Jeyes' Fluid," and a host of similar mixtures and preparations. It is a better disinfectant than phenol, and some of its products and derivatives are much less poisonous. (8) Formaldehyd, COH.H ; Paraformaldehyde, C3O3H3.H3.—Polymers of the aldehyd of methyl, the first being a pungent gas, very soluble in water, from which it is given off again on heat- ing, and the second a white crystalline solid, breaking up when heated into the normal alde- hyd. It is a very powerful antiseptic, recently much used for preserving milk, fish, etc., and a very good disinfectant. In 1 per cent solu- tions it kills all microbes in from fifteen minutes to one hour, and not being caustic or irritant, and not forming an insoluble compound with soap, as sublimate and zinc salts do, it may be used without hesitation for disinfecting the hands, clothing, brushes, etc., and in laundry work. It has a decided action on bacteria even as a dry gas, though far less than when in solu- tion or when the articles have been wetted. The so-called " Formalin " is a 40 per cent solu- tion of formaldehyd, and paraformaldehyd is sold in tabloids, to be volatilised in a special lamp, the " Alformant." When this is used the walls and furniture should be previously sprayed with water. It may be described as the domestic, as sublimate is, or should be, the official dis- infectant. Disinfecting soaps and candles are not to be commended, being too feeble to be of any real use, while giving a false sense of security. III.—Practical Disinfection PrejMratory Measures.—The difficulties of dis- infection, the risk of spoiling things in the pro- cess, and the necessity of destroying such as cannot be thoroughly disinfected would be minimised if the moment an infectious disease is recognised, or even suspected, all carpets, woollen curtains, stuffed furniture, feather beds, down quilts, and rugs were removed from the room, as well as clothing in chests of drawers, wardrobes, or hanging closets, and no furniture retained beyond a table and cane or wooden chairs, washing-stand, and the like. The easy American or Indian chairs, into the construction of which no textile fabric except a little canvas enters, should be substituted for the arm-chairs or couches usually provided for the attendants. The oldest and the least valuable blankets and bedding should be brought into requisition, or, better still, the ordinary mattress and flock or hair bed be exchanged for one stuffed with the cheap but comfortable zostera or sea-wrack, com- monly though incorrectly called " alva," which may afterwards be burnt, the ticks being boiled for future use. As at this early stage infection can scarcely have taken place, it will be sufficient to expose the articles removed to the wind and light in the garden or yard. A room on the highest floor, if lofty and spacious with ample windows, is to be preferred, but on the next below, if the topmost rooms be in the roof with low ceilings, dormer windows, and the like ; the door should be kept closed and the window more or less open ; and if the weather permit, a fire, however small, kept burning; if not, the chimney at any rate should