DIGESTION AND METABOLISM 379 Pathological Ai;ierations in the juice have not been much investigated. In certain inflam- matoi'j conditions affecting the pancreas the juice seci'eted is thin and inactive, and in other pathological conditions there may be a stoppage of the ffow, due to the ducts being blocked up. The pancreas, however, plays an important part in the metabolism of glucose, which may be ix'ferred to here. If the gland be removed entirely from dogs, diabetes of a severe type at once sets in, and death ensues in a short .time ; but if a small portion be left, so long as this does not undergo atrophy, only traces of glucose appear in the Tirine. As soon as the remaining piece atrophies, marked glycosuria sets in, and within a few weeks or months the animal dies, in such cases, glucose is exci'eted even when no carbohydrate is given in the food, and if any be given by the mouth, it is wholly excreted in the urine. The blood in such cases shows a liig'h percentage of glucose—0"3-0'5 per cent. It is important to note that mere withdrawal of the juice from the intestine does not produce diabetes, nor does ligature of the pancreatic vein. At present we do not know in what way the pancreas exercises an influence on the meta- bolism of glucose. In a few cases of diabetes the pancreas has, on post-mortem examination, been found to be atrophied, or otherwise patho- logically altered (.see " Diabetes "). Intestinal Secretion.—The succus entericus is seci'eted by Lieberktihn's glands of the small and large intestines. It is obtained usually from fistuLne (Thiry-Vella), when a piece of small intestine, about 50 cm. long, has been resected with the mesentery attached and the upper and lower openings sewed into the ab- dominal wall. It is a clear yellow fluid of markedly alkaline reaction, containing usually a fairly large quantity of solids, although the amount of these varies very much. With regard to the enzi/mes present there is a great deal of contradictory evidence. It seems most likely that it contains no ferment which acts on proteids or fat; but it certainly contains an inverting ferment, and very probably more than one. In some animals the secretion appears to be a continuous one, in others it only occurs afterstinuilationof the mucous membrane. Experimentally one may use either mechanical, chemical, or electrical stimuli. Usually the amount secreted begins to increase about one hour after food, and gradually rises to about the third hour, when it falls again. Very little is known as to nervous influences exerted on this secretion. If all the nerves, passing to such an intestinal loop as has been described above, be cut, fluid accumulates in the sac. Stimulation or section of the vagi seems to have no effect. With regard to the action of the juice on the food, there seems always to be a slight diastatic action, starch being converted into maltose ; but more important is the inverting action trans- forming maltose into glucose and cane-sugar into glucose and levulose. Lactose does not seem to l)e inverted by the juice, although it may be in its passage through the intestinal mucosa. The inverting action takes place in the presence of antiseptics, but is destroyed by boiling. In. the lower jxirt of the small intestine, where putrefactive organisms possess a suitable slightly alkaline medium, the proteids undergo changes which are at the outset similar to those produced by the gastric and pancreatic secretions. That is to say, insoluble albumins are transformed slowly into soluble forms (albumoses and pep- tones), and in all probability this action is due to enzymes secreted by the bacteria. These organisms do not attack unaltered albimiin in the upper part of the intestine, because there they have a supply of albumoses and peptones ready for assimilation. Recently an elaborate sei'ies of experiments has been carried out in order to discover whether micro-organisms are necessary in intestinal digestion, and it has been shown that guinea-pigs which had been born in a sterile medium could live there even when their food was absolutely free from organisms. This of course does not touch the question as to whether bacteria may not be of use in aiding the action of the intestinal enzymes. And again there are substances present in the usual diet which are unaffected by the other enzymes, but are dissolved Ity bacterial action, e.g. celluloses. These nncro-organisms can also break down proteids along different lines from the proteolytic enzymes. In the first place the aromatic radicle may undergo a variety of decompositions. Thus t3-rosin is not only formed itself, but from it other benzol derivatives are obtained by reduc- tion or oxidation, ending with the production of phenol, and in addition there are produced aromatic substances of a different order which are not found in ordinary tryptic digestion, namely, indol, skatol, and derivatives of these. In the second place, bodies of the fatty series are formed often in fairly large quantity, e.g. leucin and volatile fatty acids such as butyric, valerianic, and caproic acids. There is no free oxygen in the intestine, owing to the con- tinual formation of hydrogen and sulphuretted hydrogen from bacterial action, so that any parasites which are present must get it indirectly' from the capillary blood of the mucosa hj keep- ing as close as possible to the intestinal wall. The amount of oxygen which they reipiire is ver}' small. Ptomaines.—There are also bodies of a basic nature derived from the decomposition of proteids which normally are not formed in the intestine during life. These bodies, termed ptomaines, do not appear until about three days after death. They are formed also when the intestinal bacteria are grown in different culture media. As a rule these bodies, which belong usually to the fatty series, are not very poisonous if they be pro-