DERMATITIS TRAUMy^ 309 ATICA ET VENENATA people. Thus to poisons which act with the greatest severity upon sonic persons others may be partially or even completely immune. White relates the case of a child of six years old who died from the effects of severe ivy poisoning produced by having liis skin rubbed while wet by the hands of a boy who had been rooting up plants of the poison ivy. This case is rendered still more remarkable by the fact that the boy had previously washed his hands thoroughly, under supervision, first with hot soap and water, and afterwards with vinegar. The boy who had been working witli the plants had a full and apparently permanent immunity to the poison. Secondly, some persons who are more or less susceptible to the irritant at first may be variously affected on prolonged exposure to its action, becoming sometimes immune to its effects, or sometimes more susceptible. In the second case it is, of course, imperative that the injurious occupation be entirely given up for a time, and if after a complete recovery the patient returns to his employment, he may he attacked again either at once or after a long- period of immunity. For convenience of de- scription the forms of dermatitis may be divided into :— (1) Corrosion of the skin with formation of slough, due to very active chemical substances. (2) Acute inflammations of the skin usually resembling acute eczema, but in some instances restricted to an urticarial oedema. (3) Chronic forms of simple dermatitis which are ipiite indistinguishable from chronic eczema. (4) More or less characteristic eruptions not resembling eczema. I. The agents producing dermatitis of this variety are : The strong minei'al acids and the caustic alkalies, and some metallic salts, such as zinc chloride, etc. The contact of such compounds with the skin is usually the result either of accident or design, since it is obviously impossible that any employment could be followed which entailed constant exposure to the action of such destructive substances. In the case of the acids the effects are usually more circumscribed than in that of the caustic alkalies, owing to the fact that they all cause a coagulation of the tissue albumins and so are more or less self- limited. In all cases the result of the action is to cause a slougli surrounded by an area of intense inflammation. After separation of the slough an ulcer of varying extent and size is left, which is usually slow to heal, and has a special tendency to leave an hypertro})hied scar. The reaction of the slough is naturally intensely a,cid where caused by the action of the strong acids, and in the case of nitric and sulphuric has a yellow colour, more pronounced in the case of the former than the latter. The slough left by the action of the caustic alkalies is of a less hard consistency, and is, of coiu'se, strongly alkaline in reaction. The colour is usually of a dirty greyish white. Tiratment should be directed towards the free dilution of the poison if seen early enough, and the neutralisation with a substance of tlie opposite chemical reaction. After separation of the slough the resulting ulcer should be dressed with some bland ointment, such as Lister's boric acid ointment. II. Tlie agents causing acute dermatitis of the second class may be divided into:— {(t) Animal.—.lellyfisii and allied species, hairy caterpillars and stinging insects, such as hornets, wasps, bees, etc., which all cause eruptions of the urticarial type; the silk in cocoon, which causes an irritable eczema-like eruption on the hands of the winders; and cantharides, which causes bullie if in strong- concentration, (jr a peculiar pustular eruption with hard papules if constantly repeated in weak strengths. (h) Vegetable.—Rhus toxicodendron, venenata, diversiloba, and vernicifera, the first three generally accidental, the last occurring- in the process of the manufacture of Japanese lac(juer, and occasionally in the handling of the finished article ; prinuila oljconica, cherry laurel, aucuba, arnica, juniperus sabina, stajihisagria, capsicum, piper nigra, oil of croton, uuistard, tiu'pentine, and thapsia. The above list, which does not pre- tend to contain the name of every vegetable sub- stance causing dermatitis occasionally, includes those that are most likely to be met with in practice. Besides these there are many mem- bers of the family UrticacCce, as instanced by the common stinging-nettle, which pi'oduce an urticarial eruption. (c) Cheinieal Coinpoitiuh. — Certain aniline dyes, as found in clothing, said to be due in every case to arsenic as an impurity, but prob- ably often due to the mordant, which may be arsenic or potassium Ijichromate. In this con- nection it may be mentioned that a very sevei'c eruption was found on the arms of some work- men, and traced to the presence of zinc chloride in the clothing. Antimonial salts cause an aciite papulo-pustular eruption, but this is not often met with now except in the case of feigned eruptions. Toilet articles and cosmetics have lieen not infrequently found as causes of an outbreak of eczematoid eruption, especially hair dyes which contain pyrogallic acid or nitrate of silver. Ncisser traced several cases of obstinate eczema of the lips to the iise of a dentifrice containing many aromatics and some salol. Pyrogallic acid is sometimes also the cause of eruption on the liands of photo- graphers, but as they are t)ften handling numerous other chemicals, it is difficult to find out exactly the cause in any given instance. Phenyl hj'drazin has lately been found by a chemist experimenting with it to give rise to a very acute vesicular eruption resemV)ling eczema.