76 CATTLE applied to cattle, sheep, goats, all other rumi- nants, and swine. In Scotland, however, the former term includes sheep, goats, and swine. Cattle Plag^ue.—A markedly con- tagious disease, characterised by fever, catarrh (nose, eyes), cessation of rumination, constipa- tion, etc.; rindei-pest. See Immunity {Cattle Plague). Cauda Equina.—The bundle or leash of nerves arising from the spinal cord at the level of the second lumbar vertebra, and including the conus medullaris or terminal part of the cord itself. See Spinal Cord, Medical ; Spinal Cord, Surgical ; etc. Caudate Nucleus. See Brain, Physiology ; Physiology, Nervous System {Cereh7-um). Caul.—If during labour the foetal mem- branes (amnion and chorion) or one of them (amnion) fail to rupture till after the head of the child is born, or if the rupture take place high up inside the uterus, the infant is born " with a caul," i.e. with the head enveloped in the mem- branes ; the sillyhow or caput galeatum. See Labour, Faults in the Passenger {Membranes, Toughness). Cauliflower. See Invalid Feeding ( Vegetables). Causalg'ia.—Neuralgia, accompanied by a burning sensation. See Nerves, Neuralgia. CausiS.—Cauterisation. See Atmocausis ; Zestocausis. Caustics.—Substances which, when ap- plied locally, kill the tissues with which they come in contact and set up inflammation in the surrounding parts; escharotics; instances are found in nitric and sulphuric acid, in caustic potash and caustic lime, in carbolic acid, and in arsenious acid {q.v.). Iron at a red heat also acts as a caustic, as does the galvano-cautery. See Canquoin's Paste ; Cautery ; (Esophagus {Inflammation) ; Toxicology {Corrosives); etc. CauteretS. See Balneology {France, Sul2:>hur); Mineral Waters {Sulphated). Cautery. See also Caustics ; Galvanic Cautery; H/EMORRhage {Caiiterisation).—There are three varieties of cautery: (1) The actual cautery, the application points being usually hatchet-shaped, globular, or flat; (2) thermo- or Paquelin cautery, the terminals being straight, curved, knife - like, pointed, or flat; and (3) galvano-cautery. Heat at which employed.—This may be black, red, or white heat, and varies according to the object of its use. Black Heat.—The cautery is used at black heat as a counter-irritant. This is useful in many chronic affections of bones, joints, and serous membranes, such as spinal meninges, pleurte, bursse, tendon sheaths, in chronic con- ditions of spinal cord, nerves, especially inter- costal neuralgia and sciatica. It is also of service in hysterical conditions, with localised painful areas, and in cases of malingering. Bed Heat.—It may be used at a dull or a bright red heat. (1) At a dull red heat the cautery is used as a severer form of counter- irritant in the conditions mentioned previously, and also as a hfemostatic in cases of hfemorrhage where a ligature cannot be applied, e.g. bleed- ing from bone or tooth sockets, or oozing from a large surface, or in hemophilic subjects. Occasionally it is required when tracheotomy has to be performed through a very vascular growth. (2) At a bright red heat it is not applicable as a haemostatic, the eschar being too weak. It is useful, however, as a severe counter-irritant, and also for touching fistulous openings, e.g. urethra, rectum, umbilicus, salivary ducts, with a view to encouraging them to close. Phage- dfenic sores and the surface of poisoned wounds are often much benefited by its use. It is also employed for the removal of urethral caruncles, prolapse of the rectimi, growing capillary nsevi, cirsoid aneurysm, and also ignipuncture of hypertrophied tonsils. The employment of the cautery for the removal of tumours is now abandoned. White Heat.—This is applicable in all the previously mentioned conditions, except where the haemostatic action is desired. It is the most useful heat to employ where tissue has to be punctured to some depth, as in ignipuncture of tuberculous glands, as it retains the heat for a longer time. Negreth has recommended its use in hypertrophy of the prostate, the gland being punctured from the rectum. Technique.—1. Actual Ca^itery.—When black heat is to be used the button cautery, or Corri- gan's button, is the form employed, a latch key making a good substitute. When the cautery has been heated in the flame of a spirit-lamp until the metal shaft close to the wooden handle becomes so hot that it only allows of momentary painless touching with the finger, it should be rapidly tapped over the painful areas. For red. or ivhite heat the cautery is placed in a fire, and on removal is applied whenever its temperature has reached the desired limit. The hatchet-shaped instrument is used for linear cauterisation, the parallel lines being drawn at a distance of about one inch apart. If the flat form be used it is drawn over the surface at the rate of about one inch a second. For haemor- rhage the bleeding surface is steadily seared by rubbing the cautery over it, otherwise the instrument may adhere, and in its removal separate the eschar, and the haemorrhage may