81 CHALAZION ducts and retention of secretion ; the contents in some cases become chalky {chalazion terrevm); Meibomian cyst. ChaliCOSiS. — Pnenmonokoniosis due to tlie inhalation of silicioiis particles. See Lung«, Pneumoxokoniosis. Chalk. See Calcium {Calcium Carbonate); Gout {MurbiJ Anatomy). Cha.lleS. See Balneology {France; Thermal, Sulphu7-); Mineual Waters {Std- phated). Chalybeate Waters. — Mineral waters containing iron, useful in anfemia, chlorosis, debility, etc. See Chlorosis {Treat- ment); Mineral Waters (Chalybeate). Chamaecephaly.—The shape of head in whicli the vertical index is less than 70'1° (or 75°) ; a low, flat head, due to marked synostosis of the temporal bones with the parietals ; j^latycephaly. Similarly, chamcepro- sopic is the term applied to a face with a small zygomatic facial index, a low face. Chamomile. See Anthemidis Flores ; Pharmacology ; PuESCRiniNCi. Champetier de Ribes' Bag^. See Labour, Operations {Indiiction of Premature Labour); Pregnancy, Haemorrhage {Unavoid- able Hcemm-rJmge, Treatment). Cham pigf non. See Toxicology {Fungi). Chancery. See Lunacy {Chancery Lvnaf/rs in Eui/land). Chancre.—The initial lesion (or " hard sore ") of syphilis, especially when in its classical form (as described by Hunter); the name is sometimes given also to the simple or non- infecting venereal sore. See Syphilis {Modes of Infection, Acquired, etc.) ; Herpes {Herpes Geni- talis); Venereal Disease. Chancroid.—The simple, non-infecting venereal sore; the simple chancre; the soft sore. See Penis, Surgical Affections {Herpes Progenitalis); Skin, Bacteriology {Chancroid, Streptobacillus of Ducrey); Venereal Disease {Differential Diagnosis). Changfe of" Life. 'See Menopause; Menstruation and its Disorders {Menopause). Chaps.—Cracks or fissures of the skin {e.g. on the iiands in cold weather, or round the nipples during lactation), known also as rimo' or rhagades ; they are to be treated by careful drying after washing, by inunction of glycerine or hazeline cream at bedtime. For cracked nipples see Puerperium, Pathology {Sore .N'ipple.'i). vol. II Charas. — A resin o])tained from the leaves of Indian hemp ; churrns. See Cannabis Indica. Charbon. See Anthrax ; Boils and CAHliUN(;LE. Charcoal. See Cahbo. Charcot's Disease. See Joints, Diseases of {associated with locomotor ataxia) ; Ankle-Joint, Diseases op {Tabetic Arthropiathy); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Diagnosis, Cfuircot's Disease); Hip-Joint, Diseases {Neuro-Arthro- ■jxithies); Knee-Joint, Diseases of (JVeuro- Arthropathies); Osteo-Arthropathies {Charcot's Joints) ; Tabes Dorsalis (I'abo-Arthropathies). Charcot-Leyden Crystals.—Octa- hedral crystals found in the sputimi in asthma ("asthma crystals"), and in the blood in leuka3mia. See Blood {Examination, Special, Micro- Ch emical). Charpie.—Old linen, unravelled ; used for surgical dressings. Chart.—A printed form ruled with spaces for exhibiting in a graphic way rises and falls of temperatures, changes in pulse - rate, etc. See Temperature. Charta. — A paper covered or imbued with a medicinal substance, and used as a plaster. The charta sinajiis (mustard leaf) is oiiicial. See Prescribing ; Sinapis ; etc. Chartula.—A small paper folded to con- tain a nie<r[cinc in the form of a powder; rice paper may be used. Chasm US.—Yawning. See Physiology, Respiration {Special Respiratory Movements); Yawning. Chatel - Guyon. ;S'ee Balneology {France, Muriated Water); Mineral Waters (Muriated Saline). Chaudfontaine. See Balneology {IJdlland and ISelgium). ChaulmOOg^ra O\\. — 0leu7n Gyno- cardia' or Chaulmoogra oil is not official in the British Pharmacopana, but is so in the Lidian and Colonial Addendum of 1900 ; it is expressed from the seeds of Gynocardia odorata or of Gynocardia Prainii; it contains chiefly gyno- cardic acid and glyceride; and its dose (given in capsules) is 5 to 20 m. In the Indian Addendum there is also an official Ungnentum Gynocardia'. It has been much used, internally and externally, in leprosy. See Leprosy', {Treatment). Cheek, Fissure of. See also Tera- tology (Face).—Definition.—A malformation of 6