376 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM being found in the blood either normally or after removal of the liver; but if the outflow of bile be hindered, the biliary constituents appear in the blood and are partly deposited in different tissues, partly excreted by the kidneys, giving the urine a brownish-green colour. Physiological Action.—Until comparatively recently it was assigned a very important role in digestion ; but now it is only regarded as of importance in the absorption of fats. It does not exercise any direct deterrent action on putrefying processes so far as can be made out. The digestion of proteids and carbohydrates is practically unaffected by its withdrawal; but only about half the normal amount of fat is absorbed, the rest being excreted in the ffeces. This withdrawal of fat in the fajces allows the action of putrefaction organisms on the proteids, because the latter become coated with fat, and so the action of the pancreatic juice is prevented, and decomposition ensues. So long, however, as excessive quantities of fat in the food are avoided, neither the general condition, e.//. nitrogen equilibrium, nor digestion suffers. It is exceedingly difficult to study the action of drugs on the bile seci'etion, because the flow is such a variable one even under ordinary con- ditions, and as a result of this the conclusions which different investigators have come to are very contradictory. It seems pi'obable that no substance, with the exception of certain of the bile constituents themselves, acts as a true chol- agogue. The pressure of the bile in the ducts can rise to a much greater height than that of the blood in the portal system. The tempera- ture of the blood in the hepatic vein is higher than that in the portal, showing that the cells have been undergoing active metabolic changes ; but of course this applies not only to the biliary, but also to the glycogenic function of the liver. Mode of Origin of Constituents.—The only bile constituent of which we know more or less definitely the mode of origin is the bile pigment. This pigment occurs only in animals which con- tain htemoglobin in their blood. It is certain that the blood pigment is either set free in the liver from the breaking down of red blood- corpuscles, or it is set free elsewhere and carried to the liver, where it is split up into an iron- holding radicle, hsematin, and albumin. The former loses its iron and takes up water to form bilirubin, the iron being retained in the liver, perhaps helping to form hsemoglobin later. A very small quantity of iron is excreted in organic form in the bile, not nearly sufficient to account for the amount present in the hfemo- globin before destruction. After injection of haemoglobin into the blood, there is an increased production of bilirubin; but this does not result in an absorption and deposition of pig- ment until the amount becomes so great that the bile capillaries or smaller bile ducts become blocked. Any agents which can break down the red blood-corpuscles setting free hsemoglobin can produce bilirubinuria if the amount of dis- integration be great enough to produce obstruc- tion in the bile capillaries. On obstruction to the bile outflow, the resultant absorption takes place in the larger bile ducts, through the lymphatics into the thoracic duct. Bilirubin can be formed from haemoglobin outside the liver, as, e.g., in old blood extravasations, haemorrhagic infarcts, etc. The pigment which crystallises out under such conditions was first of all described by Virchow as haematoidin, but it is now known to be identical with bilirubin. There are many other facts which bring out strongly the intimate connection between the blood and bile pigments. Only one of these need be referred to, namely, the formation and excretion in the urine of the important iron-free blood pigment, haematoporphyrin, in certain conditions, e.g. after sulphonal poisoning (.see " Haemato- porjAyrin "). This pigment is isomeric with bilirubin. The chief pigment in human bile is not, however, bilirubin, but biliverdin, which gives the green colour to the fresh biliary secretion. It is rapidly reduced in the intestine, from the action of bacteiia, into hydrobilirubin and derivatives of that pigment. The source of the other constituents of the bile has not been so well made out. (Jholesterin, a constituent probably of every living animal cell, is, like the bile pigment, an effete product. It is derived from the metabolism of the cell protoplasm, and is distinguished by the resistance which it offers to further decomposition, and also by its tend- ency to form gall stones. With regard to the mits of the bile acids, glycocholic and taurocholic, they are the only bodies which can undoubtedly act as cholagogues, undergoing absorption by the intestinal mucous membrane after their excretion into the duodenum. There can be no doubt, however, that this absorption takes place, not in the duodenum, but in the jejunum and ileum. As these acids imdergo partial absorption, alterations in the amount of proteid in the food do not affect to any extent their excretion in the bile. Thus, after increasing the amount of proteid in the food, the salts of the bile acids are barely increased at all in the bile. Their absorption may take place directly into the blood-vessels of the intestinal mucosa, although probably the lymphatics form the main channel. These salts probably play an important part in aiding the absorption of other substances by the intestine—for example, soaps of the alkaline earths and fats. The other constituents of the Vjile are not of so much importance. The body which lends the peculiar stringy consistence to the Vjile, namely, mvcin, is secreted by the gall bladder and larger bile ducts. In man it is a true mucin; but in the ox it is supposed to be a nucleo-albumin. There are also present in the bile small quantities of fat, lecithin, and soaps.