BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS 18 Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of acute bronchitis rarely presents any difficulty. Though it may be abrupt in onset, and even attended with considerable fever, there is not that initial rigor and characteristic disturbance in ratio between respiration and pulse-rate of pneumonia; while the absence of fine crepitation or tubular breath- ing, the normal and exaggerated resonance of the chest, and the widespread presence of coarse rales and rhonchi are sufficient to differentiate bronchitis from pneumonia. Acute pulmonary tuberculosis may closely simulate, and for a time be indistinguishable from, acute bronchitis. High pyrexia and great prostration with early delirium, while not excluding simple bronchitis, suggest acute tuberculosis; the occm-rence of hsemorrhages may assist the diagnosis in doubtful cases (Wilson Fox). It is, however, necessary to bear in mind that bronchitis may be pronounced in the early stages of typhoid fever, measles, whooping- cough, and more rarely variola, scarlatina, and other affections, the indications of which must not be overlooked. Thus the initial lachry- mation, conjunctival injection, sneezing, and rhinorrhcea would lead to the suspicion of measles. Headache, general malaise, the peculiar rise of temperature, tenderness and gurgling in the right iliac region, enlargement of the spleen, the characteristic rose-spots and other indications of tyjihoid fever should be eliminated. The aching in the lumbar region in variola and the sore throat of scarlatina and early appearance of the rash seldom leave one in doubt for any considerable period. Whooping-cough may closely simulate simple acute bronchitis, and, prior to the develop- ment of the characteristic crowing, may be indistinguishable. Treatment.—In the milder form of bronchitis of the upper bronchial tract—tracheo-bronchitis —domestic remedies for a cold on the chest usually suffice, and these only call for mention. The mustard and hot-water foot-bath, the application to the chest of a mustard poultice, or hot fomentations sprinkled with turjjentine, followed by a Dover powder, and an aperient, and some simple diaphoretic mixture such as sweet spirits of nitre, and small doses of ipecacuanha, will often prove sufficient to relieve and shorten the attack. If the patient cannot remain indoors for a day or two, it is necessary to avoid diaphoretic remedies, which render him more susceptible to cold, and involve a risk of converting a slight bronchial attack into the much graver general bronchitis of the smaller tubes, and for this reason a Turkish bath in the initial stages of bronchitis is attended with a new risk. In severer attacks more active measures are needful; and it should be ascertained whether the bronchitis is a primary affection, or secondary to some constitutional condition or other disease, e.g. Bright's disease, which would call for appro- priate measures. In acute primary bronchitis the patient sliould be confined to his bed, and the temperature of the room maintained at about 62° to 65° F. We have seen that the first stage is due to vascular enervation and engorgement of the mucous membrane. Thus the chief indication is to combat the dry and congested condition by improving vascular tone and inducing freer secretion. At the outset a large mustard and linseed- meal poultice should be applied to the front and back of the chest, this lieing replaced by simple linseed poultices after the mustard has sufficiently stimiilated the skin to produce thorough redness. A steam-inhaler, with com- pound tincture of benzoin or tincture of bella- donna added to the hot water, often afibrds relief. A moist atmosphere is not only com- forting to the patient, but seems to materially relieve the dry, hacking cough; but when a steam-lcettle is used, it must be remembered that the steam may condense on the bed-clothes, and special care is needful, by ensuring the maintenance of the temperature of the apart- ment, to obviate the risk of a chilling effect on the patient. During the early period in the attack the drugs that are most relied on are tartarised antimony and ipecacuanha, apo- morphia, or squills, to promote bronchial secre- tion, together with citrate of potash, or acetate of ammonia, spirits of nitre, or some other diaphoretic. If there is bronchial spasm, tincture of lobelia or belladonna, citrate of caffein, chloral, or opium may be added, but should be cautiously used, especially in children and in the old or feeble. As soon as the dry stage passes off' and secretion commences, antimony and the dia- phoretic remedies may be discontinued, and stimulant expectorants, such as carbonate of ammonia with senega, squills, euphorbia pilu- lifera, or small doses of iodide of potassium, substituted. At this stage the preparations of opium and direct sedatives to check the cough which is due to the accumulation of secretion in the tubes should be avoided. When the smaller tubes are extensively in- volved and the amount of secretion is very considerable, the patient must be carefully watched for any indication of cardiac failure or pulmonary collapse. In weakly patients with impaired heart-action it may be necessary to resort at once to alcoholic and other stimulants, such as digitalis, strychnine, or ether. If the bronchial secretions tend to collect in the smaller tubes and pulmonary collapse is threatening, it may be desirable to induce vomiting by the administration of sulphate of zinc or by repeated large doses of ipecacuanha. Depressing emetics should be avoided.