EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC NON-SUPPURATIVE DISEASE 511 brane varies according to the ciiaracter and amount of the exudation, the length of time it lias been present, and the degree of clearness of the membrane. If the exudation is slight and serous the malleal vessels are somewhat injected, and the fluid can be seen occupying the lower part ; its upper level, which appears as a thin dark line, varying with the position of the head ; or if greater in amount, marked bulging, usually in the posterior segment, is seen, perhaps com- pletely hiding the handle of the malleus. On inflation, a disturbance of the fluid can be seen with the formation of bubbles ; or if the auscul- tation tube be used, clear bubliling can be heard. If the mucoid element preponderates, a whitish-yellow appearance of a more or less bulging membrane is seen with dilated vessels coursing over; there is little or no movement observable on posture, and on inflation througli the catheter, as the bag is often not ett'ective, the air can be heard at first in the distance and then gradually to enter tlie tympanum with sticky rales. In the later period of the exudative stage the exudation partly escapes from the Eustachian tube, while some becomes inspissated, — the membrane in the meanwhile becoming pale and depressed, with perhaps localised collections of exudation. In those cases in which exudation is not a marked clinical feature the symptoms and signs are not so aggressive. Deafness, imjjroving on blowing the nose, with gradual return to the former condition, and tinnitus of a rushing and pidsating character, are complained of. The membrane is somewhat depressed, the lining membrane seen through being dark pink in colour. On inflation slight bubbling may be heard, the improvement in hearing produced being greater and more lasting than in the cases of marked exudation. Prognosis.— This, if the case be jjroperly taken in hand, is as a rule excellent ; but if long-continued or untreated, resulting in further changes in the lining membrane, as demon- strated chiefly by the amount of improvement in hearing produced by efficient inflation, ren- ders it proportionately worse ; therefore before giving a definite opinion in long-standing cases it is well to wait the eftect of treatment. Diagnosis.—The cases of marked exudation give definite signs. From a collection of pus they are diagnosed by the absence of acute I'cdness of the mem- brane, chronicity, and the absence of pain and fever. If the exudation is mucoid, a general whitish appearance is seen instead of a yellow or greenish yellow, which is seen wiien the contents of the tympanum are purulent. The crt'ect of treatment will also help. In those cases in which exudation is not a marked clinical feature bubbling is sometimes heard. and tlie lumsually dark and swollen lining membrane seen througli the membrana tympani, together with the persistency of the symptoms and eiTects of inflation, mark them from simple Eustachian obstruction. Treatment.—At this stage, as we have seen, it is possible for the disease to be completely arrested, and no means should be sp;ired to prevent further progress. The treatment is local and general. Those cases in which ixuda- tion is marked will be first considered. If this is slight and serous the treatment adopted for simple Eustachian catarrh will suffice. As before stated, it is impossible at first to say how much Eustachian obstruc- tion is responsible for the collection of exudation in the tympanum ; sometimes cases which at first appear to demand more radical measures yield to simple treatment. In the cases in which simple remedies do not ett'ect a cure, a collection of exudation persisting, and especially when the mucoid element pre- dominates, they must be supplemented by intra-tynipanic injections of warm sterile alka- line solutions, such as bicarbonate of soda, five grains to the ounce, or of paroleine. Counter-irritation behind the ear, or massage from above downwards behind the ear and upper part of the neck, may also be used. If these measures do not suffice, the membrane must be opened, perhaps more than once, as the incision speedily closes in spite of inflation. The incision must be made under strict anti- septic precautions, through the part in which the bulging is most marked, or, if no bulging is present, in the posterior and inferior segment; it should be free and parallel to the handle of the malleus. At the time of incision inflation should be practised to clear the middle car, the exudation being then gently mopped out. The meatus should then be lightly plugged witli the antiseptic dressing. The simple treatment of the nose and naso-pharynx with the chloride of ammonium inhaler and nasal solution should be continued meanwhile, ilassage by means of Siegle's speculum will be found useful in hasten- ing absorption and preventing adhesions. Change of air to a high and dry climate with tonics is often very beneficial. In those cases in which exudation is not marked, simple treatment, regular inflation, massage of the membrane, together with tonics and change of air, will usually be found suffi- cient. In these cases, again, local trouble in the nose or naso-pharynx must also be removed. 2. Steiges of Froliferedion and Contraction.— In discussing the following stages they merge so gradually, one into the other, that it is impossible to separate them completely, the progress of the cases being judged according to the amount of improvement obtained by treat- ment and the changes present in the membrane. We may discuss the stages of proliferation and