DIPHTHERIA 392 once the patient begins to improve, recovery, which is always complete, progresses quickly. There does not appear to be any relation between the severity of the paralysis and the interval of time that elapses between the attack of diphtheria and the onset of paralysis. But in generalised cases the more rapidly the paralysis spreads the more likely is the issue to be fatal. The introduction of the antitoxin treatment has had a marked eft'ect upon the incidence of paralysis. On the whole this has been increased, probably because a larger number of severe cases are tided over the acute stage of the attack of diphtheria. Indeed, this increased incidence has taken place entirely in those cases brought under the treatment at a late stage. Amongst cases treated early the incidence has diminished very considerably. According to Woollacott {Lancet, 26th August 1899) large doses of antitoxin (4000 units and upwards) are probably more efit'ective than small in preventing paralysis and lowering its mortality. The much and rightly dreaded cardiac com- plications are usually met with from the end of the first to the fifth or sixth week; but in paralytic cases they may arise later. The most common is dilatation, which leads to irregularity and attacks of syncope. When acute, the dilatation is accompanied by vomiting and severe epigastric pain. Irregular rhythm, tachy- and bradycardia may also occur with, but also independently of, dilatation. All these conditions are very grave ; apart from a fatal issue they are apt to persist for a considerable time in spite of careful treatment. An'i^mia is a frequent sequel of an attack of diphtheria. A marked relapse occurs in about 1 per cent of the cases. As a rule it is not so severe as the primary attack. Secondary attacks of sore throat, not clinically diphtheria, are still more common. Probably they are of the nature of relapses. Second attacks, occurring after several months or years, are not uncommon. It is probable that an attack of diphtheria confers little, if any, lasting protection against another attack. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology. — The essential cause of diphtheria is a bacillus, often called, after its discoverers, the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus. This organism, either itself exciting an inflammation of a mucous surface or cutaneous wound, or, less frequently, becoming active in an inflammation previously set up by some other agent, gives rise to an exudation which in the majority of cases is distinctly membranous. Membrane.—To some mucous svirfaces, especially that of the fauces, this membrane is very closely adherent. Consequently, it is with difficulty separated therefrom, and its removal is often attended with bleeding. But to the mucous surface of the nasal fossse, larynx, trachea, and bronchi, it is as a rule much less closely attached. When the membrane has separated naturally, breaches of the underlying structure are left which are usually slight, though occasionally they are both deep and extensive. Microscopi- cally the false membrane consists of a hyaline fibrinous matrix, having either a granular or fibrillated appearance, in which a leucocyte can here and there be seen. It may also be dis- tinctly laminated. When it is closely adherent to the mucous membrane, the latter is more or less deeply infiltrated with fibrin and leucocytes, and its epitheliiun is necrosed and incorporated with the false membrane. Beneath the infiltrated layer the tissues exhibit the appearances of in- flammation. Micro - organisms present. — The diphtheria bacilli are found upon the surface of the false membrane, usually in a continuous layer. Occasionally they penetrate as deeply as the mucous membrane. Other micro-organisms are also present, especially strepto- and staphylo- cocci, and they may be found invading the adjoining mucous membrane. Exceptionally the Klebs - Loeffler bacilli are found in the lymphatic glands, spleen, lungs, and other organs, and also in the blood. Probably this general invasion of the body takes place shortly before death, when all resistance to the entrance of the bacilli has been overcome. Gross pathological changes.—In most cases an autopsy reveals to the unaided eye little bej^ond the local lesions. The skin, heart-muscle, and kidneys may be unusually pale. The cervical and occasionally other lymphatic glands are inflamed. Microscopically the heart-muscle is found to have undergone a fatty degeneration more or less extensive. Sometimes also there is a similar change in the renal epithelium ; but the lesions of nephritis are rare. In cases fatal during paralysis there is degeneration of the affected nerves. These changes are found mostly in the peripheral nerves. There is a breaking up and disappearance of the white substance of Schwann, followed by a degenera- tion of the axis-cylinder. The Bacillus.—The bacillus of diphtheria is a rod-shaped, non-motile, polymorphous organism. It varies in length from about 1"5 to 6 fi,. Often its protoplasm does not stain uniformly, and hence the bacilli have a beaded appearance. The longer forms are frequently clubbed at one end, and slightly curved. The shorter forms may be wedge-shaped. Usually the bacilli are irregularly grouped together; but they may, especially the shorter forms, be arranged in pairs, and groups may be seen of several pairs disposed parallel to one another. They do not form spores. They can be artificially cidtivated in various media. Their size and appearance depend considerably upon the medium and method of cultivation. There is another bacillus met with in cases of diphtheria, as well as in other throat affections. It is a short, wedge-shaped,