DIPHTHERIA 390 Any one of these symptoms may occur earlier, or be more prominent than the others. At intervals of a few houi's there are in some cases attacks of vu-gent dj^spnoja, in which the patient be- comes much distressed and cyanosed. These attacks, which arise and pass off suddenly, are usually due to spasm of the laryngeal sphincter. They may, however, be due to temporary blocking of the larynx by a piece of loose membrane. If the diphtherial process spreads to the trachea and bronchial tubes there is advancing and permanent dyspnoea and lividity, and the patient dies of suffocation. On the other hand, it is not at all infrequent, even amongst cases not treated with antitoxin, for the progress of the disease to be arrested at the larynx, and the patient to recover without any urgent symptoms of laryngeal obstruction. In a few cases casts of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi may be coughed up. Lastly, it must be remembered that the larynx and respiratory tract below may be invaded without there being any symptoms to point to such an event. This masked form of the disease is especially met with in very severe cases of faucial diphtheria, the laryngeal being obsciired by the extreme severity of the other symptoms. But it may also be observed in less severe cases amongst adult patients. In them the width of the respiratory tract allows of the formation of membrane without interference with respiration, and it is not vmtil the bronchioles become blocked that dyspnoea arises. In these cases, however, there is usually aphonia, which is therefore an extremely grave symptom in diph- theria of adults. In rare cases there is expectoration of casts of the trachea and bronchi, with absence of any such signs as characterise obstruction of the larynx or the respiratory tract below it. In diphtheria of the conjunctiva, membrane forms upon the palpebral, rarely upon the ocular conjunctiva. The eyelids are swollen. The cornea may become inflamed and ulcerated; perforation may result, leading to pan-ophthal- mitis (vide "Conjunctiva"). In vulval diphtheria the labia minora and the inner surfaces of the labia majora are covered with ashy grey mem- brane, which may spread into the vagina. There is intense inflammation of the external genitalia and swelling of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. The constitutional symptoms are severe, and are similar to those present in the faucial form. Diphtheria of other mucous membranes is rare. Wound diphtheyia occurs in two forms. In one the membranous exiidation appears upon a previously existing wound; in the other the wound is caused by accidental inoculation with the diphtheria bacillus. A small chronic abscess is the result. In severe cases of diphtheria, especially of the faucial variety, the local exudation may persist for three or four weeks. In rare cases of the faucial, nasal, and laryngeal forms the local affection may be of much longer duration, two to sis months. Such cases are termed prolonged dijjhtheria. They commence in the same manner as do the ordinary cases. The larynx may become involved after the faucial affection has lasted some weeks. Except in the nasal form a fatal termination is common. Associated Symptoms. — A few words are required concerning certain symptoms and con- ditions more or less common in the severer forms of diphtheria. Albuminuria is found in from 50 to 75 per cent of the cases. It may appear at any time during the first three weeks, sometimes later. Most commonly it is observed about the fourth day. Its duration and amount are very variable. Its presence is of importance as roughly indicating the extent to which the absorption of the diphtherial toxins has been carried. The more persistent albuminuria, and the greater the quantity of albumin, the more severe is the case, and the more likely is paralysis or cardiac irregularity to follow. Except in one other particular, the condition of the urine does not deviate from the normal. We refer to the diminution of the daily quantity. In most severe cases this occurs to a certain extent; but there may be complete suppression of urine. Usually this condition comes on about the sixth or seventh day. With it there are frequent vomiting, algidity, and cardiac failure. Death occurs after two to four days of total suppression. Occasionally fatal suppres- sion arises in patients w-ho appear to be recovering from the attack of diphtheria. Ha'morrhngic dljihtheria. — In some severe cases after a few days' illness cutaneous and subcutaneous hsemorrhages appear, together with a constant oozing of blood from the nose, pharynx, and gums, hrematemesis and melffina. These cases are almost invariably fatal. Hsemor- rhages are found post-mortem in the retro- pharyngeal and peritoneal tissues, beneath the pleuras and mucous membrane of the stomach, and into the lungs, cardiac and voluntary muscles. In rare cases a purpuric condition arises during the period of convalescence. During the acute stage of diphtheria there is a marked increase in the number of leucocytes in the blood. This condition disappears during convalescence. Complications.—With the exception of paralysis and certain cardiac complications, these usually arise during the period of the local affection. The most common arc otitis media (in about 7 per cent of all the cases), lobular pneumonia (3 per cent, especially in laryngeal diphtheria), and cervical adenitis, cellulitis, and abscess. Lobar pneumonia, neph- i-ltis,convulsions, endocarditis, venous and cardiac tlirombosis, embolism, p>y(!emia, and erythematous rashes are rarely met with. Though the local