CHEST, CLINICAL INVESTIGATION OF THE 84 be made with two bars of malleable metal con- nected posteriorly by means of a rubber hinge. The two bars, being moulded round the chest, and their point of intersection marked, they can then be detached and placed upon paper and an accurate tracing obtained. The out- line of the adult chest is seldom symmetrical. Employments which cause individuals to assume certain positions or to use a certain set of muscles constantly are very prone to cause variations in the shape of the chest, without these variations having any direct pathological significance. The circumference of the right side is, as a rule, larger than the circumference of the left; in a small number of cases the left is the larger. In the adult the lateral diameter exceeds the antero-posterior; in the child the chest is more circular in form, the two diameters being about eqiial. Alterations in Size and Sha'pe, etc.— In emphysema the chest presents a characteristic appearance, the neck appears shortened, the shoulders elevated, and the back rounded; there is a bilateral increase of the chest, the outline tending to assume the circular form seen in childhood. The chest is often de- scribed as "barrel-shaped." In the "alar" or " phthisical chest" we find sloping shoulders, prominent thyroid cartilage, deep hollow over the episternal notch, and prominent scapulse. Here the antero-posterior diameter in the upper two-thirds is much shortened, and instead of a convexity there is usually flattening. The ribs tend to slope downwards instead of coming for- ward in a normal curve. Unilateral increase of a general character is met with in effusion into the pleura. Localised increase may arise from acute croupous pneu- monia, tumours of the lung, and mediastinal growth. Marked iiicrease over the lower and right side of the chest should suggest the possi- bility of some hepatic affection, while on the left side the spleen should be remembered. In cardiac enlargement, especially when the en- largement has developed during childhood, there may be marked bulging or increase in the pre- cordial region ; the bulging from aortic aneurism and pericardial effusion should also be borne in mind. The deformities of the chest {q.v.) may also cause bulging, especially the apparent uni- lateral alteration due to spinal curvature. Unilateral diminution may result from chronic fibroid phthisis, or from old-standing pleurisy or empyema. If the fluid in the pleural cavity be not evacuated before changes have taken place in the lung and pleura, the correspond- ing side of the chest-wall becomes retracted, secondary to a collapse of the lung. Local flattening may be noticed below the clavicle as a result of diminished functional activity of the upper lobes, which is usually associated with some organic lesions of a tuberculous nature. In children depression of the chest- wall may follow collapse or chronic interstitial pneumonia. Before concluding the inspection of the chest the presence or absence of enlarged or pulsatory blood-vessels at the base of the neck should be observed. In emphysema and chronic bronch- itis the vessels are distended, and a pulsation in the jugular veins is met with in cases of tri- cuspid regurgitation. Pressure on the superior vena cava and innominate veins from aneurism or intrathoracic new growth produces tortuosity of the veins above the clavicles and the engorge- ment of the veins of the trunk and limbs. The Movements—1. Lungs.—In health these are respiratory and circulatory. The points to note in regard to the respiratory movements are—The rate of respiration. The average of this is 14 to 18 per minute in the adult, in the child more rapid, about 40 per minute at birth, but gradually slowing as age advances. In health the ratio between heart-beats and respira- tory movements is 4 to 1. Dyspnoea, or difficulty in breathing, is a com- mon and distressing condition in chest affections. Any cause which prevents the proper oxygena- tion of the blood in the lungs will produce the siibjective feeling of difficulty of breathing, and the objective signs of increased respiratory effort. The error may be in the respiratory tract, sufficient oxygen not reaching the pul- monary capillaries, in an insufficient flow of blood through the lungs, as in valvular disease of the heart, in the blood itself being unable to take up sufficient oxygen for the needs of the body, as in advanced anaemia. Dyspnoea may thus be both inspiratory and expnratory. It may be for the most part expiratory, as in emphysema, when the lung has lost its elastic power, or when a tumour obstructs the glottis during expiration. Inspiratory dyspnoea is seen when there is obstruction to the entrance of air at the glottis, as in membranous laryngitis, spasm, paralysis of the dilator muscles of the glottis, etc. When from difficulty of breathing the patient assumes the upright position the condition is termed orthopnoea, the position being assumed to give the extraordinary muscles of respiration the fullest possible play. 2. The rhythm of the respiratory movements is in health perfectly regular; in disease this regularity may disappear. A peculiar type of irregularity, known as Cheyne-Stokes' respiration, may be met with in advanced cardiac and renal disease and in cerebral affections. In health the relative duration of inspiration and expira- tion is in the ratio of 5:6. In disease this proportion may be lost. If there be an ob- struction to the entrance of air into the chest, inspiration will be prolonged. There is marked prolongation of expiration when there is diffi- culty in expelling the air from the chest, as in asthma and emphysema. 3. The type of the respiratory movement differs