80 CEREBRUM Cerebrum. See Brain, Physiology ; Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels ; Brain, Tumours ; Brain, Atrophy, Hypertrophy, Cysts, Inflammations ; Brain, Surgery of. See also under Alcoholism ; Arteries, Diseases OP ; Athetosis ; Bed-Sorbs ; Fluids, Examina- tion [Cerehro-S^nnal); Gout (Irregxdar, Nervous System) : Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Symptomatology^ Embolic Process); Hydro- cephalus ; Insanity, Pathology of ; Lymphatic System, Physiology {Central Nervous System); Meninges of the Cerebrum ; Meningitis, Tuber- cular ; Meningitis, Epidemic ; Mental Defici- ency ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation {Intra-Cranial Complications); Nose {Cerebro- spinal Rhinorrhoea); Paralysis ; Physiology, Central Nervous System ; Pneumonia {Corn- plications) ; Rheumatism {Nervous Affections); Spine, Surgical {Lumbar Puncture); Syphilis ; Tabes Dorsalis; Temperature {Nervous Origin); Tetanus ; Tetany ; Unconsciousness. CereSOle Rea,le. See Balneology {Italy, dialyheate and Arsenical). Cerium. — The oxalate {Cerii Oxalas) is official, and is given in doses of from 2 to 10 grains, especially in the vomiting of pregnancy ; it is insoluble in water. See Pregnancy, Affec- tions AND Complications {Digestion). "Cerolin."—A proprietary preparation, called in England ceridin, said to contain the active principle of beer yeast, and to do good in boils and acne, etc.; it is given in pill form (dose, \\ grain). CerotiC Acid.—An oxidation product of pai'affin, produced by prolonged boiling with sulphuric acid and solution of bichromate of potash ; its formula is C^jH^^Og. Certification. See Insanity, Treat- ment ; Lunacy ; Medical Practitioner ; Medicine, Forensic {Certification of Deaths). Cerumen.—The secretion of the external auditory meatus and of its ceruminous glands; it contains potash, oil, stearin, a reddish pig- ment, etc.; and it prevents the easy passage of insects into the ear; ear-wax. See Ear, Ex- ternal, Diseases of {Almorrnal States of the Cerumen). Excess of the cerumen (and its results) is called cer-uminosis. Cervica.1.—Belonging to the neck, e.g. to the vertebral column in the region of the neck, to structures in the same neighbourhood, or to the neck (cervix) of the uterus. In compound words it appears as cervico, e.g. cervico-brachial, cervico - bregmxitic, cervico - vaginal, etc. See Acromegaly {Cervical Kyphosis); Brachial Plexus {Surgical Affections of) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology ; Nerves, Neuralgia {Cervico-Occipital); Syringomyelia {Paralysis of Cervical Sympathetic); Uterus, Inflammations {Cervical Catarrh). Cervix.—The neck-like part of any organ or structure, e.g. cervix uteri {q.v. infi-a), cervix femoris, cervix vesicse. Cervix Uteri. See Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus). See also Abortion {Treat- ment, Restraint of Uoimorrhage); Chorea {Chorea Gravidarum, Treatment); Gonorrhosal Infec- tion {Endocervicitis); Gynecology, Diagnosis IN; Labour, Physiology of ; Labour, Stages AND Duration ; Labour, Management ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages); Labour, Injuries to the Genera- tive Organs ; Labour, Operations ; Menstrua- tion AND ITS Disorders {Stenosis of the Cervix, etc.); Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Prolapse); Pregnancy, Physiology ; Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications (Vomit- ing) ; Pregnancy, H.emorrhage {Accidental, Placenta Prcevia, Plugging) ; Puerperium, Physiology ; Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, Mucous Plug in Cervix); Sterility {Causes, Cervical Atresia); Syphilis {Acquired); Uterus, Malformations ; Uterus, Displace- ments ; Uterus, Inflammations ; Uterus, Non- Malignant Tumours ; Uterus, Malignant Tumours. Ceryi. — A hydrocarbon radicle (C27H55); ceryl alcohol (CgyH^^OH) is obtained from Chinese wax (ceryl cerotate, C^^HjogO^,) by saponifying it; cerylene (CgyHj.,^) is got (along with cerotic acid) by the distillation of the same substance (Chinese wax). Cesspools. See Sewage and Drainage {Ces.?pools); Typhoid Fever {Etiology, Sewage Emanations). CestOdeS (Cestoidea). See Para- sites {Cestodes). Cetaceum.—Cetaceum or Spermaceti is a solid crystalline fat, obtained (mixed with oil) from the head of the Physeter macrovephalus or sperm whale ; it consists of cetyl palmitate or cetine (CmHgyCjoHgjOg); by saponifying it, cetyl alcohol or ethal (CjijHgjOH) is got. Cetaceum is insoluble in water, but soluble in ether, chloro- form, or alcohol (boiling). The official prepara- tion is Unguentum Cetacei, and it is used in the making of ointments. See Prescribing. Cevadilia. See Veratrine. Ceylon Sore Mouth. See Sprue. Chain. See Ehrlicii; Immunity; etc. Chalazion. See Eyelids, Affections OF {Glands of the Lids).—A tumour developed in the eyelid due to inflammation of one or more Meibomian glands from blocking of the