305 DERMATITIS HERPETIFORMIS being now regarded as not essentially connected with pregnancy or the puerperal state, Jamieson thinks that its inclusion xnider dermatitis herpetiformis would tend to simplify our con- ceptions. Dermatitis herpetiformis is essentially a chronic afi'ection extending over several months or years, with relapses and recurrences at vary- ing intervals, the skin inflammation being a superficial one, and the lesions showing a marked tendency to " herpetiform" grouping, i.e. for various vesicles to form closely aggregated on a common erythematous base. In different attacks the typo of the disease may vary. Itching, burning, or pain is almost invariably present, the first being the commonest form of dysii!sthesia, and often of intolerable intensity. All are agreed that the disease is essentially of neurotic origin, and occurs in persons of nervous temperament, while a certain proportion of its subjects become insane. Oddly enough, the general health in mild cases, or during the early stages, is often practically unimpaired. Symptoms.—The onset of dermatitis herpeti- formis is often preceded for several days by loss of appetite and malaise, sensations of chilliness or flushing, and constipation. The temperature may be raised a degree or two before the cutaneous eruption appears, and there is often considerable preliminary itching sine lesione. After the eruption has appeared these symp- toms usually increase in intensity, and serious constitTitional symptoms may occur, especially in the bullous and pustular forms. Such cases are, however, certainly infrequent, the general health being usually but very little affected. The rash is always bilateral, and usually fairly accurately symmetrical; it may occur on any part of the body, but is most frequently ob- served on the flexor surfaces of the arms and wrists, on the abdomen and outer sides of the thighs. The lesions at first consist of rose-red erythematous patches or slightly raised papules ; these rapidly coalesce to form plaques, which are often circular and average about half an inch in diameter. These circular patches or plaques present a raised red margin, and their centre soon becomes flattened, depressed, and of purplish colour, the appearance closely resem- bling that of the lesions of erythema circinatum. After a day or two vesicles or bulla; form on the spreading margin, some cases thus simu- lating a herpes iris (Hallopeau); the vesicles vary in size from a millet seed to a pea, or may even become as large as an inch in diameter. In rare cases biillfe may develop in the centre of the patches, and both bulla; and vesicles may form indopendently of erythema. On the other hand, the erythematous patches do not neces- sarily vesicate or bullate. While the eruption is developing very marked pruritus is almost always present, and ephemeral urticarial wheals sometimes manifest themselves. VOL. II As the vesicles continue to appear, the itching is supplanted by feelings of burning, pricking, or actual pain, only relieved by the escape of the fluid contents of the lesions; this evacua- tion does not, as a rule, occur spontaneously, but as the result of the rubbing or scratching of the patient. The vesicular contents are usually clear and serous, but may become puru- lent. Contiguous vesicles tend to coalesce, form- ing irregular, multilocular blebs, which assume a withered, puckered appearance as they begin to disappear. Finally the erythematous base upon which the blebs originally formed may disappear, the surrounding skin showing no sign of inflammation. When the vesicles are small, and the erythematous base persists, the resemblance to herpes zoster is considerable, and many cases reported as bilateral or universal zoster are undoubtedly of this nature. Appearances such as have been described occur in successive crops either in rapid succes- sion or at intervals of several weeks, but in any given case lesions of various ages (wheals, erythema, papules, vesicles, buUfe, and scales or scabs) are always present simultaneously dvu'ing an attack, although one or other elemental lesion usually predominates. As a rule itching is more severe in the vesicular and bullous types than in the other varieties of the disease, and in the vesicular cases the intervals of quiescence between the attacks are usually short, the duration of the disease generally very protracted. In the majority of cases only some macular pigmentation remains after the sub- sidence of the eruption ; but in exceptional in- stances, observed by the writer, minute, shallow atrophic pits, hei-petiform in arrangement, have remained as evidences of former attacks, facili- tating diagnosis in some dubious cases. The bullouK type is signalised by the sudden- ness of development of round or irregular tense blebs with very little erythema; but minute vesicles or pustules and a few papules are generally also present. When the blebs burst or are broken they dry up, forming yellowish scabs or crusts, which drop ofi^, leaving pig- mented patches. If blebs appear in rapidly successive crops, considerable infiltration of the skin may ensue and subjective symptoms may be very troublesome. The general condition may be unaffected, but there is generally a certain amount of pyrexia with chilliness and furred tongue. The multiform type is characterised by the coexistence of the several types already de- scribed, and is \nidoubtedly the most frequent and typical form of dermatitis herpetiformis. No further description of it seems necessary here, but a word must be said regarding Hydroa (vel herpes) gestationis, which by universal con- sent is now regarded as a form of dermatitis herpetiformis occurring either during pregnancy or the puerperium. It seldom appears before 20