236 CORNEA The dendritic ulcer is a well-defined variety of sviperficial corneal ulceration. It is generally seen as a groove in the cornea consisting of a central stem with small buds or branches at each side; the ulcer has a tendency to creep over the cornea and spoil a large part of the surface. The ulcer sometimes occupies the centre of the cornea, but in the most char- acteristic cases extends from the limbus as a broad trunk wliich gives oft' branches on each side, the branches themselves ending in secondary branches or buds. In its earliest formation the aff'ection is herpetic in character, the buds have the appearance of small bulla;. The appearance of the dendritic ulcer is very striking and beau- tiful after staining witli fluorescine. It is not known what is the cause or exact nature of the dendritic ulcer, but it probably belongs to the herpetic group; it occurs fre- quently in people who have been subject to malaria, and has been described as malarial keratitis, but in this country it is seen not seldom in patients who have never been abroad and who have never had any form of malaria. It occurs in those who are past the best period of life, or who are temporarily run down ; I have seen it twice in young children, both of whom were much exhausted by prolonged joint suppuration. Treatment must be radical. The course of the ulcer is rarely stopped by the ordinary routine measures, such as fomentations, atropine, compresses. The galvano-cautery at a very low temperature may be used, but there is risk of producing a permanent scar with it; carbolic acid is safer and better, but several applications are often needed. The most effective treatment is absohite alcohol applied by dipping a small roll of lint into the alcohol and ruV)bing the xilcerated surface with it; the epithelium for some distance aroimd the ulcer is removed, but it is quickly regenerated. The only drawback to this very efhcient method, which we owe to Swanzy, is its painfulness. An affection closely allied to febrile herpes is the siiperficial punctate keratitis (Fuchs). A number of small grey elevations appear in the cornea arranged like febrile herpes in lines or constellations; their number may vary from ten or twenty to about a hundred; grey lines are also seen in the cornea, which are probably caused by exudation into the corneal nerve trunks. There is much photophobia, although the cornea is somewhat ansesthetic. The attack is part of a general catarrhal condition affecting the parts supplied by the fifth nerve ; the irrita- tion clears up in a short time, but the grey spots may remain for months. Local Treatment.—Protection from light, and atropine (see general remarks on Treatment). Recurrent Bullous Keratitis. — A solitary blister sometimes forms spontaneously imder the corneal epithelium, attended by severe neuralgia, intolerance of light, and watei'ing. Sometimes there has been an injury at the spot, and for a time recurrences take place in the same eye, but the aftection is often independent of injury, and the relapses occur either at definite times in the year or at intervals depend- ing on some variation in health ; in some cases the attack always occurs at a menstrual period, though not at each one. Treatment. — Bandage, rest, atropine, some- times tearing off the shred of epithelium left by the bulla, causes considerable relief of pain. Quinine has been advised as a prophylactic, on the assumption of a malarial basis, but it is not possible to predict the onset of an attack. Bulke are sometimes formed in eyes blind from old glaucoma, in which the cornea is more or less devoid of sensation. They also occur upon old leucomata associated with a temporary increase of tension; it may be necessary to do an iridectomy for the cure of the increase of tension if the eye is worth saving. Filamentary keratitis is a very rare disease. Numerous small threads are seen hanging from the surface of the cornea and attached to it quite firmly. The threads consist of a twisted strand of epithelial cells having a bulbous end, and covered in places by mucus. When the threads drop oft" the base heals, but their place is taken by others caused by degeneration of adjacent epithelium. The treatment consists in rest, atropine, and bandage. Kerato-MALACiA.—Infantile Ulceration of the Cornea.—This serious affection occurs in young children who are the subjects of grave disturbance of nutrition, due either to starvation or improper feeding, or to the exhaustion of disease. The first manifestation of the affection is a dryness of the conjimctiva and cornea, and the formation of a small triangular foam patch at the inner and outer margins of the cornea in the exposed part of the eye. This lack of lustre or dryness, which varies greatly in degree, is due to a fatty degeneration of the epithelial cells, and a con- sequent inability of the tears to moisten the surface. Local infection of the cornea through the degenerated epithelium is followed by deep infiltration and rapid destruction of the whole or part of it; the actual organisms present have been found to be streptococci or pneumococci, and the foam patches contain the xerosis bacillus. During its whole course the disease is attended by very slight local symptoms, little or no dis- charge, and scarcely any intolerance of light. Kerato-malacia is rarely present without there being grave disturbances of general nutrition ; the children, if not actually wasted, have an unhealthy, ashen colour; they are, however, for the most part greatly emaciated by constant diarrhoea and vomiting, and in spite of every care they die.