AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF 107 CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT the rectum should lie preferred. The ther- mometer should never be trusted in tlic mouth in young children. The normal temperature shows greater daily variations in infancy than in adult life, but its average level is about the same. There is a greater tendency for the temperature to vary upwards and downwards on slight occasion. A mihnormal temperature is characteristic of atrophy. In wasted babies, therefore, a tem- perature of 98° or 99° F. may denote the presence of fever. Pyrexia is sometimes caused by emotional excitement, and sudden rises of temperature, ai'e often due to trivial causes. Continuous pyrexia, however, is always important. A high tempera- ture occurring between the second and fifth day after birth, luiaccompanied by other obvious symptoms of illness, is a sign that tlie infant is not getting sufficient nourishment. The Nervous System.—In investigating the presence of nervous disease in children we have not only to examine for the usual physical signs, but also, especially in acute cases, to make care- ful inquiry for a history of various suggestive symptoms. Thus we may ask if any change has been noticed recently in the child's disposition and temper, whether he has complained of jjain in the head or elsewhere, or has had piiotophobia or giddiness; whether he is in the habit of screaming out suddenly or sighing heavily or grinding his teeth; whether he vomits or is constipated, and if he has had convulsions. In looking for physical signs we must not omit to notice the physiognomy, the condition of the fontanelle and of the superficial cranial veins, and to observe if the pulse is irregular. The state of the pupils, and the jiresence of squint or nystagmus, of cervical rigidity or head-retraction, are also important. Defects of ordinary sensibility are less com- mon in children than in adults. Pain on move- ment of a limb is important, but is not often due to disease of the nervous system. In investigating any apparent loss of muscular power in a child, we have, firstly, to decide whether it is a true paralysis resulting from the pain which movement causes, from extreme flabbiness of the muscles, or from some mal- formation ; and, secondly, if a true paralysis, whether it is due to a lesion of the brain, cord, or peripheral structures, or is a so-called func- tional palsy such as may be met with in hysteria or as the result of peripheral irritation. Tremor is a rare symptom in childhood, but ciioreiform or athetoid movements are commoner tiian in later life. When it is important to ascertain the con- dition of the electrical reaction in a young child, it is generally advisable to give an anrestlietic. Chill.—An abnormally low state of the bodily temperature, with shivering, etc., as in the cold stage of ague {see Malaria); or the chilling of the body by exposure to cold, or "catching cold" (see Pleura, Diseases, Acute Fie IIri!<y, Etioloijy). C h i 11 i e Paste. See Capsici Fructus. Chimneys. — In the construction of a house the chinmeys should have straight cir- cular flues, separate from each other, and should rise 3 feet at least above the roof; in ventila- tion they are of the greatest use as outlets, but ought not to act as inlets for air (cowls heli^ to prevent the inlet action); their action as outlets is due largely to the warmth of the fire heating the air below, and in part to the aspirating action of winds blowing across the top. In Scots law (Public Health (Scotland) Act, 1897) a chimney (not that of a private dwelling - house) sending out smoke in such quantity as to be injurious to health is a " general nuisance." Chimney-Sweep's Cancer. »S'ee Scrotum and Testicle, Di SEASES OF {Epnthelioinci of the Scrotum). Chin-Cougfh. See Whooping-Cough. ChinOline.—Chinoline or quinoline (C.iHyN) is an alkaloid which can be made in various ways, e.</. from quinine, aniline, or glycerine, and which is closely related to ben- zene and pyridine. See Alkaloids {ComjMsitioH and Character). ChinOSOl.—A proprietary compound of oxychiudline, a yellow crystalline powder, witli antiseptic properties; it is stated that 15 grains of it in a pint of water make a solution equal to 1 in 40 carbolic lotion ; it belongs to the coal-tar series, is non-poisonous and non- corrosive ; if used with perchloride of mercury, both are rendered inert. Chionablepsia.—Snow-blindness (Gr. XiMV, snow, and d/SXupLa, blindness). Chirapsy.—Friction or rubbing with the hands. Sec Maternal Impressions. Chiretta. See Pharmacology; Pre- SCRII3ING. — Chirata is the dried plant (root, stem, leaves) Sivertia, chirata, which has a very bitter taste, and contains chiratin (C^H^gOj^, bitter princij^le) and ophelic acid; it is a bitter, but as it contains no tannin it may be made up with iron. Its official preparations are the Infusum Chiratw (dose, i to 1 fl. oz.), the Liijuor ChiratcB Concentratus (dose, to 1 fl. dr.), and the Tinctura Chiratoe (dose, i to 1 fl. dr.). For Indian Chiretta, see Andrographis. Chiropodist.—A person who treats dis- eases of the liands and feet, but more especially (or entirely) corns and bunions.