DIET 356 ill the meat which soften tlie myosin, and the meat becomes tender again. Meat should there- fore be eaten either before rigor mortis has supervened or after it lias passed off. The connective tissue of the meat consists of the substance called " collagen," which is con- verted into gelatine by boiling. The connective tissue is more abundant in old than in young- animals, and the flesh of the former requires more cooking to convert the connective tissue into gelatine than that of the latter does. Em- bedded in the connective tissue is a certain amount of fat. In some kinds of meat, such as pork, the fat is abundant; in others, sucli as partridge and chicken, it is almost absent. In swimming birds, such as the duck and goose, too, the amount of fat between the fibres is relatively large. Fat so placed tends to hinder the access of the digestive juices to the fibres, and impairs the digestibility of the meat. It is well to forbid such meats to the dyspeptic. The chemical composition of the whole of the meat taken together is approximately this :— Water. Nitrogenous Matter. Fat Mineral' Matter, i Lean . 76-5 21 1-5 1 Medium 73-0 20-5 5-5 1 Fat . 53-0 17 29-0 1 It will be observed that the fatter the meat the poorer it is in water. Fat and water are to a large extent mutually replaceable. Roughly speaking, three-fourths of ordinary meat consist of water. Of the nitrogenous matter, about 1 per cent consists of " extractives," and 2 to 3 per cent of albuminoids, such as collagen; the rest consists of proteid. The objects of cooking meat are (1) to develop its flavour; (2) to improve its appearance by destroying its red colouring matter; (3) to sterilise it and so increase its keeping properties, and diminish the risk of infection by any disease germs or parasites which it may contain. The principles to be observed in carrying out these objects are—(1) to heat the meat to a tempera- ture sufiicient to sterilise it, and destroy its red colouring matter without over-coagulating its proteid ; (2) to convert all tlie connective tissue as far as possible into gelatine; (3) to eff'ect these changes without removing from the meat any of the " extractive " matter to which it owes its flavour. In carrying out the first principle, it should be borne in mind that the red colour- ing matter of meat is destroyed, and the proteid coagulated, at a temperature of 170° Fahr., and that to go above this simply tends to harden the meat by over-coagulation. In striving as far as possible to convert all the connective tissue into gelatine, one must remember that meat is a bad conductor, and therefore the heat should be applied to it slowly, and given plenty of time to act upon the collagen. The third object—the conservation of the flavouring in- gredients of the meat—is to be achieved by " sealing up " the meat by a brief exposure of the surface to a temperature sufficient to sud- denly coagulate all the superficial layers of proteid, and so prevent the subsequent escape of the extractives. The methods by which these principles are successfully carried out in practice are described in the article on "Invalid Cookery," but it may be pointed out here that they are best attained by heating the meat (after the preliminary sealing) for a long time to a tem- perature not exceeding 170" Fahr., and that the method of stewing or braising is more in accord with correct principles of cookery than any other. The digestibility of meat is not improved by any method of cooking. Indeed, it may be laid down as a general rule, to which there are few exceptions, that cooking diminishes the digesti- bility of animal foods and increases that of vegetable products. The truth of this as re- gards meat is borne out by the following obser- vations of Jessen :—• 3^ oz. of raw beef are digestedjn 2 hours. ,, half-boiled beef are digested in '1\ hours. ,, wholly boiled beef are digested in 3 hours. ,, half-roasted beef are digested in 3 hours. ,, wholly roasted beef are digested in 4 hours. ,, raw mutton are digested in 2 hours. ,, raw veal are digested in 1\ hours. ,, raw pork are digested in 3 hours. As has already been pointed out, meat is absorbed in the intestine very completely, only about 5 per cent of its dry matter being left behind. The ease of digestion of raw meat and the smallness of the residue which it leaves in the intestine render it a food of special value in the treatment of certain alTections of the stomach and bowels. It is best prepared by scraping the fibres away from connective tissue which holds them together by means of the back of a knife. The pulp so prepared may either be administered in the form of a sandwich, or, if that is inadmissible, it may be stirred into a small quantity of beef tea. Celery salt is a useful flavourer. Cakes of such beef - pulp, lightly browned on the surface, form the basis of the " Salisbury " cure. The composition of some of the internal organs of animals used as food is as follows :— . Water. Nitrogenous Matter. Fat. Kidney 76-7 16-9 4-8 Liver . 69-8 21-6 5-4 Heart . 62-6 16-0 20-4 Lung . 79-7 16-1 3-2 Sweetbread . 70-0 28-0 0-2 Tripe . 74-6 16-4 8-6