DONOVAN'S SOLUTION 417 Donovan's Solution.—Liquor arseuii et hydrargyri iodidi. See Mercury. Dorema Ammoniacum. See Ammoniacum. Dormiol.—A soporitic or hypnotic medi- cine, said to be amylene chloral or dimethylethyl- carbinolchloral; it is a colourless liquid with an unpleasant taste ; it is to bo obtained in 50 per cent solution, and the dose is from 0'5 to 3 grams (8 to 45 grains). Dorsad.—Towards the dorsal region. Dorsal or Dorsal is. See Aneurysm {Lowe)' Limb, Dorsal Artery); Arteries, Liga- ture OF (Borsalis Pedis); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affectioxs of [Dorsal JVerves); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies); etc. DorSO-. — In compound words dorso- signiHes relating to the back, e.g. dorso-lumbar, etc. The expressions dorso-anterior and dorso- posterior refer to the relation of the back of the foetus to the uterus of tlie mother. Dorsodynia. — Muscular rheumatism affecting the upper part of the back. Dosag^e. See Prescribing.—A dose is the quantity of a medicine to be taken at one time ; a maximum or full dose is the largest quantity which can be safely taken, while an infinitesimal dose is one so small as to be regarded as homoeo- pathic. The study of doses is called Posology. Dotagfe.—Senile feeble-mindedness. Dothienenteritis. — Tyjjhoid fever (from (Jr. i^oOiijv, a small aliscess, and 'ivTipov, a piece of gut or intestine). Double Consciousness.—A mor- bid (somuaiiibulistic) state in which there is apparently a double personality in the same individual; an extraordinary case is that of Miss Beauchamp, reported by Professor Prince of Boston (1906). See Unconsciousness {Douhle Consciousness); Criminal Responsibility ; In- sanity, Nature and Sy.mptoms {Delusional, Alternative Personality). Double Monsters. .See Teratology; also Labour, Faults ix the Passenger {Double Alonsters). Double Vision. See Alcoholism {Sensory J'/icnoniena) ; OcULAR Muscles, Affectioxs of {Paralysis, Double Vision) ; Tabes DoRSALis {Symptomatology, Ocular Paralysis). Doubt, Insanity of.—Doubting mad- ness {maladie du doute or rnonomanie raisonnante) is that form of mental disorder in which the patient is morbidly scruptdous about tlie ob- servance of minor details of accuracy in conduct VOL. II or abnormally timid in regard to the common risks of everyday life. See Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms {Insane Defects of Inhibition, Foulie de doute or Swithering Insanity). Douche.—A jet or stream of water, simple or medicated, hot or cold, directed with some force against the surface of the body or into one of the canals opening on the surface of the body {e.g. the ear, nose, vagina, rectum, etc.); the name is also given to the instrument used, and to the act of applying the water or lotion. Air is occasionally used. See Abortion {Treatment of Inevitable); Balneology {Douche Paths; Ilypothermal, Thermal, and Subthermal Douches, Scotch Douche, etc.); Hydropathy {Douches, Ascending, Descending, Spinal, Scottish, Aix, Underwater); Labour, Manage- ment OF {Asepsis); Labour, Injuries {Inversion of Uterus, Treatment); Nose, Chronic In- flammation {Treatment, Nasal Douches); PuER- perium. Physiology {Management, Douching) ; PuERPERiuM, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, Prophylaxis and Treatment); Uterus, Inflam- mation OF {Chronic Metritis). Doug^las, Mechanism of. — A mode of spontaneous delivery, which occasionally hajjpens in the case of transverse presentations of the child left to nature ; described first by John C. Douglas (Dublin, 1819); "spontaneous evolution." Dougflas, Pouch of.—The poucli of peritoneum lying in front of the rectum (in the posterior part of the pelvis) and behind the bladder or the uterus (in the female subject) ; described })y James Douglas (1675-1742), and named after him. Dourine.—A disease occurring in horses, transmitted by coitus (hence the synonymous term " mal de coit"), due to a trypanosome, and in some respects resembling syphilis (angio- neurotic oedema, sclerosis of nervous system, spontaneous fractures, and dislocations). See Parasites {Protozoa, Trypanosomata, Trypano- soma of Dourine). Dover's Powder (Pulvis Ipeca- cuanhas Com posit us). — Contains opium, ipecacuanha, and sulphate of potassium. See Opium ; Toxicology (Opium and Morphine). "Dowsing" Method. ,SVe Hydro- pathy {Hot-Air Applications). DraCOntiasiS. — Guinea-worm disease ; the disease due to the Filaria or Dracnnculus Medinensis. See Filariasis {Filaria Medinensis). DraCOntiSOmuS.—A variety of gastro- schisis ; that teratological type in which there is median eventration of thorax and abdomen, twisting of the vertebral column, and a peculiar horizoivtal arrangement of the ribs (like the wings of a dragon or flying lizard). 27