372 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM acidity. Undigested particles of food suggest the presence of subacidity. Abundant starchy residues associated with good proteid digestion justify the conchision that hyperacidity is present. A certain opinion can of course only be formed with regard to the secretion after a detailed chemical examination. The necessity, however, of a careful pi'eliminary macroscopic examination may be illusti-ated by the following- examples :—In one case there may be found only a small quantity of hydrochloric acid, and yet the macroscopic examination may indicate a fairly complete peptonisation of the food. In another apparently similar case of subacidity, undigested food particles may be found in considerable quantity. If in these two cases an estimation of hydrochloric acid had alone been made, little or no difference in the conditions would have been detected. The consideration of the results obtained by macroscopic examina- tion, combined with that of the results of the chemical examination, shows the important difference that in the former case the quantity of pepsin is much larger than in the latter. The odour of the gastric contents is also of considerable significance. Normally they have no distinctive odour. In certain pathological conditions they have a somewhat rancid smell owing to the presence of free fatty acids. In cases of subacidity they sometimes have a putrefactive odour owing to the decomposition of proteids brought about by the growth of micro-organisms. In cases of intestinal ob- struction or of an abnormal communication between the stomach and the intestines they may have a faecal odour. Mucus in considerable quantities, blood, bile, and pus are abnormal constituents that may occasionally be found. Mucus, if pi'esent in large amount, can easily be recognised by its physical characters, and by the fact that it yields a precipitate on the addi- tion of a little acetic acid. It is usually found in the upper part of the gastric contents when they have been collected in a vessel. The quantity of muciis normally present is small. The Colour.—Blood, when present, may pro- duce either a reddish or brown tint in the gastric contents. In the former case it has been freshly shed, and microscopical examination frequently reveals intact red blood-corpuscles. In the latter the haemoglobin has become de- composed into methaemoglobin and acid hiematin (see " Haematemesis "). Bile and intestinal juice ai'e not infrequently met with even under normal conditions, the bile giving a greenish tint to the gastric contents. The usual tests for its chief constituents may be employed in its recognition. The presence of intestinal juice is proved by testing for the pancreatic enzymes. Pus is very rarely found. It may be re- cognised on microscopical examination, and by means of the chemical tests used for its recog- nition in the urine. In gaseous fermentation of the gastric contents the macroscopic appearances are very character- istic. The gastric contents, when collected in a vessel, show at least three distinct layers. The uppermost layer consists of foam formed by gas bubbles which rise to the surface, the middle layer is a more or less turbid fluid, and the lowest one consists of a sediment composed of fine carbohydrate residues. This condition is found under circumstances which allow stag- nation of the gastric contents, as for example in motor insufficiency. The quantity of free hydrochloric acid is usually increased rather than diminished. In this respect gaseous fer- mentation is in striking contrast with other forms of fermentation, e.g. lactic acid fermenta- tion, which are practically never found except in cases of subacidity. The mixture of gases present is occasionally inflammable. Chemical examination has shown the presence of variable quantities of the following gases:—Carbon dioxide, hydrogen, marsh gas, and acetylene, in addition to nitrogen and small quantities of oxygen. The last two gases are derived from atmospheric air which has been swallowed. Sulphuretted hydrogen is also occasionally found in the gastric contents, but it is not usually found in typical cases of gaseous fermentation. For the examination of vomited material the same methods, macroscopic and chemical, are used as for the examination of the gastric con- tents obtained by the use of the sound. The vomited material may consist of mucus alone, mucus mixed with bile, or moi'e or less digested food material with admixture of any of the pathological constituents already mentioned. In certain cases the examination of the gastric contents after a test meal requires to be supple- mented by a similar examination in a state of hunger, i.e. in the morning before breakfast. The presence of any quantity above 50 cc. is to be regarded as pathological. Quantities above 50 cc. are usually found in cases of motor in- sufficiency or ol)struction, and secondly in cases of hypersecretion. B. The chief morphological constituents that may be noted on microscopical examination are the following:—Undigested food residues, e.g. muscle fibres, starch granules, plant cells, fat globules, etc. ; cell luiclei, squamous epithelium, columnar epithelium, mucous cells, blood and pus corpuscles, small portions of the gastric mucosa, particles of tumours, and various micro- organisms, e.g. yeast cells, sarcina ventriculi, and numerous forms of bacteria. C. Chemical examination of the gastric con- tents.—Prior to the chemical examination the gastric contents should be filtered. The filtrate alone is used for the examination. 1. The reaction of the filtrate should be