DIABETES MELLITUS 335 when a very rigid diet is desirable for diagnosis or treatment. In such cases it must be replaced by various bread substitutes. Unfortunately many of these are ver^' unreliable, and contain either starch or sugar in considerable quantity. Before recommending any specimen it is import- ant to try the effect of a drop of iodine and potassium iodide solution. If the specimen becomes deep l)hie black it contains a large quantit}' of starch and is unreliable. Some bread substitutes contain sugar, and hence it is advisable to test for sugar by the fermentation test in an inverted test-tube. In the most severe forms of the disease, when a very rigid diet is not desirable, it is best to allow a small amount of ordinary bread daily ; in other cases when for diagnosis or treatment a very rigid diet is necessary, bread should be exchided from the diet for a few weeks, and some reliable substitute employed. But after a month or two most patients find bread substi- tutes objectionable, and it is necessary and often desirable to allow a small quantity of ordinary bread. The following bread substitutes have been employed :— (i.) Gluten Bread.—Good preparations of gluten flour are almost unaffected by iodine, and contain only 2 to 3 per cent of carbohydrate. The flour can be purchased and the bread prepared at the patient's house according to the directions supplied by varioiis firms. With care a fairly palatable and reliable prej:)aration may be ob- tained which will be of service as a bread substi- tute, and will cause a reduction of the sugar excretion. But many preparations are very unpalatable and unreliable, (ii.) Bran cake was i-ecommended by Camplin many years ago, but is now seldom used, (iii.) Soya biscuit and bread have been largely used recently. They are prepared from soya beans, and some speci- mens contain only a small percentage of starch (3 to 6), but others contain as much as 30 or 45, and are therefore useless. (iv.) Almond cakes were recommended by Pavy long ago. They can be prepared at the patient's home from almond flour. About 4 ounces of almond flour are mixed into a paste with a little water and German yeast. The mixture is allowed to stand in a warm place for about twenty minutes. Then one egg, beaten up, and a little cream and water are added, and the whole is mixed into a paste, divided into cakes, and baked for fifteen to thirt}' minutes, (v.) Cocoa-nvt cakes may be prepared in the same way by using desiccated cocoa-nut powder in place of almond flour. Both almond flour and cocoa-nut powder contain a small amount of sugar, which is destroyed hj the action of the yeast irsed in making the cakes. Both of these cakes contain a large amount of fat, and hence a little alcohol is often necessary to aid their digestion. Almond floiu" and cocoa-nut powder may be used for the preparation of pudding. (vi.) Aleuronat is a vegetable albuminous substance which contains only a very small percentage of carbohydrate, and which has been strongly recommended by Eljstein. The writer has found that palatable and reliable biscuits can be prepared l)y mixing aleuronat and cocoa- nut powder. Two ounces of desiccated cocoa-nut powder are mixed with a little water and German yeast, so as to form a paste. This is kept in a warm place for half an hour, then 2 ounces of aleuronat, one egg (beaten up), and a small quantity of water, with a little saccharine, are added. The whole is mixed into a paste, which is spread out on a tin, divided into cakes, and baked for twenty or thirty minutes. The Beverages which are free, or almost free, from carbohydrates may be allowed, and they have been already indicated. Alcohol does not increase the sugar excretion, and therefore alcoholic drinks which contain only a v'ery small quantity of carbohydrate may be allowed in moderation. In the severe forms of the disease, alcohol is of service in enabling the patient to take large quantities of fatty food without dyspeptic troubles. The following is a useful lemonade for the relief of thirst—citric acid 10 grains, glycerine 4 drachms, water 1 pint; this may be taken in small quantities during the twenty - four hours; or a lemonade may be made from fresh lemons and sweetened with saccharine. Other acid drinks may be used. The largest quantity of fluid should be taken before, not after, a meal. The Mode of Lu-e and General Hygienic Conditions. — It is important to relieve the patient from mental worry and anxiety as much as possible. Considerable muscular exercise in the open air is of great service in some of the milder cases, and sometimes causes a diminution of the glycosuria, but in the severe forms it is injurious. Massage is of service in some cases (according to Grubc in those associated with arterio-sclerosis). Treatment by Alkaline Minehaij Waters.— The spas of Carlsbad, Marienbad, Neuenahr, and Vichy are much frequented by diabetic patients on account of the supposed virtues of their mineral waters. The salts in the waters of Carlsbad and Marienbad consist chiefly of sodium sulphate and sodium bicarbonate : those in the waters of Neuenahr and Vichy chiefly of sodium bicarbonate. It is useless and often dangerous to send English patients suffering from the severe forms of diabetes to these spas. The long journey has not infrequently acted as an exciting cause of diabetic coma. Arterio- sclerosis is stated by Schmitz to be a contra- indication of the Neuenahr waters. It is certain, however, that patients suffering from the mild forms of the disease (chiefly those which are associated with obesity or gout) do