349 DIATHESIS lous or tubercular, cancerous, nervous, intlani- matory, gangrenous, scorbutic, hannorrhagic. But a moment's consideration will show that this niunber is by far too large. ]\Iany of these arc simply modifications of the same diathesis, others are to be regarded as diseased states rather than constitutional predispositions or diatheses. In this article, therefore, detailed reference need only l)e made to a few, and by this selection an additional advantage is oV)tained in that only those diatheses ai-e described which are more or less readily recognisable by objective ap- pearances. (louty.—In this diathesis the individual pre- sents, at least until the middle periods of life, all the indications of robust vitality and of great bodily and mental activity. The frame is well built and well nourished, though tending per- haps somewhat to fatness. As might be ex- pected, the digestive and assimilative powers are excellent, the teeth are good, the skin of the face is florid, over the trunk it is rather thick with active glandular organs, the hair is abund- ant, showing, however, rather early a tendency to turn grey. Owing to the excellent assimila- tive and digestive power, and the feeling of well-being and fitness which such a diathesis confers, gouty individuals are rather liable to excess in eating and drinking, and a tendency to a more or less plethoric condition supervenes, which in time gives rise not only to the special gouty changes in the fibrous tissues, ])ut to the occurrence of allied morbid changes in the heart, arteries, notalil}' the cerebral ones, lu-inary organs, etc. There is no doubt, however, that in its slighter degrees, should the tendency to excess be guarded against, this diathesis is one which is probably more than any other associated with long life and bodily and mental vigour. Insurance statistics seem to show that a family history of gout is often found amongst the best lives, and the saying of Sydenham that " more wise men than fools have suffered from gout" seems, if properly interpreted, to bear this out. A somewhat gouty habit is therefore not infre- quently an advantage in life. Its disadvantages are indirect, being the result of its tendency to lead to excess, and consequently overstrain of the excretory organs. Rheumatic.—This diathesis is one which to some extent resembles the gouty. The individual is usually well built, well nourished, and mus- cular, having good digestive and assimilative powers. But the blood and circulatory organs seem to present a lack of nutritive vigour. The cheeks are often ruddy, but it is to be remem- bered that this ma}^ mean the reverse of the exuberant health which it might at fir.st sight indicate. Professor Lay cock used always to teach his students to be distrustful of a very healthy-looking complexion. In rheumatic individuals the innate weakness in the blood often shows itself in early life by supervention of auicmia, especially in females, and the corresponding faulty condition of nutri- tion in the heart and blood-vessels Ity endocarditic changes. Moreover, as the result of comparati vel y trifling exposures, the characteristic inflannua- tions of joints, serous surfaces, etc., are a})t to arise. Scrofulonx.—This diathesis, which comprises the strumous and the tubercular, is one in which pi'obably all the tissues and organs of the body have been endowed with an abnormally low degree of vitality, but in which, owing to this cause, the absorbent surfaces and the glandular organs are sjjecially prone to suft'er from the entrance into them of the tubercle organism. Its objective characteristics can probably Ijest be described by following the older writers, and considering it as divided into two classes—{<() scrofulous, and {b) tuberculous (.lenner), or as these have been aptly enough, though not quite correctly, termed, the ugly scrofula and the jjretty scrofula. (a) Scrofulonj<.—Of this the following were the characteristics as given by the older writers •—figure heavy, abdomen large, ends of the long- bones rather large, sliafts thick, skin thick and opaque, complexion dull and pasty-looking, face plain, lips and alie of nose thick, lymphatic glands very perceptible to touch, tenjperament phlegmatic, mind and body lethargic. Although certain distinct diseased conditions have been confused with the diathesis in this description, probably rickets and possibly cretinism, the al)Ove yet forms a picture which is, to a considerable extent, true to life. (b) Tubercvloxt.s.—To this in its turn were ascribed the following characteristics :—Figure slim, adipose tissue small in amount, ends of long bones small, shafts thin and rigid, limbs straight, skin thin and transparent, complexion clear, superficial veins distinct, blushing frequent, eyes bright, jnipils large, eyelashes long, hair silken, face oval, good-looking. Children the subject of this diathesis are precocious, cut their teeth, run about, and talk early. In adults the nervous system is usually highly developed, and the mind and body are specially active, so that this diathesis is practically more or less identical with the nervous. It is not to be forgotten, further, that with it there is often associated a fair amount of muscularity and a considerable amount of physical strength. With it, as with the scrofulous, however, the constitution is faulty and the liability to the supervention of tubercu- lous diseases of all kinds is great. Of the other diatheses the so-called cancerous, the scorbutic, and the hemorrhagic require mention only. The first of these cannot readily be distinguished diathetically (.sec " Cachexia "); the other two are in reality forms of disease. Dia.ZObenzene.—An artificial alkaloid, of a '• double nitrogen type," having the formula