CAPILLARIES, DISEASES OF 53 Ligature.—I think there is scarcely any case in which this method is now required. Excision. — The advantages of excision over electrolysis are its greater certainty and rapidity. The former is slight, because excision may fail, and electrolysis rarely does so. The latter is undoubted and considerable. Excision requires only one operation, electrolysis usually more. In cases, therefore, where a scar is of no importance, and the size and relations of the tumour are not such as to make the operation dangerous, excision is preferable to any other method. II. NoN-Congenital Capillary Angioma is in the simple form rare, most usual in internal organs, of exceedingly slow gi'owth, but with little tendency to retrogression. More common are the venous and arterial. These three varieties correspond to the varieties of najvus histologically. They present, as above seen, differences from nsevus clinically, and to the last belongs that rare affection called osteo- aneurysm. A fourth variety has no analogy among congenital varieties, and to it the name aneurysm by anastomosis niay pi'operly be given. It consists of metamorphosed capillaries in which large cavities are connected with dilated arteries on the one hand and dilated veins on the other. Many of the characters of arterio-venous aneurysm are here to be seen mingled with others more proper to a capillary or venous tumour. In treatment we are here also restricted to electrolysis and excision. The former most certainly should be tried first, as it is practically without risk, and holds out a fair prospect of success. These varieties, and especially the aneurysm by anastomosis, are, however, much more resistant than congenital forms. When electrolysis fails the propiiety of attempting excision must be determined in each ease by the risk. It is always to be remembered that these tumours have little tendency to shorten life, and that ox\\j the trouble they give, chiefly by disfigurement, pulsation, and murmur, warrants interference. Operation by excision is always serious, often impossible. The consideration of the other forms of angioma limited in origin to the arteries, to the veins, and to the lymphatics, will be found in the articles on these subjects and on " Tuinom-s." Capillary Bronchitis. Nee Bronchi, BiioNfiI rr 1 s (Vh ildn-n). Capital, Life. See Life Capital. CapotS.—Cretins ; probaljly a corruption of CaGOTS ('/.('.). Capri. See Therapeutics, Healtpi Re- sorts {-Ita/i/, South). CapriC Acid.—A monobasic, fatty acid (Cj||Ho„0.,) occurring in goat's milk; it belongs to the acetic series (formic, acetic, propionic, etc.). CVyjroiC acid (C^.Vl-^^O^) and CeqjryJir acid (CgHjyO.,) are other acids of the same series. Each has its corresponding aldehyde (C10H20O; C,.Hi..O; G^B.^^O) and ether. Capriii, caproin, and caprylin are fatty substances found in goat's butter. Capsici FructuS.—The fruit (dried) of Capsicum minimum; pod pepper. When powdered it is known as red pepper. The dose is ^ to 1 gr. There are two official prepara- tions : the Tinct'ura Capsici (dose, 5 to 15 ra.), and the Unguentum Capsici (which resembles Smedley's chillie paste). It contains (along with other things) an acid substance (capsaicin), a volatile alkaloid (capsicine), a volatile oil, and a resin. Externally, it is used (in the form of the ointment) as a counter-irritant in inflam- matory and painful affections (pleurisy, sciatica), while internally it acts as a stomachic. Capsule, internal. See Brain, Physiology of; Piiy.siolocjy, Nervous System {Cerebrum). Capsules.—Small gelatine cases, contain- ing drugs (usually nauseous), for convenience in swallowing. Capsulitis. See Liver, Perihepatitis; Cataract ; Lens, Cry'stalline. CapSUlotomy.—(1) Incision of the capsule of the kidney as performed for Bright's disease. ( F/rfe Decapsulation.) (2) Incision of the capsule of the crystalline lens. Caput.—The head (or origin) of a muscle, or of a bone, or of a part of the intestine ("caput coli "), etc. (Vide infra.) Caput Medusae. —In the new-born infant the circum-umbilical cutaneous veins are apt to be dilated and tortuous, on account of stasis in the portal vein; the appearance thus produced is called the Cajmt Medusae See Liver, Diseases of {Morbid Anatomy, ..1 nastonioses). Caput Succedaneum.—The soft swelling (serous infiltration) which forms over the presenting part (vertex, face, breech, shoulder) of the infant in labour. See Labour, Stages and Duration {Second Stage, Pheno- mena) ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism ( Ve7'tex, Face, Brow, and Breech Presentations) ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Con- tracted Pelvis). Carang'idae.—Horse mackerel; poison- ous fish. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes. Carates.—A South American skin disease,