CHOROID, DISEASES OF 141 some weeks, leaving, in rare cases and under proper treatment, the choroid intact; but more commonly, as it disappears, the affected area is found to be more or less atrophic, gradually liecoming whiter, with the choroidal vessels showing up, pigment at the same time appear- ing round each patch and within some of them ; ciystals of cholesterin may be seen with some of the 23atches. Still later the choroidal atrophy presents the appearance of white patches, ringed by pigment, with no traces of choroidal vessels, but crossed uninterruptedly by the retinal vessels. It is not uncommon to find both old and recent patches in the same eye. The in- flammation usually attacks the adjacent retina; indeed, the exudation often extends through the retina into the vitreous. The vitreous is, there- fore, often cloudy owing to the presence of fine opacities. This is more particularly the case in syphilitic choroido-retinitis. The nebulous con- dition of the vitreous not only interferes with the patient's vision, but prevents the details of the fundus from being clearly seen; the exist- ence of cloudiness of the vitreous is, therefore, always suggestive of choroiditis, although hyalitis without choroiditis is sometimes found. Care must be taken to exclude a nebidous cornea, as this will cause a haziness of the fundus very similar to that jJi'oduced by fine vitreous opaci- ties. On the other hand, a hazy vitreous will make the outline of the optic disc appear blurred, and thus simulate papillitis. Pathology.—When a recent patch is examined microscopically, we find a cluster of round and fusiform cells in the lamina vitrea and the chorio-capillaris, with great engorgement of the vessels, and perhaps one or two hajmorrhages. The pigment-layer of the retina is then un- affected. As the disease progresses the cells of the pigment - layer proliferate, and the part which is immediately opposite to the patch becomes absorbed, giving it a white appearance; the pigment becomes accumulated at the edges of the patch, and the inflammation extends to the layer of rods and cones, and the outer granular layer of the retina, with small-celled infiltration. Later, this inflammatory exudation becomes absorbed, and gives place to cicatricial tissue ; but the structures involved — viz. the outer granular layer, the rods and cones, the uveal tract, and the vessels of the choroid — are destroyed, and their place occupied by this new connective tissue. Varieties. — Many different kinds of plastic choroiditis are foimd. The following may be mentioned as those more frequently met with : (1) Disseminated; (2) Central; (3) Peripheral; (4) Diffuse exudative ; (5) Myopic. (1) Disseminated clioroiditis consists of numer- ous round or in-egular spots scattered over the fundus. These pass through the changes mentioned above, and mostly end in patches of complete atrophy. They may become confluent, involving the whole or the greater part of the fundus. The optic nerve may become involved in the process, in which case it becomes first hypera3mic and finally atrophic. This form of choroiditis may easily be mistaken for (juttate choroiditis of Tay (p. 145). (2) Central ehoroiditis consists of exudation in the macular region, forming an irreguLir, more or less circular patch, with consideral)le pigmentation. Vision is impaired, and a large central scotoma is present. This is especially frequent in old people, where a very chronic inflammation, without much pigmentation or exudation, is followed by well-defined atrophic changes. In siicli cases the fenestrated arrange- ment of the choroidal vessels is clearly seen. This senile form is usually bilateral, and must be carefully sought for before the extraction of all senile cataracts, as its presence \vill greatly modify the prognosis. Before a diagnosis of amblyopia is made, either congenital or toxic, the macular region should be carefully examined for central choroiditis. (3) Peripheral or anterior choroiditis is that form in which only the peripheral parts of the choroid are affected. Owing to the outlying position of the lesion, direct vision is but little disturbed, and the disease may be easily over- looked unless the peripheral portions of the fundvis are carefully examined. (4) Diffuse exudative choroiditis, extending over the whole fundus, is sometimes associated with syphilis. Although the whole choroid is affected, yet the deposit of lymph ajapears to assume the form of circumscribed patches, vary- ing somewhat in tint from a yellowish red to white, with pigmentation according to the stage of the affection. It is always more or less obscured from view by fine dvist-like opacity of the vitreous, and not infrecpiently large mem- branous floating opacities of the vitreous are present. The vitreous and the retina may ulti- mately become clear, and then the ophthalmo- scope reveals more definitely the large atrophic patches in which masses of pigment are here and there distributed. Such cases, when they have arrived at an advanced stage, are often difficult to distinguish from retinitis iiigmentosa (see " Retinitis "), for the retinitis secondary to syphi- litic choroiditis tends to simulate that disease. Peripheral retinal pigmentation, night-blindness, and contraction of the visual field occur; and it is only by the presence of vitreous opacities, patches of choroidal atrophy, relative distension of the veins, together with perhaps concurrent iritis or cyclitis, and a definite history of syphilis, that the right diagnosis can be arrived at. The visual field, too, may help, for in many instances there is no peripheral contraction, but a ring scotoma, which is ahuost pathognomonic of syphilitic choroido-retinitis. This kind of choroiditis almost invariably affects the retina to a considerable extent.