6 BROMIDROSIS BromidrOSiS. —A diseased condition of the skin, in which the sweat assumes a foetid odour (/Jpw/xos, a stench). In bromohyperidrosis the sweat is excessive in amount as well as oftensive in odour. See Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands. Bromine. See Bkomu.m. Brom iodoform.—A substitution com- pound of bromum and iodoform. Bromipin.— A solution of bromum in oil of sesame ; vised as a hypnotic in epilepsy, choi'ea, neurasthenia, and hysteria (dose, half to one teaspoonful). Brom ism. See also Epilepsy (Medicinal Treatment) ; Pharmacology ; Toxicology.— The term brom ism is applied to the series of s^-mptoms that are met with resulting from the excessive use of one or more of the bromine compounds. Since the discovery of the sedative influence of the bromides on the central nervous system, these remedies have been very exten- sively used for many nervous disorders, and it is specially in chronic nervous cases, e.g. epilepsy, that the untoward effects of the bromides are seen. The degree of tolerance for bromides varies, as for other medicinal remedies. In some cases the continued use of even small doses—5 to 10 grains—leads to a manifestation of the minor or major symptoms of bromism, while iu other cases very lai'ge doses are tolerated even for lengthened periods. Clouston records an interesting case (vol. i. p. 58) of a boy of eleven tolerating 60 grains daily for two years. The nature of the disease and the idiosyncrasy of the patient are the important modifying factors. The depressing influence of the bromides on nerve and muscle cells, taken with their irritat- ing property during excretion by the usual channels, is responsible for the symptoms of bromism. These may be briefly summarised as follows :— Neuro-muscular System.—A diminished capa- bility for physical or mental work, with occa- sional headache, which may be of a severe character and chiefly in the frontal region, are the earlier symptoms. Later, slight forgetful- ness, diminished mental capacity, general weak- ness of mental faculties, diminution of the palatal and pharyngeal reflex, and in still later stages some disturbance of gait may be present. In not a few cases, however, especially in epileptics, the first symptoms are those of an increased excitability of the brain cortex, amount- ing even to mania (Bromomania). The develop- ment of any such symptom in these cases should therefore lead the practitioner to a careful survey as to the doses and duration of the ti-eat- ment. Cardio - vascular System. ■— Along with the general muscular depression there is more or less evidence of general cardiac enfeeblement. The heart's action is weak and the pulse feeble. The rate may be slightly diminished or increased. A few cases are recorded where death has been atti'ibuted to the stoppage of the heart in dia- stole as the result of excessive use of the drug. Other indications of vasomotor disturbance may be present, e.g. cold extremities and clammy state of the skin. Cutaneous Sy.stem. — An acne ei'uption, most marked on the forehead, neck, face, and trunk, is frequently the earliest symptom to attract attention. In other cases the eruption may be erythematous, scarlatiform, pemphigoid, or even rupial in nature. In children the eruption may pass from a discrete acne type to take on a papillomatous appearance. Other Systems. — The more important symp- toms encountered in the other systems ai'e loss of appetite, foul breath, aniemia, dilatation of the pupil, diminution of the respiratory rate, and slightly depressed temperature. Treatment.—Prophylaxis is all-important. A full recognition of the pharmacological actions and careful observation of patients using these remedies, noting especially the condition of the skin, mucous membrane, and general vital capa- city, will suffice in all cases to prevent the de- velopment of the condition in any great degree. Curative treatment resolves itself into a stoppage of the use of the drug, strict attention to the action of the skin, kidneys, and bowels, and the use of general tonic remedies. Hydro- therapeutic measures are of great assistance, both from their local and general effects. Small doses of arsenic given in combination with the bromides are of some service in diminisliing the tendency to bromism. Liq. arsenicalis is the form most commonly used, but some writers believe that arseniate of soda is the most useful preparation, being less likely to produce any gastric intestinal irritation. Caimabis indica is also frequently used along with the bromides with the object of diminishing the tendency to the production of untoward disturbances of the nervous system. BromoCOii.—A combination of bromine, tannin, and gelatine; it is thought that the bromine is not set free till the medicine reaches the intestines; it has been recommended in epi- lepsy and (externally) in lichen and eczema. Bromoform.—An anajsthetic and hyp- notic medicine (CHBrg) having reactions simi- lar to chloroform. Bromoi.—A proprietary preparation ; dis- infectant and caustic; tribromphenol. Bromomania. See Bromism. Bromomenorrhoea. — An ottensive condition of the menstrual discharge. See Men- struation and its Disorders.