190 COLOTOMY them the transverse colon is brought and fixed. When a spur is required to prevent faeces passing beyond the opening, a clip can be put behind the gut as in the inguinal operation. After-Treatment.—For all the forms of colo- tomy the after-treatment, mutatis mutandis, is the same. After the operation the patient is put back to bed, lying on the back, with the head low and a pillow placed between the knees. The use of opiates is dissuaded, unless necessi- tated by very great pain, restlessness, or severe purging. For the first twenty-four hours as little food as possible is given, the preference being for nutrient enemata, when possible, or soda and milk, weak tea for washing out the mouth, and brandy and water in rare cases of faintness. Several points should be noticed on the first visit on the evening after the operation. Pain in the back may be remedied by turning the patient on the side opposite to that on which the colotomy has been performed, not on the same side. A^ny probable bronchitis may be prevented by the patient be propped up in bed. If wind causes much distension or tympanitis, the bandages should be loosened; or, if neces- sary, the dressings may be removed and the gut slightly punctured with a lancet, so that flatus may escape. The question of the passage of urine should be seen to. The next day the dressings are left undis- turbed, and the diet is still kept meagre and liquid, beef-tea being permissible. The second day after the operation the dress- ings are removed, and the gut is opened by scissors for about one or one and a half inches in a transverse direction of the gut to allow of the escape of wind or fseces. This may be done earlier or deferred, according to circumstances. Any small vessels that bleed are clipped or liga- tured ; slight oozing of blood is allowed to clot, absorbent wool is applied to the wound, and dry gauze is used as a covering. After this, diet can be freer, fish being allowed first. The day after the gut has been opened the bowels should be made to act, castor oil or liquorice powder being administered. Any im- paction or hard faeces that block the way should be carefully broken up by the finger and olive oil injected. The wound is dressed with wool soaked in any antiseptic. Thenceforward the bowels must be carefully kept open. In ten days' time, when the bowels have been well emptied, the gut should be cut across as shown in the description of the inguinal opera- tion. A little later the patient may rise from bed and lie on a sofa, with the colotomy opening dressed with ointment and supported by a pad of wool. Any tendency to contraction about the proximal opening of inguinal colotomy is corrected by the daily passage of the finger into the upper opening, the lower one being allowed to contract as much as possible. Old faeces lodged in the lower bowel may cause rectal irritation. These should be disposed of by irrigating with water into the lower of the two orifices towards the rectum, and then from the rectum through the lower orifice. In a short time the lower portion of the gut will contract and become merely a passive tube. In about three weeks the patient can walk, wearing either a truss or abdominal bandage. The bowels should be made to act in the morn- ing, a kidney-shaped bowl being placed under the colotomy opening. After left lumbar or left inguinal colotomy the motions are usually quite solid. After transverse, right lumbar, or right inguinal colotomy, through which the action of most of the large intestine is stopped, the colotomy opening being so close to the small intestine, the faeces are consequently liquid, or semi-liquid. This after-result tells against the three higher operations, and points to the ad- visability of doing the colotomy as low down the large intestine as is consonant with the posi- tion of the disease. ColOUr-Blindness. See Amblyopia {Hysteru-al); Colour Vision {Congenital and Acquired Colour-Blindness); Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Ocular Anoesthesia). Colour Vision. Physiology of Normal Coi,our Vision . 190 Physical Considerations . . .190 Physiological Considerations . . 191 Theories of Colour-Perception . .193 Young-IIelmholtz Theory . . .193 Hering''s Theory . . . .194 Congenital Colour-Blindness . .195 Historical Considerations . . .195 Varieties of . . . . .195 Colour-Ignorance . . . .196 Influence of Heredity and Sex on . 197 Prevalence of . . . . .197 Acquired Colour-Blindness . . .197 Varieties and Causes of . . .197 Methods of Testing . . . .198 Qualitative and Quantitative . .198 Practical Points . . . . .199 Seamen, Railway Men . . .199 See also Brain, Physiology of {Sensory Centres, Half- Vision Centt'e); Physiology, The Senses (Vision, Colour); Physiology, The Senses {Vision, Colour Sensation, Complemental Colours, etc.) ; Spectroscope in Medicine {Colour). Physiology of Normal Colour Vision.—The complex subject of " colour vision " lies on the borderland between the realms of Physics and Physiology, and an intelligent appreciation of its many problems demands an acquaintance with both the physical and physiological sides of the question. Physical Considerations.—The various physi-