SUPPURATION AND SEQUEL.E 495 EAR: xMIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC and if so, is usually deep-seated and of a peculiar boring nature. Complete loss of hearing may result in those cases where the structures of the internal ear have become secondarily affected. Vertiginous symptoms and tiiniitus are also frequent luider similar circumstances. The main objective indication is the fact that the carious or necrotic bone may be seen or felt with a probe. The presence also of exuberant granulation tissue masses of a vascular nature, and showing a marked tendency to recurrence after removal, is of itself strong presumptive evidence of an iniderlying carious lesion. The periauricular glands also become enlarged at an early period, especially in tuberculous cases. The accompanying discharge from the middle ear has also, as a rule, a peculiarly offensive odour, and may contain spicules of bone, which may be felt with the fingers. It is also at times blood-stained, even when no granulation tissue is apparent. Suppurative Disease of the Recessus Epitympanicus (Attic) Suppuration in this region is held by some to be merely an extension of a generalised purulent inflammation of the cavum tympani, by others to be secondary to a primary inflammation of the mucosa lining the mastoid antrum, or to the extension of such morbid processes as eczema or furunculosis of the external auditory meatus. {See diagram, p. 456.) Whatever its actual astiology may be, the fact remains that disease in this situation is peculiarly intractable to ordinary methods of treatment. The numerous folds of mucous membrane which exist in the atticus tend to prevent the free escape of pus, whilst the fre- quent shutting oft' of this region from the general cavity of the middle ear as the result of inflannnatory adhesions explains the useless- ness of attempting to wash out the part per tuhaiii. The fact also that the accompanying perforation of Shrapnell's membrane is situated high up upon the surface of the membrane, and is also frequently very small, serves to explain the difticulties wliich attend the free escape of pus from the part. The head of the malleus and the body of the incus, being thus constantly loathed in piu'ulent exudation, are prone to undergo carious degeneration. The adjacent bony parietes also frequently become affected, exfoliation of portions of the annulus tympanicus or outer wall of the attic occasionally taking place. Perforations of the anterior part of the mem- brana flaccida are most likely to be associated with a morbid condition of the nose, the Eustachian tube, or the tympanic cavity; central perforations with disease of the external auditory meatus, and perforations in the posterior segment of the membrane with disease of the mastoid antrum. S'ymj/toms of Attic Disease.—The objective ap- pearances consist in the presence of a perforation (usually small) in either the anterior or posterior segment of Shrapnell's membrane, purulent secretion oozing from the part, and in the fre- quent presence of caries of the head of the malleus and body of the incus or of the adjacent parietes, at times visible to the eye, but more frequently to be detected by means of a delicate probe. Buds of granulation tissue are also frequently to be seen protruding through the perforation into the external meatus, and are usually found to be springing from carious foci. Subjective Symptoms. — Pain is frequently present, especially when retention of secretion takes place from blocking of the pei'foration hy buds of granulation tissue, cholesteatomatous masses, small sequestra, etc. Tinnitus and vertigo may also be complained of, and result from increased labyrinthine tension due to pressure of inflammatory products upon the foot-plate of the stapes or to a secondary congestion of the labyrinth. Treatment.—In order to efficiently cleanse the recessus epitympanicus some form of intratym- panic syringe (Hartmann, Pritchard, Milligan) should be used, the end of the syringe being passed well into the attic under illumination. After thorough cleansing various medicaments may be injected into the part by means of specially constructed intratympanic cannula (Blake, Milligan). Where the accompanying perforation is very small it may be enlarged with advantage. In- sufflation of antiseptic powders (Bezold, Gomperz), tamponading (Gruber), and resection of the outer wall of the attic (Politzer, Schwartze) by means of specially constructed forceps, have been recommended by various authorities. The ossicula auditus, if carious (and where local applications after a reasonable trial have failed to arrest purulency), should be excised. By the performance of ossiculectomy not onlj- are definite carious foci removed, but improved drainage is effected and better access obtained for subsequent local medication. After thorough cleansing of the meatus and the instillation of a strong solution of cocaine, the patient being mider the influence of a general ana!sthetic, the membrane, or its remains, is detached by moans of a circular incision. The tendon of the tensor tympani, if still intact, is now divided close to its insertion into the bony process of the malleus, after which its superior ligament is also divided by a fine knife. By means of a delicate incus hook (Kretschmann, Politzer) the incus is brought down, and the incudo-stapedial attach- ment separated, when with a fine snare or with a strong pair of angular forceps the two ossicles are removed. In cases where the incus has already disappeared as the result of prolonged suppurative inflammation of the tympanic