387 DIPHTHERIA prevalence of diplitheria lias led to considerable diversity of opinion. While some writers deny- that these conditions exert any material efi'ect, it is held by others that a soil which is continu- ally moist and impregnated with organic refuse is favoiu-able to both the existence and virulence of the disease. Newsholrne, in the work from which we have already quoted, gives the results of his inquiries into the relation between epi- demic diphtheria, the rainfall, and the level of the </rouml-tvater. The general conclusions to which he comes are abbreviated by himself as follows:— "An epidemic of diphtheria never originates when there has been a series of years in which each year's rainfall is above the average amount. An epidemic of diphtheria never originates or con- tinues in a wet year (i.e. a year in which the total animal rainfall is materially above the average amount), unless this wet year follows on two or more dry years immediately preceding it. The epidemics of diphtheria, for which accurate data are available, have all originated in dry years (i.e. years in which the total annual rainfall is materially below the average amount). The greatest and most extensive epidemics of diph- theria have occurred when there have been four or five consecutive dry years, the epidemic some- times starting near the beginning of this series, ,at other times not until near its end. Dry years imply low ground-water, and we find, there- fore, in the years of epidemic diphtheria that the •ground-water is exceptionally low. The exact variations in the ground-water which most favour ■epidemic diphtheria cannot with the data to hand .as yet be stated; but it is probable that when this is cleared up, it will become clear why, in ■exceptional years which have a deficient rainfall, epidemic diphtheria is either absent or but slight." Newsholiiie's conclusions are at variance with the hitherto accepted ideas concerning the association of dampness of soil and diphtheria; but they are based on accurate records. Talcing up an idea put forward by M. A. Adams, of Maidstone, Newsholrne suggests that the micro- organism of diphtheria passes a saprophytic ■existence in the soil, and that its growth is favoured by a low level of the ground - water, such as would follow a deficient rainfall. The rise of the ground-water consequent upon rains drives the micro-organism out of the soil ; the organism may then become parasitic on man, and an epidemic arise. But this hypothesis, which may account for the autumnal and winter prevalence of diphtheria in England, and for •epidemics which arise in wet following dry years, does not appear to explain the epidemics which commenced in dry years, unless it be that the rains that do fall during the dry years are sufficient for the purpose suggested, or that variations in the atmospheric pressure, apart from rainfall, have the same effect. Moreover, the diphtheria bacillus has not yet been found in the earth. Dij)litlieria does not ajapear to flourish in tropical to such an extent as in temperate climates. There is evidence to show that in some epidemics of diphtheria the disease increases in virulence as the epidemic progresses. At first sore throats of a mild character and questionable nature occur; then in increasing numbers cases present themselves that ai'e undoubted and more severe, even proving fatal; so that it seems as if the oi'ganism of the disease gains in virulence as it is transmitted from one person to another. It is believed by some that throat lesions (e.r/. simple tonsillitis or the angina of scarlet fever) predispose to diphtheria. But the writer ven- tures to doubt whether a throat affection renders the individual more susceptible than does any disease which lowers the power of resisting the attacks of pathogenic uiicro-organisms. Association with other Diseases.—Diphtheria is frequently found associated vnth other zymotic diseases. It appears to have an especial liking for scarlet fever and measles, but it not infre- quently attacks patients suffering from pertussis, varicella, and tuberculosis; less commonly is it found with enteric fever and small-pox. It complicates both the acute and convalescent stages of these affections, and is more fatal when thus combined than when occurring alone. The occuiTcnce of these coincident infections is largely determined by such factors as the age- incidence and prevalence of the diseases con- cerned. Thus we find from the published statistics of the Meti'opolitan Asylums Board that scarlet fever attacks the patients convalesc- ing from diphtheria quite as often as diphtheria does those recovering from scarlet fever. Acje and Sex and Case-Mortality.—The London notifications for 1892 to 1897 show that rather more than one-third of the cases are under the age of five years, and rather less than one-third are between the ages five and ten. AVith every succeeding quinquennium the number becomes very much smaller. Age has also a marked influ- ence on the case-mortality. This is higliest in infants under one year. It then gradually falls up to the fifth year, and after that more rapidly; but it rises again after forty. Before the intro- duction of the antitoxin treatment the case-mor- tality of the patients under five admitted to the hospitals of the Metropolitan Asylums Board was 50 per cent; from five to ten, 28 per cent ; from ten to fifteen, 10 per cent; from fifteen to twenty, 4 per cent; from twenty to forty, nearly 5 jier cent; and over fortj', 17 per cent. Diphtheria attacks more females than males ; this is usually attributed to the fact that the nature of the duties and habits of the female sex render its members more exposed to infection than the male. Modes of Dissemination. — By far the most common mode is by personal communication