194 COLOUR VISION this point, while at the periphery of the retina it is quite absent. Many objections to this theory have been raised. It assumes the existence of a separate nerve-fibre to each terminal element. Salzer found about three million cones in the human retina, while there are only about one million in the optic nerve. Although as to the fovea the assumption is an essential, it is not neces- sary in the retinal periphery; indeed, Helmholtz explained the imperfections of peripheral vision on the assumption that several nerve elements in this situation have one nerve-fibre in common. A further objection — originally raised by Fick and recently revived—is founded on the fact that a small pencil of rays from a distant star appears white, implying, according to the theory, that the image falls on three cones simultaneously, whereas astronomical considera- tions as to distance show that the tiny image cannot cover more than one cone. This difficulty is ingeniously explained by Thomas and Welland, who suggest that the imperceptibly minute ocular oscillations con- stantly taking place in accordance with the rhythmical innervation of the ocular muscles, rapidly but successively expose several cones to the incident rays, and that these rapidly succeeding impressions on diff'erent colour cells are collectively appreciated by the brain as white light. The assertion of Charpentier that this theory does not explain the fact of the central retina being less sensitive to colour than to white light is fallacious, for it assumes that while monochromatic light only stimulates one brain- cell, white light excites three equally, so that the sensitiveness of the retina to compound light is proportionately increased. Other objections against this theory have been urged, but for the present purpose they do not require discussion. Hering's Theory.—-This rival theory—a modi- fication of the Young-Helmholtz — was first propounded about twenty years ago by Hering of Prague. It assumes the existence in the retina of three visual substances—white-black, red-green, and yellow-blue (in each pair one colour being complementary and also antago- nistic to the other), corresponding to the supposition that we possess six fundamental sensations. As in the metabolism of living substances generally, the existence of two phases can be recognised—a constructive, assimilative, or anabolic phase, and a destructive, dissimila- tive, or katabolic phase,—so similar metabolic changes of opposite character in the hypothetical visual substances under the influence of light are presumed to be the causal factors in the determination of nervous impulses, and their psychological expression as conscious visual colour-sensations. Different rays of light, according to their vvave- length, aflect the several visual substances dif- ferently, provoking constructive or destructive changes in some, while others may be left in equilibrium, and producing a resulting colour- sensation expressive of the balance of effect on the whole. The accompanying diagram from Foster's Text-Book of Physiology (sixth edition, part iv. p. 95) serves to indicate the nature of Hering's assumption with regard to coloTir- perception. The vertical lines R, 0, Y, G, B, V indicate the position on the spectrum of the correspond- ing colour whose initials they bear. The curved line rg (enclosing a space shaded vertically) repi'esents the red-gi'cen substance, the effect of rays of different wave-length upon it being indicated by the height of the curves. The line yb (enclosing a space shaded horizontally) represents the yellow-blue substance, the effect of various rays upon it being indicated in the same manner. The horizontal line ah separates the katabolic, dissimilative, or destructive changes (represented above the line) from the anabolic, assimilative, or constructive changes (shown below it). In the red-green substance, as far as the line Y {i.e. for red, orange, yellow) the effect is katabolic, producing a red sensa- tion ; beyond this point {i.e. for green and blue) the effect is anabolic, producing a green sensa- tion. In the yellow-blue substance the effect is katabolic up to G {i.e. for orange, yellow, and green), producing the sensation of yellow ; but beyond this point {i.e. for blue and violet) it is anabolic, producing the sensation of blue. The thick line wh (enclosing an unshaded space) indicates the white-black substance which is only affected katabolically, though to a variable degree, by all the spectral colours, pi'oducing the sensation of white. Its anabolism produces the sensation of darkness. Red light (R) produces the sensation of red by inducing a katabolic change in the red-green substance. Orange induces katabolic changes in both the red-green and yellow-blue siibstances. Yellow produces katabolism of the yellow- blue substance, the red - green now being in equilibrium (its curve intersecting the line ah). Green induces anabolic changes in the red-green substance, the yellow-blue now being in equilibrium. Blue produces anabolic changes in the yellow-blue substance ; violet also does the same, but to a lesser degree. The simul- taneous effect of mixed lights is the sum-total of the eff'ect of their several component colours. Ebbinghaus has modified Hering's theory by admitting only katabolic changes in the three visual substances as the cause of colour-sensa- tion. He attributes colour properties to the visual purple, which latter he considers indenti- cal with the yellow-blue substance. He asserts that it exists in the cones as well as in the rods, and that its apparent absence in the former is due to its being colourless from admixture with