COLON, DISEASES OF 179 early, and also by the fact that under appro- priate treatment the case nsually yields. In England (imte dysentery is hardly likely to lead to a mistake, but the meat-washing character of the stools, the burning pain in the rectum, the intense tenesmus, and the constant desire to go to stool even when nothing is passed, should prevent mistake. It is, however, important to remember that in England we often see severe cases of colitis in persons who have had dysentery abroad, and under strict treatment these cases recover completely. Enterica, vialignant disease of tlie bowel, and arstnical poisoning may all give rise to errors of diagnosis. The prognosis is as a rule good, and acute cases are soon well, but in cases that have been allowed to become chronic—and often the disease has lasted many months before it is taken seriously in hand—the patients require rest in bed and milk diet for many weeks before re- covery is complete ; and it should be remem- bered that few patients are kept in bed too long, but that many are not kept in bed long enough. The more neurotic a patient is, the worse is the prognosis, and some neurotic women seem never to lose the disease in spite of the most careful treatment. That colitis which occurs either by extension from neighbouring parts or in association with some grave morbid condition need not detain us long, for it is generally marked by the diseases of which it forms a part. I have come across the following varieties :— I have seen the colon actually inflamed in a case in which there was acute gastritis due to the swelling of an acid. The stomach was in contact with the colon, and the colitis appeared to be due to direct extension of inflammation, for all coats were implicated. Sometimes direct irritation, such as enormous doses of purgatives, will cause colitis, and in some cases of arsenical or mercury poisoning colitis is found which is pi'obably due to excre- tion of the metal into the lai'ge intestine after it has been absorbed higher up in the alimentary canal. Acute colitis may be associated with septic or pyoemic ccmditions. As an instance I may men- tion the case of a woman who had pelvic abscesses and peritonitis following gonorrhoea. She died from exhaustion. In the caecum and for two feet beyond it the mucous membrane was sloughing, and from beyond this to the anus the colon was acutely inflamed, its walls were axlematous and thickened, its mucous surface was greyish yellow with patches of submucous luemorrhage ; the mucous membrane was separ- ating in shreds in many places. Acute colitis is a rare complication of Brighf's disease, and it may be that this form should be regarded as the eaidy stage of ulcerative colitis, which is a recognised complication of Bright's disease. This form of acute colitis is often over- looked because the diarrhoea due to it may be attributed to the purgatives so often given in Bright's disease, to uraemia, and very little stress can be laid upon blood in the motions, because patients with Bright's disease may bleed from their intestinal tract. Colitis may in very rare cases be associated with pneumonia, and occasionally a lardaceous colon becomes acutely inflamed. 2. Membranous Colitis.—Two distinct varie- ties exist, one which might be termed dyspeptic membranous colitis, and another which is always associated with some other grave condition, or is due to direct injury, and therefore might be called secondary membranous colitis. It is not usual to include under membranous colitis those cases of constipation in which, when the bowels are open, shreds of coherent mucus are passed with or without hard masses of fajcal matter ; such cases are common enough. Dyspeptic membranous colitis is so called because the sufferers from it complain much of dyspepsia and they pass membranes from the anus. The patients are usually over twenty years of age ; the disease is commoner in women than in men, and in private than in hospital practice. In children it is excessively rare, for Edwards found that out of 111 cases only 6 were under the age of ten. The distinguishing feature of it is that membranes, which the patient usually calls skins, are passed from the anus. They are usually white, but may be brown from faecal staining. In extreme cases the membrane forma a complete tubular cast of the intestine, usually varying from one to six inches long, but such tubes have been known to be much longer, and sufficiently thin and tenacious to permit of their being held up. The wall of the tube may be laminated, and fa)ces may be found between the laminaj, showing that they have been laid down at intervals. Faecal matter may also be found in the tubes, the diameter of which may be any- thing up to 1 i inch. The thickness of the wall may be anything up to a quarter of an inch. Either with or without the tubes, shreds of all shapes and sizes may be passed, but in essential characters they are the same as the tubes. Often several pieces of membrane are passed rolled up into a ball. Under the microscope the membranes are structureless and transparent; embedded in them may be seen minute fragments of food and fiieces, some cells, free nuclei, micro- organisms, phosphates, and cholesterin crystals. The cells are apparently the epithelial cells of the intestine that have undergone fatty de- generation. When the inner surface of the membrane is magnified it appears reticulate, and presents at regular intervals depressions or even pei'forations that clearly correspond to Lieber- kuhn's follicles, and sometimes it is evident that the cells lining the crypts have been cast oflP with them. Chemically the membrane consists