DRACUNCULUS 418 D rac U n C UIU S. *S'ee Filariasis {Filaria Aledinensix). Dra.g'On'S Blood.—resin (crimson in colour) found as an exudation from the fruit of the Rattan palm (Ca/arnus draco), containing dracoalban (CggH^gO^), and dracoremi (C2|-H^^02)- Dra.inag's.—The removal of superfluous water and of sewage from lands and dwellings (see Sewage and Drainage); surgical drainage is the removal (by means of tubes or counter- openings or posture) of fluids from wounds or cavities (natural or artificial) of the body (see Aseptic Treatment of Wounds, Drainage; Bladder, Injuries and Diseases, Cystitis, Treat- ment, Drainage; Bladder, Injuries and Dis- eases, Tumours, Drainage; Meningitis, Tuber- culous, Drainage of Lateral Ventricles). Drastics.—Medicines acting quickly and violently, especially purgatives (q-v.), such as croton oil, jalap, elaterium, scammony, podo- phyllum, etc. See Pharmacology. Draught. See Haustus ; Prescribing. Dreams. »S'ee Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Hypnagogic State, Dreams); Heart, Myo- cardium and Endocardium {Symptomatology, Cerebral Symptoms); Mind, Education of ; Morphinomania {Effects, Dreams). Dressings. See also Aseptic Treatment of Wounds ; Bandages ; First Aid. The question of the most suitable dressing for wounds sustained accidentally and intentionally inflicted received no final answer until a com- paratively few years ago, when the principles and details of aseptic surgery were definitely elabor- ated. Many factors conspired to achieve this result, such as the invention of the microscope, and the discovery of the germ theory, with its widely ramifying and important results; but of all of them, the work of Lord Lister is paramount. His conception, founded upon a true scientific basis, and expanded on practical lines, which resulted in the employment of antiseptics, has been the means of advancing the rational treat- ment of wounds to its present and apparently final position; and the aseptic treatment of wounds has followed so rapidly upon the anti- septic treatment of wounds that there are to be found surgeons who treat their wounds upon the older lines, and text-books written but a few years ago by representative surgeons enun- ciate doctrines which to-day appear to be heretical to the modern aseptic surgeon. In a practical work, a history of the endless variety of dressings which have been used from the earliest times is out of place, but those curious on this subject will find information in almost any surgical work published prior to the pre-Listerian era. Day by day the rivalry between different antiseptic dressings grows less keen as the real value of the aseptic dressing is appreciated. Accordingly, the subject of surgical dressings becomes restricted to an account of the methods of obtaining a sterilised dressing, and a description of those compara- tively few conditions in which an antiseptic dressing is more suitable. With regard to the dressing of wounds which are expected to run an aseptic course and to heal by first intention, there is still some differ- ence of opinion among surgeons. The difference lies in this, that one group of surgeons, feeling incredulous as to the possibility of having the skin aseptic in the neighbourhood of a wound, consider it necessary to apply to the wound an antiseptic dressing, one which, on account of its antiseptic properties, will prevent the develop- ment of pyogenic organisms in the vicinity of, or actually in the wound ; while the other group of surgeons, relying upon their attempts to render the vicinity of the wound and the wound itself aseptic, content themselves with employ- ing a dressing which has merely been sterilised. If this latter view is the correct one, then it of necessity follows that the subject of surgical dressings as applied to wounds believed to be aseptic and expected to heal by first intention becomes very much narrowed down. It there- fore matters very little what is the nature of the dressing, so long as its chief function is fulfilled, viz. that of shutting off the wound from the bacterial world until it is healed. As a matter of fact gauze is the material almost invariably selected, for, owing to its texture, it permits of easy sterilisation. It is comfortable, and readily absorbs any oozing from the wound, but any linen or cotton fabric is almost as suitaVjle. Those surgeons, i.e. the large majority of surgeons, who advocate a simple sterilised dressing for a wound do so for the following reasons:— 1. As both the wound and the dressing are aseptic, suppuration cannot occur in the wound unless pyogenic organisms are introduced from without, and a dressing of almost any material, if properly prepared and applied, will prevent this. 2. If pyogenic organisms have, during the operation, been introduced into the wound, an antiseptic dressing on the wound will have as little effect as an aseptic dressing in preventing their development. 3. The use of an antiseptic in the dressing is apt to be relied upon, and to diminish the strin- gency of the precautions which must be taken to secure true asepsis. 4. Its simplicity in preparation. The preparation of the gauze, or other material, can be efficiently and rapidly carried out in hospital practice, more especially if the operating room is provided with a steam steriliser; in private practice aseptic gauze has