SUPPURATION" AND SEQUEL/E EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC 507 be resorted to without delay. A disc of bone should be removed over the site of the abscess and free vent given to all pent-up pus. The abscess cavity may or may not bo washed out, according to circumstances, but in any case ample provision should be made for free di'ainage. Tufts of granulation tissue springing from the inHamed dura should be scraped away with a sharp spoon. In cases where an extra-dural abscess is sus- pected, but where its exact situation is a matter of conjecture, discs of bone should be removed over the most usual sites for its formation, viz. over the tegmcn tympani and over the groove for the sigmoid sinus. Pacliy- and Lepto-2J eihiiKj it I s.—Where a diffuse suppurative inflammation of the covering of the brain has taken place little or nothing is to be exjaected from treatment. Piu'gation, depletion by means of leeches, ice-bags to tlie head, and treatment of a supporting nature arc all indicated and should be tried. A bacteriological examination of the purulent contents of the middle ear should be made, and should the pi*edominant organism present be a streptococcus a fair inference is that the men- ingeal inflammation is of streptococcal origin. Under such circumstances subcutaneous injec- tions of anti-streptococcic serum may be tried. AVhcre meningitis is, however, local, early operative interference, e.f/. removing the bony framework around the infected area, cleansing the parts thoroughly with antiseptic lotions, and providing free drainage, may bring aboiit an arrest of the inflammatory process. Temporo-SjjJienoidal Abscess. — Should a dia- gnosis of temporo-sphenoidal abscess be made in any given case, removal of a disc of bono and exploration of the abscess cavity should be undertaken without delay. After reflection cf the soft parts (see vol. i. p. 520) the trephine pin should be made to enter the S(|uamous portion of the temporal bone 11 inch behind and above the centre of the external auditory meatus. Cotterill trephines h inch behind and 1 inch above the centre of the external auditory meatus. After removal of the disc of bone and incision of the dura (which, if an abscess be present, will bulge into the opening) a pus searcher (Horsley), the blade of a fine knife, or a grooved director should be thrust into the substance of the brain in various directions. If pus be present it will well up along the groove of the director. By means of a fine pair of sinus forceps introduced along the director and carefully opened so as to dilate the tract, the contents of the abscess ca\-ity may be evacuated. A drainage tube of rubber or decalcified chicken bone is now to be introduced and the abscess cavity carefully washed out with warm boracic or carbolic (1-40) lotion. The original skin flap is now to be brought down (an opening being made for the drainage tube) and the wound sewn up. The usual dressings are then to be applied. In certain cases a counter-opening through the tegmen antri or tegmen tympani is highly desirable, providing as it does more efficient drainage and a readier means of cleansing the abscess cavity. Cerebellar Abscess.—In operating for cerebellar abscess, after reflection of the soft parts {see vol. i. p. 520), the pin of the trephine should be introduced into the substance of the occipital bone 1-J- inch behind the centre of the external meatus (Reid's base line) and h inch below it. A disc of bone having been removed, the cerebellum should be explored, just as has been previously detailed in connection with temporo- sj^lienoidal abscesses, and the after-treatment conducted upon the same lines. Once the abscess cavity has been opened and drained, digital ex- ploration is of great value, as occasionally a secondary abscess in close proximity to the first may be pi'esent, and its existence is more readily made out by means of the finger than by any other method. The difficulties of accurately difl'erentiating between a temporo-sphenoidal and a cerebellar abscess are so great that Percy Dean has suggested a trephine opening which will exjDOse both the posterior part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the anterior part of the cerel)ellar lobe, whilst at the same time aftbrding ready access to the region of the sigmoid sinus. The pin of the trephine is introduced into the bone 1 inch behind and \ inch above the centre of the external meatus and a disc of bono removed. Special care must be taken to avoid womiding the lateral sinus, which lies immediately under the disc of bone which is being removed. Should an abscess cavity not be found in the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, it is easy to explore the anterior part of the cereliellum through the same trephine opening. Lateral Sinus Th)'ombo--<is.—After having opened up and cleansed the mastoid antrum and the adjacent mastoid cells the knee of the lateral sinus should be carefully exposed by removing the bone in its immediate neighbourhood, l^sually pus in greater or less quantity will be found surrounding the sinus. After cleansing the part a hypodermic needle should be thrust into the centre of the sinus. If no blood be drawn the presumption is that the sinus is thrombosed (the point of the needle will often be found to have a very fa^tid smell after such a puncture). Should the sinus be fomid thrombosed the internal jugular vein should be exposed in the neck by an incision along the anterior border of the stcrno-mastoid muscle, tied, and divided. The lateral sinus, after having been exposed for about an inch towards its occipital end, is now slit up and its thrombosed and pundent contents freely scraped away until free ha-morrhage takes place. It is then to be packed in the direction of the torcular