COSTER'S PASTE 244 Coster's Paste.—A paste containing 120 grains of iodine dissolved in one fluid ounce of light oil of wood tar; it is sometimes em- ployed as a parasiticide in cases of ringworm. Cost iven ess. — Constipation, or, more correctly, a less degree of intestinal inefficiency than is met with in constipation. See Con- stipation. Cotarnina. — An alkaloid, CjoHjsNOg, obtained from narcotina (C22H23NO7) by oxida- tion ; its hydrochloride is stypticin (q-v.). See Alkaloids ; Stypticin. CotO Cortex.—Goto bark is a non-official drug, used sometimes to check diarrhoea; there is a Tinctura Goto, of which the dose is 10 m. every two hours (with mucilage); the active principle is cotoin (CgaHjgOp,), a glucoside, and has been used for the same purpose. Cotterill's Operation. See Brain, Surgery OF ( Wagner's Oj^mitio^i, Modijicationof). Cotton Root Bark.—GossypU Radids Cortex or cotton root baric is got from the Go&sypium herbaceum, and is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharma- copoeia ; its preparations are the Decoctum GossypU Radicis Corticis (dose, | to 2 fl. oz.) and the Extractum GossypU Radicis Corticis Liquidum (dose, to 1 fl. dr.) ] it has the action and uses of ergot. Cotton - wool.—Cotton, Gossypium, or cotton-wool is the hair of the seeds of various species of Gossypium; if the oil have been re- moved it is known as " absorbent cotton-wool " ; if not, as " non - absorbent wool." See also CoLLODiuM ; Pyroxylinum ; Trades, Dangerous {Textile Trades, Cotton Workers). Cotton may be impregnated with various medicinal sub- stances (antiseptic, hsemostatic), and it is then known as iodoform cotton, salicylic cotton, iodised cotton, sublimated cotton, haemostatic cotton (containing ferric chloride and alum), and Nankeen cotton (containing picric acid). Cotugfno'S Disease. See Sciatica. Cotyledon. See Foetus and Ovum, De- velopment OF [Placenta at Term). Cotyloid. — Literally, cotyloid (from KOTvkr], a cup, and etSos, resemblance) means cup-like ; in anatomy it signifies relating to the acetabulum. See Hip-Joint, Diseases. Couch Grass. See Agropyrum. Couching'.—An operation employed in cases of cataract for breaking down the opaque crystalline lens {e.g. by means of a couching- needle) in order to produce reclination or absorption. See Cataract {Treatment, Opera- tive, Reclination). Cougfh. See Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Symptoms); Bronchi, Bronchial Glands {Pressitre Effects, Diagnosis); Bronchi, Bron- chitis {Symptoms); Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Symptoms); Children, Clinical Examination OF {Respiratory System, The Cough); Gout {Respiratory System); Hypnotism ; Hysteria {Disorders of Respiratory Organs, Cough); Larynx, Benign Growths of {Symptoms); Liver, Diseases of {Heijatoptosis, Symptoms); Liver, Perihepatitis {Signs and Symptoms); Liver, Congestion ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Lung Symptoms); Lungs, Emphysema of {Causes); Mediastinum {Chronic Mediastinitis, Symjytoms); Physiology, Respiration {Special Respiratory Movements); Spasm {Spasmodic Cough or Cynohex, Hehetis); Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases op {General Symptomatology); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Symp)toms, Respiratory System).—Cough is an important symptom in many diseases, and may constitute the chief complaint of the patient, while in other diseases the presence and char- acter of a cough hai'dly noticed by the patient may give important aid in diagnosis. The Act of Coughing.—Coughing is mainly an expiratory act in which air is expelled explosively through the mouth. Air is drawn into the chest and shut in by the closure of the glottis. The intrathoracic tension is increased. The gates of the larynx are then opened, and the imprisoned air escapes explosively. The gates of the larynx are the true and the false vocal cords. It is by the apposition of the false vocal cords that the intrathoracic tension can be increased to a sufficient degree to permit of an explosive cough. In animals, such as the sheep, in which the false cords and the ventricles of Morgagni are undeveloped, there is no proper explosion on coughing. Cough may be voluntary, but is usually re- flex. When the irritation is not too strong, the impulse to cough can be voluntarily restrained. The impulse to cough commonly results from irritation of some of the branches of the vagus, and may proceed from— 1. The respiratory mucous membrane (naso- pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi). 2. Aural irritation, as from foreign bodies in the external meatus, or rarely from chronic otitis. 3. The back of the tongue, through the lingual branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. 4. Gastric irritation—the " stomach cough " which occurs in association with chronic dyspepsia both in children and adults. 5. Irritation of branches of the vagus by enlarged bronchial glands, or by enlarged glands, tumours, or abscesses in the mediastinum. 6. The skin, especially of the throat and chest. Apart from local irritation, cough may be purely "nervous." The Clinical Varieties of Cough.—Diseases