167 CLIMATE AND ACCLIMATISATION If we desire an example of a race thriving in extreme vicissitudes of climate, it is to be found in the Indians, who, coming from a temperate region in North America, have become ac- climatised in the hot dry coasts of Peru, and also in the extremely cold regions of the Andes at an altitude of 4000 to 6000 feet. Now, not- withstanding that the inhabitants of these two regions will not thrive if they arc removed from one to tlie other, they have nevertheless proved the possibility of an original race becoming gradually acclimatised in areas which are totally different from a climatological point of view. Bertillon well simimed up the circumstances which go far to prevent sudden acclimatisation in new isothermal regions :— 1. Acute diseases, many of them endemic. 2. Chronic consecutive antemias, which place the individual in an inifavourable position to resist accidental disease. 3. Diseases in early infancy in oflspring in the new home. 4. Physical and intellectual degeneration and the infertility of the second and third generations. That climate markedly afifects the progeny of emigrants is certain; for instance, when Europeans proceed to countries where they can colonise, which possess a very dift'erent climate from their own, their children in a generation or two re- ceive an indubitable impress from the climato- logical factors around them. The children of Europeans who go to North America tend to approach in type to the original inhabitants of the soil; they outwardly resemble the north- west American Indians; the hair becomes straighter, coarser, darker, the cheek bones more prominent, and the rounded form of the face changes into the gaunt-lined face typical of the inhabitants of the United States; the skin l)ecomes somewhat sallow, and even the voice changes. Again, supposing a woman proceeds to Australia, having given birth to three or four children ; the children she subsequently bears in i the new climate will not resemble her previous progeny so much as they do the Australian type. In tropical countries we find that the children of northern European families do not thrive, and the race dies out, not so much because of the infertility of the women, but because of their inability to bear children capable of thriv- ing. In those cases where the women are sterile it is due to the action of the climate upon them as Europeans, and not to any specific action on the sex. Clima.tolOg^y.—The study of climates and of the etlcct they produce on the health of tlie indixidual or of communities. See Climate. Clinia.tria..—Clinical medicine ; is derived from k\Ivi], a bed, and larpeta, treatment. Clinic or Ciinique. — A gathering of medical students or post-graduates in a hospital for the purpose of acquiring a know- ledge of clinical (or bedside) medicine or surgery ; sometimes the name is given to the patients (clinical material) gathered together for teach- ing purposes, or even to the building in which the instruction is given. Clinica.1.—Relating to practical or bedside treatment or instruction in medicine or surgery, as opposed to theoretical lectures and demonstra- tions, e.g. Clinical Medicine, Clinical Surgery, Clinical Gyniecology, etc. See Abdomen, Clinical Investigation ; Children, Clinical Examina- tion OF; Gynaecology, Diagnosis in ; etc. CiinOCepha.ly.—A malformation of the head in which it is flattened on the top, saddle- shaped ; it is due to synostosis of the parietals with the sphenoidal great wings or with the squamous temporals. Clinodactyiism. — The malformation of the foot or hand in wliich one digit overrides another. CiinOSCOpe.—An instrument for detect- ing and measuring deviation or declination in ophthalmology. Clitoris.—The erectile organ situated at the apex of the vestibule in the anterior region of the vulva. See Generation, Female Organs op {Exteriud). It has been removed {clitori- dectomy), but with very doubtful benefit, in cases of nymphomania. See also Labour, Post- partum HjiMORrhage {Primary, Traumatic); Syphilis {Primary); Tabes Dorsalis {Symjito- matology, Genital Organs); Uterus, Malforma- tions OF {Hyixrtrophy of Clitoris); Vulva, Diseases of the {Tumours, Morbid Conditions of Clitoris). Cloaca..—The space or opening into which the intestinal and urino-genital canals discharge ; a cloaca exists normally during embryonic life in the human subject, and it may remain per- manently as a malformation {see Generation, Female Organs of, Malformations), or be pro- duced traumatically during a prolonged or instrumental labour (Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor, Lesions); the name cloaca is also given (in surgery) to cavities containing pus, or to holes in the involucrum of new bone in diseases of bones, e.g. in acute osteomyelitis and periostitis {see Bone, Diseases of). Clonic.—Clonic (from Gr. kAoi'os, irregular motion), as applied to movements, signifies irregularly occurring contractions alternating with relaxations, e.g. in epilepsy, eclampsia, and hj'steria ; it is opposed in meaning to tonic. Clonus.—A series of contractions of the muscles of a limb or part of the body, causing rhythmical jerks or movements, e.g. ankle clonus,