CART Knee-Joint, Injuries {Dislocation of Semilunar Cartilages); etc.—There are many cartilages bearing special names, e.g. Meckel's cartilage, ensiform cartilage, tSantorini's cartilage, etc. Carui FructUS. See Pharmacology; PBESCiiiBiNii. — Caraway fruit, the aromatic carpels of an umbelliferous plant (Carum carui). There is an Aqua Carui, given in doses of 1 to 2 fl. oz. Tiie volatile oil. Oleum Carui, is the chief constituent, and it contains carvone (CjjH.,^), cymene, carvol, and limonone; it is given in doses of ^ to 3 m. On account of their pleasant, spicy taste and aromatic odour, caraway carpels are used in making of powders, tinctures, etc. The oil is a carminative. Caruncle.—A small fleshy outgrowth, existing normally in the bod}^ {e.g. the uvula, the jjrostatic lobe, and tlie laciymal caruncle at the inner canthus), or developed as a patho- logical production {e.g. the urethral caruncle, neuroma, or vascular tumour growing near the meatus urinarius in the female). Carunculse Myrtiformes. — The fleshy bodies wliieh represent the hymen after that membrane has been torn in coitus and compressed during labour. See Vulva, Diseases OF {Morbid Conditions of the Uijmen). Cams.—Deep sleep, or, according to some, coma or sopor; earns catalepsia is simply catalepsy, cams letliargus is prolonged semi- unconsciousness or trance, and carus ecstasis is ecstasy. <S'ee Catalepsy; Ecstasy; Insanity. Carvol or Carvone.—A constituent (Cjf|Hj^O) of oil of caraway and oil of spearmint; carvacrol is an isomeric form of it; and carvene (CjgH^y) is a terpene or limonene. See Carui Fructus. CaryOCinesiS.—The changes in the nucleus occurring during mitosis or indirect cellular division. See Physiology, The Cell. Caryophyllum.—The dried flower-buds of Ewjinia ciirijojiligUata, or cloves, having a pungent and aromatic taste and a spicy odour ; they contain caryophyllin, eugenin, and an oil {Oleum Caryopliylli, or oil of cloves) which is official (dose, ^ to 3 m.); of cloves itself there is an official preparation, the infusion {Infusum Caj-i/ojihi/lli), given in doses of h to 1 fl. oz. Applied externally, oil of cloves acts as an irritant, and later as a local anaesthetic; internally, it is a stomachic and carminative, and by its action on the stomach it reflexly stimulates the heart and circulation; it is also used in toothache from decayed teeth, as a topical application. To prevent griping, oil of cloves is used in compounding the Pilula Coloci/nthidis Composita and the Pilula Colo- cynthidis et Hyoscyami. See Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; and Volatile Oils. 57 Caryoplasm.—The substance of the nucleus as distinguished from that of the cell (or cytoplasm); the endoplasm; tlie term has been somewhat indefinitely used for either the chromatin or the achromatin of the nucleus. Casamicciola. See Balneology {Italy, Ischia). Cascara Sag^rada. See Pharma- cology; Prescrihing ; PuiUiAxiVES.—The bark of the Californian buckthorn {Rhamnus 2^ur- shiauus), having a markedly bitter taste, and containing cascarin, purshianin, a volatile oil, resins, etc. There are three official preparations : the Extractmn Cascaroe Sagradce^ (dose, 2 to 8 grs.), the Extractum Cascarce Sagradce Liquidum (dose, i to 1 fl. dr.), and the Syrupus Cascaroe Aromaticus (dose, ^ to 2 fl. dr.). The Hqxdd extract may be usefully combined with Spiritus Ammonia) Aromaticus, Spiritus Chloroformi, Tiiictura Belladonna), and Tinctura Nucis Vomic£e (equal parts of each), to form the Tinctura Laxativa (dose, 20 to 60 m.). As an aperient, cascara finds its great sphere of useful- ness in the treatment of chronic constij^ation; it does not gripe much, it can be used daily without increasing the dose, and after the constipation has been relieved the drug can be gradually discontinued. It may be given in association with euonymin and iridin, with nux vomica and belladonna, and with iron. Cascarillae Cortex.—The bark of Croton Eluteria, containing the bitter substance cascarillin, volatile oils, resins, etc. It has two official preparations, the Infusum Cascarillce (dose, I to 1 fl. oz.) and Tinctura Cascarilla^ (dose, i to 1 fl. dr.); and it acts as a bitter and stomachic medicine. There is an incompatibility between the tincture and mineral acids. Caseation. See Bronchi, Bronchial Glands {Morbid Anatomy); Tuberculosis.—A form of necrosis of the tissues in which they become converted into a cheese-like substance ; it is seen typically in tuberculosis; and it may follow either coagulation-necrosis or a granular disintegration of the tissues. It is more correct to term caseation a post-necrotic state than a form of necrosis {Greenfield and Lyon). Casein.—A proteid substance occurring in milk (in the form of caseinogen, a luicleo- proteid), and forming a great part of cheese. See Physiology, Food and Digestion ; Milk {Physiological); Invalid Feeding ; etc. Casein biscuits are used in diabetes mellitus. CaSSise PUI pa.—The pulp from the pods of tlie purging cassia {Cassia fist ula), con- taining a purgative principle (cassin). It is contained in the official Confectio Senna', and is not given in any other way. See Pharmacology; Prescribing ; Purgatives.