DISEASES OF 215 CONJUNCTIVA, caused by quicklime, which has a double action, namely, that of heat evolved by contact M'ith the tears and that of cliemical irritation. When due to slaked lime, which is more commonly the case, they are less disastrous. Treatment.—In severe cases it is necessary to place the patient under the influence of an anaesthetic, and, after removing every particle of foreign matter, to apply castor oil to the injured mucous mem- brane. Prognosis will always be grave, owing to such secondary results as implication of the cornea, hypopyon, entropion, and symblepharon. Uncomplicated wounds of the conjunctiva heal kindly enough if first made aseptic, and then drawn together by fine silk sutures. It is said that the staining left by grains of gunpowder may be got rid of by electrolysis. Conjunctivitis.—Inflammation of the conjunctival muctius membrane, blennorrhagic, gonorriieal, croupous, diphtheritic, eczematoTis, follicular, granular, purulent, membranous, etc. See Adrenal Glands {Adrenalin, Hay Fever); Conjunctiva, Diseases of ; Cornea {Phlyctenu- lar Ulcer or Edematous Conjunctivitis); Gout {Eye); Measles {Complications, Conjunctivitis) \ Meningitis, Epidemic Cereuro-Spinal {Symp- toms, Special Senses, Eyes); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Arsenical Neuritis, Symp- toms) ; Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms and Course, Conjunctivitis); Sclerotic, Diseases of {Subconjunctivitis or Episcleritis); Smallpox {Symptoms, Eruptive Stage); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmos, Conjunctivitis); Typh- oid Fever {Ocular Complications); Urethra, Diseases {Gonorrhoea, Complications). Connective Tissues. See Physio LOGY, Tissues {Connective, Mucoid, Filn'ous, Cartilage, and Bone). Consang^uinity. — Blood - relationship as opposed to marriage-relationship {affinity); of the same blood. There is a widespread belief that marriages of consanguinity predispose to various diseases (albinism, chorea, deaf-mutism, epilepsy, goitre, idiocy, haimophilia, retinitis pigmentosa, rickets, and malformations) in the oft'spring; this belief finds expression in the proverb, " Heirathen in's Blut thut selten gut: sterben, verderben, oder keine Erben"; but there seems to be some doubt whether con- sanguinity per se produces evil effects, whether indeed it is not a bad family history intensified by intermarriage that is to blame. Consciousness. See Brain, Affec- tions OF Blood - Vessels {Anaemia, Ilcemor- rhage, Emholism); Hysteria {Epileptic Period); Insanity, Its Nature and Symptoms {Relation of Mind and Brain, Biology o f Consciousness); Insanity, Nature {Delusional, Alternate Per- sonality or Double Consciousness); Memory in Health and Disease {Physical Basis of Memory); Unconsciousness. Consensual.—Reflex actions brought about by sensory impressions without the in- tervention of the cerebrum itself and its dis- criminating will. Consent. See Medicine, Forensic {Rcqje). Conservancy System.—A system of sewage, now generally condemned, by which slop water was got rid of by the drains, while solid excrement was disposed of by means of privies or earth closets. See Sewage and Drainage {Systems). Conserves. See Confections ; Pre- SCIUBING. Consomme.—A strong broth or soup, for the making of which meat, vegetables, bone, and connective tissue are needed ; it forms a jelly when cold. See Invalid Feeding {General Preparation of Mea ts, Soiqi-Making). Consonants. See Nose, Examination of {Character of the Voice); Physiology, Re- spiration (Voice, Consonant Sounds); Stammer- ing. Co n Ste rn at i O.—Pavor nocturnus (night terror) in children ; or (in other cases) stupor. Constipation. Physiological Considerations . . 215 Causes 216 Symptoms . . . . . .217 Treatment . . . . . .217 See also Abdominal Aneurysm {Symptoms, Pressure); Brain, Affections op Blood-Vessbls {Paralysis fi-om Vascular Lesions); Bronchitis, Acute {Etiology, Predispjosing Causes); Climac- teric Insanity {Treatment of Constipation in); Colon, Diseases of {Malignant); Gastro-Intes- TiNAL Disorders of Infancy {Constipation); Gout {Alimentary System); Hydropathy {Con- stipation); Insanity, Etiology of {Direct Causes, Sympathetic Insanity); Lungs, Emphysema {Causes); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Sympto^tis); Myiasis {Intestinal); Palpitation ; Pharma- cology ; Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes); Pregnancy, Affections and Com- plications {Digestive System); Purgatives ; Rectum, Diseases {Persistent Constipation) ; Tetany {Causation); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Seaside Constipation); Toxicology {Lead); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning) ; Vice {Alimentary System). Physiological Considerations. — While the frequency with which the excreta of the bowels are expelled varies at difterent ages, it may be accepted as practically normal that from later childhood onwards an evacuation at least once