94 CHEST, INJURIES OF especially the left; the soft parts are reflected in the form of a flap having its base at the right border of the sternum; the cartilages of the third, fourth, and fifth left ribs are removed with or without a portion of the sternum. The pericardium is then exposed, and may be opened and evacuated ; any bleeding-point is seized and ligatured ; a wound in the heart-wall may be closed with interrupted sutures ; silk is usually preferred because it is more durable than catgut; the sutures should not include the endocardium. Having arrested the hsemorrhage, the wound in the pericardium is sutured, leaving a small opening for drainage, occupied by a strand of gauze. Any pleural complication is thus dealt with before closing the external wound. Should the patient recover, he should be prohibited from attempting any exertion for several months, for fear of the scar yielding and causing aneurysm or rupture of the heart- wall. Needles have been found in the heart after death, having given rise practically to no symp- toms ; on other occasioiis alarming symptoms have arisen from the passage of a needle through the heart. In one case in which a needle was removed a distinct bruit was audible previous to the operation, and disappeared immediately after. Chest-Wall, Affections of. Surgical Acute Abscess and Cellulitis . . 94 Cold Abscess—Tuberculous Disease of Sternum, Ribs, and Costal Carti- lages ...... 94 Syphilitic Disease of the Sternum . 94 Tumours ...... 94 Medical Cutaneous Disorders .... 95 Pain 95 Disorders of CircuIjATion ... 96 Emphysema . . . . . . 96 Tumours ...... 97 Affections of the Muscles ... 97 1. Acute Cellulitis and Abscess of the Chest- Wall.—This may involve the subcutaneous cellular tissue alone, or the deeper layers of tissue beneath the muscles and aponeuroses. The source of infection is not always apparent; the axilla and the upper extremity are regarded as the more common sites of the original in- fection. The cellulitis may spread over the greater part of one side of the chest, may spread downwards into the abdominal wall or upwards to the shoulder and neck. The pleura and lung may become involved in the infective process. The disease is to be treated on the same lines as acute cellulitis in other regions, e.g. the neck, limbs, pelvis. Circumscribal acute abscess of the chest-wall is met with in relation to acute osteomyelitis of the ribs, especially that form which follows upon typhoid fever. 2. Cold Abscess of the Chest-Wall.—The common cold abscess of the chest-wall originates in tuberculous disease of a rib or costal cartilage or of the pleura. Less frequently they result from tuberculous disease of the sternum or from the extension of a spinal abscess along an inter- costal space. In relation to the ribs and costal cartilages, the abscess may develop on their external surface or on their pleural aspect, or there may be an accumulation of pus on both aspects, communicating with each other across the intercostal space. The channel of com- munication is often very narrow, and may easily escape detection. While commonly met with in childhood and youth, they may, like tuberculous abscesses elsewhere, be met with at any period of life. They are usually situated on the lateral or antero-lateral aspects of the chest-wall. The clinical features are the same as those of tuberculous abscess in other situations. They have been known to ex- hibit pulsations transmitted from the heart. When left to themselves they usually make their way to the skin surface, and sooner or later rupture and give rise to a discharging sinus or sinuses. The most satisfactory treat- ment is to lay the abscess cavity freely open; its walls are then dealt with on general prin- ciples ; any recess or channel comnmnicating with the cavity must be explored; careful search is necessary to discover the existence of an abscess cavity on the pleural aspect of the ribs or costal cartilages; portions of the latter may require to be removed in order to deal with such a cavity when it is discovered; all diseased bone or cartilage is to be removed. The wound is then closed with sutures, or stuffed with gauze. 3. Tertiary Syphilis is met with in the sternum in the form of gumma or cold abscess, or of a sinus leading down to carious bone. Its clinical features and treatment are the same as in syphilitic disease of other bones. 4. Tumours of theChest-Wall maybedivided into those of the soft parts and those growing from the bones. Tumours of the soft parts include sebaceous cysts, angiomata, lipomata, molluscum fibrosum, sarcoma, etc. Tumours originating in the bones include cliondromata, osteomata, and various forms of sarcomata. The latter may originate in con- nection with the sternum or with the ribs; they may give rise to tumours of enormous size; they may project upon the pleural aspect and press upon the lung; the parietal pleura is often involved in the new growth. The removal of a malignant tumour of the chest-wall is always a formidable operation, as it usually