482 EAR: AFFECTIONS OF TYMPANIC MEMBRANE absence of a perforation, not to allow diagnostic zeal free play. Obviously an invisible orifice may be rendered visible by removing blood which covers it, but in doing so the surgeon may infect the middle ear, and produce acute inflammation of the tympanum. Again, by Val- salva's method, or by employing the Eustachian catheter, the presence of a perforation can be detected, but under most circumstances it is safer in these cases to trust to sight. The most common forms of perforation, such as are produced by blows, loud sounds, explosions, etc., are usually seen as somewhat lozenge- shaped openings. This conformation is pro- duced by the fact that the breach is visually in the circular iibres of the membrane and parallel to the radiating fibres. Sometimes instead of being elongated the opening becomes circular. In either case the pale yellow mucosa of the tympanum may be seen through the perforation. As a result of severe explosions very extensive injuries are sometimes seen. Thus I can recall an instance in which both membranes presented irregular rents, so that actual flaps were turned or folded over. The prognosis depends mainly upon two questions, viz. (1) whether secondary infection of the tympanum has been avoided ; (2) the amount of deafness which exists. If, unfortunately, an acute middle ear inflam- mation has resulted, the prospects of the patient must be judged by the rules applicable to this disease. If the hearing power be only slightly impaired, we may feel fairly confident that it will soon become completely restored. On the other hand, should marked deafness be present, and more particularly if bone conduction be impaired, the prognosis should be guarded, at least until obvious improvement has begun to manifest itself. In uncomplicated cases the perforation gradually heals, the time occupied varying according to size and shape. Where perforation of the membrane is associated with fracture of the base, the importance of the latter, of course, completely overshadows the ear lesion. Treatment in traumatic perforation of the membrane is chiefly negative. It is of the utmost importance after the injury to avoid syringing, instillations, and the like. The ear should as soon as possible be plugged with sterilised wool or gauze. The patient must keep quiet for a day or two, and avoid alcohol and tobacco. Should pain occur a cold compress may be applied over the ear. Should inflamma- tion of the middle ear set in, the treatment recom- mended in another section must be carried out. Medico-Legal Aspects.—In examining a case of traumatic perforation from a medico-legal point of view, several points have to be con- sidered. Thus, if the injured membrane be cicatrised, and more particularly if there be calcareous deposits, it may safely be assumed that a relatively small amount of violence may have sufficed to cause a rupture. Again, if an injury has been followed by middle ear suppura- tion, the surgeon will no longer be able to difterentiate this from a case due to other causes. The history, when accurately obtainable, will be of assistance, but it is well also to examine the uninjured ear. If there be evidence of past or present suppuration, this will weigh in favour of the aftection on the other side not being traumatic. Another important feature is the amount of deafness and the presence or absence of bone-conduction. If the hearing be much impaired, and if bone-conduction be lost, the injury must be considered as serious. It is then, of course, incumbent upon the medical man to exclude maliiagering, which may be prompted by a desire for heavy damages. It is also well always to make a careful objective and sub- jective examination. Ear : Acute Inflammation of the Middle Ear Definition ...... 482 Introductory ..... 482 Classification ..... 483 Causes 483 Pathology ...... 485 Symptoms ...... 485 Results 486 Diagnosis ...... 486 Prognosis ...... 487 Treatment ...... 487 Definition.—Acute inflammation of the middle ear (otitis media acuta) is a more or less severe inflammatory process affecting the whole or some portion of the mucous membrane lining the middle ear, tending either to resolution or to the formation of pus, and sometimes resulting in serious complications and the extension of the inflammation to important neighbouring parts. Introductory.—Without entering fully into the anatomy of this region it will be advisable to define very briefly what is meant by the " middle ear," and to draw attention to one or two anatomical points which have an important bearing upon some of the complications which may result from a middle ear attack. The term "middle ear" comprises not only the tympanic cavity, but also the mastoid antrum, the mastoid cells, and the Eustachian canal. These parts are in communication with one another, and with the naso-pharynx, by means of the Eustachian tube, and are separated from the external auditory meatus by the tympanic membrane. The tympanum, or "drum of the ear," is a narrow, irregular space in the substance of the temporal bone, and is placed between the external meatus and the labyrinth. Extending across it is a bridge of small bones, articulated together, which serve to bring the membrane, the outer boundary of the cavity, into communication with the sound- perceiving apparatus. These bones are known