212 CONJUNCTIVA, DISEASES OF tender. In another form the disease appears under the guise of a pedunculated tumour, attached by its pedicle to some portion of the palpebral conjunctiva. It resembles a papilloma more than anything else. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis turns upon the discovery of the tubercle bacillus in the dis- charge or pieces of the diseased conjunctiva. In obscure cases inoculation experiments or the tuberculin test prove useful. Treatment.—An attempt must be made to extirpate the whole of the granulations, as by excision, scraping, or the use of the galvano- cautery ; after the operation, iodoform should be applied locally. Recurrences should be watched for, and when found, promptly attacked. Internally, creasote and cod - liver oil, separately or combined, appear to be of service. Careful attention must always be paid to the sanitary environment of the patient. Syphilis The initial lesion, or chancre, is now and again observed upon some part of the con- junctiva, especially in children. It forms a round or oval ulcer, the edges of which are usually raised; induration may or may not be present. The corresponding preauricular and angular glands speedily become involved. Treatment-—^The affected mucous membrane should be washed, night and morning, with Lot. hydr. nigra (B.P.), and after that the sore dusted with powdered iodoform. As soon as the diagnosis is made, general treatment by small doses of mercury should be begun. Several instances have lately been reported of a curious infiltration of the ocular conjunctiva coming on during the secondary stage of syphilis, rendering the conjunctiva swollen and semi - translucent. Treatment. — Mercury internally and black wash locally. Mucous patcJies have been observed by several writers. Gummata are occasionally found in the ocular conjunctiva, and ulcers may be produced by their disintegration. Ophthalmia Nodosa.—This rare affection is due to the penetration into the eye of the hairs of certain kinds of caterpillars {Bomhyx pini and ruhi). It is characterised by many small, hard, greyish growths not only in the lower part of the conjunctiva and sclera, but also in the iris and other parts of the eye. Inflamma- tory symptoms may attain a high grade. A history may be got of a caterpillar having been thrown against the eye ; or the patient, by the nature of his occupation, may have been liable to an injury of that kind. Diagnosis will be rendered certain by excising a nodule for microscopic examination, when it will be found to consist of round and of giant cells, together with a hair. Treatment.—The nodules should be removed, and inflammatory symptoms com- bated by sedative and antiseptic lotions. Degenerations Xerosis Conjunctives.—Xerosis occurs under two forms—the epithelial and the parenchy- matous. Epithelial xerosis is a superficial change of the ocular conjunctiva, limited parts of which become dry and lustreless, and are covered with a foam-like, whitish substance, containing the xerosis baciUus in large numbers. The changes are specially prone to affect the temporal side of the ocular conjunctiva, and often take a triangular or oval form. The spots appear slightly raised, and (when magni- fied) give one the impression of being made up of so many minute globules of mercury. They may be readily wiped away, as with wool, but are reproduced within 24 or 36 hours. The neighbouring conjunctiva may be permeated with dilated vessels, and be thrown into small folds concentric with the edge of the] cornea when the eye is moved. This form of xerosis affects mainly thin, poorly-nourished children, who not infrequently suffer from otorrhcea. It makes its appearance in spring or summer, and may recur year after year at that period with- out entailing any serious mischief. It may or may not be associated with definite night-blind- ness. It has been shown by the writer to coexist with several other conditions : (1) a deficiency in heemoglobin ; (2) alterations in the visual fields for green and red; and (3) an ex- aggeration of the fundus reflexes visible with the ophthalmoscope in most young eyes. We assume that epithelial xerosis is the outcome, remotely of lowered nutrition, and immediately of dazzling by bright light. Treatment.—The most important remedy is iron, best given in the well-known form of Blaud's pill. Parenchymatous Xerosis. — This much more serious malady commonly forms part of some general ailment, the exact nature of which is not well understood. In this country it is found only in young children, who show, be- sides frothy conjunctival patches, night-blind- ness and cloudy cornese. The corneal changes usually go on to perforation, and the patients nearly always die. This malady is generally bilateral, and the usual signs of irritation, such as redness of the eye and photophobia, are often conspicuous by their absence; indeed, the lacrymal secretion may be wholly suppressed. As causes, hereditary syphilis, insufficient or badly-selected food, and prolonged diarrhoea or vomiting, have been mentioned. Among natives in India Herbert found mucous mem- branes other than the conjunctiva involved— for example, those of the mouth, nose, larynx, bronchi, intestine, and bladder. Treatment.— The eyes should be cleansed with sublimate (1 : 5000) and covered with pads steeped in the same solution. Physostigmine sulphate, gr. 1 ; cocaine hydrochloride, gr. 4; distilled water, 1 ounce, may be dropped into the eyes two or