133 CHOREA it may almost 1)0 considered as part of the disease. Choreic endocarditis chiefly affects the mitral orifice and is usually of the simple type. The heart frequently recovers completely and its bruits entirely disappear. Sometimes, however, the valves may remain permanently damaged. Ulcerative endocarditis with em holism is rare. Acute articular rheumatism may precede, accompany, or follow an attack of chorea. When occurring simultaneously with chorea, it is usually mild in type, evidenced chiefly by joint pains and moderate pyrexia, with little or no joint swelling to be made out on objective examination. Some choreic children have characteristic "subcutaneous rheumatic nodules," varying from the size of a pea downwards to that of a sago-grain. They are distributed most commonly along the subcutaneous l^orders of the ulna and tibia, also around the elbow, knee, and ankle joints, and along various tendons around the wrists and ankles. Sometimes these nodules are only discoverable during the attack of chorea. Erythema nodosum is sometimes present. A painful contracture of the palmar fascia may also occur during chorea, clearing up under anti-rheumatic treatment. Cases of chorea with intense mental symptoms have already been referred to. Such maniacal cases occur chiefly in adults, and especially in the pregnant state. Epilepsy as a complication is very rare. Hysteria may complicate chorea, and hysterical movements may sometimes simulate chorea; but the practised observer has usually little difiiculty in recognising the existence of a hysterical element when present. Hysterical movements are usually somewhat different in type from those of true chorea; they are often sudden and shock - like, and tend to be more rhythmical than in true chorea. Duration.—The duration of an attack of chorea is very variable. The more severe the attack, the longer will be its probable duration. The average duration is from two to three months, but an attack may clear up in two or three weeks, or it may last six months or longer. Only in exceptional cases does chorea j^ersist continuously for a year or more. As a rule, the older the patient is when first affected hj chorea, the longer is the dui-ation of the attack likely to be. Chorea is a disease which is very prone to recur. One or two relapses are common, and as many as nine relapses have been recorded. The intervals between two successive attacks vary from a few weeks to several years; the average interval is about one year. In some cases the patient has an attack of chorea regularly at a certain season of the year for several successive years; but as a rule the attacks recur at ipiite irregular intervals. Relapses are often slighter in severity than the primary attack, but the reverse is sometimes the case. Prognosis.—In most cases recovery is com- plete, the inco-ordination gradually ceases and at last the involuntary movements fade away. Serious cases are those in which the movements are of extreme violence, and in which insomnia, delirium, and rapid emaciation supervene. Those may end fatally from exhaustion. Sometimes death results from rheumatic fever with hyper- pyrexia, or from cardiac failure secondary to valvular disease. Injuries to the skin produced by the violence of the choreic movements may result in intractable sores, and the patient may die from jiyjemic infection. In the common chorea of childhood the danger to life is but slight, the average mor- tality being less than three per cent. Most of the fatal cases are first attacks; death from a recurrence is rare. Choi'ea occurring for the first time at or after puberty is much more dangerous, since severe heart-lesions are more frequent than in the chorea of childhood. Chorea in pregnancy is still more serious, nearly twenty-five per cent of cases proving fatal. In such cases the choreic movements are usually very violent, mental complications are common, and severe endocarditis is relatively frequent. Many cases abort, and in the patient's cachectic state abortion or even normal labour is dangerous. In extremely i-are cases juvenile chorea may persist as a permanent chronic disease, with or without slight remissions, in spite of all treat- ment. This form of chorea is commoner in males than in females, and seems to be less definitely associated with rheumatism and endo- carditis than ordinary chorea is (vide infra, " Chronic Progressive Chorea "). Chorea developing after middle life is much more likely to be a permanent disease than the juvenile form. Pathology. — Chorea has a clinical rather than a pathological existence, and the disease is at present classed amongst " functional" disorders. Practically nothing is known of its essential pathology. It is only in severe and complicated cases that the disease is fatal, and at post-mortem examinations very varied and inconstant appearances have been found, amongst which may be mentioned general hypertemia of the brain, embolism or thrombosis of cerebral vessels, and minute perivascular hemorrhages in the brain and spinal cord. Sometimes fine changes in the nerve-cells of the central ganglia have also been described. But an insurmount- able objection to the acceptance of any one of the above as the essential lesion of the disease lies in the fact that any or all of these changes may be absent and the results of examination may be negative, the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerves appearing absolutely normal