50 CANCELLOUS Cancellous.—Tissues {e.g. bone) having a spongy or lattice-like structure are called cancellous. See Physiology, Tissues {Bone). Cancer. See Tumours {Epithelial Grou2y). See also Adrenalin ; Appendix Vermiformis {Cancerous Disease); Appetite {Loss of); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Tumours); Bone, Diseases of {Tumours); Brain, Tumours OP {Carcinoynata) ; Cachexia {Cancerous); Colon, Diseases of {Secondary Membranous Colitis); Gall-Bladdbr {Tumours of)'; Gall- Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of {Tumours of the Bile Ducts); Heredity ; Hip - Joint, Diseases of {Tumours in Region of Hip); In- testines, Diseases of {Malignant Disease) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Tumours) ; Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Fa%dts in the Soft Passages, Cancer of the Cervix); Liver {Perihepatitis, Secondary); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Carcinomata) ; Mediastinum {Mediastinal and other Intra-Thoracic Growths); Micro-Organisms {Cancer Bodies); (Esophagus {Growths, Malignant); Orbit, Diseases of the ; Pancreas, Diseases of {Malignant Diseases); Peritoneum, Tumours of {Malignant); Preg- nancy, Affections of Generative Organs {Cancer of Uterus); Radium ; Rectum, Diseases op the {Cancer); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op (Cancer); Tumours {Chloroma); Tumours {Carcinoma); Uterus, Malignant Tumours of ; Vagina, Disorders of {Car- cinoma) ; X-Rays {Cancer and Sarcoma). Ca.nChasm US.—Immoderate laughter, usually hysterical in nature. See Hysteria. Cancroin.—A toxine found in carcino- matous growths, and used subcutaneously for the treatment of cancer {Adamkiexvicz). Cancrum Oris. .See Stomatitis (G^aw- grenous). See also Gangrene {Infective) ; Measles {Complications, Noma) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications). Candela.—A bougie, wax or medicated. Candles.—Feeble illuminating agents, made of tallow, stearin, paraffin, wax, sper- maceti, and compositions; they have practically no bad effect on health ; " one candle power" is the light given by a sperm candle burning at the rate of 120 grs. per hour. *S'ee Ventilation AND Warming. Cane Sugrar. .S'ee Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Carbohydrates). Canities. — Greyness, premature or senile. *S'ee Nails, Affections of {Canities); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Pigmentary Anomalies of Hair). Cannabis indica. «S'eeBR0MisM(7Vea^ ment); Drug Eruptions {Cannabis Indica); Phar- macology ; Prescribing ; Toxicology {Indian Hemp).—Cannabis Indica is derived from the dried flowering or fruiting tops of Indian hemp —Cannabis sativa. It contains an active prin- ciple, Cannabinon, two alkaloids, a glucoside, and a large amount of resin known as churrus. In India the plant is eaten or smoked for its intoxicating effects. " Haschisch " is a confec- tion of the drug, " Bhang " a drink made from the powdered tops. Preparations— 1. Extractum Cannabis Indicse. Dose—1-1 gr. 2. Tinctura Cannabis Indicse. Dose—5-15 m. Is contained in T'inctura Chloroformi et Morphince Composita. The action of this drug is first of all stimulating to the central nervous system, causing an intoxi- cation analogous to that produced by alcohol. Larger doses are followed by lassitude, muscular weakness, and eventually sleep. It does not cause constipation, nor does it diminish the secretion of urine; and for these reasons it has been recommended as an anodyne and hypnotic in diseases in which opium is unsuitable, such as locomotor ataxia, neuralgia, gastralgia, and epilepsy. The preparations of cannabis indica, however, are unreliable, and the action of the drug varies greatly in different individuals. In some even a moderate dose causes great cerebral excitement and violent waking delirium. It has now to a great extent dropped out of use. The tincture is difficult to prescribe elegantly, because of the presence of the resin which is precipitated by water. Cannea. See Balneology {India, Ceylon). Cannes. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Cannibalism. -S'ee Ethnology. Cannula.—A tube, usually containing a puncturing instrument (trocar), introduced into a cystic tumour or body cavity to allow the escape of fluid; it may also be used for the admission of air (as in tracheotomy), for curing stenosis of a canal, or for cari'ying a plug to the posterior nares {Bellocq's cannula). Can or.—A metallic tinkling sound heard on auscultation. CanqUOin'S Paste.—A paste consist- ing of zinc chloride, zinc oxide, and wheat flour; caustic in action. CantharideS. See Dermatitis Trau- matica ET Venenata ; Nephritis (Etiology) ; Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Toxicology {Abortifacients).—Cantharis or Spanish Fly is derived from the dried and powdered beetle, Cantharis vesicatoria, collected chiefly in Hungary and Russia. The powder is greyish brown with shining green particles in it, and has a strong, disagreeable odour. The chief constituents are Cantharidin, the active principle; and two oils,