DISEASES OF 210 CONJUNCTIVA, eradicate it. Certain races—as Russians, Poles, Armenians, Jews, and Irish—are peculiarly sub- ject to the disease, probably because their mode of life favours the spread of infection. Negroes, curiously enough, are said to be practically exempt. In some countries, as Switzerland, trachoma is almost luiknown; in others, as Belgium, it is widely spread. It arises only by infection, but we know nothing definite as regards the pathogenic agent, thought by some to be a micro-organism, and by others to be a protozoon. This much, however, is certain— that infection is fostered by a gregarious life, by bad ventilation, by lack of cleanliness, by defective washing arrangements, and by the absence of isolation for those affected. Indeed, the clinical evidence of the transmissibility of trachoma is overwhelming. Both eyes are usually affected sooner or later. Symptoms.—Trachoma is essentially a chronic ailment, subject (particularly in the earlier stages) to acute or subacute exacerbations. To begin with, it affects the palpebral conjunctiva, but, later, may spread to the cornea. Its lead- ing features are — first, the development of "sago-grain" bodies in the conjunctiva; and, secondly, thickening of the palpebral mucous membrane. The "sago-grain body," which is almost essential to diagnosis, appears to be a "follicle," altered as the result of specific in- vasion, presumably by a micro-parasite. It is a round, opaque, greyish - white growth, deeply embedded in the hypertrophied conjunctiva, especially of the upper cul-de-sac. Micro- scopically, it consists of grouped lymphocytes, supported by a delicate stroma, and often more or less distinctly encapsulated. According to some recent researches, it may originate in the lymph-vessels or spaces of the conjunctiva. Discharge, except in acute cases, is seldom abundant. An almost constant sign of trachoma is ptosis, which gives the patient a sleepy look. The cornea may suffer in two ways, namely, by the development of pannus or of ulceration. A well-marked pannus gives a characteristic ap- pearance to the upper third or so of the mem- brane. The affected parts are irregular and cloudy, and few or many enlarged vessels (con- tinuous with those of the conjunctiva) branch out into the web. In bad cases the entire cornea may suffer, and vision be reduced to bare perception of light. Indolent ulceration is not uncommon along the free edge of a pannus. The usual explanation of the origin of pannus assumes that it is due to the irritation of a rough and thickened upper lip. This theory, nevertheless, is hardly borne out by the known facts. Without entering into contentious points, it may be safely asserted that pannus represents an actual trachoma of the cornea, brought about either by direct inoculation from the affected lid, or else by the metastasis of infective particles through vessels or lymphatics. Ulcerations of the cornea simply mean disintegration of the diseased material. The sequels of trachoma include scarring of the palpebral conjunctiva, shortening of the culs-de-sac, trichiasis, en- tropion, and imperfect sight as the result of corneal blemishes. Treatment.—Escharotic, surgical, and accessory means are used. For general use, the best escharotic is solid bluestone, rubbed over the exposed palpebral conjunctiva once a day. The application may be continued for years without harm. Where inflammatory symptoms are marked, 2 per cent solution of silver nitrate suits admirably, but it should be replaced by bluestone as soon as possible. Other escharotics are—corrosive sublimate solution (1 to 4 per cent), solid lapis divinus, and undiluted carbolic acid. Operative measures are to be adopted under the following circumstances:—(1) When large masses of granulations are present; (2) when the cornea is affected; (3) when local treatment has been tried for several months without success; (4) when a patient is unlikely to submit to a prolonged course of escharotic treatment; (5) when one eye is alone involved. The various operations include expression, par- tial removal of the upper retro-tarsal folds, and scrubbing the palpebral conjunctiva with a tooth-brush dipped in some antiseptic lotion. The chief accessory measures are the use of such lotions as previously mentioned, and the treat- ment of corneal ulcerations. Phlyctenular Conjunctivitis This condition is common in weakly children of the poorer classes, and frequently develops after measles or other zymotic disease. In many cases it is dependent on " scrofula" or " tubercle." Bach believes that it is set up by pyogenic microbes, particularly the staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus. He has succeeded by inoculation in producing the same affection, not only in rabbits, but also in human beings. Its chief importance is derived from the fact that it is often associated with a similar affection of the cornea. It is extremely prone to relapse, unless its cause can be made out and remedied. Knies has suggested that it should be termd "ecze- matous " when it coexists with eczema in other parts of the body, but that when such is not the case the neutral term " phlyctenular " should be retained. Symptoms.—One or more small pimples appear iipon the sclero-corneal j unction, and a triangular leash of vessels, having its apex at the affected spot, is generally present. The little nodule speedily loses its epithelium, becomes converted into a superficial ulcer, and then heals com- pletely. It may, however, resorb without at any time iilcerating. When phlyctenulfe lie in the ocular conjunctiva, at some distance from the limbus, they are usually large and accompanied by muco-purulent secretion. In children there