COCAINE 170 The Salts. — Hydrochlorate of cocaine, the officinal salt, is readily soluble in water, but insoluble in fats and oils. Physiological Action. — Local. — When a solution of hydrochlorate of cocaine is applied to a mucous membrane it produces temporary local anajsthesia and anaemia, which last for ten minutes or more, according to the strength of the solution used. If applied to a turgescent mucous membrane, it produces collapse of the swollen structures, luiless the turgescence has been so long continued as to result in connective- tissue hypertrophy. Temporary local dilatation of the blood-vessels may follow. When applied to the conjunctiva, slight smarting, followed by ansesthesia, results. The pupil is dilated, an effect ascribed by Roller to contraction of the vessels of the iris, but by most other authorities to irritation of the sympathetic. Accommodation is impaired, but this passes off more rapidly than the paralysis produced by atropine. The skin is much less affected by local application than are the mucous membranes. Internal. — Internally cocaine acts as a stimulant, producing a sensation of exhilaration and well-being, with increased mental and muscular power. In animals the brain, medulla, and spinal cord are stimulated from above downwards. Large doses produce convulsions of cerebral origin. The sensory tracts of the cord are paralysed, and anpesthesia results. This effect has been produced in animals by the administration of dangerous doses, but quite recently Bier has produced a similar effect in the human subject by the injection of small doses to ^ gr.) directly into the cerebro- spinal sac under conditions similar to those required by Quincke's exploratory puncture. He claims that complete anfesthesia can thus be safely produced below the level of the nipples. He has operated thus successfully on several patients chiefly for tuberculous bone and joint disease of the lower extremities. Circulatory.—Cocaine produces moderate stimulation of the heart's action. Resjnratory.—Respiration is powerfully stimu- lated, and its rhythm is disturbed. Death from cocaine poisoning results from paralysis of respiration and the exhaustion produced by the accompanying convulsions. Large doses produce a slight rise of tempera- ture. Cocaine is mainly destroyed in the body, but may in part be eliminated by the kidney. The amount of urine is said to be slightly increased, and the urea to be diminished. Methods of Application.—The great value of cocaine lies in its property of producing local ansesthesia, and for this purpose various methods of application are adopted. For the eye aqueous solutions of the hydro- chlorate of the strength of 2 per cent, or even of 4 per cent, are made use of, a drop or two of the weaker solution requiring to be applied two or three times at intervals of three or four minutes. For the mucous memhranes stronger solutions may be made use of even up to 50 per cent, but it is seldom necessary to use solutions stronger than 5 per cent. Several applica- tions of the weaker solutions may be made at intervals of three or four minutes, or a small piece of cotton wool soaked in the solution may be left in contact with the part to be rendered anaesthetic. For application to the skin, watery solutions are of little value, and for this purpose oily solutions of the alkaloid should be made use of. Injected hypodermically, ansesthesia is pro- duced for a limited area around the puncture. A watery solution is made use of, and the dose as a rule should be limited to half a grain. Where possible, e.g. in amputation of a finger, a ligature should be tied round the part to be operated on in such a way as to obviate the risk of toxic effects from the passage of the drug into the system. Another important method of application is that known as the infiltration method (Schleich). This is described in article " Anaesthetics," vol. i. p. 159. Uses.—Local.—-The degree of ansesthesia produced by cocaine when applied to the eye is sufficient to allow of practically any opera- tion being performed on the eyeball. It meets all the requirements that can reasonably be expected of a local anaesthetic, and hence has come to be regarded in ophthalmic practice as the anaesthetic par excellence. In nasal, aural, and throat operations it is of great value, and the manner of application and other points of practical importance will be specially referred to under "Ear" and "Nose." In dentistry it is useful in toothache, and is also used to deaden the exposed pulp or dentine before filling the cavity of a carious tooth. By injecting a dose into the gum on each side of a tooth the pain of extraction is greatly lessened. By hypodermic injection or by Schleich's in- filtration method nearly all minor surgical operations can be carried out painlessly. During labour it has been used to relieve the pain of the dilating os uteri, and to relieve spasmodic contraction due to pain. An oily solution of the alkaloid may be used to relieve the pain of shingles, eczema, neuralgia, pruritus, or urticaria. Acute coryza, acute pharyngitis, hay fever, and similar conditions may be much relieved, especially in early stages, by a spray of a watery solution. Internal.—Cocaine is used internally for sea- sickness and the vomiting of pregnancy, as a tonic during convalescence, in mental exhaustion and muscular debility, and it has been recom- mended in alcoholism and the opium habit, but