CATARACT 70 vitreous. In most cases where needling is done in this way it may be done in the course of a fortnight after the first opei'ation. The capsule is then elastic, and readily retracts so as to leave a gaping opening where it has been cut. The contra-indications to early needling are any abnormal degree of reaction following the extraction and the presence of much soft free cortex. In cases where owing to iritis the pupil has been closed and drawn up with the iris fibres put on the stretch, the opening is best made with a pair of small scissors constructed for the purpose (iridotomy scissors). An opening, which should not be too small, is made with a keratome in the corneo-scleral margin and the scissors introduced, with the sharp-pointed blade pushed behind the iris and the blunt one in front. As soon as the blades have passed over to the opposite side of the anterior chamber a snip is made. The cut, being at right angles to the stretched iris fibres, admits generally of sufficient retraction of these to maintain an opening. In the worst cases a bit of the opaque screen has to be cut out. In all such cases, however, the prognosis is less favourable. The large opening made in the eye for the extraction of the crystalline lens causes, as might be expected, some alteration in corneal curva- ture. This operative astigmatism has to be taken into account in determining the optical correction afterwards required for near and distant vision. It is some time—generally a good many weeks—before the amount of the astigmatism has become constant. The progress of cicatrisation leads to its getting gradually less and less for some time. The final astigma- tism varies in amount in different cases. This depends partly upon how the section has been made and how healing has taken place, but also upon the previous state of the eye as regards astigmatism. The operative astigmatism more frequently counteracts than supplements a previously existing astigmatism, as it is the horizontal meridian of the cornea which is most curved after operation. When the factor of pre-existing astigmatism is taken into account it will be found that for the same operator the acquired astigmatism is much the same when- ever healing has taken a normal course. One question remains to be considered, viz. How far in the case of slowly developing cataract is it necessary or advisable to wait until the cataract is ripe before operating 1 This question would no doubt be answered differently by different surgeons. The writer can only here offer such advice as his own experience leads him to consider sound. It has to be remembered that many unripe cataracts, especially in old people, can be extracted just as readily and as completely as can ripe cataracts. In many cases, however, a good deal more cortex remains in the eye. The cortex is often not only less readily removed but, being transparent at the time of operation, cannot be recognised. As the time taken for the sufficient clearing of the pupil depends upon the absorption of remaining cortex, unripe extractions take on the average somewhat longer before useful vision is restored, while the risk of iritis of all kinds is proportion- ately increased. A much larger proportion, too, reqviire the second operation of needling. Against these disadvantages have to be put those of having to remain for years without any useful degree of vision if one waits till a cataract is ripe. An estimate of the relative importance of the 2)ros and cons in this case can only be arrived at by personal experience. The following line of action is suggested here :— 1. Do not hesitate to operate on cataract that is unripe, provided the patient has otherwise healthy eyes and adnexa and the vision is so far reduced as to interfere seriously with comfort, e.g. makes the reading of ordinary type or the following of the ordinary occupation impossible. 2. Do not operate on unripe cataract of one eye as long as the other eye retains sufficiently useful vision. 3. Wait till the cataract is ripe in all cases in which the risks of extraction from any cause are evidently greater than usual. 4. Do not perform preliminary iridectomy or any other operation for the artificial ripening of the cataract. The practical result of following these rules is that one operates on a much larger proportion of unripe than of ripe cataract, but that when one has to regret the failure of the operation from sei'ious subsequent complications it is mostly in cases in which there was not much to be lost at any rate. Cataract Glasses.—After extraction, the eye, if previously emmetropic, becomes necessarily hypermetropic. The glass which then corrects for a distance when placed about 15 mm. in front of it is one of lO'O or 11'0 dioptres. That is, in the condition of ajihahia (absence of the crystalline lens) the previously emmetropic eye has to be provided with a glass lens of 4-10"0 to -t-11'0 in order to see distant objects distinctly. The retinal images then got of external objects besides being sharp are larger than they were previously in the proportion of about 3:2. If the eye were previously hyper- metropic a stronger lens would be required for correction, e.g. if the degree of hypermetropia were 5"0 D, the glass after extraction would require to be -|-16 '0 to -1-17 "0. If the eye were previously myopic the correcting glass on the other hand would have to be weaker, e.g. if the previous degree of myopia were 5-0 D the lens after extraction would have to be -I- 6'0 to + 7"0; if 10-0 D, -f3-0 to -^4-0; if 15-0 D, -f 0-75 to -I-1-50; if 20-0 D, -1-50 to -1-0 approxi- mately. In the last case, therefore, the operative