468 EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF I. Diseases of the Auricle These will be described as follows :—1. Trau- matic affections; 2. Malformations ; 3. Cuta- neous affections; 4. Morbid gTowtlis. 1. Traumatic. Affections.—Incised vjounds are common, involving, it may be, the complete severance of the auricle. In oriental countries this is frequently inflicted upon criminals and others. The lobule is sometimes lacerated, either gradually by the mere weight of an ear- ring, or suddenly by the pulling of the ear- ring, as is sometimes done by a child. The cleft thus produced may remain permanently. Simple incised wounds should be brought accurately together by sutures with antiseptic precautions; even when the auricle is almost com- pletely cut or torn off careful sutiu'ing may lead to healing. If the auricle be entirely lost, an artificial one may be substituted. An old cleft in the lobule should be treated by carefiilly paring its edges, followed by suturing. Traction and contusions of the auricle may lead to serious consequences. The author has seen a severe form of mastoid periostitis excited in a boy through a man laying hold of the boy's ears and lifting him from the ground. Contusions or prolonged pressures may produce rupture of the cartilage with effusion of blood beneath the perichondrium, forming a swelling at the upper and anterior part of the auricle. This is traumatic hoematoma auris or othcema- toma. The skin over the swelling may be unaltered ; but more frequently it has a dark reddish-blue appearance, and there is usually a painful sensation of fulness. The swelling is sometimes due more to perichondritis caused by the injury, and the effusion may then be serous or sero - sanguineous, becoming in some cases purulent. Even when the effusion consists of blood, the colouring matter is apt to deposit itself on the walls of the cavity, and only straw- coloured fluid may escape on puncturing. The so - called shrunken ear may result, especially if the cartilage has been torn, and is due to thickening of the tissues followed by con- traction. It is occasionally seen in professional boxers, and is observed on some of the classical statues of athletes. Hsematoma auris may, however, arise independently of injury, and the insane seem specially liable to this {see " Hsema- toma Auris "). Treatment of Traumatic Hcematonia Auris.— At first cold spirituous lotions, applied with moderate pressure, tend to reduce the swelling and to oppose inflammatory reaction. If the swelling continue, the application of blistering fluid will promote absorption. The author has found that aspiration of the fluid, with, in some cases, the subsequent injection of tincture of iodine, has been most successful. Failing these methods, especially if there be purulent forma- tion, the swelling should be incised, the contents removed, and the cavity treated by stuffing with iodoform gauze. 2. Malformations of the Auricle. — Certain malformations are connected with family and racial peculiarities, or with habits of dress. For example, the auricle may be seen lying unduly flat against the head, in elderly women, from the pressure of caps; so the prominently jutting-out ear, occasionally observed, may be caused, or at least aggravated, by the habit of boys pulling their caps down between the auricle and the head. Heavy ear-rings are some- times responsible for unsightly elongation of the lobule. The most important malformation of congenital origin is that of defective development. While entire absence of the auricle is very rare, it may be, on one or both sides, defective in form and size, or it may be represented simply by one or more small cutaneous or cartilaginous nodules or ridges. These rudimentary auricles may also be faulty in position, being frequently farther forward and lower down than normal, and the external meatus is usually either com- pletely wanting, or is represented by a short canal, terminating in a cul-de-sac. The mal- formation usually involves some of the deep parts, especially those external to the labyrinth, including the osseous meatus, the tympano- Eustachian passage, and sometimes the Fallopian canal. In the latter case there is facial paralysis. Cases, however, have been reported, though rare, in which rudimentary auricles were associated with normal conditions of the other parts of the ear. As might be expected, from the nature of the process of development, the maxillary and palate bones are sometimes found also malformed, producing asymmetry of the face. In such almormalities of the auricle and meatus there may be undoubtedly a certain amount of hearing, for it is to be remembered that the labyrinth, having quite a different mode of development from the middle and external ear, is not necessarily involved. While the labyrinth arises from an invagination of the primordial integument, the middle ear develops out of the first branchial cleft, from the posterior edge of which the auricle is formed. There is also the so-called fistula auris con- genita— an indentation or closed canal occa- sionally met with in front of the tragus or on the helix, containing whitish material, and it is regarded as a remnant of the first branchial cleft. Malformations of excess are less important, and generally take the form of one or two cartilaginous or cutaneous nodules in front of a normal auricle — the auricular appendages of Virchow, regarded as very rudimentary additional auricles. Polyotia, or complete additional auricles, have been only very rarely met with. Trea.t7nent.—For projecting ears a narrow, elongated portion of skin may be cut out, at the