118 CHOLERA, EPIDEMIC difference will be easily understood when we re- member that the winter temperature of New York is under freezing-point, while that of New Orleans is about 60° F. How favourable soever other circumstances may be, an extensive epidemy of cholera cannot occur in winter in higher lati- tudes, except under very exceptional conditions. 3. Means of Transport.—The view that the cholera virus can be transported for long dis- tances by the air is quite untenable. Bryden maintained that atmospheric moisture is the carrier of the virus, and that its distribution over India extends as far as the moisture-laden monsoon winds carry it. The rains supplied by the monsoon act in a different way ; they bring the soil into a condition fitted for the spread of the pestilence. The germs of the disease are always being carried from Bengal to the north- west, but they do not develop epidemic outbreaks luitil the condition of the soil favours the growth of the microbe. The principal means by which the virus is transported from place to place, so as to over- run vast regions, are {a) human intercourse, that is, by persons who have, or have had, the disease, or who harbour the vibrio, and things con- taminated by cholera discharges. That this is the principal means of its propagation is proved by the constancy with which cholera has followed caravan routes and lines of communication by river, road, rail, or ship, and by its rapidity of spread increasing as intercourse between distant countries becomes more rapid. In its early invasions of Europe, cholera followed the routes of caravan traffic. Cabul has always received the infection from India, and has been the centre from which it has advanced westwards. One route from Cabul passed through Central Asia, by Balkh, Bokhara, and Khiva to Orenburg; another through Persia by Herat, Mesched, Astrabad, Teheran, Reshed, Baku, and Astrakhan. An alternative route from Teheran led through Tabrees, Tiflis, Erzeroom, and Trebezond to the Black Sea. In the same way cholera invariably breaks out in an island at ports in communication with an infected place. In Russia in the olden time cholera followed the rivers, and on its first outbreak in England in 1832 it followed, as Hirsch points out, "the commercial highways chiefly, and the coast routes and rivers, while the mountainous parts of the country were little visited by it, and the Scottish Highlands not at all." When we remember that cholera has been five times epidemic in Mauritius, and that on each occasion it has broken out shortly after the arrival of vessels from India with the disease on board; that it broke out at Quebec in 1832 four days after the arrival of the Carrick, on board which cholera had prevailed during the voyage (and the Western Hemisphere had never up to that day been visited by the disease); that it appeared at New York in 1848, which was then free from the infection, on the arrival of a vessel which had lost seven passengers from cholera; that it appeared at New Orleans in the same year, three days after the arrival of the ship Swanton, thirteen of whose passengers had died of cholera during the passage ; and when we see it breaking out along the routes of pilgrims, tracking the march of armies, following the lines of emigration, we will be driven to the conclusion that human intercourse is the most important of all the means by which cholera is transported from place to place, from one country to another, across deserts and oceans. {b) Rivers.—A stream polluted by cholera discharges may carry the virus for very con- siderable distances to towns situated on its banks. In the last outbreak in Germany the frontier river Przemsza, a tributary of the Vistula, had become polluted by the cholera virus. Shortly afterwai'd, cases began to appear among the river raftsmen and bargemen on the Vistula. The cholera bacillus was found in the water of the river above Dantzig, where cases now began to appear. By the middle of June at least six German towns and villages on the banks of the river had become infected (see Local Government Report, 1897-98). (c) Ships, which are moving centres of in- fection, transport the virus across oceans. This usually happens through the agency of infected persons, but it may also take place by means of infected goods, ballast, or bilge water. 4. The diffusion of cholera in a given locality is a question distinct from that of its transport. (a) The vehicle by which it is most frequently conveyed into the system is dri7iki.ng water. AVhen the virus finds its way into the general water-supply of a city, as was the case in Ham- burg in 1892, the disease becomes rapidly and widely diffused. When wells become polluted we have local outbreaks, as happened in the well-known Broad Street explosion in London in 1854, in which the disease was practically con- fined to those who made use of a contaminated well, and ceased from the day on which the well was closed. The important part played by water in the spread of cholera is seen in the decrease of the disease in towns in which it was formerly preva- lent on the introduction of a pure water-supply. The average mortality of the European troops at Fort-William, Calcutta, was 20 per 1000 from 1826 to 1863. From the latter date, when the fort was for the first time su23plied with pure water, to the present time it has averaged 1 per 1000. Lahore had an average cholera death-rate of 1-07 per 1000 for the fifteen years 1848-61. In the period 1882-87—that is, after the intro- duction of water into the city from the Ravi River—it fell to 0-07 per 1000. That the re- duction in the cholera death-rate has really been due to the improved water-supply is proved by the fact that in the Lahore district (excluding the city) the cholera mortality, which was 0'34 in