DIPHTHERIA 400 ing from diphtlieria should be isolated. If he is kept at home all precautions should be taken to prevent the transmission of infection to others. As a rule, he should be kept in isolation for at least four weeks from the commencement of the illness. In the case of children the writer prefers isolation of at least six weeks. Even then they should not be allowed to mingle with healthy children at the end of that time if there is any discharge from the nose or inflam- matory condition of the fauces. The so-called " return " cases are not so common in connection with this disease as with scarlet fever. It has been stated by Park and others that as a rule the diphtheria bacilli are absent from the fauces three weeks after the disappearance of the exudation. But in the writer's experience cases have not infrequently occurred in which the organism has been present in a virulent form for several weeks or months after an attack of diphtheria, and that in spite of local antiseptic treatment. The question arises whether such a patient is to be kept isolated as long as the bacilli are present. On this point the writer can only say that he has not detained in hospital such cases for a longer period than three months, and some even for a shorter time; and to the best of his knowledge no secondary or " return " cases have been caused by such patients after their discharge. At the same time in letting such patients out of isola- tion it is advisable to impress upon the parents or friends the wisdom of keeping the recovered patient as far as possible to himself with respect to other children {e.g. not sleep with children, kiss them, etc.), and to be on the look-out for any recrudescence of sore throat. Prophylaxis.—Another question which arises iu the prophylaxis of diphtheria is: Should antitoxin be employed as a preventive agent As a rule the writer would answer, No. The prophylactic power of antitoxin does not last for more than three weeks, if so long. But there are a few well-reported and authentic instances where a case of diphtheria having occurred in an institution for children (hospital, school, etc.), and other cases having followed at intervals, the outbreak has been cut short apparently by submitting the remaining children to the injection of antitoxin. Therefore in special instances this measure is worth a trial. It is not necessary when injecting antitoxin as a prophylactic to give more than 600 units. Diphthongria or Dipthonia.— The production of two notes of different pitch, a form of vocal disturbance met with in some morbid states of the vocal cords. See Larynx, Benign Growths of {Clinical Features). DiplaCUSiS.—An incorrect hearing, two tones being heard when one only is produced. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {General Diagnosis); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-Sup- PURATIVE Disease {Hypertrophic Catarrh, Bis- harmonic Diplacusis). Dipleg'iaa—Paralysis of corresponding parts on both sides of the body, e.g. of both legs, of both arms, or of both sides of the face. See Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia). See also Mental Deficiency {Accidental, Acquired, Trau- matic). D 0 p I e U ral. — Bilateral (Gr. St's, double ; TrXivpov, the side). DiplOCephaluS. See Dicephalus. DiplOCOCCUS.—A double micrococcus or a pair of micrococci joined together as a dumb- bell-shaped organism, such as the D. intra- cellularis meningitidis, the D. albicans amplus, etc. See Acne {Acne Vulgaris, Micro-Organisms); Meningitis, Epidemic Cbrbbro-Spinal {Bac- teriology) ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflam- mation {Bacteriology, Diplococcus Pneumoniae) ; Suppuration {Etiology, Diplococcus Pneumonia;); Tuberculosis {Mixed Infection in). DipiOCOria*—Double pupil, e.g. that due to subdivision of the pupil by a band of per- sistent pupillary membrane; polycoria. Diploe.—The cancellated substance found between the inner and outer tables of compact tissue of the bones of the cranium; it contains thin-walled, branching, valveless veins; and it is absent in the orbital plates of the frontal and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. DiplOgrenesiS. — The formation of a double monster or polysomatous teraton ; diplo- teratology. DipSoma. — A document granted by a university or college, " testifying to a degree taken by a person, and conferring vipon him the rights and privileges of such a degree," e.g. to practise medicine. " The granting of diplomas by universities or other learned bodies proceeds on the supposition that the public require some assistance to their judgment in the choice of professional services, and that such an official scrutiny into the qualifications of practitioners is a useful security against the imposture or in- competency of mere pretenders to skill " (Illustr. quot. in Murray's New English Dictionary). Dipiomyelia.—A double condition, due to antenatal causes, of the spinal cord; dia- stematorayelia. Diplopia.—The seeing of single objects as double; double vision; it may be binocular, disappearing when one eye is shut, or (rarely) uniocular or monocular ; when it is binocular it may be homonymous (the position of the double images corresponding to the position of the eyes), or heteronymous or crossed (the left