263 CYCLOTIA median double eye witli aljsence or defective development of the lower jaw and approxima- tion of the external ears })elow the defective face ; Cyclops hypo-agnathus {Tariiffi,). In the accom- panying illustration the single eye (on the top of the head) is not shown. Set (JvcLoriA ; etc. CyesiS.—Pregnancy (Gr. Kvq<TL^, pregnancy or conce])tion); />seiiJoc//esis, therefore, is spurious pregnancy, and ci/esiognosin is the diagnosis of pregnancy. Cylindroma,.—A variety of epithelioma, containing cylindrical hyaline bodies, occurring most often on the face. CyllOSOmuS.—A teratological type in which there is lateral eventration in the lower part of the abdomen with absence or incomplete development of the lower limb of the same side ((ir. KvXXtU, crippled, and (nu/xa, the body). Cymenc—One of the benzene series of hydrocarbons; it is really methyl-isopropj'l- benzene (Cj,,Hj^); and it occurs in several vola- tile oils (e.f/. oleum eucah'pti and oleum carui). Cyna.nche.—Acute inHanmuition of the throat or of the neighbouring parts, causing ditticulty of breathing and of swallowing, some- times with protrusion of the tongue (dr. kvmv, a dog, and ay^eLv, to strangle) ; there are differ- ent varieties of it, such as cynanche parotidea (nuimps), cynanche laryngea (croup), cynanche thyroidea (goitre), cynanche tonsillaris (ijuinsy). See Angina, and under the various diseases (Larynx, Acute Inflammation ; etc.). Cynanthropia.—That form of insanity in which the sul)ject behaves like a dog (barks, runs, etc.), imagining himself to liave been changed into one. Cynic Spasm.—The contraction of the facial muscles by which the teeth are shown (as in a snarling dog), by the approximation of the angle of the mouth to the outer canthus of the eye. Cynobex Hebetis. -TIm barking cougli of ])ubci-ty, a ])eculiar convulsive or spasmodic cough occurring mostly in boys about the age of puberty. See Hysteria ; Spasm (Varieties). CynOCephai us.—The teratological type in wliirii tiie iiead of the fretus resembles that of a dog ; it is generally the result of anencephalus or exencephalus. Cynolyssa.—Rabies (y.v.). Cynorexia. See Bulimia.—A vora- cious appetite ; " hungry as a dog." CyOtOCia. — rarturition (Or. kw?, ovum, Mnd tcik-os', birth). CyphoSiS. See Kypikjsis; Spine, SuKoicAL AiKErTi(.)NS {AiKjuIav Curvature); etc. Cyprus Fever. See Unuulant l^'i'VKi; : Mali a Cyrtometer. — An instrument for measuring the curve of any part of the body (Gr. Kvpro'i, curved, and fUTpov, a measure), especially of any part, such as the chest, in which the ciu've is constantly varying; the curved tracing obtained is a ri/rto<iraph. See Physiology, Respiration (Moveinejits of Chest). Cyst.- -A morbid structure, consisting of a wall or sac and contents of varying natui'e in a licjuid or semi-solid state (Gr. kiVtis, bladder). See Bone, Diseases of {Cysts); Brain, Cysts AND Oy'stic Degeneration • Brain, Surgery of {Trephining, Cyst of the Brain) ; Joints, Diseases of {Tumours and Cysts); Kidney, Sur- gical Affections of {Cysts); Kiiiney, Surgical Affections of {Hydatid Cysts); Larynx, Benign Growths of {Cystoma); Liver, Diseases of {Cysts); Mammary (Jland, Diseases of {Cysts, Galactocele, MidtipJe, Serous, Hydatid); Ma.m- m.\ry Gland, Diseases of {Neoplasms, Cysto- Adenoma); ^Mediastinum {Certain Tumours, Der- moid, Cowjenital, and Hydatid Cysts); Neck, Region op {Cysts aiul Cystic I'umours); Ovaries, Diseases of {Cystic Tumours, Broad Ligament