158 CLIMACTERIC INSANITY still rank as authoritative, although his explana- tions of facts must be regarded as obsolete. Various studies of affections of the menopause have been made, e.g. Dr. Saundby (1885) pub- lished certain observations on numbness of the extremities occurring at the climacteric, quoting Dr. Ormond and Dr. Wharton Sinkler. Dr. Barnes (1890) and Dr. Savage (1893) have written of the neuroses of the menopause, and Dr. Merson (West Riding Asylum Reports, 1876) has given an elaborate summary of the cases of climacteric insanity in that institution during the four years prior to publication. These communications represent a compara- tively small volume of work in relation to an important epoch in the life-history of woman- kind. It may be considered doubtful if there is a real analogous condition in men. The momentous epoch in a woman's life, when the menstrual function ceases and her general physical con- dition undergoes a profound alteration, is so marked and is so determined by physiological changes that it cannot fail to be taken into account, even in the most elementary considera- tion of epochal modifications. At puberty the child becomes a woman in form and feeling. The menstrual functioii is established and con- tinues in periodic activity throughout sexual life. Any premature cessation of that function is accompanied by symptoms of ill-health, re- quiring active medical or surgical treatment; and when, in the course of vital involution, the function is being finally obliterated, it cannot but be, especially in the complex circumstances of the artificial life of civilisation, a period of stress more or less severe. The sexual life of a man, although, no doubt, obscurely periodic in character, has no such definite characteristics. The climacteric is but feebly indicated in the process of sexual decadence. No such active revolution, intimate in its connection with mind and body, forces itself upon medical attention. The familiar facts of the gradual slowing of life's current in men are ushered in by no such profound alterations as caused Madame de Deffand to exclaim, "Autrefois quand j'etais femme." For in this relation there is no question of premature senility, of organic degenerative nervous changes. The woman who has passed her grand climacteric is in no way enfeebled, it may be indeed that her mental powers are increased and that her physical energies are reinforced since the menstrual flux has ceased to be a recurring occasion of exhaustive and monthly disturb- ance. Still, when we consider the neurotic concomitants of the menopause in women, and find that these are usually marked by feelings of a melancholic type, a conscious loss of power, irritability, and general malaise, it must be admitted that similar nervous conditions do occur in men, although the period of life is more advanced, the symptoms are more fortui- tous, and recovery is less frequent. We have the high authority of Dr. R. Barnes in stating that probably few women go through the reproductive era without some nervous dis- order. They labour under painful, dangerous tension, often concealing their distress, although sometimes on the verge of breaking down. What, then, are the symptoms of the climac- teric in women 1 First, there is a period of unrest, of flushing, giddiness, tinnitus, head- aches, and general instability. In addition to subjective signs, there are frequently floodings, or other uterine disturbance, which may pass on to organic diseases of the worst type, or may pass off and leave the person to the enjoyment of many years of excellent health. Too often these complaints are treated lightly, as part of the ordinary and inevitable routine of sexual decadence. Too often suffering is endured in silence and protracted by unnecessary reticence. But the physician is not warranted in assuming that these minor troubles preliminary to the cessation of menstruation are of slight import- ance and undeserving of active treatment. He can never be sure that nervous instability will not proceed to pronounced mental disorder, that floodings will not prove symptomatic of cancer- ous growths. Investigation and rational treat- ment must go hand in hand. Promptitude is essential. Of late years the gynjecologist has been fre- quently forced to create an artificial menopause, and much blame has been deservedly cast upon those who have been held guilty of carrying operative measures to extremes. They have been charged, in unseemly terms, with needlessly unsexing women. They have been accused of creating greater evils than they removed. Cases have been recorded where the removal of ovaries has been detrimental to mental health, and the last state of the patient rendered worse than the first. An artificial menopause has been fol- lowed by a climacteric insanity. In the earlier stages of neurotic maladies associated with the climacteric, the bromides are in common use. I have, however, found general and considerable benefit from the ad- ministration of ovarian substance in the form of tabloids. There is a disturbance of the animal economy consequent on excess of natural secre- tions, but there is also a disturbance depend- ent upon deprivation. If the sudden cessation of ovarian activity be accompanied by such symptoms as have been indicated, it is reason- able to suppose that the artificial ingestion of ovarian substance will in measure restore the balance which has been destroyed, and gradually accommodate the system to the new order of things which is imminent. It would seem that ovarian substance is in these slighter forms of nervous disturbance, at all events, a valuable remedy, to be prescribed on reasonable grounds.