CHOREA 130 Dance) consists in a group of characteristic symptoms of subacute onset, and chiefly occur- ring in children. Etiology.—Age.—Chorea is essentially a dis- ease of childhood and adolescence, the vast majority of cases occurring between the ages of five and fifteen years. After iifteen years of age chorea is much less common as a primary attack, although second and third attacks are by no means uncommon after puberty. After the age of twenty chorea becomes still less fre- quent, although no age is exempt, and the disease may develop even up to an advanced age, as in one form of chorea senilis. Sex.—The female sex is much more liable to this disease than the male, the average propor- tion being three girls to one boy. After the age of fifteen there is a still greater preponder- ance of female patients. Hereditary Influence. — A family diathesis towards rheumatism is very common, and should be inquired for in every case of chorea. In a considerable proportion of cases a family history of nervous diseases can also be obtained. Rheumatism and Endocarditis. — Experience shows that a very large number of cases occur in patients who have had articular rheumatism. Many patients develop rheumatism in the course of an attack of chorea or at a subsequent period. Also many cases of chorea are preceded or fol- lowed by endocarditis. The endocarditis is sometimes discovered for the first time during the course of the chorea, and it is rare to find a patient with a second or third attack of chorea in whom the cardiac soimds are normal. In a recent series of forty-one consecutive cases of chorea, in twelve of them (including a primigravida) there was a history of previous rheumatic fever; another patient developed pain and swelling in both wrist-joints whilst under observation, within a week after the onset of the chorea ; whilst another primigravida, who had previously had two attacks of chorea, developed pain and swelling in one knee-joint a fortnight after the commencement of her attack of chorea gravidarum. Of the remaining twenty-seven cases, fifteen had a strong family history of rheumatic fever, whilst in the remaining twelve there was no history of rheumatic fever either in the patient or in the patient's near relations. Yet out of these twelve no fewer than five had mitral regurgitation, one had mitral stenosis which ultimately proved fatal, and only six had no valvular affection of the heart. Scarlet fever with arthritic manifestations is recorded in a few cases to have been a direct antecedent of chorea. Fright, emotion, traumatism, or some variety of shock to the nervous system is a fairly com- mon antecedent to an attack of chorea, although the majority of cases develop without such an exciting cause. Still a history of some fright or shock is obtained in from 20 to 30 per cent of cases. Mental emotion as an alleged exciting cause is more common in adolescents, from the age of sixteen upwards, than in childhood. But the study of a number of cases of chorea attri- buted to emotion shows that the vast majority of them occur in constitutions which are already rheumatic. Moreover, the history of mental shock is often an indefinite one, and early choreic symptoms are often present before the advent of the emotion which exaggerated them. In the above series of forty-one cases, fifteen gave a history of some fright or mental shock, \>\\t of these fifteen only one was free from evidences of rheumatism, twelve of the others having either had rheumatic fever or mitral disease, and the remaining two having a very strong family history of rheumatic fever. It vised to be thovight that chorea may spread from one patient to another by imitation. Small epidemics of choreiform movements, such as have now and then been recorded in girls' boarding-schools, are really hysterical in nature and not truly choreic. A primarily choreic child, however, may have a relapse of true chorea from the excitement of seeing another patient with a similar affection. The presence of worms in the intestinal canal has been believed by some to cause the disease in certain cases by reflex irritation. But in the above series of cases the only case of chorea in a child with tape-worm occurred in a girl who had previously had an attack of rheumatic fever. Pregnancy undoubtedly acts as an exciting cause in certain patients, the disease developing in the early months of gestation, usually from the third to the fifth month, either in previously healthy patients, or more freqiiently in cases with a previous history of rheumatism or of actual chorea. Young primigravidse are chiefly so affected, frequently unmarried girls. The connection between the chorea and the preg- nancy is so close a one that when the pregnancy comes to an end, either in a normal manner or by abortion, the chorea ceases. Frequently the disease recurs with succeeding pregnancies {vide " Chorea Gravidarum "). Symptoms.—The disease is gradual in onset, usually taking a day or two to develop suffi- ciently to call attention to the presence of any abnormality. The patient is often fretful and more irritable than usual; then restless, wrigg- ling movements are observed in the limbs, face, and trunk. The child at school cannot sit still, and the teacher complains that the patient's handwriting is clumsy and untidy. Often the patient drops things suddenly out of the hand. Sometimes this condition is not recognised as being really due to disease, since a degree of motor restlessness is present in many children during mental embarrassment or other emotion. The choreic child is often considered at first to be merely badly behaved, but as the symptoms