DYSENTERY 442 misery in the Central Provinces, the death-rate from dysentery and diarrhoea was more than four times that in ordinary years. The same connection between famine and dysentery in warm cHmates has been noticed in Senegambia, Algiers, and Tmiis (Hirsch). Dysentery of a spreading kind is a no less constant attendant on war, affecting alike the troops in the field and those subjected to siege. In the latter case the troops suflfer in common with the civilian population. In war dysentery three sets of factors come into operation: (a) conditions which predispose the system to the disease, among which are bodily exhaustion, exposure to heat and cold, lying on damp groimd, over- crowding in the case of besieged garrisons, and often scarcity and bad quality of food; (Jj) con- ditions which more directly determine infection, such as the pollution of soil and water by faecal matters; (c) facilities for the spread of the infection when the disease has once made its appearance among a densely massed body of men. Personal Conditions.—Race.—It is frequently stated that Europeans in warm climates are more liable to dysentery than the natives. This is not the case in India. The admission- rate per 1000 of the European army of India (1897) was 45"7, that of the native army 66'4. All ages suffer from dysentery. If we include under dysentery the hsemorrhagic catarrhal complaints of infancy and childhood, dysentery makes most victims in those under five years of age. In 1878, the dysentery death-rate of the army of India was 1"73 per 1000, that of European children 3'84 per 1000. The sexes suffer in nearly the same proportion. The poor suffer more than the rich. Dysentery is more prevalent in small towns and villages than in largo cities. There is no acclimatisation for dysentery. During his first year in a tropical country the European is more liable to the dis- ease than in the two or three following years, but after the fourth or fifth year the liability appears, upon the whole, to increase, according to the length of residence in the tropics. Pathological Anatomy.—Non-amoebic Form. ■—From the stand-point of pathological anatomy non-amoebic dysentery presents three varieties : (a) That in which there is no croupous or diph- theritic deposits, the lesions being inflammatory, ulcerative, and gangrenous. This, for the sake of distinction, we shall speak of as inflammatory dysentery; {b) In another variety the surface of the mucosa presents a croupous deposit, the sub- mucosa being little or not at all affected. This is croupous dysentery, (c) In a third class of cases the mucous and sub-mucous coats are the seat of exudation—diphtheritic dysentery. The croupous and diphtheritic varieties appear to be grades of the same process. The croupous form necessarily terminates in ulceration, which is principally superficial; the diphtheritic ends in ulceration and sloughing of the mucosa and sub-mucosa, and often enough of the muscular coat. The lesions of two, or all, of these varieties may be met with in a single case. As regards site, dysentery is generally most marked at one or other extremity of the large intestine,—the caecum and ascending colon, or the descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rec- tum. I have often seen, however, the whole of the large intestine so involved that it was difficult to say what particular part was most affected. A catarrhal inflammation is the initial stage of all the varieties mentioned. The mucous membrane at the seat of the disease is more or less thickened, of a dark red colour, studded with ecchymotic points, and covered with blood- stained mucus. The congestion is either toler- ably uniform over a large surface, or is disposed in streaks or patches affecting chiefly the mucovis folds. This stage is often observed in certain parts of the bowel when the disease has already gone on to ulceration and sloughing in other places. In a case observed by Clouston, in which death occurred after two days' illness, the mucous membrane of the cfEcum was found to be reddened and thickened in small patches, which ran into one another like the eruption of the skin in measles. The transverse colon was mottled and thickened, the descending colon and rectum was less affected. In the rectum the mottling was mixed with red points the size of a pin's head. There was no ulceration, although the stools contained blood, and no membranous deposit had yet appeared, although the epidemy in which the case occurred was of the croupous kind. In the catarrhal stage the capillaries and small veins are engorged ; the follicles are often surrounded by a zone of congestion. The epi- thelium is partially detached, and the solitary glands are often more or less enlarged. When the disease in the inflammatory variety has advanced beyond the catarrh stage small necrotic spots situated in the mucosa are often observed, along with ulceration, and it is not improbable that the ulcers in most cases start from these necrosed foci. The ulcers increase in size and depth, and are generally transverse to the axis of the gut. In severe cases, side by side with ulcers, are sloughs of an ashy or dark colour, or the affected portions may be found converted into a dai'k putrescent mass. Excep- tionally, the whole of the large intestine is gangrenous, and on opening the abdomen the bowel may be seen, as Chevers expressed it, coiled up like a dead snake, a flaccid gangrenous mass. A case is recorded and figured by Cayley in which the whole of the mucous membrane from the caecum to the anus presented the appearance of a suppurating sore. Whether mild or severe, no croupous or diphtheritic deposit is observed in the inflammatory form. The calibre of the bowel is not narrowed, and what-