296 DEFORMITIES flexed to a few degree!?, and is often rotated outwards. Abduction of the limb is also lessened. In fact, symptoms may be summed up as follows: — Peculiar stiffness of the hip, referred to " growing" pains; the stiffness is worse on rising after sitting for a time, but is relieved by complete rest; limping, if one side is affected; waddling, if both ; shortening, amoiuiting to as much as li inch ; prominence of the trochanters, especially on flexing the thighs ; displacement of the trochanter above Nelaton's line, and back- wards as well; rotation outwards of the limb, and eversion of the foot, limitation of inversion and final loss of abduction, with, in an extreme case, " scissor-legged " progression and inability to walk without crutches; tilting of the pelvis and consecutive scoliosis. The signs which are absent are:—Suppuration, thickening of the trochanter, tenderness on pressiire, absence of the up-and-down movement on traction charac- teristic of congenital hip displacement. Diagnosis.—It is very difhcult to distinguish early coxa vara from coxitis, and the administra- tion of an ansesthetic is often called for, but there can be no doubt that a small number of cases diagnosed as incipient coxitis prove to be coxa vara. Fracture of the neck of the femur, iipper part of the shaft or separation of the epiphysis, especially if not seen until some time after the accident, may be diflicult of identifica- tion. So too may congenital dislocation of a slight degree, but in the Rontgen rays we have a most valuable means at our command for diagnosis. Prognosis.—Complete rest quickly relieves the pain, and the depression of the head and neck of the femur cease, and in some cases the length of the limb may be restored by traction. If the deformity is left to itself, the patient can scarcely hobble along on account of the exceed- ing adduction of the limbs. Treatment.—In the early stages entire rest, local massage, and passive motion in the direction of the limited movements will effect much. Failing these, complete recumbency and the employment of traction to the limb are of service. When the depression of the head has apparently reached its limit, an oblique osteotomy through the great trochanter, with the limb subsequently pxit up at an angle of abduction of about 25 or 30 degrees, will do much to remedy the deformity. In those cases in which the bending is in the shaft just below the trochanter minor, the wedge-shaped osteotomy is of service. The subsequent use of the cork sole will be necessary on account of the shortening if the affection is unilateral. Deg^eneracy.—The failure to reach the normal of healthy development as seen in the loss of that degree of mental power and physical completeness which is the natural heritage of the individiial. See Insanity, Etiology of {Degeneracy); Insanity, its Nature AND Symptoms {Insane Diathesis, Degeneracy). Degenerates. — Those suffering from degeneracy; those who have lost, either in mental power or in physical development, some of their racial characters. See Hypnotism {Therape^itic Uses in Vicious and Degenerate Children); Lunacy (Definition, "degenerates"); Paranoia {Systematised Insanity in the De- generate).'^ Deg^eneration.—A process of decay or disintegration or transformation by which the life of the cells of an organ or tissue is interfered with so that the functions of the part are less perfectly performed or are not performed at all; strictly speaking, the cells continue to live, although in a crippled condition, and are able to perform their functions in a defective fashion or, perhaps, to perform functions of a lower order; degenerations are with difficulty separated from infiltrations. Some of the best known degenerations may be named : amyloid (waxy or lardaceous) degeneration, atheromatous, calcareous, caseous, colloid, cystic, fatty, fibroid, fibro-fatty, granular, hyaline, mucoid, parenchy- matous ("cloudy swelling"), and pigmentary degeneration. Degre n e rat i o n, N i ss I's.—The changes which occur in a nerve cell when the axon is cut, such as decrease in the chromatin of the nucleus with displacement of the latter to one side, etc. See Physiology, Tissues {Nerve, Inter-oi-elation- shix> of Neurons). Degreneration, Reaction of.— When, in the galvanic stimulation of a muscle, separated from its nerve, the anodal closing contraction becomes much exaggerated, it is said to give the reaction of degeneration. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Electrotonus). Degflutition. — Swallowing. See Alco- holism {Motor Variations, Impairment of De- glutition) ; Brain, Affections op Blood-Vessels {Paralysis from Vascular Lesions, Pseudo-lndhar Paralysis, Reflexes); Brain, Cerebellum, Affec- tions OF {Tumour, Difficulty of Deglutition) ; Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Laryngeal Phthisis); Lungs, Gangrene of {Deglutition Pneumonia); Muscles, Diseases of { Irichiniasis, Symptoms, Imp>lication of Pharyngeal Muscles) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Swalloiving). Dehiscence.—Splitting open or burst- ing, e.g. the dehiscence of a Graafian follicle in the ovary during ovulation. See Generation, Female Organs of {Ovaries). Dehumanisation. — The loss of human characteristics (mental and physical) as seen in the insane.