36 BUENS AND SCALDS JSuRNS OF THE Second Degeee.-—Vesication.— More prolonged exposure to flames, solids, or fluids at or above 100° C, or direct application of steam, are the common causes of burns of the second degree. Here and there over an area which presents all the features of a burn of the first degree to an aggravated extent, there appear, either im- mediately after the accident, or, more frequently, not till some hours later, a number of vesicles or blisters. Each vesicle consists of a raised portion of epidermis, under which may be seen serum of a yellowish or brownish colour. Some- times the vesicles burst, the serous or sanious fluid escapes, and the surface underneath is seen to be of a bright scarlet colour, the papillae of the skin standing out as fine velvety pro- jections, excessively sensitive to pressure or friction, and from which serous fluid freely oozes. No permanent scar remains after the healing of such burns, but the part may for some time show a slight depression or dark- coloured pigmentation. Infection by septic bacteria may induce superficial suppuration, and so delay repair. Burns of the Third Degree.—Partial De- struction of the True Shin.—This usually results from contact with hot metals, the prolonged application of flames, or from fluids at a tem- perature above 100° C. The epidermis, Malpighian layers of the skin, and the papillEe are more or less disorganised, and patches may be completely destroyed, leav- ing hard, dry, and shrunken sloughs of a yellow or black colour, and quite insensitive. The surrounding areas show damage to the first and second degrees. The pain in these burns is intense, but passes off' during the first day, to return again, however, when, about the sixth or seventh day, the sloughs separate and expose the nerve filaments of the underlying skin. Granulation tissue fills up the gap, and by its contraction may lead to a certain amount of depression in the pale scar which results. Burns of the Fourth Degree.—Total De- struction of the True Skin.—Any form of intense heat if sufficiently long applied may produce burning to the fourth degree. The local de- struction of tissue extends right through the true skin and usually involves the underlying connective tissue and fat. Large black, dry eschars are formed, around which a ring of white tissue is seen, and outside this a zone of intense congestion which gradually merges into the normal skin. As the cutaneous nerves are completely destroyed in burns of this degree, pain is not severe. Infection is very prone to occur by organisms passing from the surround- ing skin into the sloughs, and profuse suppura- tion often ensues. Cicatrisation is always slow, and leaves deep, irregular, and often puckered cicatrices, which by their contraction in coui'se of time tend to produce varying degrees of deformity according to their situation. In the region of the neck, the face, or the flexures of large joints the distortion is often extreme, and may call for active surgical interference to remedy it. Burns of the Fifth Degree.—Charring of Muscles.—This degree of burning is frequently met with in epileptic, apoplectic, or alcoholic persons who, while unconscious, have remained for a prolonged period in contact with hot metal, flame, or chemicals. All the tissues of the part down to the muscles are destroyed, and joints or serous cavities may be opened into. Large nerves or vascular trunks may be im- plicated, and profuse hajmorrhage may occur, either at the time of the accident, or later when the sloughs separate by suppuration. Septic infection of any synovial or serous cavity which happens to be implicated is more than prob- able. In many cases the only hope for the patient lies in amputation. Burns of the Sixth Degree.—Char-ring of Bones.—When burning goes to this extent the result is usually fatal, and when a limb is implicated amputation is imperative. Pathology of Burns.—The cause of death in rapidly fatal, extensive, superficial burns is the chief point of pathological interest. It has long been recognised that the general constitutional disturbance following extensive superficial burns is proportionately much greater than is observed in severe, deep burns. As Bardeen puts it, " There seems to be something especially noxious in the merely superficial burn." Such injuries are almost universally fatal, especially in children, when more than one-half of the surface of the body is involved, even should the burns be of the most superficial kind. Many theories have from time to time been put forward to explain this fact. Thus the views that the grave symptoms residting so often in death are due to interference with the respiratory, the excretory, the heat - regulating, or even the protective functions of the skin, have each had their advo- cates. More extended observation by modern methods, however, has thrown doubt upon most of these theories. The chief naked-eye lesions found after death have been a general hypersemia of the organs of the abdominal, thoracic, and cerebro-spinal cavities, sometimes accompanied by serous or sanious exudation—conditions which have been attributed to a reflex vasomotor disturbance. These changes appear to take some time to be produced, because if death be very rapid they are not observed. If the patient survive a few days, active inflammatory signs may supervene in the intestinal canal, lungs, pleura, kidneys, or meninges, and ulceration may follow in the stomach or duodenum. The relative frequency of these lesions may be gathered from the follow- ing statistics of 200 cases by Schjerning:—