CONJUNCTIVA, DISEASES OF 213 three times a day. However, more success is to be looked for from the employment of general than of local measures. Pe7nphigus.—The conjunctiva is occasionally affected by pemphigus, which may or may not be associated with a similar disease of the skin or of other mucous membranes, especially those of the lips, nose, mouth, and fauces. From time to time bullte make their appearance upon the conjunctiva, which becomes, at first, thick and red, and, later, undergoes cicatricial con- traction. It is rare, however, to see the actual blebs, because they are so delicate as to rupture speedily. In this way the conjunctival sinuses are shortened or altogether obliterated, trichiasis or entropion is set up, and the lids become ad- herent to one another or to the globe of the eye. The corneal epithelium also suffers, be- coming dull and dry, like the eye of a dead fish. To this advanced condition the name " essential phthisis " or " essential atrophy of the conjunctiva " has long been applied. The condition is essentially chronic. As a rule, the prognosis is bad, although a few cases seem to recover. According to modern researches, pemphigus is due to a diplococcus, diff"erent from any of the ordinary pyococci, and capable of cultivation upon various media outside the human body. The acute form of the disease attacks butchers with disproportionate fre- quency (Pernet). It seems likely that the conjunctival affection may arise in one of three ways : (1) as a primary disease resulting from ectogenous inoculation; (2) as an ex- tension, through the lacrymal passages, from pemphigus of the mouth or nose; and (3) by conveyance of the specific microbe by the patient's finger from cutaneous bulla;. Treat- ment. — The treatment is purely palliative. Arsenic may be administered internally, and the conjunctiva kept clean and supple with ointments containing corrosive sublimate (gr. ^), iodoform (gr. 5), or boric acid (gr. 60). Boro- glyceride has also been employed. Attempts to remedy the condition by transplantation of mucous membrane from other parts of the body have so far not yielded very encouraging results. Lardaceous Degeneration.—This rare disease has been observed chiefly by Russian surgeons. It is marked by a progressive, non-intianunatory hypertrophy, commencing in the retro-tarsal folds or plica semilunaris, and slowly spreading to other parts of the conjunctiva. The affected mucous membrane is of pale colour, resembles in appearance bacon-fat, and does not bleed when incised. It is said to attack adults, Avho may or may not have suff"ered from trachoma, and to occur independently of degeneration elsewhere, as in the liver, spleen, or kidneys. Treatment. — Excision, partial or complete, is recommended by those who have had experi- ence of the disease. Conjunctivitis Petrificans.—Under this name Leber has described a peculiar aff"ection of the conjunctiva, which becomes chronically in- flamed and bestrewn with white, opaque dots. The chalky-white colour of the deposits con- trasts with the redness of the mucous membrane in which they lie. They gradually get larger, so that the jaarts involved finally look almost as though they had been petrified. Leber found the deposits to consist of an organic combina- tion of chalk. It is noteworthy that in Leber's case the disease led to partial symblepharon, and that the mucous membrane of the tongue showed epithelial changes. Various Conditions Pteryginm.—A condition of the ocular con- junctiva, a fold of which assumes a triangular form, and becomes firmly adherent to the superficial layers of the cornea. The true pterygium occurs only on the inner or outer side of the cornea in the region corresponding to the palpebral fissure. A false pterygium, however, may be met with in other positions. At first, when the pterygium is growing, it is thick and fleshy and marked by obvious vessels, like the wing of an insect; later, it becomes thin and pale and almost of cicatricial appear- ance. Its course is essentially chronic. During the progressive stage, it gives an unsightly look to the eye, may mechanically limit the ocular movements, and may encroach on the visual part of the cornea. The condition, which is rare in women, is met with chiefly in middle- aged men. It specially affects those who have lived abroad, and is rather common in sailors, probably because they are exposed to vicissi- tudes of weather. Theories. — Arlt assumes that noxious influence, such as dust, causes the epithelium of the conjunctiva and cornea to be shed, so that a little superadded swelling makes those two structures to adhere and a point or tag of conjimctiva to become fastened to the cornea. Fuchs believes that it originates from a Pinguecula which has gradually made its way into the cornea, and in so doing drawn a fold of conjunctiva with it. A kind of spurious pterygium may now and then follow acute ophthalmia, burns, or scalds. Treatment.—If the condition be stationary, and have not en- croached seriously on the cornea, it is best left alone, but otherwise an operation must be per- formed. The pterygium is carefully dissected away from the cornea, and, its apex being folded upon itself, is retained under the ocular con- junctiva by a suture. The conjunctival wound must be closed as neatly as possible by means of a continuous silk thread. The cornea, it must be remembered, always remains cloudy at the spot where the pterygium was attached. Symblepharon.—This condition is marked by one or several adhesions between the ocular and the palpebral conjunctiva. It is caused by any-