371 DIGESTION AND METABOLISM according to the dcgi'ee of motor and peptic cfliciency, from 2-6 hours. Usually the examina- tion of the contents is undertaken 3^ hours after the meal. Lastly-, the meal, on account of its large quantity, is not easily taken by all patients. liiegel's meal has, however, some advantages not shared l)y that of Ewald and Boas. In the first place, it lays a much greater demand upon the many-sided functional activity of the stomach, and therefore frequently gives one a better insight into what the stomach is really capable of performing. The results obtained by these methods do not always agree. The total acidity is usually found higher after Riegel's test meal than after that of Ewald and Boas. On the other hand, one must not omit to mention that in some cases, in which the production of iiydrochloric acid is greatly diminished, e.r/. in carcinoma ventriculi, free hydrochloric acid may be foimd after Ewald's test meal, whereas after that of Kiegel a negative result of the examination is not infreciuent. The explanation of this apparent contradiction lies in the fact that the large amount of proteid in Riegel's test meal is able to enter into loose combination with all the hydrochloric acid secreted. Another important advantage is that it may be employed in the same way as the similar meal advised by Leulie for testing the motor efficiency of the stomach. For general use, if only one method be employed, prol)ably Ewald!s is the more convenient. The gastric contents may be obtained b}' means of a soft rubber tube or sound about 75 cm. in length, and of variable diameter, 6-7 mm. being the average, to whose upper end a small glass tube (about 4 inches in length) is connected by means of rubber tubing. The lower end of the sound may be closed or possess a terminal aperture, but in all cases should have one large or several small (Ewald and Rosenheim) lateral openings. The presence of the lateral openings lessens the risk of obstruc- tion by food particles. The sound, having been rendered aseptic, is placed in warm water. In syphilitic, tuberculous, or cancerous cases, separate sounds ought to be used for each class of case. The upper glass end is then put into a vessel, which may be held by the patient. The lower end of the sound is next introduced into the patient's mouth, and pushed as far back as the root of the tongue (for this manipu- lation the introduction of the operator's finger is unnecessary). If the patient now swallow once or twice the tube will glide into the upper end of the oesophagus, its descent into the stomach being afterwards aided by slowly and rhythmically pushing it onwards until about 45 cm. of the tube has been introduced. For obtaining the gastric contents one of two methods — expression or aspiration — may be employed. The former method is the simpler and the one most frequently used. The patient is requested to take a deep inspiration, and then by the contraction of his abdominal muscles to expel the gastric contents upwards through the sound into the vessel prepared for their recep- tion. The index finger should then be placed on the opening of the glass tube and the sound rapidly withdrawn. The closure of the lumen of the tube by the finger prevents the escape of the fluid contained within the soimd and rubber tube. By removing the finger the contents are then allowed to flow into the receiving vessel. For the aspiration method. Boas' aspirator, or other similar instrument, may be employed. A description of the different forms in use is un- necessary, since the expression method has the advantage of greater simplicity, and is quite as efticient. II. Clhiical examination of tlie (jastric contents. — A. Macroscopic examination.—The chief points to note in the macroscopic examination are the quantity, consistence, odour, and colour of the contents, as well as the presence of any foreign constituents, such as bile, lilood, ab- normal quantities of mvicus, etc. Before forming an opinion with regard to the iiuantity, one must feel sure that the tota contents have at least been approximately ob- tained. The (piantity is, of course, largely dependent on the form of meal taken. No conclusion can be drawn from the quantity of the contents as to the peptic activity of the gastric juice. The digestive activity of the juice can be better ascertained from the other macroscojiic appearances of the contents. From the quantity found, however, one can infer whether motor insufficiency of the stomach is present or not. In cases of increased motility the stomach may be found nearly empty after Riegel's test meal within a shorter interval than the normal one of seven hours. In other cases the quantity is abnormally large, or the stomach is found to still contain food residues after the lapse of seven hours. These ai-e primarily cases of motor insufficiency. As will be seen later, motor and secretory insufficiency run by no means alwaj's parallel. Lastly, in some cases a larger quantity is found than that which was introduced into the stomach. These cases were hard to explain according to the former view that water was absorbed from the stomach. More recentl\% however, von Mering has shown that not only is little or no water absorbed by the stomach ; Init, on the contrary, the absoq^tion of certain 1 substances, e.fi. sugar, dextrin, peptones, and I alcohol, is associated with a secretion of water j into the stomach. I It is further important to note the presence 1 or absence of undigested food residues, and also 1 whether these food residues are chiefly carbo- I hydrate or chiefly proteid in nature. A fine uniform liquefied mass suggests active peptonis- 1 ing power, accompanied, it may be, by hyper-