BREATH 0 the absorption of oxygen and discharge of carbon dioxide Y>er kilo, of body weight fell rapidly, so that the respiratory quotient which before the fast was 0-73, on the tliird day of fasting had fallen to 0'65, and remained daring the remain- der of the fast between 0'65 and 0'68. Vegetable food raises the respiratory quotient to nearly unity, while on flesh diet it is about 0-74, and on a mixed diet somewhat higher, these differences depending upon the amount of carbon present in the food. The relations of the breath to the etioloyi/ of disease are not perfectly clear, but it is known : (a) that animals made to rebreathe the same air die idtimately of asphyxia; and (6) there is considerable volume of evidence to show that persons living in crowded and ill - ventilated rooms, where they are compelled to breathe over again air which has been already exhausted by themselves and others, become anfcmic and ill, and arc especially liable to become attacked by tuberculosis ; (c) the tubercle bacillus has been foiuid in the expired breath of consumptive patients, so that doubtless it may aff'ord a channel of infection for this and for other diseases. It is believed that measles, scarlatina, diphtheria, influenza, and the infection of a common cold may be communicated by the breath—a matter of the greatest importance in reference to prophylaxis. A good deal of discussion has taken place as to the causes of the asphyxiating property of air vitiated by respiration, and the subject is con- sidered in the article " Asphyxia." Clinical Diagnosis. — Examination of the breath may be utilised for purposes of dia- gnosis : — {a) For) the determination of death it is a common practice to apply a feather to the mouth or the nose, or the polished surface of a mirror, in order to see whether any movement of air or deposition of watery vapour takes place. (6) The temperature of the breath varies with the body temperature—for example, falling very low in the cold stage of cholera and rising high in fever. (c) The odour of the breath is modified by smoking or chewing various aromatic substances, or by eating certain articles of food, such as garlic, which contain strong-smelling compounds. Alcohol gives a characteristic odour to the breath, as do many substances used as drugs— for example, bismuth, copaiba, and the mineral poisons, especially mercury. The breath of women daring menstruation may have a sweet odour like that of chloroform. In uraemia the breath often smells of ammonia, which may be demonsti'ated by the production of thick white fmnes when a glass rod clipped in hydrochloric acid is brought near the mouth, while in diabetes its odour has been variously compared to hay, apples, sour beer, and vinegar. In pyjemia and allied conditions (septicaemia, etc.) the odour of the breath is sweet. In dyspepsia and constipa- tion the l)reath is foul and sometimes almost ftecal in odour, while, when stcrcoraceous vomit- ing is present, it is undoubtedly fsBcal. Local morbid conditions, such as dirty or decayed teeth, ozfena, chi-onic follicular tonsillitis, catarrh of the mouth and tongue, ulceration or gangrene, malignant disease, caries of bone in the mouth or nose, idceration of the larynx or decomposition of retained bronchial secretion in dilated bronchial cavities, or gangrene of the Ivmg, may give rise to the most foul odours of decomposition in the breath. {d) Mici'oscopical examination of the expired air has in phthisis shown the presence of the tubercle bacillus (A. liansome), and if applied in other diseases might succeed in demonstrating other pathogenic bacteria, but this method has not so far been very extensively used. Many authorities consider that the tubercle Imcillus is never foinid in the Ijreath in ordinary respira- tions, V)ut only when associated with the act of coughing. (e) The same may be said for bacteriological examination, this mode of searching for microbes not having been systematically applied to the breath. (/) Chemical examination is the only scientific method which has hitherto yielded much result. The respiratory quotient is found to vary according to the state of metabolism of the body; in inanition it is diminished, while in certain wasting diseases it is increased. There is said to be an increase of CO, in asthma and bi'onchitis, while in cholera there is a decrease. In Bright's disease and urtemia the ammonia is greatly increased. Marsh-gas may be expired in such quantity as to make the breath inflam- mat)le, and several instances have been recorded where the patient has accidentally set fire to his l)reath, for instance, when trying to light his pipe. Such patients have generally suffered I from dilated stomachs, in which decomposition of I food was associated with the formation of this gas. In diabetics the bi'eath sometimes contains acetone. In poisoning from hydrocyanic acid this acid is present in the expired air. Treatment.—As evil-smelling breath is gener- ally a secondary symptom, its treatment depends for the most part upon the removal or cure of the primary condition, and it would be out of place here to do more than indicate the lines of treatment. Where the seat of the disease is in the mouth it is accessible, and carious teeth, etc., should be stopped or removed, a coated tongue scraped or disinfected, the pharynx sprayed with an antiseptic solution, etc. For ozeena the use twice a day of a nasal douche is often the only remedy. In acute diseases, where the mouth is foul with sordes, it should be cleaned with glycerine and rose water. The foetid odour from bronchiectatic