312 DERMATITIS TRAUMATICA ET VENENATA irritants is almost invariably symmetrical, that it often lasts long after the cause has been removed, and shows little or no tendency to- wards spontaneous recovery, and that it is especially liable to attack the sites of predilec- tion of idiopathic eczema. The treatment of this form of eruption is of course primarily to remove the soiirce of irri- tation. After this has been done it will be generally found necessary to apply some bland emollient preparation for some time until the more actively inflammatory symptoms have sub- sided and any fissures present have healed. One may then proceed cautiously with some weak form of stimulant of the class known as reducing agents, and perhaps one of the best will be found to be Pick's salicylic acid soap plaster, which should be spread rather thickly iipon old coarse linen, and kept continuously applied day and night. The general principles of treatment of chronic eczema apply equally well to this artificial dermatitis, and need not be gone into in detail. IV. The fourth class of eruptions, those that are more or less characteristic, contains only a few members. The first group consists of those caused by arsenic, antimony, potassium bichromate, and potassium cyanide. The first three of these drugs may all of them produce an acute eczema- toid dermatitis, though Richardson stated that potassium bichromate had no action on the sound skin. The feature common to them all, however, is that they are liable to produce very obstinate ulceration if they come into contact with even the slightest abrasion of the epidermis. The first three substances are all occasionally used, either in the preparation or the mordant- ing of aniline dyes, and potassium bichromate is also present in certain kinds of wood polishes. Potassium cyanide is used by photographers, but on account of its known poisonous action its effects upon the skin are less often seen owing to the care with which it is handled. As regards the diagnosis of these eruptions arsenic should be suspected if there is either digestive disturbance or inflammation round the eyes, while bichromate stains the nails and skin a characteristic yellow colour. There are no special characteristics which would enable one to diagnose the presence of the other two poisons. A very characteristic eruption is seen on the skins of tar workers, and probably the same is caused by allied substances, such as paraffins and soot, owing, in the case of the last-mentioned substance, to the traces of coal tar contained in it. The eruption appears on places where the skin is brought into contact with the offending substance, in the case of the tar worker hot anthracene oil, or more rarely creosote oil. It is greatly dependent on the habits of personal cleanliness of the individual, those who take care to thoroughly wash off all traces of the irritant on leaving work suffering very much less than those who are careless in this respect. The sites of predilection are the face, especially the hairy parts, the backs of the hands and arms, though occasionally sparse lesions are found on the palms and the scrotum. The earliest lesion appears to be the plugging of the follicles with inspissated tar products. The irritating action of this obstruction, prob- ably partly mechanical and partly chemical, causes a rapid overgrowth of the cells around the follicle, so that the mouth now contains a blackened horny plug. Below this suppuration may occur, or the plug may be detached by simple mechanical movements. In either case a small depressed scar is the result, so that the arms have a honeycombed appearance, especially when viewed in an oblique light. Besides these scars, however, there are always present numer- ous little horny plugs which have not become expressed. The hair is usually maintained sii;ice the destruction is too superficial to affect the bulb. Associated with this stage of the eruption is also a series of red and very slightly thickened spots, which are seen under a lens to consist of dilated blood-vessels, and are, in all probability, due to the repeated hypersemia from the splashes of the hot oils. At all events these hypersemic spots are not acutely inflammatory since they last for years. In some cases the follicular plugs, instead of being removed by suppuration or otherwise, grow to a considerable size and then agglomerate to form the so-called tar mollusca. It is plain that there must be considerable pro- liferation from the first of the cells at the mouth of the follicle, in order to produce that hyper- keratosis which is one of the earliest appearances. Later this proliferation apparently affects the deeper cells, and then these grow out sidewise beneath the surrounding epidermis so as to pro- duce a hard base and a pearly edge, thus com- pletely simulating rodent ulcer. The growth is, however, not yet malignant, though at any moment it may become so, and in most cases if left alone will slough out, leaving an ulcer which heals and produces a cribriform scar not unlike that left after vaccination. At the same time, in addition to the moUuscum form of tumour, there is another, the common flat wart, the evolution of which is not quite so clear. On examining the affected skin in early stages, how- ever, it can be seen that there is general hyper- keratosis of the parts between the follicles, though not to so marked an extent as of the follicles themselves, and it is probably from this interfollicular skin that the common wart is developed. These warts may also become the seat of malignant disease, taking on the charac- ters of true epithelioma. It may be remarked that, in the case of sweep's cancer of the scrotum recently seen by the writer, a careful search revealed the presence of very numerous small,