79 CEPHALHEMATOMA Brain, Surgery of {Cephalocele, Biagnosi.f) ; Head (Cephalhcematoma); New-born Infant {Cephnlhcematoma Neonatorum). Cephcllic.—Belonging or relating to the head, as in such expressions as cephalic index, cephalic lie (head presentation), cephalic teta- nus, cephalic version, etc. See Anthropology ; Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Presenta- tions of the Vertex) ; Labour, Operations {Version): Tetanus {Clinical Features, Cephalic Type). Cepha.line.—A substance derived from the brain, related to lecithine. Cepha.litiS. See Brain, Inflammation (^Encephiil itis). Cepha,IO-.—Cejjhalo-, occurring in many compound words, means relating to the iiead. It is used in many anatomical terms {e.g. cephalo- nasal, cephalo-lnuneral), and in such words as cephalocentesis (puncturing the head, as in hydrocephalus), cephalograph (an instrument for indicating cranial contours), cephalomelus (a teratological type in which a limb appears to spring from the head), and cephalopyosis (cerebral abscess), as well as in several names specially dealt with below. CephalOCele. — The swelling (skin- covered) formed by the protrusion of part of the cranial contents through a more or less rounded opening in the cranium, and it may be congenital or acquired. See Brain, Surgery of {Cephalocele); TeraT(_)logy. Cephalodynia.—Headache, usually of a rheumatic and muscular type. Cephalometer.—An instrument, usu- ally a pair of callipers, for taking the measure- ments of the head ; a modified apparatus has been invented for gaining an idea of the dia- meters of the foetal head before birth (foetal cephalometry) ; a craniometer. Cephalopag'US. — A double monster, or twins unite<l to each other in the region of the iiead. Cephalopine.—An extract of brain substance. Cephalothoracopagrus.—A double monster, or twins fused together in the regions of the head and thorax as far as the level of the umbilicus. CephalotOmy.—An obstetric operation (for diminishing the size of the child's head) proposed to be carried out by saw-forceps or wirc-i'craseur ; obsolete. See Labour, Operations {Emhri/otoiinj). Cephaiotripsy. — An obstetric opera- tion in which the foDtal head is crushed by a pair of strong forceps {the cejiJtnlotrihe) capable of being approximated by a screw at the handles. See Labour, Operations {Embryotomy); Labour, Prolonged {Contracted Pelvis, Treatment). Cera.—Wax. Two forms are employed (as a basis for ointments and plasters) in the British Pharmacopoeia, Cera. Flava (yellow Ijeeswax) and Cera Alba (white beeswax), the latter being obtained from the former by bleaching. Cera consists chiefly of cerotic acid (C^yH-^O^) and melissyl (or myricyl) palmitate or myricin, with a small quantity of ceroleiiie, and with paraffin and ceresine as impurities. CCfasin. — An insoluble gum from tiie cherry, peach, or plum tree; it resembles bassorin, and is (chemically) calcium metaguni- mate. Cerastes.—The "Horned Viper" of India. See Snake-1)Ite.s and Poisonous Fishes. Cerates.—The cerates {cerata) are oint- ments containing wax, and they are official in the U.S. Pharmacopeia. Goulard's cerate is now represented in a modified form (in the B. P.) by the Uiignentum Glycerini Plumbi Subacetatis. See Prescribing. CerCOmonaS. <SVf? Parasites (Protozoa, Flagellate). Cereals.—Edible grains, such as wheat, oats, barley, and rye. See Diet (Vegetable Foods) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion (Vegetable Food-Stuffs). Cerebellum. See Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of. Ste also Brain, Physiology ; Brain, Surgery {Abscess); Hydrocephalus ; Lung, Tuberculosis {Comj^lications, Nervous System); Mental Deficiency {Atro2)hic Con- ditions) ; Physiology, Nervous System {Cere- bellum) ; Tabes Dorsalis {Diagnosis); Vertigo. Cerebration.—"The assemblage of the cerebral actions consecutive on a perception" (Lewes). Unconscious cerebration or latent thought (Hamilton) is a cerebral or mental action occurring during sleep or during the time when the attention is otherwise occupied. Cerebrin.—A substance obtained from brain tissue (by boiling first with baryta solution and then with alcohol) said to have the formula of C,,H33N03. CerebritiS. See Brain, Atrophy, In- fl a M M at ions (En c< phir lit is). CerebrOSiS.—Inflammation or irritation of the brain ; mania. Cerebro-Spinal Fever. SVeMENiN cms, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinai^.