DIAPHRAGM 341 or spinal lesions, and in those which follow strong mental emotions, such as fear or anger. Poisoning of tlie nerve centres is probably the method of origin of that hiccough which shows itself in such diseases as typhoid fever, septic- aemia, and urajmia, and of the form which so frequently precedes the lethal exit. It is to be remembered that in most cases of hiccough a neurotic predisposition is present. As to treatment, it is clear that efforts should be made to remove the cause, if that can be recognised. But, apart from this, it will often be found that other forms of excitation of the nerve centres may bring the attack to an end. Sneezing may do so, for example, or coughing, or the exhibition of an emetic. Holding breath after inspiration, and making a strong expiratory effort while the glottis is kept closed, may be of benefit. The writer has seen steady pressure over the phrenics do good in an obstinate case of hiccough. (jlalvanisation of these nerves should also be tried, the positive pole being applied over the nape of the neck, and the negative over the phrenic. Hot fomentations applied round the lower thorax and over the epigastrium sometimes do good, or counter- irritation may be tried over these areas with benefit. In serious cases it may be needful to resort to morphia, to atropine, to chloroform, or to nitrites. Diaphragrm, Surgfical AfTec- tions of the. Anatomy .... . 341 Injuries .... . 341 Diaphragmatic Hernia . . 342 Inflammatory Affections . 343 Abscess .... . 343 Perforations . 343 Sub-jjhreiiic Abscess . 343 Surgical Anatomy.—The diaphragm is a large dome-shaped musculo-tendinous structure separ- ating the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Its muscular elements take origin below from the bodies of the upper three or four lumbar verte- bnc and their intervening discs, from the arched ligaments which extend thence to the transverse processes and tip of the last rib, from the carti- lages of the lower six ribs, and from the back of the sternum. They converge to be inserted into the strong central tendon, which is the highest portion of the diaphragm, lying about the level of the lower edge of the sternum, or of the seventh chondro-sternal articulation. The vault of the diaphragm reaches to the level of the fifth rib on the right side, and not quite so high on the left. Its nervous supply is derived from the phrenic and sympathetic nerves. On the thoracic side the pleura and peri- cardium overlie the diaphragm: while the peritoneum lines its abdominal aspect. The continuity of structure of the diaphragm is interrupted by three large openings for the transmission of the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the oesophagus, and by smaller foramina for the vena azygos minor, the splanchnic, and the sympathetic nerves. Any one of these openings may be unduly large and so predispose to hernia, that for the ojsophagus being the most im- portant in this connection. As bearing upon this point also, as well as on the question of perforation of the diaphragm by inffammatory products, Tillmanii has drawn attention to the fact that at certain points the muscular tissue is often deficient, so that the pleura and peri- toneum alone keep up the integrity of the arch. Although these gaps vary greatly in size, shape, and situation in different individuals, their presence is fairly constant, the most important being (1) that l)etween the spinal and costal origins of the muscle, in relation to which are the kidney, with its surrounding connective tissue, and the liver; (2) that between the costal and sternal fibres, over which the pleura lies on the right side, and the pericardium on the left; (3) sometimes the sternal fibres are entirely awanting, so that a wide sj^ace is left, over which lies the anterior mediastinum. In some cases the lower part of the diaphragm is exceedingly thin; more rarely one half or even the whole of the muscle is awanting. Injuries.—Although traumatic lesions of the diaphragm are by no means uncommon, they seldom occur apart from injuries of the viscera which lie in its immediate vicinity, and it is the signs of damage to the thoracic or abdominal organs which dominate both the pathological and the clinical picture in these cases. Open ivouiuls are usually the result of gun- shot injuries, punctures, or sabre cuts. As the linig does not extend down as far as the pleura, or the pleura as far as the diaphragm, it is possible for the diaphragm to be wounded alone, or along with the pleura, while the lung escapes. Subcutaneous rujyfm-e is commonest after falls or crushes, but may result from severe muscular eff"orts, such as those of vomiting or parturition. The jagged end of a fractured rib, or even an unskilfully manipulated a^sophageal bougie, has been known to perforate the diaphragm. As this muscle never is, and never can be, at rest, its wounds either fail to close, or heal with a thin, weak, and stretchable cicatrix, which readily favours the formation of a hernial pro- trusion. Clinical Features.—So far as the symptoms of injury to the diaphragm itself can be dissoci- ated from those of the concomitant visceral lesions, they would appear to be localised iiain, which is aggravated on deep respiration or coughing, and which leads to the patient re- straining the action of the muscle as far as possible. Bleeding may take place from open wounds either externally or into the thoracic or