258 CUBEB^ FRUCTUS have a warm, bitter taste, and an aromatic smell, contain a volatile oil (Oleiwi Cuhehoe, dose 5 to 20 m. suspended in mucilage), an oleo-resin, cubebin (C^gHj^Oj), cubebic acid (Cj^Hj^O-), and piperine; cubebs is given in doses of 30 to 60 gr., and the Tinctura Cuhebm in doses of -J- to 1 fl. dr.; the chief action of the drug is a stimu- lant one upon the mucous membrane of the genito-urinary tract, but it is also a diuretic, and in small doses acts as a stomachic ; it finds its greatest sphere of usefulness in gonorrhoea and cystitis, but it is also employed in bronchitis, pharyngitis, and asthma (as cigarettes). Lozenges of cubebs {Trochisci Cubebce) are official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia. Cubita.1.—Cubital, from L. cubitus, means relating to the forearm, or, more particularly, to the ulna; in the form of cubito- it enters into many compound words, such as cubito-carpal, cubito - radial, etc. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Cubital Glands). Cuca.. See Coca. Cucurbitae SeminaPraeparata. — Melon pumpkin seeds (from Cucurbeta maxima) or pepo, in doses of 3 to 4 oz., act as an anthelmintic in cases of tape-worm ; they are given bruised with milk, and are followed by castor oil; they are official in the Lidian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Phar- macopoeia 1898. Culex.—A gnat or mosquito. See Filari- ASis {Filaria Bancrofti); Malaria {History, Parasitology, The Mosquito). Culicicide.—Capable of killing gnats or mosquitoes. Cu It i vat ion. See Post-Mortem Methods {Bacteriological Iiwestigations, Cultivation) ; Skin, Parasites {Method of Cultivation). Culture.—A growth {e.g. of micro- organisms) due to cultivation, a /)t<re culture being a growth in which there is only one micro- organism. Cumin Fruit.—The seeds of Cuminumi cyminum, aromatic in character; from them is got cumic aldehyde or cuminol (Cj^Hj^O), and from it cumic acid (CjqHjoO.,) and cumin alcohol (CioH^^O). Cumulative Action. See Pharma- cology ; Toxicology. — When symptoms of poisoning are suddenly developed in an indi- vidual who has been for some time taking a drug without any evil effects, these symptoms are ascribed to what is called cumulative action ; thus, strychnine may be taken for a time in small doses without producing any unpleasant effects, and then, without warning, it may cause spasms; this action may be caused by rapid absorption due, for instance, to some transitory state of the bowel, or by diminished excretion of the drug {e.g. by the kidneys). Cuneate Lobe. See Brain, Physio- logy OF {Median Aspect of Cerebral Hemisphere, Cuneus); Physiology, Nervous System {Cere- brum, Localisation of Functions, Visual Centre). Cu neohysterectomy.—The removal of an elliptical (wedge-shaped, from cuneus, a wedge) piece of tissue out of the uterine wall (con- vex side) at the site of the angle of flexion, and the suturing together of the margins of the wound; the operation is performed by abdomi- nal section in cases of persistent and otherwise incurable cases of uterine flexion (retro- or ante-flexion) in order to cori'ect the flexion. Cupping'.—An operation in which cup- ping-glasses are applied to the skin in order to determine an excessive flow of blood to any part thereof {dry-cuuppiing); this is done by rarefying the air in the cup (by heat or by an air-pump),, and the effect may be increased by scarifying the skin {u'et-cupjnng) and so withdrawing some of the blood. Cupping of the Optic Disc.— There is a depression visible about the centre of the optic disc of the eye, and this is known as the " physiological cup"; but under con- tinuous pressure {e.g. in glaucoma) a "pi'essure excavation" or pathological degree of cupping- takes place, recognisable on ophthalmoscopic examination. See Glaucoma {Sym2)torn,s, Ex- cavation of the Optic Disc); Retina and Optic Nerve {Anatomy). Cuprum. See Copper. Curara.—Curara, known also as Ourari,. Wourara, Wourali, Urari, and Curare, is a South American arrow-poison; it is prepared from decoctions and extracts of various plants (an Arum, vai'ious species of Strychnos, etc.); its. powerfully poisonous effects are due to the alkaloid curarina (CjgHgr.N) which it contains;. it paralyses the peripheral ends of the motor nerves of the voluntary muscles, and has there- fore been used in cases of tetanus; it is not official, but there is an Injectio Curarae Hypo- dermica (dose, 1 to 6 m. subciitaneously). See- Alkaloids {Curarina); Electricity {Faradism^ Curarised Muscles). Curd Soap. — Sapo Animalis or Curd Soap is chiefly stearate of sodium, and is used as a basis, being contained in Extractum Colo- cynthidis Compositum, Pilula Scammonii Com- posita, and Linimentum Potassii lodidi cum Sapone. See Prescribing. Cure.—The word cure, although generally signifying a return to health or the means by which it is accomplished, has also the special