131 CHOREA develop, it becomes evident that there are some imderlying diseased conditions. In a typical, fully developed case of chorea the symptoms may be classified into various groups, viz.: (>i) irregular, involuntary movements ; (h) inco-ordination on attempted voluntary move- ments ; (c) weakness of the affected limbs; (d) a variable amount of psychical disturbance. The irregular, involuntary movements are quite characteristic. They are of a twisting, wriggling, tossing type, quite irregular in time, and constantly varying in character and degree. The patient cannot stand or sit still, but is in a state of continual motor restlessness—"fidget- ing." The movements are usually first noticed in the arm or face, the legs, as a rule, being less affected. The shoulder may be suddenly shrugged, the arm abducted or adducted, the elbow flexed or extended, the hand pronated or supinated, the fingers spread out, flexed, or extended, and these sudden irregular move- ments are often combined in a complex, confused fashion. Similar movements are also seen in the face. The brow may be suddenly wrinkled, or brief grimaces may be made, the mouth being drawn to one side, the lower lip everted, the mouth pursed up, the upper teeth exposed, or the eyes screwed up. The ocular muscles also pai'ticipate : the patient does not fix objects steadily, but looks restlessly hither and thither, and may now and then squint momentarily. The jaws may open and shut irregularly, the tongue may be rolled about in various directions, and not infrequently it is bitten by a sudden involuntary snap of the teeth. Sometimes the soft palate is seen to move irregularly up and down. The move- ments of the muscles in and around the mouth may produce peculiar sucking, smacking, or slobbering noises. The trunk is often rotated to one side or the other, and the head suddenly turned in various directions. Respiration is frequently jerky and irregular. The action of the diaphragm is often overshadowed by that of the intercostals and of the extra muscles of respiration. Sometimes the diaphragm and intei'costals contract alter- nately instead of synchronously. In a few cases the laryngeal muscles are affected, so that jerky laryngeal noises or gi-oans are produced. Choreic movements in the legs ai-e usually of a much less complicated type than in the ujjper extremities. The patient cannot stand placidly, sometimes one foot is moved, sometimes the other. Walking is only impaired in severe cases. The knees may suddenly give way during progression, or the movements of the legs may be so violent that the patient is unable even to stand. The choreic movements vary in degree in different cases, from the slightest restlessness of the fingers to the wildest and most violent, irregular movements of all the voluntary muscles of the body. The affected joints are impetuously flexed, extended, rotated, or circumducted, and in severe cases the limbs and trunk may be thrown about so violently that the patient may fall out of bed, or may bruise or cut the bony prominences of the head, trunk, or limbs by throwing them against surrounding objects. The movements usually commence in the hand, spreading later to the face, trunk, and leg. They generally affect one side of the body earlier and more severely than the other. Often they remain confined entirely to one side (hemi- chorea). In a few cases they migrate completely from one side to the other. As a rule, in right- handed patients the left side is more commonly affected than the right; but this is not invari- ably the case. Sometimes the movements affect both sides with equal intensity. Voluntary movements are more or less inter- fered with, when involuntary choreic move- ments are going on. The patient executes voluntary movements hastily and spasmodically as if attempting to seize an instant when choreic movements are absent. Sometimes, however, voluntary movements are almost steady, whilst involuntary movements are well marked, but more commonly choreic movements are increased by vohuitary movement. A good test for slight cases of chorea is to make the patient hold up both hands for a few seconds above his head with the fingers outstretched. This usually succeeds in bringing out a few irregtdai-, wrigg- ling movements of the fingers on the affected side. Or make the choreic patient squeeze one's hand, and the grasp is perceived to be sudden, spasmodic, and ill-sustained. If the grasps be compared on the two sides in a case of hemi- chorea, it will be found that the grasp on the choreic side, although more sudden, is yet actually weaker than on the imaffected side. Sometimes when picking up objects the patient makes a sudden dash for the article and often drops it after securing it. Sometimes, again, the patient has a difficulty in letting go an object when he wishes to do so. Thus in feeding himself he often drops his cup, and scatters his food about the table with his knife and fork. In the lower limits, in addition to the in- voluntary movements already described, the gait may be peculiarly altered. The knees may suddenly give way during walking, causing the patient to fall. When the tongue is protruded it is shot out suddenly and pulled in again with a jei'k. Articulation is often jerky and indistinct. Words are shot out, suddenly cut short, or interrupted by the irregular respiratoiy move- ments. In bad cases the speech may be quite unintelligible, or the patient may speak only in whispei's, or may even absolutely refuse to speak at all for days or weeks. In the latter instance there is a superadded psychical element present. Severe affection of the lips, tongue, and pharynx may cause inco-ordination of swallow-