175 COLIC musculature. The breathing is interfered with according to the degree of associated contraction of the respiratory muscles. Pathology.—The essence of colic is excessive contraction of the non-striated fibres that form the alimentary musculature, and it has, as its analogue, the tetanic contraction of striated muscle that gives rise to cramj). The alimentary canal possesses within itself, independently of the central nervous system, the nervous mechanism necessary for peristalsis which can be directly stimulated. But the bowel move- ments are also influenced and secured by stimuli acting through the motor or augmentor vagus, reflexly or from the cei'ebral centres. Hence the abnormal or excessive stimuli that lead to colic may be local, as they generally are, or they may be distant, acting reflexly or directly from the cerebral centres. The pain is not a neuralgia in the ordinary sense of the term, but is caused by pressure on nerves from severe muscular contraction. As the splanchnic nerves inhibit peristalsis they can have no causative influence on colic. The inclusion of visceral neuralgia under the term colic is vmdcsirable. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of colic would be comparatively easy were it not frequently asso- ciated with ailments which complicate and ob- scure its manifestations. It must be diagnosed from other diseases, from other colics, and colic occurring in one part of the alimentary canal must be differentiated from colic in another. 1. From other diseases— (<i) Inflammation.—In inflammation the chief distinguishing symptoms are that the pain is increased on pressure, that it is more or less constant, and that fever is present as shown by quickened pulse, hot skin, and raised temperature. (6) Neuralgia. — In neuralgia the pain is shooting or stabbing in character, tends to dart in various directions, to be increased rather than relieved by pressure, and to be associated with superficial hypertesthetic areas. There is a history sufficient to account for lowered health, and there are present other signs of the neurotic temperament. (c) Angina Pectoris.—Certain cases of angina pectoris are difficult to distinguish from ab- dominal colic, and have to be kept in view in making a diagnosis. 2. From other colics (Hepatic, Renal, Bladder, Uterine):— {d) In hepatic colic the pain is in the upper part of the abdomen, and is towards the right side and right shoulder. Excited gastric or intestinal peristalsis is absent. There may be the history of previous attacks. After an attack there is tenderness on pressure over the gall- bladder. There may be jaundice, and, if gall- stones be expelled, they are to be found in the stools. In renal colic the pain is in one or other flank ; it shoots down towards the bladder and into the penis and testicle ; it is associated with frequent desire to micturate, and possibly with the expul- sion of gravel or calculi. In strangury the pain is confined to the lower part of the abdomen, and is associated with urinary urgency. In colic in the unimpregnated uterus the pain is in the hypogastrium, and it occurs in relation to the menstrual period. The physiological colic of an impregnated uterus needs only to be referred to. In Fallojyian ttihe colic (one manifestation of Mittelschmerz) pain occurs in one or other ovarian region, in mid-menstrual period, there may be sudden, clear, leucorrhaial discharge, and fulness at painful side may be found on vaginal examination. 3. Colic in the alimentary canal may be more or less confined to a particular portion of its area. In gastric colic pain and distension occur in the upper central part of the abdomen. The percussion note is stated to be more prolonged and of a lower pitch than over the colon. The characteristic intestinal movements are absent. Eructation of gas attended by relief, also vomit- ing, more freely occur. In intestinal colic the symptoms j^reviously described are characteristic, colic in the lower bowel being specially attended by tenesmus. Appendicular colic.—In a typical case it occurs at somewhat regular intervals, say, from three weeks to three months. While at its height the pain is felt over the abdomen generally, it begins and ends in the right flank, tendei-ness to pressure being located in the region of the appendix. Vomiting occurs, and the patient may imagine he suffers from bilious attacks, all the more that they may recur for a period of years even. The attack lasts for a few hours, and is not in the first instance associated with feverishness. But sooner or later inflammation complicates the situation. The writer believes from clinical experience that appendicular colic is comparatively frequent, but that as many of the attacks are mild, they are unrecognised by patient and physician alike. Being mild, the operating surgeon sees nothing of them; in severer cases he deals with them only after inflammation has complicated and obscured the clinical picture. Etiology.—Colic, like cough, being a symptom rather than a disease, is caused by and is asso- ciated with numerous morbid conditions. It is the expression of a normal function acting in excess in response to undue stimulation, and having as its main object the overcoming of unusual difficulty or the expulsion of an irritant. In certain individuals the intestinal muscula- ture is more easily stimulated to excessive action than in others. There is a predisposition to