396 DIPHTHERIA syncope, frequent vomiting, and severe epigastric pain occurring during the course of paralysis are all grave symptoms. In non-fatal cases of paralysis recovery is always complete. Treatment By far the most satisfactory method is that known as the antitoxin treatment, which we owe chiefly to Behring and Kitasato. Hence we shall deal with it first. But before entering into details a few facts indicative of its value ■will not be out of place. The treatment was tried, in the first instance, in Germany in 1893 ; but not until after lioux's paper at the Hygienic Congress held at Buda- Pesth in September 1894 was it extensively practised in other countries. Since that date there has come from all parts of the world an almost unanimous agreement of opinion in its favour. The results of the first series of cases treated in the United Kingdom were brought before the Clinical Society of London in December 1894 by Dr. Washbourn, Mr. Card, and the writer. They showed that the mortality of the cases in the Eastern Hospital, Homerton, of the Metro- politan Asylums Board, was at once reduced to half what it had previously been, and reported most favourably upon the treatment, an opinion which was fully endorsed by a Special Committee of the Clinical Society. The treatment was subse- quently introduced into other hospitals, notably those of the Asylums Board. The following figures show with what results :— Case-Mortality of Diphtheria in the Hos- pitals OP the Metropolitan Asylums Board Year .... 1S92 1893 1894 1890 1896 1897 1S9S Mortality per cent 29-5 30-4 29-2 22-5 21-2 17-fi 15-5 Percentage of cases ■> treated with antitoxin/ 06-2 80-2 81-4 That these results are not accidental may be shown in more than one way. For instance, in London, up to the end of 1897 at any rate, antitoxin was used but little outside the Asylums Board Hospitals. Consequently there was very little lowering of the mortality of cases not admitted to those Hospitals. Again, there has been a very marked improvement in the laryn- geal cases, among which the number included merely upon bacteriological evidence is very small. The writer has elsewhere shown that whereas in the pre-antitoxin days there was small expectation of saving more than 29 per cent of the tracheotomies, with antitoxin recovery is to be looked for in no fewer than -53 per cent. A similar improvement has taken place with respect to the cases not operated upon. Clinically the beneficial results of antitoxin appear as follows : the exudation does not spread or re-form, that which is already present clears off more quickly than ill the cases not submitted to antitoxin, and the foul nasal discharge rapidly dries up. Consequently the patient is enabled to breathe and swallow with comfort, and his general con- dition improves. The cervical adenitis and cellulitis subside, and the temperature and pulse-rate fall. It is rare for the larynx to become invaded after antitoxin has been injected, so that extension of membrane to the lungs is very much less common than it used to be. Fatal broncho-pneumonia is also less frequent. Lastly, in cases treated early, on the first or second day, paralysis is much less likely to follow than in cases treated later or without antitoxin. Basis of the Antitoxic Treatment.—The anti- toxic treatment is based upon the following facts : It has been experimentally proved in a general way that the blood-serum of an animal immunised against a certain micro-organism and its toxin has the remarkable property of acting as an antidote to both the micro-organism and the toxin. There are several methods of producing artificial immunity. One of them consists in injecting into an animal at intervals of a few days gradually increasing doses of the toxin pro- duced by the growth in broth of the organism immunity to which is sought. After a time it will be found not only that the animal is able to bear without ill effects the injection both of the living organism itself and of its toxin in large and otherwise fatal doses, but also that its blood-serum has antidotal properties. If a sufficient quantity of the serum be mixed with a fatal dose of the toxin and the mixture be in- jected into a non-immunised susceptible animal, the latter will not suffer from any of the ill effects that would follow the injection of the toxin alone. The special application of these general principles has been rewarded with most success in the case of diphtheria. In order to produce the antidotal or antitoxic serum the horse is the animal selected, partly because its size allows a large yield of serum, and partly because it bears well the process of immunisa- tion. The serum having been obtained, the next step is to estimate its antitoxic value. Formerly this was ascertained by testing the serum with broth containing toxin, it being assumed that amounts of different broths that were equal in their toxicity were also equal in their power of combining with antitoxin to form a harmless compound. But Ehrlich has shown that this is not the case. He states tliat all freshly-prepared broths contain not only toxin, but also a body termed by him toxone, which, while it has the combining, is largely wanting in the toxic power of toxin. Further, when the broth is kept for some time, part of the toxin becomes changed into bodies which have pro- perties similar to those possessed by toxone, and which are termed toxoids. Hence it follows