DERMATITIS TRAUMATICA ET VENENATA 311 arc : — The handy and forearms, the face, especially round the eyes, the neck, the scrotum, and the inner side of the thighs. The reason for the localisation on the hands and face is obviously the greater frequency of exposure of these parts, while probal)ly the scrotum and thighs are often attacked from the extreme delicacy of the skin of these parts, so that any chance contact with hands covered with the irritant is almost sure to produce the eruption. The prognosis of the acute forms of dermatitis is almost invariably favourable, though cases have been known where death has ensued, proliably from absorption of the poison through the skin, denuded as it is of its protective horn}' layer. The treatment should be that for any ex- tremely acute inflammation of the skin. Steps should l)e taken to prevent any further ex- posure to the influence of the irritant. If the eruption is extensive and severe the patient should be kept in the recumbent posture, so that the circulation may be rendered as quiet as possible, and only a light diet should be allowed. No intei-nal treatment has any direct action on the course of the eruption, but it may l)e of advantage to give a dose of calomel at the commencement of the attack, as this will at least tend to expedite the excretion of any of the poison which may have been absorlted. Localbj, lotions are of most service in the early stages, such as diluted black-wash, lead, or calamine lotion. If itching is severe a very small percentage of carbolic acid may be added to the lotion. In the United States and Canada, where the disease is of much more common occurrence than in this country, owing to the greater prevalence of poisonous plants, the fluid extract of Grindelia Robusta, diluted one in thirty, is in great repute. After the cessa- tion of the discharge and the more active symptoms of inflammation, recourse may be generally had with advantage to bland pastes or ointments, but in no case must any stimu- lating application be used miless the eruption shows signs of becoming chronic. One of the best soothing and protective applications will be foimd to be a cream made up of equal parts of zinc oxide, almond oil, and lime water, Avith fifteen grains of anhydrous lanoline; to each oxmce of the mixture. This application is cleanly, and is also cooling from the evaporation of the water, while it contains just sufficient grease to soften the inflamed skin and render it supple, thus obviating the uncomfortable feeling of stiffness and the liability to Assure which are apt to be present owing to the insufticiency of the horny layer. III. Chronic Dermatitis.—This is caused by the prolonged action of substances either of less virulently irritating properties or in a greater state of dilution than those which cause the acute forms of dermatitis. The offending body may act simply mechanically, as in tiie case of fine powders, accounting for the rashes found in potters due to the fine clay, in mill- stone and quarry cutters from particles of stone, in glass-paper makers, pearl cutters, knife and needle grinders, etc. Or the sub- stance may be irritating both mechanicallij and chemically, as the finely-powdered sugar which irritates the arms of grocers; or, lastly, the irritant may act chemically only. In this last class the offending agents are almost innumer- able. In contradistinction from the acute form of dermatitis the chronic form is almost con- fined to people whose pursuits bring them into daily contact with the offending substance. The commonest cause of all is the constant im- mersion of the skin in water containing an alkali, such as is present in most soaps. Another very frequent cause is the washing up of utensils which contain decomposing alcohol and weak acids, such as are found in the dregs of beer and wine glasses, hence the disease in barmen and waiters ; also in cheap methylated spirit, such as is used in dissolving varnishes. Repeated contact with most metallic salts in the moist state will in time irritate the skin so as to produce a chronic dermatitis, and hence arises the disease known as galvaniser's eczema,, due generally to the ammonio-nickelic oxide in the bath. Almost all the aromatic oils and perfumes are capable of inducing a chronic dermatitis when constantly used, and are gener- ally found in face washes, powders, etc. Also many drugs are responsible for cases of skin disease in those who prepare them, instances l)eing quinine, aconite, podophyllin, rue, vanilla, and oil of bitter orange. Chronic dermatitis from any of these causes is usually of the dry lichenoid type. The skin is diffusely reddened and infiltrated : the epi- dermis is thickened generally, is of a harsh, dry character, and contains much less grease than normally. Consequently the normal folds of the skin are nuich deej^ened, and are apt to form troublesome fissures from the want of elasticity and proper cohesion of the diseased horny layer. The mouths of the follicles are often slightly gaping and hyperkeratotic, and the lanugo hairs ai'c stunted and broken. Vesicles are found here and there from time to time, and are usually situated rather deep down in the epidermis. Secondary pyogenic infection of the fissures is very common. The eruption is apt to spread bej'ond the points of actual contact with the irritant, and this fact has given rise to much discussion. Some observers hold that this spreading beyond the actual points of contact is proof that chemical irritants can call forth a true eczema, while others contend that the spreading is caused by the inoculation of the eczema virus upon the already damaged skin. Be this as it may, it is found that chronic dermatitis from external