CURE 259 meaning of a particular course of medical or surgical or hydropathic treatment; thus, there is the Banting Cure for Obesity ('/-v.), the Gold Cure for Alcoholism (a secret nietliod), the Grape Cure for Habitual Constipation, the Kneipp Water Cure (walking barefoot through meadows in the dewy morning), the Schott Cure (mus- cular movements and Naulieim baths) for Heart Disease, etc. Curettag^e, Uterine. Indications ...... 259 Technique ...... 260 Dangers and Conika-Indications . . 260 See also Abortion {Treatment, Incomplete Ahortion); Atmokausis ; Gynecology, Diagnosis IN ; Pelvis, PERiNEUiM and Pelvic Floor {Pro- lapsus Uteri, Treatment); Uterus, Inflamma- tions 0¥ {Chronic Endoinetritis); Vaporisation ; Zestokausis. It is fifty-six years since Recamier advised the scraping of the inside of the uterus with a sort of scoop with subacute edges in cases of metror- rhagia from " intra-uterine fungosities " ; but dis- couraging and even fatal results followed this first use of the curette, and it was not till 1865 that Marion Sims ventured to characterise the operation as a practice " now recognised as legiti- mate." Sims' curette was a sharp one, and so was the spoon curette of Simon introduced in 1872 ; but the blunt instrument invented hy Thomas, and popularised in tliis country by Munde, by its almost complete safety did a great deal to establish the curette in the favour of the jirofession. Its chief use was as a means of diagnosis. Since 1878 the sphere of usefulness of the uterine curette has been enormously widened; sharp and blunt and flushing instru- ments are employed, and the operation of curettage is looked upon as one requiring care and skill, and not simply as a trifling diagnostic metliod which could be safel}' carried out on the consulting-room couch. The Indications for curettage may be divided into therapeutic and diagnostic; and of these tiie former are nowadays regarded as the more important, and will be considered first. Therapeutic Uses.—(1) Hcpm.orrhaJie from the genital organs is one of the commonest and most fully established uses of the curette. The bleeding may be fnnn the cervix uteri, or even from the vaginal walls, as in cases of malignant disease of these parts, and then the curette acts only as a palliative ; in the great majority of cases, however, the hiicmon-hage is from the body of the uterus, and curettage is at any rate expected to be curative. Uterine corporeal luemorrhage may be due to retained products of conception, as after an incomplete abortion ; then the cavity may be cleared out with the index finger, which is, under the circumstances, the best curette ; but if the cervical canal has closed and the bleeding continues, notwith- standing the lapse of some days or weeks, then I dilatation and a thorough curetting of the in- terior will be needed, for decidual remains are often very firmly fixed, and need not be of much size in order to set up a great amount of hfcmorrhage. Again, the hamiorrhage nuiy be due to chi'onic non-septic hyperjjlastic endo- metritis, and in such cases the removal of the greatly thickened endometrium by the curette (blunt or sharp) with previous dilatation of the cervix will often give immediately satisfactory results, especially if the curettage be followed by a thorough cauterisation of the uterine in- terior. It cannot be said that hemorrhage from a uterus affected with fibroid tumours has been more than temporarily checked by curettage, for the mucous membrane under these circum- stances is not always liypertrophic (it may indeed be atrophic), ;ind the congestion may be seated in the muscular coat, which is of course beyond the reach of the scraping. In the case of sarcomata and carcinomata of the body of the uterus the curette is only a palliative means of treatment, but it has a value as a diagnostic, and, further, it may be used as a preliminary procedure before the performance of vaginal hysterectomy for these uterine tumours. (2) Septic and other infected states of the uterus, and even of the Fallopian tubes, have during recent years been treated hy curettage ; but all gynecologists are not agreed as to the value of this indication, and, of course, all infected states are not equally amenable to curettage. In acute septic endometritis, for instance, following abortion, or even laboiu- at the full term, the curette must be used only after consideration, and not as a routine plan of treatment; but even under these conditions it has its uses, especially if intra-uterine douching, iodoform packing, and the antistreptococcic serum fail to reduce the temperature. Great cai'e must be taken not to perforate the soft walls of the puerperal or post-abortum uterus. In chronic infected states in which the uterus is enlarged and displaced, menstruation disordered, and purulent and profuse leucorrhoja in exist- ence, the curette often gives the best results. Even in cases in which the appendages are in- fected it has been recommended that the uterus be curetted in order to drain pus-containing tubes through it. (3) Di/smenorrhoea and sterility form y<?t other indications for curettage, but it is often difiicult to separate these from the chronic infected states. At any rate it is probable that the straightening of the uterus and the dilatation of the cervical canal may be as efficacious as the curettage in the improvement which undoubtedly sometimes follows. {\) In the induction of abortion for dangerous conditions in pregnancy, such as in- coercible vomiting, the curette (preferably the blunt variety) may be employed, especially when