COLOUR VISION 191 cal forces in nature which emanate directly or indirectly from the sun are regarded by modern physicists as the expression or outcome of undu- lations or wave-like motions propagated in the hypothetical all-j^ervading medium—the ether. These undulations vary considerably in length and frequency, and in the associated physical effects which they produce upon animate and inanimate nature. Ascending the scale of ethereal disturbance from the long waves of comparatively slow oscil- lation to the shortest and most rapid undula- tions, modern physicists assume the existence (in sequence) of ethereal rays possessing electro- magnetic, thermic, photogenic, and actinic or chemical properties. The first and last groups of this series appear (in the present state of our knowledge) to be devoid of effect on the human organism, or, at least, we do not possess any specialised receptive sense-organ conferring on us a conscious knowledge of their existence. The highly specialised nerve-endings of the skin and retina, however, pi'ovide the appropriate receptive channels for those physical stimuli which, by some peculiar and unknown transfor- mation therein, endow us with the faculty for the conscious perception of heat and light. At present we are only concerned with the photo- genic ethereal rays, in so far as a consideration of them is essential to the comprehension of the physiology of normal colour vision. As above premised, the sun is the great source of natural light in our universe, and the whole of the photogenic rays thence emitted are col- lectively appreciated by us as the solar white light. This apparently simple light is, however, of a composite chai'acter, for by means of the specti'oscope it can be analysed into several com- ponent and further indivisible parts, constituting the defined colours of the spectrum with the multitudinous variety of hue or colour-tone resulting from their gradual transition into each other. In the light of the now universally accepted undulatory theory, this phenomenon of spectral colour-dispersion depends upon the constitution of the solar white light, which is composed of many groups of ethereal rays cor- responding to the individual colours, and vary- ing in their vibratory rate and wave-length, and accox'dingly in their refrangibility by refractive media. Colour, therefore, is the physical equi- valent of wave-length and frequency, and in accordance with these attributes, the related rays produce correspondingly different impres- sions upon the receptive retina, which the in- terpretative mind appreciates as variation in colour. It has been experimentally determined that the range of our appreciation for jjhotogenic waves begins when the ethereal vibrations number about four hundred billions per second, and the wave-length is about 750 jijx ^ (which is 1 The iiuit /i equals one-millionth ol' a millimetre. e([uivalent to the sensation of red), and con- tinues through the series of increasing vibra- tions (represented by orange, yellow, green, blue, and indigo) until the rate of oscillation has in- creased to about eight hundred billions per second, and the wave - length has inversely diminished to about 380 /x/x, when the sensation of violet is produced. Beyond this point their perception as light ceases, and they manifest their existence by the possession of actinic or chemical properties. Upon this compound character of the solar light the varied phenomena of colour depend. Colour is not (as was formerly supposed) an inherent quality of the objects around us, but is a purely subjective sensation produced in the special perceptive brain centres of animate creation. The infinite variety of colour seen in external objects depends upon the selective power which such objects possess of absorbing and quenching, in varying degrees, certain of the component spectral colours of the composite light which ilhuninates them, and reflecting the remainder to the perceptive sense organ. Associated with every colour sensation the existence of certain distinctive attributes, known as colour constants or elements, can always be distinguished. These are three in number: (1) hue, (2) ■parity or tint, and (3) brightness, himinosity, or shade. Hue is synonymous with ethereal wave- length, for upon this physical factor colour is solely dependent. Furity or tint depends upon the absence of white light; the less this admixture the purer the colour. Brightness, luminosity, or shade depends objectively upon the energy of vibrations of the ether particles; and subjectively upon the sensitiveness of our retina to this photogenic physical stimulus. By means of these varying characteristics or qualities any given colour can be scientifically defined in terms of the constant spectral colours. Physiological Considerations. — The delicate and complex nervous expansion—the retina—is destined for the amplification and support of the ultimate terminal elements of the optic nerve fibrils—the rods and cones. The pheno- mena of Purkinje's figures and the blind spot establish the fact that these are the essential visual cells, to which (through the inner layers of the retina) the photogenic ethereal waves nmst first penetrate before visual impulses can originate. Upon those nerve terminals the ethereal im- pulses of from four to eight hundred billions per second—the physical equivalent of their respec- tive colour-sensations — impinge. As to the subsequent modification and qualification they undergo in the remaining retinal layers we are utterly ignorant; but there can be no doubt, from the anatomy of the structure and the rela-