451 DYSLALIA Dysla.lia,.—Difficult or indistinct speech from defects in the speech-apparatus apart from the cerebral portions of the same. Dydofjia is difficulty of speech due to a cerebral lesion. Dyslexia.—Difficulty in reading ; word- blindness ; dysanagnosia. *S'ee Aphasia (IForc?- Blindneaa). Dysmenorrhoea.—Painful or difficult menstruation, the pain being sufficiently severe to prevent the patient following her usual avocation, and being felt either in the back (sacnUgia) or in one or other of the iliac regions, or in the hypogastrium and thighs. See Menstruation and its Disorders {Di/smenor- rhoea); Curettage (^Indications, Dysmenorrhea and Sterility) ; Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Hydropathy ; Mittei.schmerz ; Mammary (Ji.AND, Diseases of {Chronic Lohidar Mastitis); Uterus, Malformations, Displacements, In- flammations, AND Tumours ; etc. Dysmenor- rhoia may be congestive, endometritic, idiopathic, inflatnmatory, intermediate {Mittelschmerz), mechanical, membranous, nervous, newralfjic, obstructive, ovarian, rheumatic (or gouty), sjMsmodic, tubal, uterine, or vaginal. Dysmimia.—Difficulty or inefficiency in producing signs in lie\i of speech or in illustration of it. Dysmnesia.—Defective memory. Dysmorphia. — Deformity ; malforma- tion. See DuFDU.MrriES ; Teratology; etc. Dysmyotonia. — Muscular atony, as in dysmyotonia (or myotonia) congenita or Thomsen's disease. Dysnusia.—Weakness of mind or im- pairment of intellect. DySOdia. — Fcctor, especially foetid ex- halations from the body, e.g. from the skin in dysodia cutanea (hromidrosis). DySOdontiasiS.—Difficult dentition. DySOOtOCia. — ovarian dysmenorrhcea (Barnes) (.)r difficult ovulation. DySOrexia. — Diminished or depraved appetite. DySOSmia. — Impaired or diminished sense of smell, or (sometimes) a foetid exhalation. Dysostosis.—Defective development of a bone, e.g. tiie cleido-cranial dysostosis of i^Iarie and Sainton, in w'hich there is absence or imperfect formation of the clavicle with associated cranial deformities (])seudo-hydro- cephalus). Dyspareunia. — Painful sexual con- nection ; pain during coitus. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Vagina, Disorders {Vaginismus). Dyspepsia.—The morlnd state in wiiicli digestion is accompanied by pain or accomplished with difficulty ; numerous varieties have been described, such as acid dyspepsia, acute, alkaline, atonic, bilious, bulimic, catarrhal, congestive, climacteric, diabetic, duodenal, fermentative, flatulent, functional, gaseous, gastro-intestinal, gouty, hepatic, hysterical, idiopathic, inflam- matory, intestinal, irritative, lienteric, muscular, nervous, neuralgic, ovarian, pancreatic, reflex, renal, rheumatic, salivary, sympathetic, tabetic, tobacco, urfemic, and uterine dyspepsia. See also Indigestion ; Abdomen, Clinical Investi- gation OF {Symptoms); Alcohol {Indications in Diseases of Infancy and Childhood); Atrophy, Infantile {Symptoms); Breath {in Dyspepisia) ; Bronchi, Bronchitis {Etiology, Predisjiosing Causes) ; Cholera Nostras {Diagnosis, Fer- mentative Dyspepsia); Gastro-Intestinal Dis- orders of Infancy {Chronic Vomiting) ; Gall- Bladuer and Bile Ducts, Diseases of {Ad- hesions) ; Hydropathy {Dyspepsia); Hypnotism {Dyspepsia) ; Liver, Diseases of {Cirrhosis, Symptoms) ; Liver, Portal Thrombosis {Symp- toms) ; Milk {Therapeutic, Koumiss Cm-e) ; Nephritis {Renal Cirrhosis, Dysjxjysia) ; Spine, Surgical Affections of {S2nnal Caries, Dia- gnosis) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases OF {General Etiology, General Symptomatology, Special Symptomatology, etc.) ; Teeth {Dental Caries); Tetany {Causation, Gastro-Intestinal Affections) ; Toxicology {Lead - Poisoning, Syjnptoms); Ur/EMIA {Chronic, Symptoms, Digestive) ; Water {Hard Water, Dyspepsia). Dyspliagfia. See also Abdominal Aneurysm {Pressure Symptoms); Aorta, Thor- acic Aneurysm {Symptoms, Dysphagia); Bronchi, Bronchial Glands {Pressure-Effects) ; Glosso- pharyngeal Nerve {Clinical Features) ; Hysteria {Digestive Disorders, Dysphagia) ; Larynx {Laryngeal Phthisis); Larynx, Malig- nant Disease of {Syniptcnns); Mediastinum {Growths, Symjytoms) ; Oesophagus {Growths, Symptoms) ; Pharynx, Ketro - Pharyngeal Abscess {Symptoms) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Goitre, Symptoms).—Before referring to the various conditions that may induce dysphagia or difficulty of swallowing it is advisable to briefly consider the physiological processes governing the act. The act consists of three stages—the fir.st being entirely voluntary, the second partially so, and the third entirely beyond the control of the will. The first stage consists of the passage of the food as far back as the anterior arch of the fauces, this being accomplished by the intrinsic muscles of the tongue and muscles of the cheek and mouth. In the second stage the