467 EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF Diffused Injiammations, Eczeniatous, Traumatic, etc. .... 475 Caries and Necrosis .... 477 Stenosis {Malformation, etc.) . . 4:77 Ejnthelioma ..... 479 Anatomical and Physiological Observations. —Under the name external ear are included the auricle and external auditory meatus. In form, in dimensions, and in the degree of angle of attachment to the head, the auricle or pinna presents great varieties in different persons and races of men. In structure, the auricle consists mainly of a framework of yellow clastic fibro- cartilage, lined by perichondrium which is covered by skin. The lower part or lobule, however, contains no cartilage, and is composed cliiefly of skin, connective tissue, and fat. The skin lining the auricle is more loosely attached to the cartilage l)ehind than in front, where sebaceous glands are found in great numbers. Three muscles extend from the auricle to the side of the head—these are, no doubt, remnants of muscles originally intended to move the auricle, as a whole, forwards, upwards, and backwards. In few persons, however, are these muscles of more than very slight func- tional value. Traces of other six muscles, still less develo^aed structurally and functionally, may be found connecting different parts of the auricle with one another. Functions of the jiuricle. — The waves of sound falling on the concha are reflected forwards, and by the hollow formed by the tragus they are farther reflected into the meatus. It has been found experimentally that the artificial filling up of these hollows has appreciably weakened the liearing power in persons dull of hearing, who, on the other hand, often derive benefit by in- creasing witli the hand the reflecting surface. External Auditory 2Ieatus.—Extending from the auricle to the tympanic membrane is this somewhat winding passage, lined by a con- tinuation of the cutaneous covering of the auricle. The width of the canal and the degree of its curvature present great varieties in different persons. Its length extends to about an inch, but, owing to the oblique position of the tympanic membrane at its inner end, the antero-inferior wall is longer than the postero- superior. The walls of the outer third of the meatus are cartilaginous, or rather mem- brano - cartilaginous, and are continuous with the auricle. It is to be noted that at birth there is really no bony meatus. The osseous canal develops gradually outwards from the squamous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone above and behind ; while below and in front it develops from the annulus tympanicus, forming ultimately the tympanic plate. The tympanic membrane being almost horizontal at birth, the space between it and the floor of the meatus is then very narrow. The lining of the meatus is skin, which gradually becomes thinner as it extends over the osseous portion ; there it is firmly adherent to the periosteum, which really constitutes its deep layer. The lining of the cartilaginous meatus, especially at its inner part, contains the c/landulw ceru?ninosce, which seci'cte the cerumen or ear wax, and are really modified sudoriparous glands. Nervous Distr-ibution to the External Ear.— Sensory nerves are derived (1) from the cervical ^alexus, through the great aui'icular nerve, which supplies the greater part of the auricle ; (2) from the third division of the fifth cranial nerve, through the auriculo - temporal, which gives branches to the outer surface of the auricle and to the walls of the meatus ; (3) from the jugular ganglion of the pneumogastric the nerve of Arnold finds its way to the skin lining the posterior wall of the meatus. This nerve accounts for certain reflex phenomena, such as coughing, frequently observed when this part of the meatus is pressed upon with an instrument or foreign body. The muscles of the auricle are mainly supplied by the facial nerve through the posterior auricular and temporal branches. The otic ganglion is connected with the nerves which supply the various parts of the external and middle ear, controlling and regulating the reflex relations both to the various parts of the ear and to other regions of the body. From its connection also with the sympathetic, vaso- motor impulses originated elsewhere may be transmitted through this ganglion to the lining of the external ear as well as other parts of the ear. Lymphatics of the External Ear.—The lym- phatics from the auricle and meatus pass into the mastoid glands, the parotid glands, or the cervical under the meatus. Hence the glands in these situations are often found tender and swollen in connection with inflammatory affec- tions of the external ear. Diseases of the auricle and external auditory meatus, the parts of the organ of liearing having a cutaneous lining, come less frcipiently before the practitioner than diseases of the middle or mucous tract of the ear. Probably 20 per cent of the cases presenting themselves for treat- ment in connection with ear hospitals or cliniques are affections of the auricle and external meatus. It is to be remembered, however, that middle ear diseases, especially the purulent variety, frequently involve the external meatus in one way or another. This is partly due to the anatomical relationship of the middle ear to the external meatus, and also to the fact that in- flammatory products, formed in the middle ear, usually escape through the meatus, and in doing so may infect its lining membrane. It is, therefore, sometimes difficult to determine in a given case whether we have to deal with a primary affection of tlic meatus or one secondary to middle ear disease.