491 SUPPURATION AND SEQUEL.E EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC formation of young connective tissue, with con- sequent interstitial thickening of the tympanic mucous membrane. Accompanying these changes in the deeper layers of the mucosa, the epithelial covering becomes detached, leading either to areas of idceration, or to tlic production of ocdematous buds of succulent granulation tissue. As the ulcerative process extends, the under- lying bone becomes exposed, and ultimately either carious or necrotic. In certain cases small hyperostoses result. Almost every case of chronic suppurative catarrh is accompanied by perforation of the membrana tympani, through which the secretion from the middle ear escapes into the external auditory meatus. The irritation caused by this outflowing secretion leads to a piling up of epithelial cells upon the margins of the perforation, so that in genuinely chronic disease the edges present a pale, calknis, and indurated appearance. Through the open perforation the succulent mucosa is to be seen at times so lax and flabby as to protrude into the external auditory meatus. As a result of this chronic inflammatory pro- cess adhesions may take place either between the membrane itself and the mucosa covering the pars promontoria, or Ijetween the individiuxl ossicles binding them together, and so interfering seriously with the transmission of sound waves. Or again the inflanmiatory process may spread to the labyrinth, producing a transient hyper- semia, or in more severe cases an attack of purulent labyrinthitis, ending in complete de- struction of hearing (panotitis). In certain cases a general atrophy of the mucosa ensues, characterised by a thinning of the membrana tympani, and a disappearance of the normal elements of the mucous membrane. Accompanying these changes within the middle ear are changes of an almost similar natui-e in the mucosa lining the Eustachian tube, e.<j. swelling and oedema, enlargement of the mucous glands, shedding of the epithelial lining, etc. As a result considei'able stenosis of the tube may ensue. Symptojeatology. —- Subjective Symptoms. — Pain, which is usually such a prominent feature in acute attacks, is usually absent in chronic cases, or occurs only as the precursor of some serious complication, or as the result of tension due to obstructed outflow of secretion from blockage of the perforation by masses of granu- lation tissue, polypi, sequestra, stenosis of the meatus, etc. Acute pyogenic attacks grafted upon a chronic basis occur from such causes as exposure to cold, the entrance of water into the ear, etc., and are accompanied by pain of greater or less severity. In chronic cases, when didl, deep-seated pain is complained of in the head, a suspicion of the involvement of the meninges, the cerebral or cerebellar hemispheres, or of the great venous sinuses should be enter- tained. In chronic cases when extension to the mastoid process takes place pain becomes a prominent symptom. In debilitated and antemic su1)jects pain referable to the branches of the fifth nerve is frequently complained of, and calls for treatment upon general principles. Imjiairment of Jleartng.—The degree of im- pairment of hearing in chronic cases varies within wide limits. Thus it may be nearly normal in one case, and almost destroyed in another. The size of the perforation appears to bear little if any relation to the existing degree of deafness. Thus cases occur where with almost complete destruction of the membrane a large percentage of hearing power is retained, and others where the hearing power is almost gone, even when a minute perforation exists. In cases where the perforation is situated in Shrapnell's membrane, the hearing power may be practically unaffected. The presence of a perforated membrane contributes probably only to a small extent to the existing degree of deaf- ness. Other factors which play an almost more important role are :— (1) The presence of secretion in the middle ear, preventing transmission of sound waves, and hampering the action of the ossicula auditis. (2) Adhesions between the membrane and the adjacent walls of the middle ear, between the ossicula themselves, or between the foot- plate of the stapes and the margins of the fenestra oval is. (3) The presence of an unduly o'dematous or granidar nnicous membrane lining the eavum tympani. (4) Loss or partial destruction of one or more ossicles, leading to a want of continuity in the ossicular chain. (5) Secondary implication of the labj-rinth. Tinnitus.—Subjective noises are not frequent in chronic suppurative catarrh with perforation. When they do occur, they are usually due either to adhesion or to indrawing of the ossicular chain, to the pressure of pent-up secretion upon the fenestrte, or to an accom- panying affection of the labyrinth. Vertigo is also, not as a rule, complained of, and when present is due to the same causes as are responsible for the production of tinnitus. Disturbances of taste and smell, especially of the former, are frequent, and are due to injury to the chorda tympani nerve in its passage through the middle ear, and to the occasional passage of putrid secretion along the Eustachian tube into the pharynx. Objective Appearances.—The most important indication of chronic suppurative middle ear disease is the presence of a discharge. This discharge may be so abxnidant as to flow from the external auditory meatus, or may exist in such small (juantities as merely to form a film over the remains of the membrana tympani. Its consistence, likewise, varies from a thick