69 CATARACT This congestion increases slightly during the three or four days that the wound takes to con- solidate. Any further reaction is due to various causes. The most important is infection of any kind during operation or from local sources before healing has advanced. Other causes are the irritation of cortical remains and antiseptics introduced by instruments. A superficial con- junctival irritation often follows from too pro- longed tying up of the eye or from the too frequent use of antiseptic lotions. Of the Results of Infection the worst and most dreaded is primary suppuration of the cornea. This generally leads to complete destruction of the eye. Occasionally it stops short of this either as the result of the local vital reaction or of energetic and timely antiseptic measures. An infection of this kind usually shows itself within the first forty-eight hours after operation, often indeed within the fii'st twenty-four hours. The patient complains of pain, the lids are red and swollen, and on inspection of the eye a greyish infiltration is seen sti'etching towards the centre of the cornea from the wound. An attempt should be made to check this at once as soon as it shows itself. This may be done by applying the thermo-cautery along the wound or by the use of freshly prepared chlorine water or of pure liquid carbolic acid painted on the wound witli a fine camel's-hair brusli. The wound may then be dusted with finely powdered iodoform and all dressings removed from the eye. If the patient be old and feeble it is well also to use stinnilants freely. Most cases of primary suppuration occur from infection which has its origin in the conjunctiva or tear sac. The cases most likely to go wrong in this way are those complicated with blenor- rhoea of the tear sac, especially when this is associated with blepharitis. When there are no such evidences of local infection it is nearly always the case that micro-organisms have been introduced by the instruments. In pre-anti- septic times extraction failed from this cause in a very mucli larger proportion of cases than now. Yet even at the present time probably no surgeon is able to steer free of corneal infection altogether. No doubt, therefore, there are exceptional cases in which the vitality of the cornea is insutficient to withstand infections which under oi'dinary circumstances would be counteracted. With rigid antiseptic precautions, however, not more than one eye in two hundred should be lost in this way whei'e the surrounding- parts are healthy at the time of operation. Severe attacks of iritis and iridocyclitis are also set up by infection. Such cases seem to originate, so far as is known, in the remains of the lens tissue. Lens cortex has been shown experimentally to be the most favourable tissue in the eye for the growth of organisms. The result of iritis when the inflammation remains limited to the more anterior portions of the eye is to leave a more or less dense screen, consisting of iris, capsule, and fibrinous exudation, behind which the vitreous may be more or less infil- trated. The contraction of the iritic exudation often leads to a greater or less obliteration of the coloboma, when an iridectomy has been performed, so that the pupil is drawn up towards the external womid. Occasionally an infected iritis after cataract extraction may lead to sym- pathetic mischief {vide " Sympathetic Ophthal- mitis "). Lesser degrees of iritis are frequent. They do not cause any displacement of the pupil, though some synechite form. They are probably not of an infected nature, but caused mostly by the irritation of remaining cortex. Glaucoiiia may also occur as a complication of the healing process {vide " Secondary Glau- coma "). A serious accident which sometimes occurs, and which cannot be foreseen, is copious bleeding leading to detachment of the retina, which is then often protruded through the external wound. This may occur any time within the first twelve hours after operation. Most commonly it takes place almost immediately afterwards. The eye has then to be enucleated. Only when the pupil is perfectly free fi'om cortical remains is the sight on proper optical correction as good twenty-four hours after opera- tion as it eventually becomes. As a rule, owing to gradual absorption of the matter left in the eye, vision slowly improves, and only reaches its maximum after, it may be, a good many weeks. In by far the largest proportion of cases the best results, so far as the vision is concerned, are only to be got by a second operation, which consists of needling the capsule. This operation, though very safe when properly done, should be avoided whenever the vision is sufficiently good otherwise for all practical purposes. Not only is there some inmiediate risk attaching to it, some chance of either inflammation or glaucoma, but clinical evidence certainly appears to supj^ort the view that an eye in which the vitreous has been disturbed cannot be regarded as quite so safe as it would otherwise be. In all cases, therefore, the vitreous should be disturbed as little as possible. This is best attained by making the desired opening in the capsule with a single cutting needle or fine knife. The instrument should be entered through the coi'nco-scleral margin at a point which lies out- side of the cicatrix of the original extraction wound. Its point should then be passed through the capside at the opposite side of the pupil and the cutting edge directed backwards. Finally, the handle of the instnuuent is raised, causing the blade to sweep in the opposite direction and cut an opening in the capsule. This should be done in such a way, too, as to prevent the needle passing deeply into the