CLARK'S Clark's Process.—The method of re- moving the hardness of water by adding hydrated calcium oxide, which throws down the carbonate of lime, which gradually subsides and carries down suspended matters with it: 1 oz. per 100 gallons is added for every degree of temporary hardness, i.e. for each grain per gallon. Cla.Udica.tion. — Lameness, as in hip- joint disease as an early symptom ; also when due to spasm, as in anajinia and progressive arterio-sclerosis, when it has been named claudi- cation intermittente. [See Spasm.) Ciaustromania.—The insane impulse to take to " human burrows " or enclosed spaces. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Imjmlse and Obsession). Claustrophobia.—The fear of being in a closed space, as contrasted with agoraphobia (q.v.), the fear of open spaces. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Impulse and Obsession). Claviceps Purpurea. See Ergot; ToxicuL(J(:y (L'r</otisni). Clavicle. See Brachial Plexus, Surgi- cal Affections of (Tears aiid Contusions in Fracture of Clavicle); Fractures (Clavicle); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of (Disloca- tion ami Fracture of Clavicle); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries (Excision of Clavicle); Sterno-Clavicular Joi^T(l7ijuriesa7ulDiseases); Teratology (Absence of Clavicle). Clav US.—A corn or hardened projection of the epidermis due to friction or intermittent pressure. See Corns ; Tabes Dorsalis (Per- forating Ulcer of Foot). ClaVUS Hystericus. — The painful sensation as if a nail were being driven into the head; cloic hysterique. See Hysteria (Hyper- cesthesia, Cephalalgia). Claw Hand.— The deformity of the hand ("main en grifte") due to progressive muscular atrophy, and brought about by con- traction of the extensor and flexor muscles, and atrophy of the thumb muscles, the interossei, and the lumbricales. See Paralysis (Progres- sive j\[uscular Atropjhy). Cleft.—A fissure, groove, or narrow space between two projecting surfaces, e.g. cleft palate, facial or genal cleft, cleft of the nates, vulvar cleft, cleft sternum, etc. See Cheek, Fissure of ; Chest, Deformities of (Cleft Sternum); Embryology (Branchial Clefts); Palate (Cleft Palate); Palate (Congenital Malformations of the Mouth). Cleido-.—In compound words cleido- signi- fies relating to the clavicle, e.g. cleido-brachial. PROCESS 157 relating to the clavicle and the arm; cleido- cervical, relating to the clavicle and the neck ; cleido-hyoid, relating to the clavicle and the hyoid bone; and cleido-rnastoid, relating to the clavicle and to the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Cleidotomy.—Division of one or both clavicles; an accessory operation in cases of embryulcia, in order to diminish the bisacromial diameter of the fcetal trunk and so facilitate delivery of the shoulders. *SVe Labour; Opera- tions (Cleidotomy). Cleptomania. See Kleptomania; In- sanity, Nature and Symptoms (Impulse and Obsession). Clevedon.—See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (England). Clifton. See Balneology (Great Britain,. Thermal and, Snbthermal). Climacteric.—Relating to a climacter or critical period or year in human life (Gr. Kkifxa^, a ladder); used also as a noun, climac- teric signifies the critical period or year itself. The multiples of seven have been considered to be specially dangerous years, such as 7, 14, 21, 28, etc.; and sometimes the multiples of nine have been included. Tlie grand climacteric is the sixty-third year (9x7 = 63). The term is also used as synonymous with "change of life," or the period (usually from 45 to 60) when menstruation ceases (" menopause") and the female generative organs atrophy. See Men- struation and its Disorders (The Menopause) Climacteric Insanity ; Insanity', Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties); Menopause ; Uterus, Associated Insanity. Climacteric insanity. Neuroses of the Climacteric . .157 Insanity of the Climacteric . .159 Clinical Forms of Climacteric Insanity 160 Prognosis and Results. . . . 161 Treatment . . . . . .161 See also Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Etiological Varieties); Menopause ; Menstrua- tion and its Disorders (The Menopause); Uterus, Associated Insanity. The neuroses incident to the change of life have not been studied with that care and accuracy which the subject demands. Although it is an everyday experience in medical practice to be called upon to undertake the treatment of maladies, more or less severe and distressing, complicating the menopause, the literature of the subject is singularly scanty. Dr. Tilt (first in 1853) published a book on The Change of Life in Health and Disease, which ran through several editions, and still remains the only English work of reference. His observations