463 EAR, EXAMINATION OF aural polypi, recognised by their closer proximity to the speculum, their mobility, and the fact that the probe may be passed round them. In all cases of suspected perforation the precaution should be taken of smelling the speculum ; the presence of a foetid odoiu', so significant of chronic middle ear suppuration, and therefore of an existing perforation, is a valuable diagnostic aid. In these cases another speculum should be employed for the examination of the opposite ear, otherwise there is room for a possible fallacy in the second instance. 5. Examination of the Nose, Naso-Pharynx, Pharynx, and Fauces.—Owing to the intimate anatomical relation which exists between the middle ear and the naso-pharynx through the medium of the Eustachian tube, it is essential that a careful examination of the throat and nose should be made in all cases; indeed, this inspection should be a routine practice. It is necessary both on diagnostic and therapeutic grounds, and the aurist should make himself thoroughly acquainted with both the normal and pathological appearances of these parts, and become thoroughly efficient in the neces- sary technique. Such inspection is best made at this stage, before inflation of the tympanum is practised. Examination of the nose by anterior and posterior rhinoscopy will be de- scribed later (see "Nose"). In some cases it may be necessary to supplement the procedure by a digital exploration of the naso-phar3'nx, and in children this may prove the only way of arriv- ing at a satisfactory conclusion with regard to the condition of the post-nasal space. Inspection of the fauces may reveal the presence of enlarged tonsils; when these are found in children, especially when associated with large pale granules on the posterior pharyngeal wall, the probability of the coexist- ence of adenoid vegetations is suggested. A difficulty or sluggishness in the elevation of the soft palate on phonation favours the same con- clusion being drawn. It is only in very rare instances that the post-nasal growths them- selves can be observed by simple inspection of the pharynx. The presence of an excess of secretion upon the posterior pharyngeal wall may signify the existence of naso-pharyngeal catarrh. In the examination of the anterior nares special attention should be paid to the presence of spurs, ridges, or septal deviations or other obstructive agents which might interfere with the passage of the Eustachian catheter, should that be found necessary at a later stage. 6. Examination by Inflation through the Eustachian Tube. — The introduction of a current of air into the middle ear through the Eustachian tube is a most valuable and essential aid both in the diagnosis and treatment of many ear affections. It is on account of its thera- peutic value that due care should be taken to accurately note the patient's power of hearing befoi'e any method of inflation lie tried. We have already incidentally referred to it in test- ing the mobility of the tympanic membrane, but it finds a more extended application than that. In diagnosis, the permeability of the Eustachian tube, the presence of secretion at the Eustachian orifice or in the tympanum, and the existence of a perforation in the membrana tympani may all be determined l)y this means. In estimating prognosis, too, it is a reliable guide, and as a means of treatment it is of the greatest value. It is necessary, therefore, to be thoroughly conversant with the technique of the various procedures employed for this purpose. Three methods are in common use—(1) Val- salva's method ; (2) Politzer's method ; (3) in- flation through the Eustachian catheter. (1) Valsalva's Method.—By this means auto- inflation of the middle ear can be practised. The patient is directed to hold the nose tightly between the finger and thumb, to close the mouth and forcibly expire, at the same time puffing out the cheeks. If the Eustachian tubes are pervious, they provide the only outlet for the air which is thus forced through them and impinges upon the inner surface of the tympanic membrane. As already indicated, during this procedure the observer inspects the drumhead through the aural speculum. It must be borne in mind that syncope may be thus induced in persons with a weak heart, owing to a too forcible expiration with all the outlets closed. This method of inflation has a somewhat limited application. (2) Politzer's Method.—In order to inflate the tympanum by this method, a Politzer's bag and an auscultating tube are necessary. The bag may have an air capacity of six or eight ounces, or even more, and should be provided with a valve ; its nasal end should be fitted with a nose nozzle, or what is better, the extremity should be covered before its insertion with a small piece of rubber tubing. This has the double advantage of being soft, and further, of securing greater cleanliness, as a fresh piece may be used for each patient. For auto-inflation it is perhaps more convenient to have a vulcanite nozzle attached to the bag by a piece of rubber tubing- two or three inches in length. The examiner should make it a routine practice to auscultate during inflation, as in this way he may satisfy himself as to whether air enters the tympanic cavity, and as to the character of the sound produced. The patient's statement as to the first point is not reliable. Auscultation is carried out by the aid of a long rubber tube, each end of which is provided with a small ear- piece, one coloured black for insertion in the external auditory meatus of the patient, the other white for the surgeon's ear. It is neither necessary nor advisable that the patient should hold this tube in his ear; adventitious sounds