BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS 14 throats harbour many morbific microbes in a latent state, there awaiting a favonrable oppor- tunity for becoming active and virulent, and thus setting up the catarrhal attack which spreads down to the trachea and bronchi. No doubt many of the cases of tracheo-Vjron- chitis originate in this manner; yet, notwith- standing the bacteriological researches which have been just mentioned, I am convinced that in a larger proportion of the cases of bronchitis in which the middle-sized bronchi are mainly implicated from the outset, exposure to cold is itself the immediate cause of the disease. It may be brought about directly by cold air entering through the upper air-passages, as shown, for instance, by the experience of sus- ceptible persons on going from a heated atmo- sphere into cold night air, by the lial)ility to bronchitis in tracheotomised patients, or in habitual mouth-breathers owing to the inspired air not being duly warmed by passing through the nose. But in most cases it seems that the action of cold is indirect, and the result of vasomotor paralysis, as explained by Rosenthal ; for often enough the cause of the attack has been getting wet, or lying on damp grass, or sitting still after getting over-heated and per- spiring, and not by the action of cold air enter- ing through the mouth. Other deep - seated viscera having no air- containing tubes of communication to the siu-face of the body, such as the bladder and kidney, are similarly and specially subject to inflammatory attacks from exposure to wet and cold applied to other parts of the body ; and in applying hot fomentations or poultices to the chest, to the hypogastrium or lumbar regions in inflammations affecting respectively the lungs, bladder, or kidneys, we take advantage of these associated reflex vasomotor areas. We may further refer to the secondary bron- chitis which is liable to arise in the course of influenza, typhoid fever, measles, and other exanthemata. It is widely recognised that the V)rouchitis of influenza, which is certainly mi- croV)ial, is especially liable to be aggravated by the least exposure to cold, while the pulmonary complications of measles are particularly prone to be severe if the rooms are at all crowded or ill ventilated. It is a remarkable fact that influenza epidemics are just as prevalent at Davos and St. Moritz as in the less dry atmo- sphere of England and Scotland, and that, despite the ideal climate of the higher Alps for most bronchitic affections, cases of influenza at these Swiss resoi'ts are just as prone to be com- plicated with severe bronchitis and pneumonia. Thus a chill, while undoubtedly capable of directly causing acute bronchitis in those un- accustomed to exposure, or in those who seem to have a special liability to catarrhal affections of the respiratory tract, is often an indirect rather than a direct influence in causing the disease, and there are the other causes of bronchitis which can in no way be associated with either cold or micro - organisms, as the inhalation of irritant A^apours such as strong ammonia, chlorine gas, etc. Morbid Anatomy. — The morbid changes underlying bronchitis in its various forms are j primarily an exaggeration of the normal physio- logical processes taking place in a healthy lung, and we shall find that inflammation of the bronchial tubes is essentially similar to in- flammation in other mucous membranes, with certain modifications due to their peculiar ana- tomical structure and relations, so that the course of the disease, and the particular clinical j type it assumes in different cases, vary not only I with the actual cause or the acuteness of the attack, but depend in a large measure on the calibre of the bronchial tubes most concerned. It is not very often that we are afforded an opportunity of examining post-mortem the actual conditions presented l)y any but the directly fatal and therefore most severe forms of bron- chitis. Socoleft', who induced bronchitis in animals by the application of chemical irritants. and Hamilton, from post-mortem observations on patients dying with bronchitis, have in- vestigated the histological changes which occur in the bronchi in health and disease, and I am mainly indebted to the writings of the latter for the following desci'iption of the morbid anatomy of bronchitis. The initial change is hypertemia, followed by swelling of the mucous membrane and exces- sive secretion. The hypertemia, as Biermer demonstrated, may first affect either the super- ficial or deeper structures, or both. According to Hamilton, the earliest departure from the normal condition is a relaxation and dis- tension of the attendant plexus of blood-vessels