CORNEA 239 evidence of repeated niiscarria^es, or of ])rcma- ture births, or of great mortality among the cliildren in early life, may be easily obtained, as also the testimony as to infantile skin eruptions or snutHes. The signs by which hereditary sy])hilis may be recognised are by the shape of the cranium, the physiognomy, the teeth, and the choroid. The fi'ontal eminences are prominent and rounded; the central part of the face is de- pressed owing to the sunken bridge of the nose and to the flattening of the front of the superior maxillary bones. The mouth itself shows linear cicatrices radiating outwards especially from the angles, and frequently depressed cicatrices are seen in the skin of the neighbourhood. Shotty lymphatic glands may be felt in the neck, and the throat shows signs of old ulceration. An examination of the choroid of the other eye by the ophthalmoscope will often reveal the scars of old disseminated choroiditis. The appearance of the teeth is one of the most characteristic signs of inherited sy])liilis : in the milk teeth thei'o is nothing characteristic, but the incisors very often become carious. Tn the permanent teeth attention should be directed to the upper central incisors, although the others may also show signs. In the upper central incisors two main types are met with, those in which the cutting-edge is narrowed and has a central notch in it, and those in which the notch is not present, but the cutting-edge is much narrower and thinner than the crown of the tooth, the screw-driver type. The teeth are also midersizcd and separated from one another by spaces. Other manifestations of inherited syphilis are deafness from internal ear disease, periosteal nodes, or effusions into the knee-joints. Interstitial keratitis also occurs rarely in acquired syphilis ; its course is much the same as in the hereditary disease. Cases occur occasionally in which the most searching examination of the patient fails to reveal any of the signs of hereditary syphilis, and in which no evidence in favour of it can be obtained from the family history. Such patients are frecpiently in bad health and are rapidly losing flesh ; it is not possible to demonstrate the presence of tubercle in such cases, but the probability of it is great, especially where there are nodular growths springing from the angle of the anterior chamber, as sometimes occurs in such cases. Microscopically nodides very sug- gestive of tubercle have been foimd in the angle of the anterior chamber, and the tubercle bacillus has been identified in the cornea in one case by Zinunermann. The opportunities for examining by the micro- scope an eye in the acute stage of interstitial keratitis have been very rare. Such an examina- tion shows a cellular infiltration of the posterior half of the cornea increasing in density as the posterior elastic lamina is approached ; at this j)oint the cellular infiltration is so great that the cornea appears to consist entirely of round- celled exudation ; its proper structure is hidden. I Descemet's membrane is thrown into folds, and there are deposits of round cells upon the endo- ' thelium. Newlj^-formed blood-vessels are present in the deeper layers of the cornea. The anterior layers appear normal. The round-celled infiltra- tion also invades the ligamentiun pectinatum, the iris, and ciliary body. 7'reatment.—Much may be done to alleviate pain and distress in interstitial keratitis. Pro- tection from light should be secured by dark goggles, or a shade made to cover both eyes. Heat, by means of hot compresses or fomenta- tions, is occasionally very useful in i-educing the discomfort of the patient. Locally we sliould carefully avoid the use of any kind of irritant as long as the disease is advancing. Atropine, 4 gr. to the ounce of vaseline, should be used to prevent or limit the effects of iritis, and its use should be maintained until the height of the disease is well past. When the symptoms have begun to abate, irritant or stimulant remedies may be begun, the chief among which are the yellow oxide of mercury ointment, which should be begun cautiously in a strength of four grains to the ounce. Calomel may be flicked into the eye, or hot steam applied, or wine of opium dropped in. If there is any return of irritation their use must be discontinued. The cornea may be further stimulated to clear by massage combined with the use of the yellow ointment. This treatment may be continued for months or years. As a rule most cases do not require l)andaging, but if there is a probability of the cornea yielding to pressure it must be supported. In the constitutional treatment mercury should be used, the method by inunction being perhaps the most satisfactory for prolonged use, or mer- cury with chalk may be given, care being taken that the patient be not salivated. As the patients are often anasmic and much depressed, this treat- ment should be combined with syrup of the iodide of iron and cod-liver oil; at the same time general hygienic measures, warm clothing, good food, and fresh air should be secured. In any case the I'esults of treatment are not brilliant; the disease appears to run its course unchanged and to invade the second eye while the patient is still under treatment for the first. However, there is something to be done by constitutional treatment; from observation of cases at the Victoria Hospital for Children during a series of years, I found that the cases which were treated by mercury ran a shorter course and had less tendency to recur than those not so treated, and also that the complications, such as- extreme deafness, were more frequent in those not mider mercurial treatment. Localised IxrEnsTiTiAL Keratitis of Adults-