DEFORMITIES 282 forniities very rarely. Sometimes the deformity is angular, or sometimes scoliosis is present. In Friedreich's disease or congenital locomotor ataxy, scoliosis develops late in the disease, and is generally seen to be with the curve to the right in the dorsal region. In this disease talipes arcuatus is also met with, and is spoken of later. Progressive muscular atrophy gives rise to a peculiar form of talipes varus, due to peroneal paralysis. In syringo-myelia various distortions of the spine may be met with, and many forms of contractions of the limbs. Compression, paraphgia is a frequent complica- tion of spinal caries. It is rarely due to pres- sure on the spinal cord by bone, but more frequently it is caused by a tuberculous pachy- meningitis, the thickened membranes constrict- ing the cord. The paralysis is usually bilateral. In rare cases it is unilateral. It afl'ects the legs generally, although the arms may suffer later, or both may be paralysed simultaneously. It occurs in about 1 in 12 to 15 spinal cases. The symptoms of compression paraplegia are as fol- lows :—Its onset is in some cases sudden, but more often it is gradual. As to the motor functions, the patient complains of getting tired easily, and soon the legs begin to drag and the toes to catch in walking. Dull aching pain is common in the early stages in the body and limbs. In the body the most usual form is girdle pain or pain in the pit of the stomach. These pains are due to irritation of the nerve roots. Oftentimes there is no ansesthesia, or it occurs occasionally withoTit motor symptoms. The reflexes are exaggei'ated both superhcially and deeply. The sphincters are often involved, and incontinence of urine and fseces occurs in severe cases. The affected muscles waste, and the reaction of degeneration is more or less marked. The limbs are often cold, but some- times perspire persistently. The diagnosis is not as a rule difficult when the back is examined. Sometimes it happens that compression para- plegia sets in before deformity has appeared. The prognosis of these cases is that a great number of them show a strong tendency to complete recovery without operation. Mere recumbency with extension is often sufficient to induce an immediate change for the better. Recurrent attacks are dangerous, but not so per se. Cystitis and bronchitis are grave compli- cations. With regard to treatment, prolonged recumbency with extension of the spine in the horizontal position often effects a sxu-prising im- provement, and should be persevered with. But if, after eighteen months to two years of this treatment, the symptoms do not improve but rather get worse, then laminectomy should be resorted to. Too great results must not be expected from laminectomy, for the operation is as often a failure as it is a success. Forcible rectification of the deformity has relieved some troublesome cases of paralysis. Rickets—Deformities of The skull is often enlarged and thin, and with it there is associated hydrocephalus. The fon- tanelles remain open. The forehead is square and the upper wall of the orbit is oblique. There is also a peculiar development of the lower jaw; its alveolus is somewhat inverted, so that the teeth point inwards. With regard to the spine, the rickety deformities are kyphosis and, later, scoliosis. The chest, too, is the subject of deformity, pigeon-breast, exaggeration of the curves, and subluxation of the inner end of the clavicle. Rickety deformity of the arm is some- times seen in severe cases, and both bones of the forearm may be bent inward or outward, or one bone alone. The rickety pelvis is import- ant to obstetricians, and the conjugate diameter is decreased owing to the prominence of the sacro-vertebral angle. In consequence of the inward thrust of the head of the femur into tlie acetabulum on each side, the lateral aspect of the pelvis is flattened, and the pubic arch diminished. The rickety deformities of the long ])onesof the lower extremity are fully de- scribed in the sections dealing with deformities of the knee and foot. Tendon-Transplantation By this is meant the reinforcement of a para- lysed muscle by attaching to it the tendon of a healthy muscle. It is also known by other names, as muscle-grafting, function transference of tendon, but the word tendon-transplantation suificiently indicates the scope of the procedure. Before deciding to perform tendon-grafting there are certain points to be observed, namely:— 1. The muscles should be carefully tested elec- tricall}', and the relative strength of each of them determined ; 2, all conditions due to con- traction of the plantar fascia, such as pes cavus, should be previously removed by operation; 3, the operation is rarely called for when one muscle only is partially paralysed ; 4, cases in which all the muscles are paralysed are suitable for ai'throdesis only ; 5, in selecting a healthy muscle for reinforcing a paralysed muscle it is advisable that the one selected should belong to the same group, if possible, as the paralysed one, and the muscle selected should also be, as far as may be, in the same line as the paralysed muscle; 6, the reinforcing tendon should l)e carried as directly as possible to the paralysed miiscle and not bent round at an angle. Tendon-transplant- ation is particularly applicable to talipes cal- caneus, as the peronei muscles and the posterior tibial deep muscles, i.e. the tibialis posticus and the flexor longus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis, are very suitable for grafting into the tendo Achillis. Cases of simple equinus do not as a rule call for muscle-grafting, because division of the tendo Achillis is sufficient. Cases of paralytic valgus due to paralysis of the tibialis