EAR: ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE ]\I1DDLE EAR 485 Pathology.—In the early stage of the disease, and throughout the course of a mild case, the catarrh is confined to the superficial layer of the lining membrane of the middle ear. Congestive swelling takes place, and is soon followed by exudation of serum and mucus. In severe forms the inflammation and swelling become more intense, and the deeper periosteal layers are involved, while the exudation becomes purulent in character. The swelling is due to dilated vessels, along with the interstitial, serous, and cellular infiltration. As the case proceeds the epithelial layer tends to soften, and the surface presents a red, soft, granular appearance. Perforation of the membrane is likely to take place in a severe case, either from the direct pressure of the exudation, or from destruction of part of the membrane owing to the acuteness of the inflammation. In the milder attacks the inflammation would appear to be limited in its activity to the Eustachian tube and lower part of the tympanic cavity, but in severe cases the whole lining membrane, including tliat of the mastoid cells, is equally affected. "When thm is the case the swelling of the mucous membrane may easily block the normal channels of communication between the various parts of the middle ear, interfering with proper drainage, and thus leading to retention of pus, periostitis, and even necrosis in the mastoid and attic. Symptoms. — The prominent symptoms of acute otitis media are pahi, deafness, tinnitus, with a varying amount of constitutional dis- turbance, as shown by a rise of temperature, general malaise, nausea, giddiness, and head- ache, but these vary greatly according to the type and severity of the attack. Pain is usually the first symptom to attract attention. It commences as a feeling of dis- comfort or tension in the oar, which soon becomes actual pain. It is not as a rule con- timious, but will almost disaiipear for a few hours, shortly to reappear witli renewed in- tensity, and this most frequently at night. It may vary from a dull ache to the most intense agony, and to some extent the violence and character of the inflammation may be gauged by the severity of the pain. A numb feeling or actual pain may radiate over the whole side of the head, and it will generally be found that pressure on the tragus, or movement of the auricle, increases the discomfort. In children attacks of " earache " are often spoken of lightly as if they were one of the necessary ills of child- hood, but it should V)e recognised that these are almost invarial)ly due to a middle ear in- flammation, and that even in the mildest attack the hearing may suffer permanently. With the appearance of a discharge immediate relief generally comes, at any rate for a time. Deafness may be slight at the onset of the attack, and may not attract much notice for a day or two, more especially if one ear alone be affected. Somids may be correctly recognised, but as if they proceeded from a distance, and the patient often complains that ho liears liis own voice with almost painful distinctness and force. As the catarrh extends and the exuda- tion and swelling increase, the loss of hearing power becomes more marked, mitil it may be almost absolute for external sounds. The tuning-fork will be better heard in contact with the mastoid than when its vibrations are con- veyed through the air on the affected side. Occasionally when the inflammation is of a very severe type, as in some cases of scarlet or typhoid fever, an early extension to the laby- rinth takes place, causing aljsolute deafness, which is likely to prove more or less permanent. Noises of some kind are generally heard in the affected ear by the patient, but these seldom cause the annoyance and distress that tinnitus often does in chronic ear affections. The patient's attention is probably centi'ed on the other acute symptoms, and hence he pays less attention at this stage to the tinnitus. However, he often descrilies a thumping, beating, or pulsating sound, synchronous with tlie heart's action, as being present, while later on the sound becomes more steady and continuous, like the escape of steam or the rushing of water. Bubbling or crackling sounds are often noticed from the passage of a little air through the fluid exuda- tion in the tympanic cavity. Constitutional symptoms are sometimes ushered in ]:)y a chill or even by a rigor. In mild attacks the temperature does not rise apprecialjly, but when the attack is very acute the temperature will range from 100° to 104\ There is a general feeling of uneasiness, loss of appetite, and jDossibly nausea, with headache and dizziness. In people of a nervous tempera- ment, and specially in children, the general disturbance is often very great. The objective signs of otitis consist mainly in changes in the normal apiDearaiace of the membrane, whicli can only be detected when it is carefully examined with a speculum and reflected light. In the stage of acute catarrh the surface of the membrane is of a dull opaque colour and wanting in lustre. In severer forms its cutaneous layer exhibits marked injection of tlie small vessels, or its whole surface may assume a bright red or purplisli red colour. When serous exudation is poured out into the tympanum tlie membrane tends to bulge out- wards, and it may not be possiV^le to recognise tlie handle of the malleus. Sometimes when the exudation is copious the memVirane appears transparent and not reddened, and it is possible to distinguish through it the presence of a quantity of fluid, a dark line indicating the level to which the fluid has reached. When the exudation becomes purulent the bulging mem- brane varies in colour from a tinge of red to a