DECHLORINATION OR DECHLORIDATION 278 be slow, it may be aided by diui-etics, particu- larly theobromine. To gauge the amount of fluid (and chlorides) lost by the body careful daily weighing is essential, and replaces chloride estimations. Dechlorination has been successfully employed in dropsical affections of all kinds, such as cardiac and hepatic disease, oedema of the legs from exertion, phlegmasia, etc. The rationale of its action is the same in all such cases. It has also been employed in epilepsy, biit on quite other grounds, the hypothesis being that by rendering the tissues poor in chlorides the bromide introduced is enabled to act more effectively. Decid ua,. SeeAmmio^ (Causes, Maternal, Decidual Disease); Caduca; Ectopic Gestation; FcETUS AND Ovum, Development of (Decidua); Mole, Molar Pregnancy [Mola Carnosa) ; Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua (Affections of the Decidua); Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Cord (Diseases of the Mernbranes, Decidual Endometritis). Deciduoma Malig^num. See Abortion (Incomplete); Choriojia ; Chorion- Epithelioma ; Fallopian Tubes (Tumours, Deciduoma); Labour, Post - Partum Haemor- rhage (Secondary); Puerperium, Pathology {Sarcoma - Deciduo - Cellulare or Deciduoma Malignum); Syncytioma ; Tumours (Epithelial Group). Declaration, Dying'. See Medicine, Forensic (Dying Declarations).' Declination. —Deviation, also the re- mission of a disease or of the paroxysm of a disease. Decline of the Birth-Rate.— A phenomenon of the close of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth centuries, affecting all civilised countries, due doubtless to several causes, but especially to the postpone- ment of marriage till late in life (opsigamy) and to the use of checks to prevent conception and pregnancy. In Edinburgh in 1871 the birth-rate was 34-89 per 1000, in 1881 it was 32-23, in 1891 it was 28-25, in 1901 it was 24-99, and in 1905 it was 22-99. DeCOCta.—Solutions of vegetable drugs made by boiling in distilled water for 5 to 10 minutes, and then straining; there are three official decocta (Decoctum Aloes Compositwm, Decoctum Granati Corticis, and Decoctum Hwmatoxyli), and the dose of each is J to 2 fl. oz. Decollator. See Labouk, Operations (Embryotomy, Decapjitation). — An instrument shaped like a hook (sharp or serrated) or like a key, used for decapitating the foetus in impacted shoulder cases in labour; a decapitator (e.g. Braun's). Decomposition. See Medicine, For- ensic (Signs of Death, Putrefaction). Decubitus.—The attitude adopted by a patient, particularly in bed; posture in bed; also means a bedsore (as in myelitis). Decussation.—A crossing of structures (especially of nerve fibres) in the form of a X, e.g. the decussation of the pyramids of the medulla oblongata, of the fillet, or of the pons; chiasm. DefaBCation. See Constipation (Physio- logical Considerations); Digestion and Meta- bolism (Defw.cation); Physiology, Food and DIgest I oN (DefoEca tion). DefectiO Animi.—Mental deficiency; deliquium animi. Defectus.—Defect or absence of develop- ment of any jjart, e.g. defectus vaginje or atresia vaginae. Defervescence.—The stage of decline of a fever, which is either short ("by crisis") or protracted (" by lysis ") ; the temperature and pulse-rate fall, the skin acts freely, and there may be a profuse diuresis or a diarrhoea. Defibrination.—The process by which the fibrin is removed from the blood. Defloration.—The tearing of the hymen and consequent destruction of the signs of virginity in a woman. See Forensic Medicine (liape). Deformities. Arthrodesis ..... . 279 Congenital Dislocations . 279 Cerebral and Spinal Paralysis . . 281 Rickets ...... . 282 Tendon-Transplantation . 282 Hand and Fingers . 283 Congenital Deformities . 283 Acquired Deformities . . 284 Lower Extremity— Toes— Hallux Valgus, Varus, Rigidus . 285 Hammer Toe .... . 285 Other Deformities . 286 Foot ...... . 286 Club-Foot—Congenital . . 286 Acquired . 289 Fiat-Foot .... . 290 Metatarsalgia .... . 292 Leg and Thigh— Bow-Legs ..... . 293 Genu Valgum, Varum, and Recurvatum . 294 Coxa Vara. . . . 295 See also Bone, Diseases of (Os komyelitis.