DYSENTERY 441 appears to have no influence on dysentery pre- valence. The same cannot be said of the physi- cal characters of the soil. Wc have already noticed its incidence as an endemic disease in the lake districts of Sweden. The marshy pro- vinces of Holland recently furnished a dysenteiy death-rate double that of the country generally. According to Kelsch and Kiener, dysentery in France shows a predilection for marshy and moist soils. "It is thus," they say, "that the reports of the Academy continually notice its occurrence in various departments of Brittany, in the fluvial districts of the lower Loire and its affluents, in the basin of the Somme, on the plateaux of the Doubs and the Vosges. The southern part of Finistere, I'llle-et-Vilaine, some districts of the Cotes clu Nord, and above all Morbihan, have acquired in this respect a sad notoriety." To the same order of facts belong the numerous instances of outbreaks of dysentery caused by the diyiug up of lakes and ponds, and of deposits resulting from inundations, and cleaning out of canals and reservoirs, and the exposure of the mud to the action of the sun. The same conditions doubtless favour outbreaks of dysentery in the tropics. What are the infective agents giving rise to the disease in these instances, and in what way does infection take place ? These questions do not, as yet, admit of answer. Relation to Malaria.—Dysentery and malaria are perfectly distinct diseases; the former may be very severe in regions where malaria is unknown, yet in the tropics they are often endemic in the same localities. Faecal Pollution of Soil and Watet:—These are undoubtedly among the most important factors in the etiology of dysentery. Every epidemy of dysentery is a proof of the infectiousness of dysenteric evacuations, and the disease in most of these cases seems to be spread directly or indirectly by soil and water pollution. Creighton relates an instance illustrating the way in which epidemic dysentery becomes diffused. The brig Sandwith with Irish emigrants suffering from famine dysentery put in at Penzance on the 7th of June 1848. Three of the women passengers died on shore of the disease. On the 16th of July the disease appeared for the first time among the natives of the town. No fewer than 500 cases and 82 deaths occurred in the town. New foci were also set ujj in the country dis- tricts by domestics, who, having contracted the disease in Penzance, had returned to their homes in the country for treatment. But dysentery often arises in connection with faecal pollution of soil and water when there is no evidence of specific contamination. It is enough for an army to encamjj long enough on a spot for the soil to become polluted in order to ensure an outbreak of dysentery. The epidemy of dysen- tery in the Cumberland and Westmoreland Asylum recorded by Clouston was ascribed to the emanations from sewage applied to fields situated at a distance of 300 yards from the ward where the disease broke out. Dysentery prevailed in the Wakefield Asylum in 1827-28. The whole sewage of the Asylum, we are told, was collected in cesspools within a few feet of the wards. In these cases the air appears to have been the vehicle of infection. FjEcally polluted water was the cause of the numerous fatal outbreaks of diarrhoea and dysentery in the Millbank Penitentiary during the first half of this century. The water-supply was derived from the Thames as it ebbed and flowed beneath its walls. No more outbreaks occurred after a pure supply was provided. In the same way dysentery frequently occurred among the troops at Cork when their water- supply was derived from the sewage-polluted water of the Lee, and disappeared when another supply was obtained. Examples of this kind, which might be multij^lied to any extent, place it beyond doubt that fajcally polluted water is capable of giving rise to dysentery. There is a good deal of evidence to show that water con- taining decomposing oi-ganic matter, purgative salts, and other irritating constituents, favour the outbreak of dysentery. More conclusive evidence of the part played by impure water in the causation of dysentery could not be wished than that supplied by Coppinger relating to the Royal Navy. Dysentery, he says, has dimin- ished in frequency as sanitation in respect to food and water has improved. " The proportion of cases occurring in the years 1860, 1870, and 1880 respectively, were 12-7, 3-5, and 1-2 per 1000 of all the men employed; and when we remember that the use of distilled water on board ship was coming into general use about the year 1870, the above figures are strongly suggestive of an intimate causative relation between polluted water and dysentery." Many a death from dysentery in tropical countries would be pi'evented if travellers and others would adopt the precaution of using only boiled water. Tainted food, indigestible substances, um-ipe and over-ripe fruit, excesses of all kinds, especi- ally in alcohol, predispose to dysentery. Dysentery of War and Famine.—Severe and long-continued famine is uniformly followed by dysentery, whether in warm or cold climates, b\it in some regions more severely than in others. Dysentery became epidemic in the kingdom of Naples during the famine of 1763. Dysentery and diarrhoea were the most fatal diseases engendered by the Irish famine of 1847-49. From Ireland the infection was carried by emigrants to the United States, where it raged from 1847 to 1856. In the recent famine in Russia dysentery was widely prevalent. Dys- entery along with diarrha-a never fails to claim the largest" tribute of mortality in India in famine years. In 1897, a year of extraordinary