342 DIAPHRAGM, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE abdominal cavities. Shock may be so severe as to end fatally. Risus sardonicus, which is supposed to be peculiarly related to morbid conditions affecting the diaphragm, may be present. As a matter of fact, however, the diagnosis of an uncomplicated injury to the diaphragm is exceedingly diiScult, and in the case of sub- cutaneous rupture all but impossible. The treatment can only be discussed along with that of the associated lesions of the lung, pleura, pericardium, stomach, etc. (q-v.). One of the great risks attending such injuries is the strangulation of any portion of the alimentary canal which may become herniated, either at the time of the accident or long afterwards. So real is this danger that Stephen Paget advo- cates a systematic attempt being made to close such ruptures by introducing siitures from the thoracic side of the rent. The mortality of wounds of the diaphragm is exceedingly high (29 out of 33 cases ending fatally according to Frey), peritonitis, empya;ma, shock, or hasmor- rhage being the commonest cause of death. Diaphragmatic Hernia. — Any protrusion through the diaphragm is spoken of as a diaphragmatic hernia, although in the vast majoi-ity of cases—about 88 per cent—there is no hernial sac, and the condition is rather one of prolapse than of true hernia. Morbid Anatomy.—The protrusion may take place (1) through one or other of the natural openings in the diaphragm, particularly that for the oesophagus ; (2) through one of the con- genital deficiencies in the muscle, described by Tillmann; (3) through a rupture produced by indirect violence or muscular eftbrt; or (4) through a direct wound of the muscle. Lacher, to whose researches we owe much of our knowledge of this subject, found that in 276 cases collected by him, only 28 presented a sac, and of these 25 were congenital; and in Bohn's collection of 80 congenital cases only 14 had a sac. In round numbers, therefore, about 20 per cent of congenital cases have a sac, and are therefore true hernice, while only about 2 per cent of traumatic cases can be so described. That the great proportion of diaphragmatic protrusions, whether with or without a sac, should be situated on the left side is natural, when we consider the substantial support given to the opposite side by the liver, the fact that all the large anatomical openings as well as the congenital deficiencies are towards the left side, and that most suicidal and homicidal wounds are aimed at the heart. Of 150 traumatic cases, 127 were left-sided, and of 117 of congenital origin, 98 were on that side. The greater liability of men to accidental and other forms of injury may explain the fact that diaphragmatic hernia is five times commoner in the male sex than in females. The opening is usually far Itack through the tendinous part of the diaphragm, but may be met with elsewhere, particularly through the opening for the oesophagus. It varies in size and shape from a mere slit or rounded aperture to a complete absence of one half of the muscle. As a rule, portions of more than one viscus are prolapsed. The relative order of frequency may be gathered from the following :—Stomach, 151 times; colon, 145 times; small intestine, 83 times; liver, 45 times; duodenum, 35 times; pancreas, 27 times; ctecum, 20 times; kidney, 2 times. It is interesting to observe, from the jioint of view of operation, that adhesions between the different prolapsed viscera or to the diaphragm seldom occur. Clinical Features.—Cliildren born witli a con- genital diaphragmatic hernia seldom live long enough to manifest symptoms which lead to a diagnosis. If not still-born, they usually sur- vive but a few hours or days, and the abnor- mality is only discovered on post-mortem examination. On the other hand, it is not uncommon for a large diaphragmatic hernia to be found at the autopsy on a person who has never manifested any of the ordinary clinical features of such a condition. In all cases, moreover, the dia- gnosis is one of extreme difficulty, and appears to have been made with accuracy only in some seven out of nearly three hundred cases. The prominent features in well-marked cases of some standing are (1) an imnatural depres- sion in the upper part of the abdomen, with a corresponding fulness in the lower thoracic region. (2) Well-marked signs of air in the pleural cavity, simulating those of j^neumo- thorax, are present, varying in extent and degree with the amount of the alimentary tract which has been displaced, and the particular viscera involved. Leichtenstern has suggested tliat the amount of stomach in the hernia may be estimated by filling it with water or air from the mouth, or the colon from the rectum. Distinct intestinal gurgling may sometimes be heard on auscultation of the chest. (3) The heart may be displaced and its action interfered with, causing palpitation, attacks of dyspnoea, and a feeling of oppression in the chest, with inability to lie on the affected side and cough. These phenomena also vary in intensity with the size and nature of the herniated viscera. (4) Vague and atypical symptoms of dyspepsia are prominent features of all these cases. Pain in the epigastrium, heartburn, nausea, vomiting, thirst, or constipation alternating with diarrhoea are commonly complained of. Sometimes these symptoms are worst after exertion; occasionally a full meal gives temporary relief; and in some instances the patient is conscious that the food lodges in the region of the chest, where it produces a fixed pain.