416 DIURETICS The nitrites in large doses are also serviceable remedies, their exact mode of action being un- known. As previously mentioned, the diuretic action of plain water either alone or follow- ing the use of diuretic drugs cannot be too strongly emphasised. , As a general rule it should be taken on an empty stomach at set times, three or four times daily, in quantities varying from one-half to one pint or more. Diuretin.—A proprietary diuretic medi- cine ; salicylate of theobromine and sodium ; it is iised in dropsy due to heart and kidney troubles; the dose is 5 to 15 grains. Diva.g'a.tion. — Rambling speech or tliought, especially of the insane. Di va.lent.—Divahntovhivalent, as applied, for example, to an acid, means " capable of re- placing two atoms of hydrogen in a compound." Diverg'ence. See Ocular Muscles, Apfectioxs of {Paralysis). Diver's Pa.ra.lysiS. See Spine, Surgi- cal Affectioxs of (Caisson Disease). Diverticulitis.—Inflammation of Mec- kel's diverticulum. DivertiCUSuin.—A side-branch of a canal or cavitj', especially one ending blindly ; a cul-de-sac. Some diverticula have special names, e.g. Meckel's di^'erticulum (a cid-de-sac arising from the lower part of the ileum), Nude's diverticulum (canal of Nuck), duodenal diver- ticulum (ampulla of Vater), etc. See Intes- tines, Surgical Affections of {Intestinal Ob- struction hy Meckel's diverticulum); (Esophagus (^Esophageal Pouches); Post-Mortem Methods {Body-Cavities, Abdomen, Diverticula). DiVUlsion.—Rapid, forcible dilatation of a canal or hollow organ, such as the urethra or the cervix uteri. Dizziness. See Vertigo. Dobie'S Line.—The dim line in the middle of the clear band of a muscular fibril. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Structure of). Dochmius Duodenalis. See Para SITES {Nematodes, Uncinaria Duodenalis, AnJcijlo- stoma Duodenale). DOCinnslSia,.—An examination or test (Gr. f>oKLji.6.(oy, I prove), more especially' of live- birth ; the investigation of the heart and lungs, great vessels, and stomach, etc., in order to determine whether an infant has breathed after birth. See Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide, Hydrostatic Test). Dog's. See Anthrax {Lower Animals, Dogs and Cats); Distemper; Rickets {Morbid Anatomy, Puppies). DolichOCephaiy. — The long - shaped skull; that in which the antero-posterior dia- meter is relatively long as compared with the transverse; with a cephalic index of less than 75. See Anthropology. DolichocnemiC.—Long-legged (from Gr. SoAt)(os, long, and Kinjixij, the part of the leg between the knee and the ankle); having the leg nearly as long as the thigh. DolichohieriC.—Having the sacrum long in compjirison to its breadth (from Gr. SoXtx"?, long, and lepos, the sacred bone). DolichopelliC. — Having the antero- posterior (or conjugate) diameter of the pelvic brim as long as or longer than the transverse. Dolor.—-Pain or suffering. Various quali- fying adjectives may be added, such as dolor mitis, slight pain ; dolor atrox, agonising pain ; dolor capitis, headache; dolor dentium, toothache; dolor colicus, colicky pain, etc. In the plural dolores signifies pains, and especially the pains of labour {dolores ad p)artu7n), which may be slight at first {dolores 2}roejmrantes, dolores prcesagientes) and very severe in the later stage {dolores conquassantes), and slight again after labour is over {dolores imerperariLm or after-pains). See Labour, Stages and Duration. Domestic Measures.—Since domes tic measures vary so greatly in capacity, medicines ought to be dispensed as far as possible in bottles with graduated markings on the glass and the direction " one-sixth or one- twelfth three times a day," etc.; but as a general rule the teaspoon holds about one fluid drachm, the dessert-spoon about two fluid drachms, the tablespoon about half a fluid ounce, the wine-glass about two fluid ounces, the tea- cup about five fluid ounces, the breakfast-cup about eight fluid ounces, and the tumbler about eleven fluid ounces. The drop cannot be safely regarded as exactly eqviivalent to one minim. Domicile, Law of.— The place or country where a person's permanent home is ; it may differ from his place of residence, for he may be living temporarily, but not indefinitely, in a foreign country; in cases of insanity, a lunatic " usually retains the domicile which he possessed at the time when he began to be legally treated as non compos." Donda NdUga. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Tropical Phagedcena).—The name means literally "brother" or "companion ulcer." Donovan - Leishman Bodies.— Small oval bodies (parasitic), probably protozoan in nature, found in the spleen, liver, blood, etc., in cases of malaria, chronic dysentery, kala-azar, low fever, etc.