DIARRHCEA 347 irritant poisoning, whether from putrefactive alkaloids or from inorganic poison, must be kept in view. Amongst articles of diet which have in many instances given rise to severe diarrhoea may be mentioned pork-pie, veal-pie, sausages, tinned meats and fruits, stale oysters, crabs, fheese, ice-cream. In ciironic diarrha'a a systematic examination of the evacuations, paying attention to the points mentioned in the paragraph on the " Character of the Stools," is of the first importance. Micro- scopic or bacteriological examination may lead to a correct diagnosis. Obviously the existence of any present or past disease which may be the t;ause of the diarrhoea must be ascertained. Digital examination of the i-ectum and examina- tion with Kelly's rectal speculum will often give important information. The diagnosis of the part of the bowel chiefly atFected is usually difficult, and often impossible. In catarrh of the small intestine there are often severe colicky pains, and the stools are greyish- yellow or ochreous, not very frequent, and may contain partially digested food. There are no definite symptoms of duodenitis, but it is usually associated with gastritis, and often with jaundice. When the large intestine is affected, pain may be absent, or may be very intense. The evacua- tions have a soupy consistence, and may contain large quantities of nmcus. Their passage may be.attended by marked tenesmus if the lower part of the bowel is affected. Treatment.—Acute Diarrhcta.—Acutedietetic diarrhoea requires little treatment in slight cases except rest and abstention from solid food, but in most cases recovery will be hastened by the administration of a purgative as soon as possible ■after the onset of the attack. For this purpose half an ounce of castor oil with 20 or 30 drops ■of laudanum is a favourite prescription. A dose of rhubarlj is preferred by some. If the diai-rhcea still continues twent^'-four hours after the action of the purgative, an alkaline stomachic mixture with carminatives may be ordered, or moderate doses of aromatic chalk powder, chalk mixture, or bismuth. If vomiting is present as well as diarrhwa, ice maybe given to suck, and small doses of bismuth and pidv. ipecac, co. administered at intervals of a few hours will be found useful. Where small motions are being passed fre(]uent]y, and accompanied by a good deal of irritation of the rectum, an enema of one or two omices of stai-ch with 20 to 30 drops of laudanum should be given. Other forms of acute diarrhcea should be treated on similar lines. Rest in bed, warmth, and the restriction of the diet to milk or bland farinaceous food often make the patient com- })aratively comfortable even when the evacua- tions have previously been vei'V numerous. In nervous diarrhcea, which is usually re- current, the patient should be taught to restrain the impulse as much as possible. If about to be exposed to any condition likely to bring on an attack, a dose of bromide of j>otassium may be administered beforehand. Chronic and Secondary Diarrha'a. — In all cases the diet must be attended to, and all articles of food which are not being properly digested must be forbidden. In some forms of tropical diarrhoea rest in bed and the absolute restriction of the diet to milk is found to be the most effective treatment. Prolonged rest in bed is often the best remedy for chronic diarrha'a in hysterical women. A diet restricted more or less strictly to raw meat is found useful in some forms of chronic diarrhoea. AVliere diarrhoea is associated with acidity of the intestinal contents, chalk or carbonate of bismuth may be ordered with some of the vegetable astringents, and with or without opium. In some cases, anol especially when there are frequent watery olischarges, the mineral astringents will succeeol better, such as the per- nitrate or j^erchloride of iron, sulphate of copjjer, or nitrate of silver. Antiseptics have been much used of late in the treatment of diarrha^a of microbic origin, and may be tried in any case whei'e the odour of the evacuations is very offensive. Perhaps the most successful method of producing some approach to asepsis in the bowel is to give one or two purgative doses of calomel followed by the continued administration of salol in full oloses. Such treatment, however, is obviously unsuitable for many cases of chi'onic diarrha?a, but calomel in repeateol small doses, carbolic acid, biniodide of mercury, naphthaline, /3-naphthol, salicylate and subgallate of liismuth are all useful. Where the mischief is chiefly in the colon, daily irrigation with a large (juantity of fluid should be cai'ried out. For this purpose salt solution (one drachm to a pint) or a 1 per cent solution of boracic or salicylic acid may be \ised. If ulceration of the colon is present, astringent injections are often of the greatest value, such as nitrate of silver in the proportion of a drachra to two pints of warm water. Dia.rthrOSiS.—A joint allowing motion in all directions ; a free arthrosis. DiaSCOpiC Method.—The method of diagnosing tlie nodules of lupus vulgaris by pressing a j)iece of glass on them ; the accompany- ing hyper;x;mia can thus be made to disappear, but not the nodules (U/ina). See Skix, Tuhercu- l.osis OF (Lu/iii.f, Clinical Features). Diastase.—A ferment existing in malt, which, acting upon broken starch granules, con- verts them into dextrin and maltose; in the ]jrocess various dextrins (differing in their rota- I tory power, and in other particulars) are pro-