OF—BRONCHIECTASIS BRONCHI, DISEASES 29 or, again, of the signs of obstruction of bronchus or of some tumouBS, malignant or otherwise, producing compression. Retraction of the side and displacement of the heart are nsually the result of a contracting fibrosis or of an old pleurisy, and are not found so frequently in the second group, where the organising pneumonia is secondary to the dilata- tion of bronchi. When the disease is confined to one or both apices of the lungs the case is usually a tuberculous one, though this is not an invariable rule. AGNOSis.—(a) Fi'om. Tuberculous Disease of Lungs.—In the early stages the compai'ative well-being of the patient, the absence of wasting and of pyrexia, and the common association of clubbing of finger-s (more rare in tuberculosis) serve to distinguish the case from one of tuber- culous disease. In phthisis a basic disease, moreover, is of extreme rarity, unless the apex has been primarily affected. T\ibcrculous cases, however, do occur with fibroid consolidation of one base. These are usually of pleuritic origin, or are found in rare cases of senile tuberculosis. The absence of tubercle bacilli is to be assumed. It must not be forgotten, however, that bronchial dilatation with its cliaracteristic symptoms is occasionally an accompaniment of tuV)erculous disease, especially in those forms where there is much induration. The diagnosis is more difficult when tiiere is bronchiectasis with chronic pneumonia of the upper lobe, especially if luemoptysis be also present. In such cases the physical sign (upon whicli stress has been laid)()f the variability of voice-resonance, and even of respiratory murmur in different situations at the apex, becomes of importance. The changes due to the emptying and refilling of a cavity are sometimes found in a basic tuber- culous excavation, but far more often in bronchi- ectasis. These signs are less likely to occvn- at the apex of the lung. (b) The discharge of a localised or small basic empyema into a bronchus with the formation of a permanent sinus is to be distinguished from bronchiectasis by the history of the disease, and usually by the absence of foetor of the muco- purulent or purulent discharge. The diagnosis is not always easy, because in an old discharging empyema the fingers and toes are often extremely clubbed, the discharge is intermittent and occa- sionally blood-stained and fa3tid. The factor of expectoration is usually a sign that more than a mere sinus is present, and that probably as a result of the pleurisy and consequent cirrhosis of lung some of the neighbouring bronchi have become dilated. ((•) Chronic Bronchitis.—As we have previously stated, it is often impossible to diagnose dilated bronchi in a case of chronic bronchitis, though it may be conjectured that the condition is present if the sputum becomes fostid and the fingers clubbed. Most authors describe a form of bronchitis with offensive sputum under the name of fa'tid bronchitis or bronchorrha^a. The writer is of opinion that this disease is a myth, and that factor of the bronchitic sputimi in cases of chronic bronchitis means nothing more than that some of the l)ronchi are the subjects of fusiform dilatation, and that owing to the accunudation of secretion and conse(]uent de- composition the sputum becomes offensive. When the fingers are not clubbed, care must be taken not to confound foetor of breath, cough, or sputum with that due to other causes. Pharyngeal mucus is sometimes excessive and of extremely offensive odoiu-, but the discharge is usually in the early morning. Ozajna and the foetor from carious teeth and the offensive breath from constipation with disturbed liver must all be eliminated. {d) Gangrene and' Abscess of Lung.—Gangrene is an acute and grave condition, and could only be confounded with the later and ulcerative stages of bronchial dilatation. As a rule, the history aids the diagnosis. The gangrenous odour is usually distinct and characteristic, but may be confused with that of bronchiectasis. Some aid is also to be obtained from an examina- tion of the sputum. In gangrene there is more destruction of tissue, and elastic fibres are frequently found, whereas the expectoration from a bronchiectatic cavity rarely contains them. If gangrene is associated witii tuljer- culosis, tubercle bacilli will also be present. As in the case of gangrene, the formation of a pulmonary abscess is sudden in its onset. Whether a sequela of pneumonia or a result of pulmonary embolus, the disease is acute, and usually an evacuation of pus is followed by a quiescence of symptoms. Cases, h(.)wever, occur of a basic pulmonary abscess in which factor of exjjectoration, inter- mittent cough, and discharge of pus and club- bing of fingers are present. They are extremely ditticult to diagnose from a sacculated bronchi- ectasis. The foetor is not so pronounced as in gangrene. Several cases have been recorded in which operative procedure has resulted in com- plete cure. A small localised empyema dis- charging through the lung, or a sub-pleural chronic abscess, may easily be confomided with a single sacculated dilatation of a bronchial tube. PnoGKOSis.—Bronchiectasis is usually an ex- tremely chronic disease. In children the acute cases associated with capillary bronchitis rai-ely recover. The condition of the heart and cir- culation (especi;dly right heart) is an important element in prognosis. The onset of pj'a-mia, acute or chronic, j^rofuse hjemoptj'sis, or cerebral symptoms are of grave significance, and usually precede a fatal termination. In addition to the many complications of the disease already re- ferred to, death may result from exhaustion. Treatment.—General Considerations.-—Atten- tion must be paid to tlie nutrition and strength