332 DIABETES MELLITUS or gout, long duration of the disease without much wasting, favourable conditions of life, in the female onset about the climacteric period. The Diagnosis of diabetes mellitus is usually easy. The disease may be overlooked, however, and the jjatient treated simply for one of the complications. It is important to remember that occasionally the patient complains chiefly of weakness and wasting. It is important not to mistake a temporary and mild glycosuria for true diabetes. Pathological Anatomy. — Numerous patho- logical changes have been described in diabetes, yet, strictly speaking, the disease has no definite pathological anatomy. The changes met with are usually due to complications or are secondary in nature, and it would scarcely be possible for a pathologist to diagnose diabetes without a clinical history or the chemical examination of the ui'ine or blood. For this reason the changes found post-mortem in the various organs have been already described in considering the relation of diabetes to disease of the nervous system, liver, and pancreas, and in the description of the complications. The condition of the blood has been described under the symptomatology. Pathogenesis. — The true nature of the disease remains obscure. The theories as to its exact origin are numerous, but none is altogether satisfactory. Sugar appears in the urine because there is an excess of sugar in the blood, and the symptoms of the disease are due to the same cause. The cause of the excess of sugar in the blood has been attributed to (1) an excessive formation of sugar in the system; (2) a diminished sugar destruction; (3) by some writers it is believed that in certain cases there is an excessive sugar formation, in others a diminished sugar destruction. Bunge has given good reasons for rejecting the view of excessive formation as regards the origin of the sugar from articles of food. Kaufmann, on the other hand, has brought forward experimental evidence in favour of increased sugar formation. He isolated the liver by tying all its vessels in a healthy dog, and also in another dog which had been rendered diabetic by extirpation of the pan- creas. The sugar in the blood gradually became diminished during its circulation in various parts of the body, but the blood lost the same proportion of sugar both in the healthy and in the diabetic animal. Hence, he concludes that sugar destruction was the same in each. Many authors believe that diabetes in man is usually due to diminished sugar destruction. In the mild forms of diabetes removal of carbo- hydrates from the diet causes the glycosuria to cease. In such cases the sugar appears to be derived in some way, directly or indirectly, from the carbohydrates of the food. Seegen believes that in the mild form (which he terms the "hepatogenic") the liver cells are unable to assimilate the carbohydrates in a normal manner. But pathological anatomy has failed to reveal any definite changes in the liver associated with diabetes. According to Pavy, the two lines of defence— intestinal villi and the liver—are inadequate to accomj^lish the function of synthesising the carbohydrates. Hence the latter reach the general circulation in excessive quantity and appear as sugar in the urine. In the severe forms of diabetes the sugar in the urine is evidently not dependent simply on the carbohydrates of the food. Since the glycosuria persists when the diet consists only of fat and nitrogenous substances, and persists even when no food is taken, Pavy believes that in these severe forms the sugar is derived not only from the food but also from the tissues. He believes that the proteids of the body have a glucoside constitution, and that in diabetes of the severe form a carbohydrate is cleaved off from these proteids by the action of some ferment which he supposes to be present in the system. According to Seegen, in the severe forms the cells and tissues of the organisms have lost their function of destroying the sugar in the blood. Limited space forbids a discussion of the subject, but whatever view we take of the sugar formation or destruction the question finally arises. What is the cause of the abnor- mality in diabetes ? Pavy believes that as regards the liver there is a vasomotor paralysis and dilatation of the small arterioles owing to some change in the nervous system. As a result the blood in the liver is in a hyper-oxygenated state,^and this favours the passage of carbohydrates into glucose. But Seegen points out that Pavy was al)le to produce diabetes experimentally by injury to the nervous system after ligature of the hepatic artery, and he asks, therefore, how vasomotor paralysis can be regai'ded as the explanation. It has been already shown that there is strong evidence that some change in the nervous system is the starting-point of the disease in many cases. Also experiments on animals and pathological observations render it very probable that, in some cases of diabetes, pancreatic changes are the cause of the disease. It has also been pointed out that atheroma might act as the starting-point of diabetes by producing changes in the nervous system or in the pancreas, and there are a few cases on record which afford strong evidence of diabetes being the result of pancreatic changes which were secondary to atheroma. Diabetes has been attributed by Bunge and others to pathological chemical changes com- mencing in the muscles.