BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS 15 runiifyiuL; in tliu iniior tiljroiis coat, immediately beneath the basement membrane — that is to say, of the l)i-anches of the bronchial artery. Ln a few hours the ))asement membrane became •swollen from seroiis infiltration. Next, and quite early in tiie course of the attcction, Socolett' and Hamilton found that the cihated epithelial layer desquamates, and is not regenerated till recovery takes place, when it is gradually re- produced. The cells of this layer undergo fatty degeneration, and Hamilton says that it is no doubt partly destroyed by this means and partly expectorated, while others may l)e inhaled into the smaller bronchi, where they may be seen lying in large detaclied masses among the other catarrhal products. Wilson Fox and Biermer consider that the epithelial desquamation is largely a p(wt-mortem change, and Hamilton admits that the shedding is seldom complete, the deep layer of transitional cells, or at least the single layer of flat germinating cells, usually remaining, and by a process of fissiparous division rapidly reproduces the nucleated cells, which, being continually thrown oft", give to the secretion its peculiar catarrhal character. At the same time the mucous glands are particularly active, and it is the combination of this catarrhal mucus with the epithelial cells which gives rise to the so-called nnico - purulent fluid which occupies the l)ronchial lumen until removed by expectoration. After al.)out the tenth day, Hamilton found that the congestion not only affects the inner fibnnis coat, but that all parts of the In-onchus exhibit vessels over-distended and engorged with Itlood, and t hat, pari passu with the changes in the epithelial covering, the inner fibrous coat becomes infiltrated with cells derived from the endothelium lining the lymphatic spaces, until the whole of the lymph- spaces become choked by these new cellidar products. These cells, according to Hamilton, never extend towards the free surface of the mucous membrane, the ))asement mernlirane forming an impassable barrier in that directi(jn, but they invariably spread outwards, through the inter-muscular lymphatic spaces, to the adventitia, where similar changes will be found to have taken place. But this proliferation, with the production of leucocytes, soon spreads throughout the lobular septa to the deeper layers of the pleura, the whole of the lymphatic vessels becoming the sid^ject of a catarrh, while the lymphatic glands at the root of the lung are then invariably found enlarged. The hyperanuia of the mucous membrane m;iy almost entirely disappear after death, but as a rule it is bright red, or in cases of longer duration dark purple, antl presents a thickened, opaque, and velvety appearance, the lumen of the smaller tubes being diminished by these changes, and filled with thick, opaque, yellow secretion which exudes from the small bronchi from the cut surface of the lung on pressure. Bronchitis of the smaller tubes is accompanied by pul- monary congestion and a;dema, and generally areas of collapsed lung or foci of lobular pneu- monia may be found. Again, Hamilton has found that the first in- dication of recovery taking place in bronchitis seems to be the diminution of the congestion of the nnicous membi'ane, the vessels apparently recovering their tone, the proliferation of the epithelium Ijecoming less active, the cells being once more fully developed into columnar cells, while the cellular infiltration of the bronchial wall and the lymphatic vessels becomes gradually absorbed in cases which jjroceed to recovery. In those cases which, from the severity of the attack, or from failure of the factors which make for recovery, or which from the outset owing to the persistence of less acute causes, pass into the condition of chronic bronchitis, the mucous membrane and entire bronchial wall remain thickened, the muscular coat becomes hypertrophied, while the mucous glands and the bronchial cartilages more or less completely disap})ear, being replaced by dense cellular in- filtration. In advanced cases, however, the nius- cularis and the adventitia become atrophied probably owing to the cellular infiltration of the lymphatics, and thus arise those changes which from various causes result in bronchiectasis, emphysema, interstitial j^neumonia, and other pulmonary complications which are beyond the scope of this article. Col/apse of the Lunj/.—A collection of the catarrhal secretion of bronchitis may temporarily occlude a smaller bronchus, resulting in weak- ness or absence of the vesicular murmur over the corresponding portion of the lung. On the patient coughing, the occluding mass of secretion may be dislodged, the air again entering the air-vessels. But the inflammation may extend to the smallest bronchioles, or the muco- purulent secretion may be sucked down so as to plug a bronchial channel which itself is un- aftected. Especially if in any part of the lung- several of these finer divisions are occluded, no eftbrt of coughing may suffice to dislodge it. The air in the corresponding portion of the lung- then becomes absorbed by the surrounding- pul- monary capillaries, and the air-vesicles collapse, with more or less so - called " compensatory enqjhysema" in the other portion of the lung. CoUajased lung has a pinkish red appearance, and on section is reddish brown, giving a frog- spawn sensation to the touch, and the corre- sponding surface of the lung is depressed. Merely collapsed lung does not as a rule become inflamed, unless it be from extension of in- flammation from a neighbouring patch of pneu- monia, and on the removal of the obstructing cause, if this be not too long delayed, may again become inflated. But coincidently with the occurrence of collapse, patches of lobidar pneinnonia, with true red hepatisation, are