CATARACT 71 hypermetropia would not altogether counteract the previous myopia. With the absence of accommodation neces- sarily following the removal of the crystalline lens {vide " Accouunodation "), a stronger glass than that used for a distance is always required for reading. As a general rule the reading glass should be about 4'0 D stronger; therefore in the case of previously emmetropic eyes + 14*0 to + 15"0. But this depends upon the distance at which the individual reads. With good visual acuity lie may prefer to use a weaker reading glass. Considerable alteration in focus is also got by sliding the spectacles up and down the nose, as their effect is stronger the farther they are removed from the eye. In this way what is tantamount to a certain range of accommodation is practically obtained. Cataract lenses should always be of glass, not of crystal (pebble). Glass does not transmit the actinic i"ays to the same extent, and these rays are hurtful to the eye. Cataract lenses diminish the field of vision very materially. On this account they should be worn as large as possible, compatible with not too great weight. As a general rule the best vision is only obtained with sphero- cylindrical lenses, that is, lenses one surface of which is spherical and the other cylindrical. This is on accomit of the astigmatism already referred to. Sphero - cylindrical lenses are necessarily heavier than ordinary biconvex spherical lenses. When only one eye has been operated upon and the other is of little use, the spectacles may conveniently be made reversible, i.e. the one side provided with the distant and the other with the reading glass. Cataract glasses should not be worn as long as there is much cortex left to be absorbed. In any case it is inadvisable to use them sooner than a fortnight after extraction. When used soon they have often to be changed after some months owing to the change which takes place in the amount of operative astigmatism. Ca.ta,rrh. — Inflammation of a mucous membrane. See Bronchi, Bronchitis ; Bron- chitis (" C'aiarrAe sec "); Hay Fever; Influ- enza; Measles (^Analysis of Symptoms, Catarrh); Nose, Acute Inflammation {Acute Jthinitis or Coryza); Nose, Chronic Inflammation : Si'OMACH AND DuoDENUM, DISEASES (Gastritis). Catarrhe Sec (Laennec).—Dry chronic bronchitis, with severe paroxysms of coughing. See Bronchitis {Clinical Varieties). Catarrh US /Estivus. See Hay Fever. Catarrh US Communis. See Nose, Inflammation {Coryyi). Catarrh us Epidemicus. See Influenza. Catarrhus Ferinus. -See Whooping- COUGII. CatastasiS. — Constitution ; habit of body; restitution or the diminution in the severity of the symptoms of a disease (in contrast to paroxysm). Catatony.—A psychosis, described by Kahlbaum, characterised by cramps, tetanoid rigidity, catalepsy, melancholia, and stupor; it resembles melancholia attonita and gcnei-al paralysis of the insane. See Katatonia ; Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Morbid Somnolence). Catchment Area.—That i^art of a river basin from which rain is collected, usually for the purposes of water-supply. Catechu. >Vee Astringents ; Diarrh(Ea; Pharmacology; Prescribing. — Pale catechu (obtained from Uncaria Gambier) is an astrin- gent extract, which contains catechu-tannic acid, catechuic acid or catechiii (C.2jH„Q0g), and pyro- catechin or catechol (C,;H^(OH)o). It is power- fully astringent, and is given in doses of 5 to 15 gr.; it is incompatible with gelatin, alkalies, and metallic salts. Its preparations fire Fulvis Catechu Compositus (dose, 10 to 40 gr.); Tinc- tura Catechu (dose, h to 1 fl. dr.), and Trochiscus Catechu. The lozenge (containing 1 gr. of catechu) is a favourite remedy for sore throats. Black Catechu (Acacia Catechu) is not official in the British Pharmacopa'ia. Caterpillar Rash. See Rubella, RosERASH {JJia(/nosis from Caterpillar Rash) ; Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Causal Agents, Animal); Myiasis {Hairy Caterpillars). Catgfut. See Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Sterilisatiun). CathaeresiS.—The feebly caustic action of a substance. Cathartics.—Drastic purgatives, such as calomel, jalap, aloes, scammony, colocynth, and crotou oil, which produce a violent action of the bowels, usually attended with griping and sometimes followed by considerable prostration. Some of them {e.g. elaterium and scammon}') cause a copious watery fl(j\v, and are called hydragogue. See also Constipation ; Pharma- cology ; Prescribing ; and under the various drugs. Catharsis is the name given to the effect which cathartics produce (literally, cleansing). CathelectrotonUS.—Whenagalvanic current is passed through a nerve that structure is found to be altered in condition at the poles; this altered state is called ehxtrotonus, and the special condition of increased irritability found at