274 DEAFMUTISM dren should be based on the evidence of natural ability shown by the child. Congenitally stone- deaf children often make bright pupils. Semi- deaf children who have had their hearing damaged by meningitis and scarlet fever are often dull and make little progress. The treatment of deafmutisni divides itself into surgical and educational. Five to ten per cent of deaf-mute children have chronic sup- purative disease of the middle ear with or without necrosis of the ossicles or internal tympanic wall when they are sent to school. These cases require treatment on ordinary surgical lines. But a far larger number of deaf-mute children have enlarged tonsils and post-nasal adenoids. Now the removal of these growths will not make the children hear, but if any serious attempt is to be made to make the children speak well, these growths should be removed wherever they are well marked. As deafmutism depends in nearly every case on destruction of or absence of the internal ear, efforts having for their object the restoration of hearing will necessarily fail. But the question arises whether an attempt should be made to use the partial hearing which so many deaf children have. Now this, like almost all ques- tions connected with the education of the deaf, must be decided with reference to the circum- stances and position of the child. If the parents can afford it, the child should have a teacher all to himself, and with the help of conversation tubes, phonograph, etc., everything should be done to teach the child through his auditory nerve. But in a schoolroom, with classes of sijc to twelve in number, this is clearly impossible. Further, teaching by conversation tube is resented by teachers; they do not like the shouting involved. A few teachers in this country and in America have tried this acoustic method, and find that the speech of oral pupils is improved in about 15 or 20 per cent of the cases by this method of teaching. If carefully and persistently used this method may be made a great help to oral pupils. Seldom will it be possible to teach the deaf-mute child by the auditory nerve alone. On the general question of educational methods it is not the intention of this paper to dilate at length, but it may be stated that in the opinion of the writer the oral method should be adopted for the preservation and perfecting of the speech which the semi-mute have still left. Also when there is any great remnant of hearing the oral should be combined with the acoustic method, and in these two classes of cases the semi-mute and the semi-deaf signs should be excluded as much as possible. But there remains the great class of the true deaf mutes—those who have never spoken and who have no hearing which can be used. These form two-thirds or three- quarters of the entire number of the deaf and dumb. When one of these children can be taught in private and have the entire attention of a teacher, the oral method will generally give results gratifying to its parents and of great benefit to the child, and it should only be given up for the finger method if fair progress is not being made with the education of the child. In an institution many children, perhaps most, will do better on the finger method or on a combined method. For the first year the writer thinks all deaf-mute children should be educated on the oral method. At the end of this period the teacher will know if the child is likely to make a good oral pupil, and will regulate his future accordingly. This involves two schools —an oral and a finger school—in every large centre of population, from the former of which all signs are as far as possible excluded. Like the hearing child the deaf mute should be sent early to school, and in this country both law and expediency have fixed seven years as the best time for beginning education at school. For Scotland in 1891 and for England in 1894 an Act came into force, the chief provisions of which are these—Education is compulsory from the age of seven to that of sixteen, and the duty of seeing that this is carried out is laid on School Boards or the school authorities of the parish where the parents of the deaf children reside. The authorities, in carrying out the Act, are at liberty to provide a school of their own, or they may send the child to a certified school or institution outside their bounds, the parents being allowed a reasonable amount of liberty in the choice of a school. Where the parents from poverty are unable to pay the fees, the school authority is required to pay, not only for the education, but also for the maintenance of the child. List of Trades, etc., in which the Deaf and Dumb are employed {Report oftJic Glasgow Mission to the Deaf and Dumb, 1894-95) Artist 1 Brought forward 83 Art Metal Workers . 2 Diesmaker 2 Bakers 4 Domestic Servants 3 Beltniaker. 1 Draughtsmen 6 Blacksmiths 2 Dressmakers 10 Boilermakers 6 Dyer. . . . 1 Bookbinders 20 Engine Fitters . 6 Bookfolders 4 Fancy Boxmakers 6 Boxmakers 5 Fisliing Tackle Makers , 2 Brass Engravers 7 Gardeners . 2 Brass Finisher . 1 Glass Decorators 3 Bricklayers 2 Glass Stainers . 2 Brickmakers 2 House Joiners . 3 Brushmakers 4 Iron Workers 3 Butcher 1 Jewel Case Makers 2 Cabinetmakers . 2 Jeweller 1 Calenderer 1 Labourers . 15 Capmaker . 1 Lamplighters 2 Carpet Designers 5 Lithographic Artists 15 Caulkers . 3 Marble Cutters . 2 Chairmaker 1 Mill Workers 4 Clerk 1 Moulders . 3 Compositors 5 Needlewomen . 8 Confectionery Worker 1 Painters 2 Cooper 1 Patternmakers . 4 Carry forward 83 Carry forward 190