CORNEA 234 buried. At the slightest attempt to open the eyes a copious gush of tears comes out, and it is well-nigh impossible to obtain a view of the cornea. These confluent phlyctenuke produce a swelling of the limbus, while the cornea in the immediate neighbourhood loses its transpai'ency. and contains a number of small grey points just beneath the epithelium. Witli small phlyctenulfe, as a rule resolution takes place, the elevations disappear. If they bi'cak down into an ulcer by loss of the covering epithelium, the ulcer as a rule heals, but it may become infected and take on the cliaracters of an in- fective ulcer (see p. 232). In other cases the behaviour is quite diff"erent: tlie ulcer assumes a chronic course and may remain stationary for weeks, vessels grow into the cornea from the limbus towards the crater-liko depression, and liealing takes place slowly. The healing does not always follow the ingrowth of vessels ; tlie ulcer slowly pushes its way towards the centre of the cornea, canying the leash of blood-vessels witli it. This condition is known as a Leash ulcer or Fascicular keratitis. The advancing edge of the ulcer is convex towards the centre of the cornea, and somewhat raised in the form of a crescent, consisting of an e.xudation into the corneal substance, the vessels of the fasciculus ending in the concavity of the crescent. The difl'erence between this leash ulcer and the natural healing of an ulcer by an ingi'owth of vessels lies in the fact that the leash ulcer con- tains a yellow edge of purulent exudation. This condition may last weeks or months, and results in tlie formation of a l)and-like opacity which remains visible for j'cars. Wiiere the ulcers of tlie cornea are multiple and adjacent to one another the ingrowth of vessels of repair from the limbus may occupy a considerable area of the cornea. These vessels remain as potential blood-channels for a very long time after the complete healing of the ulcer, and are liable to become easily congested, giving rise to a condition known as phlyctenular pannus, or superficial vascular keratitis. The vessels lie beneath the epithelium; at times they are invisible except to careful examination, and at others they are much enlarged, and the corneal surface is rough and Tineven. Causation.—-This is a disease of childhood, but it does not occur generally in children under one year old ; its most common period is from two to sixteen years; during this time skin eruptions, eczema, and impetigo about the face ai'e very common, together with a similar con- dition of the nasal mucous membrane. It most commonly occurs when the changes in tempera- ture are great and sudden, as in spring and autumn; as the effect of climatic changes is greater among people who live in damp, ill- ventilated, or overcrowded houses, so this dis- ease is common among the poor, and rarely occurs in children whose surroundings are satis- factory. As a probable result also of environ- ment the children fall into irregular habits of feeding, and eat anything at any odd time instead of having regular meals, whereby the appetite becomes capricious and the desire for unwholesome food is established. The next most common exciting cause is a previous attack of some acute exanthematous disease, such as measles, scarlet fever, or whoop- ing-cough, by far the most common of which is measles. The eye affection comes on a few weeks after the measles, and is not the same as the conjunctival inflammation which commonly ushers in the first stage of measles. The irrita- tion of head lice is a frequent accompaniment of the disease, and is especially likely to occur, as during this perio8 the children appear sufficiently morose and unattractive to make neglect proVj- able. It is held by many that this affection is in its nature strumous or scrofulous. The old term Scrofulous ophthalmia, besides including all the eye affections of this group, was applied to all cases in which tliere was extreme intoler- ance of light; it was thouglit that the photo- phobia was induced by an irritation of the optic nerve and retina, and a consequent reflex spasm of the orbicularis, but inasmuch as treatment applied to the terminations of the fifth nerve in the cornea and conjunctiva leads to diminution of the intolerance of light, we know that the affection is a superficial one only ; the intolerance is not greater than may be produced by a foreign body binder the upper lid. It is char- acteristic of all cases of superficial keratitis in the growing period of life that irritation, intoler- ance of light, and spasm of the lids are much greater than in adult life. Yet tiie term stru- mous or scrofulovis ophthalmia has this justifica- tion, that in a large number of cases of superficial corneal inflammation in the young there is a certain condition of the tissues which makes them favourably disposed to the occurrence of inflammatory outbreaks which are very chronic in their course, and which tend to recur without obvious cause. This condition is associated with a proneness of the lymphatic tissue in the bod}' to hyper- trophy, the glands in the neck or at the angle of the jaw become enlarged, the mucous mem- brane of the nose becomes swollen and inflamed, and masses of adenoid tissue form in the pharynx. Also if the family history and ante- ' cedents of the parents be carefully examined I there will be found a liability to tuberculous I affections in others of the family. Evidence of this sort has to be received with caution, as it depends on the statements of friends who are often anxious to produce what they think the inquirer is seeking to find. But the liability to recurrence of phlyctenular disease, its associa- tion with other lymphatic hypertrophies, the frequency of its appearance in more than one