178 COLON, DISEASES OF Ulcerative Colitis . . . .181 Other Varieties . . . . .183 Dilatation ov . . . . .184 Sacculation of . . . . .185 Injuries of . . . . . .185 Malformations of. . . . .185 Pigmentation of . . . . .185 Malignant Disease . . . .185 See also Abdomen, Injuries op (Lesions of the Intestine) ; Gastro - Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Congenital Dilatation of the Colon); Intestines, Surgical Affections of {Strictures); Liver, Tropical Abscess {Rujiture into Colon); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Large In- testine) ; Typhoid Fever {Symptoms, " Bell Sound "). Inflammation and Ulceration — 1. Simple Colitis.—The colon may be the seat of a simple catarrhal inflammation comparable to a gastritis or a bronchitis. If in such a case the inflamma- tion extends low enough, a rectal examination with a speculum will show the mucous mem- brane to be intensely injected, of a light red colour, swollen, and secreting a thick mucus. The description of Wilks and Moxon gives a very good picture of the state of things seen after death. They mention a " case attended by discharge of mucus and blood where after death the whole internal surface of the colon presented a highly vascular soft red surface covered with tenacious mucus or adherent lymph, and here and there showing a few minute points of ulceration. The coats also were much swollen by exudation into the mucous and sub- mucous tissues." There are two varieties of simple colitis, viz. that which occurs either by extension from neighbouring parts or in association with some grave morbid condition, and that which is unassociated with any other serious malady. This, which has been called acute jn-invxry colitis, will now be described. Symptoms.—The main symptom is diarrhoea, which may come on suddenly; there is much mucus in the stools, and often blood also, even in considerable quantities. At first there may be absolutely no fsecal matter, but as the patient improves the motions contain more faeces and less mucus. The blood is mostly fluid and but little changed, so that we may infer that it has but recently left the vessels, and has come, therefore, from the large intestine. Often the mucus is in little lumps. Triple phosphate crystals may be seen on microscopical examina- tion, and, more rarely, oxalate of lime, cholesterin, and Charcot's crystals. The bowels may be open many times a day, and although tenesmus is not a striking feature, it may be pi'esent. A rectal examination reveals nothing abnormal except that the mucous membrane may feel a little rough. Abdominal pain is a very common symptom; it comes on in paroxysms, often associated with defajcation, but it bears no relationship to food. It is of a griping character, often very severe, and it nearly always follows the course of the colon. Between the attacks the patient may be free, but he sometimes com- plains of a dull pain. Abdominal tenderness is usually present; a very common seat for it is over the sigmoid flexure, but the whole colon, or even the whole abdomen, may be tender. There may be considerable pyrexia even when there is much diarrhoea and loss of blood. The pulse is rapid, and in a severe case small, soft, and running. The abdomen is not much distended, and sometimes nausea, vomiting, and loss of appetite are present. The tongue is furred, and the fur is nearly always a pure white, while in many diseases with which colitis might be con- founded it is a brownish white. There is often much mental depression ; the sufferer from this disease exaggerates trifles and takes a gloomy view of life. In some cases the neurotic element is very marked, and we are forcibly reminded of the chronic neurotic dyspeptic. Many of these neurotic patients are men who may be said almost to live for their illness, and they are usually most difficult to cure. Simple colitis is by no means always so severe as this description might lead the reader to expect, but the difference is only one of degree. The majority of cases are mild, but, on the other hand, the diarrhoea may be uncontrollable, and the patient may die from exhaustion. The treatment consists in keeping the patient absolutely in bed until the diarrhoea has stopped, the motions are well formed, blood is no longer passed, and the temperature is normal; and longer still if he has had a severe attack. Warmth to the abdomen is very desiraVjle. He should consume nothing but milk, and should not take more than two fluid ounces at a time. The total daily amount will depend upon the acuteness of the attack and the general condition of the patient. A good way of checking the diarrhoea is to give some laudanum or chlorodyne with fifteen or twenty grains of carbonate of bismuth suspended in some mucilage every four hours; the compound kino powder is also very valuable. If these drugs fail, a starch and opium enema will often succeed. Should opium be for any reason contra-indicated, compound catechu powder is very useful. But all astrin- gent drugs should be omitted as soon as pos- sible, for the constipation that follows colitis is often very troublesome. It is best relieved by a rectal injection of six or eight ounces of warm olive oil or a drachm of glycerine. A long holiday among new and interesting sur- roundings greatly aids the convalescence in neurotic cases. The diagnosis is not usually difficult. The disease is known from ulcerative colitis by its sudden onset, by the large amount of mucus in the motions, by the fact that blood appears