176 COLIC colic, the same degree of stimulus having vastly different effects in different individuals. The exciting causes may be within the alimentary tube, in its wall, or outside altogether. The contents may act by their quantity or by their quality, or by both. Mere quantity by over- distension will over-stinuilate, e.g. accumulation of gas or of faeces from constipation, or from the various forms of obstruction, such as simple and malignant stricture, intussusception, volvulus, internal strangulation from bands, peritoneal adhesions and kinks, intestinal concretions, large gall-stones, coiled-up bundles of worms, and hernia. Exciting quality of contents is exem- plified by irritating articles of diet, themselves indigestible or containing ptomaine poison, by irritant poisons, by irritating purgative medicine, by irritating results of evil digestion. Exciting causes situated in the intestinal wall are seen in local injury, as from intussusception, hernia, etc., acting primarily by direct local effect, and, secondly, by over-distension behind; in ulcera- tion, malignant, simple, tuberculous, or dysen- teric ; in inflammation, catarrhal, enteric, or peritonitic, where the pain is partly to be accounted for by excited peristalsis. Causes outside the intestinal canal find their illustration in exposure to cold, in dentition, in mental anxiety or emotion, in disease of the spinal cord as locomotor ataxia, but these are associated rather with diarrhoea or neuralgia than with colic. It has not yet been satisfactorily demonstrated how the poison of lead produces colic. It prob- ably does not act through constipation or through organic disease of the sympathetic, but whether it acts directly on the intestinal muscu- lature or nervous ganglia, or by leading to con- traction of the blood-vessels, is a moot question. Treatment.—Whatever the cause, pain de- mands relief, all the more that, if very severe, it may lead to serious collapse, while the excited peristalsis, of which it is a symptom, has been found to cause rupture of the bowel. When intense, morphia should be injected subcutane- ously, and whiffs of chloroform given until it has had time to act. When less severe a hot bath or a warm poultice applied over the abdomen, with some sedative and antispasmodic, as morphia and chloric ether internally, suffices. Pain being relieved there is time to examine quietly into the case and to determine the cause, and upon the cause depends the scientific and successful treatment of the condition. The sedative, moreover, when given in an appropriate dose, paves the way by quieting irregular spasm for that regular and harmonious action of the musculature which leads to success. In gastric colic the stomach must be emptied. If it fail to do so by its own efforts, emesis must be en- couraged, or the stomacli tube used. In intestinal colic of any gravity, obscurity, or permanence, the physician should, without undue delay, associate himself with a surgeon. Where mere mechanical causes can be excluded, such as hernia, volvulus, etc., nature's attempt to empty the bowels must be assisted by the immediate use of rectal injections, and by the administration, where vomiting is not actively present, of non-irritating purgatives, such as castor oil, calomel, or salines. Where fsecal accumulation is within reach it is generally necessary to combine the use of the finger with the action of the enema in order to get rid of it. When legitimate efforts have failed to empty the bowel and give permanent relief, there should be no undue delay in decid- ing the question in consultation with a surgeon, whether the abdomen is to be opened or not for the detection and removal of any obstruction, or for the making of an artificial anus above the recognised seat of obstruction. Appendicular colic must be dealt with by removal of the appendix in a quiet interval. Until relief is obtained, in acute cases it is practically useless to feed the patient. Ice to suck or hot water to sip in order to relieve thirst should be given. Where recurring attacks occur from mal- digestion, as in bottle-feeding of infants, preven- tion must be secured by proper dieting. Where colicky attacks are caused by catarrh or by ulceration of the bowel, appropriate dieteti- cal and medicinal treatment is necessary. The colic said to be associated with the first stage of peritonitis, and the colics from causes outside the alimentary canal, acting reflexly, can only be relieved by sedative treatment such as morphia or the hot bath. Colica Pictonum.—Lead colic, especi- ally common in Poiton (hence the name). Colitis. — Inflammation of the mucous membrane and also of the deeper-seated parts of the colon. See Colon, Diseases of. See also Appendix Vermiformis {Appendicitis, Diagnosis); Cholera Nostras {Diagnosis); Faeces {in Ulcer- ative Colitis); Stools {Intestinal Sand and Gravel); Typhoid Fever {Diagnosis from Ulcer- ative Colitis). Coila.gfen.—A substance of which non- elastic fibres are composed, allied to the proteids (but not yielding tyrosin when decomposed), having a great affinity for carmine ; when boiled it takes up water to form gelatin. (Gr. KoAAa, glue; yevvav, to form.) See Physiology, Tissues {Connective Tissues). Collapse.—The loss, more or less sudden, or the great weakening, of most of the signs of vital activity, occurring either as the last stage of shock or as the result of a severe disease {e.g. cholera) or a long-continued one (typhoid fever). See Shock {Definition). See also Cholera, Epidemic {Treatment, Collapse); Labour, Post-