155 Cirrhosis. — The morbid change in an organ or stmicture by which it becomes firmer in consistence and, as a rule, smaller in size; it is produced mainly by hyperplasia of the con- nective tissue of the organ or part. Hec Liver, Diseases of {Biliary Cirrhosis; Portal Cirrho- sis) ; Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis [Pathological Anatomy) ; Nephritis {Renal Cirrhosis). CirsOCeie.—A varicose state of the sper- matic veins forming a swelling; a varicocele ; the word is derived from Ktpo-os, a varix, and Krj^y], a swelling. The condition may be com- bined with hydrocele {cirshydrosrheocele). Cirsoid Aneurysm. — A swelling composed of enhirged and dilated arteries. See Aneurysm {Arterio-venous Intercommunications). CirS0mpha.l0S.—A varicose condition in and around the umbilicus; caput medusa) {q.V.) CirSOphthaimia. — Ophthalmia as- sociated with a varicose condition of the con- junctival blood-vessels. CirSOtomy. — The operation of excision of varices. CiSSampelOS. — The dried wood of Cissampelos 'pareira \ official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the B.P. ; it is used in cystitis and allied states ; and it is given either as the Decoctum Cissampeli (dose, | to 2 fl. oz.) or as the Extractum Cissampeli Licjuichtm (dose, I to 2 fl. dr.). See Agropyrum. Cisterns.—Cisterns for storing water for drinking purposes should be made of galvanised iron or slate, not of lead (.s'ee Toxicology, Chronic Lead Poisoning); they should be ventilated, should have an overflow pipe passing directly into the open air, and should be easily accessible for purposes of cleansing and inspecting; they should hold about three days' supply of water; a water-closet should have a small cistern of its own (which may be made of lead), wliich should empty completely each time, and be supplied from the large cistern. See Water. Citarin.—An antipyretic and antirheu- matic preparation {Merck), being sodium anhy- dromethylene citrate : used in doses of 8 to 20 grains in rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, etc. Citric Acid. — Acidum citricum (H.,CyHj,0-.H.,0) exists in the juice of many fruits, and is usually got from the lemon or lime; it is contained in the succus limonis and syrupus limonis, and, as the citrate, in prepara- tions of potash of iron and ammonium, and of iron and quinine ; it may be given as a refresh- ing drink in fever (lemonade), or as an anti- scorbutic (lime or lemon juice) ; the dose of the acid is 5 to 20 grains. Citrine Ointment. — Unguentum hydrargyri nitratis. See Mercury. CittOSiS.—Depraved appetite ; pica. Civet.—An unctuous substance with a niusk-like odour, obtained from the pouch lying between the anus and the genital organs of the civet cat (Viverra civetta), and formerly used as an antispasmodic. Civiale's iVietliod of internal Urethrotomy.—Internal urethrotomy in which a concealed knife is passed through the structure, which is divided from behind for- wards. See Urethra, Diseases of {Internal Urethrotomy). Civil Incapacity — Capacity (Mental) for Civil Contract, etc. —It may be stated generally that a person while insane is legally incapable of entering into a contract; he is in the legal sense incapable of giving the consent which is essential thereto. Consequently he cannot enter into the contract of marriage, nor can he execute a will. More- over, the management of his property may be removed entirely from his control. What constitntes Legal Insanity.—It is not possible to formulate any criterion which would be generally applicable to the varied cases which arise. To generalise in the matter would be to mislead. The question of insanitj^ in such cases is always the question of capacity intelli- gently to do the particular act. The late Lord President Inglis (in the Scottish case of Morri- son, 1862, 24 D. at p. 631) said to the jury : " I am not going to give you any definition of insanity, and I am not even going to define to you what legal capacity is in a question of this kind, because I may tell you at once that the question whether a man is in such a state of mind as to be capable of executing a deed of this kind is a question of fact, and not of law. . . . The test of his capacity to execute such a settlement may be very reasonably stated with reference to the nature of the settlement itself, but it cannot possibly be stated without refer- ence to the settlement, because a man may have strength of mind—power of intellect sufficient to enable him to do one thing, to make one kind of mental exertion—and yet he may be totally incapable of making another. A man may be so far weakened in his mind as not to be able to follow a difficult process of reasoning . . . and yet be perfectly capable of making a simple destination of his property. The two things are totally different. You can easily understand that a man may not be capable of very long- sustained mental exertion, and yet may be quite capable, reasonably and fairly, of saying, I N\ ant my estate to go to A. B., or I want to disinherit my heir and to leave my estate to an hospital. That is not a very complex idea ; and if a