BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHITIS 19 With threatening apnoea, the use of oxygen inhalations, or, on rare occasions, venesection, may be indicated. It is hardly necessary here to give directions in regard to diet in bronchitis, beyond emphasising the importance of keeping the patient on low diet in the beginning of an attack ; for the gastro-intestinal tract is always more or less deranged, and calls for ap])rop)'iate treatment. II. ChlRONK: HliONClUTIS IX AdUI/IS Etiolouy.—Chronic bronchitis is due to much the same, though generally more persistent, causes as the acute form ; but the influence of predisposing factors and constitutional condi- tions is more potent, and is more usually the essential cause of the chronic affection. More- over, chronic broncliitis is distinguished ratlier by its protracted course and secondary com- plications than by any special clinical features. In some cases frequent subacute attacks, by increasing the susceptibility of the individual, and resulting in a gradual permanent impair- ment of the tissues, pass insensibly and without any line of demarcation into the clironic form. Thus chronic bronchitis may follow repeated attacks of acute bronchitis, or may be chronic from the beginning. It is usually met with in the aged, the " winter cough" of old people recun'ing from year to year throiighout the colder months. Various diatheses, such as syphilis, gout, and renal disease, heart affections, especially disease of the mitral valve, aneurysm, and chronic lung aifections, such as phthisis, emphysema, and dilated bronchi, and almost any condition impairing general health, predispose to chronic bronchitis. But a mild form is also met with in children and young adults who suffer periodically from recurrent catarrhal attacks, either on the slightest exposure, or it may be associated with gastro-intestinal dis- turbance. Chronic bronchitis is also very common in workers in dusty occupations, mill- puff upholsterers, bakers, colliers, etc., and is often associated with chronic alcoholism. Morbid Anatomy.—The mucous membrane of the bronchi in chronic bronchitis is smooth, shining, and of a slaty grey or dark purple colour, a brighter colour being often present in post-raortem examinations, due to an acute exacerbation which so often causes the fatal result. Closer examination will show the open mouths of the dilated mucous glands like pin- point depressions. The mucous membrane is often thrown into folds by the accumulation of cellular structures beneath the basement membrane, and the epithelium consists either of the single layer of flat germinating cells or heaped-up collections of transitional cells, fully formed ciliated epithelium being generally absent. The smaller bronchi are failed witli sticky yellow muco-purulent secretion which oozes from the open mouths of the tubes on section of the lung. In uncomplicated chronic bronchitis the muscular coat is hypertrophied, and the tunica adventitia thickened from cellular inflltration, which also extends to the peri- bronchial and peri-vascular fibrous tissue. The cartilages are usually atrophied, or have dis- appeared entirely. In old pjitients they may undergo calcareous degeneration. The lungs are usually emphysematous, and in very chronic cases with dilatation of the bronchi the muscular coat may have disappeared. The mucous mem- brane may be ulcerated in foetid bronchitis and in bronchiectasis. The lymphatic glands are in- variably enlarged and pigmented, and frequently caseating. The heart, and especially the right ventricle, is generally dilated ; and the liver, , spleen, and kidneys are chronically congested, ! and the seat of filtroid degeneration. I Symptoms.—The symptoms vary consideraVily in different cases, but mainly resemble in ! character those of the acute form, especially modified by coexistent affections. In the milder forms of the common winter cough of old people at first the only complaint is cough with muco- purulent expectoration and slight dyspnoea on exertion, or in the early morning, unless there is marked coexistent emphysema. There is no pain or fever in the earlier stages. With the return of warmer weather the attack passes oft' comijletely, only to return with the recurrence of cold and changeable climate. The affection may continue in this manner for several years, but gradually dyspnoea on the slightest exertion is noticed as the attacks increase in severity, and the cough, instead of disappearing during the summer months, tends to persist all the year round, the incessant cough and purulent expectoration disturbing the patient's sleep, the patient's health and strength being gradually undermined. In the young and in healthy adults the milder cases generally subside gradually with complete convalescence ; but when once chronic bronchitis has become pronounced and well established, the pathological structural changes wdiich arise render complete recovery scarcely possible. PuYSicAL Signs.—The chest may be moder- ately distended without alteration in shape ; but patients with old-standing chronic bronchitis are almost invariably emphysematous, in which case the chest is considerably distended and barrel-shaped; the respiratory movements are limited, expiration being prolonged; the per- cussion-note is hyper-resonant and clear; the breath-sounds are hai'sli and loud ; deep-toned rhonchi, high-pitched squealing, piping sibilus, large and small rales, or bubbling, according to the varying conditions of the tubes, are con- stantly to be heard, while finer crepitation may often be found at the bases. The expectoration is very variable in quantity, being muco-purulent, and sometimes streaked