DIPHTHERIA 393 non-motile bacillus. Tlie bacilli arc arranged in gronps of parallel pairs, the pairs having their bases in apposition. When stained it does not present a beaded appearance. This microbe does not vary with its culture medium to such a degree as the diphtheria bacillus. It is not pathogenic to animals. When grown in neutral broth it renders the medium alkaline from the first, whereas the diphtheria bacillus renders it firstly acid and then alkaline. This bacillus has been called Hoftmann's, the short diphtheria, and the pseudo-diphtheria bacillus. Bacten'oloffical Invest ii/ation. — A bacterio- logical examination for diagnostic purposes is made as follows :—With a sterilised cotton-wool .swab, a loop of platinum wire, or, better still, the flattened end of a platinum rod, a small portion is removed from the edge of the exuda- tion ; or if none be present a scraping is made of the mucous surface. The swab or rod is then smeared slightly over the surface of sterilised blood-serum in a test-tube. The tube is placed in an incubator at 37" C. Colonies of diphtheria or of Hoffmann's bacilli can be seen in twelve to twenty-four hours as an opaque white streak or discrete points. Growths due to other organisms appear later, and are usually cither transparent or not white. Occasionally, however, colonies resembling those of the diphtheria bacillus are produced by other organisms, so that no re- liance as to the nature of the gi'owth can be placed upon a naked-eye examination. As soon as it is convenient after the growth has become visible it should be microscopically examined. The bacilli may be stained by Gram's method, or with a solution of carbolic methylene blue, or other aniline dyes. Inoculation Effects. — The causa causa-as of diphtheria is the Klebs-Loefiler bacillus. It can be cultivated from the exudation in the vast majority of cases that are clinically diphtheria. When inoculated upon the mucous membranes of certain animals (e.;/. guinea-pigs) it sets up an inflammation which may be membranous. When inoculated subcutaneously a local exudation results, around which there is extensive a^lema. Necrosis of the tissues follows, and the animal wastes and dies in a few days. After death pleurisy, broncho-pneumonia, haimorrliage into the adrenal bodies, and degeneration of nerves and muscles arefound. In cases wheredeath is delayed beyond four or five days the animal has paralysis of the extremities. If the diphtheria bacillus is grown in broth under certain conditions, it pro- duces in the broth bodies which by infiltration can be freed from bacilli. These bodies, accord- ing to Sidney Martin, consist chiefly of albu- moses, with an organic acid. 7'o.rin.—Collec- tively these bodies may be inchided under the term diphtheria - toxin. When the toxin is injected into a rabbit or guinea-pig it gives rise to, amongst other symptoms, paralysis of the extremities and trunk. Microscopicalh' there are degenerative changes in the nerves and nuiscles similar to those found in luunan beings who have died of diphtherial paralysis. From the blood and tissues (especially the spleen) of patients who have died of dijjhtheria similar toxic bodies can be extracted. It has already been stated that the diphtheria bacillus is as a rule confined to the local exudation. Hence the inference from the experimental evidence is that the bacillus manufactures toxic products locally, and these being absorbed into the system give rise to the degenerative changes so commonly met with. Martin, however, believes that the bacilli produce locally a ferment, which, being absorbed, acts on the proteids of the tissues and gives rise to the poisonous alluunoses. Problems in the Fatlioloijy of the Disease.— There are three points concerning the pathology of diphtheria which are worthy of notice, (i.) With respect to the acceptance of the Klebs- Loejfier bacillus as the essen tial cause of diphtheria, it proves a stumbling-block to some persons that it is occasionally found not only in morbid conditions of the fauces and mouth other than diphtheria, but also in healthy throats. There- fore, they say, this bacillus cannot be the cause of diphtheria. To agree with these objectors, however, one would have to ignore absolutely the whole of the experimental evidence in its favour, which is not only exceedingly strong in itself, but has directly led up to the most successful method of treating the disease hitherto discovered. In order to its development the bacillus doubtless requires the influence of one or more favourable conditions, without which it possibly will not manifest any pathogenic action whatsoever. But, on the other hand, let all these conditions be i:)resent without the liacillus, and there will be no diphtheria. (ii.) Another question of interest relates to the variation in virulence of the bacillus. The study of epidemic diphtheria jDoints to the con- clusion that the variation may be extreme, and that in the course of an epidemic it may be exalted from a low to a high degree of malig- nancy and vice versa. Roux and Yersin suc- ceeded in attenuating the vii-ulence of the bacillus by cultivating it in broth for a month at a temperature of 39-5° C. They were unable to restore the virulence when it had been com- pletely destroyed ; but wiien the virulence was only partially lost it could be regained by in- jecting into animals the streptococcus erysipelatis along w-ith the attenuated bacilli. It has been suggested by more than one bacteriologist that Hoffmann's bacillus is an attenuated form of the Klebs - Loeffler organism. But no convincing evidence of this suggestion has hitherto been I brought forward. In order to prove that the former has really been converted into the latter organism it is required that from the broth in which subcultures of the changed bacillus have been grown the characteristic toxin of diphtheria