122 CHOLERA, EPIDEMIC The duration of the disease in fatal cases varies greatly. A few die from four to eight hours after the commencement of the attack, more from twelve to forty-eight hours. The algid state seldom lasts beyond the second day. Those who survive this, die in the typhoid stage from the fourth to the tenth day. After the tenth day recovery is to be expected. Analysis of Symptoms Diarrhoea.—The watery, pale stools of cholera are alkaline in reaction, have a specific gravity of 1005 to 1010. The dried deposit from a pint of cholera dejections was found by Parkes to weigh only 4 grains. Examined microscopically, the stools are found to contain intestinal epi- thelium, disassociated or in small flakes, with granular matter resulting perhaps from the dis- integration of epithelium along with mvicous corpuscles. Before the period of reaction the stools will be found to contain flakes of mucus containing commas in almost pure cultivation. In the reaction stage these are less readily to be detected, other micro-organisms then abound, and blood cells, not common in the first stage, are now frequently present. Chemically, the rice-water evacuations contain a small quantity of albumin, chloride of sodium, and carbonate of ammonium ; occasionally, but very seldom, traces of urea. The diarrhoea is the primary and constant symptom of cholera. In what has been inap- propriately called cholera sicca, in which there is neither diarrhoBa nor vomiting but rapid collapse, the bowels are after death found dis- tended with rice-water fluid, transuded but not evacuated. The bowel in this dangerous form of the malady is paralysed. Whether the diarrhoea be caused by the pres- ence of the bacillus in the mucous membrane, abstracting from the blood the liquid necessary for its growth, or by a toxin formed by the bacillus, has not been ascertained. Diarrhoea is only a symptom, it is true, but it is a symptom producing other symptoms, formidable in itself and in its results. The drain of fluid from the system causes inspissa- tion of the blood; this in turn leads to the absorption of water from all the tissues. Hence the sinking of the eyes, the pinching of the features, the corrugation of the skin of the fingers. This draining off" of the watery part of the blood, if not the sole, is an important factor in the arrest of the urinary secretion. The blood does not contain the material for the secretion of urine, but as contributory cause of suppression we must reckon the diminished pressure of the blood in the kidney, from the enfeebled action of the heart. But this cardiac failure is itself, again, partly the result of the thickening of the blood caused by the diarrhasa. The urine is not the only secretion arrested. The secretion of tears, sweat, saliva, and, in most cases, of milk is arrested. We thus see that on the diarrhoea many of the other symptoms of cholera depend. As a rule, when attempts have been made to remedy the evils caused by the loss of fluids, by means of injection of saline solutions into the veins, the rapid improvement of the patient's condition has shown how essen- tially dependent many of the prominent symp- toms of the disease are on the dehydration of the blood ; but the fluids injected in this way are rapidly carried off" again by the bowel, and the patient is within a short time in the condition in which he was before the fluid was injected. Vomit.—The vomit of cholera is pale or whey- like, alkaline from carbonate of ammonia, and seldom, and only accidentally, contains the comma bacillus. Among the toxic substances isolated from cultivations of the cholera bacillus no emetic principle has been discovered, so far as we know. Yet such a principle is probably present. 'Temperature and Circulation.—The algidity of cholera is to be ascribed to the depressed action of the heart, and also to the thickening of the blood impeding the circulation, especially in the extremities. The depressed action of the heart itself is not the result of a single cause. Brieger has isolated a toxic product of the cholera bacillus which has the effect of lowering the temperature and depressing the heart's action, but it is impossible to doubt that the action of this toxin in producing cardiac depression and lowering of temperature must be inci-eased by the thickened condition of the blood. Another cholera toxin has been isolated which causes cramps and muscular tremors. We are therefore justified in the present state of know- ledge in looking upon the muscular cramps as wholly or in part the result of the cholera toxin. There is a still more important phenomenon for which we have no satisfactory explanation, namely, the increased temperature of the in- terior of the abdominal cavity. This appears to be a pretty constant concomitant of algidity. The higher the rectal temperature, the greater the danger. On the approach of death the temperature of the whole body has been found to rise, and it generally continues to rise after death. A fall of the internal temperature is a favour- able sign, and is usually followed by an increase of the surface heat. When reaction is favour- able the temperature in the axilla remains normal or moderately elevated. In the typhoid stage it rises above tlie normal. Respiration.—The carbonic acid in the expired air is red^iced from the impeded circulation in the capillaries of the lung. Tlie Urine.—'Yhe causes of the suppression of urine in cholera have been already considered. Prophylaxis Knowing the sources of the virus, the media