240 CORNEA (Keratitis profunda).—A grey opacity appears in the deeper layers of the cornea near its centre ; it consists of niaculfe or stria;; sometimes tlie centre of the opaque area is comparatively clear, the opacity forming a not very dense ring round the centre; the striae are generally seen in the earlier stages, and when the opacity is fully developed they disappear. There is frequently deposit on the back of the cornea, and evidence of iritis or irido-cyclitis, and vessels may grow into the cornea from the periphery. At its height the condition of the eye much resembles the interstitial keratitis of hereditary syphilis. There is generally not a great amount of irrita- tion ; the attack lasts a month or six weeks, and passes off, leaving a certain amount of per- manent opacity. The patients are generally beyond middle life, and only one eye is as a rule attacked. The causes of the disease are obscure : it has been ascribed to cold, to rheumatism, to malai'ia ; many of its subjects suffer from defective ter- minal circulation, cold hands and feet, dyspeptic troubles, and constipation. The local treatment should be protective glasses or a bandage; hot fomentations and atropine, 4 gr. to the ounce of vaseline; the general treatment should be in accordance with the requirements of each case. Striated Keratitis.—The appearance of grey lines in the corneal substance occurs in a variety of conditions; delicate grey lines are often seen extending at right angles to a wound in the corneal substance, whether the whole cornea has been cut through or not; they are sometimes present extending from the area of a deep ulcer ; they occur in some cases of iritis and irido- choroiditis, and are not unfrequently the earliest form taken by the opacity in interstitial kerat- itis ; they are sometimes double-contoured, sug- gesting a tube containing an opalescent fluid. They are said to be sometimes caused by a com- press which has been worn for a long time. Their most common appearance is after cataract extraction, extending from the wound at the upper periphery of the cornea downwards into the substance of the cornea; they are more common where the cornea has been much bruised during the operation, but a certain amount of striation is present after nearly every extraction. Striated keratitis is at most a temporary phenomenon ; it either disappears entirely after a short time, or gives way to some moi-e per- manent general haziness. The explanation of the occurrence of the lines is not simple; they probably have more than one cause; there is 110 structure in the normal cornea which corre- sponds with them, but certain tubes can be made to appear in the cornea by injecting be- tween its lamellse mercury or air under pressure, Bowman's tubes. Some of the opaque lines are to be explained by the natural formation of Bowman's tubes, by the pressure of fluids in inflammatory conditions of the parts adjacent to the cornea. They have been formed experi- mentally by making sections of the cornea in rabbits, and have been then found to be caused by wrinkling of Descemet's membrane ; the kind which follows cataract extraction may have this cause. Leprosy sometimes attacks the cornea; nodules form generally at the margin of the cornea, asso- ciated with iritis; they generally break down, leading to loss of the eye; the cornea is also sometimes ansesthetic. Sclerosing Keratitis. — A relapsing, per- sistent, subacute inflammation of the ciliary region involving the adjacent part of the cornea, and sometimes attended by iritis. The recur- rences generally occur in fresh places, and the general effect of each attack is to leave conical or triangular areas of opacity at the margin of the cornea with the base directed oxitwards; these areas are sometimes very dense and blue- white in colour, and approximate in appearance to the sclerotic. The cause is unknown. The local treatment should be rest, fomentations, and atropine. Calcareous Film of the Cornea (Transverse Calcareous Band).—This is a form of degenera- tion which occurs in the superficial layers of the cornea, in the shape of a broad band or oval patch of dirty grey colour lying in the part of the cornea that is commonly exposed. It lies just beneath the epithelium, and consists mainly of fine calcareous granules united with hyaline substance. Its development is very slow; it starts on each side of the cornea, and gradually progresses towards the centre. It occurs mostly in eyes that have been lost from old irido-cyclitis, but is occasionally met with in old people whose eyes are otherwise healthy. Treatment.—If the eye is otherwise good the film may be removed by scraping and afterwards treating the cornea as if it had been injured. Congenital Opacities of the Cornea.—In one variety of congenital opacity the cornea appears to have the structure of sclerotic, the opaque sclei'a seeming to extend for a certain distance into the cornea, and only gradually thinning into clear cornea. Such eyes are often microph- thalmic; the condition may be seen in more than one member of the family. In other cases a fine ring of opacity is seen just inside the corneal margin; it has the same appearance and situation as the arcus senilis (arcus juvenilis). Other opacities are due to foetal inflammation, such as interstitial opacities of various kinds. In congenital hydrophthalmos the whole cornea is sometimes faintly milky. The arcus senilis is a non-inflammatory de- generation of the cornea, appearing as a grey line at the upper and lower parts, and some- times meeting at the outer and inner; it is densest above and below, and is separated from