DIPHTHERIA 399 Intubation and Trachcotomi/.—In this country intubation in diphtheria has never attained to tlie favour that has been accorded it in the United States and on the Continent, where since the introduction of the antitoxin treatment it has almost superseded tracheotom3^ This dififer- ence in practice is very largely due, in the writer's opinion, partly to the fact that abroad many cases are intubated which here are not operated upon in any way, and indeed recover without any need for operation, and partly to the fact that the patients are brought under the antitoxin treatment at an earlier stage of the disease than in this country. The advan- tages urged on behalf of intubation are that a cutting operation is avoided, together with all the risks of tracheotomy (emphysema, hfemor- rhage, bi'oncho-pneumonia, etc.); that no anjcs- thetic is reipiired ; that especially if repeated it acts mechanically in clearing out the larynx by the removal of membrane, and that its results are more successful tiian those of tracheotomy. The probable cause of the last statement is alluded to above. On the other hand, an in- tubated child must never be left out of immedi- ate reach of a medical man ; the tube may be suddenly coughed out, and the urgent symptoms of obstruction recur; or the tube may become blocked while in the larynx. The nurse is usually (juite helpless should either of these events happen. The tube sometimes sets up ulceration of the larynx. Bungling and forcible attempts to introduce the tube will damage the larynx, and cause false passages. The writer has seen all these accidents except the last. AVith respect to difHculty in execution there is little, if anj', diiTerence between intubation and tracheotomy. The writer's experience leads him to formulate the following propositions :— In a considerable proportion of cases intubation is either inadmissible or inexpedient. It is admissiV)le in two classes of case—those in which the patients, when brought for treatment, are in extremis from suffocation, and those where there is very abundant faucial membrane. It is inexpedient in toxic cases in which there is little or no hope of the patient's recovery. Here tracheotomy should be performed to ease the patient's last moments. Otherwise intuba- tion should be practised. The intubation tube should be taken out at the end of two days. If it has then to be replaced it should be taken out at the end of another two days, and if necessary again replaced. If, at the end of two more days, withdrawal of the tube still leaves the patient in distress, it is best to tracheo- tomise. In cases where the tube is repeatedly coughed out it is not advisable to intubate more than six or seven times. Lastly, if there is evidence of extension of membrane below the larynx, tracheotomy is to be preferred to in- tubation. It is stated by some writers that membrane is coughed up through the intubation tube, but tiie writer has never met with such a case. None of the cases he has had under observation, in •which there was membrane below the larynx, have done well with intuba- tion, but have come sooner or later to tracheo- tomy. In private practice tracheotomy is certainly to be preferred to intubation ; and the operation should be resorted to earlier than in hospital practice, where both operator and in- struments are at hand for any emergency. For the details of the two operations, etc., the reader is referred to the articles dealing with them. (See " Intubation," " Tracheotomy.") General, Dietetic, and Medicinal Treatment.— During the acute stage of diphtheria the patient should be kept at rest in bed, and he should not be allowed to get up for some days after the disappearance of the local exudation, and only then if the circulation is normal and there is no sign of paralysis. Cases that present symptoms of toxfemia (albuminuria, vomiting, frequent and irregular pulse, etc.) require most careful watching. Serious and even fatal attacks of syncope may be induced by allowing a patient to get up and walk about too soon. Caution has to be exercised in letting the patient even sit up in bed. The diet calls for no special remark. It should be such as the patient can take with comfort, frequently administered in small quantities at a time. Repeated vomiting at any stage of the disease is best met by rectal feeding. Alcohol and strychnine are useful in the late but not the early cardiac failure, more especially in attacks of syncope. The antemia, too, often following the disease usually calls for iron in some form. Fresh air and sunshine are very necessary for rapid convalescence. At tlie first sign of paralysis (nasal voice, regurgitation of food through the nose, etc.) the patient, if up, should be again confined to bed. If after a week or ten days the palsy remains limited, he may be allowed up again, but should be warned against or prevented from exerting himself. Any advance of the paralysis is an indication for further rest. In fact, complete rest is essential in all cases where the palsy is at all widely spread. In such cases all excite- ment {e.g. visits from relations and friends) should as far as possible be avoided. When the respiratory muscles are affected the foot of the bed should be raised to allow the bronchial secretion to escape into the mouth, and to prevent the saliva trickling through the larynx into tlie bronchi, otherwise the lungs become blocked to such a degree as to lead to a fatal result. Extract of belladonna, \ grain every three or four hours, is recommended in order to diminish the amount of these secretions. A cough din-ing swallowing is always an indication to administer nourishment by means of a tube passed through the nose into the stomach. IsolationandDisinfection.—The patient suffer-