DISINFECTION 412 of a spray and not a gargle is to be recom- mended. Dr. Sanger's colour experiments prove conclusively that a gargle does not come in contact with the walls of the pharynx or the tonsils, and can act on the soft palate and arch of the fauces only. When convalescence is complete, and the danger of infection considered past, it is advisable that the patient, before returning to his family, should, especially if he have been in a hospital or in a room with other patients, be sent away for a week or two where he may breathe a pure air and eliminate the last traces of infection. Attendants who, though insusceptible to scarlatina,, or not having contracted diphtheria, are sensible of some degree of sore throat, indicat- ing resisted and abortive infection, should use the spray to their throats and pass a week or so in a pure air, as much as possible out of doors, in the same manner, to rid themselves of the germs which, though they have had little effect on them, may commmiicate the disease to others more susceptible. Special Considerations.—As with the precau- tions to be taken to prevent the spread of infec- tion during the illness of the patient, so with the subsequent disinfection of the room, bedding, etc., a certain latitude may be allowed accoi'd- ing to the nature of the disease. With measles and whooping-cough, the microbes of which perish very soon, a thorough cleaning of the room, washing of linen, blankets, etc., and ex- posure of beds, pillows, and unwashable curtains, carpets, etc., such as is familiar to housekeepers as a " spring cleaning," suffices. With enteric fever no more is needed except for bedding and linen that have been in contact with the patient; but beds and mattresses should be destroyed i-ather than disinfected, since they are sure to be more or less saturated with the fiuid and mostly involuntary evacuations of the patient. In puerperal fever, a septic disease, the contagion of which maintains an extra-corporeal existence, and is most persistent, the destruction of the bedding is imperative, for the neglect of this precaution may cause the death of a parturient woman occupying the bed even after the lapse of a year or longer. In diphtheria, scarlatina, and smallpox it is highly advisable to substitute for pocket hand- kerchiefs pieces of soft cotton or linen rags, which should be burnt as often as used, or the Japanese paper handkerchiefs if they are to be had. Aftei- Death.—Infection does not cease with death. The number of well - authenticated instances of the propagation, sometimes wide- spread, of smallpox, diphtheria, scarlatina, typhus, etc., through contact, direct or indirect, with the bodies of persons dying of those diseases is so great that much more stringent legislation would be a public benefit. At any rate, the body should, so soon as possible, be put into the coffin, bedded in some disinfecting absorbent, the best being probably Hartmann's sublimated wood-wool, or, in rougher practice, sublimated sawdust; " formalin " might be sprayed over all. The coffin should be placed in an empty room, covered with its lid, though so soon as the first signs of cadaveric change appear it should be screwed down, and burial (or crema- tion) follow at the earliest possible date. There is no excuse for " last looks," and to allow a "last kiss" is morally criminal. When an empty room is not available, or for other reasons the medical attendant deems the retention of the corpse a danger to the health of the inmates of a house, he can obtain an order from a magistrate for its removal to the mortuary, and its burial from thence ; and it is much to be desired that public mortuaries were largely and voluntarily used for the deposit of corpses between death and burial, irrespective of social position, of accommodation, or the nature of the disease. The practice in Munich and the arrangements of the magnificent mortuary of that city, where rich and poor alike " lie in state " mid surround- ings suggestive rather of a sacred edifice than of the dead-house and post-mortem room, well deserve study and imitation. It bears no re- semblance to that " chamber of horrors" the Morgue at Paris, the purpose of which, to preserve unclaimed bodies as long as possible, is entirely different. Disinfection of Room, etc. — The common method of aerial disinfection by means of sulphur is very inadequate. Whatever efficacy it appears to have is doubtless due to the thorough and prolonged influx of fresh air which follows its use. The object of disinfection is to kill the germs adhering to the walls and floors, accumulating in the dust deposited on ledges, cornices, and furniture, and lodging in the folds of woollen fabrics and the stuffing of bedding, chairs, etc., just the places where they are least accessible to gaseous agents. The first step is to have all washable fabrics plunged in boiling water for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes; and mattresses, beds, bolsters, pillows, and, if such have unfortunately been left in the room, all quilts, carpets, rugs, and the stuffing of easy-chairs, packed up for transmission to the disinfecting station. Next, the floor should be well washed, in fact swilled, with 1 in 1000 sublimate solution, care being taken to saturate the interspaces between the boards, and the walls sprayed with the same by means of a garden syringe or other apparatus, or simply washed down with a cloth or mop. The ledges over the door and window frames and the wood-work of the sashes should be washed with a cloth dipped in the solution, and the furniture treated in the same way. The ceiling should then be limewashed, special care being paid to ornamental cornices, roses, and other decorative