330 DIABETES MELLITUS favour the development of diabetic coma when the patient is suffering from a severe form of the disease, and when the urine gives a marked reaction with perchloride of iron. Prolonged constipation is probably a predisposing cause, and numerous cases are on record in which various complications and also surgical opera- tions have appeared to be exciting causes. The symptoms of diabetic coma often com- mence with lassitude, epigastric pain, naixsea, and occasional vomiting. In otlier cases short- ness of breath is the earliest symptom, and it has occasionally preceded other symptoms for several days. Headache may occur at the onset. Often the patient is anxious, restless, or excited at first, then di'owsiness gradually develops and passes into coma. The pulse becomes rapid and feeble, and Lepine regards rapidity of the pulse as an important early sign of commencing coma. Dyspna-a is a prominent feature in the majority of cases, and the breath- ing has a peculiar panting or sighing chai'acter; the number of respirations per minute is often only slightly increased or even normal, and the dyspnoea is often indicated by deep inspiration and deep expiration, rather than by much in- crease in the frequency of respiration. This peculiar dyspnoea is desci'ibed by Kussmaul as air-hunger. The bowels are generally con- stipated. The skin becomes pale and cold; and in many cases there is slight cyanosis of the nose, lips, ears, hands, and feet. The tem- jjerature is generally subnormal, 95째-97째 F.; in a few cases it rises at the last to 102째-104째 F. The breath has usually a peculiar smell, some- what like chloroform, and acetone has been found in the expired air. This smell is often detected for some time before the onset of coma. The acidity of the urine is increased, but the quantity of urine and the amount of sugar excreted usually diminish with the onset of comatose symptoms. The urine, like the breath, has a peculiar " chloroform" smell (acetone). A trace or small quantity of albu- men is usually present (according to some writers invariably present) in the urine in the common vai'iety of diabetic coma. Sometimes the urine is free from albumen up to the onset of comatose symptoms ; but in other cases a trace of albumen is present for some time before coma develops. In 20 consecutive cases of diabetic coma the writer found a trace or small quantity of albumen in the urine in every case. According to Ktilz, casts are always present in the urine in the common form of diabetic coma, and he believes the appearance of casts to be a A'aluable premonitory sign of the onset of coma. In 17 consecutive cases of diabetic coma the writer found them always present. When a small amount of a dense yellowish-white deposit appears exactly at the bottom of the Tirine glass, and when this deposit consists of casts, he believes that coma nearly always follows. The casts in diabetic coma ai'e finely granular or hyaline, and are pi-esent in enormous numbers. The urine in diabetic coma usually gives a dark brownish-red coloration with perchloride of iron (Gerhardt's reaction). Acetone can also be detected. The amount of ammonia is much increased, and according to Stadelmann ^-oxybutyric acid is always present. The alkalinity of the blood is said to be much decreased. The blood always decolorises an alkaline methylene blue solution as already described. The knee-jerks are usually absent (absent in 20 out of 23 cases). The coma often becomes complete; in other cases the patient, though semi-comatose, can be roused almost up to the last. When once well- marked symptoms of coma have developed, death occurs within forty-eight hours. The description just given is that of the common form of diabetic coma (Kussmaul's variety), but there are two rare sub-varieties. (1) The alcoholic form. At the onset the patient is very excited, and behaves like a drunken man. The pulse is quick, coma develops, and soon tei-minates fatally. Such cases have been mistaken for alcoholic intoxica- tion. The urine gives the reaction with per- chloride of iron, the breath has the "acetone" smell, but dyspnoea is absent or slight. (2) Diabetic collapse (described by Dreschfeld and Frerichs). The patient suddenly becomes drowsy, the extremities and face cold and livid, the pulse quick and small, and coma develops. The temperature sinks subnormal, the breath has not the "acetone"' smell, and the urine does not contain acetone or diacetic acid. Dreschfeld points out that this form of coma occurs chiefly in patients over 40, and often they are well nourished or stout. Dreschfeld and Frerichs believe that the symptoms are due to cardiac failure owing to degeneration of the cardiac muscle. Tlie Diagnosis of diabetic coma (in its common form) is easy, especially if the patient is known to have been suffering from diabetes for some time. If the patient be seen for the first time in the comatose state, then the diagnosis between diabetic coma and other forms of coma has to be considered. If the urine can be obtained, the presence of a large quantity of sugar, along with a high specific gravity, is sutticient to exclude most of the other causes of coma. The "acetone" smell of the breath, the perchloride of iron reaction in the urine, and the dyspnoea are also important indications in favour of diabetic coma. If the urine caimot be obtained, or if there should be any doubt as to the nature of the case, the methylene blue reaction obtained by examination of a drop of the patient's blood will definitely settle the diagnosis. In coma from fractured skull and other