265 CYSTOSCOPE, THE scopy) ; HEMATURIA {Differential Diinpiosis, Cysto!icope).—To examine the interior of the bladder visually without a cutting operation is no new idea. In 1805 Uozzini of Frankfurt devised and exhil)ited an instrument for this purpose, which, liowever, was found to be quite inadequate because of insufficient illumination. Desmoreau, in 1854, introduced a cystoscope, which, in 1865, was further elaborated by Dr. Cruise of Dublin. These and all other instru- ments prior to 1877 may be considered the first stage of the cystoscope, as the light for illumina- tion was external to the bladder, but in that year Dr. Max Nitze of l>erlin introduced the platinum loop instrument with the light internal, which, although it had various objections, and was soon condennied because of its cumbrous size and defective light, initiated the second stage of the cystoscope or light internal idea, and led up to the more perfect instrument of to-day. Not until 1887, however, did surgeons find an instrument worthy of a place in their armamen- tarium, when, for the first time, the " incandes- cent lamp" cystoscope was introduced. This instrument has been variously modified, but the Leiter cystoscope, after the model of Mr. Hurry Fen wick, serves excellently for thorough exami- nation of the bladder. The Instrument.—Two forms of the cystoscope —the anterior and piosterior—are in use, but in practice the former is alone necessary. It re- sembles a sound in shape, and consists of the beak, the shaft, and the ocular portion. The beak is hollow, contains the lamp used for illumi- nation, and has a window through which the light is emitted. From the lamp two insulated wires pass along the interior of the shaft to the ocular poi'tion, where tliey are connected with the electrodes of a battery, the source of electro- motive force for light. The shaft is hollow and contains a telescope. At the junction of the shaft and beak, in line with the window in the beak, there is a prism which refracts the rays of light from the object illuminated on to the end of the telescope, and therefore into line with the ol)server's eye, so that the olq'ect is brought into view. On the rim of the ocular portion, upon the same aspect as the window and prism, there is a knob which indicates their position, so that as the instrument is moved to and fro, or turned round within the bladder, we can determine the part of the bladder wall which we examine. When using the instruuK.-nt it is focussed by withdrawing it from, or approaching it to, the object under examination until the best defini- tion is got. It is necessary to remember that the image is inverted. With the anterior c3-sto- scope the whole surface of the bladder can lie seen, but naturally the most difficult portion to bring into view is that inunediatel}' around the urethral opening. A suitable battery, provided with a rheostat, is that fii;ured in Schall's cata- logue No. 1192. To vse t/ie C'f/gtoscojje. — The most careful aseptic precautions are re(juired, just as in the use of other bladder instrumentation. Tiie cystoscojjc cannot be boiled without injury, and nuist therefore l)e purified by steeping it for a time in carbolic acid or lysol lotion. The other usual precautionary measures to avoid rigors must also be adojited. The pain during exami- nation is no greater than that catised by sound- ing, and it is only in exception;d cases that anaesthesia is required, but an aniesthetic may be exhibited in nervous patients or in those with sensitive bladders. In the female, from motives of delicacy, an anfesthetic may be necessary. In addition to these general measures there are three essentials for examination :— 1. The nrethra nnist be of sufficient calilii'e to easily admit the instrument. 2. The bladder must be capable of holding at least six ounces of fluid. 3. The fluid in the bladder must lie trans- parent. Method of Examination.—The urine is drawn oft' with, by preference, a red rubber catheter. If it be clear—no blood or pus—from 6 to 12 ounces of warm aseptic solution are injected, but if need be the bladder is first washed out that the injected fluid may remain transparent. This should be done as gently as possible to avoid luemorrhage, which might rapidly cause the fluid to be coloured, so that the examination would be difficult, although it is very rarely impossible from this cause. The cytoscope is now introduced, the circuit being oj^en, and care taken that the beak is completely within the bladder before it is closed. The circuit having been closed, the observer's eye is applied to the ocular portion, and an endeavour made to detect an air bubble, wdiich is almost certainly present at the highest point of the fluid. This is seen as a shimmering globule, and indicates the position of the instrument—gives, so to speak, a land- mark from which we can proceed methodically to examine the whole bladder wall. The normal bladder wall has a pale, pinkish-white colour, with small but distinct blood-vessels ramifying on the surface. The pallor varies in degree proportionately to the distension. Bladders vary in their appearance, and it is only after several have been examined that the observer can say whether a departure from the usual appearance is consistent with health or not. Daring the examination the beak of the instrument must not rest continuously on the wall, as it may become hot and do harm ; but this is not apt to occur if ordinary care be taken. If an abnormality be seen it must be closely examined to determine its exact signifi- cance. A projection is more readily seen than a superficial lesion. Dift'erent meridians are examined by advancing and withdrawing the instrument, but in particidar the margin of the urethral openin;/; neck of hi adder : and triijonc