DIGESTION AND METABOLISM 367 iieid in gout, and urea in various nepliritic con- ditions. Certain drugs may be excreted by way of the saliva, e.g. merciuy, iodine, bromine, etc. Blood or pus may be present in inflam- matory conditions of the mouth. Neiwoiis Meclianlsm of Secretion.—As a rule no saliva passes out fi'om a salivary fistula unless there be chemical or mechanical stimulation of the surrounding parts ; l)ut the mucous secretion seems to be constantly produced. In man, liowever, even the sight or smell of food may set up salivation. If the glands be active, stim\ilation of the special taste nerves, or the sensor^' nerves of the mouth, will at once pro- duce a flow of saliva. Mastication greatly increases the flow, owing to a more frequent stimulation of the nerve endings in the buccal mucous membrane liy the substances which are undergoing solution or maceration. Severe irritation of tlie stomach, as in emesis, will pro- duce salivation by means of the stimulation of the vagus. There are two great sets of nerve fibres passing to the salivary glands, cranial and sympathetic, both containing secretory fibres, and in addition the former contains vaso-dilator, and the latter vaso-constrictor fibres. The same nerves pass to the submaxillary and sub- lingual glands, while the jDarotid has a special supply. It is \mnecessary to describe in this place the course of these fibres ; suffice it to say that the cranial supply of the two first-men- tioned glands is the chorda tympani branch of tlie facial passing through the lingual branch of the fifth nerve, while that of the parotid is from the glosso-pharyngeal, through Jacobson's nerve, the small superficial petrosal, the otic ganglion, and the auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth nerve. All three glands have a supply from the cervical sympathetic. On stimulation of the cranial branches there is an abundant watery secreti(3n, poor in solids; while after stimulating the sympathetic, a sparse secretion, rich in solids and of stringy-like consistence, is produced. Keflex stimulation from the mouth under ordinary conditions aftects simply the cranial nerves, and interruptions in this reflex may occur, so that stimvdation of the gustatory nerves will not produce an eftect. During secretion the temperature of the saliva rises slightly above that of the blood in the c;irotid, and its pressure may also rise above that of the carotid. During active secretion an electrical current is produced in the gland, " the current of action." Nicotin and atropin pai-alyse secre- tion, the former attccting probably the nerve terminations around peripheral ganglia, the latter the final terminations around the secret- ing acini. The morjilioloiik-al changes in the salivari/ glands during secretion are of importance. It is customary to speak of the parotid as a true sei'ous gland, the sublingual as a mucous, and the sul)maxillary as a mixed gland ; but the human sublingual gland in all probability [jroduces a mixed secretion, because the crescentic cells lying at the pieriphery of the mucous acini are serous in type. Serous cells, as, for example, those of the parotid, contain at the beginning of salivary digestion numerous gramdes in the zone next the lumen of the acinus, rendering the cell cloudy in appearance while the peripheral part around the nucleus is clearer. Gradually these all)uminous granules are discharged, and the whole cell appears less opaque. The cells which secrete mucin appear clear and distended before discharge of their contents, while after secretion they are collapsed. Slowly mucinogen granules form for a little dis- tance around the nucleus, and then, on taking up water, these swell and distend the free part of the cell. In all, the type of secretion is the same, material being taken up and stored in the outer part of the cells, and then gradually transformed into mucin or albuminous material in the inner part and passed out as the true secretion of the acini. The j^art which the nucleus plays in the process is still doubtful. The amount of saliva secreted during the day varies on an average about h to 2 litres. There may be a marked increase, as, for example, after mercury, potassium iodide, pilocarpine, and many vegetable irritants which stimulate I the buccal mucous membrane. It may also be ! increased in many cases of nervous shock, while it is often greatly decreased in febrile conditions, and may be absent altogether in hysteria. Pathological changes in the salivarj' glands will be referred to under their special headings. Gastric Digestion Gastric Digestion.—Gastric digestion is in part a mechanical process, the food substances being- brought into a condition of finer subdivision by means of the movements of the stomach ; in part a chemical one, the finely subdivided food substances l)eing gradually converted into a more soluble foriu, and one therefore better fitted for absorption. Under normal conditions the process of digestion is imaeenmpanied by sensation. It is perhaps best to consider first the chemical process of digestion, prefacing this with a short account of the chemical conijwsition of the gastric Jidce. Gastric juice, as obtained from a case of gastric fistula in the human subject by Schmidt, was found to be a colourless transparent fluid of a specific gravity of I-0022-1 •002-1. On boiling it becomes fainth' opalescent, but yields no precipitate. Under normal conditions it appears not to be formed except as the result of stimu- lation ; but even in a state of hunger the stomach is rarely found quite empty. The ([uantity present varies considerably. Any- thing above 50 cc. may be regarded as patho- logical. Many observers hold that the small