465 EAR, EXAMINATION OF more firmly with the left hand. Politzer's bag is now inserted into the funnel-shaped outer ex- tremity of the catheter and inflation is com- menced. This must be done quietly and with the least possible jerking of the instrument; if the bag is provided with a valve it does not require to be removed from the catheter after each inflation. The air may be forced in as often as it is considered necessary. In order to remove the catheter from the Eustachian orifice the rotation is reversed, the point being carried downwards and inwards through a right angle. As the instrument is withdrawn from the nose, the hand must be carried down over the chin, so as to keep the point free from the posterior edge of the palate. DifficuItU's in the Use of the Catheter.—The elevation formed by the junction of the bony floor of the nose with the cartilaginous vestibule may prove an initial difficulty, unless the tip of the nose is tilted up in the manner already described. Spines or ridges growing from, or deviations of the septum, may obstruct the entrance of the catheter. When difficulties of this kind exist, they may be overcome by guid- ing the point of the instrument with the aid of the mirror and speculum, while in some cases it may be necessary to pass the catheter along the nasal fossa of the opposite side. Under these circumstances, stages 1 and 2 are the same as before, but instead of the point of the instru- ment being rotated downwards and outwards, as in stage 3, it is directed across the middle plane of the naso-pharynx by pressing the proximal end of the catheter outward against the ala of the nostril. It is better in such cases, however, to inflate the ear of the same side in the first instance, and then carry the point down- wards and inwards across the middle plane to the corresponding spot opposite. Difficulties may be met with in the naso-pharynx: the curve of the catheter may be too pronoiuiced to admit of proper rotation, so that one with a smaller curve must be substituted. Sometimes the movements of the soft palate interfere with the manipulation, when one or other of the follow- ing methods should be adopted in place of that already described. Stage 1 is the same as before, but instead of the point of the instrument being rotated inwards and then withdrawn until the con- cavity hitches against the septum as in stage 2, the instrument is withdrawn with its beak look- ing downwards until the concavity is arrested by the posterior edge of the hard palate; it is then rotated upwards and outwards through a quarter of a circle and a little more. On the other hand, some aurists prefer at the end of stage 1 to rotate the instrument at once upwards and outwards through a right angle, and then with the point against the outer wall of the naso-pharynx in Rosenmiiller's fossa, they with- draw it, until it rides over the Eustachian cushion and slips into the orifice. This pro- VOL. II cedure may prove somewhat disagreeable to the patient. Information derived from Inflation. — If auscultation be simultaneously practised much useful information is obtained. When the air enters the tympaiunu through a patent Eus- tachian tube, the sound produced is full and clear, and the impact is apparently close to the observer's own ear. If the tube is obstructed the sound is fainter and appears more distant. If there is fluid in the tympanic cavity a faint moist soTind may be detected, which must not be confounded with the louder gurgling noise produced at tlie pharyngeal opening of the tube. In the presence of a small dry perforation in the tympanic membrane the air may be heard whistling through it; sometimes, if the perfora- tion is a large one, there is almost a painful sensation produced in the surgeon's ear. If the perforation is associated with secretion in the tympanum, a moist bubbling sound is heard. After inflation, the hearing power must be again carefully tested, and the result recorded. Comjjlications residting from Inflation.—In some cases giddiness and syncope have been produced as the result of inflation by Politzer's method, while loss of consciousness accompanied by convulsions is a rare accident during cathe- terisation. Occasionally surgical emphysema has followed the use of the catheter, owing to abrasion of the mucous membrane by the point of the instrument. The greatest care should bo practised in keeping the catheters clean so as to avoid the risk of any infection. The silver instruments should be boiled, while the vulcanite ones may be kept constantly immersed in a solution of carbolic acid without being damaged. Choice between Folitzer's. Method and, the Eiistachian Catheter.—In the case of children the catheter is usually not employed. An objection may be expressed by adults to the use of this instrument, and, to obviate the dis- comfort which is frequently complained of by 23atients, some authorities cocainise the inferior meatus of the nose before its introduction. Politzer's method, or one of its modifications, may in the first instance be used, unless there is any distinct conti-a-indication. The existence of a cicatrix or an atrophic condition of the tympanic membrane contra-indicates the use of this method, as the forcible introduction of air may cause rupture of the membrane in these areas. More accurate information can be obtained by the use of the catheter with regard to the degree of obstruction in the tubes, while the amount of air introduced can also be regu- lated. In other cases again in which there is marked obstruction, it is the only method by which air can be successfully inflated and the tube rendered more patent. As both tympana are simultaneously inflated by Politzer's method, an unnecessary and even injurious strain may be thrown upon the healthy ear in cases where