DISINFECTION 411 never be closed. All windows on the staircase should be open day and night, and the doors and windows of other bedrooms during the day, as should the door into the garden, if any, and the front door also if kept on the chain. Special Considerations. — These anticipatory precautions may with advantage be taken in all cases of known or suspected infectious disease, but when its character is determined the subsequent steps for preventing the spread of the infection will be regulated as to both their nature and the stringency with wdiich they shall be enforced by the circumstances of the case. The medical man will have to take into account (1) the presence of susceptible persons, especially with regard to the age-incidence, and fatality of the disease ; (2) its degree of com- municability to susccj^tible persons and the danger to life involved; (3) the persistence or vitality of the microbes and their spores out of the body ; (4) the " ways and means" of infection. Thus (1) all persons who have not previously passed through an attack of scarlatina are susceptible, but the susceptibility and fatality is so far greater in childhood that adults over 20 or 30 years of age need not be taken much account of, and those past middle life may be looked on as insusceptible. (2) Measles is the most infectious of all diseases (except smallpox in an unvaccinated community), but the danger to life, except in infancy, is practically nil; while the fatality of diphtheria at all ages is greater than that of almost any other. (3) The infection of measles is evanescent, while those of scarlatina and of diphtheria are persistent to an extraordinary degree. (4) Enteric fever is spread almost exclusively by the fceces and urine, which, gaining access to water-supplies even after percolating many yards through the earth, may infect an entire community ; though in a spacious and w-ell-ordered sick-room the danger to the attendants and household is in- significant. On the other hand, the infection of scarlatina, diphtheria, or smallpox is with ordinary care easily confined to the house, though within it susceptible persons are with difficulty kept from contracting it. But, per contra, no one need be susceptible, at least after the first few days, to smallpox or diphtheria, for in revaccination we have the means of con- ferring immunity for many years, and j^rophy- lactic inoculation with diphtheritic antitoxin protects from infection for about a month, measures that should never be omitted on the appearance of either disease in a house. Economy of Sick-room.—During the coiu'se of the illness all linen when soiled or changed should be immediately immersed in a solution of " formalin," 1 part to 20 of water, or sub- limate 1 in 2000, or zinc chloride 1 in 2-5, in a glazed earthenware pan, such as is used for keejjing bread, and as soon as convenient they should be plunged for a quarter of an hour in a copper of boiling water. Before applying soap to the clothes it will be necessary to rinse and wring them out in clean water if sublimate or the zinc salt have been used, since these, especially the latter, form insoluble compounds with the fatty acids. With " formalin," which does not in the least interfere with the lather, this precaution is not needed, and a wooden or galvanised tub may be vised. Cups, plates, spoons, forks, etc., for the use of the patient should be kept and washed in the room, and on no account sent downstairs. All evacuations should be immediately well stirred with a 1 per cent solution of sublimate in the proportion of 2 oz. to the pint before being passed into the sewer or buried in the earth, luiless reserved for the inspection of the medical attendants in the open air, not in a closet or in a room. The urine is at least as infective as the fteces. The Attendants.—Persons in attendance on a patient suffering from smallpox, diphtheria, or scarlatina, and, of course, typhus—though this is not likely to be met with in private practice—should avoid all contact with sus- ceptible individuals, especially children. If this be impi-actica])le, as when the circumstances of the family preclude the engagement of professional nurses, and the wife or mother must take her turn with the patient and the other children, she should, as indeed should all nurses, wear only cotton dresses, and these changed twice a week at the least, while one that has been soiled by the excreta in enteric fever, or by the nasal and oral discharges in diphtheria or scarlatina, should be at once consigned to the disinfecting tub. She should have another dress hanging on the landing to put on in the house, leaving that she had been wearing behind in the room. She must keep her nails short, and after dipping her hands in the formalin solution (1 in 20), cleanse them with hot water and soap, using the nail-brush, before attending to the other children. It would be most desirable that her hair should be cut short enough to be frequently waslied, but if not it should be enclosed in a cotton cap while in the room, or a bathing-cap would be still better'. Convalescents.—After smallpox and scarlatina, so soon as recovery has well advanced, the person of the patient should be disinfected by frequent baths with hot water and soap, the hair cut short and the head washed with formalin followed b^- soap and water, soft soajj being preferable to hard. The throat in scarlatina and diphtheria should be sprayed with a weak solution of Liq. sod. chlorinata; or formalin or Liq. pot. perm, daily for several weeks, or so long as there is any redness, swelling, or relaxation. The use