455 EAR, EXAMINATION OF 6. Examination of the Ear by Infla- tion THROUOH 'I'HB EUSTACHIAN Tube 463 (1) Valsalva':^ Method . . .463 (2) PoUtxt's Method . . .463 (3) Injiation, throii<ih flie En Mar/nan 'C<itlietcr .... 464 1. Anatomy and I'hysiolocy.—The anatomical subdivision of the organ of hearing into three parts—the external, middle, and internal ear— furnishes the clinician with a satisfactory basis upon which to investigate the nature of the affection in a case of deafness. Impairment in hearing may be due to causes which exist in one or more of tiiese subdivisions or their adnexa, and the examination of the ear practically re- solves itself into determining in which of them the lesion exists. In estimating the prognosis, too, and in considering the amenability of tiie affection to treatment, this anatomical basis serves a useful purpose. For these reasons, therefore, a brief sketch of the anatomy of the ear and its more intimate connections forms an essential introduction to its clinical examina- tion. Tlbe external ear consists of the pinna or auricle and the external au(litorv meatus, the former collecting tiie air vibrations, the latter conducting them inwaixls towards the tympanic mem- brane. Tlie external auditory meatus is about one incli and a quarter in length, and has a general direction from without forwards, inwards, up- wards, and downwards, so that it is not a straight canal. It is made nj) of two portions, an outer cartilaginous part about half an inch long, wliich is movable upon the deeper osseous por- tion ; the latter measui'cs about three- quarters of an inch in lengtli. A well-marked angle or prominence exists in the antero-inferior wall of the osseous meatus and is the chief cause of the difficulty in the examination of the deeper ])arts. Beyond this point the lumen of the canal is again larger, and as its floor slopes downwards towards the tympanic membrane, a recess or sinus is formed in which foreign bodies may lodge. The mobility of the cartilaginous meatus is of the greatest assistance in the examination of the ear, as it permits of the canal being straight- ened to a considerable extent. Fortius purpose the auriclcmust bepulledupwardsandbackwards. The posterior wall of tlie osseous meatus has an intimate relation with certain of the mastoid cells, and sometimes when these cells are dis- eased perforation into the meatus occurs. The external auditory meatus is closed at its inner end by the tympanic memlirane or drumhead, which separates it from the middle ear. This membi-ane is formed of tlnve layers: tlic outer cuticular layer is continuous with the skin lining the meatus; the middle is fibrous, an extension from the periosteum, and consists both of fibres radiating from the centre towaixls the periphery and also of circular fibres near the cii'cumfer- ence ; the inner mucous layer is a continuation on to the deep surface of the membi'ane of the mucosa lining the tympanic cavity. The blood- vessels pass to the membrana tympani along the handle of the malleus and thence radiate outwards between its layers. Under the term middle ear there must be in- cluded the tympanic cavity, the Eustacliian tube, the mastoid antrum, and mastoid cells, all of which are in direct connnunication with each other and, througli the Eustacliian tube, with the naso-pharynx. llie tt/mpamim, f_i/in/ian/c cavity, drum, or ■middle ear jrroper is a small irregular space interposed between the external auditory meatus Si'ctioi] tlirousli tlifi uliole extent of tin' middle ear (Ban-). A, Antrum mas- toideum ; B, ma.'iti)id cells; C, inner surface of tympanic membranes at lower end of mannbriiim ; D, head of malleus : E, body of incus ; G, fossa for jugular bulb ; H, jiyrainidal partition of bone separating tlie cavity of tlin tympanum from tlie antrum inastoideum ; below the letter H a portion of tiie canal for the facial nerve is shown; I, dura mater ; K, chorda tympani nerve; L, tympanic mouth of Eustachian tube; M, isthmus of Eustacliian tube; N and P, caitilasinons walls of Eustachian tube; O, pharyngeal nioutli of Eustacliian tube. and the internal car or labyrinth, versed from without inwards by a It is tra- cliain of ossicles, the malleus, the incus, and the stapes. The malleus or outermost bone is firmly attached to the tympanic membrane; the stapes, the most internal of the three, is fixed througli its footplate to the membrane closing in the fenestra ovalis, which lies above the promontory at the upper and posterior part of the inner wall of the tympanum. Tlie incus is the intermediate bone in the chain. The sound vibrations taken up by the membrana tympani are in this way con- ducted across the cavity to the labyrinth. It is necessary to draw attention to that part of tlie middle ear whicli lies above the level of the upper margin of the tympanic membrane, speci- ally designated under the terms attic or rece^ms epitympanicuf. This recess contains the head of tiie malleus and the greater part of the incus. The roof of the space is the tegnicn tympani, a thin laver of bone, wliile its outer wall is formed