COLOTOMY 189 —in other words, a spur is procured. Unless this is obtained there will not be an artificial anus, but a fsccal fistula, beyond wliich f;eces pass into the distal portion of the gut. Thus the fsccal irritation is continued, and the opera- tion has failed in one of its objects. But when a proper spur is made, fteces pass through the inguinal opening only, and cannot enter the distal end of the intestine. (b) Right inguinal colotomy is performed by the same incision as on the left side, but this incision should be lower down and nearer to Poupart's ligament. The caecum is the region to be opened. Tile question of a spur can never arise. In cases demanding this operation, when the cjccum is very distended, Paid's tube is of very great service. The peritoneal cavity is opened, and the ctccuni is drawn into the wound and incised ; a small Paul's tube is at once inserted, and the ciiecum tied around it. To the free end of the glass tube a drainage tube is attached to carry the fceces aw-ay to some vessel remote from the wound. More stitches are used to fix the caecum to the edge of the wound. The Paul's tube is removed in a few days, when the ciecuni is well glued up to the surface. Paul's tube should be used in all parts of the large intestine when distension is great and it is necessary to open the gut at once. (c) Lmnbar colotomy can be performed in several ways, the direction of the incision and the mode of fixing up the gut being the main subjects of difference. The best incision for finding the colon is one with its centre half an inch posterior and mid- way between the anterior superior and posterior superior spines of the ilium, and midway between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. From tliis point Callisen used a vertical incision, but the length of this is limited, and it is not easy to work down upon the gut. More rooni is given in diflicult cases by Amussat's transverse, and Bryant's oblique incision. Half an inch behind tlie point described, and with its centre over the chosen spot, an incision (either transverse or obli(iue) is made, not longer than two inches, for otherwise the gut may be missed. The skin and cellular tissue are divided, and the muscles exposed and quickly divided till the fascia lumliorum is reached. This is opened, and the quadratus luraborum is exposed at its anterior edge. The edges of the wound are retracted, and the fat around the kidney and the fascia lumliorum is opened up. Then the gut will bulge into the wound, if it is dis- tended and has no mesentery. In straightforward cases it will be recognised to be the colon by its being uncovered by the peritoneum ; for if the peritoneum is opened, peritoneimi will be seen slu-rounding the gut, and the longitudinal bands, and the appendices with these, will also be visible. The colon is then brought to the surface, and stitched all round to the skin wound with inter- rupted sutures, which should pierce the muscular coat only, and not perforate the gut. But rarely is this actual presence of the colon made absolutely certain without opening the peritoneum, and the ditticulties arise from the position of the intestine in relation to its peri- toneal covering and length of mesentery. In what was formerly, Init erroneously, supposed to be the general position, the peritoneum covers only half or two-thirds of the circumference of the gut, leaving the posterior part vnicovered, with the intestine bound down to the loin. If na longitudinal band is seen, there is a danger of opening the small intestine, or even the stomach, imagining that the large intestine is being dealt with. I am therefore strongly of opinion that one should intentionally make a small incision in the peritoneum towards the inner part of tlie wound, and, by finding intestine with longi- tudinal bands or appendices epiploica;, become certain that the large intestine has been reached. In a second condition, where the colon is entirely surrounded by peritoneum and has a mesentery, it cannot be reached, nor can the longitudinal bands be seen, without first open- ing the peritoneal cavity. By the index finger inserted into the peritoneal cavity the gut can be felt and hooked up and sutured, as above described, into the loin wound. In a third condition the mesentery is very long, and the intestine may alter its position in the al)domen so as to be on the side opposite tO' that in which the incision is made. Prior in- vestigations failing, the external wound, and the peritoneum to a corresponding extent, must be enlarged so as to admit the hand, and a search is made for the splenic or for the hepatic fiexiu'e of the colon. From one of these points the colon can be found, and brought to and fixed to the skin wound. Right lumbar colotomy is performed in the same way and with the same difficulties, as the mesentery is usually fairly long, and therefore it is most imyjortant to open the parietal peri- toneum to make sure that the large intestine is being dealt with. ((/) In the infrequent operation of transverse colotomy the I'ectus muscle just above the um- l)ilicus is exposed and the posterior part of its sheath incised, and the peritoneum is picked up and divided, and then, as in inguinal colotomy, tlie large intestine must be found and recognised by its longitudinal bands, and then pulled for- ward and fixed outside the abdomen. The gut is secured to the skin by sutures through the peritoneal and muscular coats. The incision should always be large enough to admit the introduction of the hand into the abdomen, to make sure that the colotomy is being done above the ulceration or stricture. Then the lower part of the wound is brought together as in abdominal section, the upper two inches are treated as in inguinal colotomy, and through