233 CORNEA remains stationary or tends to lieal. The cornea around the ulcer is cloudy, there is intense circumcorncal injection ; a certain amount of iritis is present, the iris is blurred and swollen, enlarged blood-vessels may be seen on it, and posterior synechife may be formed. A hypopyon appears very early in the disease. The signs of irritation are very grciit in most cases, intense pain, intolerance of light, some fever, and a want of sleep ; in other cases the signs of irritation are not marked. If not checked the hypopyon increases and may till the anterior chamber, the ulcer spreads so that a considerable area of the cornea becomes in- volved, and this either yields to the intraocular pressure and perforates, or the ulcer penetrates deeply and the same result obtains. In some cases perforation is followed by general infection, ]>anophthalmitis, and total destruction of the I'VC, but, on the other hand, it sometimes marks the onset of a remission of most of the irritative signs, and is followed by a tendency towards healing. Abscess of the cornea is closely allied to the serpiginous ulcer, but it spreads in the substance of the cornea without tlestroying the surface; if it is seated in the superficial layers the greater part of its anterior wall will break down and form an ulcer, but it may invade the deeper layers and run its whole course without destroying the surface. It is generally not very acute, but it is frequently accompanied l)y iritis and hypopyon; in some of the very chronic cases the mass of exudation does not go on to active suppuration, but quietly sub- sides, and is eventually transformed into fibrous tissue. Trentnieut.—Fomentations and atropine in the earliest stages, with a compress, followed by the galvanic cautery or the local applica- tion of carbolic acid, or some other caustic; Saemisch's operation on the ulcer; the treatment of any lachrymal sac complication (see general remarks on Treatment). The Mair/iiKil Ditvli Ulcer: J/<tr(//>i<il Biiu/ Ulcer.—This begins as a groove near the edge of the cornea; it is usually rather deep, with sharply-cut edges, with or without infiltration of its base ; its tendency is to creep gradually roinid the edge of the cornea, but it may heal in one part while advancing in another ; if not checked the whole cornea may be destroyed by it. It generally occurs in old people with failing nutrition ; the cause is not known. Treatment.—The galvanic cautery should be applied to the advancing edge of the idcer. Kscrine should be used to improve the local nutrition as well as heat and compresses. The Jiodent Ulcer.—A grey infiltration appears at the periphery of the cornea and soon breaks down into an ulcer; the ulcer does not pene- trate deeply, but tends to spread slowly and intermittently over the whole corneal surface. Tiie appearance of this form of ulcer is quite peculiar and characteristic. The surface of the ulcerated area is below the level of the rest of the cornea, it is uneven and opaque, and may contain blood-vessels which have spread in from the limbus. At the line of junction with the unaft'cctcd part of the cornea, the latter stands up considerably above the ulcerated area, and has abrupt cliti'-like edges which are grey in colour and undermined in places. The progress of the ulcer is very slow, and it has periods of quiescence, but it eventually creeps over and spoils the whole surface of the cornea. It occurs chiefly among elderly people, and especi- ally among those who have lived abroad, but it is a very uncommon form of ulcer. The only treatment at all efficacious is to cauterise the advancing grey edge of the ulcer. Kernto-Myccm!< AqiercjiUina.—This rare affec- tion has been described by several Continental writers, but no case has hitherto been reported in this country. It is due to the growth on the cornea of the fungus Aspei'gillus fumigatus, which gains an entrance by means of a foreign body or other injury to the corneal epitheliiuu. The fungus appears as a grey mass with a dry crumbling surface, seated generally near the centre of the cornea; the signs of irritation are not severe, and the course of the affection is tedious. The mass of the growth is, as a rule, cast oft' by exfoliation of the part of the cornea in which it has been growing. Its removal may be hastened by scraping. The I'hlyc'I'enui.au Ui.cek {I'ldi/ctennhir con- junctivitis, Pustular conjunctivitis, Exnntliema- tous or eczematous conjunctivitis, Phlyctenular or pustular keratitis, 2lar<jinal keratitis. Herpes of the cornea. Scrofulous or strmiions oplit}ialnnn, hympliatic conjunctivitis). This disease appears in a great variety of forms, each of which has different stages ; nearly all the forms and stages have received separate names: the result has been the imnecessary complication of a very common affection. The disease is mainly one of childhood ; the general type consists in the formation of a limited exudation of lymphoid cells beneath the epi- thelium of the cornea or conjunctiva ; the epitheliiuu breaks down, leaving a small shallow- ulcer. The ulcer remains for a time, but is gradually repaired by epitlielium creeping over its surface ; at the same time a similar ulcer has been formed elsewhere; sometimes the idcers are very minute, and are known as miliary phlyctenuhe. These are often so n.umerous as to invade the whole limbus, and even to be scattered over the whole surface of the cornea, which has the appearance of being covered with minute grains of sand. The irritative symptoms are severe, the conjunctiva of the lid is nnich swollen, there is intense fear of the light and spasm of the lids, the outer canthus is freipiently cracked or excoriated, the child shrinks away to the darkest corner and keeps his face deeply