BURS^, INJUPJES AND DISEASES OF 43 after the primary infection, and frequently follows an injury. The seat of election is the patellar bursa. The progress of a tertiary syphilitic bursa is very slow, but ultimately the tumour becomes adherent to bone or skin and ulcerates. The diagnosis is often difhcult, as it may be mistaken for simple chronic hygroma, old htoma- toma or nodes, and when it ulcerates it may simulate tubercle. It is, however, very indolent and slow in progress, but when small readily yields to treatment. If of large size or vilcerat- ing it should be completely removed by excision. Neoplasms.—The innocent forms met with are tibro-enchondroma and myxoma. The latter has been seen by Chevasse three times. In one case the tumour had attained the size of a child's head and was freely ulcerated on the surface. Fil)ro-enchondroma is comparatively rare. Con- siderable difficulty is met with in diagnosing these conditions, and the removal is frequently undertaken, not because their nature has been recognised, but because of their size. Malignant new growths are either sarcomatous or endo- theliomatous. The sarcoma is either of the soft or round-celled type, or is of the rapidly-break- ing-down hajniorrhagic variety. With reference to endothelioma, Dcillinger has met with one case in a fistulous bursa of a woman aged 58, and Mickulicz has seen a similar case. The softer varieties of neoplasm may attain an enor- mous size, and Ranke [Archiv fur din. Chir. 1886) has met with one 62 c/m in circumference. The treatment of these neoplasms is complete removal. Bursinic Acid.—So named from Bursa pastarif! (shepherds purse), from which it is obtained ; it is liclieved to act like ergotine. Bursitis. See Burs-e, Injuries and Dis- eases OF. Bushmen. See Ethnology. Bussorah Boil. See Furunculus Orientalis. Buta,ne.—The name given to two isomeric hydrocarbons of the paraffin series, which are colourless, inflammable gases: (1) normal butane (butyl hydride, diethyl, propylmethyl) is CHgCHoCHoCHj; and (2) isobutane (isobiityl hydride, trimethyimetliane) is CH3CH(CHy).j. Butcher's Pemphigus.— Pem- phigus acutus malignus, a disease occurring in those who are constantly handling meat. See Pemphigus. Buteae Semina. — Butea seeds, from the Jlutm frondosd or dliak-tree, ai'e official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Pharmacopoeia of 1898 ; in the form of Fidvis JJuteie Seminum, they are given in- ternally in place of santonin (dose, 10 to 20 grains); externally, they are used for a ring- worm paste; the oil obtained from the seeds is called moodooga oil. Butter. See Diet (Milk and its Products). —(1) The fatty substance obtained from cream by churning; it contains casein, lactose, salts (phosphates), water, and various fats (glycerides of palmitic, stearic, oleic, butyric, and capronic acids), along with an aromatic principle. (2) The name is also given to butter-like substances, such as shea butter (the exudation from the African butter-tree), butter of cacao, butterine, oleomargarine, etc. Butter Baci 11 us. — Mycobacterium 1 lutyri. See Tuberculosis {Diagnosis of Tjacillus). Butterfly Lupus.—Lupus erythema- tosus aft'ecting the bridge of the nose and the cheeks. See Lupus Erythematosus. Butterfly Operation.—A form of posterior colporrhaphy. See Uterus, Displace- ments (Descent). Butterfly Pessary.—An expanding uterine support, not now much used ; Zwancke's pessary. Buttermilk. See Invalid Feeding (Milk). Butter of Antimony.—Antimony chloride, used in the preparation of antimonious oxide; a poison. See Antimony ; Toxicology (Antimony). Buttocks. See Bed-S( »res ; Rectum, Dis- eases {Stricture). Button.—A small knob or disc, such as the cautery button, or Corrigan's button, or, more specially, J. B. Murphy's button (a device used in connection with the operation for the establishment of intestinal anastomosis, to main- tain the patency of the canal during healing); the name is also given to button-like structures, pathological or normal (e.g. Biskra button or Button de Crete, and the umbilicus). Button scurvy seems to have been allied to syphilis (see Venereal Disease, Allied Diseases). Butyl Alcohol.— The radicle Butyl (C^H„) gives rise, in combination, to a number of derivatives, including Butyl Alcohol (C^HjgO), Butyl Aldehyde (C^HgO), Butyl Bromide (C^H.,Br), Butyl Chloral (C^H.CUgO). Chloretone (hypnotic) is a trichloro derivative of butyl alcohol (C^H.ClsO). Butyl Chloral Hydras. — Butyl Chloral Hydrate, wrongly named croton chloral hydrate, C3H^Cl.jCH(dH).,; it is prepared by passing dry chlorine gas through aldehyde, the butyl chloral thus formed is separated and water is added; it resembles chloral hydrate in