60 CATALEPSY knowledge of the pathology of catalepsy. The nervous condition previous to a seizure must be held to explain, in a histologist's sense, the nature of the lesion, and it probably is compar- able to other related diseases—mania, hysteria, epileptoid states, etc. As to the seizure itself, and its effects, it is important to consider what are the mechanisms which are chiefly involved. It is obvious that the lesion is partly cortical, and that it involves mechanisms which subserve perception and volition. The coma seems to have features which distinguish it from that of sleep, of induced hypnosis, of epilepsy, or of swoon. The mode of invasion is characteristic, and the muscular accompaniments, and the depth of insensibility. Apparently the lesion is one which specially involves the outward realm of mental mechanisms — those which subserve muscular activities. The loss of voluntary move- ment is the prelude to the curious phenomenon which persists—the plastic rigidity in voluntary muscles. The invasion of consciousness would seem to be somewhat similar to what occurs in certain epileptiform attacks (not epileptic) in which the spasms of voluntary muscles initiate an attack in which consciousness is thereafter lost. In catalepsy there is paralysis of volun- tary movement, followed by paralysis of con- sciousness. The most interesting phenomenon, however, still remains—^the balanced and co- ordinate muscular contractions which determine rigidity of the limbs, and their persistent sensibility to pressures which determines their plasticity. That phenomenon \indoubtedly sug- gests, as Gowers has pointed out, an affection of the muscle-sense organs. Aff"erent fibres from the muscles, fascias, and joints, and correspond- ing motor tracts, complete a reflex arc whose apex is in the spinal cord. These mechanisms subserve the function of unconscious balance and pose. In noi-mal life, however, that reflex arc has an extension upwards to the cortex, which makes possible a voluntary control of its activities. In catalepsy the higher activity is in abeyance, and the lower mechanisms are active in excess. The rigidity then is simply a secondary, positive sign of the removal of con- scious control, and the plasticity of it is part of its normal function — to adapt pose to stress. But the extraordinary thing is that this function should persist when others have been abolished —an isolated and excessive activity in a general condition of profound coma. We are therefore led to conjecture that there is something very like an epileptiform seizure in catalepsy, and that the motor convulsion, if there is one, is a convulsion in this mechanism to which we have referred. The absence of obvious spasms, either tonic or clonic, signifies only that the convul- sion is not in a mechanism of large movements, which we already know. The mechanism referred to is a fine-adjustment mechanism. Its move- ments are all small. It would be instructive to know if there are any cases in which, with pro- longed unconsciousness, there are recurrences of the characteristic muscular phenomena. Some of the protracted cases may signify the passing from one fit to another. In any case, as all authorities are agreed, the aff'ection is in some sense epileptoid. Ca.'ta.lysiS.—The effect produced upon a body or substance by the presence or contact of another substance, the latter l:)eing termed the catalyser and showing in itself no change ; it is in this way that enzymes are believed to act {e.g. in fermentation); it has been supposed that the catalyser does not really initiate a reaction, but merely hastens it. Ca,ta.menia.. See Menstruation and its Disorders (Terminology). Catapasm.—A dusting-powder. Cataphasia. — A disordered state of speech; a word or phrase is repeated or affirmed (KaTa</)ao-i9, affirmation) over and over again, either as an answer to a series of questions or apart from conversation. CataphoreSiS.—That action in which galvanism aids a substance or solution to pene- trate the tissues acted upon ; a sort of electric osmosis. See Teeth {Electro-Cataphoresis). Cataplasm.—A poultice ; occasionally, a plaster. See Prescribing. Cataplexy.—Mesmeric sleep in animals ; shamming death, or a temporary paralysis. CataptOSiS. — The sudden feeling of a patient affected with epilepsy or apoplexy. Cataract. See also Diabetes Mellitus {Corn-plications, Affections of the Eye); Eyeball, Injuries of ; Glaucoma {Causes, Cataract- Operations) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections ok {NystagmuH). Introductory 60 Formation of . . . . .61 Traumatic . . . . . .61 Idiopathic . . . . . .61 Diagnosis ...... 62 Congenital ...... 63 Treatment ...... 64 Operations— 1. Reclination ..... 65 2. Discission ..... 65 3. Extraction ..... 66 After-Treatment ..... 68 Technically, the name cataract is applied to any intransparency of the crystalline lens. Popularly, only those lenticular intransparencies which by their distribution and their density cause more or less considerable impairment of visual acuity are looked upon as cataracts. It is also