419 DRESSINGS advantages over any antiseptic dressing, wliich at tlie time of use may actually be septic, and uotliing is more readily obtained in even the smallest cottage than a pan of water in which the dressing may be Ijoiled and sterilised in ten minutes, and also, from the fact that there is no antiseptic in the dressing which may be relied upon, it is probable that all the other precau- tions which are taken before an operation to secure asepsis will be more carefully and thoroughly carried out. It is well to apply to the wound several layers of gauze, covered by absorbent wool sutticient in quantity to enable equable pressure to be applied, to add to the comfort of tiie patient by preventing irritation or chafing from the bandage, and to further diminish the risk of pyogenic organisms from without coming in contact with the wound. And, after all, it will happen in only exceptional cases that infection of an accurately closed aseptic woinid by pyogenic organisms from witiiout will produce more than superficial suppuration in the wound. In the event of asepsis not being maintained during the healing of the wound the typical symptoms will appear—pain and discomfort in the wound, and possibly a rise of temperature, which will be an indication that the wound requires to be dressed. If the septic change is due to a stitch abscess, removal of the offending •stitch and the application of an antiseptic dress- ing may l)e sufficient to prevent further infection of tlie wound; this dressing should, so long as there is any trace of sepsis, be changed daily. J^'or this purpose double cyanide or carbolic gauze may be used, and some sui'geons put a layer of aseptic gutta-percha tissue or jaconet over the wet gauze to furtiier the absorption of ])us from the wound. If the septic mischief is in the deeper parts of the wound several stitches should be removed, the septic part of the wound -swabbed with iodoform gauze, and a similar dressing applied; so long as the woiuid remains septic, it should be swabbed daily with iodoform gauze, and a very successful method of prevent- ing the discharge accumulating in the wound is to introduce into the woimd a few strands of sterilised worsted which may be impregnated with aseptic iodoform. Mr. Stiles of Edinburgh has done much to popularise the use of worsted in the treatment of wounds requiring drainage. It may be mentioned here that iodoform is not always aseptic, but its asepticity may be secured by keeping it in a 1 in 1000 solution < if corrosive sublimate, no chemical change taking jilace ; and the vessel containing the iodoform sliould, from time to time, be shaken up in order that the iodoform and tiie corrosive sublimate may ])e thoroughly mixed. In wounds which are not expected to heal by first intention, i.e. those wounds in which a drainage-tube is necessary ; those wounds in wiiicli, as in emergency operations, there is some doidit as to their complete asepticity; those wounds, such as those left after curetting for lupus, in which the edges are not in contact; those wounds which cannot be with certainty rendered aseptic before or during the operation —to such woimds it is advisable to apply a dressing which contains an antiseptic in such (:[uantity as to be effective without Ijeing irritating, and for this purpose the double cyanide or carbolic gauze may be used, or, better still, gauze which has been first sterilised and then wrung out of an antiseptic lotion, such as carbolic acid 1 in 40, lysol 1 in 100, or biniodide of mercury 1 in 1000. (It is almost superfluous to 23oint out that an antiseptic dressing is de- prived of its antiseptic value if it is impregnated with an antiseptic before sterilisation; for, during the process, the volatile antiseptic is driven off'.) In such cases, it is well to change the dressing soon after the operation—on the following day at latest—for the antiseptic dress- ing becomes valueless as such so soon as the antiseptic volatilises. It is a mistake to apply large quantities of absorbent wool over a wound for the sake of soaking up the discharge from it, except in those cases, such as psoas abscess and empytema, in which the discharge is likely to be very profuse ; and the practice of putting a quantity of absorbent wool as a pad on a dressing wdiich shows signs of the discharge being " through " is to be deprecated, for, under such circumstances, the development and growth of pyogenic organisms is encoui'agcd. Sununarising, then, it may be stated that in the case of wounds believed to be aseptic, in which the surrounding skin is believed to be aseptic, and which are meant to heal by first intention without the employment of a drainage- tube, and even, also, in the case of septic wounds which are believed to have been rendered aseptic during the operation, the best dressing consists of several layers of sterilised gauze, covered by absorbent wool and retained in position by a bandage. In wounds in regions in which it is no easy matter to render the skin aseptic, and whei'c the dressings are apt to be soiled—such as the inguinal region—and in wounds not expected to heal without suppuration, it is advisable to apply a dressing of several layers of gauze which have been first sterilised and then dipped in one of the antiseptic lotions alluded to above. As manufacturers do nol supply antiseptic dressings which have been previously sterilised except when specially ordered to do so, and even tlien, as their methods cannot be so reliable as those of a surgeon or of a trained assistant, it is to lie reconunended that the preparation of the gauze be carried out imdcr the surgeon's inuncdiate observation. I am indebted to Messrs. J. V. Macfarlan and Co. of Edinburgh (in whose works Lord Lister spent much time when endeavouring to