CHEST, DEFORMITIES OF 89 outline of the clie«t, there is ;in enlargement of the cartilaginous ends of the ribs, which results in the beaded appearance known as the " rickety rosary." The deformity is the result of the atmospheric pressin-e acting upon the softened ribs. Wlien the diaphragm descends during inspiration the rickety softened ribs are unable to withstand the atmospheric pressure diu'ing the time the fresh supply of air is entering the lung. The chest-wall yields at its softest jmrt, that is, immediately external to the enlarged growing ends of the ribs, and a sulcus forms down the sides of the chest, while the sternum is carried forwards by the unyielding costal carti- lages. The rickety deformity may form without any actual impediment to the entrance of air into the chest, but is accentuated if any impedi- ment such as a l)ronchial catarrh be superadded to the rickets. The deformity being due to an undue softness of tlie chest-wall, the solid organs subjacent may modify the deformity; thus the liver supports the lower chest-wall on the right side, while the heart may form a prominence on the left side. In liyrinyomyelia a boat-shaped hollow some- times develops in the upper part of the thorax, the region below the level of the fifth rib being normal. The head is buried between the shoulders, and the sternum shows considerable oblitpiity and the shoulders are carried forwards. There is no functional disturbance. (iii.) Deformities of the Chest due to Mechanical Causes.—Any more or less con- tinuous alteration in position or increased pres- sure will affect the outline of the thorax and give rise to greater or less deformity. Elevation of one shoulder, usually the left, is met with in clerks who, on account of the position taken while writing, tend to have a slight lateral spinal curvature with elevation of the shoulder. Again, in persons whose occupation necessitates the carrying of heavy weights on one arm, the opposite shoulder takes up a iiigher position, and a slight deformity is induced. In some trades considerable deformity may result from pressure, as, for example, the well-recognised depression which occurs at the lower end of the sternum in shoemakers from the pressure of the " last." In the developing chest of young boys a projection of one or more costal cartilages may result from lateral compression in athletic exercises. The cartilage, being soft when it is compressed between the rib and the sternum, bends, and an angular projection forms. In the female, mechanical modification may result from tight corsets. The hjwer ribs are foi'ced inwards and imprint their traces on the viscera, the massed intestine presses upon the pelvic organs, the descent of the diaphragm is limited, and the respiration becomes thoracic in type ; the respiratory capacity of the lower part of the chest is diminished, and the epigastric angle is reduced. The pressure results in enteroptj'sis, or else, if dislocation of the different organs be not produced, an indelible impression remains with an alteration in the shape of the organ. (iv.) Deformities due to Abnormal Condi- tions OF the Thoracic Organs.—The framework of the chest undergoing, as it does, ceaseless temporary changes in outline during the respira- tory and circulatory movements, the shape of the outline must lai-gely depend upon the condition of the contained viscera. Any alteration taking place in the thoracic viscera must to a greater or less extent tell upon the parietes. The develop- ment of the chest must be dependent upon the development of the contained organs, and any want of respiratory capacity will tell in the most marked manner upon the form and out- line of the chest. While thus departing from the normal the form may not amount to absolute deformity, but the abnormality is of importance to the physician as showing the existence of past or the probability of future lung mischief. Of such a type is the " alar" or " pterygoid " chest. In such individuals, as the result of im- proper surroundings and education during early life, there is deficient lung development, or it may be that there is a congenitally small lung capacity. As a consequence there is deficient development of the chest; it is shallow and narrow, there is an increased ol>liquity of the ribs which results in a proportional diminution of both the antero - posterior and transvei'se diameters, the increased obliquity of the ribs results in a drooping and forward inclination of the shoulders, the upper part of the scapula is thus carried forwards and the angle tilted back- wards from the ribs, giving the chest the peculiar "alar" appearance. While the increased obliquity of the ribs results in increase in the vertical length of the bony framework, the vertical capacity of the chest is really diminished by an increase in the height of the diaphragm. The flat chest, the type of the tuberculous, shows a marked and distinctive deformity. There is a loss in the normal anterior rounding of the chest, there is a diminution in the antero- posterior diameter of the sectional outline in the marked form, the cartilages of the true ribs having a diminished anterior curve, in some cases the sternum even being depressed. In the flat chest, as distinguished from the alar, there may be no increased obliquity of the ribs. Both alar and flat chests are essentially deformities the result of deficient lung capacity, which is said by some to be congenital, but may also be the result of deficient pulmonary development arising from adverse circumstances and sur- roundings. The 2>igeori chest is characterised by an alter- ation of the almost circular sectional outline of the childish chest to a triangular form. There is an increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the chest due essentially to a straightening of the true ribs in front of their angles, and the