CLIMATE AND ACCLIMATISATION 162 A more scientific division of climates is made by using isothermal lines, because the mean annual temperature varies in different regions occupying the same latitude on the earth's surface. This would give us five fairly ex- tensive regions between the equator and either pole :— 1. The hot region, between the equator and the isothermic line of 77° F. (25° C). 2. The warm region, between the isothermic lines 77° F. (25° C.) and 59° F. (15° C). 3. The temperate region, between the iso- thermic lines 59° F. (15° C.) and 41° F. (5° C). 4. The cold region, between the isothermic lines 41° F. (5° C.) and 23° F. ( - 5° C). 5. The polar region, between the isothermic lines 23° F. (- 5° C.) and 5° F. ( - 15° C.)- Apart from temperature, rainfall, winds, etc., to which reference will be made presently, for practical purposes we must refer to seven climates:— 1. Hot climate. 2. Temperate climate. 3. Cold climate. 4. Insular climate. 5. Maritime climate. 6. Continental climate. 7. Mountainous climate. As all these climates have general differences, it will be well to briefly describe them before referring to details. General Characteristics.—1. The hot climate^ which may be described as ^practically extending to 35° north and south of the equator, contains within its limits South Asia, nearly all the islands of Polynesia, the greater part of Africa and its islands, and those parts of North and South America lying between the latitudes mentioned. In these regions the heat is greatest, not, as might be imagined, at the equator, but at the tropics (20°-23° 30"). The heat at the equator is modified by the equatorial rains, which fall almost daily, and the equatorial calms, but although the rainfall is fairly equally distributed during the whole year it only amounts to about 45 inches in this equatorial region. Between 5° and 10° of latitude there are two rainy seasons in the year. In regions between 10° and 13° there is one rainy season, which lasts upon an average for five months. These general considerations are modified by the monsoons. The variation in the thermometer is slight during the day, but at night there is often a considerable fall. In general terms, the range of temperature is from about 55° to 120° F. (13° to 49° C). The daily variation in baro- metrical pressure is well marked, but the general variation is slight. There is an almost rainless area north and south of the equator from about 16° to 28°, where it seldom or never rains, and in these belts the mean annual temperature is greatest. Throughout the hot climates thunderstorms are of frequent occurrence. The general influence of the hot climate upon the inhabitants is to render them lazy and apathetic. It has a very definite influence upon the constitution of Europeans residing there, and the physiological functions of the body are distinctly affected. With regard to the normal temperatii/re of the body, we find that, according to numerous observers, it is slightly raised, probably about 0°-40 F. (0°-04 C), but the mean diurnal difference of temperature is practically the same in Europeans as seen in Europe. Crombie found that the mean tempera- ture of Europeans in Bengal, taken in the mouth, was 98°"49, with a maximum daily range of 1°*31, as compared with the English average of 98°"084 and 1°'41 respectively. With regard to resjnratwn, Rattray's observations are summarised by Davidson thus: " The vascularity of the adult lungs is reduced by 12 to 13 fl. oz.; their spiro-metric measurement by the average of 32 inches; their function by 18'43 per cent, that is, they use 36"85 cubic feet less of air daily; the excretion by 1"84 oz. less of carbon and 6-7 less of watery vapour." This is accounted for by the number of respirations being lessened to about 14 per minute, and there being con- siderably less blood in the lungs under the influence of an average temperature of from 80° to 83° F. (27°-28-5° C). There is a very slight difference in the ^jMZ.se rate, and the proportion between the respirations and the pulse rate is not the same as in Europe. The amount of urine voided is diminished in quantity. Rattray says that it is diminished by 17^ per cent, but, of course, the amount of urine depends upon the amount of fluid con- sumed, the temperature, and the humidity of the atmosphere. Opinions vary as to the effect of a hot climate upon the blood, and for this reason that prob- ably malaria must be taken into consideration. On the whole, however, it is safe to say that Europeans suffer from a slight ansemia. By some authors this is considered physiological ansemia, and rather beneficial than otherwise. The nervous system during the first few months of a residence in a hot climate is excited, but this excitement soon gives rise to depression, which latter is partly due to loss of sleep, partly to climate, and also to the worries incidental to a residence in a hot climate. Digestion is slower than it is in Europe, and digestive powers are weakened; the appetite fails, and nutrition is diminished; weight is lost, and the muscular system enfeebled. The functions of the liver and skin are greatly stimulated. Menstruation commences about one or two years sooner than in Europe. European children born in hot climates thrive fairly well in infancy, apart from their liability to suffer from diseases incidental to the climate.