CONJUNCTIVA, , DISEASES OF 209 other than Klebs-Loffler, that may be present. For this purpose, in the earlier stages, the writer prefers a 15 per cent solution of potassium permanganate, and, later, a 2 per cent solution of silver nitrate. The remedy selected must be applied once or twice daily, if possible, to the everted conjunctiva. Meanwhile the eyes must be kept clean with an antiseptic lotion, such as corrosive sublimate (1 :-5000), or boric acid (1 per cent), or quinine. A good formula is quinine liydrochloride, gr. 2 ; distilled water, 1 ounce. Stimulants are often needed in severe cases. The patient must V)e carefully isolated, especially from other children. Chronic Ophthalmia Three forms of conjunctivitis are included under the general description chronic ophthalmia, but before describing them, a few words must be said with regard to the healthy palpebral con- junctiva. The lower tarsal membrane is gener- ally traversed by arborescent vessels, and shows, especially towards its outer side, a number of minute transparent elevations, the so-called " follicles," which are neither more nor less than collections of small roiuid cells. Another common appearance consistent with health is that of a single row of minute elevations, which lie close to, and parallel with, the free edge of the outer third of the eyelid. The upper tarsal conjunctiva may be smooth or slightly velvety, particularly along its lower convex edge. It is of so thin a texture as often to allow the under- lying Meibomian glands to be recognised as so many vertical markings. It is quite common for a few tiny elevations to lie at the corners of the upper tarsal conjunctiva. Deeply-seated vessels may be seen shining through the loose superior retro-tarsal folds. " Follicles " are fre- quently to be distinguished, and the lobules of the inferior lacrymal (or palpebral) gland can always be found embedded in the outer part of the folds. It is most important to study the characters of the normal conjinictiva attentively, for a want of that knowledge is likely to lead to errors both of diagnosis and of treatment. 1. Chronic Muco-Purulent Conjunctivitis. —This affection results in most cases from a neglected acutecatarrh. Its subjective symptoms include heaviness and dryness of the eyes at night, frequent blinking, and sensations like those of foreign substances in the eye. Indeed, they are often like those of an uncorrected error of refraction. The palpebral conjunctiva may be unduly red; secretion may be present after sleep; and a common appearance is that of a whitish, frothy spume collected in the corners of the eye. The patients frequently complain of colours around artificial lights, the result of particles of mucus on the cornea. Complica- tions—as, for example, troublesome lacrymation, blepharitis, and ulcerative keratitis—are more common in elderly subjects. VOL. II Treatinent.—Wind, smoke, dust, or impure air must be avoided. Errors of refraction or muscular anomalies should be corrected with suitable glasses. The lacrymal passages and the nose must be cai'cfully examined. Weak solutions of silver nitrate (gr. ^-1 to the ounce) often render yeoman service, although they must not be employed for too long, owing to the risks of staining the conjunctiva. Other useful local astringents are zinc sulphate (gr. 1-2), alum (gr. 2), boric acid (gr. 10). In many cases it is advisable to add to the foi'e- going lotions a little tincture of opium. A remedy in much favour is the yellow lotion > of the Austrian Pharmacopa'ia, dropped into the eye twice or thrice a day. In children by far the best remedy is the familiar yellow oxide of mercury ointment (gr. 10-20). An ointment of copper sulphate, containing to 2 gr. of the precipitated salt to half an ounce of soft paraffin and an equal amount of hydrous wool fat, is often efficacious. In difficult cases the everted conjunctiva may be touched occasionally with solid alum or bluestone. 2. Follicular Conjunctivitis.—The symp- toms of this affijction resemlile those of chronic muco-purulent conjunctivitis, but in addition the " follicles " are unusually prominent. These are rounded or oval, seldom exceed 1 '5 mm. in diameter, are more or less transparent, and are generally arranged in rows " like the beads of a rosary." The conjunctiva is rarely deeply in- volved, and the changes are always more marked in the lower lids than elsewhere. The condition is never associated with consecutive corneal changes. Its predisposing cause appears to lie in the adenoid tendency of certain subjects; its exciting cause may be either general, as in- sanitary surroundings, or local, as an attack of acute ophthalmia, the prolonged use of atropine or physostigmine, and so on. The best name for this widely-spread condition seems to be simple folliculitis. Treatment.—If the " follicles " give rise to no symptom, and are not associated with discharge from the eye, they are best left alone. Other- wise, the same remedies may be employed as described in the last section. Tannate of lead ointment (10 per cent) often acts well. If the overgrowths be large, there can be no objection to getting rid of them by squeezing, cutting, or other sui'gical means. A change of air is some- times beneficial. 3. Trachoma.—This important affection is found almost exclusively amongst the poorest classes, and in schools attended by those classes. It may cling to a particular building for years, simply because proper steps are not taken to ' The yellow lotion contains .immonium chloride, 0"5, and zinc sulphate, 1'25 parts, dissolved in 200 parts of distilled water. To that solution is added a mixture of absolute alcohol 20 parts, camphor 0"4, and saffron O'l. The two solutions are mixed, allowed to stand for twenty- four hours, and tiltered. 14