120 CHOLERA, EPIDEMIC (b) Racial Relations.—The following propor- tions per cent were attacked at Guadeloupe in 1865 :— Chinese .... 2-7 Whites . . . . 4-31 Hindoos .... 3-26 Mulattoes . . . . 6-31 Negroes .... 9-44 The comparative immunity of the Chinese has also been noticed in Mauritius, and has been ascribed to their opium-eating habits, but it is to be remembered at the same time that nowhere has cholera raged more destructively than in the Chinese Empire. (c) Personal Relations.—Sex has no influence on the liability to cholera. Its incidence on different ages varies in different outbreaks. In the Hamburg outbreak of 1892 the ages fifteen to twenty-five gave the smallest ratio of attacks and also of deaths to the number attacked. Children under two years of age suffered con- siderably, as did also old persons. The poor, as a rule, suffer more than the rich, and a special liability attaches to the inmates of Lunatic Asylums. As respects occupations little can be said, except that washerwomen employed in washing cholera linen contract the disease out of all proportion to its incidence on the community generally. Exempted Places.—Some places seem to he proof against cholera. It has never appeared in Cheltenham, Sedan, or Wiirzburg. In other places, such as Versailles, Lyons, and Martinique, the disease has never assumed epidemic pro- portions. Morbid Anatomy When death occurs at the height of the disease, rigor mortis is well marked ; the features are pinched, the face, extremities, and body generally are more or less cyanotic. The cerebral sinuses and the veins of the meninges contain dark blood. The pleurae are dry, and frequently present numerous ecchymoses. The lungs are dry and collapsed, and are much below the normal weight. The larger branches of the pulmonary arteries contain blood; the smaller arteries, capillaries, and pulmonary veins are empty. The pericardium does not contain a trace of serum. The visceral layer is frequently studded with small ecchymoses. The right side of the heart and the veins emptying into it, as well as the jugular veins, the portal vein, and the larger hepatic veins, are engorged. The left side of the heart is empty and contracted. The stomach is empty; the lining membrane may be pale and sodden or congested. Occa- sionally it presents ecchymotic points. The duodenum and jejunum are frequently hyper- semic continuously or in patches. The large intestine is contracted. The peri- toneum covering the small intestine has often a rosy appearance and is dry and sticky. The ileum usually contains more or less rice-water fluid, and is throughout, especially in its lower part, congested and oedematous, but these appearances are most marked in its lower half. Occasionally the mucous membrane is found pale, instead of congested; at other times ecchymosed and suffused. The solitary glands and Peyer's patches are prominent, the latter often surrounded by a red zone of congestion. On microscopic examination the mucous mem- brane in many parts is found denuded of epi- thelium. At other places the epithelium is detached from the subjacent tissues by serous exudation. Commas are found in the tubular glands, and between the epithelium and the basement membrane; on the surface of, and sometimes within the villi, and occasionally also in the deeper tissues of the mucosa. The mes- enteric glands are swollen and softened. The liver is often somewhat increased in volume, dark, congested, but of normal consist- ence. The gall-bladder is full of bile of varying viscidity and colour. The spleen is small, dry, and anaemic. The kidneys, when death occurs early, are often augmented in volume, and in this case the medullary and cortical substances show punctuated, patchy, or striped areas of venous congestion, occasionally ecchymotic points or patches. The vessels of the glomeruli are con- gested. In other cases the congestion is less marked, and the kidneys may even be pale. The epithelium of the tubules is swollen and cloudy, blocking up the lumen of the tubes. The bladder is empty and contracted. When death has occurred during the stage of reaction, the appearances are altogether differ- ent from those just described, and the lesions vary considerably according to the symptoms developed during the reaction. The cerebral membranes are injected, and there is often effusion into the meshes of the pia mater and into the lateral ventricles. The lungs are congested, and the pneumonic or other inflammatory lesions may be present. The mucous membrane of the small intestine may be softened, ulcerated, or covered with patches of diphtheritic exudation, and this may extend to the large intestine. The liver and spleen are usually somewhat enlarged and con- gested ; the kidneys enlarged, vascular, of a dark red colour, with fatty and granular casts in the canaliculi. The urine in the bladder is generally albuminous. Symptoms The cardinal symptoms of cholera are diar- rhoea, vomiting, muscular cramps, paresis of the heart, algidity, suppression of urine, followed by death or reaction. The attack may begin with a diarrhoea in-