BUTYL CHLORAL HYDRAS 44 its action, and has been used specially for neuralgia of the fifth nerve (dose, 5 to 20 grains); it dissolves freely in spirit. Butyiene.—One of the olefines, formed in the dry distillation of coal, etc. (C^Hg). ButyphuS.—The cattle plague. Butyric Acid. See Micro-Organisms {Fermentations).—This acid (C^HyOo) is formed during the oxidation of liutyl alcohol {e.g. during the fermentation of cheese); it has been used as a hypnotic. Butyrometerand Butyroscope. —Instruments for determining the amount of fatty matter in milk. Buxine.—An alkaloid obtained from Buxus sempervivens, and probably identical with Beberine (CigH^^jNOj) ; buxinidin is found with it. B U xtO n. See Balneology (Great Britain); Hydropathy ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Bynin.—A proprietary liquid extract of malt. Bynol.—An emulsion of cod-liver oil in extract of malt. Byres. See Milk {Cow-sheds). Byrolin.—A mixture of lanoline, glycerine, and boric acid. BySSinosiS.—A pneumonokoniosis, due to inhalation of cotton fibre ; byssophthisis. {See Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis). CclC- £ind CaCO-.—In compound words "cac-" and "caco-" signify bad, ill-conditioned, evil, or morbid. Thus caccemia is a morbid or depraved state of the blood; caccesthesia is an unpleasant sensation; cacocholia is a depraved state of the bile, and cacochylia, of the chyle; cacochymia is a morbid state of the humours; cacocolpia is vulvar gangrene, cacoglossia is gan- grene of the tongue, cacopnev/monia is gangrene of the lung, and cacostomia is gangrene of the mouth; caconychia is a morbid state of a nail, and cacospermia, of the semen ; etc., etc. See also infra. Cacao Butter.—A concrete oil {Olewm Theohromatis) got from the seeds of the chocolate- tree {Theohroma cacao) of the Natural Order of the Sterculiacese. By varying the process of preparation, cocoa and chocolate are obtained. Cacao butter is used in the making of supposi- tories (except those of glycerine); it contains chiefly stearin, some olein, and the alkaloid theobromine. CaCCag'Og'ue. See Aperients, Purga- tives. Cachets.—Wafer papers for concealing the taste of nauseous drugs. Cachexia. See also Gout {Chronic and Irregular) ; Malaria {Secjuelce) ; Mammary' Gland, Diseases of {Carcinomata); Uncon- sciousness {Auto-intoxications, Cachexia strumi- priva).—This term, derived from the Greek words KttKos and e^ts, and meaning literally a bad habit of body, is one which has been used fi'oni the very beginnings of medicine. It never has had, however, a very precise meaning, and the following is its definition as given by Cope- land :—" Depravity of the constitution, without fever, affecting more or less the solids, the cir- culating fluids, and the secretions." In this way cachexia is to be regarded as meaning the out- ward and mainly the facial expression and characteristics resulting from the profound and complex changes in nutrition induced by a malady of some chronicity. It is to be noticed that cachexia is to be distinguished from dia- thesis, by which is meant a constitutional dis- position in virtue of which an individual is liable to certain local affections of the same nature. It is also to be distinguished from the malady ac- qviired as the result of some innate weakness or unhealthy surroundings, and no less from the conjoined symptoms and signs of the disease induced by such. With the diathesis, with the conjoined symp- toms, and with the malady itself, it has, how- ever, frequently been confounded, and its dis- tinction as a term from marasmus, dyscrasia, and many others, is not well marked. There is no doubt that as our knowledge of healthy and diseased processes is becoming more exact, the term cachexia is becoming less and less made use of. In olden times the cachexias and the fevers shared a great part of the physician's attention, whilst now, the term, if mentioned in a text-book, is seldom deemed of sufficient importance to merit a place in the index. For this disuse our more precise know- ledge of disease, and our clearer grasp of the association of symptoms, form, as has been said, the explanation. The terms cachectic angina and cachectic liver abscess, of a previous genera- tion, are hardly ever used now, the sore throat and liver abscess being ascribed to infective organisms acting on an individual of lowered nutritive power. Further, the scorbutic cachexia, the syphilitic cachexia, the cardiac cachexia of the French writers, and many others, are recognised now rather as a more or less definite association of certain symptoms or signs. It follows, therefore, that although in reality every disease has its cachexia, yet the cachexias which require detailed consideration at the present time are only three in number, viz. the cancerous, the malarial, and the metallic.