CION 152 Cion-.—In compound words cion- (Gr. Ktwi-) means the uvula, as in ciono2)tosis, relaxation of the uvula, cionotomy, cutting the uvula, ciono- tome, etc. C ire in ate.—Rounded. Circle of Hailer.—A vascular plexus on the sclerotic, near the entrance of the optic nerve, formed by branches of the short ciliary arteries, and named on this account circulus arteriosus Halleri; the circulus venosus Halleri, or circulus venosus mammae, is that formed by the veins round the nipple. Circle of MaSCagfne.—The name given to the circular arrangement of capillaries in the region of the zonule of Zinn in the foetus. Circle of Willis.—The circular arrange- ment of arteries at the base of the brain (circulus arteriosus Willisii), into the composition of which enter the anterior and posterior cerebral and the anterior and posterior communicating arteries. See Brain, Physiology {Blood Supply). Circular Insanity.—Insanity in which a dull and depressed stage alternates with one of excitement. Circulation. See Heart, Myocardium, AND Endocardium ; Arteries, Diseases of ; Capillaries, Diseases of ; Veins, Diseases of. See also Aneurysm ; Children, Clinical Ex- amination ; Physiology, Circulation ; Fcetus and Ovum, Development {Foetal Circulation, Placental Circulation) ; Lymphatic System ; Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in Circula- tion) ; Pregnancy, Affections and Complica- tions {Cardio-Vascular); Pulse. Circumcision. Introductory Historical References . 152 Indications for Operative Measures . 152 Dorsal Incision and Circumcision . .153 After-Treatment and Modifications . 153 See also Venereal Disease {Soft Sores, Com- plications, Phimosis); Micturition {Incontinence, Retention); Spermatorrhcea ; Urethra, Diseases {Gonorrhoea, CovijAications, Phymosis). 'Circumcision is the operation for the removal of the prepuce in its whole circumference. Its origin is obscure. As a religious ordinance it dates from the time of Abraham, but there are proofs of an earlier Egyptian origin, while it was undoubtedly practised in early times in Central America, New Zealand, and the South Sea Islands. At the present day it is not only a Jewish ritual performed in infancy, but is cus- tomary at puberty among Mohammedans, and prevails in some parts of Central Africa. Apart from the question of religion and custom, one may say, generally, that circumcision is indi- cated where there is a condition of phymosis. that is, such a narrowing of the prepucial orifice where the cutaneous and mucous membranes meet, that retraction and reposition are difficult or impossible. Difficulty in retracting the pre- puce from epithelial adhesions to the glans is normal at birth, and is not phymosis, and only becomes so when natural or artificial means fail to relieve the condition. Operation is, therefore, only indicated when the normal process of re- traction is delayed, and the orifice narrowed by slight recurring attacks of balanoposthitis, and more especially if complications arise which ex- perience has proved to depend upon this condi- tion. The phymosis may be partial or complete : hypertrophic when the outer layer of the prepuce is elongated ; atrophic when tightly stretched over the glans, inflammatory, oedematous, or senile. The complications arising from phymosis are many : they may take the form of urinary troubles, local inflammation and irritation, a frequent combination of the two, and mal- development of the penis and glans. Of urinary troubles there may be frequency of micturition, straining and pain, eneuresis, retention, incon- tinence, and overflow, dilatation of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys, with, as a consequence, pro- lapsus ani, hei'nia, htematuria, uremia, cystitis, and stone. From local inflammation and irrita- tion arise pain, swelling, oedema, muco-purulent discharge with increase of the phymosis, erections, masturbation, seminal emissions, and other dis- turbances of the sexual functions, leading to nervous troubles, gastralgia, palpitation, hypo- chondriasis, and it is even said simulated or real disease of the hip-joint, epilepsy, and brain affec- tions. A combination of the two naturally aggravates both, while later in life maldevelop- ment of the penis and glans, difticulties in coitus, and the liability to venereal disease and epi- thelioma have to be considered. Although all conditions of true phymosis are really acquired, as proper treatment in infancy would have pre- vented them, still for convenience, those occur- ring in children whose foreskins have never been retracted are termed congenital, while those which appear later in life, where the prepuce has previously been easily retracted, are called acquired. Acquired phymosis can only occur when the prepuce is long, as it normally is in 33 per cent of adults. The causes are usually inflammatory, from gonorrhoea, chancres, eczema, or herpes; but senile phymosis depends on atrophy of the glans and limb of the penis, with chronic irritation. Should one or several of these conditions exist, the next question to consider is when is operative interference necessary, and regarding this the most varied views prevail. According to some, every long prepuce, whether it can be retracted or not, demands operation, as it may at a subsequent date lead to trouble. The other view is, that, as in the majority of cases,