EAE, EXAMINATION OF 456 partly by the ledge of bone which constitutes the inner end of the roof of the external meatus, and below that by the upper part of the tym- panic membrane known as Shrapnell's membrane. Certain ligaments attach these two ossicles to the walls of this recess, thus subdividing it, and in the event of suppuration occurring in it, rendering drainage difficult, and the affection therefore a more serious one. Such suppura- tions are usually associated with a perforation in Shrapnell's membrane. The relations of the facial nerve to the tympanic cavity are of great importance, and will be studied in detail when the operations upon the mastoid antrum are under consideration. It should be borne in mind here that, owing to an occasional con- genital deficiency in the honj wall of the aque- ductus Fallopii, facial paralysis may arise in the course of an acute otitis media. In chronic middle ear suppuration paralysis may follow caries of the bony wall of the Fallopian canal. The Eustachian tube forms a direct com- munication between the naso-pharynx and the tympanic cavity, opening into the latter an- teriorly and superiorly. Its pharyngeal orifice is situated on the external or lateral wall of the naso-pharynx, on a level with, and immediately Vertical sPction of the external meatus, menibrana tym- pani, and tympanio cavity (Politzer). a. Cellular spaces in the superior wall of the meatus, connected with the middle ear; b, roof of tympanic cavity ; c, inferior wall; d, tympanic cavity ; c, membrana tym- pani; /, head of the malleus ; g, handle of the malleus ; %, incus; i, stapes ; k, eaiialis Falloi>iiE ; I, fossa jugularis ; m, glandular orifices in the external meatus (right ear). behind, the posterior end of the inferior turbin- ated body. The direction of this orifice is down- wards as well as inwards, while posteriorly and superiorly its circumference presents a well- marked prominence or cushion. Special refer- ence must be made to the Eustachian tube, owing to the impoi'tant part which it plaj's both in the physiology of hearing and in the patho- logy of deafness. It is essential for the proper function of hearing that equal air-pressure should be maintained on both surfaces of the tympanic membrane, so that the membrane may fully respond to the sound vibrations. This air- pressure is maintained on the inner surface of the membrana tympani through the Eustachian tube, the pharyngeal orifice of which opens during swallowing by the action of the levator jjalati and salpingo-pharyngeus muscles. Any condition which tends to narrow or occlude the tube interferes with its proper function. This intimate anatomical association with the nose and throat renders the tube liable to share in the catarrhal affections of these regions, and it also serves as a canal along which infective processes may readily spread to the tympanum itself. The mastoid antrum and cells lie behind the tympanic cavity, and are in direct commmiica- tion with it posteriorly and superiorly through a short and somewhat irregularly-shaped passage, the mucous membrane being directly continuous from one cavity to the other. Posteriorly and inferiorly the antrum is separated from the tympanum by a ridge of bone, so that its floor lies below the level of the opening of communica- tion ; for this reason, drainage of pus from the antrum may be interfered with. Both the tympanum and antrum are roofed in by a thin plate of bone which separates them from the middle cranial fossa. The mastoid cells vary in their development, and for the most part lie superficial to the antrum. The connections of the middle ear are well shown in the above figures. The Internal Ear or Lahyrinth.—The third division of the auditory apparatus lies in the petrous temporal, internal to the tympanum, its outer bony wall being formed by the inner wall of the latter cavity. It consists of the osseous and membranous labyrinths with the termina- tions of the auditory nerve in the cochlea and vestibule; the cochlear fibres subserve the func- tion of hearing, the vestibular are concerned with the maintenance of equilibrium. A more detailed account of the labyrinth and auditory nerve will be found under "Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth," vol. i. p. 327 et seq. Clinical examination of the ear will be greatly facilitated by grouping the different anatomical parts above described under two heads : (1) The sound-conducting apparatus; (2) the sound- perceiving apparatus. By the sound-conducting apparatus we mean tlie auricle, the external auditory meatus, the membi'ana tympani, the tympanum and chain of ossicles, including the insertion of the footphite of the stapes in the oval window. The sovnd-ferceiving apparatus consists of the terminations of the auditory nerve in the cochlea, the nerve-trunk itself, the various tracts in the brain, and the auditory centre. When the lesion involves the conduct- ing portion, it is frequently spoken of as pro- ducing " obstructive deafness," and when the perceiving portion is at fault, the term " nerve deafness " is employed. It is essential that the