483 EAR: ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE MIDDLE EAR us the ossicles—the malleus, the incus, and the stapes. The head of the malleus, and the body and short process of the incus, are situated higher than the upper margin of the membrane, and occupy what is called the upper tympanic cavity or attic. Along with their attachments and some folds of mucous membrane they help to subdivide this cavity into a number of pockets, the lowest of which is known as Prussak's space, which has as its outer boundary the membrana flaccida, or Shrapnell's membrane. Inflammation and suppuration aft'ecting this region is apt to be very intractable and troublesome to treat. On the inner wall of the tympanum will be found the fenestra ovalis or opening into the vestibule, and the fenestra rotunda or opening into the cochlea, Ijoth of which are closed by membranes. The roof of the tympanum, or tegmen tympani, is a thin layer of bone forming- part of the middle cranial fossa, which is in contact with the dura mater on its upper surface. Just opposite to the middle and anterior part of the tympanic membrane is a smooth, rounded projection known as the promontory. In front of this we meet with the entrance to the osseous part of the Eustachian tube, while behind and above the fenestra ovalis is part of the bony canal which contains the facial nerve. An opening in the upper part of the posterior wall of the tympanum communicates with the mastoid antrum, a cavity of varying size. Its roof is continuoxis with that of the tympaniun, and is separated from the dura mater by the same plate of V)one, which is sometimes very thin. The floor of the antrum is at a lower level than its opening of communication with the tympanum, and hence secretion does not drain with ease from it. Lower down and more superficially are a number of small pneumatic spaces known as the mastoid cells, and occupy- ing the mastoid process. They vary much in size in difterent individuals and at different periods of life. The relations of the middle ear to neighbour- ing structures, such as the brain, the sigmoid sinus, the facial nerve, and the inner ear, require very careful consideration when we remember the possibility of the extension of inflammation to them, but they will require more detailed notice when the complications of chronic suppurative inflammation and their operative treatment are under consideration. The somewhat complex cavities forming the middle ear are lined throughout with mucous membrane, which is continuous through the Eustachian canal with that of the naso-pharynx. The diseases of the middle ear will be seen to be due to varying degrees of catarrh or inflammation of this mucous lining, and the disturbances of the function of the organ of hearing associated with them are generally caused by the patho- logical changes which result from these processes. Middle ear inflammation is of importance, not only on account of its great frequency, but also be- cause it is liable to aftect permanently the function of the organ to a very serious extent, or to produce complications of an exceedingly grave character. According to Gruber, symptoms of otitis media were present in about two-thirds of all car cases seen in his out-patient clinic. While acute affections probably account for only a small proportion of these, it is evident that the bulk of them must have commenced, at some period or other, with more or less acute symptoms. Classification.—Various attempts have been made to classify acute inflammations of the middle ear on a clinical or pathological basis, but without any very practical result. It is very usual to divide them into acute catarrh and acute suppurative inflammation, and it has also been proposed to separate them into a mild type and a severe type. These divisions do not seem to cover quite the same ground, for an acute catarrh, as often seen in children, may be very severe, while a suppurative attack may be of quite a mild type. Although the onset of a serous or purulent discharge does establish a fact which gives a distinct indication for treat- ment, yet the classification into perforative and non-perforative cases does not find favour, for it gives no real information as to the course or severity of the individual case. We propose, therefore, on clinical grounds, to subdivide acute otitis media under the following- headings :— 1. Acute catarrh of the middle ear without eftusion. 2. Acute inflammation of the middle ear with muco-serous eff'usion. In this a perforation may or may not occur. 3. Acute purulent inflammation of the middle ear. In this a perforation always occurs. As will be seen later on, these are really different stages of the same disease, and any individual case may stop short at the earlier stages, or may pass through them with such rapidity that it is only the latter stage that is recognised. It is not uncommon to find that authors devote a separate chapter to the consideration of inflammation of the membrane (myringitis). Primary myringitis may be produced by direct exposure or injury of the membrane, or may follow eczema of the meatus, extension of in- flammation in the external auditory canal, or may result from foreign bodies or plugs of wax pressing- on the membrane, but it is doubtful if the inflammation so set up can be limited for any length of time to the membrane. We shall therefore consider acute inflammation of the membrane as in reality an inflammation of the cavity of the tympanum, possibly diflTering somewhat in extent and degree. Causes.—Acute middle ear catarrh is common in damp, cold climates. It is frequently met