BROTH 32 {Food in Convalescence); Post-Mortem Methods (Cultivation Media, Beef Broth). BrOUSSaiSism.—The doctrine of patho- logy and therajjentics introduced by Franfois Joseph Victor Broussais (born 1772, died 1838) ; in it great stress is laid upon irritability, and especially that of the mucous membrane of the digestive tract. See Brunonian System. Brow Agfue.—Frontal (trigeminal) neur- algia, especially when malarial. See Nerves, Neuralgia. Brow Cases. See Labour, Diagnosis AND Mechanism {Brow Presentations); Labour, Management (Broiv). Brown Atrophy. — A degenerative change in the myocardium, met with in chronic valvular disease, etc. See Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Morbid Processes, Atrophy). Brown Induration. — A state of passive, mechanical congestion of the lungs, met with commonly in heart disease, and also from the pressure of tumours; the lungs are large, " russet-brown" in colour, and show an increase in the connective tissue which they contain. See Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Passive Hi/percpviia). Brown ism. See Brunonian System. Brown - Seq uard's E pi lepsy. — The convulsive phenomena which follow certain experimental lesions, such as hemisection of the spinal cord, division of the sciatic nerve, etc. See also Epilepsy {Etiolofiy). Brown-Sequard's Paralysis.— The syndrome due to unilateral lesions of the spinal cord {e.g. in syphilis, tumours, hajmor- rhages, etc.), with paralysis on the same side as the lesion, and cutaneous anajsthesia on the oppo- site side. See Spinal Cord, Medical {Brow7i- Sequard Amesthesia). Bruch, Membrane of. See Iris AND Ciliary Body {Anatomy). Brucine.—An alkaloid derived from the Strychnos nux vomica, acting as a local anaesthetic. See Alkaloids ; Nux Vomica. Bruises. See Medicine, Forensic {Kinds of Wounds) : Knee-Joint, Injuries of {Bruises). Bruit.—A name given to various sounds (murmiirs) heard on auscultation over the heart, great vessels, lungs, oesophagus (stricture), and viterus (pregnant or with fibroid tumours). The bruit d'airain is the metallic echoing sound heard in pneumothorax ; the bruit de cuir neuf is the " new leather" creaking murmur heard in fibrinous pericarditis; the bruit de (liable is the "humming-top" murmur or venous hum heard in ana;mia and exophthalmic goitre ; the bruit de drapeau is a dry rale due to the vibra- tion of bronchial casts in fibrinous bronchitis; the bruit de galop is a sign of muscle failure of the heart, and consists of a triple rhythm of the cardiac sounds (double first sound and accentu- ated second); the b^ynt de moulin is a splashing, churning sound met with in pneumopericardium*; the br^dt de pot fele, or cracked-pot sound, is that heard, on percussion, over large thin-walled pulmonary cavities, and best with the mouth open; and the bruit de souffle is the common "bellows murmur" heard in endocarditis, etc. Brunner'sGlandS.—Branched tubular glands of the duodenum discovered by Brunner (1653-1727), a Swiss anatomist. See Intestines, Diseases of {Anatomical and. Physiological Con- siderations) ; Physiology, Digestion {Structure of Alimentary Canal); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Anatomy, etc.). Brunonian System.—A theory of medicine founded by Dr. John Brown or Bruno, a Scots physician (1735-88), according to whom physical life and disease were due to a peculiar excitability (or incitability); excessive excita- bility produced sthenic diseases, and defective led to asthenic ones. It was opposed to the practice of blood-letting. Brussa. See Balneology {Tiorkey). Bryg'muS.—Chattering of the teeth. BryOCytiC.— A disease characterised by cell proliferation is said to be bryocytic, e.g. syphilis and cancer. Bryonia.—The root of Bryonia alba and B. dioica, containing a glucoside or bitter principle (bryonin); it is official in the LTnited States; it is used (rarely now) as a hydragogue cathartic and (externally) as a vesicant ; the Tinctura Bryonies is given in doses of 2 to 10 fl. dr. Buboes. See Venereal Disease {Soft Sores, ComjMcations). See also Groin; Plague: Rheumatism ; Skin Diseases ; Syphilis ; etc. Bubonic Plag^ue. See Plague. Bubonocele.—Any swelling in the in- guinal region, but more especially a hernia. See Hernia. BUCCO-.—As a prefix " bucco- " signifies " relating to the mouth," and is used in such combinations as bucco-labial, bucco-pharyngeal, etc. Buchu Folia.—The leaves of the Bar- osvia hetulina, the official preparations of which are the Infusum Buchu (dose, 1 to 2 fl. oz.) and the Tinctura Buchu (dose, i to 1 fl. dr.); it is used as a mild diuretic and vehicle for other