lUlONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHIECTASIS 31 thought tliat there was a single cavity. The results are not often encouraging, because fre- quently multiple cavities have been foruid where one has been diagnosed. There is some danger of septic absorption into the surroimding tissues and the edges of the wound and sinus formed, owing to the putrid charactei' of tlie evacuated secretion. Indications for operation are found in the following signs :—(1) There must be evidence of a single cavity. (2) (iiven a single cavity, high fever and signs of ulceration of bronchi oi' of putrid absorption completely justify an opera- tion, consisting of resection of portion of one or two ribs and the drainage of the cavity. Com- plete recovery has sometimes resulted. BrOnchiecta.SiS. Vidf supra, Bronchi, I>Ro\(;niE( "rA>;is. BronchiOCrisiS. Se<' Tabes Duksaijs ( Bronchi (I I (ixes). BronchiolectasiS. SV^ Bronchi, i^liDNCHIKr'I'ASIS. Bronchiolitis. See Luno, Tubercu- losis OF {Pathological Anatomy) ; Tuberculosis {Morhid Anatomy, Lurigit). BronchiOSpasm. iSee Asthma (Nature and Etiology). Bronchitis. Vide supra, Bronchi, Bron- chitis. Bronchitis, Capillary. See Pneu- MON lA, (!iJN II 'A I. ((J out plica tions). BronchOCele. See Thyroiu Gland, Medical (Goitre). Broncholith.—A concretion or calcare- ous I'nriiiatiou in a bronchial gland or tube. Bronchophony. -The sound of the voice heard l:)y means of the stethoscope placed over the course of the trachea and bronchi; also the same sound heard, as a pathological condi- tion, over lung tissue in a morbid (consolidated) state. See Chest, Clinical Investigation of (Amcultation) ; Pneumonia, Clinical (Physical Signs). BronchophthiSiS.— t'ulmonary phthi- sis commencing in ulceration of the smaller bronchi. Bronchopleurisy.—The association of lironchitis with pleurisy. See Bronchi, Bron- chitis ; Pleura, Diseases of. Bronchopneumonia. — Inflamma- tion of the lungs originating in the smaller bronchi ; catarrhal pneumonia. See Alcohol (Clinical Uses of); Bronchi, Bronchitis ; Burns AND Scalds (Pespiratory Complications); Pneu- monia, Bacteriology : Pneumonia. Clinical : PuIjSE (in Pneumonia); Rickets (Complications); Typiiuin Kevei! (Complications and Secjuelo'). Bronchorrhagfia.— Hicmorrhage from the bronchi. See H.lmoptysis. Bronchorrhcea. — Chronic bronchial catarrh with excessive seci'etion. See Bronchi, Bronchitis {Clinical Varieties); Bronchi, Bron- chiectasis ; Thyroid Gland, Medical (E.roj)/'- tlialmic (loitre, Pespiratory System). Bronchoscopy.—'I'hc use of the bron- choscope for the inspection of the interior of the bronchi, for the detection and removal of foreign bodies therefrom ; it may I)e passed through the mouth aiifl larynx or (better) through a tracheo- tomy wound : its use has been recommended and perfectt'd by Killian. Bronchotome. — An instrument em- ployed in post-mortem examinations for laying open the brom-liial tubes. BronchOtomy. - An operation some- times performed for the )-emoval of foreign bodies from the large bronchi; in posterior bi'oncho- tomy, resection of some of the ribs between the scapula and the spinid eolunm is carried out. Broncho-vesicular Breathing:. —The type of breath sound normally heard in the interscapular region and over the manubrium sterni; heard over other parts of the lung it may indicate early tubercular disease. See Chest, Clinical Investigation of. Bronzing^ of Skin. See Adrenai, Glands, Addison's Disease ; Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms, The Slcin) ; New-born Infan'i- (Winckel's Disease, Bronzed Hcematuric Disease) : Pediculosis (P. Corporis); Pregnancy, Physio- logy {Local Changes, Abdominal Wall); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Actinic Bronzing, etc.); Thyroid Gland, Medical (E.rophtlialmir Goit re, Pigm en tat ion). Broom Tops. — Broom tops (Scoparii Cacumina) are used as a diuretic medicine, in association with other drugs, in dropsical con- ditions, but not in acute nephritis; they contain a diuretic principle {Scojmrin), and an alkaloid (Sparteijie) ; the official preparations are the Infusum Scoparii (dose, I to 2 fi. oz.) and the Succus Scoparii (dose, I to 2 fl. dr.). Brophy's Operation.—A modifica tion of the plastic operation for the cure of cleft palate and hare-lip introduced by Truman Brophy ; it consists in early operation (within the first three months of life), in correcting first the cleft in the palate, and in separating the mucous membrane over each malar process (so as to permit approximation). Broth. See Bouillon : Invalid Feedinc;