220 CONSUMPTION Consu m ption.—A wasting away, especi- ally that due to tubercular disease of the lungs; galloping consumption is the name applied to the more rapidly advancing form of phthisis. See Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Ch ro7iic DiaTThwa,, Consumptive Bowels^ j Lung, Tuberculosis of. Conta.g'ion.—This word (contagion),from the Latin contingo, I touch, is often used almost as a synonym of infection ; but, strictly speaking, it means the communication of a disease from one person to another, directly (immediate) or indirectly (mediate, or by a third person), by means of a " particulate or sensible material " or " contagium"; the same disease is produced in the second person as in the first, and it also has the same power of being passed on, by con- tagion, to another person. See Typhus Fever {Etiology). Continued Fever.—A now little used name for a fever in which the temperature varies little during the twenty-four hours, but which steadily progresses (without intermissions) towards its height, and thereafter slowly declines, or may, when at its height, terminate fatally ; it was applied to relapsing, typhus, typhoid, and other fevers; such terms as simple contitiued, malignant continued, miasmatic continued, and ardent continued fever are practically obsolete. See Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of (Contimied). Contracted Kidney. See Nephritis {Henal Cirr-kosis). Contraction. See Physiology, Tissues (Muscle, Physical Characters, Co7itraction) ; Labour, Retention of Placenta (Hour-glass Contraction of Uterus); Labour, Prolonged (Pelvic Deformities, Contraction). ContractU re.—Permanent contraction (e.g. of a muscle) with rigidity, after convul- sions, paralysis, or rheumatism ; it is sometimes distinguished as hysterical, myopathic, neuro- pathic, or paralytic. See Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels (Paralysis, Rigidity); Brain, Tumours of (Symptoms, Tonic Spasm); Brain, Cysts of (Porencephaly); Facial Nerve, Para- lysis OF (Symptoms, Contracture); Hip-Joint, Diseases of (Neuro-Arthropathies); Hysteria (Motor Disorders, Paralysis and Contractures); Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of (Hysterical Contractures); Joints. Diseases of (Impaired Mobility, Contracture); Knee-Joint, Diseases OF (Deformities following Disease, Contracture); Malingering (Ccyntractures); Tetany (Synonyms and History). Contraindication.—The condition or state of the patient which indicates that some drug or some method of diagnosis or treatment cannot safely or with benefit be employed. Centre-Coup.—-The effect of a blow (e.g. a contusion of brain substance or a fracture of a bone), produced either exactly opposite to or at a considerable distance from the site of the stroke. See Brain, Surgery of (Con- cussion). Contrexeviiie. See Balneology (France, Calcareous); Mineral Waters (Earthy and Calcareous). Control. See Physiognomy and Expres- sion (Expression of Brain Faculty, Control). Control Experiment.—An experi- ment made simultaneously with another, in which all the conditions, save one, are the same; a check or test experiment. Contusions. Causes 220 Morbid Anatomy ..... 220 Clinical Features .... 221 Treatment ...... 222 Medico-Legal Aspects .... 222 Definition.-—A contusion may be defined as a traumatic laceration of the subcutaneous soft tissues of a part, without solution in the con- tinuity of the skin. When the integument gives way a contused ivound results. Causes.—The force producing a contusion is always applied by a Hunt object, is momentary in its action, and immediate in its effects. It may be in the form of a direct blow acting per- pendicularly to the surface, as in the case of a stroke with a stick, or a blow with the closed fist; or the force may impinge obliquely, as when a spent shot glances off the body, or a carriage wheel grazes a limb in passing. The damage resulting from a " percussing" force acting at right angles to a part is more or less localised to the seat of impact, but may extend deeply ; while the effects of an obliquely directed stroke tend to be more diffuse and superficial. At the same time there may be much tearing of the subcutaneous tissues from the latter form of violence. On the other hand, a part may be contused by "pressure," as when a limb is squeezed be- tween buffers, or crushed by a waggon wheel passing over it. The resulting lesions are more widespread and deeper than in the case of injuries by percussion. Morbid Anatomy.—Three degrees in severity of contusions are recognised. In the first degree or contusion with ecchymosis there are small, interstitial, petechial hsomor- rhages resulting from the rupture of minute blood-vessels in the skin, with slight oedema of the whole of the injured part. The effused blood is as a rule spontaneously and rapidly reabsorbed. Second degree or contusion with extravasation