92 CHEST, INJURIES OF displaced backwards and behind the gladiolns, and is reduced when possible by placing the patient on the back, putting the knee between the shoulders, and pressing the ribs and gladiolus downwards. Sometimes it is impossible to reduce the displacement, and unless the manu- brium is giving rise to uncomfortable pressure symptoms, operative interference is unnecessary. The ensiform cartilage may be driven backwards towards the spine by direct violence, and from pressure on the stomach vomiting may become so persistent that an operation to replace the displaced cartilage becomes a necessity. It is well to bear in mind that in both fractured ribs and sternum the intercostal and internal mammary arteries have been injured and the patients have died from fatal hccmorrhage. Compound fractures of the ribs and sternum are dealt with in exactly the same way as com- pound fractures elsewhere. It is sometimes necessary to remove portions of rib in such circumstances, and the pleural cavity is as a rule penetrated, and therefore care must be taken to ensure careful drainage. 3. The Viscera.—Wounds of the lung lead to various symptoms, according to their extent, and may be produced by simple concussion, fractured ribs, stabs by knives, swords, and such like weapons, or by gunshot wounds or any projectiles having sufficient force to pene- trate the chest-wall. Hfemoptysis, emphysema, pneumothorax, htemothorax, are the symptoms which occur soon after an accident, while some days after an injury to the viscera we may have pneumonia, abscess of the lung, bronchitis, gangrene, or hernia of the lung. Hemoptysis to a slight extent may occur in concussion or slight injury to the substance of the lung by a broken rib, and is frequently accompanied by emphysema, which consists in the air passing into the cellular tissue through the opening in the lung, and is diagnosed by placing the hand over the chest and feeling the crackling caused by the air in the cellular tissue. Where the wound in the lung is extensive, as by a sword tlirust, the emphysema may extend over the whole body, and the patient may become unrecognisable. This condition, however, is not very common. The treatment of moderate emphysema consists in strapping the chest in cases of fracture and dressing the wound antiseptically where it has occurred from a stab. Where, however, the emphysema is general, free incisions must be made into the cellular tissue to allow the air to escape, not forgetting the importance of the incisions on each side of the larynx, as the pressure in that region is so great as to threaten suffocation, and patients have died from neglect of this precaution. Pneumothorax.—In some cases of injury to the lung, instead of emphysema occurring, the air rushes into the pleural cavity, compressing the lung and giving rise to the most distressing dyspnoea, which is relieved by passing a trocar and canula into the pleural cavity and allowing the air to escape, having previously of course used antiseptic treatment for the skin. After the air has escaped a rubber tube with a flange (to prevent its passage into the chest) is intro- duced and antiseptic dressings applied. Hmviothorax.—In many cases in addition to air in the chest a large quantity of blood may exist from injury to the vessels in the lung. Where blood alone is extravasated the condition is called hsomothorax ; where both air and blood are present it is called hsemo-pneumothorax. These cases are generally so serious that no interference is possible, and patients generally die from the extensive hasmorrhage. Venesec- tion is recommended in cases of hajmorrhage in order to produce faintness and possible arrest of the bleeding. A certain number of cases recover from arrest of hfemorrhage and absorp- tion of the fluid. The balance of surgical experience points to the importance of not interfering unless there is evidence of empyema. Where there is a wound into the chest with free hoemorrhage the question of opening up the wound, turning out the clots, looking for the bleeding vessel or vessels, and if possible secur- ing them, must be considered and carried out in certain cases. Sometimes the haemorrhage is so great on turning out the clots from the chest that it is better to stuff" the cavity with gauze. Traumatic hernia of the lung consists in the protrusion and often the strangulation of a portion of the lung through a wound in the chest-wall. It is usually met with in wounds which open into the pleural cavity without in- volving the lung itself. The wound in the chest-wall must be of a certain size to allow of the protrusion of the lung, and it must correspond in position with one of the borders of the lung or with the corner of one of its lobes. The hernia may take place as soon as the penetrat- ing weapon is withdrawn, or it may not take place for many hours after the injury. Violent expiratory movements have a good deal to do with its production ; part of the air expelled from the lung on the healthy side may be driven into the partially collapsed lung on the injured side, so that it becomes distended and may pro- trude at the wound. If, on the other hand, the lung itself is wounded, and especially if one of the bronchi has been opened into, the air simply escapes into the pleural cavity. In the first instance, it is easy to return the protruded portion of Imig, but after a time it tends to become strangulated, congested, oedematous, and irreducible, and may finally become gan- grenous and slough away. Healing is then quite satisfactory as a rule, the wound in the chest-wall is closed with scar tissue, and the lung remains firmly adherent to the parietes.