515 EAR: MIDDLE EAR, CHRONIC NON-SUPPURATIVE DISEA.SE or ossification of the ligamentous ring, or by deposit of new-formed osseous substance upon tlie inner surface of the footphxte, and a com- plete bony union of the wall of the oval window may exist (Politzer). The condition is thought by some to be due to a trophic lesion, as, especially in the later stages, little or no injection of the malleal vessels takes place on efficient inflation ; but this may be due to the fact that the vessels share in the atrophic process, or are constricted. The fact that ganglion cells are found in the lining mem- brane suggest that some change in them may pos- sibly interfere with nutrition. Trophic causes, however, will not account for bony anchylosis of the base of the stapes, a condition which points to some irritative periosteal caiise. Thoma, in his work on pathology, describes an atrophic catarrh in wliicli the mucous membrane becomes thinner and atrophied, and it must be allowed that such a process will most readily account for the condition found. With regard to the secondary afTection of the labyrinth, impairment of function may result simply from disuse ; liut in some cases, at all events, further changes must exist. It may be that the atrophic pi'ocess is continued to the cavity of the labyrinth with resulting decrease of secretion of the intra-labyrinthine fluids, the perilymph in particular. Some cases with symptoms closely resembling those seen in this group have been found by Toynbee, Politzer, Bezold, and others to be due to a primary affection of the labyrinthine bony capsule, producing anchylosis of the base of the stapes, without any pathological lesion of the lining membrane. Symptoms and Sigmt.—The onset of the deaf- ness is so insidious that, as a rule, the patient does not come for treatment until the disease is well advanced. In some a slight hissing tinnitus was present for some time before the deafness was noticed; a gradual decrease of hearing in one ear, usually the left, being unnoticed or disregarded until the other ear became seriously affected, both ears then gradually becoming worse. In other cases the patient's friends are the first to notice the diminution in function. The tinnitus is often not distressing, the patient getting absolutely vised to it; in others it is one of the most prominent features. When the disease has advanced considerably in both ears paracusis is a marked symptom. The hearing is usually worse during a cold. Occasionally the disease appears to stop short, or to progress very slowly, when the later stages are reached, and complete stone deafness is never observed. On inflation a vei-y slight improvement in hear- ing is produced, but soon disappears; and, as before mentioned, little or no resulting injection of the malleal vessels can be seen. In some the inflation may not be felt in the ear, although the diagnostic tube clearly indicates I that it has been successful. Attacks of true ; auditory vertigo are not experienced. The I Eustachian tube shows no signs of obstruction, but, on the contrary, seems unusually patent, the air entering very clearly and dryly. On examination the meatus is usually clear of ceru- men—in fact, patients sometimes complain that their ears seem dry. On looking at the mem- brane the absence of gross changes is very marked ; it often looks unusually bright, clear, and thin, with little or no signs of depression. The membrane and malleus move freely with Siegle's speculum. The nose and naso-pharynx in the majority of cases appear perfectly normal; sometimes the nose may appear dry, the patient stating that a handkerchief is not often necessary, and the lining membrane of the naso-pharynx may appear thin, the lips of the Eustachian tube standing out boldly, but it is never dry and glazed. There appears to be no connection, as one would expect, between so-called atrophic rhinitis and this disease. Paleness of the soft pallet with a blush on each side is usually present (Urban Pritchai'd). Prognosis.—This is always extremely bad; no treatment has any power, apparently, to check its progress; the deafness goes from bad to worse, but may stop short at some point, absolute deafness never resulting, the patient being always aVjle to hear something. Diagnosis.—The age and sex of the patient, the insidious onset, the appearance of the mem- brane, the al)sence of Eustachian obstruction, freedom and dryness of air-entry on inflation, the slight improvement produced thereby, and absence of any cause in the nose or naso- pharynx, separate this from other middle ear diseases. The tuning-fork, etc., will distinguish it from internal, and in those cases in which internal ear results are produced by the tuning- fork the presence of paracusis will give the clue. In cases of primary disease of the labyrinthine capsule the pink lining membrane can be seen through the membrana tympani. Treatment.—As before stated, we have as yet no treatment which has any power to check the disease when once it has started. The general health of the patient must be put in the best possible condition. The local treatment is merely palliative, and even this must be used with extreme caution or the patient will be made distinctly worse. Occasional catheterisatif)n with injection of paroleine, or inflation with the bag, especially if a few drops of chloroform be previously introduced, produces a slight amount of improvement, and is a com- fort to the patient. The chloride of ammonium inhaler yjroduces little or no benefit, except that a tendency to colds is held in check. Massage with Siegle's speculum in the ordinary way must be very cautiously and gently applied, as in the great majority of cases it is distinctly detrimental. Too prolonged