CHOREA 134 —so far, at least, as the present methods of neuro-pathological research enable us to judge. Recent endocarditis, however, is found in a great majority of fatal cases of chorea. Some time ago the disease was supposed by some to be due to extensive capillary embolism, and this view was thought to be strengthened by the fact that the injection of starch granules into the carotid arteries in dogs produces choreoid movements. But most cases of fatal chorea show no signs whatever of such embolism. Moreover, "canine chorea" is essentially a differ- ent disease from chorea in the human subject. The nature of the choreic movements, together with their cessation during sleep, points strongly to their origin from some irritable condition of the motor cells of the cerebral cortex. Such a hypothesis is further strengthened by the frequency with which the symptoms are con- fined to one side and by the frequent presence of mental disturbance. For want of a better explanation, chorea is at present classified as a " functional" disorder of the nerve-cells. But there can be little doubt that some molecular or chemical change in the neuron underlies all so - called " functional" disorders, though as yet we are ignorant of the precise nature of such changes. It is not at all improbable that chorea in many cases may be due to a toxin, probably closely associated with the rheumatic poison, if not identical with it. That emotion frequently plays a part as an exciting cause is not antagonistic to such a theory, for the mental shock in such cases often merely precipitates an attack in an unstable or imperfectly developed nervous system already partially poisoned by a toxin in the blood. Endocarditis is as frequent in cases which have followed upon mental emotion as in those which have arisen spontaneously, and yet no one doubts that endocarditis is due to the existence of a poison in the blood. Endo- carditis is so common in chorea that we conclude there must be some close connection between the two, and the fact that chorea so often precedes the endocarditis shows that the latter cannot be the cause of the chorea. We are therefore again driven to the conclusion that some common cause must bring about both the chorea and the endocarditis. Diagnosis.—Ordinarily chorea can be dia- gnosed at a glance. The peculiar movements are quite characteristic, and the history of a recent onset distinguishes them at once from athetosis following cerebral palsy in early life, which is the commonest condition in which similar movements occur. The movements of athetosis have unfortunately been termed " post- hemiplegic chorea," but the diagnosis between the two conditions is usually easily made, not only from the " athetoid" character of the movements, but also from the presence of muscular rigidity in the athetotic limbs, with a history of some previous cerebral attack (vide "Athetosis," vol. i. p. 319). The rare condition called General Convulsive Tic ("Tic Generale") simulates chorea even more closely, but can be differentiated by observing the systematic nature of the move- ments in Convulsive Tic, the relatively long intervals of rest between the movements, the fact that the patient can always intermit them in order to execute voluntary actions, and the frequent presence of echolalia, coprolalia, or other ex- plosive utterances and of forced movements. Sometimes difficulty arises in the diagnosis of cases of "paralytic" chorea, where the out- standing symptom is loss of power in one arm. When a child between seven and twelve years of age is said to have gradually lost the use of one arm, without paralysis of leg or face, the disease, as a rule, is chorea. Careful observation in such cases never fails to reveal slight choreic movements in the affected limb. The few cases of chorea where the legs are chiefly affected may simulate ataxia of gait, but the choreic movements of the limbs in the sitting and recumbent posture are sufficient to differentiate the two conditions. Treatment.—The mental and motor symp- toms of chorea, together with the marked influence which emotion and exertion, mental or physical, have in exaggerating the choreic movements, make it obvious that a most im- portant element in the treatment of chorea consists in the removal of all causes of emotional excitement and physical or mental fatigue. The patient must not go to school. Lessons must be stopped at once and rest in bed should be insisted on, for several weeks at least, even in mild cases. When the patient is afterwards allowed up, this should only be for a short time each day, gradually lengthening the time spent out of bed. All sources of mental irritation must be avoided, and only such occupations should be permitted which interest the patient without fatigue or excitement. The child must not be frightened or threatened. A large airy room, if available, should be chosen for a bedroom, and cheerful companionship should be provided, such as that of the mother or of a judicious nurse, since mental depression might undo the good produced by rest. If there are other children in the house, they should not be allowed to go into the patient's room, lest they increase his mental and physical unrest. In cases with violent movements, care must be taken to prevent the patient from falling out of bed or injuring himself. This can be accomplished by laying the patient's mattress on the floor in a corner of the room, well padded with cushions or pillows, to prevent him from knocking himself against the wall. If bed-sores threaten, a water-bed should at once be procured.