CONCEPTION 202 ception is a blighted ovum, in which the gesta- tion sac remains but the embryo has either dis- appeared or was never formed. See Pregnancy, Physiology, etc. The words conception and false conception are also used in Psychology, with special meanings. Concha,. — Concha (from Gr. Koy^Ty, a cockle or shell) is the name given to the shell- like part of the external ear between the tragus, the anti-tragus, and the anti-helix; it is also given to various other parts of the body, e.g. in the turbinated bones, and elsewhere. Conchitis is inflammation of the aural concha. Condi nation. — A term, proposed by Duane, for tilting of the top ends of the vertical meridians of the eyes toward each other, as opposed to disclination (tilting away from each other). Concomitant Strabismus. See Strabismus {True, Non -paralytic or Con- comitant). Co n C reSCe nee. — The embryological process by which it is supposed that the edges of the embryonic disc of the ovum at its posterior end are turned in, and the primitive streak carried forward and lengthened. Concretions.—Deposits or calculi, con- sisting, as a rule, of carbonates and phosphates of lime, and forming in various organs (gall- bladder, intestine, urinary bladder, prostate, kidney, heart) and parts (joints, teeth, thrombi, etc.). See Colon, Diseases op {^Dilatation); Gout ; Stools, Intestinal Sand. Concussion. — The disturbance, even the complete abolition for a time, of the functions of the brain {cerebral concussion) or of the spinal cord [spinal concussion), or of both, due to violent shocks, falls, blows, etc., which apparently shake or jar the nervous tissues without causing other than microscopical lesions of the parts. See Brain, Surgery of {Concussion); Medicine, Forensic (Wounds or Injuries, Fractures of Skull); Unconsciousness {Concussion). Condai Water. See Balneology {Spain and Portugal); SoDiUM and its Salts {Sulphate). Condensed Milk. See Infant Feed- ing {Condensed Milk); Milk {Dietetic, Con- densed). Condenser.—An apparatus for condens- ing the light, Abbe's or Lieberkiihn's condenser {see Microscope), or a distillate, or electricity. Conder's Process. — A method for disposal of sewage by subsidence and precipita- tion ; water enters the sewer through a ferro- meter containing sulphate of iron and a slice of lemon; the method is in use at Chichester barracks. Condiments.—Accessory articles of diet which make food appetising, and so probably increase the flow of gastric juice. Some of them are aromatics {e.g. nutmeg), others are alliaceous (mustard), others acid (vinegar), others salty (common salt), others sugary, and others are the peppers. Condom.—A thin bag of indiarubber, caoutchouc, or goldbeater's skin worn over the male organ during coitus to prevent impregna- tion taking place; a check; said to be derived from the name of the inventor (Conton). Conduct.—"The active or dynamic ad- justment of self to circumstances" (C. Mercier, Hack Tuke); upon deviations from the normal of conduct or behaviour the alienist has often to base his diagnosis of insanity. See Insanity, Its Nature and Symptoms {Mental Functions, Conduct). CondurangfO.—The bark of Condurango bianco, a South American vine, once recom- mended for cancer and still used in syphilis (not official). Condyle.—Condyle (from Gr. kovSvAos, a knuckle) means a rounded process on a bone which serves to form part of the articulation between it and another bone, e.g. the condyles of the femur, of the lower jaw, of the occipital bone. Condylotomy is osteotomy of one or both condyles of the femur. Condyloma. See Syphilis {Secondary); Umbilicus, Diseases of {Syphilis) ; Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Syphilis). Condy'S Fluid. — A red fluid said to contain 8 grains of permanganate of potash to the fluid ounce of distilled water. See Disin- fection ; Manganesium ; Potassium and its Salts {Potassii Permanganas). ConfectiO.—A paste containing a dis- agreeable medicine compounded with sugar or honey to make it less nauseous, e.g. the Confectio Sennce; an electuary or conserve. See Pre- scribing. Confinement.—Detention at home or in a hospital or asylum on account of illness ; it is usually regarded as synonymous either with childbirth, lying-in, delivery (accouchement), or with forcible detention in a lunatic asylum. See Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Probable Date of Confinement). Confluent. See Smallpox {Clinical Variations, Variola Conjluens). Confusion. *S'ee General Paralysis {Symptoms, Stadium Acutum); Meningitis,