COCCYGODYNIA 172 3. Neuralgia affecting the terminal branches of the sacral plexus. Probably most cases are of this natvire. Diagnosis should be made by placing one finger in the rectum and the other over the skin surface of the coccyx, when pain is pro- duced on pressing the bone or structures round it, according to the part chiefly affected. Symptoms.—Pain limited to the coccyx and neighbourhood, and aggravated by such acts as sitting or walking. Prognosis is favourable, although many months may elapse before the pain completely subsides, and the condition is prone to recur. Treatment.—Any concomitant pelvic disease must be first attended to. If thei-e are indica- tions of a primary inflammatory condition of the parts affected the patient should be kept at rest in bed, preferably in the lateral posture. Pain may be relieved by lead and opium fomen- tations, morphia hypodermically, or a sup- pository of morphia and belladonna. Laxatives should be administered to facilitate defsecation, which is frequently painful. In cases associated with dislocation or ankylosis of the sacro-coccygeal joints, massage and mani- pulation should be tried before resorting to operative measures. If there is no lesion of the bone the faradic current gives excellent results, one pole being applied over the sacrum and the other over the coccyx. As a rule two to twelve applications are sufficient. The application of the actual cautery over the origin of the sacral nerve may be resorted to if other means fail to give relief. The cases recorded as occurring in men and children have been successfully treated by anti-rheumatic remedies. Operative Treatment.—In obstinate cases Sir J. Y. Simpson recommended and carried out the subcutaneous division, by a tenotomy knife, of the muscular and fibrous tissues inserted into the sides and apex of the coccyx, with the object of preventing any movement of the bone. When the condition is associated with a lesion of the bone and unrelieved by other methods, Nott first suggested the complete extirpation of the bone. To carry this out a vertical incision is made over the posterior surface of the bone; the apex is then pulled well back, allowing the muscular attachments to be freed; finally, the bone is separated at the sacro-coccygeal point. Both these latter methods are rarely necessary, and cases are recorded where the pain recurred even after operative treatment. Coccyx.—The four terminal vertebrte or the single bone formed by their coalescence; the name is derived from Gr. kokkv^, a cuckoo, it being supposed that the bone has the shape of that bird's beak. See Coccygodynia ; Labour, Prolonged ; Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs (Pelvic Articulations); Rectum, Diseases of (Kraske's Operation); Rectum, Diseases of the (Coccygeal Pain). Cochin China Ulcer. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Tropical Phagedoena). Cochineal. See Coccus. Cochlea.—Part of the internal ear, a spiral cavity (Gr. KoxXtas, a snail) in the osseous labyrinth (osseous cochlea), with membranous canals in it, one of which is named the scala media or membranous cochlea, and contains the organ of Corti. See Brain, Physiology of [Eighth Nerve); Physiology, Hearing {Internal Ear). Cochleare.—A spoon. aSVc Prescribing. This measure varies somewhat, containing from h fl. dr. to ^ fl. oz. of fluid, variations which are indicated by the expressions tea-spoon, dessert - spoon, and table - spoon. Cochleatim means " by spoonfuls." Cock's Operation.—A method of per- forming external urethrotomy. See Urethra, Diseases of {Stricture, Treatment). Codes. — Having one eye ; monoculus, monophthalmus; derived from Gr. KVKkwtl/, a Cyclops or Round-Eye. Cocoa. — The beverage made from the seeds of Theohroma cacao; also the fruit of Cocos nucifera. See Diet {Beverages); Invalid Feeding {Cookery in Diabetes, Cocoa-Nut Cakes): Physiology, Food and Digestion {Tea, Coffee, Cocoa). Cocoon Silk. See Dermatitis Trau- matica ET Venenata {Eczema, Causal Agents, Animal). Cod amine. — One of the alkaloids (CogHjgNO^) existing in opium {q.v.). Codeina.—An alkaloid (methylmorphine, Cj^Hjg(CHg)N03, H2O) obtained from opium or morphine. The dose of Codeina and of Codeinse Phosphas is to 2 grains. There is an official preparation of Codeinse Phosphas, the Syrupus CodeincB, which contains a \ grain of the phosphate in each fluid drachm (dose, J to 2 fl. dr.) See Alkaloids ; Analgesics ; Opium ; Pharmacology. Cod-liver Oil.—Oleum Morrhtue or the oil extracted from the liver of the cod {Gadus morrhua). It has a complex composition, con- taining olein, palmitin, myristin, stearin, fatty acids (oleic, palmitic, and stearic), trimethyl- amine, traces of iodine and bromine, and alka- loids, such as morrhuine (CjtiHgjNj), aselline (C25H32N4), and gaduine. Its fishy smell prevents its external use, but it is given internally frequently in phthisis, tubercular affections, rickets, etc. The dose is 1 to 4 fl. dr., and it