90 CHEST, DEFORMITIES OF sternum is thus carried forwards. The trans- versely constricted chest is a very common form of deformity. The chest shows a depression or groove which, commencing at the level of the xiphisternum, passes outwards and downwards till it shades away towards the mid-axillary line. The transversely constricted and pigeon deformi- ties have essentially the same causal factor—an impediment to the entrance of air into the lung during the developmental period of life, while the chest-wall is soft and yielding. Given an aiiection of the respiratory tract which will interfere with the free entrance of air, such as enlarged tonsils, bronchitis, whooping-cough, etc., and either deformity may result. The re- spiratory obstruction causes inspiratory dyspnoea with increased efforts at inspiration. The chest and lung are more easily expanded above than below, hence when the diaphragm descends and the ribs at the upper part of the chest are drawn up, the lungs not expanding fully at their lower part, there is a tendency to foi-m a vacuum at the lower part of the chest, and the atmospheric pressure forces in the chest-wall and a sulcus is thus formed. The sulcus corresponds to the upper level of the abdominal organs which support the lower part of the chest-wall. The transversely constricted chest is thus developed. When the inspiratory dyspnoea has been more pronounced and more persistent, the deformity advances to the pigeon chest. Forced inspira- tion over-expands the upper thorax, protrusion of the sternum takes place, the atmospheric pressure forces in the lower part of the chest, producing the transverse sulcus and a bending back of the xiphisternum. From the altered position of the sternum the costal cartilages become straightened in front of their angles, and the greatest transverse diameter of the chest lies posterior to the normal position. The emphysematous chest is characterised by an increase in all the diameters of the sectional outline of the chest—from the ellipse the out- line assumes a circular form. Repeated and prolonged inspiratory efforts produce an over- distension of the lung; the lung becomes emphysematous. The lungs have become too voluminous to be accommodated within the fixed peripherte of the chest when in an ellip- soidal form, the fixed peripheraj assume a circular outline to give a greater contained area for the enlarged lungs. The outline of the chest is circular, there is an increase in all the diameters, the sternum is arched, the shoulders are raised, and the spine is arched; the chest is fairly described by the epithet " barrel-shaped." The enlargement of the chest may be confined to the parts above the level of the xiphisternum, but frequently the whole chest is affected, in which case the epigastric angle is markedly enlarged. Unilateral alteration in the shajie of the chest may be seen in a variety of conditions affecting the lung or pleura. A unilateral dilatation of the chest is rarely seen in the healthy side when disease impedes the action of the other lung. On the diseased it is markedly apparent by measurement or inspection in pleurisy with effusion, pneumo- thorax, and in cases of tumour of the lung. The intercostal spaces are obliterated, at times they may even bulge. Movement on the affected side is diminished, exaggerated on the sound side. Diminution of one side of the chest may form a very striking deformity. It may follow upon chronic fibroid and destructive changes taking place in one lung, or upon pleurisy with eff"usion or empyema. In pleurisy or empyema, while the fluid is present, the lung is collapsed ; if before the fluid be evacuated changes take place in the lung and pleura, preventing the expansion of the lung when the fluid ultimately becomes evacuated or absorbed, marked deformity results. The lung can no longer expand to fill up the affected side, the heart passes over towards the affected side, the opposite lung becomes emphy- sematous, and the atmospheric pressure forces in the chest-wall on the affected side. In such a condition there is marked deformity and diminu- tion on the affected side, and the heart is displaced towards it. Marked deformity of a similar nature may result in chronic fibroid phthisis. Local deformity of the chest-wall is frequently met. Local bulging or increase may be seen in circumscribed pleural effusions, in tumour of the lung, in hernia of the lung, in cardiac hypertrophy, in aneurysmal tumour. Local contractions or diminution of the chest- wall due to intrathoracic disease is seen in phthisis even without the formation of a cavity, though it is more marked if a vomica be present. Chest, Injuries of. Soft Parts . ..... 90 Ribs and Sternum . . . . .91 Viscera ....... 92 Surgical Affections of the Chest-Wall 1. Soft Parts.—Concussion and contusion of the chest without evidence of injury to internal organs are of frequent occurrence, and in many cases lead to no serious results, but it must be borne in mind that an injury which appeared slight at first may later give rise to alarming symptoms. In concussion from the buffers of a railway carriage or the pressure of part of an ordinary carriage on the chest-wall very little may be observed at the time, and later extensive hajmorrhage from an injured internal organ may lead to serious complications and death. In adults this is oftener observed than in children, as their chests, being more yielding, bear con- cussions much better. The shock from slight concussions is often much greater than might be expected, because the influence produced by them varies greatly both in adults and children, and cases are on record where a slight blow on