246 COUGH characteristic, and many more are easily traced to their origin. The difficulty in diagnosis is greatest where no obvious disease of the pharynx, larynx, ti-achea, bronchi, or lungs can be made out, nor of the heart or aorta. Such cases should not be too quickly set down as nervous. Repeated examination should be made of all possible sites of local irritation. In children the ears and the naso-pharynx shoidd be carefully examined, and the possibility of enlargement of glands of the tracheo-bronchial group must be borne in mind. The family history should also be inquired into, especially with reference to any tendency to tuberculosis or neurosis. Hj'sterical cough may be present in either children or adults. In women the possibility of pregnancy or of pelvic disease being re- sponsible must be considered. In adults, and especially in elderly patients, any evidence of feebleness of the circulation, such as weakness of the pulse or coldness of the extremities, is of importance. Treatment.—The treatment of cough due to diseases of the respiratory organs or of the heart and aorta will be found detailed under the appropriate headings. Excluding these, the throat will frequently be found to be the seat of irritation, and pharyngitis, enlarged tonsils, or elongated uvula will require local treatment. Gargles, sprays, pigments, pastilles, are all useful in suitable cases. The great benefit often to be derived from constitutional treatment, sea- bathing, and an outdoor life is not always sufficiently recognised. Inhalations are of value when the irritation proceeds from the larynx, and the use of the bronchitis kettle and copious warm alkaline drinks are most valuable adjuvants in all con- ditions where the cough is aggravated by scanti- ness or viscidity of the expectoration. " Ear " cough usually disappears immediately on the removal of the cause of the local irrita- tion, often a plug of wax or a foreign body, such as a bead, inserted in the ear by the patient. " Stomach" cough is to be treated by a suitable dietary, and the use of gastric sedatives such as bismuth and hydrocyanic acid. The barking cough of puberty is best treated by a plain but sufficient dietary, active out- door exercise, early hours, and the use of tonics. Sir Andrew Clark was in the habit of ordering the syrup of the bromide of iron, with small doses of arsenic. The danger attending the indiscriminate and injudicious use of sedatives and narcotics (especially opiates) in the treatment of cough, and the disastrous consequences which may result in young children and elderly patients especially, are pretty generally recognised. Nevertheless, it must not be forgotten that severe and prolonged coughing, coughing out of all proportion to the amount of the expectoration, if unrestrained, involves a great strain on the lung, and may result in serious mischief to the lung tissue. Where a sedative is required small doses of chloral or of the bromides are often preferable to opiates. Children are not infre- quently kept awake by an irritative cough which can be at once relieved by a few grains of chloral. The bromides are of value in all forms of paroxysmal cough, and ammonium bromide has long been a favourite remedy in pertussis. Some cases of pertussis are greatly relieved by antipyrin in doses of about 1 grain for each year of the child's age. In elderly patients a chronic cough associated with slight bronchial catarrh or congestion of the bases, and which has failed to benefit by the usual remedies, will often disappear under a course of digitalis in small doses. Strychnine is also of value in some of these cases. CoulOinb. — The quantity of electricity developed by a current of 1 ampere ; the amount produced by an electro-motive force of 1 volt acting for 1 second against 1 ohm of resistance; the practical unit of electric quantity; named after Coulomb, a French electrician. Counter Irritation.—The attempt to diminish some internal morbid action, such as inflammation of an organ, by applying irritation externally; "derivation by irritation." See Caustics ; Cautery. Counter Opening:.—A second opening made into an abscess cavity or other accumu- lation of fluid, usually at a distance from the first opening, in order more easily and thoroughly to drain the cavity. Country Fever.—A "continued ther- mic fever " occurring in the Carolinas, supposed to be due to the prolonged action of high tem- peratures, but often mistaken for malaria or typhoid fever; sunstroke (q-v.). Coup-de-SOleii. See Sunstroke. "Courses." See Menstruation and its Disorders (Teruiinolofii/). Court Evidence. See Medicine, Forensic {Post-mortem Rejwrts, and Examina- tions). CourvOisier'S Law. — Concerns the state of the gall-bladder in common bile-duct obstruction. It is that, with some exceptions, when obstruction of the common bile-duct is due to calculus the gall-bladder is not enlarged ; whereas in obstruction due to other causes, notably malignant disease, enlargement is the rule. Persistent jaundice, therefore, with a distended gall-bladder, according to this " law " indicates usually malignant disease. COUVeUSe. — An apparatus, usually a