106 CHILDREN, THE DEVELOPMENT AND CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF Friction is sometimes difficult to make sure of in young babies, and we have to depend on the catch in the breath and the evident pain accompanying it to confirm our diagnosis. A peculiar expiratory rhythm of the breathing is very characteristic of childhood. In this there is a loud, long expiration followed immediately by a short inspiration, then a pause, then the loud expiration again, and so on. The pause occurs, therefore, after inspiration, instead of, as normally happens, after expiration. This type of breathing is often noticed in normal children —especially when they are frightened. It is seen markedly in pneumonia, and in it the ex- pirations have frequently a grunting character. Vocal resonance can generally be obtained best in young children when they are crying. Percussion.—In children a light stroke should always be used in percussion. This is advisable, not only because it is less apt to annoy the child, but also because it is more likely to lead to accurate results. Strong percussion over a part often misleads by bringing out dulness or resonance from underlying organs. It is essential to see that the patient is sitting straight. Even a slight twist of the spine may give rise to distinct differences of percussion- note on the two sides of the chest. We must also beware of the differences due to abnormal curves of the ribs. Too much importance must not be attached to small areas of partial dulness in a child's chest; but at the same time it is to be remembered that the presence of fluid in the pleura often causes less absolute duhaess in children than might be expected. A well-marked cracked-pot sound can often be obtained in little children who have perfectly normal lungs—especially when they are crying. Urinary System. — In yoving children the bladder is higher than in later life. This must always be remembered in tapping the abdomen. Micturition.—The infant may pass water very soon after birth, but often does not do so for twelve or even twenty-four hours. During early infancy incontinence is the normal con- dition. Some infants have acquired a certain control over their bladder by eighteen months old; in others this comes considerably later. If, however, a child cannot retain his urine to a considerable extent, during his waking hours, by the time he has reached his third year, he may be said to suffer from incontinence. Incontinence of urine may be due in girls to a local malformation, and in both sexes to con- ditions of general debility or to various severe organic diseases of the nervous system. In the great majority of cases, however, it is a func- tional neurosis (see " Urination "). Retention of urine is much less common. It may be the result of extreme phimosis or of an impacted calculus. It may also be due to reflex irritation from an anal fissure, or from thread- worms, or to central causes, such as meningitis. Dysuria is not uncommonly due in infants, as well as in older children, to acid urine. In boys it is sometimes caused by phimosis or pre- putial adhesions. Renal colic from the passage of uric-acid crystals is occasionally met with. The Urine.—In infants some idea of the colour and amount of the urine passed may be obtained by examining the napkins; but, where it is possible, a proper specimen should be collected. The following table (Holt) gives the average amounts passed at different ages:— First twenty-four hours Second twenty-four hours Three to six days . Seven days to two months Two to six months Six months to two years Two to five years Five to eight years Eight to fourteen years 0 to 2 ounces ^ 3 a i> " )) 3 „ 8 „ 5 ,, 13 ,, 7 „ 16 „ 8 „ 20 „ 16 „ 26 „ 20 „ 40 „ 32 „ 48 „ Allmmirmria is sometimes present normally during the first ten days, owing, apparently, to the passage of uric-'acid crystals. In older children its significance is the same as in adults. All cases of albuminuria should be examined for traces of recent scarlatina. Honmaturia is found in acute nephritis, dis- eases of the bladder, and tumour of the kidney. It is also met with in infantile scurvy, purpiira, malaria, and various other conditions. Pyuria occurs in cystitis and pyelitis, in both cases usually with acid urine. Glycosuria is rarely foiind to any great degree in childhood. The Integumentary System.-—The colour of the skin as well as its state as to moisture and temperature must always be noted; and it must be examined for oedema, desquamation, and eruptions. Cyanosis setting in during an acute illness is often of great importance as indicating failure of the heart or the degree to which the lungs are afifected. It is also a characteristic symptom of various forms of blood - poisoning. When habitually present it generally indicates the presence of a congenital heart-lesion. The peculiar sallow tint of the skin in infantile scurvy, congenital syphilis, and other cachectic conditions, is often of great assistance in diagnosis. Undue perspiration in young children is usually a sign of rickets, although it also occurs in various forms of debility and in blood-poison- ing. A cold, clammy state of the extremities should draw attention to the state of the diges- tion and general health. The Temperature.—In young children it is generally more convenient to take the tempera- ture in the groin than in the axilla, because of the attitude they assume in sitting and the dis- position of their clothes. In important cases