CATHELECTROTONUS 72 the cathode is named cathelectrotonus or catelec- trotonus. See Anelectrotonus ; Physiology, The Tissues (Muscle and Nerve). Catheterisation.—The treatment of a stricture or obstruction in a canal (urethra, ureter. Eustachian tube, larynx, uterus) by the passage of a tube (or sound); catheterism ; also used sometimes of the insertion of a bougie between the foetal membranes and the uterine wall to provoke premature labour. See Catheters. Catheter Fever. See Catheters, Uses AND Dangers of (Semitic Poisoning). Catheters, Uses and Danglers of. Forms 72 Method of Use . . . . .72 Syncope and Shock . . . .73 Septic Poisoning ..... 73 See also Aseptic Treatment of Wounds {Sterilisation); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases (Examination); H^imaturia {Catheterisation oj the Ureters); Labour, Management of {Second Stage); Prostate Gland {Hypertrophy, Treat- ment) ; Puerperium, Physiology {Regulation of Bladder); Tabes Dorsalis (Visceral Disturb- ances) ; Urethra, Diseases of {Stricture, Treat- ment). Catheters are hollow tubular instruments for drawing off urine through the urethra. They are made of metal, of silk webbing impregnated with resins, so that they become rigid when cold and are made flexible by heat, of celluloid, and of red rubber. Usually they are about eleven inches in length, but those for prostatic cases may be fifteen or more. The size of English catheters is arbitrary, ranging from one-half to thirteen or fourteen. French ones are graduated from one to forty, the number indicating the circum- ference in millimetres. Flexible catheters are straight; metal ones are bent up for the last three inches (or four in the case of prostatic instruments), so as to form a quarter of a circle four inches in diameter. The English, so-called gum-elastic, catheters are provided with a metal stilet, and if bent to any shape when warmed retain it more or less perfectly after cooling. Catheters are cylindrical in shape, and made with a terminal opening at one end and a lateral one (the eye) at the other. The vesical end may be rounded, or it may have a flexible neck with a small terminal bulb; or it may be stiffened and bent upwards (coude or bicoude) to suit various conditions of the urethra. The end beyond the eye must be solid, so that there is no space to lodge decomposing urine. The eye must be sunken below the surface and have its edges well rounded, and the surface inside and out must be absolutely smooth, polished, and I aseptic, or it is not possible to keep the instru- ment clean or sterile. The other end, if the catheter is of metal, may be bent downwards to prevent urine spirting over the bed-clothes; if it is flexible the end should be enlarged so that it may not slip accidentally into the urethra. The ordinary ivory caps with which they are provided are a mistake; they merely harbour dirt. Catheters should be sterilised before being used, and should be kept either in aseptic catheter cases or wrapped up in a carbolised towel. Metal and rubber ones can be boiled or steamed, or soaked in carbolic solution of sufficient strength for some hours. The aseptic ones mentioned already can also be boiled with- out injury so long as they are kept straight, or they can be immersed in a saturated solution of boracic acid for twenty-four hours. Other kinds must be syringed through before and after using with solution of nitrate of silver or corrosive sublimate (1-500), or be exposed in an atmo- sphere of formalin vapour or of sulphurous acid gas for some hours. But if the interior is rough it is scarcely possible to make it aseptic. The lubricant must be soluble in water, such as boro- glyceride or lanolin. If it contains any form of grease the catheter cannot be cleansed without soda. The addition of an antiseptic to the lubri- cant is useful to prevent it from decomposing, but it is of no good so far as the lining membrane of the urethra is concerned. A weak antiseptic is useless, a strong one too irritating. Method of Use.—The best position for the patient is lying upon the back with the shoulders raised a little and the thighs slightly flexed and abducted. Clothing should be warm, but the umbilicus must be exposed. It is often easier to introduce a catheter if the patient is standing upright, but there is then always the risk of syncope. The glans penis and the prepuce should be washed first with soap and water. Then they should be sponged over with a solu- tion of nitrate of silver or corrosive sublimate (1-2000), and the fossa navicularis thoroughly- syringed out. The urethra harbours a number of micro-organisms which are always liable to be carried in by the catheter; but unless it is inflamed septic ones rarely penetrate beyond the fossa. If there is any urethritis the whole canal down to the membranous portion should be douched out with nitrate of silver (1-1000) by means of a syringe giving a recurrent stream before the catheter is introduced. Flexible instruments are always to be pre- ferred, and the softer they are the better. Metal instruments are for purposes of diagnosis or to overcome some difficulty which a flexible one cannot. A medium size (15 F.) should be tried first. If this fails a smaller one can be taken. When the canal is tortuous olivary catheters insinuate themselves the most easily. Coude ones follow the roof, and are therefore most