475 EAR, EXTERNAL, DISEASES OF If there be chronic scaly eczema of the meatus, appropriate treatment must be employed, so as to prevent recurrence of the boils. In persistently recurrent fnriniculi, general treatment may be very useful. We should regulate the diet, the use of stimulants, exer- cise, etc. The possibility of the patient suffer- ing from diabetes should be kept in view. If there be anaemia on the one hand, or plethora on the other, we must prescribe appropriate treatment. Arsenic may be employed in the persistent forms, while sulphide of calcium is a remedy worthy of trial. 4. Diffused Inflammation of the External Meatus—Otitis Externa Diffusa.—This includes a variety of conditions in which the cutaneous lining of the meatus, often including that of the tympanic membrane, is involved in the inflam- matory process. In the severe forms the peri- osteum of the bony meatus usually participates. The following varieties may be distinguished : (a) The eczematoiis form, which manifests itself in the acute stage by redness and swelling, with copious serous exiidation and epidermic formation. It is fi'equently based upon chronic scaly eczema of the meatus, or it may be an extension from eczema of the auricle. Iodoform, used in the treatment of middle ear disease, is sometimes responsible for it. Chronic eczema may bring about stenosis of the meatus from gi'adual thickening of its lining membrane. (h) Traumatic Otitis Externa. — This form may be due to (1) the insertion of foreign bodies in the ear, or, more commonly, imj^roper attempts to remove them; (2) the introduc- tion of irritating or caustic substances, such as scalding water, cold water, chemical and caustic substances ; (3) the unskilful use of instruments; (4) injuries, such as punctured wounds, fracture through the roof of the meatus, fractui-e of the tympanic plate. The latter may be caused by a fall from a height in which great force is applied to the chin ; the bleeding from the ear which takes place in this injury may be readily mistaken for fracture of the base of the skull. (c) Syj:)hilitic Otitis Externa.—This is a rare affection, and may occur either in the primary or in the secondary stage of the disease. It is usually seen in the form of condylomata and ulcerations, which are apt to leave cicatrices or pigmentaiy patches ; the former sometimes seriously contracting the canal. They usually occupy the outer orifice of the ear, appearing as a greyish-red mass of granulation tissue, yield- ing a foetid discharge. The ulcerations have a dirty-white appearance, circular in shape. {d) Parasitic Otitis Externa.—This form (otomycosis) is due to the growth and accumu- lation of fungi, generally belonging to the genus aspergillus, found chiefly on the inner third of the canal, and the outei- surface of the membrane. Damp dwellings generally favour their formation. The fungi seem to develop most frequently in a meatus where there has been an accumulation of epidei-mis or cerumen, forming a nidus for the germination and growth of the parasite. The two chief forms of fimgi found in the ear are, 1st, aspergilliis 7ii.f/ricans, forming a blackish collection; 2nd, aspergillus flavescens, in which the spores form yellowish points—the collections being whitish or greyish. These finigi adhere very tenaciously to the osseous walls of the canal and to the tympanic membrane ; and, when removed, the cutis be- neath is I'cd, presenting sometimes a bleeding tendency. If the fungi be not eradicated there is a great tendency to relapse of the inflammation with much pain. No doubt these collections of fungi ai'e sometimes regarded as simple ceruminous or epidermic accumulations. If these show a tendency readily to recur, and especially if there be considerable pain, microscopic examination should be made. (e) Croupous and Diphtheritic Inflammation.— This form is rare, and is generally associated with ^jharnygeal diphtheria, although it has been known to occur in the meatus indepen- dently of the throat. In this variety there is a dirty-greyish membrane, which adheres to the osseous meatus, and on the separation of the membrane a bleeding surface is exposed. (/) Secondary Otitis Externa. — In acute otitis media the lining of the osseous meatus is almost always involved; but the chronic middle ear purulent affections still more fre- quently involve the meatus. The mastoid antrum and mastoid cells are closely related to the postero-superior wall of the bony meatus, so that purulent collections not infrequently make their way through the layer of bone separ- ating these sjjaces and burrow imderneath the lining of the meatus, or, bursting through the lining, a fistulous communication with the meatus is formed. The greater part of the postero- superior bony wall may thus be destroyed, with or without the formation of sequestra. Even the whf)le of the bony tissue intervening be- tween the meatus and the anterior knee of the lateral sinus may in some cases be destroyed. These conditions show themselves by profuse discharge and by exuberant granulation tissue or polypi which spring up and frequently fill the meatus. Symptoms of these varioHs forms of Otitis Ex- terna.—In the acute stage the subjective symp- toms consist of pain, impairment of hearing and subjective sounds; they can scarcely be distin- guished from those attending the circumscribed variety of inflammation. Like the latter the pain is usually aggravated by movements of the jaw, or by pressure or traction upon the auricle ; and the hearing is impaired in proportion to the degree of swelling, and the amount of inflam- matory products, as well as to the degree in