154 CmCUMCISION from above downwards, and from behind for- wards with long dressing forceps, or other special forceps, the obliquity making the result- ing opening elliptical, and thus larger. Care must be taken that the glans is pushed back and is not included in the grip of the forceps. The anterior portion of the prepuce in the grasp of the forceps is then cut off by one sweep of a sharp bistoury. The outer layer retracts to a considerable extent, and care is, therefore, necessary not to include too much in the forceps, otherwise the limb of the penis is apt to be left devoid of skin, this leading to delay in healing and sub- sequent discomforts during erections. The inner layer still remains more or less enclosing the glans; it is to be divided by means of scissors in the mid-dorsal line almost to the level of the corona, or Roser's triangular flap may again be employed with advantage. The angles are then trimmed off up to the frenum, leaving a small fringe of mucous mem- brane surrounding the corona. Bleeding having been carefully arrested, the edges are brought together by means of a continuous or inter- rupted fine catgut suture, the former being pre- ferable, but in the case of infants sutures are frequently unnecessary. If the triangular flap has been employed, it is well for exactness of adjustment to make a small mid-dorsal snip in the outer layer to receive it. The after-treat- ment is as formerly described. Should the wound not heal by first intention, as is usually the case at the frenum, warm baths and a mild antiseptic ointment are grateful and promote healing. While these are the general principles upon which the operations should be conducted, there are, however, certain points to which further attention must be directed. First, As to the employment of the elastic band to prevent haemorrhage. When this is used, care must be taken before applica- tion to mark on the skin the exact position of the corona, Davies Coney's Modification. Otherwise One is apt to re- move either too much or too little of the pre- puce. Second, The forceps having been applied, it is usual to cut behind them. Davies Colley, how- ever, strongly recommends that the incision should be made in front of them, and the distal portion of the prepuce having been made tense, that the lower part of the incision should be made obliquely from behind forwards, so as to form a triangular flap of the middle of the under surface of the prepuce, which, he says, fits more accurately into the triangular gap with its apex at the stump of the frenum, which is formed on removal of the inner layer. Third, When an elastic band has been em- ployed in adults, primary union is frequently obtained and time saved by tying any obvious vessel, suturing and applying the dressing and bandage with moder- ate pressure before removal of the band. The subsequent swelling prevents further bleeding, but ex- perience is necessary, as a too tight application of the bandage before removal of the elastic band may cause such subsequent pressure as may lead to slight sloughing of the edges of the wound. Lastly, As to the question of operation in the case of gonorrhoea and inflamed hard, soft, and phagedenic chancres, the fear of infection and inflammation of the whole wound has frequently prevented this from being done when otherwise advisable; this, however, rarely occurs if the raw surfaces are well washed with carbolic lotion, any ulcerated surface not capable of removal being first dried and then touched with fuming nitric acid and iodoform rubbed in. In the case of great swelling and inflammation, a dorsal incision followed by disinfection and subsequent removal of the redundant flaps by means of scissors, no sutures being employed, often gives a better result than the more classical operation. Circumcision is usually devoid of risk, but fatal cases have been recorded from cellulitis, erysipelas, tetanus, and haemorrhage; while infection from syphilis and tubercle are not unknown as the result of ritual circumcision among the Jews. CirCUinclusion.—A variety of acupres- sure in which the pin is passed under the vessel and a wire loop over it. Circumduction.—A sweeping move- ment of a limb whereby it is made to describe a cone with its apex at the proximal extremity of the limb. Circumferences. See Labour,Physio- logy {Foetal Head Circumferences). Circumflex Nerve. See Nerves, Peripheral {Affections of Special Nerves, Cir- cumflex). Circumstantial Evidence.—Evi- dence inferred from circumstances affording a presumption but not a certain proof; opposed to direct or positive. See Medicine, Forensic (Wounds and Injuries). Circumvallate.—Surrounded with a rampart or raised border, e.g. a circumvallate placenta, or one in which the foetal membranes are attached at some distance from the peri- phery, leaving a circular ridge all round.