BRONCHI, DISEASES OF—BRONCHIAL (iLANDS II Treatment. — The treatment of enlarged Ijroncliial <ilands is that of the diseases which cause the enlargement. Prophylactic treatment is of great import- ance. After an attack of measles, whooping- cough, or influenza, when all risk of infection is past, a stay at the seaside, in a jmrt having a sheltered and southern aspect, is advisable, or else in some high and dry locality sheltered from the east wind. Clay soils are to be avoided. The clothing should be warm, woollen imderclothing being best, and the limbs should be entirely covered up. It is astonishing how much thoughtlessness is displayed in the ex- posure of the lower limbs of children to the air out of doors, both in health and after illness, in the erroneous belief that it is "strengthening" to them ! Special precautions should be taken with the food, all milk being boiled, unless the absence of tuberculous disease in the cows has been ascertained by inoculation. The dwelling and sleeping rooms should be large, light, well ventilated, free from dust, and the windows should be kept open at night. The medicinal treatment of these cases consists in the administration of some form of cod liver oil in combination with iron, or maltine, or the hypophosphites. The syrup of the iodide of iron, in doses of 5-10 minims three times a day, often produces marked diminution of enlarged glands in the neck, and has pro\x'd useful in cases where the bronchial glands were also enlarged. Sul- phide of calcium has been recommended in doses of one-twentieth to one-tenth of a grain every hour. Arsenic may be given in combina- tion with iron, (ir with a vegetable bitter. Iodine in the form of the tincture, in doses of one to three minims, may be tried. For the treatment of the cough and vomiting the writer advocates the employment of the glycerine of carbolic acid, in doses of one to three minims, in combination with cod liver oil and iron. Creasote in capsules is also useful. If complications arise, e.g. tuberculosis of the air-passages, erosion of the oesophagus, empyema, etc., they should be treated along the lines indi- cated under these headings. Tracheotomy is only of use when a caseous mass is impacted in the trachea or glottis. Bronchitis Definition- . . . . . .11 InTR01)UCT()HY Remauks .... 11 I. Acute Broxcihtis ix Adults— Etiolo;!!/ . . . . . . i;-5 Morbid Anntfuii i/. . . . .14 S//iiij:ttoiu.s . . . . . .16 Coinplimtions . . . .16 Diacjnosis . . . . . .18 Treatment . . . . . .18 II. Chron ic Bkon( hitis ix Adults— Etiolog;/ 19 Morhid AiKitdiii 1/. . . , .19 Si/mj/toi/ifs . . . . . .19 Cum,/)/icaf ions ..... 20 Ditupiosis ...... 20 Prognosis ...... 20 Clinical Varieties .... 20 Bronchorrhcea Catarrhe Sec Fcctid Broneldtis Plastic Bronchitis 111. Bronchitis in Children . . 23 Insanity ok Cyanosis .... 26 See also Alcohol {Clinical Uses); Alcoholism {Complications) ; Anaesthetics, Ether ; Asthma ; ; Bronchi, Bronchial Glands : Bronchi, Bronchiectasis; Burns and Scalds [Clinical Features, Respiratory (Jomplications) : Chest, Clinical Investigation of ; Children, De- velopment OF {Si/m2)toms of 'Teething); Cough (Clinical Varieties) ; Expectoration ; (^iouT (Pespnratori/ Systent) ; Heart, Myocardiuji and Endocardium {Syniptontatology) ; Haemoptysis ; Lung, Tuisbrculosis of, etc. ; Measles ; Neph- ritis ; Oxygen ; Pneumonia, Clinical ; Preg- nancy, Affections and Complications ; Rickets ; Smallpox ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts ; Trades, Dancjerous {Cotton); Tuberculosis; Typhoid Fever {Conipilications and Sequela:'). Bronchitis is an inflammation of the bronchial tubes, general or partial, involving either the I larger or smaller bronchial tubes. ' The term bronchitis is of comparatively recent date, having been introduced by Di-. Charles Badham in 1810, when it superseded . the old phrase " pulmonary catarrh ' or "de- fluxion." For the i)urpose of description the subject will be divided into the following sections :— 1. Acute bronchitis in the adult; 2. Chronic bronchitis in the adult; 3. Bronchitis in children. General Considerations.—It would naturally ■ be supposed that the lironchial tubes, ramifying throughout the whole of the lungs as they do, should be so intrinsically a part of the lung that no clinical division could be drawn between in- flammation of the bronchi and inflammation of the pulmonary tissue, pneumonia. And though ! from a clinical as well as from a pathological standpoint bronchitis is sharply diftereutiated from pneumonia so long as the larger and middle-sized tubes are alone affected, we sliall I seek in vain for any line of demarcation between j capillary bronchitis and the lobular pneumonia with which, in children at any rate, it is almost invariably associated. To ajDpreciate the path(,)logical clianges taking- place in bronchitis, it is necessary to bear in mind the normal structui'e and functions of the tissues involved. An explanation will be found i for the tendency for the inflammation to be