( 5 ) (/*.) May stick in ureter causing—i. hydronephrosis, and ii. dilatation and atrophy of kidney, (g.) If retained in kidney grow large and may cause—i. pyelitis ; ii. hydronephro- sis ; iii. atrophy of kidney ; iv. abscess of kidney (pyonephrosis) ; v. abscess around kidney (perinephritis). (A) Symptoms of these (i.) Calculus may escape through, lumbar fistula consequent on pointing of abscess in loins or into colon or pleura, (j.) Symptoms and diagnosis of retained renal calculus (Jc.) Treatment—nephrotomy and nephrec- tomy. 19, — Vesical calculi, (a) Physical characters,—i; composition; ii. size, iii ; weight, iv. hardness ; v. shape ; vi. number ; (b.( Position—free and encysted, (c.) Symptoms—i. uneasiness and pain; ii. increased frequency of micturition ; iii discharge of blood mucus or pus ; iv. stoppage of flow ; v. prolapse of anus ; vi. priapism ; vii. pulling penis, (d.) Detection,—i. rectal and pubic examination; ii. sounding; instruments used and manner of use (e) Pathological changes caused by stone —i cystitis ; ii. thickening of coats and hypertrophy of bladder; iii, contraction or dilatation of bladder; iv. ulceration and perforation; v. abscessand fistula ; vi, extension of inflam- mation to kidney or seminal ducts ; vii. prostatic enlarge- ment ; viii. obstruction to parturition, (f) Spontaneous rupture, disintegration and discharge of calculi. (g.)—Treat- ment ;—i. solution; ii. extraction without cutting; iii. crushing without cutting ; iv, incision with or without crushing and extraction through incision. 20. —Solution of calculi (lithontriptics) (a.) Acids, (b,) Alkalis, (c.) Acetate of lead, (d.) Electrolysis. Solvents as a rule inefficient. 21 —Extraction of calculi without operation—(a.) Position, (b.) Manipulation, (c.) Dilatation by bougies, (d.) Removal by forceps. 22.—Crushing (lithotrity and litholapaxy) (Civiale, Bigelow) (a.) Favourable conditions as regards—i. age ; ii. size of stone ; iii. composition of stone ; iv. state of urethra ; v. state of bladder ; vi. state of kidneys ; vii. general health ; viii. position of stone. (b) Instruments employed for crush-