4 CLINICAL REMARKS ON been pretty generally expressed) that the secondary symptoms of syphilis appear only in these cases theirs, who bestow upon him indiscriminate praise, concealing from the younger part of the profession how apt his expressions are to mislead them on practical subjects. In reference to the present subject, it cannot be denied, and ought not to be kept concealed, that, with all its merits, Mr. Hunter's Treatise on the Venereal Disease is no guide for practice; and yet, young men learning that it is a book justly esteemed, and that Mr. Hunter was the first surgeon of his day, they naturally think, that they have got in that volume a treasure uf sound doctrine and safe practice. To give Mr. Hunter the full measure of his praise (that praise which one, not a party to professional controversy, would desire to see bestowed) would include the eulogy of the elder brother also. They were, indeed, par nobile fratrum, from whose exertions improvements of the highest consequence found their way into all the departments of the profession. But the better parts of Mr. Hunter's character, as well as the discoveries, the judgment, and the good taste of Dr. Hunter, have been thrown quite into the back ground, and we hear incessant talk about certain opinions of Mr. Hunter, rather than of his great labour, his contributions to science, and his attention to facts. To a character thus depreciated, and a portrait thus injured and almost defaced, we may find some puny resemblances. Some- thing slovenly in manner, something startling and odd in opinion, with little occasional crude hypotheses, obscurely expressed, have been thought to make a resemblance-t^^m, whose whole life was devoted to investigation, whose passion was the im- provement of science. When one sees the education of the younger part of the profession at present, and when we witness the habits of think- ing, it is impossible to avoid regretting, that the elder brother should not have had a biographer with the same zeal and com-