CAUSES OF HYPERTROPHY. 339 four the dimensions are not stated; in one there was dilatation without hypertrophy, and only in one was the heart decidedly smaller than usual. Perhaps more common than fatty degeneration in a hyper- trophied heart is fibroid induration, presenting the characters before described. Causes of Hypertrophy.—These are essentially of two kinds : “in the one kind,” to use Dr. Watson’s terms, “ there is some mechani- cal obstruction to the exit of the blood from one or more of the cavities; a constricted state of the orifices is the most common condition. In the other kind, without any such mechanical drain or bar to the fluid, there is something to hinder the free and sufficient play of the organ, an adhering pericardium, it may be, or malposition of the heart. The causes of hypertrophy may’ therefore, be situated within the heart itself, or without and beyond it; but in all those cases in which the effect of the hindrance or obstacle is to detain the blood in one or more chambers, the hyper- ! trophy will be likely to be accompanied by dilatation, and gene- i rally speaking the hypertrophy and dilatation result from disease 1 111 some Part, which lies beyond the affected chamber in the order of the circulation.” The largest hypertrophied heart, however which we have met with was one of the latter class, in which no such obstacle could be discovered. The specimen, which was taken | §?m a nnddle-aged man, is preserved in the St. George’s Hospital 1 Museum; and weighed, when removed from the body, five pounds; the left ventricle is enormously hypertrophied, and very much di- lated at the same time, but beyond this increase of size in the heart, no morbid appearances are perceptible or on record; the valves are i ail perfectly healthy. In hypertrophy from obstruction, the causes will naturally be ' different for the two sides of the heart. Thus obstruction of the . aorta, by adhesion or other affection of the valves, causes the left • ventricle to work at greater tension, and at the same time keeps it constantly distended, so that it becomes both hypertrophied and enlarged. Aortic regurgitation by keeping a large quantity of Mood in the chamber produces the same effect; and so, though not for the same reason, does mitral regurgitation. Again, simple hypertrophy without dilatation of the left ventricle, may be pro- . auced by obstruction in the distant parts of the arterial system; and this very frequently happens in cases of disease of the kidneys’ a condition, which in some manner not yet quite explained, is con- nected with an increase of tension in the arteries. In so far as this is the case the effect is evidently analogous to that of imme- diate aortic obstruction. The increase of arterial tension which accompanies some forms of kidney disease, has been accounted mr in several ways which we cannot discuss here- but no explanation is perfectly satisfactory, and hence some persons havo Buppo„ed that the hypertrophy of the left ventricle and the otW oncomitant changes have no causal connection with one another