497 BROXCHO-PNEUlIOiaC GRANULATIONS. cliial tubes, beginning with the larger. It will then be found that there is, even in the larger tubes, bronchitis, and that this most probably appears more intense on. reaching the smaller tubes, while iu some cases the degenerated secretion and inflammatory pro- ducts appear on the inner surface as what was formerly called “yellow tubercle,” or earlier still “ scrofulous matter.” This was admirably represented by Carswell in 1838,* though he was evi- dently wrong in regarding this process as the characteristic one in tubercular disease, or in all forms of phthisis. The thickening and induration of the bronchial wall are chiefly owing to an infiltration with small cells, which are very prone to undergo decay and become granular, so that their structure becomes undistinguishable. . In early stages, however, we believe that this cellular structure is really tubercle, with some accompanying ; hypertrophy, and that the peri-bronchitic granulation may be described as pert- bronchial tubercle. The apparont size of the nodule, as seen with the naked eye, is also partly made up of inflamed and consolidated lung tissue. The only account which can be given of the origin of peri-bron- chial tubercle is, that the inflammation affecting the mucous surface ot the bronchi, which may at first be ordinary bronchitis, extends - to the submucous tissue and the bronchial walls. The inflamma- ' .on ex?ited in these parts is not suppurative, but chronic and indurative, being moreover, as we believe, always accompanied by t the production of tubercles. The whole process may be called chronic peri-bronchitis^ or more specifically, tubercular "peri-bronchitis, t • *■ en_cronchitis is always accompanied by broncho-pneumonia, inflammation spreading to the surrounding air cells, and also to those which are in communication with the bronchial tubes affected. is also very common to find grey induration (production of cytoge- ti°Us °J bbrold tissue) of the surrounding parts, and in general °ae iorms of phthisis in which induration preponderates, are J ?“ose m which peri-bronchitis chiefly occurs. As might be expected, true miliary tubercles _ are also frequently associated with the bronchial granulations. Peri-bronchitis unaccompanied by ^tubercle is, we believe, very rare in the human lung, if, indeed, it ever occurs; but according to Virchow it is a common disease in BRONCIIO-PNEUMONIC GRANULATIONS. °tigm of these nodules is from the catarrhal broncho-pneu- “ which we have already spoken. We only wish here to < -capitulate certain characters belonging to them, some of which X\elt0 their bolnS confounded with tubercles, and others bv lth they 1QaY to distinguished from them. They resemble “lustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease ’> K K