MOBBED CONDITION'S OF THE TONGUE. 541 exhales a horrible fcetor. There is no acute pain throughout, the patient is generally rather drowsy, and death takes place quietly in most cases. ±^o cause has been assigned for the occurrence of - gangrene in this part, all that can be said is that a true mortifica- tion or death of the textures seems to take place, which is itself the primary evil, and not the result of inflammation, disease of the vessels, or obstruction of their channels. This is a good illustration ’ of tiie. doctrine we maintained, when speaking of mortification, viz., •• that it essentially consisted in a loss of the vital powers which maintain, in opposition to those of inorganic chemistry, the complex constitution of the animal tissues. MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TONGUE. Microglossia Hypertrophy of the Tongue.—The tongue is liable to be aflected by an extraordinary hypertrouhic enlargement in consequence of which it protrudes from the mouth, sometimes’ as much as two and a half inches. The structure is altered, becoming- much more dense than natural. When examined microscopically" it shows no increase in the proper muscular tissue of the tongue’ Pso ^ 18 rather a case of false than of true hypertrophy 'The increase of bulk is chiefly due to the production of a large quantity ot ,hlShly vascular, nucleated connective tissue, which infiltrates and separates the muscular bundles. Beside this is seen a peculiar •cavernous structure, composed of a number of intercommunicating t. spaces. These spaces contain a clear fluid, apparently lymph and ' ^.corpuscles. They appear accordingly to be V ™tions of newly formed or pre-existing lymphatic voxels. We , 3® Seer\th,1S 3tructuro, whloh m described by Virchow and others ► With great clearness, m a case reported by Mr. Arnott.* in other cases a true cavernous tissue containing blood or something like a nsevus, is formed. Sometimes there is said to be andbfas.c1ular]^yPel'tr?Ph5’; The affection is sometimes congenital and is said to be occasionally connected with cretinism or idiocy Prnm' Ty th2 only occurs as the consequence of paralysis from drnsmn of the hypoglossal nerve, or attacks of hemiplegm it is of course confined to the affected side. 1 S icZ'TJ\the P^jfer-Dr- Saiter gives an interesting count of the morbid changos which the lingual papill n ^hdergo. The circumvallate papillae may be hypertrophied -1 l0™ llttle .tumours as large as peas. The epithelial °-i conicai or filiform papillae may become extra- |, fl‘rirtnly, elongated, so as to bo half an inch long; they are of ; ieStl Co!°ih’ and 0Xactly llk®.little brown hairs. ^ Minor lanill'B a ^1S condition aro, we think, not uncommon. The •apilhe sometimes becomes atrophied. “ Mr. Lawrence mentions * “Truui. Path. Soc.,” 1872, vol. xxiii. p. loe.