646 BILIARY CALCULI. also notices the formation of osseous plates in the thickened parietes of gall-bladders which have been the seat of inflammation, and an increased production of fibroid tissue, which may be so firm and white as to give a cartilaginoid appearance. The biliary ducts very rarely contain tubercle. Cancer sometimes extends to the gall-bladder from the liver, or, it is said, may occur in it primarily; it forms nodules in the submucous tissue, or infiltrates the mucous membrane; more commonly its wall is perforated by growths in the liver, which push their way into its cavity. Fig. 145. BILIARY CALCULI. Two conditions of the bile in the gall-bladder deserve our close attention, on account of the important consequences which often result from them. One is, the bile being so loaded with colouring matter from concentration, or other causes, that a deposit of this substance takes place; the other is, the bile con- taining a large quantity of cholesterine. From these two sub- stances all biliary calculi almost are formed. _ They are far most common in the gall-bladder, but also occur in the ducts, both within and without the liver. ‘ ‘ Their * form and surface vary much. Single calculi are commonly round, oval, or cylindrical; when very large so as to occupy ” the entire cavity of the gall- bladder, they are frequently slightly curved; “if many exist together they mutually prevent their enlargement, and in conse- quence of the friction and pressure they exert upon one another they assume cubical, tetra- hedric, prismatic, or irregularly polyhedric shapes, with convex or concave surfaces. The calculi found in the ducts are generally cylindrical, occasionally branched, or entirely amorphous. The texture of the calculi may be & uniform or varied, in proportion as they con- sist of one substance or of several layers. Many show no distinct arrangement; some have an earthy pulverulent fracture, or a fibrous, striated, laminated, micaceous texture, as is particularly observed in calculi consisting of cholesterine.” Gall-stones are not of any great degree of consistence, they may some- times be compressed easily between the fingers: they are rather light, but not so much so as to float m water Their colour varies from a milky white to various shades of green, yellow, or brown: internally they often present an alternation of different coloured laminae. They may be s.u consist generally of cholesterine, mingled with a combmataon o pigment and lime in various proportions. Large gall-stone.. * Rokitansky, vol. ii. p. 162. Small irregular gall- stones, composed of in- spissated and altered Bile cemented by mu- cus. (From Dr. Budd’s "Work.)