799 THE PLACENTA. as the molecular disintegration resulting from the deposit of fibrine in the cells surrounding the villi of the chorion; and not as a primary deposit of oil within the placental capillaries, a view more fully developed by Dr. Handheld Jones, * in a paper on fatty degene- ration. If portions of a placenta, thus degenerated, be thrown into water, “ the first thing which strikes the observer,” to employ the words of Dr. Barnes, + is, “ that the tufts of villi do not expand or float out in the same way as in the healthy placenta, and on endeavouring to separate the fragments into its component villi with needles, the extreme brittleness of the whole structure becomes apparent.” Examined by a high power, “ we observe (1) that the villi are thickly studded with innumerable minute spherules of oil; (2) the chorion is much altered"; it is thickened and destitute of nuclei; (3) the walls of the vessels no longer contain nuclei, these having, in all probability, become degenerated into spherules of oil; (4) the spherules of oil are contained, some in the chorion, some in the walls of the blood-vessels, and many in the intervals or spaces between these ; (5) the cavities of the vessels are almost invariably free from fatty deposition; (6) the vessels are destitute ol blood.” “ Uterine Hydatids Myaoma of the Chorion.—The villi of the chorion are not unfrequently found to have become converted into oval, pedunculated bodies, like hydatids, clustered together like a bunch of grapes; the cysts vary in size from a pin’s head to a fil- bert, and more, and they may amount to several hundred. This pathological condition has received the name of the vesicular mole • it is to the expulsion of a mass of this kind that the fabulous accounts ot women having given birth to several hundred children are attri- butable ; the cysts having been regarded as ova, and these having been magnified into infants. Two beautiful specimens of the disease are preserved in St. George’s Hospital Museum. It appears to depend upon the time when the degeneration occurs whether it shall be total or partial. If the process begin after the first month of pregnancy, it will be confined to the placenta or even to a part of it. Virchow interprets these structures as myxo- matous degeneration, and has shown that the normal villi contain tissue of this kind (mucous tissue), which is continued into them lrom the umbilical cord. Rokitansky denies the occurrence of tubercle in the placenta Ihe only instance on record that we have met with is one described by M. Hardy,l as having been found in a phthisical female ao-ed thirty-five; but there seems little doubt, on reading his descrin- tion, that the supposed tubercles were altered blood-clots or fibrin ous masses. * “Med.-Chir. Review," April, 18*3. t “ Med.-Chir. Tran*.,” vol. xxxiv. t “ Archives Gdndiales de Medeciue,” 1834, vol. v p 241