ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS IN THE LUNGS. 493 inhales more or less. It is an old observation that this pigment is absent in the lungs of children, and most abundant in those of old people. ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS IN THE LUNGS. TUBERCLE. We have already given (p. 193) a definition of a tubercle such as it is found m various organs and parts of the body. Tubercles thus defined occur m the lungs m various pathological conditions, but the term has been applied with greater laxity than in the case of . °/?er orSans- and many objects met with in the lungs to which this name has been given, do not conform to the definition ot a tubercle given above; that is, are not like what are called ; tubercles m other parts of the body. Speaking generally, the name 1 aas .u aPphed to small (that is, not much more than one-eivhth of an inch in diameter) solid bodies, harder and more insistent than the ordinary lung tissue, grey or yellowish in colour. To ; such bodies the term granule or granulation has also been applied but since a very special meaning has been attached to this term also the word nodule appears to be the only one that can be used ' without involving any theoretical explanation. The nodides v'hich have been called tubercles in the lung, are of the following classes:— 1. Grey Miliary Tubercles.-These are tubercles such as they occur (for instance) on the serous membranes, or true tubercles as I°nTen1LSIbd' They ^ oc?ur “mpiy, or else complicated and enlarged by various changes m the surrounding lung’ tissue sme^l 'tT0111 L ‘fptC< 7 m°St commonly occur in large numbers spiead through the whole or great part of one or both lungs: and the most typical examples are found in the disease calledacute I S‘:;ry ^t®™10818’” when they are present in other organs also ■ These are the ‘grey granulations” of Bayle and Louis, and only | y /dent?cal with the grey tubercles of Laennec, which have been often called grey miliary tubercles. fw /J.eri'hr0lic/‘iul Granulations— These are small, hard masses rmed round the smaller bronchi, first clearly distinguished by ■ Virchow from miliary tubercle, though described by Carswell “ fo, '*,W-Pne™™nic Granulations.—The objects which Laennec the most part described under the name of groy tubercle or grey granulation, though ho also included under this term the true cat rZ 'ltb0rC p and th° f0llTrf clrs' Tlley ar<‘ the product of catanhal broncho-pncumoma, to be described hereafter lmt tL f uVe are th° t;laSSeS 0f obJ0cts known as' tubercles for them i°WinS “U S° b° mentloned as kkely to be mistaken 4. Small Syphilitic Nodules.—The characters and history of these