396 EMBOLISM. been shown that such a process actually takes place, though its importance is uncertain. It will thus be seen that though the organization of blood, clot was traced long ago in its main features by Hunter, its minute characters are far from satisfactorily settled. Finally, either the walls become adherent all round, and the vessel is obliterated; or else more rarely an opening or canal remains, through which the circulation is carried on. Canalization of Thrombi— Clots which have become organized in the manner just described become perforated by openings, through which the circulation is re-established. These openings seem "to be formed by absorption of areas between the newly- formed vessels and fibrous bands. A similar perforation, though not produced in the same way, is seen as a consequence of simple softening. In both cases the circulation may be restored, though probably the vessel never completely returns to its former state. Calcification of thrombi is seen occasionally in veins. _ In such cases the clot is doubtless never organized, but the details of the process are not known. In this way are formed the phlebohtlie-, or vein-stones, which are not unfrequently seen in the deep veins and plexuses of the pelvic viscera, or less frequently elsewhere. EMBOLISM. By embolism * is understood the obstruction of vessels by masses brought from a distance and carried along by the blood current till they arrive at a channel too narrow to let them pass. It foriows by definition that this process can only occur in arteries, capil- laries, or in the divisions of the portal vein. The objects which most frequently serve as emboli or blocks, are fragments of dislodged or crumbling thrombi from veins similar fragments from another part of the same artery, or from the heart, and fragments of fibrin or vegetations detached from the valves ol the heart. More rarely pieces of new growth, parasites, or foreign bodies. Emboli derived from the systemic veins of course pass through the heart into the pulmonary circulation, as do those derived from the right side of the heart; while blocks m the Sys- temic circulation can only come from the heart some part of the arterial system, or the pulmonary veins. Emboli of the port system of course become arrested m some ramification of the poitai vein within the liver. . ,, The importance of the embolic process depends upon the nature and size of the obstructing mass, as well as upon the part ot ui body supplied by the obstructed vessel. . . ^ A mass of simple clot coming from a systemic be large enough, become entangled in the valves of the heart, o * Etymology from Greek iV/SoNoc = a something throstin.a pl^OT 8* opr er, = the process of thrusting in or pining. But in Lugiuu wc embolism instead of embolus for the object itself, the 11 g-