MOBBED ANATOMY OF LOCOMOTOR ATAXY. 303 and “grey degeneration,” and is spoken of also simply as new t growth of connective tissue. The process thus indicated occurs in rthe brain as well as the cord, but is more important and uniform m the latter. The grey colour, which is very characteristic of all : forms of chronic degeneration of the spinal cord, appears to depend i essentially upon the loss of the white sheath of the nervous fibres; when this is from any cause destroyed, the nervous columns appear fgrey instead of white. Sclerosis, or induration, appears chiefly in i two forms : (1) simple induration, which affects particular nervous t tracts uniformly ; (2) localized induration, which appears isolated in special regions or foci, and is analogous to the local indurations observed in the brain. Simple induration is anatomically dis- ttinguished by being merely a substitution of normal connective rtissue for nerve tissue ; so that it is usually doubtful whether the ..atrophy of the latter or the hypertrophy of the former is the primary affection. Localized induration (which is sometimes called inflammatory) is known anatomically by the abundance of nuclei contained in the substituted connective tissue, which thus evidently owes its origin to proliferation or hyperplasia of the connective tissue, and the atrophy of nerve substance must be rregarded as secondary. The adventitious sheath of the blood- vessels is especially involved in these cases, and seems to be the - starting point of the growth. Simple induration is especially seen in the grey degeneration of the posterior columns of the spinal cord, which is characteristic of -tne disease known as locomotor ataxy. MORBID ANATOMY OF LOCOMOTOR ATAXY. J?9 m°rt>id changes in this disease consist, according to the .mammary description of Dr. Lockhart Clarke,* chiefly in a certain sn?,Lin< itl0? a,I1<l integration of the posterior columns of the pinal cord, of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, of the !u.t U°r ?ley sn, , I1CG or cornua, and sometimes of the cerebral tRo If" A vanable number, and frequently in the latter stages of and S6’ nearly ?U the nerve fibres of the posterior columns ,ilJ^ rootfi fal1 'nto a state of granular disintegration, and normal' y disappear. Usually the posterior columns retain their nectivi al S£a?e m consequence of hypertrophy of the con- Seddefl tb«’ Wh‘Ch-replaCeS th° lost fibres‘ In «us tissue lie neio-hRed th v“almng nerve fibres. with the debris of their thev „ ’ ln djdorent stages of disintegration. In some places m J ar<)„ sevcre(l 1 nto short portions, or into rows of crlohnlnr wES’l >!d °Ut*0f tbef medullary sheaths or white substance tach has been stripped from their axis-cylinders. In other 3 tb°y bave hdlen into smaller fragments and granules, which 9 “ British Medical Journal,” July 3rd, 1869.