724- OBCUITIB. tumour of enormous size may be formed, reaching down even to the knees, as in a case recorded by Mr. Bowman in the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxxiii. The cause of the rupture is generally some straining elfort. _ Orchitis (op^is, a testicle)—inflammation of the testis—may be either acute or chronic. The acute disease is sometimes primary, as when the testis has suffered from external violence; but the more common condition, in which the testicle swells with great pain and tenderness during the course of urethritis, is really an epididymitis, the inflammation extending from the affected part along the vas deferens. This limitation may be usually easily perceived, the swollen epididymis far exceeding the body of the testis in size, although still retaining its characteristic form. Opportunities rarely occur of examining the gland when acutely inflamed, but the following appearances have been observed in cases of secondary inflammation of the organ: the testis itself is not much altered, but the epididymis is enlarged, especially at the lower part, to twice or three times its natural size, and feels thick, firm, and indurated. This enlargement depends on the presence of exudation matter in the intertubular connective tissue. The coats of' the vas deferens are thickened, and the adjacent vessels injected. The tunica vaginalis is inflamed, and its walls glued together by soft adhesions, or separated by a variable amount of fluid. Suppuration rarely occurs in the body of the testis in consecutive orchitis, it is more frequent in primary; indeed, in the former, it is not uncommon for the gland itself to escape entirely. When pus has been formed in the testis, it does not easily make its way out, and consequently burrows in different directions, dis- organizing the tissue of the gland. Sometimes, when all active inflammation has subsided, the fluid part of the pus becomes absorbed, leaving only an encysted cheesy mass behind. Another result of inflammation of the testis is wasting of the gland, occasioned by the interstitial fibrinous exudation passing into fibroid tissue, and compressing the blood-vessels and tubuli. The enlargement of the epididymis not unfrequently subsides very incompletely, leaving an indurated, knotty swelling, situated usually at its lower part. The fibrinous matter which imbeds the duct and the areolar tissue in this part, does not necessarily cause the obliteration of its canal, which is even sometimes considerably dilated, as Mr. Curling has observed, so as to be four or five times its usual dimensions. At the same time it must be borne in mind that the prolonged continuance of this fibroid induration of the tail of the epididymis may, in certain cases, lead to permanent obstruction of the excretory duct. Chronic orchitis, in which the inflammatory changes already described proceed more slowly and in somewhat different fashion, rarely develops spontaneously. It may indeed follow a blow, or take the place of the acute affection ; but in almost all cases the change may be traced to the presence of a syphilitic taint, or to the