SCO CANCER OF BONE. originating in glandular or superficial epithelium, and of which tne cells (contained in the alveoli) have a more or less epithelial character. This excludes from the class of cancers nearly all the malignant tumours arising from bone, and, accordinglv, Billroth has proposed for some undoubtedly alveolar tumours, which are anatomically cancer, in the sense in which the word is used in this book, the name alveolar sarcoma. This is understood as differing from cancer only in the fact that the cells have not an “ epithelial” character. Whether the name carcinoma or sarcoma should be given to such tumours, depends on a variety of considerations which cannot be discussed here. We only wish to point out that ■ sarcoma ” is in many cases synonymous with carcinoma, in the sense in which we use the word. _ Finally, it must be stated that we do, from time to time, meet with tumours growing- from bone which are both “alveolar” and “epithelial,” and to°which no pathologist would refuse the name of cancer, either on anatomi- cal or clinical grounds. Such cases are explained, by those who deny the origin of cancer from anything else than epithelium, in two ways : first, they say the occurrence of such growths is so rare and exceptional as to be altogether unimportant; secondly, they suppose that there may have been, in such cases, some inclusion of epi- thelial or epidermic structure within the bone in the course of development; as^ appears to be the case in the dermoid cysts, found in exceptional situations, formerly referred to. This explanation appears forced, and we can only say that the “epithelial” theory o± the origin of cancer does not at present appear susceptible of application to all cases, and must therefore be regarded as, up till now, insufficiently established. The definition of Virchow forms the best practical basis for anatomical classification. Primary Cancer of Bone.—Several varieties have been seen. Epithelioma is recorded as having occurred in two cases by Forster.* * * § Virchow and Weber have seen similar cases.t Messrs. Cock and Bryant describe another. | In such cases, the epithelial character of the cells could admit of no mistake. The ordinary medullary carcinoma is what is sometimes called alveolar sarcoma. Cases are not very uncommon. They occur chiefly in certain situations, such as the lower end of the femur or humerus, the cranial bones and the vertebral column, sometimes in other situations, as the tibia or pelvic bones. Apeifect instance of this form of tumour is one first described as osteo-sarcoma, but which, in its further development, and especially in the lymphatic and secondary tumours to which it gave rise (as we have, since the publication of the case, had an opportunity of observing), was precisely what has been generally understood by medullary car- cinoma^ or lately, alveolar sarcoma. These tumours are some- * “ Ilanflbiich dor Path. Anat.,” vol. ii. p. S95. + 1-iicke, “ Geschwulsfe,” p. 207. $ “ Lancet,” vol. i. 1859. § Croft, “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. p. 203.