187 ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. to science made by Virchow consists in his having demonstrated the existence of this tissue, and the possibility of new growths arising from it in organs such as muscle, nerve centres, &c., formerly supposed to be destitute of it. But more recent inquiries have shown that other tissues also, more especially epithelium (both that of mucous and glandular structures, and the serous epithelium, or “ endothelium ” which lines the serous cavities and lymphatic channels) and the nuclei of blood-vessels, may serve the same purpose; and it is not certain that even highly-specialized elements, such as liver cells, may not sometimes give rise to new elements. In the case of cancer especially the question has given rise to much discussion. Virchow first laid down the general principle that cancers, excluding epithelioma, were always deve- loped from the connective tissue, or some one of the less specialized tissues; but of late years it has been shown by Waldeyer * and others that some forms of cancer arise from glandular or epithelial structures. It is, however, admitted that in these cases the growth soon spreads to the connective tissue, and hence the infection of the latter may still be the real distinc- tion of cancer from those growths which are simple glandular hypertrophies, and cancer would then be, as defined by Billroth,! a primarily epithelial growth, with marked and intense infection of the connective tissue. This local infection is in fact tho clearest indication of truly cancerous growth. Since this question is certainly not at present completely set at rest, we have not thought it necessary, for the purposes of this manual, to dis- tmguish the epithelial and connective tissue cancers further than to separate those which are at first, and remain epithelial, under the name of epithelioma. Relation to Lymphatics.—A. second very important point in the evelopment ot cancer is its relation to the lymphatic system. has been shown by MM. Cornil and Kanvier, and also by r. iioster for epithelioma, that the alveoli of cancer commu- nicate freely with the lymphatic vessels of neighbouring parts, ■yns )act explains in a very striking manner the direct and almost constant infection of the lymphatic glands, which is so character,stic of cancer. It is, moreover, by no means inconsistent with the close connection of cancer and connective tissue, if we accept the views of His and others, that the connective tissue forms a system of plasmatic channels, in close connection with the lymphatic system. In the case of glandular cancers and epithe- lioma the long tubular prolongations filled with cells, which are 2£dJi ex w1 lnt0 t,he ™?hbo“i?g tissue, seem also to be casts of lymphatic vessels. Although these facts make it clear how material passes from the tumour to the nearest lymphatic glands, it is by no means certain what that material is * WaMeyer. t Billroth. “ Virehow’s “Arehiv,” xli. p. 470. Chirurgische Pathologie und Therapie.” Third edition, 1868, p. C37.