52 ACTIVE HYPERA3MIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. pregnancy, the gums during dentition, the mucous membrane of the stomach while the secretion of gastric juice is going on, and, generally, it may he said, every organ during the time of increased activity and employment. Now, we think it may be affirmed, that, in the above instances, the most important and characteristic pheno- menon is the increased functional energy and vigour of the hypersemic part; this we believe to be the main and essential circumstance of which the increased blood-flow is a sequel. Nay, there are manv instances, especially among secretory organs, in which the great increase of the product proves that a corresponding increase of the supply of blood must have taken place ; a true hypersemia, in one sense, exists, but it is not apparent, because of the active transformation which is going on. How marked is the difference between this condition and congestion! In the one, functional activity and molecular change at its height, with vascular injection more or less considerable, but not varying in direct, rather in inverse ratio to it; in the other, vascular injection extreme, while the functional activity is extremely depressed. Now, in proportion as active hyperaemia departs from the physiological condition, and becomes morbid—that is to say, approaches towards inflammation —in the same degree does the vital energy and activity of the part appear to be lowered, and the hypersemia becomes the more marked phenomenon. Thus a diuretic drug shall be administered to two individuals; in the one the flow of urine shall be considerably augmented, the vital power of the kidney predominating over the hypersemia excited; in the other, the flow of urine shall be diminished, and the secretion become bloody and albuminous, evidencing the predominance of the hypersemia over the vital power. So, too, in fever. The skin, at one time, shall be dry and burning and red, with vascular injection, but its vital power of secretion and exhalation is in abeyance. But a change comes, the tissue regains its functions, and pours out a healthy moisture on the surface; and now the hypersemia, though it may con- tinue in some degree, is no longer predominant. How different must be the condition of the gastiic mucous membrane m the hypersemia excited by a few grains of ginger, and that pro- duced by a few grains of arsenic! No doubt the one form of active hypersemia may pass into the other. The quantity of blood which a healthy tissue was able to employ, and which was requisite for the unusually vigorous discharge of its function, may become too much for the same tissue when debilitated by over-use. A brain ministering to an active mind requires and recen es a greatei supply of blood than that of the waterman “who rows along thinking of nothing at all.” So long as the cerebral energy is not over-tasked, the hypersemia will tend to no injurious result, but will only supply the necessary pabulum for the material changes connected with thought. When, however, the time arm es that the delieate organ needs repose, then if the strain be con- tinued, and the hypersemia kept up, it is manifest that a moibid