144 NEW GROWTH OF BONE. lage and connective tissue; or an independent tumour. The immediate stimulus to the new growth may be repeated irritation or prolonged use, as in the ossification of tendons and fasciae, wounds and consequent inflammation, independent inflammation, the “collateral hypersemia” round diseased parts, the obscure causes summed up as senile change, or else some quite unknown cause different from these, as is usually the case with bony tumours. When bone is formed as a hypertrophy of tissue of the same kind, or to replace its loss, it is almost, if not quite invariably, formed from the periosteum; and it is in this membrane that the property, so to speak, of producing bone seems to reside, so that if the bone be removed, but the periosteum left, a perfect repro- duction will take place ; and even a portion of periosteum wholly or partially detached, will produce bone when transferred to another situation. This is remarkably shown in the modem rhinoplastic operation of transplanting, with a portion of skin from the forehead, a portion of the pericranium, so that not only a fleshy nose but a proper bony bridge is formed; as well as by the expe- riments of Ollier, who transplanted completely detached portions of periosteum to other parts of the body. The production of bone from connective tissue not in connection with a previously existing bone has often been confounded with simple calcification of that tissue, but in the following tissues undoubted bone has been observed,-—in the tendons of muscles, in intermuscular septa, especially when the muscles are exposed to friction, as the inner muscles of the thigh, in riding, or the shoulder muscles in soldiers, when pressed upon by the musket. Serous membranes, as the pericardium and the pleura, are sometimes completely ossified. The dura mater and arachnoid of the brain or spinal cord some- times contain bony plates. The hard plates in the interior of atheromatous arteries are probably never, certainly seldom, true bone; but, on the other hand, this has been seen in the gall- bladder and in the walls of hydatid cysts in the liver. The eye when atrophied from any cause, is very liable to produce bone, in the place either of the vitreous body or of the choroid. The pro- duction of bone from cartilage is seen most often in the costal and laryngeal cartilages; very rarely, if ever, in articular. The con- tinuous outgrowth of bone, and the ossifications above spoken of are very difficult to separate from the bony tumours; iu fact the difference is one of degree only. The principal outgrowth from bones which can be called distinct tumours arc exostoses and osteophytes. Beside these we have to consider those which arise in an alien soil, or heteroplastic osseous tumours. Exostoses.—An exostosis is an osseous tumour, proceeding from the bone or its periosteum, and, according to Rokitansky, homologous in texture, when fully developed, with that of its base and point of origin, whether that bo compact or spongy. Its form varies being sometimes broad and flat, sometimes round and prominent, with a narrow neck, sometimes spinous. Exostoses do not often attain