190 GROWTH AND DEGENERATIONS OE CANCER. blastema, the greater is its malignant capacity. M. Simon says, ‘ ‘ in proportion as the blastema has suffered itself to undergo a fibrous transformation, in such measure I cease to recognise that which is distinctively cancerous and malignant.' Believing this to be in a great part true, we must still remember that the abolition of a truly scirrhous growth may be followed by the development of encephaloid ; the inactive fibroid structure is still the expression of the comparatively quiescent constitutional mfirmi y, v c xna_ at any time be roused to its more severe manifestations. Virchow has pointed out that malignant properties are manifested chiefly in two directions—in the infection or infiltration of the neighbour- ing tissues, on the one hand, and in the general infection of the system with production of tumours in distant parts, on the other hand; and that sometimes one of these forms predominate.., sometimes the other. The difference may depend partly upon a certain energy or virulence of the parenchymatous juices produced S tttamS. but is more closely couuected mth .he> ™c»ta arrangements; local infection being characteristic of shghtly vas- cular growths, general infection of those which are abundantly permeated by blood and lymph; a distinction which, as a genera , though not an absolute rule, seems to he very valuable. Pathologists are generally agreed m attachmg little credit to the results of the experiments which have been made lelative to Ui nroduction of cancer by inoculation, or injection of the cancerous Matter Some few are said to have succeeded, but the great maioritv have failed; in this there is nothing surprising; audit has hence been concluded that the non-production ofcancerbymoc- ulation proves conclusively “ the absolute necessity of nredisuosition ” for the development of the disease. A healthy -y» cud overcome by a» —toefeme P* l™'?VZlrTcanler -It might be reasonably conceived that £ S'%'rs rrr sr more common' tti'^cepbS stomach are commonly also . consist mainlv of fibres, those of the uterus, and both these conast mainly ^ , On the other head there are exceptions m the ca encephaloi(i. and of the meninges to be deter- The species of cancer termed epitlielia ,