506 CHRONIC PHTHISIS (mixed and tubercular). consolidated portion becomes softer and more cheesy, -while the outer portion becomes harder and more fibroid. In this way begin the two most important processes of chronic phthisis, viz., softening or breaking down and induration. The former process may go on to the formation of a cavity, as will be shown hereafter. If the latter preponderate, the degenerated tissue may become surrounded by a firm capsule and thus become obsolete (Fig. 114), and the disease may thus be arrested, as is more minutely described below. If the disease extend over the whole of a lobe a much greater J variety is seen in the products to which it gives rise. Besides some masses of caseous matter, we shall find fibroid tissue, peri- bronchial thickenings, and broncho-pneumonic granulations, be- sides, in all probability, true miliary tubercles. If these are very numerous the appearances presented will not be distinguish- able from those seen in cases in which the disease commences with the production of miliary tubercles or chronic tuberculosis. It is impossible to give any description of the manifold appearances which result from the intermixture of all these products, and we can only describe separately the chief morbid processes on which they depend. , Necrosis, Caseation, and Brealcing-Down.—The death and de- generation which lead to the formation of caseous masses affect both the new formations, whether inflammatory or tubercular, and the original tissue. Various explanations have been given of this decay, or “ necrobiosis,” in different cases. Ns to the inflammatory products which choke up the alveoli, their history is, up to a cer- tain point, the same as that of ordinary pneumonic products, and, like these, they might undergo fatty degeneration, softening, and elimination. They do,.however, become dry, cheesy, and crumb- ling'. This change has been explained by the mutual pressure exercised by the newly-formed cells tightly packed together m the air spaces, which interferes with then; nutrition. Ii this accumu- lation of inflammatory products continue so that the pressure is still further increased, the blood-vessels become obliterated, and more rapid necrosis, leading to softening, occurs, which involves also the lung tissues. According to Virchow, the early decay o phthisical products is a special property of the elements formed m all the diseases called “ scrofulous.” According to others, it is tne property of the newly-formed elements in so far as there is a gener diathesis or constitution of the body which causes all new forma- tions to be incapable of higher development and liable to early degeneration and death. In all these theories something moic i wanting to account for the actual death of the tissues themse vis. This is explained by an old observation,, lately revived by Wilson Fox, that the vessels, both capillaries and smaller arJ*n > in parts affected with tubercle, are often found obliterated. Hence the obliteration and destruction of vessels is regarded as theca me of caseation and necrosis, both of the morbid products and of tissues of the part, this obliteration being caused by growth