PLEUEXTIS. 524 of the pleura; they appear to he active agents in effecting the absorption of a portion of the exudation matter, and after awhile a retrograde process ensues, and they in part cease to exist, the earliest trace of vessels which we have ourselves discovered in a case of acute pleuritic effusion occupying the base of one lung, where, as yet, no adhesions had taken place, and the cream \ efiu- sion was yet eminently fibrinous, exhibited the appeal ance of small coils, near the edge of the lymph, closely resembling a renal Malpighian tuft, into which two vessels could be seen entering; the sharp outlines of the formations, and a somewhat lighter tinge than the surrounding fibrine, alone marked them ; they con- tained no blood corpuscles, and it was, therefore, only by inference that they were concluded to be young vascular channels, ine thickness of the false membrane varies from a delicate him to many lines; it may itself become the seat of secondary inflam- mation, but in most cases it exerts a repulsive influence upon fresh attacks, and assists in protecting the adjacent parts from encroachment. A marked instance of this occurred under our observation lately, in an old man who had suffered a fracture of seven ribs of the left side, followed by inflammation of the corre- sponding pleura. The two surfaces of the upper half of the pleural sac had formed intimate adhesions, and the subjacent pulmonary parenchyma had remained in a healthy condition ; the lower haff contained two and a half pints of turbid serum, there was a thick layer of false membrane on the corresponding half of the lun* and this part of the organ was rendered unfit for respiration by thp inflammatory process transmitted to it. . , • Accumulation If Fluid.-The amount of hqrnd effusion resultmg from pleurisy varies from the smallest appreciable quantity to a- mudi as twelve pints. A case in which this amount was removed from a man aged thirty-three by paracentesis thoracm ^enby Dr. Novarra, in the < ‘ Medical Repository for,1820. Jr. Hod fan details an interesting case of empyema which itself through the bronchi, and m which, aftei death, three arge basins were filled with the sero-purulent contents ol one pleural & • Liquid effusion not only necessarily induces “ , “ lung on the affected side, pushing it upwards, but also dispk^ the adjoining viscera; the heart is forced over to r- ^ when the effusion is into the left pleural cavity, if ,mj;0 "r i4vpl. jg denressed : in both cases the diaphragm is forced down, ta^owStetterferea with while the intercstol sp^e ¥ the affected side exhibit a marked prominence, and the r maintained in an elevated position. These anatoimcM featare^ extensive pleuritic effusion can scarcely be too n ^ upon in the bearing they have upon diagnosis. However, we must bear in mind that exceptional cases occur, in winch- r £ a partial reabsorption of the fluid having been effected, the • “ Lectures on the Morbid Anatomy, &c.,” vol. i. P- 121-