NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. C97 condition of tension, if long continued, produces hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart. * While the changes just mentioned do not, as a rule, accompany the parenchymatous, or more acute form of Bright’s disease, perhaps on account of its rapid course, there are certain conse- quences equally associated with either form. These are inflam- mations of the serous membranes and pneumonia. Dropsy in various forms, as oedema, or effusion into the serous cavities, &c., is constant in the parenchymatous disease, but in the granular form always a late symptom, and sometimes quite absent. Uraemic convulsions and coma often come on in both forms of disease in the last stage. Vomiting is more common in contracted granular kidney. The peculiar affection of the retina referred to above, shown by white patches near the entrance of the optic nerve, and often accompanied by spots of haemorrhage, is a common and charac- teristic sign of granular degeneration never seen in the other form of Bright’s disease. NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. Tubercle. Two forms are known in which tubercle, or scrofulous disease, occurs in the kidney. The first is in the form of discrete miliary granulations, in cases of general tuberculosis ; the second more special to the kidney, which may be called renal phthisis. !• In acute miliary tuberculosis granulations are found in the kidney in a large proportion of cases. The tubercles in acute cases are hard and grey, not more than one-eighth of an inch in diameter. In more chronic cases they increase in size, and become yellowish and opaque—perhaps becoming confluent into larger masses; though it is doubtful where a complete infiltration of large por- +L°nS the 01»an.arises iu this way. Minute examination shows that the tubercle is formed, in such cases, entirely in the inter- stitial stroma, which becomes infiltrated over a limited area with the small-celled growth. The tubes in the neighbourhood of the tubercle show mostly a granular degeneration of their epithe- lium, and become choked with molecular debris, but there are sometimes hyperplastic and inflammatory changes, shown by the formation of new cells and hyaline cylinders. We have never seen (in several specimens examined) anything that could be called tubercle within the tubes. 2. In the form which we have-called renal phthisis the disease is loLBnS\* ReP°rts of Medical Cases,” 1827. “ Guy’s Hosp. Reports,” vol. i. p 338 1830. Bng-ht and Barlow, Guy’s Hospital Reports,” 2nd series, vol i p 223 1843’ fare, vk'igtiS-