1-10 VAGINITIS. covered. This result is out of the question, when, as occasionally happens, the child escapes into the peritoneal cavity. Vagin"us. The mucous membrane of the vagina is very fre- quently the seat of inflammation; the commonest form is the catarrhal. In the first stage the passage is reddened, heated, and diy, this is followed by the secretion of a white, creamy mucus; or, if there ^e anything of a specific character, the discharge is more purulent or flaky. The mucous secretion, which serves to lubricate the vagina in health, may be poured out iu large quantities under certain con- ditions of plethora or weakness, and this already complex acid fluid, mingled with a free alkaline secretion from the glands lining the cervix uteri, forms a curdled white albuminous fluid, which flowing from the vulva constitutes leucorrhcea. This white dis- charge contains always more or less of altered epithelium, and it may be so abundant as to gravely affect the health of the sufferer. The cervix uteri is doubtless often implicated, but as the acid of the vagina is sufficient to neutralize the alkaline secretion of the uterus, the fact of the latter being frequent and copious is masked; hence the discrepancy of the opinions of various authors on the subject of the source of leucorrhoea. The external surface of the os uteri, according to Dr. Tyler Smith, yields a secretion of the same character as the vagina itself. In both, eczematous vesicles are frequently met with, which the same author regards as identical with the ovula Nabothi, which, by seme, have been interpreted as obstructed follicles, but Dr. Tyler Smith asserts that they are often found in situations where mucous follicles cannot be detected. False Membranes.—Bokitansky and Forster describe exudative, or croupous and diphtheritic processes, occurring in the vaginal mucous membrane primarily, but more frequently in conjunction with a similar disease of the uterus, in the shape of puerperal disease. Simi- lar pseudo-membranaceous disease is said also to occur in the course of typhus, pyaemia, cholera, and the exanthemata; but these affec- tions are probably rare in this country. Dr. Barnes states that diphtheria of the vagina occurs especially in lying-in hospitals. He also mentions a form of vaginal inflammation; in which the surface is covered with pellicles or flakes consisting almost entirely of agglomerated epithelial scales, and distinguished from the diphtheritic false membrane by being white and brittle. For this affection, which is not usually attended by febrile symptoms, he suggests the name pseudo-diphtherilis. A complete epithelial false membrane, like the dysmenorrheeal false membranes from the uterus, is preserved in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. Gonorrhoeal vaginitis is difficult to distinguish from the simpler form; but, according to Dr. Barnes, the redness is much more intense, there is copious muco-purulent secretion of yellowish or greenish tint, and it affects more especially the fundus of the vagina, with some implication of the vaginal portion of the uterus.