CANCER OF THE STOMACH. 571 their inner surface; the cavity of the stomach will at the same time he diminished in size.* In 120 cases collected by Kohler, fifty-nine occurred at the pylorus, seventeen on the lesser curva- ture, eleven on anterior and posterior surfaces, eight at the cardiac extremity, three on the greater curvature, three involving the whole stomach, and in one case at several points. Dr. Walshe states that cancer of the orifices may extend to the duodenum or the oesophagus. Kokitansky affirms “ that cancer of the pylorus is accurately bounded by the pyloric ring, and hardly ever extends to the duodenum,” whereas cancer at the cardia invariably in- volves a portion of the oesophagus. "We certainly think that scir- rhous disease of the pylorus does not extend much beyond its original site, at least along the intestine, although it may propa- gate itself to the head of the pancreas, or the adjacent lymphatic glands. Commonly, as Eokitansky describes it, the scirrhous pylorus is bound down by the degeneration of the tissues lying Fig. 132. Scirrhus Pylori. At the diseased part the walls of the stomach are extremely thickened, and of a whitish colour. behind it, hut in other cases it remains moveable, and may bo felt as a distinct tumour having descended more or less over to the lower part of the abdomen. The pylorus, the cardiac orifice, the greater, and lastly, the lesser curvature are liable, according to * this condition the following is an example A. M., art. 63, dying with general chronic peritonitis and ascites. The stomach was very much contracted in all its extent, its coats were very much thickened, the muscular especially, the mucous membrane was apparently intact and thrown into foldB. The muscular fibres were very evident and this tissue was greatly hypertrophied. Hete and there, in the sub- stance of it, nuclei and eellcoipuscles were seen. These were, however, much more abundant in the snbmmf^tissue, where they were very conspicuous. The new growth had also evidently mfiltiated the mucous membrane and destroyed the tubes oL" "cihv0n y ,ra<,e,K c0,,!d 1,0 sc™’ the substance of the membrane being f c.0,pusolcs. The liver was small, contained no cancer, nor were there any enlarged glands.