BILIARY CALCULI. 641 Fig. 147. Fig. 146. r •with the exception of their nuclei, consist almost entirely of cholesterine, and are therefore whitish and crystalline, their sectional surface presenting a number of striae radiating from the centre. Small gall-stones, resembling grains of black pepper of an irregular tuberculated form and almost black colour, are occasionally found: they consist almost entirely of pigment and earthy matter, the carbonate and phosphate of lime. Cholesterine generally forms the principal mass of biliary calculi; it often alternates with layers of pigment, and al- most always itself surrounds a nucleus of the same matter. Some are composed chiefly of carbonate of lime. The secretion of a large quantity of cho- lesterine does not seem to be the essential and adequate circumstance for the formation of gall-stones: the gall- bladder sometimes con- tains mucus loaded with sparkling tablets of this substance, with- out any trace of calculi. It seems most probable that pigment granules cemented together by mucus first constitute a nucleus, round which cholesterine afterwards is deposited in layers. Other matters, how- ever, may serve as a nucleus: blood, a por- tion of a distoma, or a lumbricus, or even a pin, are said to have been found in this situation. Gall-stones are not peculiar to, or specially associated with, any condition of the liver they are said to be most frequent with cancer, but very often occur in other states; they are more often found in females than males, in the proportion of 4 or 5 to 1,—rarely before, but often after the middle period of life. A sedentary life, and obese condition of body, are favourable to the formation of gall-stones; they are not, however, unfrequently present in lean and temperate persons. As cholesterine is a variety of fatty matter this might seem surprising, did we not remember that its formation may be referred to a kind of fatty degeneration, as veil as to the presence of an increased quantity of oil in the system. From a gall bladder which was shrunken, a calculus being impacted in the cystic duct. a, Cholesterine tablets, b, Glomeruli. Gall bladder and cystic duet containing calculi, which have a crust of pure cholesterine. The' two upper are divided. (From Dr. Budd’s Work.)