CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, ANI) SCROFULOUS GLANDS. 419 r regimen, in consequence of which the parts regain their normal - size and appearance. The histological changes in the chronic form appear to consist chiefly in the increase of the intercellular fibrous - structure or matrix of the gland which may come to predominate oyer the cellular elements, though normally the converse is the e case (Fig. 95). Hypertrophy of the glands is met with chiefly in childhood, and ■ is often the sign of some constitutional weakness or diathesis, though sometimes no such predisposition can he traced. Enlarged e glands may he perfectly normal in structure, and thus be truly l hypertrophied, but, perhaps, in most cases the enlargement is com- plicated either with chronic inflammation or with some of the changes now to be enumerated. CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, AND SCROFULOUS GLANDS. It sometimes happens, especially in the young, that glands which :are chronically enlarged, with or without previous inflammation of the parts with which they are connected, undergo a peculiar form of degeneration or metamorphosis, which results in the pro- duction of the yellow caseous matter called “yellow tubercle,” or “scrofulous matter,” which we have already described in the first part. This change occurs especially in persons having what is called a scrofulous constitution, a term which we have before i: discussed.* Changes very similar are seen in the glands connected with organs in which there is a production of tubercle, using this word in the strict sense formerly explained. When this change is far advanced, no difference can be seen between the cases affected with tubercle and those in which there is no disease or simple inflammation of the adjacent organs. Hence all these changes were at one time confounded together under the same name. Subse- quently, by examining early stages of the metamorphosis, patho- logists (especially Virchow) have shown that the strictly tubercular disease differs anatomically as well as clinically from that in. which no tubercles are present. We have .accordingly to consider separately the scrofulous and the tubercular affections of the glands. Scrofulous Glands.—The changes in lymphatic glands, called scrofulous, appear to be always dependent'on some morbid changes m the organs whence the glands derive their lymph, and especially on inflammatory changes. There is, however, "this peculiarity, that the primary or exciting cause maybe acute and transitory, and the resulting secondary affection of the glands chronic or permanent. pie morbid process in the glands consists essentially in multipli- cation of the cellular parts or lymph corpuscles, and hence is at hrst a simple cellular hyperplasia. The newly-formed lymph cells have, however, certain peculiarities; they are imperfectly organ-