203 SYPHILITIC PRODUCTS, OR SYPHILOMA. of extreme difficulty, and cannot be said to be as yet set at rest.* Tubercle as the Primary Formation.—On the other hand, there are some pathologists who believe that tubercle is always the primary formation in the diseases called tubercular, and that as in the case of cancer or other morbid growths, the associated changes are secondary. They contend that (a) it often occurs without any preceding lesion ; (6) that lesions, per se, seem to have little or no power to produce it, without concurrent mal-nutrition and other circumstances; (c) that if it were secondary, he., depend- ent on some previous lesion or infection, it ought after a time to get well, per se, as pyiemia occasionally does, if the patient live long enough. Wilson Fox has lately urged, that in pulmonary phthisis all the changes are dependent upon primary formation of tubercle and accompanying inflammation. Caseation he believes not to take place without the presence of tubercle, and he would therefore restore the old meaning of yellow tubercle.f Schiippel has done the same for the so-called “scrofulous” lymphatic glands, which he believes to be always originally tubercular. J ° Finally, it must be said that many authorities believe in a peculiar constitutional state (of the blood or tissues)—dyscrasia— which precedes the production of tubercle, and may be regarded as the cause of its peculiar vital properties. This state maybe ' t1°( Tar!ous deteriorating influences, or may be inherited, e tact ot heredity again is explained by some as depending upon a peculiar weakness or vulnerability of the tissues. These questions ■ it is impossible for us to discuss. SYPHILITIC PRODUCTS, OR SYPHILOMA. Constitutional syphilis produces in various organs a species of . ne^ growth which is, like tubercle, intermediate between inflam- matory products and tumours or new growths, properly so called, t may be in the form of a diffuse infiltration, or of an apparently i a^lUrr\SCrT,)0(J.rTna'ss- The name syphiloma was given to these pro- ducts by K Wagner, whose account we chiefly follow. It refers principally to what are called gummata. feyphiloma, when of recent formation, is a soft homogeneous . neht,^ mWi w 'A^v^f88^?" : SoMimrfr°^\7fdebat,e which ,?rIIo!Ped-thfi most diverse views we exp esi h“