782 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE MAMMAL of a tender induration surrounding the nipple, attended with some heat and pain, but lasting for so short a time as rarely to be brought under the notice of the surgeon. In the period following puberty, and especially during lacta- tion, irregularities in the exalted functional activity are prone to give rise to general hypertrophy, or into local hypertrophies which assume the form of adenoceles, and more especially into the inflammations which are so frequently forerunners of abscess, either acute or chronic, and into cystic tumours. It is in the period of involution, or the commencement of the atrophic changes, which mark the cessation of active physiological processes, that the graver forms of breast disease—and notably scirrhus—are met with. Inflammation of the breast, although it may be met with at all ages as the result of injury, or as one of the manifestations of those manifold conditions which are grouped together under the head of struma—in which case the inflammatory action is usually very slow and suppuration long delayed—is generally a compli- cation of lactation. Any interference with tne due performance of this function is prone to lead to inflammation and abscess. Hence one very common exciting cause is the sudden cessation of suckling, or allowing the breasts to become engorged with milk. Prolonged lactation, also, with its drain upon the general health, is apt to set up inflammation. A very common accompanying con- dition, upon which Mr. Birkett lays much stress, is some defect in the nipple, causing either soreness or blocking of the ducts. It produces congestion in one or more parts, accompanied by swell- ing, interstitial effusibn, condensation, and finally, if the disease be not arrested, suppuration and abscesses. The glandular texture itself, or more frequently the intercellular tissue, is the primary seat of lesion ; the lacteal secretion frequently continuing during the inflammatory process, and even after a chronic state of indu- ration and enlargement has been established, which has led to the removal of the organ. When the inflammation is confined to the true gland structure, the resulting tumefaction is irregular and lobulated, and deeper seated than when the interstitial or cuta- neous tissues are mainly involved. When suppuration is estab- lished, it may be limited to one spot by adhesive inflammation, and the abscess be evacuated by pointing, as it usually does, near the nipple ; or, a burrow7ing sinuses form, which may extend to a considerable distance. The symptoms of mammary abscess do not differ materially from those of suppuration in other parts. Besides the constitutional disturbance, which may be very severe, one or more lobes of the breast become indurated, swollen, and. very tender and painful; the skin after a time betrays the mischief beneath by its redness and oedema, and finally the abscess points at one or more places, and slowly drains away. The practical surgeon distinguishes three kinds of abscess about the breast, viz.: the true mammary abscess, in which the glandu-