MORBID CONDITIONS OF G04 a crow-quill. A tuberiform growth, occupying only one side of : the intestine, also gives rise to considerable constriction ; but this is not so great generally as in the former case. The narrowing of f the passage, it is manifest, will be greatest -while the growth remains in its original (crude) state; but if, as not unfrequently happens, sloughing and ulceration take place in the morbid mass, the obstructed passage will be again more or less reopened. In many cases, however, the obstruction to the passage of the contents is such that the portion of the canal above the structure becomes immensely dilated, with its muscular tunic much hypertrophied, and its mucous on the contrary sometimes thinned, while that below contracts upon itself and becomes very small. Death often takes place in cases of intestinal cancer from the supervention of ileus and inflammation. The ileus is set up not only in consequence; of the stricture preventing the passage of the contents of the bowel, for it may ensue when the canal is still tolerably pervious;; but from the paralyzed condition of the walls of the intestine in the- dilated and distended part, and from the masses of the fecal matter: which accumulate there. Inflammation attacks first the dilated! part of intestine, “ and is there most intense. This portion is dis- coloured, of a dark blue or reddish aspect, its coats are infiltrated, with blood; the serous lining covered with exudation is easily- detached, the muscular coat is discoloured and friable; the mucous membrane, owing to its distension, is devoid of plicre, villi, or follicles; dark red, distended at some parts with coagula, and. siouahy.” There is usually ulceration of a portion of bowel thus distended; sometimes perforation and its consequences take place- MORBID CONDITIONS OF PARTICULAR PARTS OF THE INTESTINES.- Typhlitis, Perityphlitis.—'The frequent occurrence of catarrRal inflammation in the caecum has been already mentioned ; hut Eokitansky directs attention to a particular form which he tenm Typhlitis stercoralis, indicating thereby its production by accumula- tion of indigestible and ftecal matters in this situation. Sedentary non OI linages uiuio aiiu icceax — . . , f. habits and “rheumatism” of the muscular coat of the bo web are also stated to be causes of the disease. We believe tbe proximate cause to be atony of the contractile fibres. ‘ Kemovai of the accumulated feces, and avoidance of fresh ^cumula- tions, generally suffice to establish a cure. If this is not eflec ulcerative destruction of the mucous membrane, and continue sinuous suppuration of the muscular coat, result. In tins ma™ rapid perforation of the intestinal parietes, and especially ot tn posterior side, may follow, either inducing extensive inflammation ichorous destruction of the cellular tissue in the iliac and regions, and death; or giving rise to general peritonitis trom transmission of the inflammation to the serous membrane. TnflTmmation sometimes attacks the lax cellular tissue which lie,