679 MORBUS BRIGHTII. very generally translucent, as if soaked in wax, and of a yellowish colour, while the cortex is diminished. Iodine produces the most marked change in the pyramids, which, especially the papillae, are stained of a dark brown. The same colour is seen on the surface of the pelvis, and sometimes even in the ureters and the mucous membrane of the bladder. The first form shows the manner in which the disease first attacks the kidney, through the small arte- ries and glomeruli; while it is only in cases of long standing that we find the pyramids so much affected as in the second form. The peculiar distribution of the infiltration in the latter suggests a transference of material from the cortex to the papilla:1. It is only seen in cases of very advanced disease, and the ordinary appear- ance of the disease is that first described. Microscopical examination shows in the glomeruli and small arteries the changes represented in Fig. 155, where it will be noticed that the injection has filled a part only of the glomerulus, an evidence of the most important fact in this morbid condition that it limits the supply of blood to the organ. This sufficiently explains the ansemic condition of a waxy kidney. No similar de- generation is usually seen in the renal epithelium, except in very advanced cases, when the epithelium of the straight tubes and the contents of the tubes—i.e., hyaline matter and altered epithelium, sometimes undergo such a change as to be stained by iodine. But there are nearly always other changes associated with the larda- ceous degeneration of the vascular parts—viz., changes in the tubes identical with those in one form of Bright’s disease, tubular nephritis, and changes in the interstitial stroma, which are cha- racteristic of those seen in the other or cirrhotic form of that disease. The discussion of these mixed types of disease must be deferred. The causes of waxy degeneration have already been discussed ; there is generally nothing to explain why it should specially affect the kidney. MORBUS BRIGHTII. Degenerative Disease of the Kidney; Desquamative and Non- desquamative Nephritis; Subacute Inflammation of the Kidney. These names refer to an extremely common and important disease or diseases of the kidney, whose main features were discovered by Dr. Bright, but whose real nature is still a matter of doubt. In calling it a degenerative disease, we have expressed our own opinion respecting it, which coincides very closely with that held by the late Dr. Prout. Dr. Bright (according to Dr. Wilks) dis- tinguished two forms of disease with two corresponding conditions of the kidney, and these in their broad features represent the two types of disease which we shall describe. The first is a com- paratively acute disease, with a marked beginning, and definite symptoms of which dropsy is always one; the other, a chronic but