HYPERTROPHY OF THE BRAIN. 271 it we must in many instances attribute it to a non-inflammatorv change in the nutrient sphere. We find portions of the brain both at the surface and in the deeper seated parts presenting no material alteration heyond an increased density as compared with surround- mg parts. This is distinct from the hardened cicatrices resulting from the absorption of apoplectic effusions. A general hardening ' ot tbe ?ram accompanied by a livid earthy hue, and an increase of the entire volume of the organ is met with in chronic lead poison- ing ; the convolutions are found flattened, the ventricles are com- I pressed, the tissue is dry ; and a chemical analysis will detect the ] presence of sulphate of lead in the brain. Tanquerol des Planches 1 records two cases in which this was done. It is also found in cases of acute lead poisoning.! A similar state of induration and hypertrophy of the white substance is stated by Ferrus and Par- chappe and by Dr. Boyd to be found in epilepsy. Partial or localized induration seems to be the result of a slow 1 “^minatory or hyperplastic process affecting the connective-tissue .matrix or neuroglia ot the brain. This tissue, and especially the ' I .w! ?efRerebrH; a,rte”es’ ^del-go a hyperplastic change (as shown by the multiplication of nuclei), and thus compresses aand destroys the nervous elements. The process is analogous to fw W11! m «?pi!lalvCOr,I1’ and wil1 be further considered under that head. It affects the white substance of the brain ; viz., either the central portion of the cerebral hemispheres, the corpus cal- " f°rniXi ,fimbria- septum pellucidum, tractus opticus, evp?f neniCUlata’ C1?ra 9erebn> P°us, or medulla oblongata, and eventually causes contraction and deformity of the part h HYPERTROPHY OF THE BRAIN. Although in adult life when the skull is completely formed disease cannot cause any alterahon in the size of the brain, as it oes m other organs, very great variations due to original develop- ed tar° met with; and m early life disease may cause a remark- uble increase in the size and weight of the organ; though as ,J“f apP,ears bj be d'le to tbo excessive formation of non-nervous Se4’ation.USt n0t b° SP°ken °f &S hyPertropby without a certain Specie Hypertrophy of the Brain.-In a case of hvpertronhv on emoving the skull-cap, the brain seems to expand, as ifh/had •oeen prevrousiy confined in too narrow a space; the membranes tbe convolutions are flattened by bcirn- compressed Jgamst the bone, and the ventricles are found‘to contain veiy little >r uo fluid On making a horizontal section, the grev matter is * been altered, and the naked-eye view displays an 'increase in ’ ZfSSXZ!* i83.Maladie®de voi. ii. p. a*. paris, 183fl.