449 BRONCHITIS. t Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. v. p. 41. The mucous membrane of the bronchi, like the mucous membrane of the urmo- genital organs, occasionally exhibits a chronic affection ot this kind, in which, without marked symptoms of an inflam- matory character, the membrane pours out a plastic exudation which forms, what have been termed, bronchial polypi; that is to say’ more or less complete moulds of the bronchial tubes, sometimes solid or even laminated, sometimes hollow. These casts are usually expectorated m a curiously convoluted form, being rolled up, as it were, into pellets during the act of expectoration; but when placed in. water, expand into an arborescent form cor- responding to the ramifications of the bronchi. The process some- times extends^ into the very smallest tubes, and we have seen the cas.s teimmiued by a rough mould of the alveolar spaces, a fact which connects this affection with pneumonia. The “ nolvni ” n-rp composed of a firm network of fibrin, enclosing numerous leu- rSd antu S°me t6W red C01'Puscles; 80 that in structure they •resemble the pneumonic exudation. Their expulsion is often a^mpamed or preceded by bronchial haemorrhage, but there is not mffiment leason for concluding, as some have done, that the casts d sm', VTlm?tbrP)°'S> f C°aguktelblood. Sir Thomas Watson luseryes, that though it is surprising that patients should recover the affection, it never in itself seems to prove fatal. Dr Reid* las reported two cases of tubular expectoration from the bronchi ™ aduby with delineations, which closely resemble bat given by Dr. Baillie. in his work on Morbid Anatomy. In one patient, a married lady, aged twenty-eight, affected with a hromc cough, consequent upon an attack of bronchitis, frequently M m °atlVe 1a1tta°ks’ cou-hed UP arborescent meSanorm cm,! ’ resembll,n.g casts of the minute bronchial tubes ■ the tSled " plenum, aged forty-four, and closely , rerVeXCept there was more manifest conges- aei^ refection eachmore of a sanguineous character, and , * rtJ^ct?on eath time accompanied by some hsemorrlno-o Tf 3 ^ b° m°-’e frC(iueilt on the continent of Europe where the ! iSftS„Camear0ff r1 amoi' Itpp Empress Josephme is the best known. & i-J of th; 1 SOm° yeal’n ag0 analyzed more than thirty recorded thelti"ldlSeaS?>. and found tbat the great majority occurred Urn male sex, andin persons m middle life. In about half • #~ "suaIly due 10 «• “"se' ) ihere are some ciifficulties in tho of 1 'onclM (;xudabon being produced upon such a surface as’the ! flCbal mUC0US “^raue when it'is found (as S^uaUyt) , ,, Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,” v ol. xxxvii. p. 333.