ADVENTITIOUS GROWTHS OF THE DURA MATER. 230 diseased brain. A delineation of this affection is given in Dr. Bright’s medical reports. . . . ,. c Cysts of the kind called dermoid, arising from an involution ot the integument at an early stage of development, and containing fat or hair, sometimes occur in the dura mater, and may fctretci1 inwards into the interior of the brain. A remarkable case ot this kind is referred to by Mr. Paget, and carefully described by Dr. J. W. 0°ie.* It occurred in a child two and a-haii } ears old; the cyst contained a lock of dark hair, with some fatty ^Growths of a lipomatous character are occasionally found attached to the inner surface of the dura mater. . We have already seen that the dura mater is frequently subiect to secondary inflammation, owing to the extension ot scrofulous or tubercular inflammation from adjoining bones; it may thus, as also by extension of tubercular disease trom the cerebral tissue, become the seat of tubercular deposit; but the primary deposit of tubercle in the dura mater is probably never ^Cancerous Tumours.— Tumours of a cancerous nature not unfre- quently grow from the dura mater; and, although the term funj^s of the dura mater” may occasionally have been falsely apphed to carcinomatous formations within the cranial bones, still morbid anatomy supplies numerous instances of undoubted cancer of the dura mater. It occurs either in the form ot an infiltration of the membrane—in consequence of which the dura mater becomes thickened, and may, by degrees, communicate the carcinomatous infection to the arachnoid, or the bones ; or it assumes the torrn o a rounded tumour, which generally consists of medullary cancer, and pushes its way through the adjoining bone. It is commonly very vascular, and generally occupies a situation near tie vertex When it forces its way through the osseous panetes, these form a ring round it, and the external table ot the cranial bone will prefent a smaller opening than the internal table Its growth becomes very much more rapid when it has passed the bound, m whTch it is first kept by the skull, and the soft parts soon become mYSypMl^yrowths of^the dura mater are not unfrequently observed. They may grow on the outside, and then cause erosion of the bone- or on the inside, when causing adhesion ot the arach- noid they may penetrate through the membranes into he brain itself They usually form roundish, flattened masses, which may af+oin i thickness of one-tilird. to halt an inch. . .. Defects and Malformations.—The dura mater mely exhibite any midformation or defect, beyond those spoken of, except that the • “ Trans. Path. Soe.,” vol. vi. p. 12. . , ■ << path. Soc.,” vol. iv. + Cases of cancer of the dura mater may be found in irons, xanu o , 1853, pp. 2 and 7.