ATROPHY. 273 Rokitansky has observed hypertrophy of the medulla oblongata, while Virchow and others have described cases of the new forma- tion of brain substance in the form of a tumour on the walls of the ventricles. Hernia Cerebri, or Fungus Cerebri.—As a result of local injury, we meet with a species of fungoid growth of the brain, which has been termed hernia cerebri, but which is very different from the hernia cerebri to which allusion has been made, in the section treating of congenital hydrocephalus. In consequence of a fracture of the skull, the brain appears to sprout forth in the shape of a vascular, medullary growth. It appears as if the brain, released from its contineinent, luxuriated in its newly-acquired liberty. Extensive suppuration is generally found accompanying this form of hernia, within the brain. According to Forster, the mass much resembles granulations on the skin, being composed of loops of dilated and elongated capil- laries, from which proceed offshoots of newly-formed vessels, the whole being surrounded by granular masses and cells, having the general character of pus-cells; while the nervous structures disappear. The whole is thus a loose kind of granulation tissue, which must be regarded as an outgrowth of the non-nervous, i.e., vascular and connective-tissue elements of the brain substance. ATROPHY. The converse of hypertrophy is a condition which, as we have ; already had occasion to remark, is the result of a natural process 1 in old age; but it is also the effect of disease; or of an arrest of 1 development. In consequence of long-standing exhausting illness in children, Dr. West informs us that the brain is found far from * “iling up the cavity of the skull, so that a knife may be passed in i many places between it and the cranial walls. The same appear- • ance is met with in the adult, and the consequence is that serum is effused between the brain and its envelopes in order to supply the defect; the convolutions become thinner and they are sepa- ' rated by broader sulci. There is some discoloration of the tissue, .and the veins of the pia mater are observed to present a vari- cose appearance, owing to the loss of support which they experi- ence. We also meet with partial atrophy; this is generally of a secondary character, owing to pressure exerted upon individual parts by tumours or other adventitious growths, apoplectic cysts in the arachnoid or peripheral lesions. The absorption induced by the effect of pressure is accompanied by induration of the adjoining layers of tho cerebral tissue. The atrophy that is found as a result S? arrest in the functions of a peripheral nerve, as in the case of the optic thalamus in amaurosis is a marked instance of the in flu- h ta °f fuuctional fierangement upon nutrition, propagated to a T