CYSTOED TUMOURS. 158 Cysts like those of the ovary, containing skin or its products (hair, fatty matter from sebaceous glands), and called by Sir J. Pa°*et cutaneous •proliferous cysts, are occasionally found in other parts, as the subcutaneous tissue, the testicle, lung, and other viscera, and even within the skull. They appear to be always congenital, and their origin has been explained by the supposition that at an early stage of development a portion of the integument becomes enclosed by the growth of the surrounding parts, and, finally, quite separated from the surface. In one very remarkable instance, a cyst containing teeth and bone was found in the anterior mediastinum. Simple cysts nou unfrequently occur in the mammary gland, or rather in the dense areolar tissue investing it; they have a wall of condensed fibrous tissue, and according to Mr. Birkett, are lrned by a characteristic epithe- lium, consisting of hexagonal particles. Their contents are either limpid, opalescent, non-albuminous fluid, or a tenacious, slimy, opaque, variously coloured, and concentrated solution of albumen. When combined with a peculiar growth of gland tissue advancmg into their cavity, these tumours constitute the sero-cystic sarcoma, of which we shall speak more particularly when we come to the morbid anatomy of the mammary gland. Cystic formation may take place in various kinds of tumours, m fibrous, carcinomatous, sarcomatous, and may be a more or less prominent phenomenon. (2) Compound cysts. The chief seat of these is m the ovanes, where they present two principal modes of development. In one Fig. 27. of these the parent cyst, which for the most par contonesto pre- dominate in size, gives origin to a second generataon of cyste, aad then again to a third, and so on. The consecutive series (cyst are developed in the walls of their parents, butlo :> and occupy their cavities; the result is a mufidocula mass macle up of numberless cysts which are filled with very’ These may be tolerably limpid and clear, ^ ^tTeles or greenish ; may contain a very large number of W very few; may he variously coloured by I?.00 loaded with formation, or even replaced by a solid klas , occur in blood corpuscles; fat, hair, teeth, and bone, J