ENDOCARDITIS. 318 blood is in contact with the parietes of a cavity, and for this reason it is observed, as pointed out by Hasse,* in the following descend- ing order : darkest in the right auricle, paler in the right ventricle, with the exception of the valves of the pulmonary artery, which are as deeply coloured as the auricle; still paler in the left auricle, whilst the left ventricle often retains quite its natural tint, except that the aortic valves are darker. In the great vessels, the posterior surface is strikingly dark, in comparison with the anterior. _ We rarely have an opportunity of seeing endocarditis in its first stage. Eokitansky and Hope describe inflammatory redness of the endocardium as mottled. Dr. Dope states it to be less cha- racterized by streaks, patches, isolated unstained spots, and abrupt edges, than non-inflammatory imbibition. Another change is that of "opacity of the lining membrane. This alteration in the appear- ance of the endocardium also changes it in other respects, it loses its glaze and becomes dull, relaxed, milky, and velvety. In rare cases, an adhesion has been found effected between opposite points of the parietes. When the inflammatory process extends to the valves, the consequent change m their relation to the blood current, gives rise to those physical signs which are of so much value in the diagnosis of cardiac affection. It has been supposed that inflammation of the endocardium must be like that of the pericardium or other serous membranes, accom- panied by the production or “exudation” of lymph on its free surface; and that it is rarely or never to be found here only because the current of blood constantly washes it away. On the other hand, it has been said that the endocardium itself is without vessels, being nourished by the current of blood within its cavity. and therefore exudation, in the ordinary sense, is impossible. Some authorities have carried this objection so far as to maintain that inflammation of the endocardium is itself impossible, tins question has led to a great deal of controversy into which we can- not enter here; but it may be laid down that no exudation of flbrin or production of inflammatory lymph on the endocardial surface has ever been proved to take place ; while on the other hand changes are observed m the endocardium, to which uo other name than that of inflammation can be applied. It has now been shown that there is beside the inflammation of the sub-endocardial structures which produces the phenomena already described, a multiplication of the connective-tissue cells of the inner coat, which gives rise to the appearance or a deposit or exudation. Endocarditis affects the valves far more commonly than any other part; so much so, that when we speak of endocarditis wg 2-enerallv mean tin affection of tbo \ alvcs. » i The results of endocardial inflammation are frequently °bsCTV« in tho aortic and mitral valves as a consequence of rheumatism. * “ An Anatomical Description of the Diseases of the Organs of Circulation, Soc. Ed., p. 128.