NEW GROWTH OF BONE. 14o a size above that of a hen’s egg. Sometimes they are single; but often several exist together in the same individual, and even on the same bone. In texture they vary considerably from that extreme degree of density which constitutes the “ ivory exostosis” to the porosity of ordinary cancellous tissue. The compact exos- tosis “ is compact from the very first, and grows in such a way that the layers which are added to it always at once become as dense as ivory.” “ When they are minutely examined the num- ber of peripheral laminae is found to be very considerable, and the corpuscles lying amongst them are long. The Haversian canals are small, and far apart,” and the corpuscles in some parts are quite absent, in others are closely crowded together. “ The spongy exostosis proceeds from a circumscribed rarefaction or expansion of the bony tissue. It forms a tumour of cellular texture, aboundin'' with marrow, which is surrounded by a compact layer or rind.” It may originate from the compact outer layer of the bone, or from its spongy interior. In some cases a tumour of this kind contains m its interior a well-formed medullary cavity, communicating with that of the bone. The spongy exostosis may remain in the same condition, or become indurated and more similar to the compact, by the deposition of more earthy substance. If, as occasionally happens, a bony tumour grows inward into’the medullary canal of a bone, it is termed an Enostosis. Exostoses often arise without any obvious cause ; sometimes they appear to develop in consequence of a blow or strain. Sometimes they grow from many parts of the skeleton at once; as if from some constitutional cause. “In most cases the periosteum covering them is in its natural condition; ” sometimes it is thickened and unusually adherent. They are not peculiar to any period of life; those of the spongy kind have been observed even in new-born infants. Spongy exostoses are sometimes aestroyed by canes; and in a few cases the ivory exostosis has become necrosed, and been thrown off. This change must pro- ceed, no doubt, from obliteration of the Haversian canals and consequent cessation of its nutrition, and would be similar to the shedding of the antlers of the stag. Osteophytes.—To this class belong a great variety of bony growths ■which form, for the most part, in inflammatory exudation, are pretty widely spread, in many cases, over a bone, and are rather easily separable from it. In these respects, and in their greater irregularity, they differ from exostoses, which are to be regarded as outgrowths from a bone, while osteophytes seem only to be riro- auced under the influence of a bone. Osteophytes, of warty or stalactite shape, are very common in the neighbourhood of diseased joints, where tho articular surfaces are affected with caries Thev result doubtless, from ossification of the exudation, derived from the adjacent hypersemic vessels. In front of tho vertebral mints and some other synchondroses, pretty long styloid or lamell J osteophytes are frequently produced, so as oven sometimes to fom L