706 ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF TOE BLADDER. embracing it; and a case is mentioned by Morgagni, in which the bladder was so closely contracted around a needle, that there was scarce room for anything more in its cavity. Hypertrophy of the muscular coat is observed in cases where that tissue is unusually exercised, and is often of a manifestly beneficial tendency. When the mucous lining is irritated by the contact of unhealthy urine, perhaps in some degree inflamed or ulcerated, the reflected stimulus from the spinal cord becomes more intense, and the contractions of the muscular fibres more energetic. Again, when in consequence of stricture, the difficulty of expelling the urine becomes great, the contractile force is increased to meet it, and this increase is occasioned by the greater exertions which are necessary. It is sometimes accompanied by dilatation, some- times there is no enlargement or even diminution of size. One of the commonest causes is obstruction caused by enlargement of the prostate. The appearance of the inner surface of a bladder whose muscular coat is hypertrophied, is peculiar, and is well compared by Rokitansky to that of the right ventricle of the heart. The muscular fasciculi become unusually prominent, and by their divisions and interlacements produce a kind of irregular network into the meshes of which the mucous membrane dips, and ihrough which it may be forced in sacculi. The technical term for this condition is columnated, or in the French original, “ vessie a colonnes.” Dr. Walsbe has seen polypoid growths from the inner surface of the bladder, consisting of prolongations of the mucous and submucous tissue, in a state of simple hypertrophy. If we except these, and the diverticula before mentioned, it does not appear that there is any true hypertrophy of the mucous lining. Rokitansky has, in rare cases, seen the mucous membrane atrophied, “reduced to a very delicate, shining membrane, resembling the arachnoid,” while the muscular coat almost entirely disappears. The bladder is liable to various displacements. It may form the contents of inguinal, vaginal, and perineal hemise, it may be introverted and forced into the urethra, and even in females i project from the meatus urinarius externally.* When hernia of the bladder occurs, it is either in. part, or, more rarely, completely destitute of peritoneal covering. This depends on the anterior part of the viscus, which has no serous covering, being the first to prolapse; but, as the organ descends, the posterior part which is lined, carries with it the peritoneum, and thus forms a sac, into which intestine or omentum is often protruded. Hypercemia of the bladder of a passive kind occurs when there is some obstruction to the free passage of blood through the pelvic veins and the vena cava; it is, therefore, associated generally with I • In the P.epcrt of (he Pathological Society, 1852-53, there is an instance recorded by Mr. Pilcher, in which about two-thirds of the bladder \*ere extruded from tne abdomen through the inguinal canal, and lodged in the scrotum. The hernial portion was large enough to contain 50 oz. of fluid.