469 PULMONARY CONGESTION. must ire forget that, in long standing debilitating disease, whether a specific fever or an adynamic condition, resulting from other dis- organizing processes, respiration is carried on with little vigour while the muscular tone is reduced to a low ebb, so that both Muses conspire to retain the blood in the pulmonary tissues. Hence in estimating the pathological changes in the lungs con- f nec^e^ with the actual disease to which death has been attributed, we must be very careful in distinguishing between the effects of dying and death itself, the secondary products of debility and dis- solution, from the changes attributable to active disease. Both however, often pass imperceptibly into one another, with gradations, which only confirm the view that disease is, in itself, incipient death. And though we may lay down rigid classifications of the modes of dissolution, and we may occasionally meet with types corresponding to our scientific arrangement, still, as Dr. Williams observes, m his “ Principles of Medicine,”—“ In the slower disso- lution by which diseases generally prove fatal, all functions and sauctures are more or less involved, and life in all is dwindled 0" n o so slight a thread, that, when it breaks in one,- others scarcely retain it long enough to enable us to say that death begins distinctly m any part. Whether we can trace the death to asthe- nia or apnoja, coma or paralysis, the prevailing effect is to induce those symptoms to which wo have above alluded, in the lesser cir- OUilltLOll. ?°nge«fn °\ nM°itasis*-The form of congestion RS 7 aUgmv ™latl0n during life, that which is induced of blond *;? m‘medlately Preceding death, and the accumulation inrl- \ e?am parts 0f, the lunSs aftel’ death, are practically mdistmgmshable, and are denoted by the common name of hypo- Srirr rT6^1011' Th‘S conSestion is most liable to affect the pos- m? h-^dfmfeia°r P°rt1™9 £ lungS ; after death, as in debility tS ° a’0m dlsease: the bl°°d follows the physical law of gravi- onconii811?8 t0 l0TSt P°lnt can gain. K thereto no ^ the congested portion presents aot,,k red colorir, and, though firmer than the more bloodless The nnlF Part’ S,U11 T°pitatea under the Soger, and floats in water. cum>? edr I8,a i° uniform, and the line of definition between the niSed and tbe non-congested portion is tolerably clear. The l 10 fenS°r?ed P°rtion Presents a corresponding Poims TVWhi‘Chif U?-l‘meS11S m01’e-0r less circumscribed at single P I'10 depth of the colour varies somewhat in different dis- S Very ::rmlC cases> esP°cially in those associated ii geneial dropsy, there is more or less serous effusion with tho sangumeous congestion. The extent to which hypostatic Tonies «ince°deUath de+pend8 P^tly- on the time ^hichhas elapsed «tatirm^r;i;^rratcs)=sediment’or a s“kins to the bott°m- ^ hyP0-