CANCER OF THE UTERUS. 766 * “ Mcd.-Ckir. Trans.” vol. xxii. p. 267. affection of the Fallopian tubes, and sometimes spreads from these. Very rarely it extends to the ceiwix uteri and vagina. Almost always there is tubercular disease of other organs also, but in some cases not. The affection is comparatively rare. Louis found three cases out of 200 phtliisical women. Syphilitic tumours havo been in one case seen in the substance of the vaginal portion of the uterus ; syphilitic ulcers or chancres are more commonly seen there, and sometimes syphilitic condylomata or papillary growths. Lardaceous degeneration of the uterus has been observed. The organ was enlarged, pale, and translucent. CANCER OP THE UTERUS. Cancer of the uterus is a disease of frequent occurrence. Dr. Lever* has shown that the proportion of cancer to other uterine affections is as one to seven, or about thirteen per cent. The period of life most obnoxious to it is that between the fortieth and fiftieth years; and though numerous examples are met with earlier in life, the statement of Boivin and Duges, that in 409 cases they found twelve under twenty years of age, can scarcely be credited, unless, as we are assured by Dr. Walshe, uterine cancer is more prevalent in the French than in our own capital. The analysis of their cases yields the following table :— Dnder 20 years of age . 12 cases. Between 20 and 30 . • 83 „ „ 34 „ 40 . • 102 „ ,, 40 „ 50 . • 201 „ ,, 50 „ 71 . . 11 „ They attribute a great share in the causation to sexual excesses, but this view is now generally given up. Celibacy does not appear to favour its development; the ratio, according to Dr. Lever’s analysis, is: single women, 5-83 per cent.; widows, 7'5 per cent.; and married females, S6-6 per cent. This is found to be identical wdth the relative frequency of other uterine affections in their respective classes. The increased activity of the uterus and its frequent changes of nutrition, occasioned by multiple parturitions, seem to exercise a definite influence on the production of cancer, for Mr. Sibley’s and Dr. Tanner’s statistics both show air excess above the average in the number of children borne by women after- wards the subjects of uterine cancer. In the one set of cases this increase amounted to thirty per cent, over the average fruitfulness of all marriages, and in the other set the families averaged two and a half children more than usual. As a rule, the cervix or os uteri is the part first affected, a