411 ENTOZOA. animal matter. The theory of their formation agrees with the mode of explanation which suggests itself for other concentric cor- puscles, and is confirmed by what we occasionally see in diseases. Thus in a case of a large cyst in the kidney, containing within an inner sac of false membrane a large black coagulmn of blood, we found concentric corpuscles in the false membrane, of exactly the same character as those observed in the brain. Here, too, it seemed reasonable to assume the primary deposition of fibrine, and the precipitation within its lamime of the phosphate of lime. It is not impossible that phlebolithes may in some instances be the residuary traces of former phlebitis. Dr. Lee observes,* that in the spermatic and hypogastric veins of females advanced in life, calcareous concretions and disorganizations of various kinds have frequently been observed, which must have been the consequence of attacks of acute inflammation at remote periods. ENTOZOA. Before quitting the pathology of the veins, we have to allude to the presence of entozoa, and of gaseous contents within them. Of the former, instances are recorded by various of the older authors, from l’liny the Elder downwards. This writer states, in his “ His- toria Naturalis,” that animals form in the blood of man, and destroy his body. An observation of parasitic animals in the blood is recorded by Dr. Bushman ; f but it is liable to objections which tend to invalidate the conclusions arrived at. The observation of the presence ot distoma hepaticum in the trunk of the vena portie in a man aged forty-nine, by Duval, \ is more valuable and trust- worthy. Andral § recounts an instance of hydatids found in the venous system. They occurred in the pulmonary veins of a man aged fifty-five, and twenty-three occupied the small ramifications shortly before their transition into the capillary network. They varied in size from a pea to a nut, and were symmetrically dis- tributed through both lungs. They had all the characters of acephalo-cysts. A similar observation was made by Wunderlich. Of late years the distoma hiematobium has been observed in the blood in cases of the endemic haematuria met with at the Cape and in other parts of Africa ; and a species of filaria has also been found in India, producing the disease called chyluria. AIR IN THE -VEINS. The entrance of air into tho veins is one of the most formid- able occuiTences complicating operations about the neck that the * Medioo-Chirurpeal Transactions,” vol. xvi. p. 418 Ve,na „f\HBo^ L„ndon.ei8"3Whi°h WHe “ in Blood ***** from the i “Gaz"tte Mddiculede Paris,” 1812, No. 49. I llageadie : “Journal de Physiologie,” vol. iii. p. 69.