4o6 DILATATION OF TUE BBOKCHI. • “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1SG2, vol. xiii. p. 2S. commonly results from chronic inflammation, and increased! pressure from habitual coughing. The other conditions already mentioned are usually present when the dilatation is extreme. Corrigan, who first drew attention to this point, suggested that the contracting pulmonary tissue would draw aside the walls of the bronchial tubes, and thus enlarge them. It is not quite easy to see I how this should be, but it is certain that the contraction of the lung “tends to produce a vacuum,” that is to say, diminishes the: resistance to atmospheric pressure. This will then act externally, so as to produce falling in of the chest walls, and internally on the respiratory surface, so as to produce dilatation ot all the air cavities.. The conditions are thus the same as lead to emphysema, and will i be further considered under that head. Dr. Wilkes states that the dilatation of the tubes occurs usually in children, that of the air: vesicles or emphysema in adults.* Other conditions favouring • dilatation in the same way are unequal distribution of pneumatic pressure from collapse, or airlessness of one portion of the lung, . and impaired movement from pleuritic adhesions, or other impedi- ments. Tubercle and Scrofulous Products.—Tubercle is sometimes met. with in the main bronchi, accompanying the same affection of the : larynx or trachea in cases of general miliary tuberculosis. There I are then miliary granulations upon the mucous surface. In the smaller tubes the growth appears to be situated rather in the walls. In chronic phthisis also, when tubercles are foimed in the lung, they frequently occur in the walls of bronchial tubes, forming: what has been called by Virchow peribronchitis tuberculosa, ofl which we shall speak again. Granulations may also sometimes : be seen on the mucous surface, accompanied by ulcerations, and, in some casqs, by yellow pasty matter. The latter is, how- ever, believed by Virchow and others to be unconnected wim : tubercle, and to be the product of “scrofulous” bronchitis. We shall return to this subject in speaking of tubercle in the ^It seems clear that ulceration and destruction of the bronchial wall may result from the formation of tubercle, and that this may be one mode of origin of vomicee. Calcareous concretions derived from obsolete scrofulous or tuqer- cular processes, are sometimes met with in the bronchi. >' ha is called “ Bronchial Phthisis,” f.e., caseous or tubercular soften- ing of the bronchial glands in children, has been attributed to - scrofulous or tubercular disease of the bronchi ; but in most cases there is no proof of this. . , , . , * _ Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies of the most varied kind may qe found in the bronchial tubes. We need not speak of objects aeci- • dentally introduced into the air tubes which will, as we have s.n . by preference fall into the right bronchus, lood, whether