27 OILY MATTER IN THE BLOOD. EXTRACTIVE MATTERS. Chemistry has as yet ascertained too little respecting these substances, even in the healthy condition, to make any conclusion possible regarding their variations in disease. Simon’s division into water extract, proof spirit extract, and alcohol extract is of no avail for physiology or pathology. As his eminent namesake remarks, what we want is a division of these matters according to the organs or systems of organs that produce them. Still the recog- nition of the existence of such matters in the blood is important, as showing us the actual presence of principles that are effete, or tending to become so in this fluid, and reminding us how often ill- health and malaise may depend on the formation of unnatural products of this kind, which come at length to he generated by an almost habitual vice of the system. According to Lehmann’s estimate, the quantity of extractive matter in healthy blood is 0-25 to 0'42 per 100. Nasse found a larger proportion in the blood of children and of young animals than in that of adults. Arterial blood, according to Lehmann, contains more than venous blood in the proportion of 5-374 parts to 3-617. Portal vein blood of horses, five to ten hours after food, contained on an average 7 "422 parts; twenty-four hours after food the quantity amounted to 10 ; but it was always less than that existing in hepatic vein blood, which averaged above 18. The existence of a larger quantity of extractive matter in arterial than in venous blood, may perhaps be accounted for by the increased oxydation of some of the organic matters which takes place in and after the passage of the blood through the lungs. The large amount in the blood of young growing creatures is in correspondence with the greater activity of their circulation and their nutritive processes generally. The excess in the hepatic vein above the portal blood indicates that an absorption of matter from the hepatic cells into the current traversing the lobules takes place. Liebig has particularly desciibed three substances which appear to belong to the class of extractive matter, creatin, creatinin, and inosfnic acid; the two former seem to be of the nature of alkaloids, the latter com- bines with bases as an acid. They are all nitrogenized sub- stances, and are found in the watery extract of muscle; the two former are present in the urine, and have been detected in the hlood, though in very minute quantity. Creatin, Lehmann states, is analogous to thein, an alkaloid, which in some trials has produced very severe nervous symptoms, even when taken in small doses. May slight chemical changes in creatin or the allied substances render them capable of producing any similar pheno- mena P OILY MATTER IN THE BLOOD. The quantity of oil existing in the blood cannot be estimated