160 PAPILLARY GROWTHS, OR PAPILLOMATA. and other discharges, the surface is commonly observed to be lobulated or papillar, the interior marked by a vertical striation, while some vascular ramifications extend up into each papilla. The structure of these is beautifully figured by M. Lebert. The surface of each papilla, as shown in his plates, is formed by a layer of closely imbricated epithelial scales; while the deeper parts consist of either less flattened cells, or, according to our own observation, of nuclei, lying close together in a granulous and amorphous blastema. This interior nucleated granulous tissue, we believe, is continued downward to the base of the growth, and encroaches on the corium of the skin; for we have never been able to observe any clear demarcation between the vascular loops and the surrounding cell formation. Almost the very same description applies to those tumours which are most common on the lips, and whose cancerous nature one has often too much reason to suspect. These attain a much larger size, and are more manifestly vascular than the preceding, and their papillae are more branched and grouped together, so that the surface resembles somewhat that of a cauliflower. We believe it is not always possible to say, from the structural characters of these growths, whether or not they are malignant, or whether, if removed, they will return again. In fact they pass by insensible gradations into Fig. 28. A (a) Papillary prominence of epithelial growth. (b) Epithelial tumour from lip. (From Lebert.) the malignant form of epithelial growth, which wo shall afterwards describe as epithelioma. Horns are epidermic productions, winch are occasionally formed upon the head, the forehead, or some other part of the body. They originate in the sebaceous follicles, whose epithelium, thrown off in unnatural and excessive quantities, ana mixed with the fatty secretion, forms a conical mass, which pro- trudes from the orifice in the skin, and is pushed onwards com