736 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE 1‘ROSTATE GLAND. in consequence of its vesical orifice being raised, describes a curve whose convexity is downward. The pressure on the rectum causes flattening of that channel, and more or less uneasiness in it, and may, perhaps, occasion hsemorrhoids, or prolapsus ani, in the same way it irritates the vesicular seminales, and induces thicken- ing of their walls ; pains felt in the parts to which the sacral nerves are distributed may be dependent on direct contact of these nerves with the enlarged gland, or on a reflected stimulus con- veyed to their place of origin along the compressed vesical and hsemorrhoidal filaments. . , The most important result, however, of the enlargement, is tae obstacle which it causes to the complete evacuation of the bladder. This depends partly on the narrowing of the urethra, and partly on the circumstance that a certain quantity of urine is always contained in the lower part of the bladder, below the elevated orifice of the urethra. In some cases the urethra, instead of being narrowed by compression, so as to appear like a slit on a trans- verse section, is considerably dilated, so that the prostatic sinus • may contain two or three ounces of urine. An enlarged prostate is often indurated, so that by older writers it has been called. scirrhus The retained urine decomposing, causes irritation and inflammation of the bladder, with all its results, such as we have already described. Moreover, as Mr. Coulson describes it, the enlarged middle lobe becoming broader, and raising up a train- • verse fold of mucous membrane, which passes off on each side to the lateral lobes, constitutes a kind of valve, which is pushed. before the urine in every attempt that is made to void it, and closes up the opening till the cavity ^he,^1^der^s-Te^“?l1. distended; then the anterior part of the bladder being pushed. forward, and the tumour being drawn back m consequence ti- the membrane of the posterior part of the bladder being put on the stretch, the valve is open, so that a certain quantity of water is allowed to escape, but the bladder is not completely enTheeenlargement in these cases of hypertrophied prostate is due mainly to an increase in the connective and plain muscular tissue forming the bulk of the gland. With this the ciypts of the glandular structure may be also ddated. In development of the fibro-muscular tissues takes the form ol separate pea-like tumours imbedded m the substance of the gla. . and analogous in all respects to the fibro-muscular masses forming. the “fibroid tumours ” of the uterus. Acute inflammation may attack the prostate, commonly as the result of extension of gonorrhoeal inflammation ; it may go on to, suppuration, or cause chronic enlargement, or an irntable condi tion of the gland, with increase of its secretion When abscess occurs, there may be one or several; a single one large enou contain half a pint of matter, or small and numerous foci, .o tha the gland appears riddled with holes. The abscess may 1L