708 INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. stages of softening, suppuration, and disintegration. As the morbid action advances outwards, the peritoneum at last may become involved, and general inflammation of this membrane may be set up. Ulceration, attended or not with suppuration, some- times extends deeply and gradually, and at last perforates the walls, when extravasation of urine takes place, if not prevented by inflammatory exudation, and adhesion of adjacent parts. The further progress of ulceration sometimes forms a communication with the cavities of the adherent viscera; in this way the walls of the rectum, the colon, and the ileum, have been perforated, and their contents have made their way into the cavity of the bladder. Chronic or subacute inflammation of the bladder is very com- monly an attendant upon paraplegia, and proves the immediate cause of death. The inflammation is set up, we conceive, in the same way as that of the eye is when the fifth pair of nerves has been divided, and results from loss of the nutrient power of the tissues, and consequent stagnation of blood in toneless vessels. At the same time, the urine rendered alkaline by the decomposing influence of the vesical mucus upon the urea, reacts, no doubt, upon the inflamed membrane as a further cause of irritation. The urine is turbid with quantities of muco-pus and detached epi- thelium, contains often albumen, sometimes blood, and always prisms of the triple phosphate. The urine under these ciicum- stances always contains bacteria or vibriones, like those seen in decomposing urine out of the body. It has been thought that these must be introduced into the bladder from without by the process of catheterization, which is often required in such cases. Nevertheless, bacteria have been seen in the urine when it was quite certain no catheter had been used. The coats of the bladder undergo similar changes to those above mentioned, but of a marked asthenic character. The mucous membrane is congested, and thickened and altered by fibrinous exudation, or purulent, or sanious ; it is incrusted by a phosphatic deposit, and in parts may be gangrenous. The muscular coat is also more or less affected, and the submucous tissue. _ _ Croupous or Diphtheritic Cystitis.—Rokitansky describes exudative processes of a croupy kind, as not very unfrequent in the biadder, they occur in the course of exanthematic diseases, in pyaemia and typhus. The exudation does not affect generally a large surface, but is limited “ to round spots or striae.” The mucous membrane beneath the exudation is more or less injected, tumefied, and indurated, or in processes of lower character is softened and con- verted into a pulpy, gelatinous, sanious, or purulent mass, or even becomes gangrenous. . Some false membranes discharged from the bladder have n connection with croupous or diphtheritic processes, but seem to be due to simple exfoliation of the mucous membrane ; which appears to occur from inflammation, or from simple retention of urine, as for instance in the puerperal state. The cast consists of the who e