188 GROWTH AND DEGENERATIONS OF CANCER. Whether the actual transport of cells is necessary, or whether some smaller germs or even some fluid substance may convey the stimulus which leads to production of cancerous structure, is at present quite undetermined. GROWTH AND DEGENERATIONS OF CANCER. The growth of a cancerous tumour will he more rapid, in proportion as its structure is mainly composed of cells, and contains but little fibre, and is also so situated that it has room to expand freely. Encephaloid, in which cell-structure always predominates, is notoriously of most rapid growth, but even its progress is comparatively slow while it is confined within unyielding walls, as in the globe of the eye. Laennec supposen that all cancers were originally hard, and that in the process of growth they gradually became softer. This is not so ; cancers may be quite soft at their commencement; but still they do generally appear to diminish in consistence as they advance in age. .Tumouis, however, of the same date may differ very greatly in consistence. Inflammation may affect cancerous tumours; it is commonly excited by their exposure to the air after they have made their way through the covering parts. It powerfully accelerates soften- ing and decay. Suppuration may take place as the result of inflammation, but the pus is an ill-formed sanious product, mino-led with detritus. Cancerous formations sometimes mortify spontaneously, sometimes in consequence of inflammation ; m the first case a cure has been known to take place, and. to attain this artificially is the object of various escharotic applications. It is evident that it is only in instances of cancer whose powers of vegetation are feeble and sluggish that such a proceeding can be successful. There are other changes which cancer occasionally undergoes, and which, it has sometimes been thought, may result in a cure. One is fatty degeneration. It is this change, in an early stage, which constitutes Carcinoma retiadare; it occurs wit.x formation of granule cells, or independently of them. J attain such a degree as to cause liquefaction and the formation of a cavity. The other change is a shrinking and contraction, a kind of drying up of the cancerous growth, sometimes attended witd deposition of calcareous matter, analogous to the cretification o tubercle. These atrophic processes produce the aPPe^mce o “ umbilication ” in mammary and hepatic cancers, and the well known retraction of the nipple in the former. Another d^nera- tion is the so-called “ colloid metamorphosis, m wh ch the structure becomes homogeneous, translucent, and This, which affects specially encephaloid, constitutes a transition t colloid cancer, properly so called. . . •>• , Primary and Secondary Growths.—The term primary PP to cancerous growths, originating for the fii»t tune in