MYELITIS. 301 spifle was examined seventeen hours after death. The vessels on : the surface of the cord were a good deal congested. An incision ■ was made above the front of the medulla, commencing at the part corresponding to the third cervical vertebra, and terminating at the 1 last dorsal; two small clots of blood, amounting together to about a drachm, were found in the interior of the medulla, occupying about an inch and a-half in extent, and situated between the origins of the second and third pairs of dorsal nerves. The sub- »stance of the cord around the clots was somewhat soft; the medulla i was more or less infiltrated and stained with blood from the site of the clots upwards as high as the third cervical vertebra, and downwards as low as the last dorsal.” No microscopic examination of the parts appears to have been : made ; future observation must determine whether atheromatous, or other degeneration of the arteries, or previous derangement in the nutrition of the adjoining tissues, is the causa proxima of s spinal, as it so frequently is of cerebral, haemorrhage. A case is reported by Dr. Ogle,* in which haemorrhage took place at two points, in the dorsal region and in the medulla oblongata. The ' subdivisions of the vertebral arteries are described as atheroma- : tons. MYELITIS. • of tlle termination of myelitis, or inflammation of the cord, m the first stage, like those of encephalitis, are scarcely ever met ■ with; it becomes the question whether, owing to the peculiarity of the nervous structures, the first onset of inflammatory action is not ' at once accompanied by those changes, which in other tissues are 10<TL UP°n as ^e. sec°ndary products of inflammation. ' tv P^0(^uet of inflammatory action most commonly discovered jn the spinal cord is ramollissement, a condition which, however, hhe its analogue in the brain, is equally attributable to other ‘ PnthOiOgieal states, each of which may be recognised by the naked we, and the aid of the microscope, the degree of softening varies irom a slight diminution of consistency, as compared with sur- ouih mg parts, to a state of pulpy diffluence ; the extent of cord anected differs equally. In paralysis we very frequently meet with o other trace of disease but a trifling softening in the lumbar •nt ’ or cervical regions, manifestly the result of a slow inflain- aiatory process. _ Tho same difficulty occurs here which we met Htn m the brain, of distinguishing betweon inflammatory and non inflammatory softening. The colour of the softened portions mernli or w4hlto> and, th"ugh granule cells or glo~ 2 ar9 frequently met with, these must not be taken as a ertaui evidence of inflammatory action. • “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1853. vol. iy, p 13.