TIIE LAEYNX. •lb 7 ,vhat looks like fibrin ; and lie regards it as uncertain whether it is ilways (in this part) composed, as Wagner supposes, of altered cells, fhe .secretion resembles that of a serous membrane in tenacity, adhesiveness, and coagulability. It is deposited in patches, which nay gradually coalesce, and thus form rings or sheets of greater or less extent; they send off small prolongations into the follicles . scattered over the mucous membrane, by which they are secured in heir place until a suppurative process, underneath, loosens them, and allows them to be thrown off, if the patient retains strength to io so. There rarely are any abrasions of the mucous membrane of he trachea. If there is more than usual difficulty in removing the false membrane from the larynx, this depends, as Dr. West remarks, upon the more extensive alterations which this part of the air tube :.ias undergone. It is generally red and swollen, especially about .he edges of the rima glottidis, the arytenoid cartilages, and the p-penings of the sacculus laryngis. It is in the former that we occa- ionally find small aphthous ulcerations. The diseases with which croupy inflammation is most frequently 'omplicated are bronchitis and pneumonia; though we very com- lonly meet with no other symptoms of morbid action than those ound in the part affected; nor is there any doubt that these may e so slight as altogether to escape observation, in the post-mortem examination. We must here, as elsewhere, be careful not to mis- take the pulmonic congestion, resulting from the suffocative influ- nce of the malady, with inflammatory action, i Diphtheritic Inflammation of the Larynx.—This affection is not lery common, and is usually caused by the extension of the ; iphtheritic process from the pharynx, fauces, or mouth. Still, in iome epidemics of diphtheria, it is not rare, as was first clearly •escribed by Bretonneau of Tours.* According to his observations, ie exudation occurred simultaneously in the pharynx and air •assages in fifty cases, while in one only the former was unaffected. :x or seven times he found that the false membrane extended to "ie smallest bronchi, and in one-third of the entire number it iached beyond the main division of the bronchi; in all the rest it ■rminated at different points of the trachea. I The distinction from croupous inflammation is usually clear ana- 'mically, though in particular cases it may be impossible to dis- Jiguish them clinically. The diphtheritic false membrane cannot -3 separated from the mucous surface without removing more or •ss of the epithelium, or even some of the deeper structures ; bein <>■ - fact, partly composed of altered and necrotic tissue. The de- ructive process may extend to the submucous tissue or even to the •uscles. uncfra^°rt Larynx'—Tho flowing kinds of ulcers are (1) Catarrhal ulcers. These are either produced by necrosis of the 32.Dl4n.fia827nati0nS Sl,l!ciale3 du Tissu mu(lueux,” &c., par P. Bretonneau,