f TUBERCLE OE THE UTERUS. 765 the tissue of the uterus itself; hat, together with this, forming a structure resembling the pancreas, was a certain amount of cell- growth, grouped in small masses, and suggesting glandular tissue. Many irregular cysts communicated freely in all directions, giving rise to the large cavity already mentioned, which contained upwards of four pints of fluid, and these cysts appeared to have been formed by the accumulation of fluid in the spaces of the loose fibroid structure. The diagnosis of these rare growths is necessarily beset with the greatest difficulty, the chief points of diagnostic importance being the slow growth of the tumour. When a preliminary incision has once been made through the abdominal wall, the dark colour of the presenting tumour, and the thin, often blood-stained, fluid escaping through the trocar, instead of the usual viscid ovarian fluid, are mentioned by Spencer Wells as additional evidence of the supposed ovarian cyst being really uterine. True hydatid tumour of the uterus is extremely rare, although occasionally small hydatid cysts with their characteristic structure have passed per vaginam from an intra-abdominal growth. Hydro-metra and hcemato-metra, or collections of fluid or blood within the dilated uterus, are now and then met with, associated with some form of occlusion of the uterine mouth, or with the graver varieties of flexion; but such cases would be readily dis- tinguished from fibro-cystic tumours. TUBERCLE OP THE UTERUS. Tubercular disease in the uterus affects chiefly the lining mem- brane, where we find the whole mucous surface covered with a layer of soft cheesy, or white putty-like material, sometimes almost puriform, and even in sufficient quantity moderately to distend the uterine cavity. In this state it is often very difficult to demonstrate the presence of tubercles or of anything beyond degeneratiye inflam- mation of the mucous membrane; and in the cases which have fallen under the observation of the editor no tubercles were seen in the uterus, though in some cases present on the serous surface. In other cases, however, they may be present on the mucous mem- brane, either before the degenerative process has gone so far, or under the layer of degenerated caseous material. In early stages of the disease the surface is described as covered with grey miliary tubercles. Under the caseous mass, in advanced cases, the uterine substance is found infiltrated and partially destroyed. Other parts of the organ show hypertrophy, whether fibrous or muscular we cannot say, but probably the former. The disease especially affects the fundus, and is almost always bounded by the os internum. Destruction of the wall and perforation into the peritoneum may occur, but are rare. y The uterine disease is most usually associated with a similar