t 11 On Tetanus,” p. 325. CHAPTER X\H. THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. A few cases are on record in which the ganglia of the sympathetic - system were found more or less deranged and altered in structure. I It is probable that a series of nervous centres, like that presented iin the sympathetic, are much more frequently diseased than we l have it as yet in our power to demonstrate. We can scarcely con- - ceive that the so-called functional derangement of the heart, for 1 instance, can continue as it does, for a series of years, and the 1 perves controlling its action not be or become organically altered ; 1 m _ saipe way, long-standing derangement in the nutritive and * secretive functions of the abdominal viscera may be assumed to i give rise to material changes in the cceliac and semilunar ganglia, i as the numerous diseases of the generative organs can scarcely -exist without a similar influence being exerted upon the spermatic plexus. Ihe anatomical disposition, as well as the physiological 3manifestation of the range of action of the sympathetic, justify 1 ?ur )e^le‘ *P 1*s great and powerful agency in disease ; the actual demonstration of the fact is, however, yet reserved for future •U<* r a-618' ® . at * repeatedly examined the nerves of the viscera um different diseases without discovering any lesions. With the exception of a single case, he has found the semilunar ganglion intact in cancers of the stomach. In a case of periodic mania he found this ganglion of the size of a small nut, with a cartilaginous centre. ° Several authors have reported cases in which one or more of the ganglia of the sympathetic were found congested and inflamed in tetanus. Swan t has noted this condition in each of three cases in which he made a post-mortem examination of tetanic indi- viduals. That this, however, is not a uniform lesion, and not noted because overlooked, or not attended to, is proved by the numerous cases of traumatic tetanus recently minutely examined More or less vascularity of the sympathetic ganglia after death is * “ Anatomie G™6rale,” i. 225.