NEW Gltownis OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 424 Suft, or Medullary Lymphoma—Lymphosarcoma.—A good type of this form of tumour is seen in the soft rapidly-growing tumours of the mediastinum. These originate usually in the bronchial glands, though in some cases the starting point has been thought to be the thymus. In an early stage they appear like simple enlargements of the glands, but as they increase, the growth extends to the sur- ; rounding tissue by a species of infiltration. In this way not only the whole of the mediastinal connective tissue, but adjacent por- tions of the pleurae, pericardium, and the thoracic walls will be involved in a lymphatic new growth, and very large masses are thus produced. In other cases the lung tissue is invaded, or even the heart, and the large veins, are penetrated by the new growth. These tumours possess a structure closely resembling that of a lym- i phatic gland, namely, a great abundance of lymphoid cells enclosed in a finely-reticulated stroma. The latter sometimes assumes an alveolar structure like that of carcinoma, and, in fact, such tumours : resemble cancer in everything but the “ epithelial’’character of the cells. They make up the greater part of what has been described as intra-thoracic cancer, corresponding precisely in their naked eye characters to what was formerly taken as typical medul- lary cancer, or encephaloid. These tumours have accordingly most of what are called malig- nant properties ; but they rarely give rise to secondary growths in distant parts, and when such growths occur simultaneously in other organs, such as the spleen, this must, in some cases, be regarded as the hyperplasia of similar tissue rather than as a secondary production. Soft lymphomata of the same kind and magnitude as those occurring in the mediastinum are less frequently developed in other glands, except in the cervical glands ; these sometimes give origin to large tumours, which may infiltrate the neighbouring.' parts, and enter the thorax. The retroperitoneal glands of the: abdomen are also sometimes the starting-point of large lympho- -: sarcomata. In most of the other glands, tumours if formed are of the hard kind. Hard Lymphoma.—Although such a character as hardness cannot' of course be generally regarded as of much importance, it serves in the present instance to distinguish from the medullary, highly in- fective, and malignant forms just described, others in some respects ■ similar, which do not infiltrate the neighbouring parts, or possess a in general such malignant properties. They are described bv Yirchow as showing proliferation of the septa, and production of cells from all parts of the gland, with much increase of connective tissue ; but it is doubtful whether they can really be distinguished from hypertrophy, at least in the early stages. Later on the con- nective-tissue increase causes the cells to become fewer, and there is usually thickening of the capsule. These tumours occur especi- ally in the neck and axilla; they never attain any great size, . being seldom larger than a plum or an egg.