3 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. lungs; the natural tendency of this is to soften, break down, and be expectorated, together with the involved tissue, while, as fresh deposits take place, more and more of the organ is destroyed ; but, before this can happen, inflammation is set up to such an extent, in the surrounding tissue, that life is cut short, not by the effects ■ of the tubercular destruction directly, hut by the intercurrent inflammation. The unnatural stimuli, provoking the succession of morbid s actions, are often termed the Exciting causes of a disease ; they : may be adequate, when powerful of themselves to produce their effect, or may need the assistance of other causes, generally of a i debilitating nature, which are called Predisposing. But the question now occurs, whether all diseases are of the 1 kind above mentioned, whether all can be regarded as the natural i results of certain foreign injurious influences operating on the : system. To this the answer, in the present state of pathology, imust be, I think, Certainly not. There are very many cases where 'we cannot point out any exciting cause of the existing malady, ’where it seems to have originated spontaneously, so far as we are able to judge. Of this kind are many instances of decay and dege- neration of tissues, very many of mal-assimilation, or mal-secre- tion, hereditary diseases, and some congenital mal-formations. lit may be that, as we advance in knowledge, we shall be able to unclude more and more of the latter class under the former ; that ias we obtain more acquaintance with the imponderable influences which are constantly in operation, we shall be able to refer to mem as the causes of changes which now appear spontaneous, but from this we are far at present, and must thoroughly recognize the two classes of disease which we have just described. These classes, however, are not (and natural groups never are) rigorously defined; •there are numerous instances of an intermediate kind, such as those where a slight exciting cause calls into action an inherited predisposition. "We must also notice another great division of diseases into two classes, viz., the Organic and Functional. Of the existence of the latter many of the best pathologists greatlv doubt, that is to say, whether it be possible for the mechanism of an organ to be perfectly uninjured, at the time that its function is ’wrongly performed. Speaking in the strictest sense, and remem- bering the advances which have been made in detecting morbid alterations formerly unknown, as well as the amount of progress =which we may yet look to make, it must certainly be allowed that it is quite possible that the division above mentioned is not founded in reality, and that all diseases are attended with organic change ;But, when this is conceded, it remains still perfectly clear that there are not a few diseases, and some very severe, in which no organic alteration whatever can be detected, and it seems further a pomt of considerable practical importance that the student should be fully aware of this and alive to it. What are called idiosyn- crasies aro unusual peculiarities of an individual system, in con-