480 DISTRIBUTION OF PNEUMONIA. would almost destroy the validity of the law altogether; for ! though they yield the preponderance to the lower lobes, they seem to show a much greater proclivity in the upper than they are commonly supposed to possess; in eighty-eight cases of pneumonia, he found it limited to the lower lobes in forty- seven ; in thirty the upper lobes, and in eleven the entire organ was inflamed. The general tendency of pneumonia is to spread from below I upwards, and for this reason we commonly meet with the several stages in the same lung; the base to a greater or less extent pre- senting the grey hepatization—red hepatization affecting the 1 adjoining portion next above the former—while the upper lobe I offers more or less pneumonic congestion. The smaller bronchi of | the affected part are not, as has been stated by several authors, I invariably affected at the same time; we often see them meander- h ing, as white rivulets, through the inflammatory mass; and they §j occasionally appear to possess a repellent power, and to form a I line of demarcation between two parts that are unequally affected. I A cui’ious exception is mentioned by Bokitansky, in which, owing i to bygone pleuritic effusion, the base of the right lung had not | recovered its pristine elasticity, and where the entire lung was in a state of red hepatization, with the exception of the apex, the anterior margin, and the base, which latter is scarcely ever found. exempt. It "is equally exceptional to find pneumonia limited to _ the central portion of the lungs, though such cases undoubtedly : occur ; hence one of the most ordinary complications of the disease is with pleurisy; for which reason some authors prefer the com- • pound term pleuro-pneumonia, to the separate names pleuritisf and pneumonia. According to the unanimous testimony of all observers, the right": lung is more frequently affected than the left, while double pneu--i monia is less often met with than either; the analysis of 210 j cases of pneumonia by Andral* yielded the following results The right lung alone was the seat in 121 The left in Both together in ... . 25 The seat undetermined in Total 210 The relation is somewhat, though not essentially, altered by the- larger numbers collected by Sir John Forbes; he finds that m. 1,131 cases— The right lung was affected in The left in And both together in . . . 502 333 236 Total 1.131 * “ Clinique Medicate/' vol. iii. P- 4«0.