HYPERTROPHY' AND ATROPHY OP THE UTERUS. 751 • tho category of single-horned uteri.* When the two halves . coalesce, the division which constitutes the malformation may vary considerably in amount; only a slight depression may be visible at : the fundus in one case, so that the organ scarcely deviates from its : normal condition ; in another, the fissure extends so far down as to i justify the appellation of double uterus, ordinarily bestowed upon tho i anomaly. An excellent instance of this is preserved in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital (No. 101 of Dr. Lee’s preparations). This ! preparation also illustrates what takes place after impregnation; vwhile the ovum is received into one horn, which becomes duly developed with the growth of the foetus, the other only sympathizes ' with it so far as to form a deciduous membrane, and thus to prevent t the occurrence of superfoetation, but otherwise undergoes but trifling jalteration or increase. Though impregnation and parturition are i not necessarily fatal, these malformations seriously endanger the 1 life of the patient—owing, as Rokitansky observes, partly to the 'want of the necessary dimensions of the part that undertakes the /functions of the entire organ, partly to the obstacle opposed to :the uniform development of the impregnated uterine half by the ummpregnated half. These circumstances favour laceration of the uterine parietes. Rokitansky also shows that the divergence 1 of the cornua from the axis of the body causes an impediment in :the act of parturition, while the expulsive power of the uterus is much reduced, by the absence, in the case of the uteris bicornis, of •■a true fundus. A highly interesting case of malformation of the uterus has been pput on record by Mr. Croft, in the “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xix. IThe subject of the deformity lived only four days, and was brought ;t j Mr. Croft for imperforate anus, the perinoeum showing no indica- tion of any anal aperture. After death a largely distended uterus vwas found bulging up from the pelvis, surmounted by two eg<*- Ilike cornua. The cavity was full of viscid fluid—a mixture of unne •and mucus—both bladder and rectum communicating with it by iminute apertures. Descending from the partition between the lihorns of the uterus was a septum, complete save for a small oval ; foramen in the lower portion. A more rare condition than those imperfect tendencies to single or double-horned uterus is an absence of the uterine orifice, form- ing one of the causes of retention of menstrual fluid after puberty HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. Hypertrophy and atrophy of the uterus are, in part, normal at the periods of puberty and involution; much tact is necessary to * For more detailed accounts, and many interesting examples of those malformations of the uterus the reader is referred to t?ie valuable wm k of KSssmau? Wu°4^?18m ’ Verkummerung und Verdopplung der GebUrm”.’