209 THE VEGETABLE PARASITES OF THE HITMAN BODY. mg to discuss tlie question fully, mg may enumerate a few of the facts which lend support to some such view. Certain fatal diseases affecting lower organisms, as flies and silkworms, have been shown to be due to infection by means of fungi. The parasitic silkworm disease has been studied with especial care, and is of immense economic importance. Similar parasitic affections have been observed in plants. A still more striking instance is that of the disease of sheep, known as “ The Blood,”—a disease closely con- nected with malignant pustule or charbon which affects men. This disease has been shown to be accompanied by the rapid development in the blood of minute organisms, called by their discoverer, Davaine, bacteridia. They are very small filaments which show no spontaneous movement, and disappear with com- mencing putrefaction, a fact which distinguishes them from the infusoria, which they somewhat resemble. A single drop of blood containing these organisms is sufficient to convey the affection. The same bodies have, moreover, been found in the blood of the Jiuman subject affected with malignant pustule. Though these organisms have been described as fungi or even referred to a particular genus (Leptothrix), it seems that they ought more properly to be placed in a group which from a natural history pornt of view is different, viz., that of the monads or Bactena ; forms possessing only the lowest degree of organization, ' f d standing on the confines of animal and vegetable life. The i terminology of these organisms is unfortunately far from fixed ! ?nd we h;lvc a perplexing variety of terms, such as vibrio bac- ■ tenum, micrococcus, microzyme, &c. The common rod-like bodies ■ seen m putrefying animal fluids (bacterium termo) are the most familiar examples. These are the organic forms which always accompany the special decomposition of albuminous substances ailed putrefaction; just as the common Torula accompanies the Vinous fermentation of saccharine substances, and may equally be —^ CLJLIU. nitty tJUU.il ogarded as the cause of the chemical changes. Of late vears I„a]7<?[ls fo7Tns of thes« bacteria (as with Cohn we may genetically a1?) been found m various morbid products and infec- - fluids, ihus we have micrococcus vaccinse, or the bacterium otvaccme lymph (Cohn); micrococcus septicus (Klebs) from septic iff, ar?matl0.ns, bacillus anthracis (Cohn) from malignant pustule l tiie bacteridium of Davame), &c. Others, called “ vibnones ” -have been found by Rindfleisch in pyaimic abscesses. ’ As an example of these observations, we may refer to the series meaiches inade by Dr. Burdon Sanderson, or under his direction on tiie transference to animals, and from one animal to another of a poison derived from pymrnic inflammations; this Joison pro nm' n^’ inJec^0(i mto the blood or connective tissues of animals, a disease which sometimes resembles pymmiiinth, SUbje!Co (wlth m°tastatic abscesses and a typhoid statoD sometimes is like a most intense and rapid blood-poisonim- still more remarkable is it that the same poison maygiyeTse,’ under