(337 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OP THE LIVER. tumours varies in different cases; they may be solitary or .very numerous; primary cancers are usually few, secondary may amount to some hundreds. In rare cases minute tumours are distributed so generally through the organ as to produce the effect of an infiltration. Dr. Walshe thinks they are most numerous when they occur consecutively to cancer of the stomach The scirrhous tumours have scarce any investments of cellular tissue, and adhere closely to the surrounding hepatic parenchyma • the encephaloid have a delicate cyst-like investment, though this does not seem to be constant, and they can be detached more readily. “Infiltrated encephaloid,” according to Kokitanskv always contains obliterated and obsolete blood-vessels and ducts which are gradually absorbed. The infiltration attacks larger or smaller segments of the viscus, it does not present distinct boun- daries, but insensibly passes into the normal parenchyma It rarely occurs without nodulated cancer.” The separate tumours often enclose strata of remaimng hepatic structure, a fact which 8®ems t° “ark » connection between the two forms; some de°ree of infiltration taking place in each; but in one, the growth simnlv pushes the parenchyma aside, in the other it spreads its germs everywhere among its elements. The structure of cancerous tumours presents nothing different from that of cancerous tumours m other parts, and is described under the general head of cancer (p. 1,2). Their degree of vascularity varies: some tumours show very little trace of blood-vessels, others are richly supplied, and are the seat also of interstitial effusions of blood; to such the term haematoid or fungus haematodes is appropriate. Black pigment is often scattered through the substance of the growths, and may be so abundant as to make them appear entirely black. These claim, of course, the appel- lation melanotic, but most, if not all such, are cases of sarcoma Cancerous tumours in most cases produce considerable en- largement of the liver, and the very largest fivers known are thSUHdlKy “ The kl'sest we have seen weighed more tiian lb lbs., but still larger are on record, the atrophy of the proper tissue which they occasion being more than compensated efpthf>fm0iUnt °f the.lr.own enlargement; in some rare cases, how- er, this does not take place, and the fiver, though containing many cancerous tumours, is smaller than natural. Masses of cancer which appear on the surface of the fiver sometimes excite adhesive inflammation of the investing serous membrane, and thus thfi 7b UDbted iby fail8G membrane t0 adjacent parts. Instead of this, they have been known to infect with their tainted fluids the parts in contact with them, and to cause secondary formations of bfilirnti11 thT’ ■?' eXtend mt° them> by the ordinary way of mhltratwn. Ascites, to some extent, is not (infrequently produced by the presence ot cancerous masses in the fiver : this nrobablv the tumours themselves, or by cancerous matter developing in