HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. 839 probably slower process in the caseous infiltration of portions of cancellous tissue j or else in tbe necrosis of detacbed masses of bone, which become enclosed in a cavity. If the cavity open into a joint, something not unlike a pulmonary vomica is produced. Blond granulations often sprout from the edges, and condensation of the surrounding tissue is often seen, bometimes new bone is pio- duced from the periosteum ; as we have repeatedly seen in so-called scrofulous caries of the vertebrae. Calcareous infiltration of the pus or cheesy matter may take place, forming chalky masses, easily dis- tinguished from bone. Suppuration of the periosteum is very often induced, and chronic abscesses formed, of which a familiar instance is the well-known psoas abscess, extending from caries of the vertebrae. Such abscesses, wholly or almost healed, are sometimes found after death, containing cheesy or putty-like matter, formerly regarded as necessarily tubercular. Connection of Caries with Tubercle— Some pathologists, as for instance Nelaton, have spoken of this disease unconditionally as tubercular. Grey miliary tubercle is found only in the very rarest instances. Yellow matter, formerly called crude tubercle, is found, but by no means constantly, and of course is not necessarily tubercular. Tubercles are not found in the neighbourhood; so that the positive connection with tubercle is slight. On the other hand, the disease is not unfrequently associated with tubercular disease of other parts. Billroth found tubercular or cheesy pro- ducts in other parts of the body, occurring in 54 per cent, of his cases of caries. Mr. Haward’s statistics (“ St. George’s Hospital Beports,” vol. iv.) give a very different result; out of 134 cases of chronic bone and joint-disease in children usually called scrofulous, he found only seventeen with other signs of scrofulous disease, and only nine with signs of actual tubercle ; while, out of eighty- five cases of children admitted in the hospital for various tuber- cular diseases only one had any bone disease. Mr. Holmes thinks the masses called crude tubercle in bone are of inflammatory origin, and that rare as tubercle in bone is generally supposed to be, it is in reality still rarer. The question is evidently the same as that respecting the origin of cheesy masses in the lung, the lymphatic glands, the kidney, and other parts. HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. It is doubtful whether true simple hypertrophy occurs, but enlargement of bones in all their dimensions is seen in rare cases as a sort of monstrous growth, without any obvious cause. Inequality of the sides of tho body, or of the parts of the hand or finger, results. Of course with this must be associated corresponding enlargement of the soft parts. Inflammation, both of the periosteum and of the substance causes overgrowth or hyper- ostosis, by which the bone is thickened without becoming necessarily