CHRONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. 823 siderable amount had existed, although the external signs of this phenomenon are not usually evident. When the interior of the synovial sac is examined, it will be found to present evidences of ha vine been the seat of chronic inflammation. Bunches of long organized fringes hang into the interior of the synovial sac; and many of these vascular fimbriae, which m the recent state are of an extremely red colour, surround the corona of the head of the humerus. We also notice rounded cartilaginous productions, appended by means of membranous threads attached to the interior of the various structures which compose the joint. ihe size and shape of these bodies are various. The long tendon of the biceps muscle is very commonly adherent to the superior extremity of the bicipital groove, while that portion of it which normally passes upwards, and takes its attachment to the uppei maigin o the glenoid cavity, is destroyed. The articular surface of the humerus is very much enlarged, and extends itseli over the greater and lesser tuberosities, and even over the highest part of the bicipital groove. The head, appears to be in a line with the shaft of the bone, instead of being directed upwards, inwards, and backwards. The cartilage is more or less completely removed, the bone in some parts eburnated, in others porous. Nodnles of bone, vegetations, as Mr. R. Adams terms them, are thrown out aiound the margin of the head. The glenoid cavity of the scapula becomes much enlarged, and losing its oval shape assumes a more circular form. This, however, depends much on the position which the head of the humerus occupies. The depth of the articu- lar cavity is increased by osseous productions thrown out around its margins; its encrusting cartilage is removed, and the surface in part is covered by porcellaneous deposit, in parts remains porous. The enlarged head of the humerus comes into immediate contact, in many cases, with the under surface of the coraco- acromial vault, causing absorption and wasting of the tendons of the supra-spinatus and biceps, and the upper part of the capsular ligament. The acromion process, the outer extremity of the clavicle, and the coracoid process, in most cases become enlarged, though their under surfaces are worn and eburnated by the friction and pressure of the head of the humerus. Occasionally, however, they are found atrophied, or altogether removed. It is a remark- able circumstance, particularly noticed by Mr. R. Adams,—from whose article, in the “ Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.,” we have taken the foregoing account,—that, in many cases the acromion process is traversed in the line of junction of its epiphysis, “ by a complete interruption of its continuity, as if fractured. This has been considered by several observers, as well as the destruction of the long tendon of the biceps, to be the result of accidental violence. Crifveilhier is quoted by Mr. R. Adams as describing the bones of the carpus, in a case of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the wrist- joint, to be so confounded together into an irregular mass that it was difficult to say which part each took in the construction of the