COMPLICATIONS OF PHTHISIS. 512 we have described, a process of obsolescence occurs which appears to consist in certain chemical changes in the tubercular matter, followed by certain secondary alterations in the surrounding tissues by which they are adapted to the requirements of the case these we find to exhibit two distinct kinds, which were formerly thought to depend upon a difference in the diathesis primarily giving rise to the disease They are characterized by a fibrous or a calcareous metamorphosis. In the former case we find the tubercle assuming a more dense and leathery character, of a semi-cartilagmous con- sistency drying or shrivelling up as it were, accompanied by a contraction of the superimposed tissue. If we examine theti^ne containing tubercle under the microscope, we find mixed up with the ordinary forms of tubercle a distinct connective-t.ssue iorma- tion exhibiting a fibrous striated appearance. In the latter, a conversion of the tubercular matter seems to be effected into a chalky substance, at first moist and soft, _ gradually, owin to absorption of the fluid constituents, becoming harder and drier, and at the same time, shrinking from its previous dimensions; thus at times, we find, to use Hasse’s words, “ that a considerable portion of the lung, as may be inferred from the size of the bronchial tubes leading- thither, becomes reduced to a hard shell, holdino- in its centre a chalky tubercle no bigger than a pea. The chemical characters of these formations have already been alluded to ; they consist of amorphous carbonate and phosphate of r a wiili nerhaps other combinations of the same base, and much fatty matter.1 Lebert has also repeatedly observed cholesterme in chalky^tubercles. The black pigment, which is at fames met with to considerable amount in tuberculized lungs, and still more in the bronchial glands, does not present any different feature* from that commonly found in the pulmonary parenchyma. It appears to consist of pure carbon, and may present a mere amor- nbrnis eranular form, imbedded in and scattered irregularly , yp i.i _ tiSo-ne or it is found inclosed in an epithelial cell. The amount of the deposit is greater in proportion to the ad™n9® ' SISS S a»B£ra£ “prelect'S bWk must be regarded as evidence of a cm’at^e ^ “ Lii* dofr that an are justified in assuming, as it appears Caiswell doe., m * 11 Elementary Forms of Disease,” art. “Tuborclc."