DILATATION OF THE BRONCHI. 455 It appears from Dr. West’s description that in children the fusi- form variety of bronchial dilatation is rarely, if ever found, while the cylindrical form is a common result of bronchitis. On one occa- - sion, however, he saw a case in which, in addition to a general cylindrical enlargement of the tubes, many of them presented a marked dilatation, about half an inch from their termination, the tube expanding into a cavity big enough to hold half a large nut. I The lining mucous membrane presented an extraordinary degree of : thickening. Condition of the Walls.—The walls of the dilated bronchial tubes i vary much as to the degree and manner in which they are affected. ' Sometimes they are much wasted and attenuated, less commonly • thickened—the latter chiefly in the saccular form. The elastic fibres are (according to Forster) always diminished, and the in- creased thickness, which is only found in chronic cases where the dilatation has existed a long time, is said to be always due to hypertrophy of fibrous tissue. The smooth muscle-fibres of the bronchial tubes are said by the same authority to be unaltered in the thickened walls. The inner surface is often uneven, being ' traversed by ridges, which leave deep recesses between them. The : mucous membrane is usually in a state of chronic inflammation, ■ being swollen, injected, and covered with purulent secretion. 1 Occasionally the suppuration extends to the deeper tissue, destroy- ing the wall and causing ulceration, from which ultimately a cavity may result. Condition of the Pulmonary Tissue.—The surrounding paren- chyma of the lung presents two orders of changes, the one thought to be connected with the production of bronchial dilatation, the other resulting from it. In the former case there is induration, imperfect expansion, or contraction of the lung tissue ; and putting tithe case conversely, it may be said that whenever these conditions are present there is more or less dilatation of the bronchial tubes. ! This sequence is seen in phthisical conditions of the lung, in chronic f Dmutnonio., and especially in that peculiar condition called bv I Lomgan cirrhosis of the lung. Wasting of the lung tissue is very | common, and sometimes reaches an extreme degree, so that all the j tissue intervening between the dilated tubes disappears, and the » latter come in contact, or even form communications one with J: the other. This is usually set down as a consequence of the 1 dilatation, but since atrophy often results from the conditions just mentioned, which lead to induration and contraction, it is • not certain that so clear a line should be drawn between the Ptwo. When induration takes place, destruction of the lun» | gangrene, and perforation of the pleura, with its consequences’ may result. ’ Causes of Dilatation of the Bronchi.—By far the commonest ntecetlont condition is bronchitis, especially a chronic form of it ana this supplies at once two factors which are doubtless concerned the production of dilatation, viz., relaxation of the walls, which