598 INTESTINAL CHANGES IN DYSENTERY. being swollen and red. All tbe coats sometimes are much softened, and the submucous tissue becomes sloughy. The changes just enumerated as occurring in the most extreme degree ol the dis- ease, are of much the same kind as those which Dr. Copland describes to take place “ in the most malignant varieties, and in the scorbutic complication. The internal surface ol the whole digestive tube is,” in these cases, “of a livid purple, or dark colour, with patches of ecchymoses, excoriation, ulceration, and sphacelation. The viilous coat, particularly m the seat of ecchy- moses, may readily be rubbed off; and the ulcers have a foul and dark appearance. The liver is sometimes large, soft, and spongy; at others, pale and soft, especially in cases where the loss of blood has been very large. The spleen is sometimes so softened as to appear semi-fluid or sphacelated. The heart is often partially softened or flaccid ; the pericardium and pleural cavities containing a bloody, dark, and dirty serum. The lungs are often congested; the bronchial lining dark or ecchymosed ; and the blood, in ail the large vessels, is semi-fluid, black, and of a. very loose texture. “ In prolonged inflammatory cases, thickening and almost cartil- aginous induration of a considerable part of the colon are not unfrequent, the thickened or indurated portion being also con- tracted in calibre. In such cases, the parts above the contraction are greatly distended, the coats being thinned, ulcerated, and even lacerated;” so as to give rise to effusion and fatal peritonitis. The darkly-congested mucous membrane is often discernible through the peritoneal and other coats, especially if, as is oiLen the case, the intestine is distended. In the severer cases the serous membrane is dulled and discoloured, and sometimes covered with a brownish ichorous exudation. The mesocolic lymphatic glandb are swollen and congested. In the dysentery which occurs in this country, abscess of the liver is rare; a case, however, is recorded m the Report of the Pathological Society, 1 Sol-52. Dr. Baly has never met with it during his experience at the Millbank Peniten- tiary, where the disease is very common ; but m India it is said to occur in nearly half the cases. We have recorded, m the Report of the Pathological Society, 1817-48, an instance m which the destruction of the mucous membrane was confined to the interstices of numerous prominences or ridges, these being themselves t sole remnants of the mucous tissue. This is the converse of the more usual condition, in which the prominent parts are moso affected. After extensive ulceration has occurred, reparation be effected in the usual way by organization of plastic exudation into a smooth fibroid layer which constitutes, a cicatiix. . » nrobably may be covered after a time by an epithelial layer, it has not been shown yet that the follicles of Lieberkue n reuroduced. When extensive destruction of substance has a- ulace the cicatrix tissue “ is frequently condensed into fibrous bands which form corded projections into the intestinal cavity, interlace with one another, and not unfrequently encroach up