4 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. sequence of which it is affected in a different manner by some influences to that which is commonly experienced. Thus some persons are attacked by asthma or bronchitis on inhaling the odour of hay; some are almost poisoned by taking the smallest dose of a mercurial. One at least has been mentioned (by Dr. Prout) who could not eat mutton in any form without being attacked by violent vomiting and diarrhoea. In such persons the qualities and endowments of one or more organs must be essen- tially different to those of the same parts in the vast majority of mankind. Yet there is not the least reason for supposing that, by any scrutiny, we could detect any structural difference, and they must, therefore, be deemed instances of aberring function. One remarkable instance it seems worth while to adduce here, which affords an excellent illustration of the connection that may obtain between disordered function and alteration of structure. The Graafian vesicle in the ovary, instinct with a wonderful capa- city of life, which only needs its appropriate stimulus to rouse it into that activity which issues in the production of another being, not unfrequently, as if affected by some strange and unnatural stimulus, proceeds to develop itself into a huge anomalous growth, utterly imperfect, and unlike what, under normal conditions, it should have produced, and yet exhibiting some traces such as are fouud in no other growth of its original destiny, by the formation of several of the natural tissues, skin, teeth, hair, nay, even brain, &c. Here it seems impossible to recognize any other cause of the organic alteration beside the perversion or aberrance of a natural function or endowment. The term Diathesis is applied to a certain condition of the general system often inherited, which renders it especially liable to some particular form of disease ; thus we speak of the scrofulous or tubercular diathesis, of the gouty aiathesis, and so on. If the diathesis or predisposition be strong, a slight exciting cause will be sufficient to induce the malady, if it be absent,& no exciting cause may produce any effect A diathesis may, therefore, be considered as a kind of special weakness. Degeneration of a part or tissue implies generally its slow and gradual conversion into some lower kind of structure less ntteu for the purpose it has to fulfil, as when cartilage is converted into a kind of fibrous tissue; or it may imply the atrophy and destruc- tion of a part, as of the cortical structiu-e of the kidney in Origin s disease. It is to be regarded in some measure as a local infirmity. It was formerly a much debated question, whether diseases had their principal seat in the fluids or solids of the body; and each ot the two opposed theories has at times been dominant. At the present day we marvel how men could have adopted exclusively one view or the other, and refused to allow to each their share in the production of morbid phenomena. There can be no question, from known physical laws, that the blood must, in very many cases, bo the first recipient of aeriform noxious matters, of all such miasmata as thoso of typhus, smallpox, &c. The instant that those