254 THE BRAIN.—GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. explanation, we sliall be constantly at a loss to find the proper terms for morbid conditions, and they would themselves appear to contradict our theories. We cannot enter further into tlu- ques- tion, but we hope that the suggestions just thrown out may serve to reconcile some conflicting views on the subject; the positne denial of various physiologists, of any variation in the quantity of blood in the brain, apparently supported by such experiments as those of Dr. Kellie, has served not a little to confuse the stu- dent. Dr. Burrows* investigated this question fully, and from experiments and physiological considerations, arrived at the con- clusion which seems unavoidable to the practitioner of medicine, that the Quantity of the blood within the cranium is extremely variable at different times, and under different circumstances. AK inquirers are agreed that the relative amount of blood in the different sets of vessels, in the veins, and arteries, varies consider - ably • and on this point Dr. Kelhe’s experiments appear to afloid conclusive evidence; though the examination of a few bodies would mifficS to show tllG S51ID.6 i • n There can be no doubt that the most important influence moch- fving the amount of blood in the brain is the fulness of the ventricles and other cavities of the subarachnoid spaces ami ofl the lvmnhatic “spaces” or sheaths surrounding the cerebral blood- vessel all of which spaces contain a watery fluid identical with 7i ’ i cninnl fluid and all communicate with one another. with regal'd to the «P««s stroller hr heroic °°UObmMral Lmm.-W e frequently mats post-mortem hr- uoscure wflerp all the symptoms indicated that deatha proceeded from cerebral lesion, and where, neverthe- dcath proceeae discover any disorganization such as less, we are unable to Jscover^ lany^ ^ the case. would appear t J - in some 0f the cranial conteniS the vertebral arteries have sufficiently after the carotids had bee 1 n the functions of demonstrated the mfluen • 1vnl.;aKlv produced an instant arrest the brain. The compression and when the of respiration, c°nviKaons, d ^ ,innnal gradually recovered. tte h"”“" t •< Guy’s Hospital Repot ts," vol. 1. P-165. 1836.