CIRRHOSIS OF THE LIVER. G22 ing with, their own. peculiar morhid action opposed parts with which they come in contact; such tainting of a part may he con- ceived to he quite inconsistent with the effusion of comparatively healthy lymph. The capsule of the liver is very frequently found thickened, appearing whiter, more opaque, and dense; this thickening generally occurs in patches of various size, which sometimes coexist together with the hands of adhesion . j ust noticed, hut quite as often are independent of them, or coincident with similar thickenings of other serous membranes. It seems doubtful whether these changes should not be more properly classed as degenerations than as inflammations. On© conspicuous form of perihepatitis is produced by syphilis. The capsule is found greatly thickened, often over a large extent, and the liver wasted. A considerable degree of perihepatitis also often accompanies cirrhosis. Affections of the capsule of the liver are however, usually associated with similar affections ot the peritoneum generally. Small fibrous outgrowths, called by Dr. Moxon “Pacchionian bodies of the Liver,” are sometimes found in association, it is said, with obstructive disease of the heart, especially of the right side. , ,, , Gamrene of the liver is very rare; Rokitansky well observes that “ it is developed in parts affected with inflammation and suppura- tion not so much as a result of intense inflammation as of certain peculiar conditions which cause a tendency to gangrenous degene- ration.” These peculiar conditions may he probably either low, unhealthy states of the general system, or, as m the interesting case recorded by Dr. Budd, the septic influence of a previously healthy part which had been affected by gangrene. Cirrhosis* or Chronic Interstitial Hepatitis.—This condition, which is sometimes described as chronic inflammation, consists essentially in an hypertrophy of the connective tissue framework of the organ, with degeneration of the parenchymatous substance. It occurs in two forms, very different in external appearance, though essentially the same-(l) The granular or contracted form, cirrhosis as usually understood; (2) The smooth form, sometimes recognizable with difficulty except by micioscopi GX1 ^OrMrnry Cirrhosis.—A liver which is affected by this change in an extreme degree is remarkably altered. It is much smal than natural, much paler, and instead of presenting a-smooth _ ^ face, is contracted and puckered so as to resemble, according former observer, “a congeries of little firm globules like the vitellarium of a laying hen.” . These globular. Zl yellowish or bile-stained, and project on the surface, the same are S°They ^rtTof various sizes, and evidently consist of parenchy- portions.