467 (EDEMA PULMOXUH. gives rise to a condition analogous to infantile atelectasis, known a's earnlfication. The collapse of the air-cells is in fact quite as com- plete and the lung equally deprived of air; but as the pressure from being external acts more uniformly, the change extends over huger poitions, and exhibits a gradually increasing condensa- tion. In early stages the carnified portion is purplish, full of blood and tough, but easily inflated from the trachea. Afterwards it becomes bloodless, slate-coloured, very dense, or almost like india- rubber, and is no longer susceptible of inflation. Partial changes of the same kind are also in adults attributed to bronchitis Kesults similar to those of compression may follow from the diminution m the size of the chest consequent on spinal curvature and we meet with an analogous condition in advanced age—the apices of the lungs being converted into a dense melanotic mass, in. which we are unable to trace tubercular deposit, while there is an obliteration of the vesicular structure, and apparently also of the blood-vessels. The tissues present a viscid, tenacious mass, deprived ot all am Under the microscope, we see an almost homogeneous ir^niaD|e’ th*?ugd yduch the carbonaceous deposit is scattered -regularly, with only here and there a trace of the circular fibres vaHnn !!‘g' 1 tlKLCaSr wplch have fallei* under our own obser- vahon, there was a thickened pleura forming a cap over the apex, compression, have contributed much to the remit ST :Jihfher any Pneum°nia had aided in producing the result is doubtful; our impression certainly is against this view |Lnu,ST deposit of carbonaceous matter associated with the i-u f Pleurihc exudation in the confined post-clavicular region of produced^ appeanag ade(luate iu itself to account for the effect (EDEMA PUEMONUM. wPBn!^re. lnvesti,gating the inflammatory conditions of the lungs whirWCrred !i° deyote some consideration to a morbid state y m!et Wlth 111 tlie dead body, and which, since the r!!!?tou °f ,thr'! Profession was first especially directed to it by PulmonumheSTtf Laen,nec’* has beou knowu by the term of (Edema tion of ti", + exists, as its name implies, in a serous infiltra- caus -•« n 6 rntferstitiu-l portion of the pulmonary parenchyma. It has lost ite Sfr i01 the «rgan, which pits more or less on pressure, the i , ^ • tural crepitant sensation, and does not collapse when paUor andX 18 °?ened-1 ^ “^““tous lung is characterized by La,, r d “la’ and when cut mto discharges an abundance of with 1 chaiactenstic. Pulmonary oedema occurs in connection ven-’cor,! dS i r0Su t of’ a 8Teat van°ty of debilitating diseases It «y ommonly supervenes immediately before death; and has been * Da l’Auscultation Mrdiate,’ vol. i. p. 319.