ADVENTITIOUS PEODUCTS IN THE PLEUIIA. 533 the lungs, will probably be simultaneously affected. The lungs are in these cases probably never affected without some participa- tion of the pleurae. In more chronic cases the tubercles are found chiefly in thickened pleurae, or even, according to Eokitansky, in ■.actual false membranes. . The highly vascular cedematous adhe- sions met with in chronic phthisis sometimes furnish the most exquisite examples of early stages of tubercle, which will be found i.following the course of the blood-vessels. Kokitanskv again ; describes tubercular abscesses which form in pseudo-membranous •structures, and may perforate the pleura, and even the thoracic walls. Malignant growths never affect the jileura primarily, but involve The membrane by extension from the mamma, the bronchial . glands, the mediastina, or from other neighbouring tissues. They jappear on the pleura as flattened masses, rarely larger than an almond, surrounded by a halo of blood-vessels, mile tubercle accurs in very, numerous small spots spread all over the mem- hrane, cancer is only seen in a few isolated patches. Both are “ j induce serous effusion of a sanguinolent character •Medullary carcinoma and melanotic cancer are the forms of -malignant disease that most frequently attack the pleura. Hydatid cysts appear to occur in the pleura. Cruveilhier * details a case in which a large number of acephalo-cysts were Discharged from an artificial opening, apparently communicating with the pleural cavity, in a whitesmith aged twenty-nine; the man entirely recovered, after the evacuation of above five hundred aydatids. Dr. Hodgkin,t in his fifth lecture, speaks of a specimen rireeented to Guy’s Museum, in which a large cyst containing icephaio-cyst hydatids is situated in part beneath the close peri- -'ardium about the base of the heart, and partly under the pleura ipulmonalis at the root and summit of the right lung. * ” i^na^Tn*e ^^hologique,” vol. i. p. 247. ■* u Morbid Anatomy of the Serous Membranes,” vol. i. p. 137.