763 MUCOUS AND GLANDULAR POLYPI. uterine parietes, which had become converted into a mere mem- brane. The tumour had been diagnosed as scirrhus when she was at the age of forty. It was found on analysis to contain nearly two-thirds of phosphate of lime. Clinically it is found convenient to distinguish certain varieties of muscular tumours of the uterus according to the precise part of the uterine wall in which they appear. Thus, those on the outer surface—sub-peritoneal; those lying imbedded in the thicknes sof the wall—parietal; those projecting somewhat into the cavity—sub- mucous ; and the further stage of this last, when the growth swings by a pedicle into the uterine cavity—fibroid polypus, have all special habits of growth, and are attended with special symptoms. The first, sub-peritoneal, usually attain the largest size, and the last, polypi, interfere most gravely with the uterine function, giving rise to haemorrhage, and occasionally being spontaneously expelled by the uterus, which hypertrophies for the purpose, as in preg- nancy ; whilst the parietal tumours not unfrequently play an im- portant part in the production of the flexions noted on a previous page. But, pathologically, all are alike overgrowths, more or less cir- cumscribed, of the normal uterine tissue, and are subject to the same periodical change of bulk, at the same time having an inde- pendent tendency to continuous growth, and a liability to the various degenerative processes common to all new formations. So perfect is the muscular structure of these tumours before de- generation has set in, that they are capable of spontaneous contrac- tion and relaxation, as has been observed by Virchow and others. Dr. Barnes has described (St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports, 1871) a form of polypus under the name of hypertrophic polypus. This growth is a pedunculated mass of plain muscular tissue, usually of small size, and often multiple, springing from within the greatly hypertrophied neck of the so-called “prolapsed” uterus, and causing the hremorrhage which not unfrequently complicates these cases. Fibro-museular tumours have not been observed before puberty. Dr. Lee agrees with the statements made by Bayle, that they are most frequent in virgins, and that they exist in twenty out of a hundred middle-aged women. MUCOUS AND GLANDULAR POLYPI. Besides the pendulous myomata, or fibro-museular growths, which are the commonest form of uterine polypi, there are certain soft, succulent growths which occasionally project into the cavity of the uterus or its mouth, either sessile or with long slender pedicles, and which are obviously overgrowths or outgrowths from the mucous lining of the organ, and very different from the solid fleshy tumours just described.