MUSCULAR TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. 71)0 occur imbedded in the texture of the organ, or protruding from it- inner surface in the cavity, or from some part of the external surface. When projecting into the cavity of the uterus thev Fig. 179. Fibro-muscular tumour projecting into tlie cavity of the uterus. (St. George’s Museum, 128.) receive the name of fibrous polypi. While imbedded in the uterine tissue they form glo- bular, white, glistening, dense, tumours; there may be only one, or they may be numerous. In preparation, No. 2,674, in the Royal College of Surgeons, we see a uterus, with from eight to nine large fibroid tumours in its walls, varying from one to four inches in dia- meter. In size they differ even more than in number; they are seen in every gradation, from that of a pin’s head to that of a melon. The prepa- ration spoken of further on is an instance of the great deve- lopment they attain. Dr. Lee mentions one weighing fifty- four pounds, which contained several cysts filled with fluid. The fibroid tumour is sur- rounded by a membrane which separates it from the uterine tissue, so that there is no very intimate union between the two structures. “The most usual position for these tumours,” according to Mr. Lee’s analysis of seventy-four cases, “ is the submucous, viz., those pro- jecting into the cavity of the womb, and the pedicles of these are gene- rally situated just below the openings of the Fallopian tubes. The next position in which they are most abundant is the posterior wall and fundus of the uterus; they are very rarely situated in the ante- rior wall, and still more rarely in the cervix uteri.” Of the gene- ral truthfulness of these remarks, every one may convince himself by glancing through one of the metropolitan museums of patho- logical anatomy. It appears that the nearer the original growth takes place to the mucous surface of the uterus, the more a gradual extension of the entire tumour into its cavity is likely to ensue. In this way we account for the gradual elongation of the pedicle, which after a time is the only connection between the tumour and its matrix; it may then be removed with comparative facility by operative procedure. The pedicle is not, however, a necessary consequence of the arrival of the fibroid tumour at the external surfaces. In one of the largest specimens which has come under our notice, (Royal College of Surgeons; No. 2,672) which is also remarkable as affecting the cervix exclusively, the remainder of the