THE PRODUCTS AND RESULTS OP INFLAMMATION. 95 One important remark of Rokitansky must not be omitted, iviz., that even resolution does not, especially if the inflammation l has been extensive, leave the system in as favourable a condition .as before the attack, since a large quantity of liquor sanguinis, iwhich, during the stasis, has undergone certain changes, is set ffree to mingle with the general mass of the blood. This must [produce a contaminating effect until it be eliminated. Henc9 the benefit of a free action of the skin, of a free flow of urine, {purging, &c. THE PRODUCTS AND RESULTS OP INFLAMMATION. We now come to the consideration of, first, inflammatory '■exudations, an<l secondly, of the changes that take place in the ttissues affected by them. The fluid effused in inflammation is ecommonly the liquor sanguinis, more or less modified, especially ccontaining a less proportion of albumen and fibrine. An analysis bby Simon, of fluid obtained by paracentesis thoracis, shows in 11,000 parts, 934-72 of water, 1-02 of fibrine, 1-05 of fat, 48-86 of .albumen and albuminate of soda, 11-99 of extractive matter, and !|9-0o of fixed salts. The quantity of fibrine varies considerably, 'borne effusions consist chiefly of it, others contain very little; .-generally it may be said its quantity is in proportion to the vigour of the system, and the acuteness and sthenic character of the inflammation. The fibrine may coagulate quickly, or remain in :its fluid state, for a length of time, in the part where it is effused, .■mood corpuscles, or dissolved hiematine, may be mingled with the exuded matter m various proportions. Though we often speak of -serous effusions as the result of inflammations, yet the opinion expressed by Sir J. Paget is probably correct, that “an effusion of serum alone is a rare effect of inflammation, and that generally it is characteristic of only the lowest degrees of the disease.” He mentions as instances inflammatory oedema of the mucous folds above the glottis, chemosis of the conjunctiva, and some forms of hydrocephalus. The fluid obtained from blisters contains either distinct fibrinous coagula, or only a small proportion of fibrine together with multitudes of punform corpuscles Varieties of Inflammatory Products.-The chemical examination of inflammatory products is very difficult, partly in consequence Ibf the impossibility of procuring more than very small quan- Mties, partly because they can so seldom be obtained pure • tlm^vhole of our knowledge, therefore, has refer! once to the differences which are perceptible to the eye and :o the microscope in the solidified and shaped constituents of the exudation. These, however, afford very valuable mdi ■ lations for forming a judgment of the nature and tendency of .he process from which they spring; the most important differ- ences between different exudations being the greater or loss