ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 659 Dermoid cysts, containing fat and hair, have in rare cases been observed. Changes in the Capsule.—The fibrous capsule of the spleen is very frequently the seat of chronic fibroid thickening, which sometimes proceeds to a very great extent. The thick- ened membrane has much the aspect of cartilage, but none of its real characters. Usually the thickening extends pretty uni- formly over the surface, leaving, however, here and there, spots less affected; some- times it forms nodular masses grouped together, and sometimes patches which look like drops of tallow deposited on the sur- face. In one case we examined carefully, it was very apparent that the thickening had taken place on the inner surface of the capsule, at the expense of the parenchyma, and we are inclined to think this is generally the case. Certainly the process is distinct from the formation of bands of adhesion to adjacent parts. A thickening of the capsule may be all that remains of a wasted block. Ossification of the thickened fibroid layers takes place, though rarely, and chiefly in very old persons. Morbid Conditions of the Vessels.—Extreme atheroma of the splenic artery leads as in other cases to wasting of the organ. Thrombosis of the vein occurs not unfrequently in leuchaemia; and sometimes in other conditions, especially, as it is said, in suppuration. Phlebolithes may form in the venous channels thus obstructed. Fig. 150. Fibroid thickening of capsule, encroaching on the dark parenchyma. Vertical section. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE THYROID GLAND. We are not acquainted with any instance of excessive congenital development of this gland, unless the rare occurrence of simple hypertrophy should be regarded as such. Mr. Curling has recorded in the “ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions ” (vol. xxxiii.), two instances of its absence in idiots. The most complete account of its morbid alterations is that given by Professor Hasse, from Which we shall extract the greater part of the following summary : — Inflammation of the thyroid is rare. It may attack the organ either when healthy or when enlarged by previous disease. Its course is more frequently chronic than acute. Within a very Dnef interval the gland often swells considerably,—becomes very blood-shot, tense, and painful,—its texture softened and friable, assuming first a brown-red, and ultimately a dingy-grey colour.’’ When suppuration occurs, there may be several foci, or one large one involving the whole gland. The abscess may open externally ii°or CES0P1'laglls. or into the trachea, as in a case figured by JJr' •baLLil°. After this has occurred the gland on the side affected