485 ABSCESS. stages'when the new-formed cells present the uniform or “indif- ferent” character of inflammatory cells in general. In general no fibrin is to be seen, but, nevertheless, in a considerable number of cases of broncho-pneumonia some air cells at least will show some fibrinous threads among the inflammatory cells. The process may be very well traced in those parts of a phthisical lung where the morbid change is just beginning (see Fig. 110 d). Here we see large flat cells detached from the walls and lyin°- free in the cavity mixed with other products of inflammation. (In the specimen figured, blood corpuscles are seen, but these have no relation to the catarrhal condition, but are a sign of phthisis.) This appearance is very rarely met with, and in general we find the air cells occupied with indifferent roundish corpuscles like those produced m inflammation of the bronchi. This fact has led some observers (as Buhl) to deny altogether the existence of a catarrhal inflammation of the alveoli, and to speak of these cells as the results of bronchial inflammation drawn into the air vesicles during inspiration. The gradual consolidation of the lung tissue they believe to be due to filling up with bronchial products. We must admit that the histology of ordinary cases of broncho- pneumonia shows nothing to contradict this view. Consequences of Catarrhal Pneumonia— This form of pneumonia is particularly fatal in childhood, and that description which often suc- ceeds measles has acquired an especially ill- omened reputation. The total result in many cases depends on the gradual obstruction of tfie air cells by products which the expiratory efforts cannot remove, and is accelerated by the addition of collapse. But in 0vcases inflammation runs on into a destructive process in which masses of consolidated lung tissue soften and form cavities m tact a kmd of phthisis. This constitutes what has been called scrofulous pneumonia, or caseous pneumonia, or formerly tuber- cular infiltration, and often produces the clinical symptoms of galloping consumption.” ABSCESS. "W e have already seen that the formation of abscesses, such as we meet with in other organs and on the surface of the body is a rare_ event in the lungs, notwithstanding the frequency with which inflammation attacks them. Yet a suppurative destruction ot the tissue occasionally leads to this result, and we then find a cavity varying in size from that of a marble to that of an entire ohe, and presenting ragged parietes; it contains pulmonary debris and pus, which partially infiltrate the adjoining tissues as there is no lining membrane; or the abscess may have dis ’ charged its contents, and we then only meot with the irregular excavations with jagged walls. Formerly the frequency ofgpul- kno^ fblceslwas ordered to be much greater than we now Know it to be, because tubercular cavities were confounded with