NEW GROWTH OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 135 often constitutes a disease by itself as in the changes known as fibroid degeneration or induration, which depend upon an increase of the connective tissue normally existing in the organ affected. Newly formed connective tissue is usually found in connection with previously existing tissue of the same kind, and appears to he formed by continuous development from it; but in some cases it has been thought that it is produced by metamorphosis of the elements of the blood, either within the vessels as in the trans- formation of a blood clot into fibrous tissue, or outside, in the case of white blood cells which have passed through the vascular walls. Connective tissue of new formation is usually well supplied and sometimes richly supplied with vessels. It is composed of fibres with connective tissue corpuscles and nuclei; the latter being especially numerous in recently produced tissue. It is liable to shrivel and contract; as well as to undergo both fatty and cal- careous degeneration. When a new growth of connective tissue forms a distinct isolated mass it is either a fibrous tumour (Fibroma, Innoma) or a fibro-cellular tumour. Fibrous Tumours.—These constitute a group with tolerably well- marked structural characters, but shading, almost imperceptibly, into other species of very different nature. They are essentially made up of fibres, more or less closely resem- bling those of connective tissue, but appearing in very various stages of de- velopment in different spe- cimens. Sometimes the fibres are tolerably distinct and separate; more often so interlaced and blended together, or so imperfectly evolved, that they cannot be made out as such. Some- times the fundamental sub- stance is on the other hand amorphous or very indis- tinctly fibrillated. They contain also in various abundance the character- istic “ connective tissue cor- puscles ” or plasmatic cells ; which are stellate or fusi- form, nucleated, and ana- stomose with one another. Fia. Ifi. Section of a simple iibrous tumour of the skin. (Fiom an original preparation,) Yellow elastic fibrous tissue is not frequently mingled with the white. Beside these elements fibrous tumours contain blood-vessels which are sometimes verv numerous; but no other tissue in large quantity. Tumours com-