CHAPTER XXV. THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. The fact of the coagulation of blood in the vessels during life is one of so much importance as to require special consideration. To this process the term Thrombosis (Gr. dpopficacns, curdling or coagulation) has been applied; and a clot formed some time before death is called a thrombus, to distinguish it from those formed after death or when death is approaching. Such clots may be found in the heart, the veins, arteries, or capillaries; but they occur in veins far more frequently than elsewhere. A thrombus is known from a post-mortem clot either from some changes having taken place in it since its formation, or else by a heterogeneousness of composition which shows that it was not all formed at one time ; or possibly by some peculiarity showing that it was formed while the blood was in motion. In the absence of all these characters it is still possible that a clot may have been formed before death; but we shall not be able to prove it. The changes which take place in clots after their formation are such as adhesion to the walls of the vessel, rearrangement of their constituents, and either hardening and drying up or softening and liquefaction. The process called organization may be the final stage. The rearrangement of the constituents of the clot is shown by the centre becoming decolorized, and by the surface becoming covered with a whitish granular layer, composed chiefly of leucocytes. The latter change may occur without the others, and is of itself enough to show that the clot has existed some little time, i.e., that it is a thrombus. Sometimes a clot is found to be distinctly heterogeneous or stratified, and composed of layers which are not wholly alike. This shows that it was not all formed at one time, and is, of course, positive evidence that great part at least was formed before death. Varieties of Thrombi.—A thrombus which remains fixed at the spot where it was formed is called primitive. If coagulation spread gradually from this original point along the vessel we get a prolonged thrombus. In veins the process advances in the direc- tion of tho heart as far as the opening of the vessel into a larger