373 THE ABTEBIES. 4 cannot be sure that the blocking of the artery was not the primary ■ occurrence ancl cause of the other symptoms. The whole train of phenomena precisely corresponds with what is now called embolism. Of late years such cases have rarely been described, and excellent | i observers, with unusual opportunities for observation, as Dr. Wilks, h have never seen a single case. So that the older observations must i now be accepted with some degree of caution. Bizot describes as the result of acute inflammation of the arte- ries, an “albuminous exudation” of greater or less thickness, of the consistency of jelly, transparent, smooth, sometimes rose-coloured, i at others colourless, covering the lining membrane. It is occa- - sionally so transparent as to escape attention unless very carefully ■ examined. It occurs in patches, solitary or numerous, and dimi- nishes the calibre of the vessel; in one case Bizot saw it entirely : plugging up the anterior tibial artery. In the aorta this exudation Ms formed mostly at the orifice of the arteries arising from the arch, at the mouth of thecceliac, mesenteric and renal arteries, and at its ; posterior surface, so as to block up the mouths of the intercostal ■ a arteries. More recently MM. Cornil aud Ranvier* have described acute I1’endarteritis in somewhat similar terms, as characterized by swell- ing of the internal coat in the form of flat patches of various size, in colour and consistency resembling the “exudations” described by Bizot. These plates are found to be in great part composed of "Tound embryonic cells, which result from the proliferation of nor- mal elements of the internal coat, which is most active near the ‘-.surface. They insist upon the fact that this multiplication of 1 .elements on the surface of the internal coat is peculiar to acute ■ endarteritis, and distinguishes it from chronic atheromatous ■ endarteritis (which will be presently spoken of), where the same cichanges go on in the deep layer of the internal coat. Cornil and RRanvior have on several occasions seen this process in the aorta ; .'they regard it as rare in medium-sized and small arteries, but common in the vessels contained in the granulating tissues of wounds. Though these views are opposed to those which have ‘been prevalent of late years, when it has been customary to deny the existence of acute endarteritis, there scorns no reason why this •mould not occur here as well as in tho corresponding tissue of The endocardium and in tho internal coat of veins ; whero we have reason to believe such a process does take place. As an instance of what was formerly called arteritis, we may take the following case of “ acute inflammation of the aorta,” recorded by Mr. Hodgson.f A man was seized with violent pneumonia, which proved fatal in five days. The cadaveric inspection exhibited all the thoracic viscera in tho highest degrco of acute inflamma- tion ; the aorta was also involved, its internal coat boing of a deep I “ HisMo^ie Patliolopque,” 1873, deuxiOmc partie, p. 530. + “On the Arteries,” p. a.