TUBERCLE. 195 especially the omentum or the pia mater of the brain; it being difficult to distinguish them in the lungs from other small masses, which owe their form to the anatomical structure of the lungs. Miliary tubercles are for the most part, though not invariably, formed around vessels, and not so much round capillaries as round the smaller arteries and veins. The origin of the elements r,G- 46- composing tubercle is variously explained, and three views must specially be mentioned. In the first place it has been supposed that a homogeneous blastema is first effused in the fluid condition, ai.d becomes organized into a tubercle. Quite lately, Schuppel has contended that the origin of .tubercle is free cell-formation from blastema within a vein. In the second place it has been held that the elements of tubercle are derived from the elements of the tissues by pro- liferation ; that is to say, that they are descendants of the connective-tissue nuclei in the walls of arteries, and the nuclei ot capillaries; or of the epithe- lial structures lining the lym- phatic perivascular sheaths (of cerebral arteries), and other forms of serous epithelium (see Fig. 46). A third hypothe- sis is that the original tuber- cle elements are white cells of the blood which have passed through the vascular wall. It is impossible to discuss these theories here, since the preference given to one over the other must depend upon general principles; the evidence not being com- plete in any particular case. It is only certain that in the vessels ot the pia mater and brain, where the relations of tubercle to vessels can be best studied, the first growth begins in that space between^the proper wall of the vessel and its outer sheath, which is sometimes called a lymphatic space. FinaUy, it should bo stated that Dr. Burdon Sanderson, believes all miliary tubercles (at least as produced experimentally) to bo enlargements of previously existing masses of adenoid tissue Miliary tubercle of the omentum and changes in surrounding parts. a. Tubercle completely formed, b. Cluster of small cells forming an incipient tubercle (mass of adenoid tissue, Sanderson), d. Proliferation of serous epithelium. (From an original preparation.) See “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” xxi. 198, pi. V.