260 HAEMORRHAGE. Fio. 66. Tlie changes included in the term chronic arteritis will be spoken of under the general head of Diseases of the Arteries, hut the occur- rence of aneurisms of the cerebral arteries requires some considera- Intracranial Aneurisms.—Aneurisms of the same kind as those occurring in other organs may of course occur in the cerebral arte- ries, and have been seen, both at various points on the circle of Willis, and on branches within the brain.* They are generally associated with disease of the vessel, and hardly ever occur in voung persons. When associated with youth and healthy vessels, their formation is not easy to explain, but has been thought to be in some cases due to embolism.t .. Another kind of aneurism, characteristic of, though not peculiar to, the cerebral vessels, is so important as to deserve special men- tl0 Miliary Aneurisms of Cerebral Arteries.—MM.. .Charcot and Bouchard have lately published observations from which they draw the conclusion that the most important and only essential condition of cerebral hemorrhage is the presence of minute or miliary aneurisms on the cerebral vessels. They attribute the formation of these aneurisms and of more general dilatations which accompany them, not to what is ordinarily called atheroma, or to fatty degeneration, but a peculiar affection of the outer coot of the artery, and of its lymphatic sheath; com- mencing with a great multiplication of the nuclei which these structures naturally contain, and leading to a fibrous metamorphosis, sometimes ac- companied by thickening of these parts. The middle coat loses its muscular fibres, which undergo atrophy, and it is sometimes thickened. The inner coat shows simply multiplication ot nuclei. The net result of these changes is, that where there is no marked thickening of the walls, they become weaker, and permit ol aneurismal dilatation. which may be Miliary cerebral aneurism and surrounding blood clot. A, The aneurism; B, remnants of the ruptured perivascular sheath; o, extravasatedblood. (After Charcot and Bouchard.) The early or nuclear staged this morbid process - Tta irUm, livrf to r«3 , • Cases mav befound in « Trans. Path. 8oc„" 1856, vol. vii. PP-122.125 (and Fig. 5), *' 1S^&U?“St: Bartholomew's Hospital Reports," 1S70.