90 VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. the fever is of a lower type, and the effused matters manifest little plasticity. The terms acute, eul-acule, and chronic, have reference mainly to the periods of duration of the inflammation, or to the rapidity or slowness of its course. Acute inflammation is often, but not necessarily, sthenic; chronic and sub-acute are often not asthenic. Many changes are commonly said to proceed from chronic inflammation, which probably belong more to the class of degenerations; it is, however, difficult to draw any marked line between the two. The term “ sthenic” has been objected to by some who have taken it to imply that the morbid process was attended by an increase of vital force. Such of course is not the case ; but the name may be well retained, to designate a variety of inflammation, which differs in several respects, notably in the cr6i’.vos of the pulse from another form, whose features are those of debility. Intensity of Inflammation.—Inflammations may be of very dif- ferent grades of intensity, as is well exemplified in the case of the pleurae. Some pleurisies give rise to effusions which are scarcely more than modified liquor sanguinis, and are easily resorbed, while others fill the serous cavity with perfect pus, and depress the vital powers seriously. It is important to be aware that an inflammation may be sub-acute or chronic from the outset; an acute inflammation cannot well be overlooked—a chronic, if un- preceded by acute symptoms, may easily be : such inflammations are sometimes said to be latent. Congestive inflammation differs not much from asthenic; its effusions are of the same kind, but it partakes in a considerable degree of the nature of passive hypermmia—indeed, is such originally, and has, subsequently, inflammation, acute or subacute, grafted upon it. This must be remembered in treating it. Specific Inflammations.—The chief character of erythematous or erysipelatous inflammation is its tendency to spread and travel over an extensive surface ; this seems to depend, at least in part, on the peculiar character of the effusion, which consists, for the most part, of serum, or sero-purulent matter, and not of fibrine, which in phlegmonous inflammations establishes a barrier between them and the surrounding textures. The general symptoms.are in most cases those of adynamic or typhoid fever; depletion is injurious, and stimulants are required at an early period. There is good evidence to show that a peculiar poison, capable of being communicated by infection, is the cause of these inflammations, and that this acts upon and modifies the system, even before the phlogistic process has made its appearance. They are, therefore, with respect to their exciting cause, to be ranked together with other inflammations, such as the rheumatic, gouty, syphilitic, &c., each of which manifests certain peculiarities, but depends, essentially, upon the presence of some materies morhi in the blood. These inflammations also exhibit verv clearly the affinity of certain parts of the tissues for certain morbid matters, which are their exciting causes; thus, lepra has its seat