G38 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE LIVER. them, or by fibrinous masses coagulated ■within their channel. Jaundice is often observed in cancerous disease of the liver: its production, doubtless, takes place in the same way as that just noticed; the gall ducts being obstructed and the escape of bile from various parts of the organ prevented. When the masses are so situated as to press on the common duct leaving the others free enormous distension of the gall-bladder may take place-it has been seen as large as the foetal head; such a result, however, is more likely to be produced by cancerous disease of the head ot the nancreas than by growths in the substance of the liver. Inmarj cancer of the liveris stated by Dr. Budd, seldom if ever, to occur before the a°-e of thirty-five : from this to fifty-five is the epoch at which it°most frequently manifests itself; but it is very rare at any age, so much so that some observers have called m question the occurrence of primary cancer in this organ. Secondary cancers of the liver may occur at any age . they seem according to Dr. Walshe, to affect a preference for the superfimal mrts of the organ. They are believed to be produced by the n^rt^on of^Vms i/the blood, or the lymphatic vessels The former mode of transmission is sometimes very clearly -h° by the occurrence of growing masses of cancer ' branches of the portal vein, starting from which they mfiltrate the organ Such growths are most often seen after primary cancer of the stomach or" intestines. Infection by the lymphatics is seen m cases where morbid growth creeps up into the liver by the tmme surrounding the portal vein and hepatic artery; and m some cases CEmcer^f the pylorus, duodenum, or head of the pancreas invades the liver by direct contiguity. Nevertheless, m most cases o secondary cancer the mode of conveyance of germs cannot be traced; it may, howcyer, occur in the keen subsequent to&,e«e of the mamma, kidney, uterus, or any other part, ihe secondary growth has been asserted by Waldeyer to take plane isolely &« the conveyed cells or germs ; but it is more probable that the liver Sr^cnf^ytlS^ in the intestines, butalso m a yer, remarkable form of 1™W‘«m°nr Cylindrical Epithelioma, Adenoma of the Liver xm markable form of tumour has at present been observed mveij few instances. In one which has faUe^^d£ d scattered tion of the editor numerous tumours were found scatter through the liver, which was greatly enlarged The, ■were firm, white, moist, and fairly vascular, they ^ nQ the surface central depression or umbilication, b -n sign of degeneration. No juice was obtained by of general their appearance was precisely that ot an nei