DEGENERATIONS OF THE DIVER. 629 granules are insoluble in acetic acid, and are in fact fatty, so that the condition ends in fatty degeneration. A similar simultaneous change is often seen in the renal epithelium. This form of dege- neration occurs in erysipelas, diphtheria, pyremia, and other specific fevers; also in diseases such as pneumonia, accompanied by fever. It has been explained simply as an effect of high temperature. (3.) Larclaceous, or Waxy (amyloid) Degeneration of the liver, pre- sents the same general features as in other organs, and here, too, is said to commence in the smaller arteries or capillaries ; but even if this be the case, the most prominent and characteristic alterations are seen in the hepatic cells. These are found enlarged, rounded, and indistinct in outline, translucent or hyaline in substance, the nucleus no longer perceptible. The individual cells become after a time fused together into irregular masses. The change always begins in that part of each acinus which immediately depends upon the hepatic artery and portal vein, that is, in the peripheral portion; while the central portion, or that connected with the hepatic vein, remains long unaffected. The small arterial branches become blocked, as is shown by the difficulty of injecting the organ through the artery. The fiver thus affected is almost always enlarged, sometimes very greatly; but this, perhaps, is partly dependent upon the fatty degeneration which almost always accompanies the lardaceous change. The edges are rounded, the substance extremely firm, tough, pale, and translucent. As the change seldom extends quite uniformly through the whole organ, the translucent portions are mottled with opaque white fatty patches. In rare cases, the larda- ceous change is said to occur only in isolated spots. Iodine produces in the fiver thus affected very characteristic markings, the degenerated portions being stained orange, or dark brown; and, from the peculiar distribution of the change, the acini are very clearly defined. Treated with sulphuric acid, the iodine- stained portions become nearly black. (4.) Pigmentary Degeneration of the fiver is described as the conse- quence of intermittent fevers, which produce a similar affection of the spleen. This condition is seldom seen in this country. It is described by Klebs as arising from deposition of black pigment in the portal capillaries, and in the interlobular branches of this vessel; later cm in the hepatic capillaries also. The fiver is at once distinguished by its dark, greyish brown, or nearly black colour; which is either general, or limited to the territory of the portal vein. The size is at first increased, but in the end atrophy always sets in, which may be considerable. The pigmentary matter consists of round or angular granules of a blackish colour, and is always contained within the vessels, either free, or enclosed m cells, some resembling ordinary leucocytes, some angular, like the epithelium of the splenic vessels. The source of this pigment is believed to be the spleen, where a similar change is constantly