17.3 CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOURS. Fig. 37. form ; but epithelial and other growths have been confounded under the same name. Scirrhus, or hard cancer, commonly appears as a knotty or un- even, pretty distinctly limited, very hard (stony) tumour. Its Surface or section is of a bluish or greyish white, and often presents a peculiar glossiness ; scarce any trace of vessels is ordinarily visible, except in spots, which are inflamed and softening. The adjacent tissues, especially the skin, when the growth is subcuta- neous, are more or less involved, and drawn inwards towards the tumour. In structure it consists essentially of a basis substance, more or less advanced in fibre-de- velopment, in which very various forms of cell growth are imbedded. Of the latter, it is utterly im- possible to give any general ac- count ; they may be bare nuclei, cells of most various aspect, vesicles ; granular globules; with these oil and diffused granulous matter are mingled in varying quantity. Glomeruli are often seen in fattily degenerating, or in inflamed parts; and parent cells, containing a secondary genera- tion, are occasionally present. The disposition of the fibres is very various, sometimes parallel to each other, sometimes radiating, often crossing at right or acute angles. An alveolar arrangement may, however, be regarded as the prevailing one in almost all specimens of scirrhus at the height of its development, and the alveoli are filled, as in encephaloid, with cells of very various shape and size. The chief difference observed on comparing these two forms of cancer is the greater predominance of cells in ence- phaloid, and of the stroma in scirrhus. In atrophied, or wasted specimens of scirrhus, the alveolar arrangement is often lost, and the cells are quite unrecognizable, ocirrhus yields some gelatine on boiling; less albumen and oil, but more saline matter, are contained in it than in encephaloid’ the growth of scirrhus is slow, the more so in proportion as its hbrous element predominates; it may then exist long without inducing the constitutional cachexia, or reproducing itself in any distant part, or oven affecting the lymphatic glands. The most common seats of scirrhus are the female breast, tho pyloric ex- tremity of the stomach, the rectum; it is usually the original formation in these, or in other parts; but gives rise to secondary Scirrhous tumour of cerebrum. (a) Cells. (b) Section of firm stroma.