•22S iot?lammation of the dtjba mates. -l TViP rlnra mater is often found black, generally becomes e diseased portion of bone; and it and sloughy, especially ove propagation of disease from one is a curious fact, illustrating 0f the morbid process, tissue to another without actual of the par6 petrosa that there need not neces 7 mater. The same affection, to induce the inflammation of ^ is Uable to induce purulent otorrhcea when^ of lon^i ^ . though other inflammation m the ^^ ^rulont discharges, may also give me injuries, accompanied by nfamly if not exclusively to it. This parWar fom of Plflemm g m man- met with in early Me, , . iniury. The dura mater in such a hood it is the resuit of externalre^ ^ g]mll in the bneof the case is found moie c o y vicinity than elsewhere, and the con- inflamed sinuses and them vimn wbiie their lining mem- SefsSnfd and deprived of its lustre and smoothness, as m affecting its internal or aiacmation of the arachnoidea parietalis. hy some authors as of very uniform false mem- It is accompanied by e pi -^ith points of hemorrhage, branes on this surface often ju-A ^ to distlnguish from which it will sometimes requn^a ,g hardly met rath layers of coagulated bloocl. -nvmmia, fevers, and tbe except in general 1 Joftened coagula in the like. It .is sometimes assoc t d to say which is the venous sinuses,. and it may no primitive affection. . ... a neculiar form of chronic inflamma- 1 Chronic Pacliymemngit^ A p by yirchow under the tion of the dura matei has oeen , • pt 1S especially 4“.offrrt*s a disease of old age, an inflammatory false membrane on appears to be the production ot an_ in ^ mater> This false mem- the inner or arachnoic sui -tg newly-formed vessels are very brane becomes vascularize ’ , ation '0f blood, either between bable to rupture, causrno - ^ Rlge between the layers of the the dura mater and this set up by the repeated false membrane itself. 1 afdonts are liable, may lu- •toots of St’otto anotlier, till »«■*• quently rccui, am * formed; or else a molt c 1 considerable thickness formation of a true meiungt hemorrhage may result m the to pon. apoplectic cyst. nf the dura mater from within, an i— “ ,t6 hraucs: . Virchow = “ Die Kranhhaftcn Geschwttlste,” vol i. p. 140.