CHOROID PLEXUS. 230 Encephalocele.—Before dismissing this subject we have to advert to a form of congenital hydrocephalus which has received the name of hernia cerebri, or encephalocele, in which, owing to a deficiency in the cranial walls, a portion of the brain and its membranes are protruded. It is analogous to the spma brnda. CHOROID PLEXUS. The venous rete mirabile of man, known by the name of the choroid plexus, appears in a measure to possess a vitahty mdepend- ent of the membrane, the pia mater, of which it. is an appendix. It is impossible to doubt that it plays a most important part m equalizing and balancing the circulation within the eramum, within the limits of health, and that equally its peculiar relation to the cavity in which it is suspended must give rise to important- variation Jin disease ; the physical laws of exosmosis and endosmo- II may, without any stretch of hypothesis, be supposed to operate with peculiar vigour, and it is not unreasonable to assume m toe r-Vmrnirl nlexus a powerful agent of secretion and absorption, lhe amount of blood Pin the plexus found after death varies much—at one time it is full and the vessels stand out in relicf, iith is collapsed and contains scarcely enough blood to colour it. There is no necessary relation between-the amount of vascularity or exu- rln Hon and tlie congestion or inflammation of tlie pia mater , thus we maV find the surface of the brain covered with a highly vascular pia mater while the choroid plexuses present an exsanguine appearance; acircumstance which rather confirms our view of thal“c0S;pMSde8.-The greater density of the coats of the vessels in the choroid than in other parts, may account for the rarity of their being the source of hemorrhage; mduiated y~Uo bodies are however? occasionally found in them which are referable to former ’effusion The morbid appearances most commonly found bn? Ed b?SLS*‘nSXrs, md oconaonilly appear to be a normal °tw corpora amylacea, but the term reagents Virchow calls them 1 - Tnn„s js more ap- concentric corpuscles, suggested by Dr. H. Jones, is more P PXid» thoso bodies (ssbicb or. known % giving or sometimes almost blue colour with iodine) other boOies t