CAUSES OF E'JEMORRHAGE. 65 has been observed in several instances in tumours of this kind ; and though it may be objected that this has been developed in superadded exudation-matter, yet it appears to us very much more probable that the persistent fibrine afforded the develop- mental nidus from its own substance. Ultimately degeneration and liquefaction of the enclosed blood may take place ; but these changes are very slow. Virchow found altered but recognizable blood-corpuscles in the contents of an hsematoma formed three years and-a-half before death. * The most remarkable hsema- tomata are probably those formed in the cerebral arachnoid. Flux and Dropsy.—We have already in part noticed these results of hypersemia, more particularly of the passive variety; but it seems desirable, on account of their great importance and frequency, to review them separately. The term flux may be properly applied to a discharge of various kinds taking place from a mucous surface, or from a glandular organ connected therewith ; the term dropsy to an effusion of fluid in serous or synovial cavi- ties, or in the areolar tissue. Fluxes will be active or passive, according to the kind of hypersemia which occasions them; the same can scarcely be said of dropsies ; the very great majority of them are passive. It is necessary to fix some limitation to the kind of fluid that may be said to constitute flux or dropsy, as there are many exudations which require to be distinguished on account of their different nature. A sero-purulent effusion, on tiie secretion of a serous cyst, would not come under the present head. Perhaps we shall be nearly correct if we say that a fluid similar to, but more aqueous than the liquor sanguinis, mingled in the case of flux, with a varying quantity of mucous secretion or desquamated epithelium, mature or immature; and if proceed- mg from a gland, mingled with more or less of its secretion, is that which properly belongs to this kind of morbid action. Active Flux. Of active fluxes we have a good example in miniature in a common sneeze ; the morbid sensation which arises in the bchneiderian membrane causes at the same time inhibitory paralysis of arteries and capillaries, and contraction of the expira- tory muscles. More considerable and much more enduring* is tbe hypereemia in the state of coryza, and the serous flux is of course much more prolonged. In this instance we have an opportunity of observing a quality of the fluid of a serous flux which is very common, viz., that it is especially acrid and irritating, so that it will sometimes excoriate the parts over which it flows. What gives it this quality' is not very apparent; it seems at least doubt- ful whether it u merely an excess of the natural saline ingredients of the blood. We should rather suppose it to be some organic acid salt, of new formation. The fluid under the microscope exhibits Very little trace of corpuscles, and is alkaline. .* v*rchow. “Die Krankhaften Geschwtilste,” Bd. I. s 144 givod a good account of htematoma. The whole chapter F