NEW GROWTHS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 423 immediately dependent upon that portion of the bowel are found : enlarged, hypersemic, and infiltrated with a creamy juice contain- ing' abundant lymph corpuscles. The change, like that in the intestinal glandular structures, is a lymphatic hyperplasia charac- terized by a profuse production of cells, as was long ago pointed out by John Goodsir. The newly-formed cells show, however, a marked tendency to degeneration and necrosis, which assimilates the process in some degree to scrofulous changes ; actual softening . and suppuration do not occur, hut yellow necrotic masses may be produced. Leuchcemic Enlargement of the Glands.—In the disease called leu- c chsemia, enlargement of some of the lymphatic glands is common if not constant. (See p. 74.) The enlargement presents generally the character of a pure hypertrophy, but in some oases, according • to Yirchow, the development may become heteroplastic, and the . growth spread beyond the glands into the neighbouring tissues. Another way of stating this is to say that leuchoemia sometimes ; accompanies the growth of infiltrating or infective lymphoma, and - sometimes not. The extension is probably to be attributed to the i migratory properties of leucocytes. These hypertrophies thus approximate to new growths proper, which we have now to consider. NEW GROWTHS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Primary new growths of the lymphatic glands are far less com- mon than secondary, the latter being dependent upon similar disease either in the part from which the gland derives its lymph • supply, or in some distant organ. _ Primary new growths are chiefly lymphoma and sarcoma. Car- cinoma in the form of encephaloid has also been often described, and in some two or three cases epithelioma is said to have occurred as a primary growth. Lymphoma or Lymphadenoma.—This growth begins with simple f enlargement or hyperplasia of the gland, and we cannot give any . precise definition to separate the tumours from simple enlarge- ments. The latter term becomes, however, inappropriate when the structure becomes different from that of a normal gland. The difference may consist in a greater development of the intercellular stroma leading to induration, and a more homogeneous, elastic, translucent consistency in the glf.nd, or in a preponderating development of cells, so that the tumour appears to be entirely cellular. The specially cellular forms are called by Yirchow, in accordance with his system, lymphosarcomata. They are often infective and infiltrate neighbouring parts, or are, in other words, malignant. He distinguishes a soft and a hard form, but we find it impossible to ■ separate the latter from other forms of enlargement. The former are a more distinct class.