CONGENITAL MALFORMATION OF THE HEART. 3G4 Peacock, not always the case; and on the other hand, the a^cular septum may he imperfect, or the foramen ovale unclosed, while the partition of the ventricles is entire. Openings at the part railed the undefended space are thought to be sometimes caused by disease, and not congenital. Deficiencies m the partitions of the auricles and ventricles usually coincide with other important anomalies, especially with some source of obstruction at the: pul- monic or other orifice, so that we may often regard the former as the consequence of the latter; but this does not always hold large apertures being sometimes found m the septa without other abnormalities of any kind. In these cases there hayeimually been no signs of obstruction or disorder of the circulatory system deficiencies in the auricular septum are also found unacccm- nanied by any other anomaly. This defect is sometimes coincident with imperfection of the foramen ovale and its valve, but some- times found at another part of the cavity. _ _ . Defects in the Septa, associated with Construction of the Orifices, or Misplacement of the Primary Vessels.-One of the c”“e®tTafn^ of malformation of the heart consists in the association of the.e two forms of anomaly. Obstruction to the flow of: blood fromrth right ventricle is the condition most frequently met with, ibis obstruction may occur, according to Dr. free edo-es of the valves of the pulmonary arteiy , (2) at the line of attachment of the valves to the fibrous zone; (3) m the’ coume of the milmonary artery itself; or (4) at the commencement of the infundibular portion of the right ventricle. There may_ aLo defect which can only be described as congenital smaUness of the nnlmnnarv arterv In all these cases we meet with the same associated defect7in other parts of the heart; viz., perfection of the inter-ventricular septum, towards the left, so that the righ ventricle ^ aives origin, wholly or in part, to the aorta. 1 he foramen ova S remains open in snelr cases, and “! from total occlusion (a condition geni 5 ^ ctlppre, which for more than a few days) to mere ° during life, and be may give rise to few or ambiguous hyper- unaccompanied by any other * triclo qjie latter changes trophy and dilatation of the right ventricle ine surv;v0 are (as might be expected) most mark^ n pemons for some years. There is usually more or less cjano. ,