162 MELANOSIS AND MELANOTIC TUMOURS'. 3d. i'.=M Melanotic deposit in eells of an engorged lung. Some of tlie cells contain oil drops. Fio. 81. and in new formations of any kind. The pigment is in the form of minute granules, or sometimes of almost dust-hke molecules. It very commonly occurs free, though the particles may be more or less closely massed together, but is very often also contained in the interior of cells. There is nothing at all peculiar in these pigment-containing cells. They seem to be simply the natural cells of the organ, or of the new growth in which the deposit has occurred, l ig- ment granules are seen in the same part, both free and contained in ceils, so that it is clear that their presence u. the cells is of no special import Rokitansky gives cells (often in the epithelial particles}, and in the connecting areolar tissue-. When contained in the air-cayities it is in all probability chiefly inhaled as carbonaceous matter, floating in the air. We examined some time ago the lungs of a man who had been a worker in a gunpowder manufactory, and found them to contain a very remarkable quantity of free black matter. We are inclined to think the latter is not unfrequently the case, and for the following reasons (1) It seems quite impossible to be- lieve that the very considerable quan- tity of black matter often found m the interlobular tissue of the lungs of old persons, should have proceeded from local congestions and extravasa- tions, especially when there is no p trace of previous inflammatory ac- | tion. (2) We are well acquaintedi -with the changes which hsematmei does undergo in the splenic tissue and in the renal t.bule., when blood escaped we here for meet commonly otoorrod the ^colo.m ^ 1'“r™“rSrpro"«Son ofW fiT %%£&&££ A | Branched connective-tissue corpus- cles from the pia mater of upper part of spinal cord, containing mucli pigment. The specimen was from a case of Addison’s disease, hut only showed an exaggeration ot tiie normal pigmentation of the part. (From an original preparation.}