INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. 583 differing c-liiefly in not having a sheath, as Eokitansky remarks, and also, as we think, in the peritoneum being less involved. In trifling cases, only a fold of the mucous membrane comes down, but, in the more serious, both the mucous and muscular tunics descend. The tumour thus formed is of a sausage or pyriform shape, pediculated by the contraction it undergoes at the anus, and having at its. extremity in the minor degrees a round central ■ orifice, and, in the greater, an eccentric fissure. The results of prolapsus ani (more properly recti), are not, for the most part, nearly so serious as those of invagination. In some cases, indeed, : strangulation takes place, the everted part swells to twice or ! thrice its proper size, assumes a red, purplish colour, with an appearance of ecchymosis and of impending gangrene. More often, even in inveterate cases, there is only a discharge from the . irritated or mucous membrane of a thin muco-sanguineous fluid, ' with, perhaps, some superficial ulceration. In some cases, the ■ epithelium of the mucous surface, from constant exposure - assumes a cuticular character. The affection is of common occur- - rence in children, for which Sir B. Brodie assigns the following i reason. The attachment of the rectum to the surrounding parts c no£ extend so high in children as in persons of mature age • ' reflection of the peritoneum takes place lower down • i and hence the rectum is more liable to be pushed out.” There must also be relaxation of the sphincter ani, which, if contracted v will prevent prolapsus. ’ INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. The muscular coat of the intestines is very rarely, if ever primarily the seat of inflammation, though it very often is in- volved by extension of the mischief from the serous or mucous tunics. IVe have, therefore, now to consider chiefly the condition i mucous membrane and its follicles when inflamed. It must be premised that no kind or amount of vascular injection can be accepted by itself as a decisive proof of the existence of inflamma- tion Obstruction to the free return of blood by the veins, accord- mg to the degree m which it exists, will produce ramiform ■ patchy or general injection; and the same cause will also give nse m the punctiform, which has been thought more characteristic 01 active hypercemia. Very marked injection also results from ere gravitation of the blood after death to the most depending Trousseau and Bigot found in dogs, which had been suspended after strangling^* a vertical position, the blood col- mciea in those parts of TO intestines which were the lowest giving the mucous membrane and its villi a deep red tinge and ^vasatingiteeif on the surface and in the submucous tissue effpefc, f 6u i 88 wel'« suspended in the reverse position, the same fleets took placo in those that were then the lowest. This hypo-