17 USES OE FIBRINE. in them. Andral mentions a case of apoplectic effusion in the subtance of the brain, in which—death having occurred many years after—a mass, of pale red colour and fibrous appearance, and traversed by numerous small blood vessels, anastomosing with those of the brain, was discovered. M. Louis has recorded the occurrence of a vascularized coagulum in a tuberculous cavity in the lungs; and many similar instances have been noticed, in which the fibrine of effused blood has evinced its capacity for organization. But how lowly is this organization, never in any known instance amounting to more than the formation of a fibrous tissue, more or less closely resembling the natural. This, almost of itself, is a proof that fibrine is not the peculiarly organizable and plastic element that it has been considered to be. It may also be said that albumen, which is the only other organizable constituent of the blood, shows no tendency, even when collected in large quantity, as in the fluid of ascites, to pass into any organized form; while fibrine, when effused, does at least assume the appearance of a lowly organized tissue. The condition, moreover, of the fibrine seems to be in some manner an indication of the vigour and health of the system. If it contracts well, and forms a firm, dense clot, there is reason so far to conclude that the constitution is sthenic and unbroken ; but if, on the contrary, the clot be soft and easily broken up, the system is probably in an > opposite condition. The above statements seem to amount to this, that fibrine is certainly capable of assuming a low type of organ- ization ; but they entirely fail to show that it is the special blood constituent which is applied to the nutrition of the different tissues, and that therefore its abundance is a sign of vigour and health. On the other side, the counter-evidence which we have to adduce is certainly of great force. Bleeding, which we saw to have a powerful effect in diminishing the quantity of red corpuscles, has none such upon the fibrine; nay, it rather seemed to tend to increase it. In Andral’s ninth case of articular rheumatism the fibrine at the second bleeding was 7, and at the third 6, while in the first it was 5-4. In the tenth case at the fourth bleeding it presented the extraordinary figure of 10-2 per 1,000, while in the first it did not amount to more than 6T. The globules, however were reduced by the three subsequent bleedings from 123T to 101. Starving also, instead of lessoning, was found to increase the quantity of fibrine. An increase in this element was found in meagre, half-starved horses, amounting to as much as 7 or 8 beyond the healthy mean; and in one case, where no food was given for four days, the quantity of fibrine was found increased from 5 to 9. On the other hand, the improvement of a species which we found to be marked by an increase in the proportion of globules, seems to be also characterized, though less strongly, by a diminution in the quantity of fibrino. The average quantity of fibrine in a flock of sheep of pure blood was determined by Andral to be 3T ; in a cross-bred flock, the average was only 2-8. The C