VESICULAR EMPHYSEMA. 463 prehension, because in general a plug that prevents the exit of air is even more likely to prevent its admission. It receives some support from the fact that when blood or other fluid is recently effused into the bronchi something like on emphysematous condi- tion is found, probably because the inspiratory movement sucks the foreign substance further and further in, so as to imprison the residual air. But as Dr. Gairdner has pointed out, the ultimate result of obstruction of bronchi is collapse of the corresponding portion of lung. Another inspiratory theory is that of Dr. Gairdner.* He has shown that emphysema of one part of the lung is always accom- panied by collapse, atrophy, or consolidation of some other part. In a word, one part occupies more than its normal volume while another occupies less. Thus while the chest expands to its normal extent during inspiration, the pressure of the air drawn in will distend those parts into which it enters, so as to compensate for the non-exjiansion of those parts into which it does not enter. In other words, a normal bulk of air being drawn in, if certain parts of the lung are impermeable, the pressure on the remaining permeable parts will be excessive. This explanation is unimpeachable as far as it goes, but it fails to explain the special distribution of emphysema in the lung, and its preponderance along the anterior edges and at the apex. These facts are accounted for on the expiratory theory, first propounded in this country by Sir W. Jenner (in 18o7)t and in Germany by Ziemmsen and Mendelsohn (in 1845). J The chief merit of this theory consists in showing how the uniform pressure of expiration may give rise to unequal tension in different parts of the lung. If any obstacle exists to the passage of air outwards, as in expiratoiy efforts with closed glottis (cough- ing or muscular exertion), the internal pressure in all parts will be increased, but it will only produce excessive expansion where the external resistance of the thoracic walls is least. This will be the case at the apex, where the lung runs out of the thorax, and along the anterior edge, where the elasticity of the costal cartilages and the mobility of' the sternum diminish the power of resistance. Hence these parts will, in excessive respiratory tension, suffer undue expansion. If any part of the lung is impermeable to air, the pressure of expiration will, like that of inspiration, cause excessive tension in those parts to which air has access. Adhesions of the pleura, preventing free movement of the lung, will also <nve rise indirectly to inequality of pressure. Over-distension once pro- duced will not be permanent, unless some changes occur in the distended lung tissue. The first, alteration is doubtless loss of elasticity, owing to which the dilated air spaces are not emptied. * “Brit, and Foreign Medico-Ohirurgical Review,” April, 1853, p 450 1871 Medip0'chiri,r8r- Trans->”1857 ; Reynolds's* * System of Medicine,"'vol. iii. p. 475 t “ Der Meclmnismus del- Respiration und Circulation.” Berlin, 1845.