SYPHILITIC PRODUCTS, OR SYPHILOMA. 204 mass of a greyish-pink colour, with either no interstitial fluid, or a very little of mucous character. It varies much in the degree o vascularity. It is onlv apparently separated by a distinct hue from neighbouring tissues. Close examination always shows a gradual transition between the two ; the formation of a capsule, if there u one, is always a secondary change. Parts of the organ m which it occurs may be completely replaced by the new growth, so as to produce isolated masses, even when it originates in a diffuse infil- tration. The most important elements of a. syphiloma are ce resembling leucocytes, and nuclei imbedded m a larger or smaller quantity of fibrous tissue. The cells are roundish, granulais from -01 to '03 m.m. in diameter, with usually one nucleus, large in proportion. The nuclei, whether separate or included m cells, have nothing characteristic about them; they preponderate m recently-formed growths and m the external parts of older forma tions. ^These elements are imbedded m a fibrous matrix in such a way that usually one cell, sometimes more, is contained m one Tmpartment. In recent growths the matrix does not amount to more than a very delicate stroma, like that of a lymphatic gland, and is only seen when the cells are at least partly removed. In later stages the amount of fibrous stroma becomes larger. Larger alveoh ff piesent, are often found to be divided m the same way into small Compartments. Each visible tumour- is made up of a number of smaller nodules. LolWed bv The type of structure just described was at first^^eved by Wagner to be peculiar to syphiloma; but it is plainly n . , shrce it isCssentially that exogenous or adenoid tissue which is often formed in chronic inflammation The °.^or' is nroducts from inflammatory is so difficult that some autbo - , Billroth') describe them under the latter term. Yirchow compares totht of granulations. The mode decay of these tumours is more distinctive than then structure. Involution of that of ordinary inflammatory products, the syptnloma oegms qiie atrophy is accompanied by more or less fatty degenera tion The central parts are first affected and become dry yeUowish tion is complete only a mass of hbr . There seems no evidence of loss of substance and con r. ' • jiery -^-pile the reason why growtli should not go 8 ,, 0f vliich we central parts are wasting; but probably g . f tho have evidence on tho outside of an old syphiloma, is a sign