ABNORMAL CONDITION’S OF THE BILIARY PASSAGES. 643 cases Dr. Budd is inclined to regard the hepatic cyst as the parent, and the others as originated from germs conveyed from it; but there is no reason to think that such a transference can take place within the same body, and it is more likely that several parasites or ova originally entered the body simultaneously. The peculiar form called echinococcus multiloeularis has already been mentioned (p. 219). _ It has never been seen in this country, and is confined, almost without exception, to South Germany and Switzerland. Distoma hepaticum, or the fluke, has been found in the human liver, and the ordinary parasite of the rabbit’s liver, the Pentas- tomum denticulatum, occurs very rarely; usually encapsuled and calcified. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BILIARY PASSAGES. Malformations.—The gall-bladder is sometimes wanting—in animals it has been found double; its shape may be variously deformed; its duct, as well as the common duct, may probably be impellorate. . The cystic and hepatic duct may remain separate, and communicate either both with the duodenum, or one with the duodenum and the other with the stomach. . Inflammation.—The mucous lining of the gall-bladder and ducts is often attacked with inflammation, which may extend from the duodenum, and spread upwards along the ducts. It is often of the catarrhal kind, and is essentially similar to the affection of the gastro-intestinal mucous surface; like it, subsiding after a time and leaving no traces of its existence behind. The effects it pro- duces will be those of vascular injection, some degree of tumefac- tion, shedding to a greater or less extent of the epithelium, and casting off of mucous corpuscles and various forms of immature epithelia, together with exudation of liquor muci of various degrees of viscidity and tenacity. The gall-bladder alone may be the seat oi acute idiopathic inflammation, or this maybe excited by un- healthy bile, or, perhaps, by the irritation of a calculus. The result oi such inflammation may be closure of the cystic duct, and conversion of the gall-bladder into an abscess. If the catarrhal inflammation, or that set up in any other way, attain a cer- tain degree of intensity, it causes the effusion of muco- purulent or purulent matter, and at the same time it seems to induce paralysis of the contractile coat of the biliary ducts • these tubes thus weakened, yield to the distending foroe within of the accumulating secretion, and become dilated at intervals into cyst-like pouches, tilled with muco-pus, tinged yellow or green by bile. The dilatation will, of course, be promoted, if the common duct, or the hepatic, is obstructed by a, calculus, or in any other way. After such pouches have existed a certain time, they become entirely cut off from the duct in which they originated, the tube becoming obliterated by