82 INFLAMMATION. statements we have verified by our own examination, and we believe they agree, so far as they go, with those of the best observers ; but certain additional features have been described by later observers, who have chosen the mesentery, rather than the foot of the frog, to study these phenomena, and have used various improved methods. The following account is mainly that of Cohnheim,* but owes much also to the admirable summary of Dr. Bui'don Sanderson, f When the mesentery of a frog (the animal being kept at rest by poisoning with curare) is exposed under the microscope, the external air acts as a stimulus, and produces inflammation. The first thing seen is a dilatation of the arteries, which reaches a climax in about ten or twelve hours, when they may be double their original diameter; there is also a simultaneous elongation. A similar dilatation of the veins, but without elongation, follows after an interval. The velocity of the current is increased for a short time, but then becomes constant. Thus far the phenomena are identical with those of active liyperremia. But in inflammation the following changes are observed :—The current becomes slower (sometimes suddenly), loses its normal central or axial character, the corpuscles moving along in the whole breadth of the vessels, both arteries and veins. In the latter, however, the white corpuscles show a peculiar tend- ency to loiter, or hug the walls, till the inner surface of the veins becomes lined with rows of sta- tionary white corpuscles, between which the current of blood con- tinues. Next occurs the extra- ordinary phenomenon which Cohnheim has re-discovered and brought into prominence. The white corpuscles begin to pene- trate the walls of the vein ; small from°a vein and capillary of the tadpole’s bud-like projections are seen on tail. (Caton, “Journal of Anatomy and ^ outer side, which graduallv Physiology,” vol. v., pi. iv., 1871.) ihe r . .... e . j "wall of the (branched) vein is seen to be 6Ql8Xg6 ‘WilllG Still connected penetrated by white corpuscles, while the the wall, till at length they red still move in the central s* ream. On , , , ,, « the outside of the capillary (above) red detach themselves and become corpuscles are seen projecting'. free leucocytes. Others, mean- while, leave the venous current, become attached to the wall, and penetrate it in the same way. The time necessary to set up this process varies much; sometimes it does not begin till ® Virchow's “Archiv,” 1867, vol. xl., p. 1. „ . + Holmes’s “ System of Surgery,” vol. V.: article “ Inflammation, p. <29, &c.