ENCHONDROMA. 855 scopio elements, as true cartilage. It occurs more frequently in bone than in any other physiological tissue ot the body, the bones of the fingers and toes being chiefly liable, though the ribs, vertebrae, and sternum are not exempt; and cases are recorded where the skull, the ilium, and the long bones have been attacked. The characters of euchondroma have already been described (p. 141). l'he enchondroma is nearly always radically cured by amputa- tion, but rarely gives rise to secondary growths. The tumour may originate within the substance or on the surface of the bone; the former being called central, the latter peripheral, enchondroma. The rapidity and extent of its growth varies, but generally it is of slow progress, and does not exceed the size ot an orange. When seated within the bone, the latter gradually Fig. 195. Enchondroma. Portion of the tumour removed from the lumbar vertebrse of a soldier, comisting of nodules of cartilage of various forms, with the microscopic features of foetal cartilage. In the centre of some of the nodules there are small por- tions of cancellous bone ; the centres of other's are softened. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, xiv. 2.) expands with the development of the tumour, yet it is unaccom- panied by pain or disorganization of the adjoining parts; when external to the bone it exhibits a lobulated arrangement, and is surrounded by a fibrous sheath. The central variety is met with chiefly in the bones of the hands and feet; it presents a semi-elastic feel, and, on section, the knife passes through a thin crackling shell of bone, and then exhibits a white cartilaginous mass, which is occasionally found to contain some small cells, while in some tumours there is an interlacement of fibrous tissue, in which the cartilage is imbedded, thus approxi- mating to fibro-cartilage. They may be solitary, or occur in large numbers in the same individual. A remarkable instance is recorded, in the “ Eeports of the Pathological Society of London,”* of a boy, in whom the slightest blow produced tumours of this kind. At the * 1848-19, p. 113.