39 ANAEMIA, SPAN7EMIA. diminution of the globules; in the case before mentioned, where the globules were only 27 per 1,000, the water was 886. The causes which produce anaemia and spamemia are—(1.) Losses of blood, whether natural or artificial, the red globules being thus diminished, their place is supplied in great degree only by the absorption of water. (2.) Profuse discharges of watery, mucous, or albuminous fluids, such as occur in aggravated leucorrhcea, diarrhoea, or in cases of cauliflower excrescence. In these it seems as’if the blood globules were melted down to supply the profuse drain, probably they perish, or are not reproduced fiom want of a proper nutrient fluid. (3.) Insufficient food; the effect of a greatly-improved diet increasing the amount of red corpuscles was very apparent in a case under our observation, in which iron had been previously administered, with some but not marked benefit, while on the improvement of the diet the amelioration was rapid. Too often, no doubt, this cause operates powerfully in inducing the anaemia so common among young females of the lower classes. (4.) Deprivation of fresh air and light; the effect of this can scarcely be over-estimated. Even the best food will not he converted into healthy blood if light and air are withheld, while a coarse and insufficient nutriment will not prevent a person from having a ruddy colour, if he he much in the open air. Of this we have frequent instances among our labouring population. (5.) An unhealthy condition of the blood, in consequence of which the existing blood globules are imperfectly nourished, and the development of new ones is hindered. Such is the cause of the anaemia in persons suffering from degeneration of the kidneys, from lead cachexia, the cancerous diathesis, perhaps the tuber- cular, and in some chlorotic cases. There can be no question that in many cases, as is well described by Dr. Williams, the ancemia is not the cause hut the result of the amenorrhcea. The suppression of the natural evacuation leaves the blood in an unpurified state, which is unfavourable to the development of healthy hsematine. In the same way rheumatism may prove a cause of anaemia, and in several of Andral’s cases the globules at the first bleeding were found not to be below the ordinary average. Mental anxiety may probably also he considered as a cause of this kind. Results of Ancemia.—Several instances have occurred in which the nutrition of the heart had suffered so much, and the organ become so debilitated, that sudden and fatal syncope was the result. The possibility of this should always be borne in mind, in treating a case of severe anaemia, and the patient should be enjoined to avoid sudden efforts, and to remain as quiet as possible until some degree of strength and tone is 'restored. It is a ques- tion of much interest, hut as yet we believe not determined, whether the increased action of the heart above described ever produces structural change. It would be thought likely that a weakened hollow organ, contracting repeatedly for a long time on the mass of blood poured into it, would be apt to yield some-