75 5 MALPOSITION'S OF THE UTERUS. been specially insisted upon by Huguier, wlio bas also drawn attention to the frequency with which the portion of the cervix situate above the vagina becomes affected. This hypertrophy and elongation may be so extreme as to give rise to a very large tumour, dragging down with it both bladder and rectum and pro- truding from the vulva, the body and fundus of the uterus retain- ing theh normal size and position. The secondary effect upon the prolapsed organ is, that it is irritated, and that its surface ulcerates ; or that it becomes the seat of further congestion and hypertrophy, and that its exposed surface becomes indurated and horny. Pro- lapsus is most frequently met with after the middle period of life ; instances of its occurrence before puberty are recorded by Dr. Ashwell, * and other authors. Dr. Ash well’s work also contains the history of three cases in which, during the whole period of pregnancy, the womb had lain partly or entirely external to the pudenda. In two of these the child was born while the entire uterus was beyond ttie vulva ; in one it had occupied that position for several months, in the other for eight years previous to conception. A very serious malposition, which comes on after parturition, spontaneously, or as the result of undue manual interference in removing the afterbirth, in an unusually distended or relaxed womb, is that known as inversion of the uterus. It consists in a greater or less descent of the fundus uteri into the cavity of the organ, and it may amount to a complete turning inside out. It is generally accompanied by very dangerous htemorrhage ;' if the organ is not at once replaced in its proper position, and the patient survives the immediate shock; as sometimes happens, the uterus becomes reduced in size, and the inconvenience sustained may be comparatively trifling. Burns details a case in which an inverted uterus was borne for twenty years, menstruation continuing during the whole period. Inversion is not, however, exclusively a sequel of parturition • it also occurs as a result of the influence of fibrous polypi, o-r0w- ing from the inner surface of the fundus. An unimpre<mated lnver ed uterus is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of burgeons of England (No. 2,654), showing the Fallopian tubes obliquely in the upper part of the vagina—the effect of a polypus growing from the fundus. Velpeau removed a polypus from a woman, who died soon after of peritonitis, and the uterus was found to have been completely inverted. The presence .of fibrous tumours in the substance of the uterus, or inclosed in the.cavity r when complicating pregnancy, favours the occurrence of inversion by disturbing the normal balanco of tho expulsive contractions I ?,ome a^°™ are inclined to attribute it to extreme shortness of the umbilical cord. Instances are recorded in which tho entire 1 averted uterus has been removed by ligature, or by tho knife • in ■ some cases inadvertently, owing to the tumour having been mis- A Practical Treatise on the Diseases peculiar to Women,” p. 541, London 1845 >