700 NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. colon and left kidney, is confirmed by Dr. Walshe. Rokitansky notices that cancer of the kidney often coexists with cancer of the testis on the same side ; the renal disease, we think, is most com- monly developed after that of the testis. “ In thirty-five cases of renal cancer, the disease,” Dr. Walshe says, “ affected both organs sixteen times, the right alone thirteen times, the left alone six.” The urine excreted by cancerous kidneys may long retain its natural characters. When, however, the growth softens and breaks down, blood, puriform matter, or cancerous detritus, may appear in the urine. Primary cancer in the kidney is usually an infiltrating growth, so that the form of the organ is often preserved. It may begin in the cortex, and gradually involve all but the pyramids ; or, on the other hand, begin at the papillae, within the pelvis, which it dilates, and increases till it is covered only by a shell of kidney substance, sometimes distinctly separable. In such cases it may grow down into the pelvis and ureter. It gives rise, rather fre- quently, to cancerous thrombosis of the renal vein, and the can- cerous thrombus may extend into the vena cava, whence meta- stasis to the lungs easily results. Infection of the lymphatic glands and neighbouring organs may of course occur, but does not hap- pen so often. Secondary cancer occurs usually in several nodules, and commonly in both kidneys at once. With regard to the histology of primary renal cancer, it appears to be always true cancer, with alveolar structure and epithelioid cells. According to the most recent investigations it is said to start from the epithelium of the tubes, and to be in the first instance a sort of adenoma, or glandular structure.* Entozoa occurring in the kidney are the echinococcus and eysti- cercus. The so-called hydatids from the first of these have, in rare cases, been passed with the urine. The adipose tissue, in which the kidney lies imbedded, may, according to Rokitansky, increase to such a degree as to penetrate by the liilus into the substance of the organ, impede its nutrition, and induce a kind of atrophy. Rokitansky states that, in the highest degree of this change, the kidney presents the appearance of a mere mass of fat, without the slightest traces of renal organ- ization ; the urinary passages at the same time being atrophied and obliterated. But in all such cases it is impossible to say that the atrophy of the kidney was not the primary condition, and led to increase of the surrounding tissue. The capsule of the kidney may be inflamed, in consequence of which fibroid thickening may take place, and more or less of induration, atrophy, and obliteration of the organ. The cortical substance is especially apt to be involved, and the surface is some- times overspread with purulent matter, while the tissue itself becomes sloughy or gangrenous, or is only congested and softened. Congenital Cysts.—The congenital cystic kidney, different from * Klebs, “Path. Anat.,” p. 614. Waldeyer, “Virch. Archiv.,” sli.