(ioo ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SFLEEN. translucent, as if infiltrated with waxy material, but is never stained by iodine. * Lardaceous degeneration of the spleen frequently occurs simul- taneously with the same disease in other viscera. It usually com- mences in the Malpighian corpuscles, which become enlarged into translucent granulations an eighth of an inch or more in diameter, miich resembling grains of sago, whence the spleen in this con- dition has been called the “sago spleen.” In later stages the whole structure becomes infiltrated with translucent material, and in both cases the substance is firm, tough, and amemic. There is a constant, and sometimes very considerable, increase of size. Iodine produces the characteristic reddish-brown colour. Atrophy of the spleen most commonly occurs as a senile change but is also found independently of old age in various wasting diseases, especially those accompanied by ansemia, unless there happen to be any disease of the organ. The size of the organ is aiso reduced, probably by pressure, in abundant peritoneal exuda- tion ; and m chronic peritonitis, unless there be any other condi- tion tending to enlarge it. It would seem as if even acute perito- mtis had some tendency to prevent enlargement of the spleen which might otherwise occur in some febrile diseases. Atrophic spleens differ much in colour, vascularity, and consistence, but are frequently more fibrous than natural. Hypera-mw of the spleen occurs both from mechanical causes and from the causes enumerated as producing acute enlargement’. Itokitansky remarks that though it occurs in organic diseases of the heart and m hepatic obstructions, it does not amount to the extent, nor take place so frequently as might be expected, and he accounts for this by the deranged circulating fluid having no a vk1 fT tlssue1 oi spleen. Distension of the abdomen with fluid appears to have some effect in preventing the swelling and hyperaemia which would otherwise occur. In the bodies of >!]',?nTinedTL)el'mUS itlie sPle®ni is ,f°und gorged and distended with blood. This blood, no doubt, might all be washed out by infectin'* the vessels with water, and the organ would return to its normal mze ; but when congestion comes to be permanent, the exudation which takes place in the red parenchyma causes multiplication of phied°rmal C°18 and nuclel’ aud tde spleen is then truly hypertro- An anasmic state of the spleen is observed in the highest decree when the parenchyma is infiltrated with lardaceous matter before noticed; but it also exists in many atrophic conditions, as in old • Wounds and Ruptures of the spleen occasionally happen from LnJip1Cf\pr accidents- dhe 0,dy point of interest respecting these is, that there appears, from the observations of Mr. Athol Johnson^ • Case:, maybe found reported in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol iv n 177- 259 , vol XI. p. 2o7 vol. xi. pp. 247, 269; vol. xix. p. 401: ixii n 279P' aL„\- ? Vx' ?• Hospital Reports,” Third Series, vol. ii„ by Dr Wilks P' 278' ^Isom Guy’s