2(53 AN7EMIC CONDITIONS OP THE BRAIN. The converse of the condition which we have just been con- sidering, ancemia, is undoubtedly one of considerable importance, and one that may be assumed to be the cause of numerous morbid conditions; but we have still greater difficulty in determining its existence than that of congestion of the brain. Where it exists the brain presents a generally pallid appearance, and especially the white matter is remarkably deficient in red spots, and more dead-white than normally. It is an important element in the diseases termed white softening and oedema of the brain, which, therefore, especially as in their turn they may give rise to apoplectic effusion, may appropriately be treated of in this place. From what has been said before, it will be at once seen that ancemia of the brain must be accompanied by fulness of the serous and lymphatic channels ; that is, by a great abundance of fluid both within the cerebral cavities and generally infiltrated through the brain substance round the vessels; hence the con- dition will be generally one of cedema. (Edema of the brain is a common condition of the organ met with in ataxic conditions, such as typhus, or puerperal disease, in exanthemata, heart disease, and anasarca. It is common in insanity. Pinel * has described it as the pathological condition characteristic of stupor, or acute dementia. On cutting into a brain thus affected the tissue is found pallid, and the water •drips from it, showing a complete cedematous imbibition, The infiltra- tion causes an enlargement of the brain, and consequent flattening of the convolutions, and the pure form of simple oedema is thus distinguished from those in which it is combined with atrophy. The cerebral substance may present various degrees of diminished consistency, till a condition is reached which has been described as white softening. White Softening.—This is a condition often described, but, it must be confessed, hardly capable of being defined in a perfectly accurate manner, except as an extreme form of cedema. In estimating the degree of this change, it is important to bear in mind the physiological variations in the density of the brain, according to the age of the individual.! It is naturally very soft in infancy, and progressively becomes firmer with the advance of years; and, in old age, as we find a tendency to rigidity of the soft tissues, and to ossification of the cartilages, we discover the brain to present the physiological extreme of density and tough- ness. The diminished density and consistency or cohesion of a portion of, or the entire brain, constitutes the disease in ques- * “ TraitC de Pathologie Cdrfibrale,” p. 257. + See a paper by Dr. Sankey on the “ Specific Gravity of the Brain," and Foreign Jledico-Chirurgical Review,” Jan. 1853. in the “ British