388 DISTRIBUTION OF ANEURISMS. process by which tho tumour is removed. In the latter cases a gradual absorption of its contents takes place, the tumour becomes harder and smaller, and the establishment of a collateral circulation restores the balance of the circulation. Distribution of Aneurisms.—Before quitting the subject of aneurism, we must allude to certain peculiarities in connection with its occurrence in different parts of the arterial system. We have seen that aneurisms are almost limited to arteries of the largest size ; in smaller arteries, as in the radial and ulnar or tibials, they are rarely met with. They are altogether extremely rare in the upper extremity, they here almost invariably arise from carelessness in venesection, especially if, as on the Continent, a spring-lancet is employed. In such a case the result generally is a communication between the brachial artery and a cubital vein, especially the basilic, forming what is called varicose aneurism. Cases of spontaneous aneurism of the upper extremity are, how- ever, occasionally met with. One recorded by Dr. J. W. Ogle is ascribed by him to the effects of embolism. The smallest arteries in which spontaneous aneurism is met with are the coronary of the heart and the cerebral. An instance of the former, which is extremely rare, is reported in the Records of the Pathological Society for 1848; it was discovered by Dr. Peacock in a man aged fifty-one, who had presented no symptoms of cardiac disease before death. The tumour occupied the left coronary artery, and was about the size of a pigeon’s egg, containing lacerated coagula, which were intimately adherent to the lining membrane. There was some atheroma in the aorta. Dr. J. W. Ogle has collected a certain number of similar instances, in most of which the aneurism burst into the pericardium.* _ . Intracranial Aneurism.—Aneurism of the cerebral arteries, though not common, has of late been shown to be more frequent than was at one time supposed. It is generally seated at or near some part of the circle of Willis; it may attain the size of a walnut, and more, though it is commonly smaller; it is met with chiefly between the age of forty and fifty. Here, too, the male sex presents a much greater liability than the female ; showmg that the former manifestly possess a'marked tendency to the disease, and that the increased tendency is not due to accidental circumstances. \\e find two good Distances of aneurism of the cerebral arteries m the Reports of the Pathological Society, presented by Dr. Haref and Dr RoeJ ; the one in the left posterior communicating artery, the other in the anterior cerebral; this one of unusual size, being as large as a hen’s egg, had caused partial absorption of the sphenoid bone upon which it rested, and a flattening of the adjoining portion* of the brain. Both the cases alluded to occurred in females ; and 0 “ St. George’s Hospital Reports,” 1867, p. 285. Dr. Cn«p lection of cases. ” Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1S71, \ol. xxu. p. It ■ + Report, 1819-50, p. 169. t Ibid. lSSu-51, p. 16. has made a similar col-