734 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE VE8ICUL/E SEMIN ALES. elongated prepuce is continuous at a navel-like opening in the I skin of the surface of the tumour. Common hypertrophy of the integument of the scrotum some- times occurs; in this there is no alteration of the subcutaneous tissue. Epithelioma is the common form in which cancer appears in the i scrotum, constituting what is generally called chimney »v;eeptr\ I cancer, on account of its being apparently produced by the contact I of soot. It is very remarkable that the disease may not appear till I many years after the person has ceased entirely to be in any way ; exposed to the influence of soot. Mr. Curling mentions a case in | which a man, after having been a sweep, went to sea, and led a sailor’s life for nineteen years before the disease made its appear- ‘ ance. It is, of course, possible that, in these and similar cases, ! the cancerous development and the sooty employment were mere coincidences. The disease advances by invading the adjacent tissues, and thus produces fearful ulceration, extending even to the groin and thigh, and destroying life by perforating the coats of some of the large vessels. Wide diffusion of the disease through- out the body is happily rare, but the lymphatic glands in the groin not unfrequently become) affected. Histologically, scrotal cancer consists of coarse squamous epithelium, in masses imbedded in a slight stroma of connective tissue, and having large “ bird’s-nest ” collections of epithelial scales in rich abundance. A case of melanotic cancer of the scrotum has been observed by Mr. Curling, and other forms of new growth,_ including fibroma and sarcoma, have been occasionally met with in this region. Dermoid cysts also occur here. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VESICTTHE SEMLNALES. Chronic catarrhal inflammation not uncommonly attacks the vesiculee, causing tumefaction of their mucous membrane, secretion of unhealthy mucus, dilatation of the cavity, and thickening of its parietes. Ulcerative destruction of the mucous membrane occasionally takes place, the result of which may be thickening of the parietes (the morbid action having subsided), or perforation, with formation of abscess in the adjacent parts. The vesicuke seminales are occasionally affected by scrofulous inflammation, in which the tubes are distended with the fatty products of the epithelial proliferation, whilst the intertubular connective tissue is but little altered. Professor Humphry has also described an enlargement, with induration of these bodies in old age, producing symptoms simu- lating those of enlarged prostate, and presenting the appearances of scirrhous carcinoma. In such cases, the seat of the change n the connective tissue, which is extensively indurated and thickened without much alteration being noticeable in the tubes, bcarce