CESTOID PAEASITES. 214 by circular stripe and “shallow longitudinal furrows;” at its pos- terior extremity it has a funnel-shaped pouch, from which a slender penis protrudes. The female has a straighter and more obtuse tail, and at one or two inches’ distance from it the vulva. It inhabits the kidneys, and causes more or less destruction ot this organ. (9) Anchylostomum duodenale, a round worm, a quarter to half an inch long, inhabits in large numbers the duodenum and jejunum, producing haemorrhage, anaemia, and the so-called “ Egyptian chlorosis.” It occurs in Italy, Egypt, and the tropics.* Another Nematoid parasite has been described by Lewis, under the name of Filaria sanguinis hominis as occurring in India, in the blood of persons suffering from a peculiar urinary affection called chyluria, but sometimes giving rise to no symptoms whatever. It is a small round worm, about ^in. long, and -jxooin. in its greatest transverse diameter, of the order Xernatoda and family Eilaridpe. They are sometimes found in enormous numbers in the blood, and always also in the urine.t _ . . Among the frematoda we are acquainted with four species ox distoma, which have been found, though rarely, in the human subject. The D. liepaticum and D. lanceolatum are both flat lancet- shaped worms, of a yellow-white colour, with two suckers, one of which situated at the head forms the mouth, the other is on the abdomen, and is imperforate. The orifice of the sexual organs lies between these two. They are hermaphrodite. The D. hepaticum is the larger, being eight to fourteen lines in length, and from one and three-quarters to six lines in breadth; its intestinal canal is ramified. The D. lanceolatum, is only two to four lines long and one broad; its intestine is bifurcated. They have been found m the gall bladder and ducts, and in the vena port® and its branches. Distoma oculi humani is of minute size, and has been found in the fluid surrounding a cataractous lens. To the same order belongs the Distoma hcematobium or Bilharzxc hcematobia, a parasite which lives_ in the blood itself, and feeds on its corpuscular elements. It gives rise to a peculiar form o heematuria, especially prevalent in Africa. It was first described by Bilharz in 1851; and has been studied in this country by Dr. J. Harley.]: CESTOID PAEASITES. General History of Tapeworms.—Before describing the special forms belonging to this order, which includes both the Hat intestinal worms or tapeworms, and the cystic-parasites or bladder worms, we must give some account of then- history and development, • For figure see Weber; “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1SG7, vol. xvui. p. 274, plate viii. FTt!r! Lewis, M.B., “ On a Hrematozoon inhabiting Human Blood.” Calcutta, lbi2. t “ Mcd.-Cliir. Trans.,” xlvii. 55, lii. 379.