DILATATION OF TIDE BRONCHI. 452 mucous membrane, such as is produced in immense quantity in the intestinal follicles in cases ot “ abdominal typhus )«•«., typhoid fever). The submucous tissues may be variously affected m the bronchi, as in air-passages already considered. The cartilaginous rings may undergo a process of softening or become ossified, in the latter case, they become brittle, and break ; they then either pro- ject like fish-bones, as Andral observes, into the bronchial cavity, or, becoming detached, are expectorated. DILATATION OF THE BRONCHI. Many of the lesions to -which -we have adverted may co-operate in producing a morbid condition of the bronchi, to -which Laennec -was the first to draw attention, and which, though of extreme importance in a nosological point of view, has hitherto been treated 1 rather as a question affect- Pig. 100. ing the pathologist than the practitioner. It is dilatation of the bronchi or bronchiec- tasis.* By Laennec it was attributed exclusively to an accumulation of mucus in the ramifications of the dilated portion: but, as Dr. C. J. B. Williams justly observes, if this were the cause we should not, as we do, hear the air penetrate freely into the dilated portions. There may, undoubtedly, be various effi- cient, causes at play in the production of this diseased state, both of a mechanical and of a more dynamical character. The most pal- pable instance of the former is presented to us in the case Dilated bronchi, ft om a female aged fifty- two who had suffered from chrome pneu- monia and bronchitis for tin ee years; the pulmonary tissue intervening between the bronchi was much condensed. of an enlarged bronchial eland whether it contains cretaceous or simply scrofulous matter, compressing a bronchus. Here, the free exit of the respired atmo- sphere being prevented, an accumulation of am might be supposed • Ftvmoloc-V,—/3p<Wx«,, the bronchi, and lKraait, dilatation, from T ' We mavtake this opportunity of remarking upon the distinction which ‘‘’fbl b Imvehrtdy made between bronchia and bronchi; it is a source of some confusion, an souceh warranted by tlieir etymology of the words ; if a diminution is required, the ic-i-m broncliule is more convenient, and not liable to be mistaken.