CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, AND SCROFULOUS GLANDS. 421 and the channel of the bronchi, and may be thus evacuated by expectoration. The chalky concretions find their way out occasion- ally in the same manner. A remarkable instance of death being caused by the impaction of the cretaceous contents of a bronchial . gland in the bronchi, is detailed by Dr. Tice in the twenty-sixth volume of the “ Medico-Chirurgieal Transactions.” Caseous glands are very frequently found in the bodies of persons dying of phthisis, and hence it has been thought that tuberculosis is a secondary disease resulting from the absorption of this caseous • substance, which is more often seen in glands than elsewhere. The editor of this work observed a case where, by subsequent softening of a scrofulous gland, some of this material was introduced into the superior vena cava; producing, first, local coagulation and softening of the thrombus; secondly, general pyaemia and suppuration in the joints. Tubercular Olancls.—Changes due to the production of tubercle in the glands are seen both in the acute and chronic condition. The : former occur in cases of acute tuberculosis. The glands are then found, highly vascular, succulent, and more or less enlarged, while . greyish miliary tubercles may sometimes be seen in them. Adore often we find a marbled or mottled appearance, parts of the gland being opaque and white, while the remainder is vascular. The - same whiteness and opacity may extend over the whole gland, and be succeeded by dry necrosis or caseation ; but another change is also possible, and according to Virchow, frequent; which consists in induration and production of fibroid tissue, accompanied by thickening of the capsule, and adhesive inflammation of the sur- rounding^ tissue; the caseous change being then limited to isolated > spots. Ulceration, like that of scrofulous glands, is, however, possible, and so is calcification ; a formation of peculiar concentric calcareous corpuscles has also been observed by Virchow and ' Sehiippel. The histology of tubercular glands is a subject on which some I difference of opinion exists. It is described by Virchow * some- what as follows. The production of tubercles takes place in the . fibrous septa of the gland, not in the follicles, the latter parts being unaffected, or simply hyperplastic, and it thus contrasts with the changes in scrofulous glands which are chiefly in the follicles. The tubercles are of what Virchow has distinguished as the fibrous variety; they contain few round lymphoid cells, but are on the contrary made up of cells resembling epithelium and large many- nucleated or myeloid cells, so as even to recall a myeloid tumour. : beside this there is much general proliferation of the connective tissue, which does not necesarily follow, but may even precede the development of the tubercle. More recently Sehiippel f has given a very different account of * ^Krankh. GeschwUlste,” vol. ii. p. 672. “t ynter8uchungen iiber Lymphdrllsen-tuberculose.” ■urnden Medical Record,” vol. i., Nos. 3 and 4, 1873. Tubingen, 1871, etc.; see