525 PLETTRITIS. • symptoms detailed are not always so marked as to render the diagnosis easy. Laennec observes, that at the epoch at which we ought to operate, the affected side, though full of pus, is less : than the healthy side, owing to this circumstance, and the conse- ! quent falling in of the parietes. Permanent Adhesions.— The secondary changes resulting from - firm adhesion being formed, are of a different character. If they . have been associated with previous extensive effusion, which has b become absorbed, the degree to which the compressed lung will r regain its former functions depends upon the duration of its con- r: finement, and upon the firmness of the adhesions. The immediate consequence of the absorption was first shown by Laennec to be a falling-in of the affected side, owing to the expansion of the ..lung not taking place in the ratio of the removal of the liquid, and the firmer the adhesions are at given points, the more will i. this tendency be promoted by their increasing density and con- traction. The depression is generally most marked at the lower pait oi the thorax, about the seventh and eighth ribs; and, owing • to the consequent atrophy of the respiratory muscles of the affected -:sicle the equilibrium is destroyed, and the spinal column is deprived ot its symmetrical support; from this a curvature of the spine results the convex margin of which is directed towards the healthy - side. The shoulder of the diseased side sinks in proportion. A .talhng-m of the upper portion of the thorax, or of the infra- clavicuiar region, is commonly noticed as an accompaniment of phthisis, consequent upon the formation of extensive cavities, and the coincident thickening and contraction of the pleura, to which we have alluded when speaking of tubercular disease of the lungs. Ihe pleural covering often becomes ultimately not only thick but very dense although in the early stages it will be found highly rceaematous and almost gelatinous in appearance. Fleural adhesions are so common as to be the rule in persons who have reached or passed middle life. They are not necessarily r,lLreSU t °V°flammation properly so-called, but of the hyper- ptashc or proliferative processes which appear to be almost normal on serous surfaces.* middhf P™?livity ,t0 pleuritis is greatest about the in- slj ?V.fd °f lfV.!.ld dl™f£es m the ascending and descend- er wf u ag°- ?6fore tho fafth year it; is not often met with rarnimn .obsei'ves that acute idiopathic pleurisy, unconnected with °r m "'hlch th? mflammation of the lung bears but a WmrlVrrrhr t0 ^at 0f the Plo41'a’ is certainly an un- cal nf e du?;lng the first y°ars of childhood, and as a to us that ^ ltS rant7 18 extrGme: ;ln(1 xt certainly has appeared lencv inLi fc8 ° pneumonm’ there 18 decidedly a less ten- ,h0„M ,> y 10 to excite Pleuritic inflammation than wo mould observe in corresponding affections at a later period! See Klein, “ The Lymphatic System.’ Part I. London, 1873.