53 ACTIVE HYPER.EMIA—DETERMINATION OE BLOOD. ■ state will soon supervene, in which the hypercemia may yet further i increase, and the natural energy be still more diminished, till, I together with symptoms of disordered and erring action, m flam- i mation, or some other result of hypersemia occurs. The pheno- imena we have alluded to are of every-day occurrence. No doubt (can exist about their reality, though different opinions may be i entertained as to how they should be interpreted. We shall im- i mediately proceed to consider more closely the different views that 1 have been advanced, but we would ask especial attention to this j point which we have dwelt on, viz., that in one form of active hyperremia the vigour of the tissues for vital action is increased, ■ while, in the other, it is diminished. In the one the hypersemia : supplies a want, in the other imposes a burden. Conditions of Normal Circulation.—Now, before we enter on the (consideration of the mode in which active hypersemia is brought about, let us refer shortly to one or two physiological points, ’ which must form the very basis of all our attempts at explana- t tion of the phenomena. All tissues may be regarded as consisting i of vessels, nerves, and the proper elements of the tissue. The 'vessels, it is true, may be more or less closely woven up with tthe tissue, or even may not actually penetrate it, but still they -are essential. The nerves convey an influence which may affect tthe blood-vessels or the tissue. The elements of the tissue, be Ithey cells, or originally derived from cells, have certain special < endowments, which, when called into action, increase the flow of I blood to the part; at least this seems only another form of ’ putting the undoubted fact—that exercise of a part causes more I blood to flow thither. The blood-vessels consist of arteries, capillaries, and veins. The arteries have a truly contractile coat, ■ which, under some kinds of stimulation, may even produce obli- ' teration of the channel. This contractile coat is composed of organic muscular fibre. It possesses, so far as we know, no other property than that of contracting. There is not the least reason to suppose that it has any power of active dilatation. * The capillaries have a simple, homogeneous, membranous wall, in contact with the tissue proper of the parts. It does not appear that this possesses any contractility. It does, however, possess a retentive power, which varies remarkably in different organs compare, for instance, the renal, the pulmonary, and the muscular capillaries—and is capable of being greatly impaired by morbid influences/ The contractility of the veins has generally been con- • sidered much more doubtful than that of the arteries. Weber did not find them respond to the stimulus of cold as the arteries did. . Air. "Wharton Jones, admitting that they do undergo some variation iin size, says that the contraction or dilatation is very small in comparison with that which the arteries undergo. Professor .Paget’s observation seems conclusive as the contraction of both Drs. Pettigrew and Schiff contend, however, for the affirmative.