CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OYABIES. I I o into the cavity, or else are attached to the wall in the form of crescentic folds, or else are more or less flattened against the wall and adherent to it. It is plain that in such a specimen the large cavity has arisen from the confluence of several smaller ones, the walls of which have become reduced to incomplete partitions. These may again be reduced to mere bands crossing the cavity, and inserted into a part of the wall which, by its thickness, shows its original compound character. (6.) A second form of compound cyst is that in which we find, on the inner wall of the larger cyst, an immense number of small cavities, sometimes arranged in groups, with very thin walls, con- taining either clear serous fluid, or else gelatinous, honey-like matter. A group of such smaller cysts sometimes projects from a single point in the inner wall of the larger, forming by absorption of the partitions a reticulated structure, containing pellucid or gelatinous fluid. Such a mass may, in great part, fill the larger cyst; and it is thought that, by completely filling it, the reticu- lated appearance of some large cysts is produced. Again, a single secondary cyst may, in like manner, grow out from the wall of the primary till it completely fills it. As this secondary cyst may be affected in the same way, of course great complexity may lesult. Papillary excrescences sometimes grow from the wall of the cyst, and project into the interior. The papillary terminations may be either solid, or themselves cystic. These growths may completely fill the cyst, and even rupture its wall, and project into the peritoneal cavity. The wall of the original cyst may then be found at the base, or peduncle, of the papillary growth, but may be quite insignificant when compared with the luxuriant development of the latter. Dr. Wilson Fox attributes to the union and fusion of such papillary outgrowths the formation of secondary cysts. (c.) In the above-mentioned variations one cyst preponderates over the others, or seems to have been formed primarily ; but in other cases there is a more uniform development of several, so that it appears a section made of many cavities nearly equal in size, the partitions of which may be more or less fused, and showing in their walls the development of new cysts. This appearance forms a transition to a still more uniform arrangement, when the whole of the ovary is found transformed into a multiiocular structure, with very numerous closed spaces, mostly minute, not larger than a hemp-seed, containing fluid or gelatinous matter. This change usually affects both ovaries, does not go to an excessive size, and was formerly called alveolar degeneration of the ovary. The above-mentioned appearances are by no means exclusive of one another. They may occur simultaneously, and by their com- bination produce an infinite variety and complexity of appearance in ovarian cysts—which is heightened by such variations as are ob- viously possible—in size, thickness of the walls, and so forth. Contents of the Cysts.—In some cases this is clear, serous fluid, colourless or yellow ; from this all transitions are found, up to thick