115 PREMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. ■ seem to be invariably occupied, indeed distended by a soft pulpy y yellowish material, or by something more like ordinary coagulum, consisting merely of disintegrated fibrine, with debris only of cells.” Similar coagula have been found in small vessels leading - - Q : to diseased patches in other organs. Sometimes a comparatively li large arterial branch is found blocked with similar material; and . a proportionately large mass of tissue in a state of inflammation or : necrosis. With respect to the abscesses in parts other than the I' lungs, it must be admitted that their origin is not so easily explained on the embolic theory ; but in most cases we can trace • the three stages of vascular obstruction, extreme congestion or iinfarction, and necrosis or suppuration. The obstruction has, however, quite as much the appearance of arising from simple coagulation as from an embolic process. Changes in the veins of the originally diseased parts.—Some of these . are most often, though not always found inflamed, and with their ■ walls indurated, and containing coagula, which resemble those ■ just described in the pulmonary vessels, adherent to the walls, more or less decolorized, and usually in part at least softened down internally to a “ reddish or yellowish puriform pulp or fluid,” consisting generally of disintegrated fibrin. Dr. Bristowe has found both these and the corresponding arterial clots to con- tain in a few cases true pus, which is not surprising, though • certainly exceptional. The phenomena are in fact those of .thrombosis (which will be discussed in another part of this work), or local coagulation of blood, followed in this case bv rapid disintegration of the clot, and accompanied by inflammation of the walls of the vein. Comparing the details of morbid anatomy, just given, with the ■ theory before enunciated, it is plain that they correspond very 1 closely, and that, so far as pymmic abscesses, especially in the I lungs, are concerned, the embolic theory is a sufficient explanation of their occurrence. Softening of the vein clots causes disinte- grated fibrin to pass into the circulation, which then obstructs the pulmonary circulation, and excites inflammation there. Cer- : tain difficulties, however, have been raised as to the occurrence of k abscesses in other parts than the lungs, when the latter are free. How can the particles which cause suppuration pass through the lungs, and cause capillary obstruction and its consequences in other parts, as for instance, the liver F O. Weber attempted to answer this question by experiment, and found that as a matter of fact he could inject into the veins flocculent pus, so fine that it passed through the pulmonary capillaries, and was arrested in the systemic circulation, whore (e.g., in the liver) it produced capillary embolism, proved by microscopic examination, and abscess men there is coagulation in the pulmonary capillaries it is also known lnat this may extend into the pulmonary veins, and thus n second set of thrombi be produced. The other points in the morbid anatomy of pycoinia also admit of explanation to some