TUBERCULAR DISEASE OF THE INTESTINES. 595 disease is produced by swallowing morbid products derived from phthisical lungs, a hypothesis also supported by the fact that tubercle in the intestines tends so strongly to spread downwards. Peritoneal tubercle seems to have but little tendency to produce the same disease on the mucous surface. Distinction between Tubercular and Typhoid Intestinal Ulcers. Since these are both found in the same parts of the intestine, and have many points of similarity, it is important to be able to dis- tinguish them, but sometimes difficult. The chief points to be regarded are the following :—(1) Form. Typhoid ulcers are more often oval, with the long axis in the direction of the bowel, corre- sponding to the shape of the Peyer’s patches, and even when they start from the solitary glands, extend down rather than round the intestine. They do not often extend beyond the boundary of a Peyer's patch. These characters, however, only hold good in comparatively recent ulcers ; when they have existed a long time (two months or more from the commencement of the fever) their shape may become very irregular. Tubercular ulcers, on the other hand, seldom correspond in outline to the Peyer’s patches, and, if oval, the long axis of the ellipse more often goes round the intes- tine than down it. They often extend beyond the margin of the patch, even without involving the whole of it. When starting from the solitary glands they extend in a quite irregular manner. Their extension seems in fact to be determined rather by the course of the blood vessels, than by the glandular structures, and, as the former encircle the intestine, the ulcers not unfrequently form a com- pete ring. (-) Situation. The typhoid ulcers are always at first situated on the side remote from the mesenteric attachment since the Peyer s and other glands are found there; tubercular ulcers may occur m other parts, even at the mesenteric attachment. (3) colour. In the typhoid process, before ulceration is complete, the necrotic sloughing mass is found stained yellow by feces, or with fecal matter adhering to it, which is not the case with tubercular ulcers (4) Margin. The margins of both are raised, but in the typhoid ulcers, simply swollen and injected; in the tubercular, mmtrated with tubercular or caseous matter, while there are often distinct outlying tubercles. In typhoid the wall is very abrupt or even somewhat overhanging, as may be seen by directing a gentle stream of water upon the ulcer. In tuber- cular ulcers the descent is gradual or by successive steps, (o) bur rounding parts. Actual tubercles are sometimes found m the mucous membrane surrounding tubercular ulcers, or tneir floor, or on the serous covering of the intestine, ’but ,e-' are not constant. They are of course wanting in typhoid an • tllc Peritoneal covering over these is usually natural, ip Cicatrization. Tubercular ulcers form a more decidedly norous cicatrix, and more often lead to contraction of the intes- tine than typhoid. In fact, it is doubtful whether the latter ever cio so.