DILATATION OF THE HEART. 340 but are the effects of some general error of growth or develop- ment This does not, however, explain those cases where hyper- trophy is confined to the left ventricle; since a spontaneous developmental process would affect all parts alike. Aneurisms sometimes cause hypertrophy of the left ventricle, or at least aCThePlSt auricle often participates in the enlargement of the ventricle, but hardly seems to be primarily affected except in mitral obstruction, where it is first dilated and then hypei- tX <Hvnertrophy of the right side is far less common: partly because valvular affections are rarer on that side. Obstructions m the capillary circulation through the lungs are the most frequent cause • thus this form of hypertrophy occurs in chronic bronchitis, empyema, induration of the lung, &c. We may also point out a fact which we have not seen noticed elsewhere -that curvature of the spine, whether angular or lateral, is often associated vnth hypertrophy of the right ventricle. This probably arises from the diminished*capacity of the thorax, leading to imperfect restora- Ob“wio7mitral orifice also lead, l. dilatation, and sometimes hypertrophy of the right side, by hinder- ,-no. |V,e of blood through the lungs. . An undeniable influence must be also attributed to mflammatoij affections of the endo- and pericardium, as well as to chronic inflammatory conditions of the muscular tissue of the heart, pro- ducffTfibroid patches. The manner in which pericarditis gives rise to it is bv causing partial or general adhesions, and thus; prevent- ing the contraction of the muscular tissue, Endocarmhs most commonly gives rise to hypertrophy by inducing changes in the valvular apparatus, and thus affording impediments to the sanguineous current. dilatation of tiie heart. TTvuertrophy is, as we have said, often accompanied by dila- i + nt?- but the latter condition may occur without any change 1 fte tic walls; or there mar be actual tbmumg of tllT?'1‘^ovfrr.Tihv with dilatation corresponds to the condition to rtidfthe oldlr authors applied the term active dilatation; while n : associated with a diminution of the fleshy panetes, was dilatation, a t Tho tw0 conditions have also been known as p Corvisart, active and passive aneurism of and the partial foim.