87 INFLAMMATION. aggregative tendency, or even repulsive tendency of the red cor- . puscles for each other and for the walls of the vessels, must remain ■ uncertain; but the coincidence before noticed must be allowed to : give considerable support to the main point, on whicii we would : insist, viz., that the nutrition power of the tissues is chiefly con- , cerned in the production of the flow of active hypersemia, and the i stasis of inflammation. Not very different from this, at least on this special point, is the ' theory of Virchow. He supposes the starting point in the chain of phenomena in inflammation to be in the tissues. The stimulus (whatever it may be) is supposed to act upon the cells, not directly , on the vessels, ‘arousing in them greater nutritive activity; in i consequence of which there is more rapid exudation of nutrient material and increased afflux of blood. Thus are caused the phenomena of hypersemia and exudation. We must now discuss the nature of these changes in the tissues, on which the theory of Virchow rests. Alterations of the Tissues in Inflammation.—Beside the phenomena which have been described as occurring in the blood and the vessels, important alterations are found in tissues which have been the seat , of inflammation. These changes are partly constructive, partly destructive; we shall first consider the former. Constructive or reproductive changes are shown by the presence in the tissues of a number of elements which were not there before, these elements not being specialized cells such as epithelial or connective tissue cells, but having an indeterminate or embryonic character. These may be summarily described as young cells. Three hypotheses have been made about the origin of these elements:—(1) that they are formed in an amorphous blastema exuded from the vessels; (2) that they result from the multiplication of the ele- ments of the tissues; (3) that they are extravasated leucocytes. The same three hypotheses have been made respecting the origin of the corpuscles of pus and inflammatory lymph, with which, of course, the new elements of the tissues are identical. We are now concerned only with the second of these theories, in sup- port of which it has been asserted that evidences of multiplication can be traced in the tissue-cells of an inflamed part. These evidences are such as the presence of two or more immature cells on the pi’ecise spot where only one is normally found; cells pressed closely together, and showing by their form that they have been derived from the division of one mass; cells containing several nuclei, &c. In vascular organs, it is difficult or impossible to distinguish leucocytes escaped from the vessels from cells which may be the brood of the tissue elements, and hence non-vascular tissues have been especially studied. The observations of Redfern on the ulceration of cartilages were among the earliest and the best. In this condition, the gradual change of a single cell into a collection of pus cells may be traced within different cartilage cap- sules. This process was formerly not regardod as inflammation,