CHAPTER XXYI. DISEASES OF THE VEINS. INFLAMMATION OF YEINS. This condition was once thought to possess a much greater import- ance than we now assign to it, since it was regarded as the chief cause of coagulation in the veins ; and, m fact, the term 1 hlebitusl was used to mean precisely what we have elsewhere (following Virchow") called Thrombosis. The two phenomena, inflammation and coagulation, are very frequently found .occurring together, but it is now known that in nearly all such cases, the coagulation determines the inflammation. It is, however, often impossible, at the stage at which the phenomena come under our observation, to decide the question of priority. Primary inflammation, or phlebitis, may be acute or chronic. _ Acute phlebitis is produced by direct injury, by inflammation m surrounding parts, by perforation of the wall by pus or sanies, or especially by coagulation withm the vein. Ihe inflammation produced by these causes is chiefly developed in the middle and outer coats forming the mesophlebitis and periphlebitis of I irehow. SpSitL, or inflammation ot tie inner coat, is hordlj seer, m au acute form, except as a consequence of the coagulation of blood in the vein Since as, in arteries, the middle and outer coats are the only vascular parts, they will naturally be most readily affected by inflammation, and show its phenomena most.distinctly. 5There is vivid injection of the outer coat, sometimes with extravasation ; and less pronounced redness of the middle tunic which may be visible through the inner. The walls are miub ^llen thickened, and infiltrated with serous or purulent exuda- tion The cavity becomes at the same time dilated from parall els ^ the muscular fibres, so that the vein altogether appears greatly mlarged The inner coat becomes dull, opaque, easily torn and sometimes flakes off spontaneously m continuous pieces, boagu iXon of the blood contained m the vein is always found when the inflammation has reached this stage, and is doubt-ess some-