612 ABN0RM.1L conditions of tiie intestinal contents. Planer found fifty per cent, of nitrogen in the gas accumulated in the colon above a structure in the sigmoid flexure. Concretions are occasionally met with in the intestinal canal, and in rare instances of very large size. Dr. Monro (Primus) observed some varying from five to eight inches in circumference, and Monro (Secundus) removed one from the colon which weighed four pounds. Sometimes several, as many* as thirty, exist to- gether, but commonly there are not more than two. The colour of the smaller resembles that of iron ochre, the larger are more of a coffee colour, and occasionally whitish. “They are generally found in concentric layers, and are often radiated, sometimes very obscurely, from nuclei. They are more or less porous, either spheroidal or oblong, and vary from the size of a pea to that of a hen’s egg, or still larger.” The nuclei of concretions may ha °-all-stones° fragments of bones, fruit, seeds, &c., round which- saline and animal or undigested matters collect and become con- densed. In Scotland where oatmeal is much used as an article of food the fibres of the husk of the oats have been found to consti- tute a large part, or nearly the whole of the concretion, and in a similar manner chewed paper, the several portions being matted together by mucus with faecal and earthy matter, has been known to cause their formation. Such concretions often exhibit no dis- tinct nucleus. Concretions, which may be mistaken for gab- stones, but which are of a fatty nature, are sometimes voided by persons who suffer from a torpid state of the bowels, and deficient digestive function. Dr. Copland describes them as of a globular form, varying from tli© size of a pea to tliat of a large grape, of a cream colour, slightly translucent, and of the consistence of soft wax. It is probable that these concretions, as well as the evacu- ations of a more fluid fat which occasionally take place, are con- nected in some measure with disease of the pancreas. Observa- tion of disease has in several instances shown the coincidence of the two phenomena, and Bernard has offered a physiological explanation, viz. that the use of the pancreatic secretion is to make the fat contained in the food capable of being absorbed. His results, however, are denied by Frenchs, Bidder, and bchmidt. Blood is sometimes effused in greater or smaller quantities into the intestinal canal. This may result from active or passive hyper- eemia, ulcerations, purpura, scorbutic dysentery, and we have once seen it in a case of death from a severe fall. The parasites of the intestines have already been enumerated. Mucus in any appreciable quantity can scarcely be said to exist in nerfectly healthy intestines; but it is secreted abundantly, a> we have seen, under catarrhal irritation. _ Rokitansky applies it the following epithets in various cases; it is either milky white, vellowish, and purulent, or glutinous, transparent,- ^frcom. Lawny. He also states that there can be no doubt that a peculiar gelatinous constitution of the mucus is the nidm intestinal entozoa, and favours helminthiasis. Under irritation