INTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTERIC FEVER. 590 slaty or blacldsh-blue colour. (5) The base of the ulcer is formed by a delicate layer of submucous tissue which covers the muscular coat; like the marginal substance, it is quite void of morbid growth. (6) The small intestine is the seat of the ulcerative pro- b cess, and the lower third is most liable to be involved—the number and size of the ulcers increase as they advance towards the ileo-ceecal valve.” We must add with respect to the last character, that the ulcerative process is by no means confined to the small intestine; we have seen the mucous membrane of the large intestine, down to the rectum, riddled with ulcers. They were many of them of large size, and had clean cut, non-thickened margins. This condition, indicating the absence of reparative action, is not nearly so frequent as that of thickening and induration, which generally take place to some extent in the side of the ulcer. The bottom of the ulcer • is commonly formed by the sub- mucous tissue; sometimes the mus- cular fibres are completely exposed. This, however, is generally the result: of secondary advance, subsequent to the expulsion of the morbid products. Rokitansky particularly insists on the point, and we think he is cor- rect, that when an ulcer increases • in depth so as to perforate the intes- tine, it advances not by continued 1 deposition and softening of the same matter as that originally produced, but by simple extension of the ulcerating action. The matter which causes the tumefaction of the agminate and 1 solitary glands chiefly consists of actual multiplication of the corpuscles in the (agminated lymph and solitary) glands accom- panied by a certain amount of exudation; these newly-formed elements seem to be particularly liable to decay, so that a large portion of the mass may be found in the condition of ar degeneration, or converted into amorphous molecular detritus. Black granules and grains of pigmentary matter are often present in it but they are by no means peculiar to the typhoid state. The give’to the glands a black dotted appearance, as seen bv the n^ked eye, and this we have observed more than once after death trom other causes than fever. Typlioid ulcers in small intestine. Death from haemorrhage. The out- line figures represent vertical sec- tions. In the upper figure the mar- gins of the ulcer are thickened; in the lower they are clean cut, as if punched.