407 DILATATION OF VEINS. avails himself of these differences for establishing his classification, lie assumes three varieties—simple dilatation ; uniform dilatation, i accompanied by thickening of the coats ; and irregular dilatation, with thickening or attenuation. The distension is generally owing : to some impediment being offered to the return of the blood to the i heart; and we therefore most commonly meet with it in parts in which the surrounding tissues are lax, and consequently do not offer a sufficient resistance to the pressure of the blood. Hence varicose veins are most commonly met with in the vicinity of the i rectum and pudenda, and in the lower extremities. The veins • swell, and assume a nodulated appearance and tortuous course, ’ while the increased local pressure gives rise to an hypertrophy of • the coats. Gendrin * and Briquet attribute the latter to chronic i inflammation. A necessary consequence of the dilatation is an : insufficiency of the valves, which no longer close the passage to the i regurgitating current. They suffer a solution of continuity, and i may become partially or wholly obliterated. The occurrence of ] phlebectasis has been ascribed to a peculiar constitution, which ] Hesse terms a morbid, predominance of the venous system, a venous I habit of the body, which may be characterized as one of general 1 laxity of fibre and want of tone, associated with a tendency to 1 local congestions. Age exercises a marked influence upon the occurrence and prevalence of the affection. It rarely manifests . itself in any form until puberty, and is most common during the ] prime of life, as the tendency to it gradually ceases with advancing ’ years. An hereditary predisposition may very frequently be i traced. There is also a marked difference in the two sexes in : regard to their proclivity to certain forms of the disease. Thus ' the hsemorrhoidal form is more frequently met with in the male ■ sex, and its symptoms in many instances have suggested the ■ impression that it is an analogue to the menstrual secretion in the ' female, from the periodicity of its occurrence and the relief the : flux affords to the system. In some rare cases, recorded as curi- osities by various authors,! a dilatation of the large veins in the cavities of the trunk has been observed. We must content our- : selves with alluding to the fact, and pass to the consideration of f the ordinary forms of the disease. Varicocele or Cirsocek.—This disease affects the male sex com- monly at the commencement of puberty. It consists in a dilata- tion of the veins of the spermatic cord, and prevails more on the left than the right side—a circumstance attributed to the more circuitous route taken by the left than the right spermatic vein. How rarely it affects the right side is shown by the fact, that in one hundred and twenty cases operated upon by Breschet, all but one occurred on the left. It is important, on account of the atrophy of the testicle which it is likely to induce, from its causing hsematocele, by haemorrhage into the tuniea vaginalis, and from * “ Archives OenCrales <Ie Medicine,” vol. vii. pp. 200 aud 396. t See “ Puchelt das Yenensystem," vol. ii. p. 378, et seq.