610 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CONTENTS. He also notices the effect of hsemorrhoidal tumours on the mucous membrane around them, which is raised and forced down along with them when they are protruded beyond the sphincter, so that at last it becomes permanently relaxed and “ baggy.” The female sex, sedentary occupations, and constipation, are enumerated as the chief cause of hsemorrhoids, to which we should add a plethoric habit, and a lax condition of fibre. It does not appear at all proved that cirrhosis of the liver, or obstructive disease of the heart, has any marked influence in the production of piles, as one would naturally expect. The mucous membrane thinned over an hsemorrhoidal tumour is prone to ulcerate, and the resulting sore, accord,ing to Rokitansky, is characterized by its seat in the vicinity of the sphincters, its irregular shape, its indented and sinuous flabby margin of mucous membrane, and the ridges of similar tissue that surround or pass over it. These ulcers may continue to burrow into the surrounding areolar tissue, and give rise there to abscess, and ultimately to fistula in ano. Fistula in ano.—This, however, more often results from inflam- mation being set up in the deeper-seated tissues, the areolar and adipose, but still in the vicinity of the bowel, which advances to suppuration, and in most cases makes its way first outwardly through the integument surrounding the anus, and afterwards establishes a communication with the cavity of the rectum by a small aperture situated very constantly at the distance of an inch, or an inch and a quarter, from the anus. It does not clearly appear why fistula in ano should occur so often as it does in persons prone to pulmonary tuberculosis, and still less why its existence should be preservative, at least in not a few cases, against the invasion of the dread malady. Cancerous disease attacks the rectum in most of the forms mentioned as affecting the whole intestine ; the only one which it seems desirable especially to notice, is that which gives rise to the annular stricture, -this occurs almost exclusively at the upper portion of the rectum, especially at the junction of the sigmoid flexure; the stnctured part is sometimes unattached, more often firmly agglutinated to the promontory of the sacrum, but is nevertheless pushed down by the fiecal accumulations above, so as to be within reach o examination by the finger. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CONTENTS. Intestinal Gases.—The accumulation of an excessive quantity of qas in the intestinal canal constitutes the most ordinary o of Tympanitis. It often occurs in inflammatory affections o the canal, which induce more or less paralysis of the coa s, i consequence of which the gas is not expelled, but goes accumulating. The gas in the stomach of an executed cnmnai was found by Magendie and Clieyreul to con&ist of atmo^i