778 CHANGES OF COMPOUND CYSTS. blance to any actual bone of the skeleton. The remaining contents of the cysts are tallowy or crystalline fat, with cholesterine, detached epidermic scales, and hairs. The fatty matter is doubtless secreted by the sebaceous glands. It will be observed that all these pro- ducts except bone belong to the epidermis, but in a very few rare cases other tissues, as striped muscle and nerve tissue, have been observed; as, indeed, has also been the case in some dermoid cysts from other parts. These cysts are liable to inflammation and rupture, sometimes discharging externally, or else into the vagina or rectum. Origin of Dermoid Cysts.—The explanation of these growths is confessedly one of the obscurest chapters in pathology. When occurring in the ovary, they were at one time regarded as the remains of an imperfectly-formed foetus—a view plainly untenable, since they have occurred before menstruation; or, again, as the inclusion of a second foetus within the body of the first, which is an unsupported hypothesis. Generally later pathologists have con- cluded that they must be in some way a result of the normal productivity of the ovaries, exercised without impregnation, in an altogether abnormal way, the process being compared some- times to the generation by which lower forms of animal life increase, or more specifically to parthenogenesis. If these tumours never occurred in other parts of the body, this theory would at least indicate the direction in which an explanation should be sought, but no one would attribute a genetic function to the skin or the mediastinum. It appears to us that a far more hopeful suggestion is that originally made by Dr. Wilson Fox, to the effect that these cysts will be found to arise by the same laws as the ordinary compound cystoid tumours. This comparison, at that time unsupported by observations, has been confirmed by the few cases of simultaneous occurrence of dermoid and compound cysts, especially by a remarkable case described by Flesch, and others adduced by that writer.* Cancer of the ovary may be either primary or secondary. Primary cancer usually occurs in a form not distinctly scirrhous or medullary, but either, like many cancers of internal organs, of an intermediate hardness, or else showing a different consistency in different parts. It is very often indeed combined with cysts, either simple or compound. We have seen one case of combination of cancer and a dermoid cyst. In the softer forms it grows rapidly, and may form a tumour as large as a child’s or a man’s head. It comparatively rarely ulcerates, and does not show a very marked tendency to attack the neighbouring organs, though it may form inflammatory adhesions. Not unfrequently it occurs in both ovaries at once. Hard, scirrhous-like forms are very rare. In such specimens as we have examined, we have found a distinct alveolar • Wilson Fox, “ Medico-Chi rare:. Transactions,” rol. xlvii. 1S64. Flesch, “ Wilrz- burger Verhnndlungen,” vol. iii. Heft 2, 1872. See albo “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xviii. p. 190.