ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. 553 We have seen an instance of the last in which three such pouches ■ were formed one above the other between the mesocolon and the abdominal wall, but had given rise to no symptoms though they contained coils of ileum. * ° J Peritonitis. The peritoneum is extremely liable to inflammation which may be of various degrees of acuteness, or may be chronic ub initio. The former is extremely common, and results not only from all causes of irritation applied to it, but also originates spontaneously; or, as Eokitanskv avers, in consequence of the rheumatic poison. The inflammation varies much in extent, very .roften it is general, affecting the whole membrane, but often also it is partial, confining itself to a certain region. The simplest mstance of partial peritonitis which we can take is, perhaps, that which occurs when an ulcer is making its way through the walls of the intestine, and threatening to perforate them. Opposite the threatened spot a patch of injected vessels appears on the serous membrane, which pour out a fibrinous exudation forming a protecting investment, or an adherent medium uniting it to [ adjacent parts. Inflammation, however, when set up at one part is very prone, as m all serous membranes, to propagate itself to the | .surrounding ; and thus it very commonly happens that peritonitis, I which commences in one locality over an inflamed or irritated i.irgan, diffuses itself over the whole membrane till it becomes fiT -thfl Gariy pCr\0d mJected vessels are very distinctly ^ m.flamed membrane, forming streaks or patches of edness. The injection however, is seldom very strongly marked, except m the spaces formed by adjacent loops of bowel, which ■Lk^r!iapS’ drnu-m- to the readiness with which exudation Itt P i i ldlS 18 .otten seen as a delicate thin layer of fibrinous ™ni°rfffe y-lnVeStl^g inflamed sui'face, sometimes it is so canty that it is scarcely discernible, unless the surface is carefully mraped or adjacent intestinal convolutions are separated from acn other, when it appears as minute filaments stretching across ^ “.‘‘“‘“/IW sometimes colled “ £ irrows between convolutions of intestines pressed together, and is thene than elsewhere. In instances of severe nd nZh * -r® lnflammatory products are often very abundant uid^a hi purlform118 mmgled with the fibrinous matter. Serous ,n(i. i'l ,S0 T.p0tUyGd often m considerable abundance, and is XS hJ flakr and molecules of fibrine and pus cor un ‘ dplscd throughout it. In peritonitis attacking persons meralVpre^omfna'e!0 **'* ^ S6r0U8 and pUri&rm p™duct8 6aSe Wltd wilich inflammation of the peritoneum l PT-, 3ti UPf ,exPenmentally, it has beon specially studied as i example of inflammation in general. Peritonitis set up by