PAPILLARY GROWTHS, OR PAPILLOMATA. 159 these, as well as in the simple cysts. The partitions between the various cysts sometimes give way, and thus a tumour is produced which internally seems imperfectly divided into compartments. In the other mode of development the secondary cysts grow inward into the cavity of the parent, which they fill up more or less com- pletely ; a tertiary race behaves toward them in the same wav and so on. This form may be combined with the preceding Eokitansky describes a kind of villous, or cauliflower growth which originates on the wall of the secondary or parent cyst and may mcrease so as not only to fill the cyst cavity, but to break through its wall and vegetate in the cavity of the peritoneum.* The impression left on the mind of the observer after a minute examination of the compound cysts, is, that they are of the lowest type of organization, resulting apparently from a depraved, de- generate formative action, which, withdrawing blastema from its proper uses in the system, hurries it with a wasteful expenditure into useless and injurious elementary shapes. How precious is the stringency of the law of our organic constitution which is comparatively seldom infringed by such terrible aberrations ! It the *enden°y t0 cyst formation most often appears m the existence of several together; it is certainly far VcTr'7 ' findsevfa1’ whe.ther °f new formation, or result- m from distension of natural cavities, than to find a solitary one. It should be mentioned here that the formation of cysts may anCdU1inntb?ry WS °1 gl'0Wth’ both “docent and malignant^ rvdn th 7 “!Xed forms result> such as cystic enchondroma go-sarcoma, cysto-carcmoma, &c. The significance and general w£htbS tf gr°Wt>9.Wl11 be. determined by the structure with wnich the cj stic growth is combined. PAPILLARY GROWTHS, OR PAPILLOMATA. ^„^le,Re, growths, which have also been called epidermic and C i r™’^8^6 a weif-marked class of new forma- inf-Ar’ aI'e fd very frequent occurrence, and much practical mterest. Warts and callosities of the skin are minor instances of ducef bvP’ and CTS181t fmply m thickening of the epidermis, pro- of bfocjf rrlat!d layTr ltS, scales’ As an increased flow the -11 tbe Part must take place it is not surprising that advanre! ? C°nU1? beneath should, in some of the°more vanced cases, become hypertrophied and elone-aterl + Project upwards into the little tumour. In condvlomafn ,r, t0 the°orifi ’ aDdf 8imilal' V°g0tatlons’ which al'e apt to foim about! the onfaces of mucous canals, under the irritation of syphilitic $*5? at p. 404, Of a of . vast numbers of TUMWul.feS. to be.?f th“ W. It consisted basement membrane enclosing celia.’ ^ ls apparently of