632 CONDITIONS PRODUCING JAUNDICE. more than this occurs. Dilatation of the heart, or obstructive valvular disease, throwing back the blood on the venous system, occasions permanent congestion of the liver, and often produces the condition termed “nutmeg” in its most marked form. In this, as before described, the congestion is exactly co-extensive with extreme yellow engorgement of the cells; a much larger quantity of yellow matter is contained in the liver; there is hepatic jaundice, and together with this, and, no doubt, in conse- quence of it, general jaundice frequently occurs. In these cases we think the evacuations continue of their natural colour ; a cer- tain quantity at least of bile flows into the intestine. In most healthy animals the cells of the liver have only a very faint, if any, yellow tinge, but by repeated doses of calomel we have caused the production of a large quantity of yellow matter in the cells ; there is evidence also to show that the same has occurred in the human subject. In the acute yellow atrophy, as Rokitansky names that condition of the liver (of which we shall speak presently), attended with symptoms of toxeemia, and proving fatal by coma, there must certainly be a greatly-increased production of yellow pigment. The flow of bile into the intestine is not so completely stopped as it is in other instances of jaundice, and the yellow coloration of the liver is deeper than it is almost ever seen. _ Icterus neonatorum appears also to be an instance of the excessive production of bile or of bile-pigment: there is evidently no disease of the liver, or any obstruction in the biliary ducts, but owing to the organ at birth being highly congested with blood, and the system not having adapted itself to its new condition, a greater quantity of yellow pigment is formed out of the colouring matter of the blood than can be readily carried off by the bile; this again returns into the blood and produces jaundice. This explanation seems preferable to that which assigns a kind of hypersemic or half-bruised state of the skin, as the cause of the yellow stain; were this so, how could the conjunctive come to be affected ? When jaundice occurs in the course of fevers or in pysemia, it then depends, in all probability, on an alteration taking place directly in the hemoglobin of the blood, which, as in the case of an extra- vasation, is changed from a red to a yellowish tint; in this ease there would be no preceding jaundice of the liver. It is evident that in all instances of jaundice the unnatural tint results from the presence of a yellow (usually identical with bile) pigment in the blood: this is easily demonstrable in the urine and other secretions by the stain imparted to linen, or by the play of colours which it gives with nitric acid; but there is little or no evidence to show that real biliary matter, i.e., the bile acids, are present in the blood or the secretions. From jaundiced livers plenty of yellow pigment can be extracted, reacting with the nitric acid test, but no cholic acid, or any substance that gives the reaction of Pettenkofer s test. The blood, in cases of jaundice, is more often found to contain bile- pigment without cholic acid, than the reverse. The same is the case