754 MALPOSITIONS OF THE UTEEUS. thelium begins again. The mucous membrane of the cervix is little altered. The two lips of the vaginal portion become of equal length. MALPOSITIONS OF THE TJTEKUS. No organ of the body is liable to so frequent and so varied and extensive changes of position as the uterus, many of which i ei j materially affect the health of the individual and her prospects of maternity. Opinions are much divided as to the importance of some of these lesions; and it is uncertain how far the symptoms sometimes attributed to them are due to this cause alone ; but into these questions we cannot enter. There are tw;o great classes of malpositions, known respectively as versions and flexions. Versions are those in which the whole organ is tilted out of its ordinary position, its axis being little, if at all bent on ltseli: and flexions in which the axis of the cavity of the uterus forms an angle, more or less abrupt, with the cervix. We have thus an e- version and retroversion, and anteflexion and retroflexion, besides the occasional oblique position to one side, encoimtered m preg- nancy, or associated with growth m the uterus. 01.the two chief abnormal positions, the backward tdt and twist (often conjoined) are far more frequently noted than displacements forward. It is obvious that extreme flexion of the uterus on itself besides interfering gravely with the bladder or rectum, may be the cause of many painful symptoms and severe dysmennorihcea In Di. Graily Hewitt’s work on “Diseases of Tiomen (3rd Edition, 1872)f the other symptoms thought to be associated wuth the less marked degrees of displacement are recorded at length, and the volume may be advantageously consulted for further information °nThc second' class of malpositions consists in a descent of the womb into the vagina, or in its extrusion beyond the labia, the term prolapsus has been, somewhat arbitrarily, applied TO the lower degree, procidentia to the extreme form. In either case the axis of the womb must be altered, as well as its relations to tie surrounding viscera. The predisposing cause is often some hypertrophy of the organ, together with a lax state of the tissues generally, and more particularly of the ligament, of theuteiu* and of the vagina, which may be the symptom of a debilitated constitution, as in lymphatic individuals, or the result of reputed pregnancies, the commencing prolapse being often1 £ a£r°ravated by long standing; hence the frequency of thu atie tion.1 amongst cooks and laundresses. The immediate cause is very frequently an unusual bodily effort, • rns.es It is to be borne in mind, however, that in the major • ' ■ n of so-called prolapsus the condition really present is i c r* and hypertrophy of the cervical portion of the uterus. This has