THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 316 so extremely common, that we must suppose it to depend upon i accidental variations in the distribution of the blood supply. Herpes Zoster is a vesicular inflammation of the skin which, from its distribution, is clearly dependent upon a morbid condition of i a cutaneous nerve, and has been sometimes regarded as a neuritis, r. or inflammation of the nerve trunk itself. Pain of a “ neuralgic” i character often accompanies the cutaneous affection, and paralysis - of motor nerves more rarely. Actual changes in the nerve twigs ; are somewhat dubious (though described by Haight), but more decided changes have been traced in the sympathetic ganglia con- nected with the nerves. The nerves most commonly affected are the branches of the fifth cranial, the intercostals, and in the leg, the anterior crural or other branches of the lumbar plexus. The ganglia corresponding to these are the Casserian ganglion for the fifth, and the ganglia connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The latter were long ago described by Barensprung : as congested in cases of intercostal herpes ; and lately V. Y yss has, with the aid of modern methods of research, examined the 1 Casserian ganglion in a case of herpes of the fifth cranial nerve, and found it acutely inflamed. We must, therefore, suppose that the disease is one beginning in the grey matter of the ganglia, and . that some morbid change peripherally transmitted, causes the cutaneous eruption. It appears that the sympathetic system may also, though veiw rarely, be the seat of neuroma. Dr. Smith gives an instance of it occurring in the cervical ganglia, and figures it; it is, probably, the same case which is described, by Oruveilhier,* as a case of fibrous transformation, and enormous development of the cervical ganglia, and the nerves of communication passing between them. One of the tumours was two and a-half inches long by one in breadth. Both authors state that their subject was accidentally discovered in the dissecting room, in Paris, and that no history of the case was obtainable. Dr. Smith, in alluding to this remarkable degeneration of the cervical ganglia, states that, according to Schiffner and Bischoff, . this condition of the sympathetic frequently coincides with idiotcy and cretinism; it is a point which requires further confirmation. Pin el (quoted by Yirchow) is said to have found the superior cervi- cal ganglia of the sympathetic enlarged to three times the normal size in nine insane persons. » “ Anat. Pathol.,” Livr. pi. iii.