THE DURA HATER OF THE SPINAL CORD. 291 Fio. 69. An instance of melanotic growth apparently proceeding from the dura mater of the cord, is to be found in the Report of the Pathological Society for 1847. Dr. Williams discovered it in a patient, aged forty-six, who, three years previously, had suffered from hemiplegia of the right side, following the extirpation of the nght eye for fungus. The patient recovered from "this, and in the summer preceding his death was attacked with epilepsv weakness and numbness of the lower extre- r J ' mities, and inferior portion of the trank, soon proceeding to complete'paraplegia, super- vened. The brain and its membranes were found healthy; within the spinal canal, ■ closely adherent to the theca externally, • there existed an irregular encephaloid mass, i mottled with dark spots, extending from the 1 third to the sixth dorsal vertebrae, the bodies of which were carious and infiltrated with . cancerous matter; the portion of the cord ! beneath the tumour was flattened, soft, and 1 wasted. In connection with this subject, we : may also be allowed to mention the very rare occurrence of a genuine fatty tumour, within : the spinal column, in contact with the dura mater; an instance of this affection was ' Drought before the Pathological Society, in ! ?862> by Mr. Obre, in which death was produced m an otherwise healthy child by the mere me- chanical pressure exerted by a deposit of this ,.Pait of the dorsal por- Ikind The lipomatousi growth was two and aTouU^^Cled a-half inches m length, the breadth of the paraplegic, canal, and about half an inch in thickness ^ t!,i?k la^er of frmph composed of the ordinary spherical fat cells! was SSTSSSoSS it did not differ from fat usually met with in ‘S®. dura mater, and Seemflf1SitUati°r-’ e;Tpting that thS CG11S oor^VT^Se^ * seemed to contain fat in a more solid and an extension of disease | granular state. It lay between the theca and bi^ndfnterwrto^ 7rte" the bodies of the last cervical and first dorsal tiiages. The cord and dura vertebrae. Small masses of fatty tissue in this fna!er aPPear healthy in ! some who t'11'6 n0t, Dticommori. A tumour of JsSSSist. Bartholomew’s somewhat uncertain histological character, Museum, Series vii. No. growing from the arachnoid surface of dura 10,) Sr“d by ^ W‘lkS'* ““ ““ *» is occasionally met with in the spinal dura motor hich thus contrasts with the cerebral; while, on the other hand’ ■the spinal arachnoid seems to have no liability to that affection. ’ VJ™"8- Path- Soc.,” 1856, vol. vii. p 37 t Ibid. p. 40. 1