686 MORBUS BRIGIJTII. thesis may he urged the fact that tubes are sometimes found filled with corpuscles, and without any epithelium, as if the latter had become changed into the former; tho existence of what are regarded as transitional forms, and finally the alleged analogy of catarrh on mucous surfaces. But since Cohnheim’s observations on the emigration of blood corpuscles, the latter origin has become much the most probable, and is particularly supported by such appearances as those in Big. 159, where we see exudation cor- puscles surrounding the Malpighian glomerulus, and further, filling all the surrounding tubes, the epithelium of which is intact. In this case it is clear that the corpuscles lie precisely in the track of matters exuded from the vessels. It is possible that here, as in other cases of inflammation, new cells may he produced from more than one source. Urine of Parenchymatous or Tubular Nephritis.—The unne pro- duced by kidneys in the foregoing condition is almost invariably diminished in quantity, generally paler than natural, of some- what altered smell, and deposits a whitish sediment, consisting of fibrinous casts, renal epithelium, and vesical scaly particles. Its specific gravity, which in the earlier stages may be above, tends to fall more and more below, the standard of health. "When oil drops appear in the epithelium or in the casts, it is, of course, a sign that oil is deposited in the kidney, but it is by no means certain that this particular change is of any moment. Albumen is constantly present, except in a few rare cases, where it disap- pears for a short time; its quantity varies considerably, being, apparently, much, more influenced by other circumstances than by the period of the disease, but always more than in the other form of the disease. . _., Granular Atrophy of the Kidney; Cirrhosis of the Kidney ; Chrome Interstitial Nephritis.—'The next condition of the kidney which we shall describe is often regarded as a further stage of the preceding; this is, we believe, sometimes the case,, hut not by any means necessarily or universally. The organ is greatly atrophied, and evidently contracted; its surface is covered with lriegulai Pro" minences, the so-called granulations. Its consistence is consider- ably increased, so that the structure has, as Frenchs says, a kind of leathery toughness ; this is more marked m proportion to the atrophy. The colour is decidedly less pale than m the former variety, but has generally the following peculiarities. Bale yellowish granulations covering the surface are separated by tissue which is somewhat more vascular and less yellow. The granula- tions correspond to the natural divisions of groups of tubules which may be traced dimly in the healthy organism. Sometimes the colour is much more uniformly red, but this colour depeu s rather upon passive hyperaemia than on the actual colour oi t e tissue, and is more often seen in cases of wasting dependent upon venous congestion than in the true “granular kidney. “ section the colour is usually pale yellowish and mottled, but tne