476 LOBAR PNEUMONIA. second stages merge into one another, and are often difficult to de- fine. In the second, the stasis of the blood becomes more marked, the specific gravity of the pulmonary tissue increases, the over- charged vessels relieve themselves by fibrinous exudation, and by slight haemorrhage into the air cells and infundibula; the latter mingling with the bronchial secretions, gives rise to the pathogno- monic rust-coloured expectoration of pneumonia. This stage" has received the name of hepatization, owing to the increased density of the parenchyma causing the affected portion of the lungs to resemble a piece of liver. The colour of the affected part is of a dark red, which is more or less venous or dusky, in proportion to the type of the inflamma- tion ; the crepitant character of the tissue is "fastsdisappearing; the lung, on section, has lost that light, spongy appearance peculiar to it in health, and but little frothy red fluid exudes from it. On the pleural surface, instead of the slate-coloured, marbly hue of the normal state, we find a more uniform, dusky red colour, scarcely broken by the interlobular septa. At this period, as Gendrin first pointed out, repeated washing and continued maceration fail to restore the natural colour of the tissues, which they recover, under such a process, if the redness is due merely to congestion. Before that exudation and general infiltration, have taken place, which constitute the succeeding stage of pneumonia, we find that, on breaking up a portion of hepatized lung, the surface is studded with small pinky granulations, which are identical with the pul- monary granulations of Bayle. This author, and some of his successors, looked upon them as the first stage of tubercular disease ; but, as Andral has satisfactorily shown, they are a product of inflammation, being, in fact, the solid masses contained in the alveoli and terminal air passages. On scraping the cut surface we may sometimes succeed in obtaining pretty accurate casts from the interior of these structures. Though the specific gravity of the hepatized lung is consi- derably increased, the dimensions of the organ are not necessarily augmented; occasionally, however, the organ is shown to be enlarged by the indentations left on its surface by the ribs. The different degrees of congestion of the inflamed portion pro- duce a mottling of the surface ; the congestion itself may be cir- cumscribed with a definite line, or it fades off gradually into the healthy tissue. As the second stage progresses, marbling of a different kind occurs, which is due to the gradual disappearance of the colouring particles of the blood, the absorption of the blood itself, and the substitution of a fibrinous deposit, or pus. We now enter into the third stage of pneumonia, or that of grey hepatiza- tion. The term well denotes the appearance of the affected por- tion ; it is entirely consolidated and deprived of all air, it presents a greyish or greyish-yellow colour, which is only varied by the almost linear remains of the compressed bronchules, and the pig- mentary matter scattered through the lung tissue. The general