EHACHITIS, OR RICKETS. 845 have commenced child-bearing, Mr. Curling* has collected six- teen cases, thirteen of which occurred in females, and three in males. Eleven were fatal between thirty and forty. In none it showed itself before puberty; but two patients were above fifty years of age. Several of them were delivered of children during the progress of the complaint. It is not associated with any particular lesion of the viscera; neither can an hereditary or idiopathic taint, or diathesis, be traced, by which the peculiar symptoms could be explained or referred to a known type. It seems probable that certain cases of so-called mollities ossium are essentially primary cancer of the skeleton. We have ourselves seen a case of this kind. In a well-marked instance of mollities ossium, of which the history was given to the Medico-Chirurgical Society by Dr. T. K. Chambers,! and which occurred in a female, aged twenty-six, the bones throughout the system were soft and yielding, so that a sharp knife could readily pass through them. A peculiar cystic condition of bone is thought by Rindfleisch to be possibly a sequel of mollities ossium. The formation of cystic cavities is stated to represent a stage in the development of that disease at which arrest of the morbid process takes place. This cystic degeneration affects those parts of the skeleton, and only those, previously affected by mollities ossium.. EHACHITIS, OR RICKETS. Rickets differs from scrofulous affections in this respect, that while frequently associated with inflammatory conditions, it is not essentiaUy an inflammation; one of its symptoms is a diminution of the consistency of the osseous texture, but it does not exclu- sively consist in rarefaction of the bone ; nor does it manifest those organic and chemical changes which constitute the peculiar disease known as mollities ossium. Owing to one feature having been regarded by different observers as characteristic of the disease, analogies have been repeatedly set down as proofs of identity’. While a general debility is the chief constitutional feature of the disease, a deficiency in the earthy matter of the bones is one of the chief local phenomena, yet the ricketty bone is not simply a soft bone; but it undergoes, during the development and sub- sidence of the disease, a series of curious and somewhat complex changes, ihe affection is especially one of early childhood; the fii st symptoms may be seen as early as four months old, but are not usually conspicuous till towards the end of the first, or in the second year. Guerin found, that of 346 cases, 209 were affected between tho first and third years; only three wore congenital; * “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xx. p. 836. + “Medical Times and Gazette,” March 25th, 1851,