545 MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TEETH. r running up to the basement membrane which supports the layer of scaly epithelium. When there is any habitual hyperiemia, and c consequent exudation, this submucous tissue readily gives origin to a new formation of similar substance, and so the enlargement i continually goes on. The morbid condition which most resembles it is enlargement of the Peyerian patches, which we shall presently describe. This chronic hypertrophy may occur alone or else 11 associated with similar enlargement of homologous tissues in other I parts of the body, as the spleen and the lymphatic glands.* Induration not unfrequently occurs as the result of inflammation, and depends, beyond doubt, on a fibroid development of the exuda- tion. Kokitansky says, “In scrofulous subjects the tonsils are often affected, in addition to hypertrophy and habitual hypenemia, with a peculiar hlennorrhoea, and the purulent secretion not un- frequently becomes inspissated, so as to form tubercular cheesy plugs, or even chalky concretions. These, in their turn, keep up a perpetual state of irritation in the tonsils.” Cancerous disease is veiy laie m this situation, hut common indurated enlargement has often been spoken of as scirrhus. Tubercle is extremely rare :in the tonsils. II.—MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TEETH. The brief summary that we shall give of these conditions is i taken from the excellent work of Mr. Tomes on the subject, to which we must refer for fuller information. Malposition of'the r other teeth is scarce more than a disfigurement, hut when the Bf wisdom teeth take a wrong direction the effects produced are sometimes very mischievous. Those of the lower jaw cause more serious evil by their wanderings than those of the upper. Some- luunes the tooth, though not deviating from its proper position, is luaia down by indurated gum. Esquirol mentions a case in which nental derangement depended on this cause. The wisdom tooth nay take a false direction inward or outward, and cause, by its I uessure, ulceration of the tongue or the cheeks. It may grow Ifirectly forwards against the posterior surface of the second molar : lad Prove(l the source of severe pain, resisting all treatment | l that °* extracting the offending tooth. Lastly, the tooth may uvance against the coronoid process, causing disease and necrosis the bone, and inflammation and abscess in the surrounding i arts. ° l n^\e ar° vei7 hable to caries, which is an affection very | hen of the same kind, as that occurring in bones. Mr. Tomes ■! “fv, “ tte dentine, from abnormal (nutritive) action, loses I .mi ,ty anc*- therewith becomes liable to be decomposed by the j" as of the mouth. It seems necessary that both conditions f Jlxwp.aro (described “cancer”) by Dr. Moxon: “Trans. Path. Soc.,’’ 18G9, N N