633 ACUTE YELLOW ATROPHY. with the urine; it often gives a characteristic reaction with nitric acid when none is afforded by the test of sugar and sulphuric acid. From these data we must conclude that jaundice depends on the presence of bile-pigment or some similar modification of hmmatine in the blood; but that it does not follow that bile, as such, is in all cases actually present. It may be that, in the graver cases of jaundice, attended with toxaemia, cholic acid, or some modification ot it, is present m the circulation in large quantity, as well as yellow pigment. The colour of the liver in jaundice is of a more or less marked yellow, in some cases passing to a green or brownish tmt; this will be of course, modified and more or less concealed by the blood contained m the vessels. Jaundice may also be pro- spoCkenboyfChangeS m the bilS dUCtS’ Which wiU be subsequently ACUTE YELLOW ATROPHY. This rare and remarkable affection seems to differ very much from the other morbid conditions producing jaundice. The size of L°r9glL 13 hel'6 greatly diminished.being sometimes less than 2 lbs. in an adult man. The colour is usually an intense flTi JUt som?tlmes orange-coloured or decidedly red, its texture a ,6ectlon shows nothing of the natural lobular arrange- ment, and it seems almost or quite bloodless. The blood in the large vessels is said by liokitansky to be reduced in consistence rL°ia <b?y wSih"brTTW5 colour, and the coats of the Y. Port® o be tinged with bile. Under the microscope it is seen that the ceffs are completely destroyed, and even their nuclei have perished the parenchyma is a mere mass of broken-up granular matter’ ■ deeply yellow and containing some largish yellow masses’ evmt«rth diffused oily matter. In one instance which we =ned no sugar could be extracted from the liver, though it is usuaily abundant in healthy organs: this may, however have depended on the non-ingestion of food for some time before death? tbp' mn/l e ducts we have found gravely altered; they had lost Ind al tnd Were mied Wlth subgranular matter opaque whitish globules. These globules, probably leucin remSlvlymPhatics- and rendered their course emr,tlkply (bs!,1I?ct- Several observers describe the bile ducts as 1 ty or containing only mucus, and never bile. biv,iW0 7emical substances are very constantly found in tho opaque £??<J^lbePatlC SS8Ue’ viz" leucin’ which occurs in whitish r»f-qUe ffJ,obuIes> sometimes concentrically stratified or in 1TOr„ SSr c™SlS'0b5‘“th '“a”'1 Whicl1 m >>«»£ Of 80 &Md “ U» the liver i, «ffel“‘ia i JdSaT