215 CESTOID PARASITES. without which detailed description would be unintelligible. The flat-jointed worms forming the genus Tmnia, properly so called, do not by sexual multiplication produce creatures of their own form. The ova which are developed in each segment of the tapeworms produce, on the other hand, creatures of the cystic type, such as cysticercus or echinococcus, which have no apjjaratus for sexual reproduction. In or from these forms are produced, however, by a process of gemmation organisms, called scolices, precisely resem- bling the “ head ” of the tapeworm; which, when placed in favour- able circumstances, develop again into jointed worms. The creature passes through, therefore, two entirely different phases of life—the strobile form, as a compound worm capable of true sexual repro- duction, and the larval or cystic form as a simple bladder parasite. This process has a distant analogy with the metamorpihoses of insects, and a more decided resemblance to the transformations of certain lower animals which are sometimes known as the alter- nation of generations. But in the case of parasites, the matter is complicated with other conditions. In the first place the two forms of the creature do not live in the same part of the body, the tape- worm always inhabiting the intestines, while the larval form is found in various other organs ; and in the second place it does not appear possible for the metamorphosis of the parasite to take place in one and the same animal. The ova or embryoes of the taenia never pass from the intestinal canal to other parts of the same individual, nor do the imperfect scolex-forms pass from the other organs to the intestines of the same animal to undergo further development. It is therefore necessary that there should be two animals (usually of different species), one to act as host to each form of the parasite; and that, generally speaking, one of these animals should serve as food to the other. We shall see how these conditions are fulfilled in the case of the common tapeworm and the echinococcus of the liver. There is, however, one division of this order, that, namely, represented by the broad tapeworm, Bothrioce- phalus latus (lamia lata), in which these metamorphoses do not occur, or at least have not been traced. Of those in which they do occur, two, Taenia solium and T. mediocanelluta, are found in the human body, commonly in the strobile form ; another, Taenia echinococcus, invariably in the larval or cystic form. Taenia Solium—common tapeworm.—This is a flat-jointed worm, of a whitish-grey colour, attaining sometimes a length of three or four yards. The so-called “ hoad ” is at the anterior smallest part of the worm ; it is the size of a large pin’s head, nearly spherical, with four lateral suckers, between which is a circle of hooks, some- times double, supported on a moveablo organ called the rostellum. The tapering portion of the body next to the head is called the neck • it is imperfectly divided by transverse furrows, but the rest of the worm is composed of distinct segments which increase in length and breadth towards the posterior extremity. The first perfect or mature segment is usually about the 450th. Tho tapeworm pos-