CYSTOLD TUMOURS. 157 takes place, and at last the cavity is lined by a more or less perfect epithelium, and the new formation is complete. We can discern the purpose for which such cysts are formed, the end they serve but we have no idea of the nature of the action which determines their formation. With regard to the others, which form in situa- tions removed from pressure, as in the broad ligament of the ovary, Fig. 26. o®©e®®®©H©o0© -O Simple serous cyst, and epithelial particles from its interior—from vicinity of ovaries. the cause of their production is utterly unknown. They consist ot a wall of fibrous tissue, varying in thickness in some measure according to the size of the cyst, condensed so as to form a smooth surface internally, and lined by a thin layer of epithelium, which has generally appeared to us to consist of nuclear particles, with imbedding granulous matter, and not of perfect cells. The import ot this condition of epithelium appears to have reference to the rapid secretory action which takes place. The fluid contents of these cysts may be poor or rich in albumen, may contain abun- dance of cell forms, or very few, and maybe either loaded with cholesterme, or devoid of it. We can confirm the statements of Mr. Simon, that the granule cells, which are sometimes very numerous, are the source of the colour of the dark coffee-ground- nhe matter which is sometimes present in large quantity. >mme of these simple cysts contain quantities of fat, hair, teeth, hor Tfu hn.e’ 80 tllat 8°me Sood authorities have expressed their Oeliel that they were the remains of a partially absorbed foetus, this is certainly not the case, but their occurrence is of extreme in- res , and when the growth is ovarian suggests very strongly that the normai reproductive function of this organ exerts itself by the development of these productions within its germ-bearing cavities, nder the influence of some unnatural stimulus. This, of course applies especially to the cysts alluded to under the first head as developed from the Graafian vesicles, but it is Rokitansky’s opinion aat cysts of new formation may develop like products also. Sir J -raget states, that m these cases the wall of the cyst acquires in' 5" character of true akin, with hair follilla SZ and sometimes perspiratory glands, and infers that “ the struc into itsand SfCC1'etl0,n8,forrnod on this P°rtion of the cyst are shed as oftl T 7’ and <^reaccumulate, and that they remain, when p har!pens- thf cutaneous structure on which they are pro- duced has degenerated and disappeared.” Several simnln &£* to<r»‘h« in the ovary” thi. „„ ,h„,™d co3 ? S fSes! W 7 rG3Ult fl'0m dovcdoPment of the Graafian