856 BLOOD TUMOURS IN BONE. time of observation he presented fifteen or sixteen of these swell- ings, on the fingers and metacarpal bones, one of which had attained the size of an orange, and required removal, solely on account of its bulk. They are liable to ossification, and sometimes ulcerate. Mult iple central enchondromata usually occur in children, sometimes with an hereditary tendency. The peripheral enchondroma may occur at any age, and in various parts of the skeleton; sometimes spontaneously, sometimes ap- parently resulting from injury. It develops from the periosteum or subperiosteal layer of bone, and grows outwards, pushing aside the soft parts. Ossification occurs in these tumours, but not usually to any great extent. They frequently soften or form cysts. They are sometimes combined with myxomatous, and sometimes with sarcomatous structure. In the latter case they are liable to have malignant properties. Sometimes they grow out in a villous or papillary form. A remarkable case of metastasis of cartilaginous growth is reported by Biesiadecki.* A cartilaginous tumour of the iliac bone, distinguished by a remarkable villous character, gave rise to cartilaginous masses (or cartilaginous thrombi) in the iliac veins; from which were detached cartilaginous emboli. The latter, lodging in branches of the pulmonary artery, gave rise to second- ary tumours in the lungs. A somewhat similar case was observed by 0. Weber, f Tatty tumours have, in exceptional cases, been observed in bone. Myxoma is more common, being sometimes combined with enchon- droma. BLOOD TUMOURS IN BONE. Hcematoma.—Effusion of blood, either into the subperiosteal tissue or into the medulla, gives rise to the form of tumour, or deposit called hfematoma. It is usually produced by injury. In the substance of the bone, the degenerated clot may give rise to a blood cyst. Cephalhwmatoma.—A form of sanguineous tumour of the head, met with in infancy as a result of the pressure exerted upon the cranial bones during parturition, and known by the term cephal- hsematoma, has given rise to much discussion, as the symptoms have been variously explained by different observers.! It consists of an effusion of blood between the pericranium and the bone, and is most commonly met with on one of the parietal bones. Bare cases are recorded of an internal cephalhematoma, in which the extravasation took place between the dura mater and * “ Wiener, Akadem. Sitzungs-berichte,” Abth ii. vol. lvii. May, 1S68. + “ Virch. Arcbiv.,” vol. xxxv. p. 503. 1 A good mum" of their opinions is given by Dr. Willshire in the tenth volume of the “ British and Foreign Med.-Uliir. Review,” July, 1S52. p. B.