MORBUS IiRIGimi. 688 changes are, in general, similar those seen in other organs, as a consequence of “ fibroid degeneration ” or fibroid substitution; and it is probable that the small-celled infiltration and atrophy go hand in hand, rather than that there is first a stage of cellular infiltration followed by a stage of atrophy, as the more recent German writers describe. This nuclear tissue is found very unevenly distributed through the kidney; chiefly in the cortex, and often passing in from the periphery, as Dr. Dickinson has especially shown. We may often, also, trace a close connection with the outer coat of the arteries (Fig. 162), a point to which Sir W. Gull and Dr. Sutton attach much importance. It is also especially abundant round the capsules of the Malpighian tufts, and this more particularly in what appear to be early stages of the disease.* We have observed sometimes a single tube with its homogeneous membrane denuded by separation of the epithelium, as noticed by Dr. Johnson, but in sections Fig. 161. the appearance of an empty tube is liable to some fallacy, since the epithelial contents may have fallen out in the process of preparation. We have also seen what we think has not yet been described, a kind of thickening, or hyper- trophy of this membrane, which has seemed to us to result from the atrophy of the epithelium, and its fusion into an homogeneous layer on the inner surface of the tube. The walls of the tubes and the stroma generally are often uniformly thickened. TheMal- pighian tufts, in consequence of the general collapse., appear closer together ; a few of them remain tolerably healthy, others are compressed and shrunken; often the capsule is filled, to a greater or less extent, with an oily-looking matter, or the capillaries are obscured by fibrinous exudation. A very important and signifi- cant alteration has been observed in the condition of the small arteries by Dr. Johnson; he finds their coats considerably thickened (Fig. 162), both the inner of longitudinal and the outer of circular fibres, and he regards this thickening as an instance of true hyper- trophy induced by the increased pressure exerted upon then parietes by the retardation of the circulation through the lntei - • Traube distinguishes two forms of granular kidney ; that in which "'e eelled inliltration is especially abundant round the Malpighian capsules, and tba which it occurs round the intertubular capillaries. Cortical part of a very granular kidney, containing very numerous microscopic cysts. The tubes are very much degenerated and broken up. Two Malp. bodies are shown.