THE ARTERIES. 374 red colour, and a considerable portion of lymph being effused into the cavity. The effused lymph was very intimately connected with the internal coat of the vessel, and a plug of it had extended into the left subclavian artery, and nearly obliterated the cavity of that vessel.” Another important case is very fully described by Bom- berg.* In reference to this subject some experiments performed by G-endrinf were formerly thought to be of considerable importance in demonstrating the capability of the coats of the artery giving rise to inflammatory exudation in the strict sense of the word. He found that on injecting an irritant substance into a portion of an artery included between two ligatures, and depiived of blood, a deposit of coagulable lymph took place, which covered the internal coat, and at last formed a plug filling up the channel. The lining membrane at first was only slightly discoloured, and through it a network of injected capillaries might be distinguished on the adhe- rent surface of this tunic to the middle coat. When the inflamma- tion had advanced this was no longer seen, the internal coat having become pulpy, rugous, and dull. The suppuration that followed did always coincide with ulceration of the inner coat; the pus, however, was not necessarily deposited in the vessel, but infiltrated into the cellular sheath, forming small abscesses. Similar experi- ments were made by Bigot and Trousseau with negative results; and by others with various consequences. Traumatic and Secondary Arteritis.—In the more common form of inflammation of arteries produced by laceration, pressure, ligature, or the inflammation of neighbouring parts, the outer and middle coats are chiefly or solely affected, and it is hence called by some periarteritis and mesarteritis. The outer coat is found brightly injected, and with the middle coat swollen and infiltrated with exu- dation, while the inner coat is thrown into folds, and ultimately becomes necrotic, and is detached. Diffuse suppuration may re- sult in the substance of the arterial walls. The blood contained m the vessel will ultimately coagulate, and thus produce all the con- sequences of arrest of circulation in the part which the vessel ^Results of Arteritis.—From the time of J. P. Prank,+ who first drew attention to the subject of arterial inflammation, to the most recent periods, various pathological conditions have been attributed to it; the acute forms have been repeatedly asserted to be the cause of trismus neonatorum, a disease which at present is one ot very rare occurrence among ourselves. Dr. West denies this cause, bu Dr Collis, § and recently Dr. Scholler|| satisfied themselves oi its real existence. The latter found inflammation of the umbilical * “ Manual of Nervous Diseases,” Sydcnlmm Society’s edition, vol. ii. P- 23S. + “ Histone Anatomique des Inflammations, vol. u. p. 13. t “ De curandis Hominiun Morbis,” vol. n. p. 363. § “ Dublin Hospital Reports,” vol. i. p. 2So. t> , a'Outrenont und J) “ Neue Zeitschrift fUr Gebuitskunde, herausgegeben i on Bu.ch, d Uut p Ritgen,” vol. v. p. 477.