127 DEGENERATIONS. disease in the connective-tissue corpuscles of the pia mater covering Jthe medulla oblongata, which is often found specially dark. Most lung pigment has a different origin, being carbon taken in •with the breath. That in the bronchial glands is doubtless the .».same substance, conveyed from the lung by the lymphatics. _ Waxy, Lardaceous, or Amyloid Degeneration.—This name is used I ' to denote a degeneration which may affect almost any organ of the body, but is most common in certain of the internal viscera. The I organs affected by it have, when the degeneration is far advanced, I a peculiar appearance, which is, even to the naked eye, quite itinctive of the disease. They are pale, more homogeneous than natural, somewhat translucent, and appearing generally as if soaked with some semi-transparent material. On section they .are found to be firm and unusually dry. This change is not, however, always so universal, but may affect only special parts’ of pai ticular organs. The change is found to be essentially due to xhe deposition in the affected structure of a peculiar material, the lature of which has been the subject of much discussion. Formerly supposed from its reaction with iodine to be allied to starch, and at mother time wrongly identified with cholesterine, it has now been .dearly shown to be a nitrogenous compound, of complex constitu- lon, belonging to the large group of albuminates. Its precise jomposition has not been determined, in consequence of the great ufnculty of obtaining it perfectly pure. It seems, however, to have i more complicated constitution than most albuminates. The vaxy substance is not altered by the action of water, and shows i remarkable resistance to ordinary putrefactive change. It is ^iso not dissolved by digestion with pepsin, as are other albuminous .ubstances; and this property has been made use of for its isolation, •-ts most remarkable chemical reaction is the change of colour pro- duced by the action of iodine. Parts which have undergone waxy .egeneration are stained by tincture or watery solution of iodine with potassium iodide) of a yellowish-brown, or sometimes a -arker mahogany-brown colour. This change is usually seen in ome of the elementary parts only, as in the smaller arteries, the lotnerali of the kidney, or sometimes in epithelial or glandular eus More rarely there is a general colouring, or what is most »uai, a general yellow tint is produced along with a darker colour t those parts more specially affected. These colours are dis- Jiguished from what iodine produces in healthy organs both y their greater intensity and by their greater permanence If w parts thus stained be further treated with dilute sulphuric ttLle yellowish-brown colour usually becomes nearly black urplish, or in rare cases actually blue.* ^ ’ ■Hrm ”derto obtain ablue °r purple colour in the iodine-stained stn«otnr»« h,. n. o,,n i f ,9V‘Phunc ttcld> the heat plan is first to soak the specimen (well?™, a r th° •Tik 1?ldlJute solution of iodine; then to place it under water whirl, from a purler of an inih ; and finally toTop IncenPa ed Tlfh U->? a UtUe Lo‘Sht “><-• ^face of the water ubovePthe spec^en mttfTwaya