ACTIVE HYPER2EMIA—DETERMINATION' OF BLOOD. 00 flow of blood through them become more free, till at length it is jquite manifest that they are traversed by both fuller and more rrapid streams than passed through them before the stimulus was (applied.” Mr. Wharton Jones’ observation is to the same effect: ■“In one case,” he says, “the arteries of the web were more or Jess constricted, the circulation sluggish, the blood in the capilla- rries here and there stagnant. A drop of the solution of sulphate jof copper with vin. opii was applied, whereupon the arteries im- nmediately became dilated, and the circulation brisk.” Dr. Williams, .in his work, so often referred to, had previously maintained and eclearly illustrated the same view. It may therefore be considered ^established that in active hypersemia one principal feature is ddilatation of the arteries; while in passive hyperaemia the veins aand the capillaries opening into them are dilated, and the arteries neither are not enlarged, or are constricted. Neuropathological Theory.—Now, it may very naturally be asked, iin what way does the stimulus applied bring about dilatation of tthe arteries? All that we know of the habits of contractile ttissues leads us to believe that they can only respond to a stimulus bby exerting their contracting power, and there is no known in- stance of active elongation. We know indeed, from the researches on the influence of nerves over vessels, which started with Claude IBemard, that division of the sympathetic branch supplying any vvessel, produces a paralysis of the vascular muscles which per- mits their easier dilatation, and hence a more rapid flow of blood tto the part; and Bernard himself also believes in an active (dilatation of the vessels as a consequence of a peculiar stimu- lation of the vasomotor nerves, though this is not generally (accepted. It has also been shown that the same effects on the (vessels may be produced by reflex nervous action, a fact very ■important for our present purpose. The theory was long ago proposed that the stimulus, acting on the sensory nerves of the part, excited in them a state, which, being communicated to the vasomotor centre, was reflected on the vascular nerves, occasion- ing them to become paralyzed, and therewith the contractile coat of the vessels also. This theory (the neuro-pathological) has lately received much support from the physiological experiments of [Ludwig and others, and is accepted without hesitation by Dr. Burdon Sanderson.* When under ordinary circumstances a •stimulus applied to a part produces increased activity of the capillary circulation, it is impossible to distinguish between the effects of irritation of the tissues themselves and irritation applied 'to the extremities of the sensory nerves. If, however, a sensory nerve trunk be divided, and the central portion irritated by feeble induced currents of electricity, the same phenomena of active hhyperfemia are observed. The congestion is similar to that pro- duced by section of the sympathetic, but more intense, and is • Holmes’s “ System of Surgery,vol. v.: article “ Inflammation,” p. 729.