TUBEKCULAK MENINGITIS. 243 proliferation of the original tissue cells; but there is not yet a perfect agreement as to their precise parentage. Virchow and Eindfleisch described them as due to multiplication of the nuclei normally existing in the outer coat of the artery; while Dr. Bastian, resting on later researches into the anatomical structure of the peri-vascular sheaths, regards them as proceeding from the epithelial cells (endothelia of the Germans) lining these cavities. Accompanying Inflammatory Changes.—The, inflammatory pro- ducts associated with tubercular meningitis do not usually differ much from those produced by other inflammations. Sometimes however, they show a much larger quantity than usual of mere granular amorphous matter and fatty molecules; while some- times they will be found to have undergone a true caseous metamorphosis, and to have become converted into what is called scrofulous or tuberculous matter. The tubercles themselves it may not be superfluous to repeat, are liable to undergo the same kmd of change, and in cases which are not perfectly acute may be found to have become fused into one amorphous mass with the surrounding parts. The rapid progress of the disease never gives time for actual softening or the formation of cavities Tubercular meningitis, like meningitis of the base proceeding from any other cause, is particularly liable to produce copious effusion into the ventricles, especially the lateral, of the brain, and hence has received the name of acute hydrocephalus; which, in the great majority of cases, means tubercular meningitis. J Causes and Antecedents of Tubercular Meningitis —This form of menmgitis is generally, some pathologists say always met with m connection with or secondary to tuberculosis or other organs; though we see it occasionally in the idiopathic form, as in the instance from which our delineation was taken where no tubercular deposit was found in any of the viscera beside the brain. In the former case, the tubercular deposit may take place so insidiously as to offer no marked inflammatory symptoms during life; and it is only on the dissecting-table that the physician becomes aware of the cerebral disease. It must there fore, he borne m mind, that scrofulous children have a tendency to become afflicted m this manner. Meningeal tubercle being always of the miliary or discrete form is but one variety of that acute tubercular process which has been thought of late years to fclTTu TfviV° tr> flo-onerutiyo changes of various kinds, iaking the definitions of such changes in a very wide sense if T 1 w {°r\that ™cmnSeal tubercle is only in the rarest cases found to be the original morbid process. The antecedent disease fom oA r?8’ h?WCVOr’ tub/"c]0 of «tlier ^'gans, but may be any If degenerative or scrofulous inflammation, or anything which results in the formation of caseous masses; such as LraS miymphatm glands, leading to so-called scrofulous1 ^eiSsits caseous or scrofulous pneumonia of the lun^s caries of v,™ ep<?®}t8> * * *•» « r»ts; «* perhaps