PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES OF THE LIQUOR SANGUINIS. 15 sioned not by the corpuscular elements cohering together, as was once supposed, but by the solidification of one of the constituents of the fluid portion of the blood. Muller’s experiment of filtering frog’s blood, so as to separate the corpuscles, was decisive as to this point. The substance which thus spontaneously solidifies is termed fibrine, and the name evidently has reference to an inherent tendency which it possesses of assuming a fibrous arrangement. Fibrine, when separated from healthy blood, is a tough, tolerably film, elastic, stringy, whitish-grey looking substance. It is insoluble in water, and sinks in this fluid, or even in the serum from which it has been separated. Under the microscope it appears as an homogenec -granular or basis substance, with more or less marked tendency to fibrillate, or form actual fibres. The white corpuscles of the blood are very commonly seen imbedded in the fibrinous mass, but they do not appear to contri- bute to modify its character. This, at least, is true of healthy fibrine ; of diseased we shall presently speak. Lehmann describes as follows the actual process of coagulation of the fibrine as seen under the microscope. He says: “ There appear here and there individual points or molecular granules, from out of which very soon extremely fine straight threads spring, which go off in a radiating manner from that point, but do not form star-shaped masses, as in crystallization; these threads elongate themselves gradually more and more, and cross with those which have pro- ceeded from other solid points, so that at last the whole field of view appears as it were covered over with a fine, but somewhat felted network. Afterwards this network still proceeds to thicken, and the colourless corpuscles imbedded in it are often scarcely perceptible.” With regard to its chemical composition Lehmann remarks very properly that fibrine, such as we obtain, cannot by any means be considered as a pure substance ; it must contain the white corpuscles, and probably some amount of albumen and extractive matter, as well as salts. The nearest approximation to an exact analysis gives— C 52-6 H 7-0 N 17-4 O 21-8 S 1-2 100 . while the albumen of the blood serum contains — C 53'5 II 7 0 N 15-5 0 22-4 S 1-6 100