CANCER OF THE STOMACH. 572 the order in which we have placed them, to be the seat of cancer. Fibrous cancer, i.e.. scirrhus, undoubtedly is the most common, or, as we are inclined to think, a combination of scirrhus with col- loid. Medullary cancer ranks next, according to Rokitansky,* and areolar or colloid last. Re notices the frequent primary combi- nation, and the yet more frequent secondary, of scirrhus with en- cephaloid, or of both with colloid. Minute Characters of Scirrhus.—-The following description was taken from an exceedingly well-marked specimen of scirrhus pylori, in which the walls of the passage were so thickened as to be nearly an inch in diameter. The cut surface presented a whity greyish tissue, contrasting well with the injected mucous membrane, and exhibiting a distinct striation vertical to the axis of the canal. A section under the microscope showed greyish white bands, separated here and there by transparent gelatinous matter. The bands consisted of homogeneous faintly- mottled substance, occasionally divisible into fibres closely re- sembling those of organic muscle, and, like them, exhibiting elongated nuclei when treated with acetic acid. Towards the mucous membrane this close stroma was replaced by a loose fibroid tissue, forming circular loculi of various sizes, which were filled with very various forms of cell-growth. Among them granule cells were often apparent, but the main mass con- sisted of nuclei and low developments of them. Some large mother-cells were seen, containing several well-formed nuclei and granulous matter: in the interspaces between the fibrous bands these mother-cells had attained a gigantic size, and appeared to constitute the loculi; one of them was distinctly bifurcated at its narrow end, and the branches wei’e of some length. In this ease, we consider that there was a combination of colloid with scirrhus, the former being constituted by the cellular substance. In Or. Bennett’s “Observation,” xxi.,f the alteration which had taken place in 11 the walls of the stomach was wholly of a fibrous charac- ter.” No cancer cells were detected, only elongated and fusiform nuclei; but they were numerous in the enlarged mesenteric and lumbar glands. This latter circumstance is, we think, decisive of the truly malignant nature of the morbid change in ihe stomach, and. such a case may then be regarded as one of pure scirrhus. . . ,, Distinction from Simple Induration.—In such cases, wliere tn scirrhus-like hardening of the pylorus does not present the minute characters of true cancer, the tumour may be either one of a different species, e.g., a sarcoma, or else result irom the process known as fibroid induration; nevertheless, it mu» be remembered that true scirrhus may, at a certain stage, exhibit over a considerable extent of its bulk, an entirely non-cellu a structure, and it is only by examining other portions where * Forster, however, lias found medullary cancer the most frequent, f “ Cancerous and Cancroid Growths,” p. 46. Edinburgh, lb49.