779 ABNORMAL CONDITION'S OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. structure, with cells of epithelial aspect, such as has been described in the first part of this work; the cells are usually rather small than large. In some cases it has been thought that some indica- tion of glandular structure existed, which connects these growths with such as arise from the foetal glandular structure of the ovary, and with the rudimentary Graafian follicles. Secondary cancer may occur by extension of the disease from neighbouring parts, as the uterus' or Fallopian tubes; more rarely from distant organs. Sarcoma of the spindle-celled variety has been several times observed in the ovary. It sometimes appears to be combined with carcinoma, and in that case it is assumed that the sarcomatous element comes from the stroma of the ovary, the carcinomatous from the epithelium of the Graafian follicles, or the rudimentary forms of those structures. A melanotic tumour, probably sarcoma, has been described. Tumours of the Ovary.—Fibrous tumours are not very uncom- mon, and sometimes reach a large size. Rokitansky describes a form of fibrous or fibroid tumour, which originates in degeneration of a menstrual corpus luteum. Fibroid, or fibro-muscular tumours, like those of the uterus, also occur; but caution is necessary not to mistake for these uterine tumours which have become detached. Cartilaginous and bony tumours have been described, but were probably only a part of dermoid cysts. Angioma has been observed in one case (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” xx. 203). No other forms of sim- ple tumour are known to occur in the ovaries; a remarkable fact, if we consider the presumed reproductive energy of these organs. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. Inflammation, Salpingitis.—The Fallopian tubes are liable to various forms of inflammatory action. Catarrh and exudative in- flammation not unfrequently cause a temporary or permauent closure of their channel, which prevents conception, and may lead to dropsical accumulations and other morbid conditions. Thus the fimbriated extremities may become agglutinated to the ovaries, the broad ligament, or the uterus itself; or obliteration may occur at one or more points within the passage ; unless the mucous mem- brane of the part still patent be deprived of its functions, the continued secretion will cause distension, simulating a cyst forma- tion. We have seen a case of dropsy of the Fallopian tube, in which the distension amounted to about five inches in diameter. At other times, according to Rokitansky, several saccular dilatations form between the separate angles and projecting duplicatures of the tubal parietes, and give rise to an imperfectly loculated pouch, which, as in the former case, may contain mucous matter of a more or less purulent character, or fluid of an heterogeneous con-