FUEliPERAL FEVER, OR PY.EMIA. 796 The blood is then infected by means of the diseased lymphatics; no mechanicul transference of emboli takes place, but an injection by means of fluids. The secondary affections are inflammations of serous membranes; parenchymatous changes in the liver and kidneys and other organs, but no pulmonary abscesses. Much less frequently, according to Klob, is the uterine inflam- mation followed by thrombosis and inflammation of the veins. These affections will, however, as in other forms of pyieinia, lead to secondaiy abscesses in the iungs and other lesions. They arp, according to Klob, rarely combined with peritonitis. The lymphatic and venous affections may, of course, be combined. Specific Theory.—While some investigators hold that the mor- bid products introduced into the circulation, by the means just described, owe their poisonous character simply to their coming from parts either inflamed or septic, others hold that there is a specific poison which is conveyed in the one case by the lymphatics, in the other by the veins. This poison has been also asserted to be always attached to minute organisms; viz., micrococci or bacteria. This theory is founded on very careful observations by Kindtieisch, Klebs, Heiberg, and others. Having been able to confirm some of Heiberg’s observations in pyaemia, we are led to attach much value to his observations in puerperal fever, a malady which we have had little opportunity of studying. * The minute micrococci, or spherical bacteria, which have been found by Klebs on the surface of infected wounds, are seen also in the diphtheritic false membrane spoken of as occurring in puerperal endometi'itis. They have been further traced by Klebs and Heiberg into the lymphatics—both the larger trunks and the smaller vessels distributed on serous surfaces—and in lymphatic glands : also in the softened puriform thrombi of veins, and in the heart. Further, they have been traced in the secondary affections, viz., in the pulmonary abscesses, and in the abscesses of other parts. In serous inflammations they were found in large number in the exudation, sometimes making up even a larger mass than the pus and fibriue, and also in the lymphatics of the membrane. It appears then they can be traced through all the channels by which the morbid poison passes, from tho seats of primary inflammation into the system generally, and into the secondaiy morbid pro- cesses ; wherever the morbid poison can be traced there are the bacteria also. There remain, of course, the further questions where do these organisms originate, and how do they reach the wounded surface of the uterus; but tbe bearings of these observations on the contagious character of puerperal fever, and on its distribution in the body, are obvious. For a discussion of the questions con- nected with the contagious or epidemic character of the disease we must refer to works on obstetrics. * 11 Die Pucrperaleu und Pyiimisclien Processe,” von Hjalmar Heilnrg. Leipzig1, 1873.