INTESTINAL CHANGES IN DYSENTERY. 597 which may be easily detached.” The submucous tissue becoming infiltrated, gives rise to more or less numerous protuberances, on the internal surface of the intestines ; these “ correspond to those points of the mucous membrane, at which the morbid affection is most developed,” while in the intervening portion there is not much change beyond slight redness and swelling. The intestinal cavity is dilated by the pressure of exhaled gas upon the semi- paralyzed muscular coat, and contains a mixture of effused lymph and blood, together with mucous liquid and feces. Dr. Baly marks his second degree by the sloughing of the solitary glands, either principally or equally with the surrounding mucous mem- brane. In this way are formed either clear circular ulcers of various depth, or large excavations. The prominent rugae are chiefly affected. Rokitansky also remarks, that the affection of the follicles may predominate, and states that the anatomical con- dition is the same as that already described in connection with catarrhal inflammation as attendant upon lientery. In the third stage the protuberances are set more closely together, the mucous membrane investing them partly retains the same condition as in the former, partly ” is converted into a slough, which is here and there blended with desquamated epithelium “ and the exudation, and is firmly attached to them; it is of a dark-red, or blackish-brown, or greyish-green colour.” In some cases the infiltrated and thickened submucous tissue is in great part exposed, being covered here and there by the remnants of the mucous mem- biane, “in the shape of solitary, dark-red, flaccid, and bleeding vascular tufts, or as dilated follicles, which are easily removed.” .he protuberances are occasionally found to have coalesced, and the intestine then presents an uneven plicated surface, accompanied by an equal degree of infiltration and thickening of its parietes ; the mucous membrane is uniformly affected over a large extent, and tfieie are no free interstices. The contents of the intestine are of a dirty brown or reddish ichorous, foetid, flocculent, and grumous character. In the fourth and highest degree, the mucous membrane degenerates into a black, friable, carbonified mass, which may often be subsequently voided in the shape of tubular laminae (so-called mortification of the mucous membrane). The submucous cellular tissue appears to be previously infiltrated with venous blood, or a sero-sanguinolent fluid; or it is pallid, and the blood contained in its vessels is converted into a black, solid or pulveru- lent mass; subsequently it shows purulent infiltration, in conse- quence of the reactive inflammation which is induced in the lower, Healthy strata, for the purpose of eliminating the gangrenous portions. Dr. Baly’s third degree seems to correspond to the fourth or Kokitansky, he describes the mucous membrane as converted into a gangrenous slough, glands and all alike, the blood bein'* ark and coagulated in the submucous tissue. The prominent rugic are first and most severely affected, the intervening portions