VARIETIES OE SARCOMA. 171 history of these tumours, as far as is known, is nearly as follows : —They usually occur singly, are most frequent in youth, and very rare after middle age; they are of slow growth, cause no pain, and have no tendency to ulcerate. These tumours occur usually in connection with bone, and many of the growths on the jaws called epulis are of this kind, but in- stances are not wanting of their occurring primarily in other parts, as the eye, the'breast, and the peritoneum.* Such cases are,' however, pathological rarities. Myeloid tumours seldom grow again if completely extirpated, but local recurrence is always possible, and in a few cases the production of secondary growths m the internal organs has been satisfactorily demonstrated. It is impossible to refuse to such cases the epithet of malignant, but m general a .favourable prognosis may be formed as to a clearly marked myeloid tumour. Melanotic Sarcoma.—Some specimens of sarcoma, both of the round-celled and the spindle-celled varieties, are remarkable for the amount of pigment contained in them. They are among the tumours which have been described as melanotic cancer. Such forms originate most frequently from those parts of the body where pigment naturally occurs, as the skin, the choroid coat of the eye, ~.c\ Many of them, especially those from the eyeball, are in the highest degree malignant. Cysto-sarcoma. Cyst formation, combined with sarcoma, consti- tutes cyslo-sarcoma. Enlargement of the natural cavities and channels such as glandular acini or ducts, seems to be the process y which the cysts originate. Cysto-sarcomata mostly occur in the female breast and in the ovary, and the special forms belonging to thepe organs will be discussed in the special part of this work! It may be laid down as a general rule that such tumours are sar- comata in which a cystic growth occurs, and that this growth does not alter their general characters or probable history, which will to bf k ° til0 particular sPe°ies °f sarcoma to which they may happen Psammoma.—-We may also here allude to a class of tumours peculiar to the brain and its appendages, which are usually classed under the head of sarcoma. Their characteristic feature is the occurrence of calcareous matter, or “ brain sand,” in the centre of small concentric lobules. They are not uncommon, and seem to produce, under ordinary circumstances, no symptoms whatever • it is only when they attain an excessive size that they have anv pathological importance. Their consideration comes more nronerlv under the head of the special pathology of the brain. * y/toma.-This seems the proper place for giving some account l*da98 of tumours peculiar to the brain and similar nervous structures, which aro formed on tho typo of, and in fact develoned from, the interstitial substance which forms the connectivJ-tissuo • Virchow. “ Dio Krunkhaften GeachwUlstc,” u. 338.