ABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 32 life, reduced to this low ebb, continues in an atmosphere ■which would cause instant suffocation if the animal were awake. Man does not hybernate, but it seems highly probable that the system must temporarily have been in a similar state in those cases in which life has been restored after prolonged immersion for half an hour or more. In persons affected with the morbus caruleus, when, from some malformation, the pulmonic and systemic circulations are no longer kept distinct, we have the best oppor- tunities for observing the effect of an unnaturally venous condition of the blood. The following excellent description is given by Dr. Williams:—“Individuals thus affected are in a lower scale of animation. The slower processes of nutrition and secretion seem to go on pretty well, but the muscular power is low, slight exertions bring on symptoms of faintness, palpitation, suffocation, or insensibility, the animal heat is lower than natural, and there is greater suffering from the influence of cold. In short, all the powers of body and mind are slender, and are easily dis- ordered by any circumstances which tax their activity. In a few that reach mature age there is no sexual passion The subjects of cyanosis are said to be very liable to haemor- rhages, and when these occur spontaneously, or from acci- dental causes, it is very difficult to stop them. This must be ascribed to the deficiency of fibrine, which we have already found to occur where the changes of the blood by respiration are imperfect.” In what way does accumulation of carbonic acid in the blood prove fatal to life ? We find, after death from asphyxia, the left side of the heart comparatively empty, and its cavities con- tracted, the right side gorged with biood, as well as the veins generally; the lungs are also distended, and gorged with dark blood. Now, it has been shown that the essential cause of the failure of the circulation is not paralysis of the heart, or of the brain, though these may have some influence, but arrest of the blood in the capillaries of the lungs. _ „ . How this arrest is produced we have not sufficient positive information to enable us certainly to explain, but we see that it is a phenomenon of the same class as that congestion which has been mentioned as often occurring when the function of a part is suddenly put a stop to; or, as Dr. Carpenter expresses it gene- rally, ‘ ‘ the performance of the normal reaction between the blood and the surrounding medium (whether this be air, water, or solid organized tissue) is a condition necessary to the regular move- ment of the blood through the extreme vessels.” The correctness of this position is almost demonstrated by the following experi- ment of Dr. Reid. Having adapted an hcemadynamometer to systemic artery of an animal, and obstructed its respiration, he found that when non-oxygenated blood was beginning to circu- late, as shown by the commencing supervention of insensibility, the column of mercury in the tube was raised, indicating, of