200 ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF TUBERCLE. are given by Valentin,* from post-mortem examination, and a case in winch a similar conclusion was arrived at from the clinical history is recorded by Murchison.t In some cases acute tubercu- losis appears as if it were a primary or idiopathic disease; never- theless, minute investigation has never, in the editor s experience, failed to detect some results of antecedent inflammation, such as caseous lymphatic glands, cavities in the lungs, or ulceration of mucous surfaces; or even simple inflammation, as pleurisy. It may, however, be fairly objected that the bodies of few person*, such as those who usually die in hospitals, will be free from evidences of bygone inflammation, whatever may have been the disease to which they ultimately succumbed. In one remarkable and probably unique instance of auto-inoculation with caseous matter caused by the opening of a softened “ scrofulous gland direct into a vein, the disease which resulted was not tuberculosis, but pymmia.t The consequences, however, of gradual absorption of the same material might be very different from those of rapid It has also been a matter of discussion whether the general infection was due to the passage into the blood of some special chemical substance, or of material particles; and difference of opinion has also arisen as to whether the poison was to be considered as specific, that is, the result of one kind of original disease only, or as the product of ordinary inflammation. , „ , Artificial Production of Tubercle.—Of late years it has been found possible to produce tubercle artificially in animals previously healthy, and the results thus obtained are of great value m modifying our ideas of the nature of the disease. Yillemin (I860) first made systematic experiments m this direction. He found that when masses of finely-divided tubercle, yellow or giey, or the products of scrofulous affections, were introduced under the skin of certain animals, especially rabbits and gumea-pigs, the result was, beside a certain amount of local mflaimnution, that on killing the animals after two or three weeks miliary tubercles were found in the lungs. The same appearances were seen after a somewhat longer time in the intestines and peritoneum The conclusion drawn by Yillemin from these experiments was that tuberculosis must be classed as a specific mfective^se^e. capab o of being conveyed by inoculation, like small-pox or syphiis. These experiments have been repeated by very numerous patholo- gists and after much discussion the positive results of \ illeuim have'beeu confirmed, viz., that it is possibie by the ^a^he em- ployed to produce miliary granulations in the lungs and^other organs, and that these granulations aie an^ ‘ ^ same with miliary tubercle. It was, however, soon found that the - results were attained by the subcutaneous inoc • Virchow’s “ Archiv + “ Trans. Path. Soc. X “ Trans. Path. Soc. xliv. p. 29P. vol. xx. 1SS9, p. liL vol. xxii. 1S71.