714 DEPOSITS AND CONCRETIONS IN TIIE URINARY TRACT. of removing calculi from the Llarlder, and may be safely carried to the extent of permitting a stone one inch and a half in diameter to be extracted. Paralysis, however, has sometimes resulted, and consequent incontinence of urine from excessive dilatation. Pro- lapsus of the bladder alters the direction of the canal of the urethra, so that it passes upwards and forwards. There is no essential difference between catarrhal inflammation of the female and of the male urethra ; it is generally consecutive to a similar condition of the vagina. The lips of the meatus are seen to be swollen, and on pressure upwards muco-pus flows from the orifice. Stricture is very rarely, indeed, the result of inflamma- tion, which appears to be owing chiefly to the circumstance that the disease in the female is not of long duration. Mr. Curling met with a case in which a stricture, attended with complete retention of urine, was produced by contusion experienced during a severe labour. The vascular tumour of the meatus is thus described by Sir Charles Clarke : “ Its texture is seldom firm ; it is of a florid scarlet colour, resembling arterial blood; and if violence is offered to it, blood of the same colour is effused. It is exquisitely tender to the touch; and if an accurate examination of it be made, it appears to shoot from the inside of the urethra. Its attachment is so slight that it appears like a detached body lying upon the parts.” Sometimes the growths extend partially along the urethra, or may even be situated at the neck of the bladder. The tissues of the urethra occasionally undergo a kind of chronic hypertrophy, so as to form “a bulbous tumour.” The veins are enlarged and varicose, and the areolar tissue increased in quantity, while the mucous membrane may be either thick, or on the con- trary, thin and shining. A mucous discharge takes place from the canal and from the vagina. We are much inclined to consider this state as more truly deserving the name of chronic urethritis than that which Dr. Ashwell has so denominated, but which seems more of the nature of severe pruritus. It may also be com- pared to the state of the veins of the rectum, which gives rise to haemorrhoids. DEPOSITS AND CONCRETIONS IN THE URINARY TRACT. Various chemical substances are deposited from the urine under certain morbid conditions in different parts of the urinary tiact. We only notice here those which form masses visible to the naked Deposits in the Uriniferous Tubes.—Uric acid and urates, chieny urate of ammonia in a crystalline form, are sometimes found pre- cipitated in the straight tubes of the medullary portion of the kidney in new-born infants. The papillae and pyramids appear to the naked eye marked with yellow or orange lines, and sometimes