RUPTURE OF VEINS. 406 intellectual faculties were maintained, but the power of articula- tion was suspended. The child died ot pneumonia, supervening upon variola. The post-mortem examination exhibited the supe- rior longitudinal sinus converted into a hard cord, the veins in connection with which were filled with coagulated blood. The walls of the sinus were thickened, dense, and of a yellowish colour; it contained a solid clot; no further lesion was discovered m the cranium. . , ■Among the local cases of phlebitis not followed by generall infection0 of the blood, those of the hemorrhoidal veins are the! most frequent, though it is a complication much to be feared in all operative proceedings directed to their cure, as well as to that of varicose veins of the legs or spermatic cord. RUPTURE OF VEINS. Eupture of the large veins is an event veryrarelymet with; Haller* quotes a case of rupture of the vena cava inferior, attributed to eatino- ice ; but most of the instances recorded! were brought on by mechanical injury. The rupture of smaller veins often occurs as a result of sudden and forced distension. Thus small ecchymoses are frequently brought on in the conjunctiva by violent coughing. The veins of the lower extremities have been found ruptured by? spasms of the muscles of the calves. The haemorrhage that con- stitutes epistaxis, the menstrual, and heemorrhoidal discharges, is rather analogous to the process of exosmosis, than a result ot actual rupture, and therefore is rather more immediately connected with the capillary, than the venous circulation. A spontaneous rupture of larger veins occasionally results as a secondary conse- quence of varices. The sanguineous tumom-s m the labia of preg- nant and parturient women are attributable to this cause, a= a1' the laceration of varicose veins of the extremities, with or without coincident ulceration. DILATATION OF VEINS. Dilatation or varicosity of the veins is a subject attracted the attention of pathologists from the days of Hippo- crates who already distinguished between two kinds, which he termed heemorrhois and cirsus. The affection is also treated of by writers under the generic term of phlebectasis. It consists mam } in an enlargement of the calibre of the vessels, and mav or ma.+ not be accompanied by an alteration m their coats. Briquet t ; ^of rupturo of the vena cava + James ivennuuy um eooev..— - .coo inferior in “ London Medical Repository, vol. XX- t “ Histoire des Inflammations, vol. u. p. 9, el seq.