CANCER OF THE BRAIN. 279 the surrounding mass, especially if, as often happens, the latter have undergone some softening. Sometimes on the other hand, the external parts acquire a very considerable hardness, and a sort of firm, fibrous capsule is formed, enclosing the caseous masses. As to their minute structure, the younger and softer parts are principally composed of cells, usually round, with rather large nuclei, imbedded in a scanty, granular or sometimes fibrillated intercellular substance. When the fibrous element predominates, the cells are rather spindle-shaped or stellate. The degenerated portions show an imperfect, fatty metamorphosis, being composed of amorphous material derived from atrophied cells, and punctated with fatty molecules. This description (which we have taken from Yirchow) obviously agrees in many points with that of cerebral tubercle, and the distinction is, as has been said, often very diffi- cult. According to the same authority, the tubercular mass is usually more perfectly round than the syphilitic, which either has the form of the part in which it occurs, or else has a very irregular outline. Further, the larger portion of the tubercle is usually compound of caseous material, the younger and undegenerated portions being so inconspicuous as to be often overlooked, while the syphilitic gummata consists in great proportion either of fresh granulation-tissue or of a fibrous mass, the caseous portions being inconsiderable, and they never soften in the centre. It is also diffi- cult to distinguish syphilitic growths from some forms of -sarcoma and glioma in the condition of fatty degeneration. It should be remembered that syphilis is very liable to give rise, beside its peculiar or specific products, to other morbid formations which are not distinguishable from the products of ordinary inflam- mation or hyperplastic growth. Thus in the case of a syphilitic growth connected with the pons Yarolii, recorded by Mr. Robinson, the report of Mr. Hulke on its minute anatomy, states that histo- logically it was not distinguishable from a glioma.* CANCER. Next in frequency to tubercular deposit we find the various forms of cancer, all of which, excepting the epithelial variety, are met with in the brain. There are no symptoms peculiar to the disease, beyond the effects resulting from pressure; and even they do not appear to be in any way commensurate with the size of the deposit. The form which it assumes is that of infiltration, without any definite limits, or of a tumour surrounded by a cyst; in the former case, there seems to be a complete replacement of cerebral tissue by cancerous growth. In other cases capillary hsemorrhage and softening, or sometimes induration of the brain substance is observed around the tumour. The size of the growths varies; • “ Trans. Path. Soe.,” 1869, vol. xx. jp. 17 an 1 21.