ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PHARYNX. 551 small veins and adjacent capillaries, and is of a darker tint. M. Chomel has described one form of this alfection, in which the mucous follicles are specially the seat of morbid action. He says the arch of the palate is seen to be covered by small red points, which are more thickly disseminated on and near the uvula. These become more numerous and larger as the disease advances, till at length they run into each other, forming ridges and raised patches, between which only a small part of the mucous membrane retains its natural appearance. It occurs much more frequently in males than females, and chiefly between the fifth and seventeenth years. Croupy inflammation sometimes extends to the pharynx and commencement of the oesophagus, and, on the Continent at least, diphtheritic exudations are by no means infrequent in this situation. They are essentially similar to those which form on the buccal mucous surface, which have been already described. The pustules of variola are occasionally met with in the pharynx, and those which are caused by large doses of tartar emetic, in the lower third of the oesophagus. Fibrous tumours originating in the submucous or deeper-seated areolar tissues may grow inward, and obtaining an investment of mucous membrane hang down into the oesophagus in the form of a polypus. Sometimes they remain without thus protruding, in the submucous tissue. Tuberculous disease is very rarely found in the pharynx or oesophagus. Cancer is more frequent in the oesophagus than in the pharynx, in the proportion of thirteen to four; in the former it mostly affects the upper part just below the larynx ; in both parts it almost always assumes the form of infiltrated scirrhue, trom an ulcerated basis of which soft fungoid growths may after- wards sprout. In the pharynx, according to Dr. Waishe, it generally presents, at least in the early period, “ a hard imperfectly circumscribed mass,” which may form a tumour visible externally. In the oesophagus it mostly constitutes an annular layer, constrict- ing the canal for a variable distance, and often by extending outward producing adhesion of the diseased mass to the spinal column. We have observed one instance in which encephaloid cancer in this situation had proceeded to a considerable extent without producing any symptoms. In the oesophagus of a man who died with peritonitis there was a thick mass of encephaloid, ulcerated on the surface surrounding the lower part of the canal just above the cardiac orifice of the stomach for an inch and a half. It had evidently originated in the submucous tissue, and grown inward, not contaminating the other coats. Higher up there were several smaller submucous tumours. Rokitansky men - tions the formation of ulcerated openings communicating with the trachea and the bronchi, or even with the aorta and the right pulmonary artery. Epithelioma of the pharynx hardly occurs excopt in connection with the same disease in the mouth, and propagated from there.