CHAPTER XLYI. ADVENTITIOUS GROWTHS IN BONE. EXOSTOSES. Osseous growths, consisting of true bone, are divided into exostoses and osteophytes ; the difference being marked raiher by their form and their cause, than by the etymology of the terms, or their proximate constitution. Rokitansky defines exostosis as a purely bony mass, set upon a hone, forming with it an organic whole, and, where it is possible, originating or pro- ceeding from the hone; when its development is complete, and often at the beginning of its growth, its texture is homologous with that of its base and point of origin, whether compact or spongy. The former is the most frequent; and it attains a hard- ness which has given rise to the term of ivory exostosis ; while its colour is generally whiter than that of the hone from which it springs. Of the density of these exostoses, the best proof is that operators are sometimes unable to remove them; in St. George’s Hospital Museum we find an exostosis from the orbit which sloughed off on the application of caustic, though Sir Astley Cooper had previously failed in sawing it off; there is another specimen in the same museum, about one inch and a-half in diameter, which took one hour to remove, and more than one saw was spoiled during the time. The exostosis may he entirely sessile, or it resembles a mushroom in its mode of growth, pre- senting a constriction at its base, which, though it may penetrate deeply, is so fine as to be imperceptible during life. The surface of these exostoses is smooth, and their outline is commonly a segment of a circle, or of an ellipse their cause is an idiosyncrasy of the individual not referable, as far as we can trace, to any definite constitutional taint. Some of the hard exostoses we meet with are manifestly mere hypertrophies of the normal prominences of the bone upon which they are seated; thus we see the tuberosity of the tibia, the styloid process and similar parts, give rise to these formations. The bones of the skull are the most ordinary site of hard