DEGENERATIONS OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE HEART. 331 fatty degeneration of the heart and diseased coronary arteries; apoplectic effusion into the substance of the organ, rupture, dilata- tion, and aneurism of the heart, are found in constant connection with this affection. It is thus one of the most important causes of sudden death.* Fibroid degeneration, or transformation of the heart substance, usually occurs in cases of hypertrophy. Dr. Wilks has pointed out that it is far more common in the right ventricle than in the 1 left, when thus affected; and that in most cases of hypertrophy of the left ventricle there is no change in the consistency of the walls. While this is doubtless true, we believe it to depend upon the fact ! that so many cases of left-sided hypertrophy are due to some cause outside the heart itself. When this is due to valvular disease, or accompanies endocarditis, or pericarditis, the left ventricle also i may be found much altered in consistency. In this form of dege- : neration the muscular substance is pale, as in fatty degeneration ; but hard and rigid, so that the cavities retain after death the form due to distension. It is also torn with difficulty, and has been described as leathery. Minute examination shows these changes to depend on replacement of the muscular fibres by newly-formed fibrous tissue, so that the condition differs chiefly in its universality : from that previously described as the result of myocarditis. A heart thus affected is evidently as little capable of performing its functions as one in which there is fatty degeneration; and hence this condition also appears to be a cause of sudden death. It is commonly associated with enlargement of the heart; and the ; question will sometimes arise whether the fibroid growth causes the enlargement, producing a false hypertrophy ; or whether it is ■ a further result of the same pathological process as that which has produced the hypertrophy itself. . Granular degeneration, or brown atrophy of the heart substance, is a rare condition; but one of which unquestionable instances sometimes occur. It consists in the deposition of brown particles between the fibrilke of the muscular substance. This seems to : depend originally upon a sort of fatty degeneration, fat being deposited, and then metamorphosed into these brown granules. (Virchow), f Waxy, or amyloid degeneration of the heart substance, is very rarely met with, and only accompanying the same condition in other organs. We have seen but one case. The name waxy, or bacony degeneration, has also been given to the condition which we have described as fibroid. vol j umerouscasc‘i bearing on this subject are noticed in “Trans. Fatli. Soe.,” 1853, t MS. notes of lectures.