731 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS. scales, with very abundant amorphous and oily matter, and small, delicate vesicular globules; others again contained a clear fluid, and a soft, whitish pulp, consisting almost entirely of small oil- laden, granulous vesicles. The stroma enclosing the cyst cavities consisted of a dense fibroid substance. Haemorrhage may take place into a number of the cysts at different places, as is well seen in a beautiful specimen of the disease in St. George’s Museum. In this case the testis was enclosed in a common covering—pro- bably the tunica albuginea—along with the tumour, and lay at one side of it; in other cases, the glandular structure was expanded over the growth. There was no contamination of the glands, nor, as far as known, any return of the disease, in the patient from whom the tumour just mentioned was removed. In those rare cases in which the appearance of a cystic sarcoma of the testicle has been followed by secondary growths in the lungs and elsewhere, these visceral growths are generally made up of the same spindle-cell tissue as that forming the fleshy stroma of the primary cystic tumour, and are rarely themselves cystic. Such 1 tumours have been commonly described as mixed cancerous and : simple cystic growths in the testicle. Enchondroma.—It has been mentioned that small masses of t enchondroma are occasionally developed between the cysts. The f tendency to the development of cartilage—usually of a foetal, • hyaline type, but with smaller and more crowded cells—in most ■ new formations in the testicle is singularly marked, the testicle i resembling in this respect the parotid gland. This admixture of i cartilage with the other connective-tissue elements of the sarcoma- t tous tumours is also commonly to be traced, although in a less degree, _ in the secondary growths in the viscera and lymphatic .glands in cases of diffusion of the disease. The cysts are supposed 110 ta^e their origin generally in a dilatation of the seminiferous ; tubules, but they probably also arise from a softening of the s sarcoma tissue, or collection of fluid between its histological ele- •rnents, as seen in other cystic growths elsewhere. They never contain spermatozoa, and the lining epithelium does not resemble ■that lining the seminal tubules; indeed, in one reported case* the cysts were lined with ciliated epithelium. We have seen a 'cholesteatoma, or pearly epidermic tumour, in the epididymis -attached to the testicle. Osseous growths are unknown in the testicle, the nearest approach to bony structure being an occasional infiltration of the fibrous i or cartilaginous tissues with bone salts. True fibroma of the testis seems to be of almost equally rare occurrence. Mr. T. Holmes has recorded one instance of a large afibrous growth of the tunica vaginalis, the size of a cocoanut, close above the testis, of thirty-three years’ growth; and Mr. Haward exhibited at the Pathological Society of London, in 1872 a speci- men of genuine firm fibroma springing from the tunica albuginea, * “ Tians. Tath. Soc.,” vol. vii. p. 241.