6G0 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TOE THYROID GLAND. shrivels “ into a hard, cellular, filamentous knot, which adheres firmly to the skin and the surrounding parts. Sometimes the shrivelling of the one gradually brings on wasting of the other lobe.” Andral states that acute tumefaction of the thyroid may come on after violent exertion. Simple enlargement of the thyroid is frequent, says Hasse, and for the most part inconsiderable; but it implicates the entire gland, and thus may cause greater disturbance than a more extensive tumour of another kind. “ Both lobes of the gland, and even the middle one, swell so as to encroach equally on each side, against the trachea and vessels of the neck.” The affection is almost wholly confined to youth, and is frequent about the age of puberty in both sexes—more so, however, in the female, in whom enlargement is especially apt to prevail at the approach of the menstrual period. The essence of simple hypertrophy seems to be the derangement of the equilibrium naturally existing between the processes of secretion and absorption that continually go on in the gland. "When the former predominates, the vesicles, and of course the whole organ, become distended. Enlargement of the thyroid, especially of its vascular system, accompanied by violent pulsation of the heart and prominence of the eyeballs, constitutes the disease known as exophthalmic ^ Chronic Enlargement, Bronchocele or Goitre.—In the chronic and permanent enlargements of the thyroid a more considerable amount of change takes place. The vesicles of the gland are not only un- tended by excess of their natural secretion, but, besides being greatly enlarged, are filled with calcareous, atheromatous, and other matters. It is probable that some new vesicles are fonned as well as old ones enlarged. Hasse makes two. separate varieties of melicerous degeneration and cystic formation; but we think they run so much into one another that they may be classed together. In the pure melicerous degeneration the secretion which distends the vesicles, and some of them much more than others^is a tenacious, jelly-like substance, of the colour of honey. Ihe vessels seem to be usually compressed, so that the gland appears bloodless. The change is sometimes limited to certain portions, an interesting instance of the power which the vitality of eac in- dividual elementary part has in determining the character of it. actions. In the more common cases of enlarged thyroid the vesicles contain, beside colloid matter, more or less inspissate* or fluid, varying quantities of calcareous, often ossiform substance- Tablets of cholesterine and other fatty matter seem to be n unfrequently present, probably as the result of fatty degenera i.on. An instance related by Dr. Haen shows the great vane y appearance which the contents of the cysts may present. He says that in a frightfully enlarged thyroid he found almost every variety of tumour existing together. “ Heie was a steato , an atheroma, in another place a purulent tumour, in another an