425 NEW GROWTHS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Anceima Lymphatica ; Hodgkin's Disease.— Cases are sometimes met with in which there is an enlargement of many lymphatic - glands throughout the body, and at the same time masses of new - growth resembling lymphatic tissue are formed in internal organs, especially the spleen. These changes have been supposed to indi- cate a special disease analogous to, but not identical with leuchtemia, (since there is no increase in the white corpuscles of the blood); but we are here only concerned with the changes in the lymphatic glands. These have been described in very different terms by different observers, the variations depending apparently upon the stage of development at which they happened to be examined, as w7ell as upon the preponderance or subordination of cell-growth. More- ovei, it is not certain that really different processes may not, as producing similar symptoms, be included under the same name. When different stages of development are met with in the same body find the earlier forms (in the smaller glands) much, more .. vasculai and softer than the more advanced, which are pale, tough, and elastic, and often almost homogeneous and translucent, or even waxy m appearance. The minute characters correspond to these external differences. We find in the smaller forms a great ' n ,anCe °f cells’ and these not always like ordinary lymphoid cells, but often larger and irregular in shape; while myeloid or - giant cells are not unfrequently seen, as in other hyperplastic con- ditions of the lymph glands. When the gland increases in size the cehs multiply, but are individually smaller, and abundant nuclei aie produced. In this stage the structure has been described as hT°—nucleated In more advanced stages the stroma increases, while the cells dimmish relatively, and probably actually waste, ine Danas of the stroma at the same time increase greatly in width , the appearance characteristic of chronic inflammation of the glands or adenoid tissue with preponderance of intercellular sub- ™e is produced (see Fig. 95.) The latter change may ulti- mately reach so extreme a degree that the whole substance appears !ZnkiUnder t lG lni£roscoPe ,almost homogeneous, and much re- y es a. I)art affected with lardaceous degeneration, though 2r,Pr0duCeS 110 VhanSe- This condition has hence been de- [ un„ e< as °ne Produced by albuminous exudation. It is not known that any further transformation takes place, since the [ fands do not become affected with caseous degeneration, soften- apDroachCaiC1^VFtl0n’ scr°fulous glands; only some slight UeenP 'f * rthnS con(,lltlon belng occasionally observed. No f peculiarity of chemical constitution is known to exist describeda;TBCSid,*mh° tumoui's calied lymphosarcoma, already chSctei o7tf!'OV may ^uSe 111 thf ^ilnds wldcb have the Thr r i °f true sarcoma, either round-celled, or spindle-celled unf,ftr°^ritO,,10al glands’ uear the bead of the pancreas are not infrequently the seat of a growth of this kind which oftm! rifcct. the liver. Other ,imilar grewlhe oceur ia £