721 HYDROCELE. times much distended, so as to form a pouch, which projects on the inner side of the gland. The morbid action in hydrocele is confined to the serous membrane; the testis either remains natural, or is somewhat flattened, and, in some cases, partially atrophied by the pressure of the fluid. When, however, the original seat of disease is in the gland itself, the serous covering is often secondarily involved, so that serous effusion in the sac is very often associated with chronic orchitis, or other diseases of the testicle ; and such a combination has been termed a hydro-sarcocele. Hydrocele seems to be met with on either side in about an equal proportion of cases. In congenital hydrocele the dropsical tunica vaginalis retains its foetal communication with the peritoneal cavity. Encysted hydrocele of the testis, as it is called, proceeds from the development of new cysts beneath the serous membrane. These are exactly similar to the simple cysts we have described, p. 156, having a wall of thin fibrous tissue, and a lining of tesselated epithelium, with usually limpid fluid contents. They may be situated “ (1) Fig. 171. beneath the visceral portion of the tunica vaginalis, investing the epididy- mis ; (2) between the testicular por- tion of the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea, which are thus separated from each other; (3) between the layers of the loose or reflected por- tion of the tunica vaginalis.” In the two last mentioned situations they rarely occur. When formed on the epididymis,-they sometimes carry the serous membrane outwards as they enlarge, so that they become pedun- culated, just as the small serous cysts in the neighbourhood of the ovary often do with the peritoneum. Mr. Curling states that these pedunculated cysts do not acquire a large size, seldom exceed- ing that of a currant. Several cysts may coexist in the same gland, and, when opened, produce the appearance of a sacculated arrangement. The walls of the cysts are liable to inflam- mation, which causes their contents to bo mingled with various exudations of serum, fibrine, or even blood. Sper- matozoa are very frequently present in the fluid of encysted hydroceles, to which they impart a milky or opaline opacity. They subside to the bottom of the vessel, where 3 A Encysted hydrocele of tunica vaginalis. (From Mr. Curling’s aitiole.) The cyst is between the tunica albuginea and the tunica vagina- lis of the testis.