242 TUBERCULAR MENINGITIS. in more chronic cases the signs of inflammation are very obvious, hut it may require prolonged and careful examination to discovu any trace of tubercle, if indeed it be discoverable at all. lms affection is well known to he common, and extremely fatal in childhood, and is also the most perfect example of the anatomical features of tubercular growth; so that on both clinical an<i ■pathological grounds it is worthy of careful study. Minute Anatomy of Meningeal Tubercle.—In order to examine the pia mater, in cases of tubercular meningitis, it is best re- moved by causing a moderately strong stream of water to play between the membrane and the brain. A small portion shou ( then he cut from one of the septa between the convoiutions, choosing that part where there is the least possible di^ = visible to the naked eye. On examination with ^ low power of the microscope it will at once be seen that the smalles tubercles are in very close connection with small blood-vessefa, and rather with the ultimate divisions of arteries than with veins or capillaries. They may he seen to form a distinct projection on the sides of these vessels, very frequently at a bifurcation, and are thus at once distinguished from the fibrous granulations sometimes met with, which are situated in the middle of the vascular meshes. The best specimens are sometimes seen on the small vessels P10Cee fug from the meninges into the brain ; which if the pa mater be removed, as above described, are very perfectly preserved. If the case be one of very rapid disease the tubercular growths are sevn quite sharply defined, but otherwise they are often covered by a quite snarp y cloud> which nothing can remove, and which PIG. 59. is due to the participation of the contiguous portions of the pia mate r proper m the mor- bid process. Often two adjacent vessels or branches become united, as represented in , the fio-ure. When examined with a higher power it can be seen that these projections are really covered by a delicate membrane, which expands from the vascular wall, and that they are in fact situated within a deli- cate sheath, which also encloses the artery. This sheath is in fact the pen-vascular ? of KrewtTire chiefly Sail colic (someyyhat arger ST. red Hood fo.ja.scl.) mth a surrounding the nucleus ; but * Xi iSS appearances are . see the excellent CnrA“oc.,'^ x^Cp. ,?81, Plate £ h “ ‘“d m.nvirr. “ Manuel d’flistologie l’ftthologique, p. 203.