654 ABNORMAL CONDITION'S OF THE SPLEEN. such as was tho spleen weighing 13^ lhs., before-mentioned, where nothing abnormal was found in the spleen or in the blood. In Rickets the spleen is often enlarged, when the disease has lasted a long time. The enlargement appears to be accompanied by something resembling albuminous infiltration, distinct from lardaceous disease. , „ ,, In Syphilis, especially in the congenital form, there is some- times enlargement, with or without distinct tumours. In scrofulous disease, and tuberculosis, a general enlargement is also ^ Obstructive disease of the heart sometimes produces enlargement with hypercemia of the spleen; but the engorgement is less marked than in the case of the kidneys, liver, and other organs, whose veins open into the vena cava direct, since, in the case of the spleen, the liver intervenes to break the force of the backward ^In^lntermittent fever enlargement of the spleen is constantly observed. The hypertrophy is accompanied by abundant deposit of pigment, orange, brown, or black, in free granules through the pulp, or sometimes enclosed in cells. It may also be deposited in the Malpighian bodies, and sometimes thus produces a remaikable spotted appearance. The frequent occurrence of pigment in the spleen is probably duo to its liability to hemorrhage, which s in all organs so constant a cause of pigmentation.* Acute swelling of the spleen is said also to accompany the febrile paroxysm, or aSIn Tcucocijthemia constant enlargement of the spleen takes place. The substance is often quite natural, sometimes paler than usuab and sometimes with a peculiar smooth lustrous appearance. Th; appears to be a general hypertrophy of the organ inl all its; part*. The largest spleens known are found in connection with t - disease. Separate masses of lymphatic structure sometimes occur in the spleen in this disease. They are white, crumbling or .oft, and composed chiefly of lymphatic corpuscles. , r Great enlargement of the spleen is seen m the disease before referred to as Hodgkin’s disease, or lymphatic ancemw, m ^hich the lymphatic glands, and often the bver, are also enlarged The spleen is found large and hard; while contained in its substance, and projecting on the surface, are white or yellowish masses, vaiy- ££ in size, of firm, tough, glistening substance, rarely soft and opaque, not crumbling. The larger are often irrcgularlyconi., l,l-o infarctions Beside these masses ordinary infarctions, w.tn obstructed arteries, are sometimes found The a^jiUhous ni^s consist of lymphoid cells imbedded m a stroma, like that o • - phatic gland, which sometimes becomes amorphous, gran . , . We may liere repair an omission mete portion is doubtless due to congestion and liteinorrlinge, as already stated on p. 163.