THE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. 13 patches seen on the skin along the course of veins or elsewhere. This too rapid decomposition may be regarded as a morbid pheno- menon, but it does not necessarily show that the same condition existed during life. The disease 'in which this 1 ‘ dissolved con- dition of the blood ” has been most constantly observed is diphtheria, but it occurs also in some cases of pyaemia, of typhus, and yellow fevers, and doubtless of other febrile complaints. The red globules of human blood exhibit a tendency to cohere together in such a manner as to form tolerably regular piles, or rouleaux; in the healthy condition the cohesion soon ceases, and is not nearly so strongly manifested as in the inflammatory state. Of this, indeed, it is quite characteristic that the globules form rows of some length, made up of numerous discs cohering together by their surfaces, and having their edges disposed so as to form a tolerably straight line. The cause of this tendency is not certainly ascertained, but Dr. Norris, of Birmingham, has shown that the cause must be physical rather than physiological, since discs of various materials, floating in a liquid, exhibit the same tend- ency. It is, however, essential that the discs should previously be wetted with a liquid antagonistic to that in which they are submerged. Causes of Variation.—While so much uncertainty prevails respecting the origin of the red corpuscles, it is not possible to point to any foregoing condition as specially tending to promote their growth and increase, or to occasion their atrophy. All that can be said is, that a proper constitution of the liquor sanguinis is certainly essential, as being the material out of which these floating cells are nourished and built up. If this be impoverished, or otherwise deteriorated, the corpuscles will not be properly developed; and again, by improving the quality of their plasma, their healthy condition will be restored. Of this we have a good example in those cases of chlorosis where the administration of iron is sufficient to reproduce the ruddy hue of the complexion. In other cases, a defective state of nervous influence, proceeding from some mental affection, occasions the atrophy of the red particles ; but we cannot tell whether this cause acts upon them primarily, or, as is more probable, through the medium of other organs and functions. There can be no doubt that the blood globules have an appointed period of existence, after which they naturally decay. This decay probably takes place in the general course of the circulation, at least in part. Evidence, however, has recently been adduced to show that the spleen is especially the seat of a destructive process, affecting the globules ; and that the yellow pigment matter, so frequently found in this organ, is, in fact, the remains of their altered blood-pigment. In the liver also the blood globules seem to yield up their colouring matter, to furnish the yellow pigment of the bile ; and the colouring matter of the urino is no doubt derived from the same source. The circumstance that so much pigmentary matter should by these