G50 NEW GROWTHS OF THE PANCREAS AND SALIVARY GLANDS. * Handheld Jones, “ Trans. Path. Soc.," vol. vi. p. 223. of the gland. In such a case wo shall find a very large quantity of coarse fibrous tissue surrounding and enveloping the lobes and lobules of the gland, the gland-tissue more or less atrophied, and the epithelium containing much oil. A peculiar case of parotitis has been described by Dr. \\ lekham Leg-g, in which the gland was found pale and not at all hypenemic, possibly through some change involving hypertrophy of the epi- thelium and anaemia, as in some cases of kidney disease. It occurred in the course of chronic morbus Brightu. (“Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xx. p. 183.) Fatty degeneration of the pancreas is described by ltokitansky as frequent in drunkards, associated with fatty liver. It is not, how- ever, a degeneration of the same kind, but rather, from his account, seems to take place by intrusion of the surrounding adipose tissue on the wasting organ. A case of fatty degeneration has been reported as occurring in diabetes. True fatty degeneration was observed in a case where the gland was found lax and flabbv with numerous dead whitish spots upon its surface. It was exceedingly degenerated, almost all trace of glandular structure being lost, and only an amorphous, granular, and oily mass remaining, m wiucn were a great many fatty masses containing numerous fat-vesicles here and there. The body was exceedingly emaciated, all the fat in the abdomen and elsewhere being absorbed.* Serous cysts occur occasionally in the pancreas, and the other salivary glands. Lardaceous degeneration may affect the pancreas, though rarely. NEW GROWTHS OF THE PANCREAS AND SALIVARY GLANDs. Cancer does not select these glands as one of its ordinary sites. It does, however, affect them not unfrequently both primarily and secondarily. Scirrhus and encephaloid are the only two forms which occur. It is probable that, m several of the cases reported as cancer of the parotid, the disease was really seated m some of the adjacent or imbedded absorbent glands. The head of pancreas, where it is embraced by the duodenum, appears to be the part of the organ most frequently affected. As a result of the growth of the tumour, the ductus choled. is sometimes obstructed, and jaundice is produced. The disease may extend much further than this, according to Dr. Walshe implicating ‘ the duodenum, the omentum, mesentery, liver, and even the supra-ienal caD and kidneys.” Bokitansky says, “that the secondary affections of the salivary glands, by an extension of the disease from adjoin 1Do- organs, and in the case of the pancreas especially, by an ex- tension from the scirrhous pylorus, is very common. The pancreas is very little liable to new growth of . . ‘ ' Cancer is said to occur, though very rarely, as a primitive growth and grows in the form of circumscribed tumours, while the rest o