NOX-SUPPURATIVE MYOCARDITIS. 327 losing their transverse situation. The amount of exudation or inflammatory material produced is not great, and is chiefly serous; but sometimes, as in the instances just mentioned, true suppura- tion takes place. The pus cells are in this case produced in the interstitial connective tissue between the muscular fibres, and there is no reason to think that the muscular elements themselves parti- cipate in their production. The loss of substance due to inflamma- tion may, if it occur immediately under the surface of the heart wall, tend to a kind of ulceration ; and in this case there is always simultaneous inflammation of the endocardium. If the same process affect the septum ventriculorum, it may lead to actual per- foration. In a case of general hypertrophy of the heart, accom- panied by enormous dilatation of the mitral orifice, and diseased aortic valves, which was exhibited at the Pathological Society in 1847, by Dr. J. B. Bennett, an opening of the size of a quill was found in the ventricular septum; this was surrounded by ulcera- tion, warty roughness, and thickening, and there were distinct traces of inflammation round the opening. Perforation may also result from the opening of an abscess externally, which produces pericarditis and rupture of the heart. Incomplete softening and destruction of the walls of the heart lead to the condition known as aneurism of the heart; that is, to partial dilatation and attenuation of the wall. It is, however, possible for the pus to become incap- sulated, when it either undergoes caseous or calcareous degenera- tion, or else is absorbed altogether. Iu general pyaemia, purulent collections are found in the heart, though not frequently; they do not differ from those which occur in other organs. Other causes sometimes give rise to suppuration of the heart. In a case recorded by Dr. Pye Smith,* this condition seems to have resulted from the breaking up of syphilitic growths, f XOX-.SUPPURATIVE MYOCARDITIS. There is a form of inflammation of the heart substance without suppuration, which, in a chronic form, leads to the changes described in the next paragraph. It is uncertain whether it is ever strictly acute, but when recent, produces the following appearances. The muscular substance is soft, and mottled with yellow patches, which consist not of inflammatory products, but of muscular tissue in a state of colloid or vitrous degeneration, the striation being indistinct, and the fibres atrophied. Around and among the wasted muscular bundles is much vascular nucloated tissue. This process is anatomically comparable to cirrhosis of the liver, and * “Trans. Path. Soo.,” vol. xxi. p. 94. t For other cases of inflammation or abscess of the heart, see Murchisoi tkm'.SSS'*’ 1Sj8> vo1- X1X- p- 193 > Moxon: Ibid. 1869, vol. xx. p. 113 aom. i(j68> vol. p |24 “ Trans. Holmes: