345 ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS. The new growths met with in the heart substance are fibrous or connective tissue masses, tubercle, cancer, and syphilitic growths. Cystic parasites also occur. New growths of connective tissue sometimes occur in a discrete form as well as in the form of general induration already described. : Several such cases are recorded. In one of which an account is given in the Transactions of the Pathological Society, sudden death i occurred in a man supposed to be perfectly healthy, and the heart ' was found to contain numerous masses of fibrous tissue replacing 1 the muscular tissue.* In this,, as in other cases,! it has been ■ suggested that such growths are syjihilitic; but positive evidence 1 has always been wanting. Undoubted syphilitic growths have l been observed, they may exceed a hazel nut in size, and in a case i recorded by Oppolzer, appeared to cause rupture of the heart. They may also, as already stated, lead to suppuration. Tubercle is very rarely observed in the heart; when it occurs it i is usually associated with tubercle of the pericardium, in cases of . general tuberculosis. Cancerous growths are not common ; the best account of them is ■ to be found in a paper by Dr. Peacock,! in which he has analyzed : forty-five recorded cases of the disease. As the older accounts are defective in point of histology,, it is probable that many of these would not now he described as cancer. Only two of these ■ were cases of primary cancer of the heart without jiarticipation of any other organ. In five more the disease appeared to occupy other organs simultaneously, while in eight it spread to the heart 1 from adjacent parts, such as the mediastinal glands. This form of . growth is less uncommon than the former; it often comes under ■ the anatomical description of sarcoma rather than cancer. In about half the cases the disease was secondary to cancerous growth elsewhere. The growth assumed the form of “cancerous infiltra- tion ” in a few instances, but in the majority there were distinct tumours. The seat of diseaso was generally'the right auricle and ventricle, either alone or in conjunction with the left auricle and ventricle. The form of cancer is described as being encephaloid in about half the cases; scirrhus and melanosis occurred in a few, while in others the species of cancer is not distinguished. Ossific deposits are recorded, but they seem invariably to proceed ' from the endocardium ; and we shall return to the subject in con- nection with the diseases of this membrane. Both Corvisart and Hope give cases of portions of the heart being converted into car- tdage ; but there is little doubt that if these cases had been sub- * Dr. Whipham : “Trans. Path. Soc,” 1870, vol. xxi p 115 + “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1888, vol. xix. p. 108, plate iv . Ha's 4 6 anil « i "Trans. Path. Soc,” 1885, vol. xvi. p 99. ’ P ’ 6’ IUia 6‘ V.