22 VARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. dition, characterized as we have seen by an excess in the quantity of red globules, and evidencing a tendency to congestion and haemorrhage, is considered by Andral as generally associated with a deficient proportion of fibrine. He found in a strong, athletic man, who had symptoms of cerebral congestion, as low a figure of fibrine as 1 '6, and remarks that the minimum quantity occurred in those cases in which the symptoms of congestion were most intense. In a female, who had been struck down senseless by an attack of apoplexy, the first bleeding showed the small proportion of 1'9 of fibrine, the globules being at 175’5. After three days, when consciousness had begun to return, she was bled again ; and now the fibrine amounted to 3'5, while the globules had diminished Quality of Fibrine.—Alterations in the quality of the fibrine manifest themselves very clearly in the varying size and firmness of the coagulum, which forms in blood drawn from a vein, as well as in the peculiarities of structure which microscopic examination reveals. We will consider the general and the textural differ- ences separately. To estimate aright the condition of the coagu- lum of the blood a full stream should be allowed to flow from a sufficient orifice into a deep vessel, which should be afterwards covered over, and should have been previously warmed. If drawn in a small, trickling stream, and received into a cold, shallow vessel, or if subsequently agitated, the coagulation is disturbed, and takes place either too rapidly, or forms, in the case of being agitated, irregular shreds. The coagulum, when formed, may be very large and farm, so as to offer considerable resistance when an attempt is made to divide it. This implies a fair proportion, or, perhaps, rather increa&ed, of healthy fibrine, with a considerable amount of red corpuscles. I have been informed of the case of a plethoric female whom it was necessary to bleed frequently during her pregnancy. The coagulum was described to me as so firm “ that it might have been kicked from one end of a room to the other.” On the other hand, the coagulum may he large, but so lax as to be very easily divided, and, if handled, readily breaking up. This implies either a deficient quantity of fibrine, or a defective contractile quality, or rnost commonly both. It may generally be taken as a positive sign tha i bleeding is not necessary, and that it will not be borne well, lhe coagulum, again, may be very firm, but considerably shiunken and contracted, manifesting this not only by its recession from the sides of the vessel, but by the concavity of its upper surface, which at the same time is covered with a layer, more or less thick, of a light-yellow colour. This layer is fibrine separated from the red corpuscles, and is commonly termed the “buffy coat. In this case the quantity of fibrine is much increased, and probably also its contractile quality, which occasions the reduced size of the clot, and the drawing in of the surface, or, as it Ts called, “ the cup- pin0’.” A buffy coat sometimes forms on the surface ot clots winch