1 io ORCHITIS. tendency to chronic inflammatory affections which characterizes that constitutional state which is commonly styled the “ scrofu- lous or strumous diathesis.” The nature of these varieties, as well in their anatomical changes as in the different treatment required for their relief, render it necessary to discuss them singly. It requires some care to distinguish simple chronic inflammation, or syphilitic disease, from scrofulous, or so-called tubercular testis. Hence the name which any particular specimen receives is very often dependent merely upon history or accompanying morbid changes in other organs. The form of disease which we shall describe as “scrofulous orchitis” is by some authors regarded as the type of chronic inflammation, by others as really tubercular. But from the former it is sufficiently distinguished by its essentially degenerative or destructive character ; and, as to the latter point, tubercles need not be present at all, unless we take this word in a very wide sense; while the disease in which tubercles are present from the first shows very different features. The scrofulous form might very well be called “ phthisis of the testicle ” ; and in regard to the question of aetiology, it is important to remember that this is one of the Conditions which may be the antecedent of general miliary tuberculosis—a fact which we have observed in more than one well-marked instance. . Syphilitic orchitis, or syphilitic sarcocele, is the chronic inflamma- tion of the testicle met with in the later stages of constitutional syphilis. It consists mainly of a smooth, scarcely tender, general enlargement of the body of the testicle. Very generally both testes are affected, one following soon after the other. There is seldom any pain, save some aching in the loin, caused by the dragging of the heavj organ, nor is there much tenderness. In the earliest stage of the disease a distinct nodulation of the surface may be made out, but as the disease progresses the nodules become fused together in a general smooth indurated enlargement of the organ. The skin is implicated only in exceptional cases, and the epididymis is as rarely involved in the disease—points of considerable diagnostic importance, in the absence of other symptoms of constitutional --cinef, as scaly eruptions, nodes, or affections of the throat. I he exciting cause of the enlargement is obscure; in certain cases it seems due to excessive sexual excitement, but it is hardly ever met with in connection with urethritis. The anatomical changes present are of two kinds, either a diffuse form of cell proliferation in the intertubular connective tissue commencing at the surface and dipping in towards the centre of the organ, or the formation in the body of the testis of gummy nodules, which subsequently become fused together. In the earlv stages one sees the delicate connective tissue to be crowded with spherical corpuscles, resembling leucocvtes, separated by a scanty amount of homogeneous material; but as the disease progresses the corpuscles fattily degenerate, whilst the intervening substance increases m density, and presents the appearance of a tough