TUBERCLE OF THE BRAIN. 277 fact is remarkable, as showing that pure tubercular growth may, in the brain, attain a size far exceeding that of tubercles in anv other organ. The minute structure of the more recent portions of cerebral tubercle resembles that of recent tubercle in general. They are composed of nuclei, small cells, and occasional larger many-nucleated cells. In the more central portions are seen these elements in a state of atrophy or decay (tubercle corpuscles), and the more homogeneous amorphous granular mass called caseous tubercle. These gradations of structure will distinguish tubercle from all other new growths, except the syphilitic, which it extremely resembles, and the history and concomitant morbid appearances will sometimes be the only criteria for drawing a distinction between them. If, as occasionally happens, the tubercular matter proceeds to the stage of softening, the superficial observer may mistake the morbid appearances for those of a simple abscess of the brain. Cerebral tubercle is far more common in children than in adults. Out of 472 tubercular children (putting together the cases of Barthez and Eilliet, and of Dr. Hillrer), eighty-seven had tubercle in the brain. Physicians who have had the most extensive experi- ence in these matters agree as to the rarity of its occurrence in the adult; thus Cruveilhier never met with a single case, and Lugol, in the large hospital of St. Louis, has only seen eight instances, in none of which any symptoms of the disease were manifested during life. Iu 117 cases of adults dying of tubercle reported by Louis, it occurred only once. It is a singular fact, which we gather from the statistics of MM. Killiet and Barthez, that sex appears to exert a marked influence upon the occurrence of cerebral tubercle; in each variety, the males are considerably more liable to the affection than females; of forty-four cases, we find twenty-nine occurring in boys, and fifteen in girls. The fact is confirmed by the statistics of our own medical writers: an analysis of fifteen cases reported by Dr. Abercrombie and others, establishes a similar proportion; ten of these cases were males, and five females. It is however, right to state tha.t Dr. Hennis Green’s * statistics contradict this fact; his observations were made at the same hospital as those of MM. Killiet and Barthez, and of the thirty cases which he has collected fourteen occurred in boys and sixteen in gii-ls. Out of twelve cases described by Dr. Ilillier, nine were in boys and three in girls. . The deposit of tubercular matter sometimes occurs in patches of UTegular shape and size, on the surface of the brain, beneath the pia mater,t but commonly, as we have already seen, it forms nodules within the cerebral tissue. It is often met with both in cerebrum and corebellum at the same time; the number of cases * “ Medico-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxv. p. 192. 1 See Mr. Dunn’s case, Ibid. p. 209.