468 PULMONARY CONGESTION. attributed to the extinction of the nervous power of the vagi, in consequence of the experiments of Muller, which have shown that the fatal effect of dividing these nerves in the neck is mainly due to the infiltration of the lungs and air-passages with serum. Both lungs are generally affected to the same extent, nor is the oedema necessarily confined to the posterior portions, even where it is only partial. The most rapid and serious form of oedema is that which accompanies general dropsy, especially that caused by disease of the kidneys. A peculiar fact remarked by Hasse is, that where, in general dropsy which proves fatal, the one lung is found univer- sally adherent to the pleura, and the other not, the former is oadematous, and the latter compressed by hydrothorax. Laennec states that pneumonia induces a great proclivity to the production of pulmonary cedema during the period of convalescence ; this may have been partly due to the excessive depletion formerly in vogue, for pulmonary oedema appears to occur- so frequently, and so much in the ratio of the general amentia of the individual, that we see no reason for assuming a special tendency in one disease to produce it. The lax texture of the lungs, like that of the superficial cellular tissue, necessarily favours a serous effusion under such circum- stances. A collateral oedema of the unconsolidated lung often accompanies unilateral pneumonia. PULMONARY CONGESTION. The spongy texture of the lungs, coupled with the fact that these organs contain a larger quantity of blood, in proportion to their size, than any other organ of the body, renders them peculiarly liable to the various forms of congestion—a tendency which is en- hanced by the relation existing between the pulmonary and sys- temic circulation. There are doubtless very intense and possibly fatal forms of congestion which are not recognizable after death. It is within our experience, verified by post-mortem examination, that death may occur with extreme rapidity from congestion alone. Sudden and intense hypersemia was formerly called vascular pul- monary apoplexy, a term now applied to haemorrhagic infarc-tus. Most of the various causes of death, while inducing an arrest of the circulation, give rise to an accumulation of blood in the organs of respiration. Nysten’s experiments have shown that the contractile power of the right side of the heart continues long after the irrita- bility of the left side is extinguished; and the effect of maintaining artificial respiration in cases in which death from a lesion of the nervous powers is to be apprehended, further demonstrates the great share taken by the lungs in the production of death. The elasticity of the arteries also exercises some influence in pro- ducing an engorgement of the lungs, at the moment of, and imme- diately after, death, by propelling their contents into the venous system, and thus overcharging the right side of the heart. Nor