ACTIVE HYPERiEMIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. 57 in the open air, which is brought into the atmosphere of a hot- house, will vegetate during the winter, and draw up sap through the stems and roots, while the other branches remain in their ordinary state. (5). In many of the lower invertebrata, the move- ment of the nutrient fluid seems to be evidently independent of the action of a heart on the vessels. (6). Dr. Houston’s case of an acardiac foetus has proved, in the judgment of those most com- petent to decide,* “ that a foetus may grow to a considerable size, and have its various tissues well developed, without any connection with the twin fcetus, by means exclusively of a circulation of its own, of which a heart forms no portion, or upon which it can exercise but a very remote influence.” (7). Though the phenomenon of blushing, and some other local determinations of blood, may be accounted for by an alteration taking place in the calibre of the blood-vessels, their channels being widened, and more blood ad- mitted, yet that of hypersemia, excited by a local stimulus, appears to us quite impossible to explain in such a way. We would refer more particularly to the interesting experiment, recorded by Mr. Simon (p. 93 of his “ Lectures on Pathology ”), in which hypersemia was induced by the local application of a stimulus to a part which had lost all trace of sensibility. This appears to us to afford con- clusive proof, that neither the action of the heart, nor that of the blood-vessels, but only the nutritive force, heightened by the action of the stimulus, could have produced the local erythema. This justly eminent authority adds, “Altogether we may, I think, take it as an established certainty, that the first change which occurs in an inflamed or overgrowing part, and which leads to its becoming loaded with blood, is not a reflex change operated through the nerves, but is a direct change, operated by the living molecular structure of the part on the blood which traverses it, or on the vessels which convey that blood.” He compares it to “ a vortex, established in the place of the irritant, causing all the adjoining streamlets of blood to converge in swifter channels towards it.” Professor Paget says, “ I think I can be quite sure that the velocity of the stream, in any vessel of an inflamed part, is not determined by the diminution or enlargement of the channel. Without change of size, the stream may be seen decreasing from extreme velocity to complete stagnation. On what the alteration of movement of the blood in such a case depends, I cannot tell; but we have facts enough to justify such an hypothesis as that there may be some mutual relation between the blood and its vessels, on the parts around them, which,_ being natural, permits the most easy transit of the blood, but, being disturbed, increases the hindrances to its passage.” Other forms of Active Eypercemia.—The foregoing remarks apply chiefly to active hypermmia resulting from the application of a local stimulus. There are, however, other forms in which the Todd and Bowman, Phys. Anat. vol. ii. p. 372,