41 HYPEE.EMIA. press upon and obstruct the main artery supplying the part ; j (2) disease, often atheromatous, of the coats of the vessel itself, ; leading to deposition of fibrinous eoagula, and consequent obstruc- :tion of the channel; (3) spontaneous coagulation of the blood in an artery; (4) blocking up of a vessel by fibrinous flakes transported •from a distance, perhaps from the valves of the heart; (5) there is i no doubt that during life ancemia of a part may be produced by • spasm of the muscular walls of the small arteries supplying it, e either dependent on nervous action or possibly spontaneous. Such . a condition will not be recognisable after death. It may be observed that it is difficult in many cases to say ; positively whether ansemia of an internal organ exists; we can- inot observe during healthy life what amount of blood, as indicated 1 by its colour, it contains, and the changes in the distribution of blond which may ensue during the last hours of life, and after i death, will greatly alter the natural appearance. HYPEREMIA. Hypersemia, the opposite condition to ancemia, implies, of course, i an excessive quantity of blood. The term is commonly applied to : accumulation of blood in a part, i.e., to local or partial excess ; •while plethora (n-X^dos, a multitude) is that which is used to ■ signify increase of the general mass. We will first consider [plethora, or general hypersemia, and afterwards partial. Plethora.—The characters of marked plethora are strongly ' expressed, and easily discernible. The face is rather full and tur- : gid, and presents a diffused redness, often of a slightly purplish ‘tint; this is especially observable in the lips. The conjunctivse are redder than natural, the expression of the eye sharp and ! ferrety. The pulse is full, and more or less strong. The tem- perature of the skin is inclined to be hot, and even in the most : remote parts it is fully maintained. There is a tendency to head- ache, and not unfrequently there is some degree of drowsiness and disinclination to exertion. Persons in this state have good appe- tites, and digest their food well, the secretions all seem to go on naturally, and organic or vegetative life is in full vigour. On account of the increase in the quantity of blood, it is manifest that complete oxygenation of it must be more difficult; hence, on any exertion the breath is apt to be short, and the action of the heart labouring; hence, also, as Eokitansky observes, the blood always presents a certain degree of venosity, as if never thoroughly arterialized. A distinction has been drawn between Two principal varieties of plethora, the sthenic and the asthe- nic. Generally, it may be said, that in the one the organic .life and tone of all parts are exalted, in the other proportionately depressed, while in both the mass of blood is in excess. Heat cof skin, frequency (not, however, great) of pulse, with fulness