CYANOSIS. 369 tli3 circulation; and on the other hand, that various other irre- gularities in the heart, such as those before referred to, may rgive rise to cyanosis. Bizot found the foramen ovale more or [ess open in forty-four out of one hundred and fifty-five sub- jects, in none of whom was there a trace of the morbus cceru- e.eus. Two openings have been found in the ventricular septum, uul no cyanosis resulted; a marked instance of this kind in an individual who attained the a.ge of eight years, was brought 'oefore the Pathological Society, by Dr. Quain, in 1847. In such a .;ase we are justified in assuming that the forces of the two sides of -he heart are so exactly balanced as not to disturb the circulation; and the orifice of the pulmonary and systemic arteries being patent, -he contents of each side pass into their proper channel. That this ■ s a prevailing law for many cases of cyanosis, is shown by the iact, that it frequently does not manifest itself unless there is some urther cause for derangement of the circulation, such as bronchitic iffeetions, to which, it may be remarked, cyanotic individuals are weculiarly subject. Another lesion that appears to be often associated with cyanosis ■ 5 a contracted state of the pulmonary artery; and, as in that case aore than usual pressure will continue to be exerted upon the uramon ovale, this will necessarily remain patulous, and allow a passage of blood from the right to the left auricle ; in such a case ; may be almost looked upon as a safety valve. Gintrac* has amalyzed fifty cases of-cyanosis, and among them found obstruction t the pulmonic orifice in twenty-six; the proportion is stated to e still greater by other authors. But the blue disease is not neces- the result of an admixture of the contents of the two sides of 1 ie heart; anything causing an arrest in the return of the venous Wood to the heart is sufficient to give rise to it. In a case of larked cyanosis, recorded by Mr. Ebenezer Pye Smith, already referred f°> in which the foramen ovale was perfectly closed, and had vidently been so for some time before birth, there was no inter- JMlijncular comTnl}I1icaiion> the left ventricle was almost oblite- 'ited, and the aortic opening was also very small, being about two i nos Wide. Here, then, there was an evident arrest at the aortic Hnnci, which reacted upon the pulmonary circulation, and through iat upon the systemic capillaries. The lungs were too much larged with blood to perform the duty of aeration effectually, and congested or cyanotic condition of the surface resulted. Other ptmlar instances of the cyanosis being due to contraction at the irtic orifices are on record. f One of the most palpable instances that has occurred to us . "oving how little we are able to account for cyanosis theoretically’ as that of a child that lived to the ago of nino weeks, and whose -art, after death, was found to present no auriculo-ventricular nening, on the right side, while there was scarcely any inter- * “ Sur la Cyanose,” Paris, 1821.