412 t “ Medical Reports,” yol. ii. p. 66S. AIR IN THE VEINS. surgeon lias to deal with. Death ensues rapidly, and atmospheric air is found in the right side of the heart. Air has been traced in some of these cases in the aorta, the crural arteries, the arteries of the brain, the inferior cava, the iliac veins, and the coronary veins of the heart. * It has been suggested that, in some cases of sudden death after delivery, the cause might be found in an introduction of air into the circulation by the open mouths of the veins, when the uterus contracted imperfectly. Simpson did in fact find air in such a case, in the uterine veins, the internal iliac, and the vena cava. Another question is the possibility of the spontaneous evolution of gas within the veins during life. Many of the cases on record are undoubtedly mere instances of rapid putrefaction; but we are justified, both by the constitution of healthy blood, and by post-mortem observation, in admitting the possibility of such a change before death. Numerous authors, among whom we would mention Dr. Baillie,f have met with air in the veins of the pia mater in cases of apoplexy, before any traces of decomposition were to be perceived. Dr. Bright % attributes the presence of air in these cases exclusively to accidental injury of the veins, or to incipient putrefaction. The evolution of gas during life, though difficult of absolute proof, is entirely within the range of pro- bability, when we consider that venous blood contains an excess of carbonic acid gas, which is discharged on reducing the atmospheric pressure, as demonstrated by Magnus. “Perhaps,” as Professor Puchelt remarks, “ it happens more frequently than we are aware, that a bubble of air forms in the venous blood, and again disap- pears. I am acquainted with at least one variety of palpitation, which produces the sensation, and, I am almost inclined to assert, the noise, as if a bubble passed through a fluid. It occurs gene- rally with but one beat of the heart, and I have met with it in venous subjects with an hsemorrhoidal tendency, and a liability to flatulency.” * See “ Puchelt, das Venensystem," vol. iii. p. 32S. Liefing, 1S43. + “ Morbid Anatomy,” p. 430.