CHAPTER IV. TEXTURAL CHANGES. We new come to consider certain changes, to which most of the various organs of the body are liable, in a general way. These changes are essentially textural, and result from various dis- turbances of the normal degree and kind of nutrition. They are also for the most part slow and gradual in their course, and are thus termed chronic. Hypertrophy, as its etymology signifies, conveys the idea of increased nutrition and growth in the part affected. The term, however, is sometimes applied to parts which are simply enlarged, and it is essential to observe that this enlargement by no means necessarily constitutes hypertrophy, but may, instead, be attended with the opposite condition. Tins makes it necessary to distinguish real from apparent hypertrophy. In the former the characteristic tissue of the part is enlarged, and more developed: if it be a muscle, the muscular fibres grow larger, and attain to greater energy of contraction; if it be a kidney, more renal tubes are formed with corresponding blood-vessels. The size of the organ is not only increased, but its working power too, the muscle can raise a greater weight, and the kidney can produce more secretion. But if a liver or spleen he enlarged by ever so great a quantity of the peculiar matter termed ‘‘waxy,” which is deposited interstitially between the elements of the tissue, their functional power is only thereby lessened and deteriorated, for the simple reason that the new sub- stance has pressed upon and caused wasting of the natural structure. It is therefore necessary in every case to ascertain what is the nature of the enlargement of a part before we pronounce it to be truly hypertrophied. Mere distension of a hollow organ, of course, is not hypertrophy ; a huge emphysematous lung, or hydrocephalic brain are not really enlarged, but rather diminished in actual capacity. Great congestion of a part with blood may give it the appearance of being hypertrophied, but this again is onlj anot er kind of distension. Real hypertrophy requires a free supply of healthy blood, and is commonly attended with enlargement of tne vossels of the part; this is not the case in apparent. The cause o