857 VASCULAR TUMOURS. the bone. All authors are agreed that external cephalhematoma occurs most frequently on the right side. Bednar (quoted by 1 r. Willshire) found, that of seventy-four examples, forty were on the right, twentv-two on the left, six over each parietal bone, four on the occipital', one over both parietals and the occipital, and one over the frontal bone, the latter being the smallest. Older writers have regarded it as depending upon an essential disease of the bone, owing to the hard ring bounding the tumour, inducin,‘>' the impression that the bone has been excavated. This appears, however, to be strictly a secondary production, the result of an ossifying process on the surface of the bone, and on the surface of the detached periosteum. A further growth according to Bokitansky, commences at the margin of the denuded part, and produces the deposit of bony matter in the form of a velvety or finely filamentous osteophyte. it The clot passes through the process of softening and absorption common in thrombi. In unhealthy cases, suppuration or puriform softening takes place, which may give rise to extensive suppura- tion and necrosis of the bone. VASCULAR TUMOURS. Tumours of a vascular character are occasionally met with in bone, resembling those composed of erectile tissue, or rather of a congeries of blood-vessels, in soft parts. Mb. Stanley describes a tumour of this kind that fell under his observation, as bearing a close resemblance to certain nsevi consisting of dilated blood- vessels, with a fibrous tissue occupying their interstices; hence in a section the tumour presented a cribriform appearance, the orifices being apparently those of divided blood-vessels. This tumour must not be confounded with those enlargements of the bone which are produced by an accumulation of blood, owing to rupture of the blood-vessels, and consequent haemorrhage into the cancelli, or between the periosteum and the bone. Cruveilhier gives delineations * of a remarkable case, in which a lady, aged thirty-eight, of a good constitution, and without hereditary taint, the mother of eight children, presented a dozen tumours of the size of a walnut, situated on the head. They were soft, and pulsated ; the beats were isochronous with that of the pulse, and were accompanied with a blowing noise, similar to one heard at the aorta. There were several similar tumours in other parts of the body, but those of the head only proved after death to belong to the bones. They exhibited on section a filamentous areolar structure tilled with blood ; the destruction of the bone penetrated to the dura mater; the absorption of the osseous tissue resembled that produced by aneurism; on the external surface there was • “ Anatomie Patholog-ique,” tom. ii. line xxxiii. pi. iv.