269 ABSCESS OP THE BRAIST. The cysts themselves have a laminated fibrous structure, and they are lined with a layer of the pyogenic membrane. True suppuration of the brain, not arising from injury or diseases of the skull, is mostly of pytemic origin; the cases in. which neither of these modes of origin can be assigned being very few. There are, however, cases on record in which no other evi- dence of pyaemia has been noticed. Next to direct injury, perhaps, caries of the bones of the skull is the most frequent cause of sup- puration in the brain, which may occur with or without meningitis or purulent thrombosis of the cerebral sinuses. Thus it has been observed as a consequence of disease of the internal ear. * Dr. Gull some years ago examined this subject very carefully, and came to the conclusion that all cases not dependent on injury 01 disease of the cranial bones, were ot pyaemic origin ; considering the unexplained case3 to be quite exceptional, or due to imperfect • observation. In a more recent article in Reynolds’s “ System of : Medicine,” an analysis of seventy-six cases is given by himself and Dr. Sutton. Out of this number we find that' 40 per cent. ‘ depended upon disease of the cranial bones or of the internal ear; 1 m 23 Per cent, there was either obvious injury to the skull, or else : some history ot violence; 13 per cent, were evidently, from the . occurrence of suppuration in several parts, cases of pysemia; in another 13 per cent, there were other diseases, sometimes accom- j panied by suppuration and softening; while in only 10 per cent. 1 was the origin of suppuration quite unexplained, t Pycemic or Metastatic Abscess of the Brain.-—Suppuration may ( occur m the brain, as in other parts, in cases of purulent infection ' or pj temia arising from whatever causes. Such abscesses are not, ‘ however, very common. They resemble pyaemic abscesses of other P®rts m tpe extreme rapidity with which suppuration takes place; MPact which when established by clinical observation, may be an important aid m diagnosis. It is probable that some cases of what appears to be idiopathic abscess of the brain may be due to this cause. For instance, in a case described by Dr. Cholmeley • t although no other evidence of pyaemia was established at'the autopsy, the patient is said to have suffered from inflammation of thei knee-joints, accompanied by swelling and redness, which raises a strong presumption of the existence of pyiemia. Bat the number r»t cases m which there has been unquestionable evidence of the existence of pyaemia is not large. Pysemic abscesses are said to begin with the formation of a hard solid red infarctus, which begins to break down in the centre and thus toms a focus of suppuration surrounded by highly vascular 1 s,'e ca*es in “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1807, xviii. 7, hv Murchison nnO numerousesses referred to by Gull and Sutton in Reynolds’s “System of Mo^rine"”’ i r- J?p- 646 and Tu l- See alsl> Toynbee: “ Diseases of the Ear ” Medicine, « T., "u : “ tiny s Hospital Report-,” vol. viii. 3rd series. Gull and Knltm, • t,.*; t of the Brain,’ in Reynolds’s •«System of Medicine? voi d p ' Art,clc* ♦ HanH. Path. Soc., ’ vol xix. 22. 1