299 THE SPINAL COED. Fig. 72. oular tracts, that is of the portion of either the anterior or posterior columns connecting the brain with particular nerves, is seen as a secondary affection resulting from the functional inactivity of the nerves, or affection of that part of the brain with which they are connected; and sometimes special tracts become atrophied without any previous central or peripheral affection; hut these changes will he considered under the head of degenerations. Hypertrophy of the cord is said by Roki- : tansky to accompany hypertrophy of the brain in children, and to be characterized by ' swelling with aneemia, a rounded uniform : shape, and a tough consistence. It is how- ■ ever, as compared with the cerebral affection, ’ very rare. Local enlargement of the cord is also ob- : served above the seat of atrophy arising from ] pressure ; but this enlargement appears, ac- 1 cording to Forster, to depend upon inflam- ! mation. Ilyperoimia, or congestion of the cord, is described as an independent affection by : medical writers, but it can scarcely be said ’to be a condition recognizable by morbid anatomy; the post-mortem appearances 'being, in Dr. Radcliffe’s words, “ very vague iand unsatisfactory.” The condition of the cord met with in tetanus perhaps most nearly approaches, in its naked eye charac- t iers, to what is meant by congestion, but it cannot, in reality, be simply thus defined. Condition of the Cord in Tetanus.— The first ■observations on this subject are those of Roki- •itansky, published in 1857. His first case nut dated 1850. In this the cord was found ppale, infiltrated with a greyish viscid fluid, £and so far softened as to swell out in an unusual degree beyond the membranes when cut. In the viscid fluid which thus exuded were found detritus of nerve structures and irregularly swollen nerve fibres. The alteration was uniform W whole of the cord, and showed no obvious starting pomt. I ho same appearances presented themselves in numerous - MuUr c..e, both tr.um.tio and idiopathic; ,„d arc f} ky “ ““ »r hypertrophy of the normal ■neuroglia, or connective-tissue matrix.* Those researches ■necessarily conducted on the fresh specimen, without tho help of aaaar—“ - -u -isastsaj'; Part of a spinal corrl from a case of paraplegia, with angular curvature of the spine, in a lad aged eighteen. Opposite the contrac- ted part of the cord, a short process of bone projected from the angle of the curvature into the spinal canal. (From St. Bartholo- mew’s Museum, Series vii. No. 7.)