MORBUS BRIGimi. 680 exceedingly insidious disease, often not discovered till shortly before and sometimes not till after death ; generally, therefore, without having given rise to the symptoms of the more acute disease, and sometimes quite unaccompanied by dropsy. The kidneys, in cases of the former disease, are usually found enlarged, especially the cortex, pale, smooth, without any abnormal adhesion of the capsule; it has hence been called the large, smooth kidney. In the second form of disease, the kidney is usually found small, wasted, especi- ally in its cortical portion, the surface rough, granular, the cap- sule adherent; this has hence been called the contracting granular kidney. Passing from the naked-eye appearance to the minute anatomy, we find that in the majority of cases the large smooth kidney shows changes in the tubes and their epithelium, partly hyper- plastic and partly degenerative (i.e., fatty), without any alteration of the interstitial stroma, and has hence been called tubular nephritis or fatty degeneration. In most cases, also, the small granular kidney presents, with a variable amount of morbid change in the tubes (sometimes hardly any that is well marked), alterations in the interstitial stroma and in the arteries of an hypertrophic kind. It has hence been called interstitial nephritis or cirrhosis of the kidney. In this summary we leave out of account two forms of kidney disease, which have been separately treated, but which were probably included by Bright under the above two heads, viz., the lardaceous degeneration, formerly unavoidably confounded with the other large, pale, smooth kidneys, and the form of kidney disease dependent upon cardiac obstruction, which constitutes one form of contracted granular kidney. Besides these, there _ are, however, certain important exceptions, which must be mentioned. In the first place, some examples of “large smooth kidney” show, on microscopical examination, not so much changes in the tubes as pronounced interstitial growth, or the alteration regarded as characteristic of the second form. These cases may, perhaps, be compared to those of large, smooth cirrhosis of the liver formerly described. In the second place, some small kidneys with granular surface show simple wasting, without interstitial growth, and may be regarded perhaps as examples of the same form of disease as usually gives rise to the large, smooth kidney, but in an advanced stage of degeneration. These two forms are, however, comparatively rare; there are also mixed or intermediate forms. Parenchymatous or Tubular Nephritis; sometimes called Fatty Degeneration.—In this form of renal disease, the kidney is consider- ably enlarged, even more, sometimes, than in acute hyperminia; both kidneys have been found weighing twenty-three or even thirty ounces ; it is generally pale, sometimes of an opaque greyish- white, with mottling spots or streaks of red; its capsule peels off readily; the surface is smooth, and tolerably uniform, or presents opaque spots, while, rarely, granulations may be just