236 PACCHIONIAN BODIES. principle of the blood in the latter instance being almost mvarmhly effused into the cavity of the arachnoid, in consequen^ofwhich the effects of the pressure act more unifoimlv of the cranium. The changes m the effused blood may howeve^ assume another form than the. one just descnbed, and it m important to he aware of the circumstance, as it may smral - hydrocephalus. Instead of the serum being absorbed, it nmy become enclosed in a false membrane, and remam as a persiste sac, exerting an amount of constant pressure upon the subjacent brain, sufficient to cause flattening of the surf^ and to as is generally the case, a considerable impairment of the mteUect. When these cysts are once formed they have a great l • - passive resistance, and rarely dimmish m size. 1 Superficial or meningeal haemorrhage occurs more rarely in t adult, except as the result of injury. . •> y, aw. Three interesting and instructive cases are ^ t crombie * and we also find a few instances recorded bj Ui Dn0M T TnThe former nothin- was found either in the brain or the other viscera to account for the effusion; in one of Rouses contained in the Medical Reports there was an hypertrophy of the heart, £ SotC the haemorrhage war due to the Jg™ of »jmM aneurism in a third no lesions were found, and m two others tne Eorrkge was attributable to a fall and the viscera do not bate lymphatic glands. granular matter, and gene- network, containing some tlh o s g^ surface. They rally occupy the vicinity of the mmUme. ^ q£ siuuses> aud often cause perforations of th membrane when the brain may thus appear to belong o . (ievcjopment, at times, s£Mss co^riartSS v. - « “Pathol, andPract. Researches,” &c., P. 212. p tt Hewett’s paper in the t Medical Reports, &c., p. 266.. See also Mr. lrtscort u “Medico-Cliir. Trans.,” vol. xxyui. ... T.0ndon. 1859. . „ } “ lectures on Pathologioal Anatomy, p. ' c0uirlobatis Dune Meningis. § “ Ant. Pacchioni Dissert. Epistolary de Olaudulis confeiou Romeo, 1705.