ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE TESTICLE. 718 of the testis remaining in the abdomen is considered by Mr. Curling with much probability to be owing either to paralysis and detective development of the cremaster muscle, or to the contraction of adhesions between the gland and some adjacent viseus. rihe discovery of the continuation of muscular fibres from the fixed attachment of the cremaster up along the guberaaculum to the testis in its primitive situation by the side of the vertebral column inclines us strongly to believe that these fibres must be the agents in causing the descent of the gland into its appointed place. Con- traction of the external abdominal ring is also mentioned as one of the causes impeding the descent of the testis. In rare instants the testis wanders into other situations—one has been found in the perineeum, the other being normally placed; and in a few instances a testicle has preferred to make its exit by the crural instead of the inguinal canal. Sometimes it happens that the gland is turned round in the scrotum, so that its anterior face becomes posterior. What is the condition of the gland in these cases of imperfect descent ? This must always be a matter of much anxiety to the subject of the phenomenon, and it is not easy to answer the ques- tion with certainty. Mr. Curling, indeed, affirms, as the result of long-continued and most careful investigations into the subject, that 1 ‘ spermatozoa have not been discovered after death in the spermatic ways of a detained testicle in any one instance that he knows of.” * ' Of course, where only one testis is so situated it is of little consequence, the remaining healthy organ preventing its owner from being sterile, but where both are undescended, the many cases in which these testes have been found atrophied or completely undeveloped, render it impossible to speak with cer- tainty of their condition, although instances are not wanting of the subjects of this deficiency becoming fathers of healtny children, f . It is probable that an imperfectly descended testicle is more prone to certain diseases than is the healthy gland. There are on record not a few cases of malignant disease affecting a retained testis—a condition attributed by Virchow partly to the increased liability to injury in this position, and partly to the predisposing developmental imperfection. , There is no such condition known as true hypertrophy ot the testes, although the size and weight ot healthy testes vaiy con- siderably in different individuals. . Atrophy of the testis, either congenital from defective develop- ment or acquired, is not unfrequent. Several instances are men- tioned by Mr. Curling, in which the penis and testicles of persons arrived at the age of puberty, or of adults, did not exceed the size * “ A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis, &c.*’ by T. B. Curling. F.i,.s., third edit'o^W66, ^30.s goo „ Tol xix p ogg, in which a sixty having two te-tioles no larger than Alberts, but otherwise health} -looking. S children No spermatozoa were found, hut the testes d!d not seem atroplned, only undeveloped.