MOLLITIES OSSIUM. 842 with, a multitude of longitudinal fibres, resembling those of a fcetal skull. He attributes them to the development and the action of the periosteal vessels, which hollow out for themselves channels in the osseous substance. When this variety of cortical rarefaction is raised above the surrounding tissue, it resembles one form of osteophyte, and many of the preparations of caries preserved in museums are referable to the same head. The rarefaction of the osseous tissue, which constitutes osteoporosis, though often inducing a considerable increase of bulk, is essentially distinct from the process giving rise to the formation of exostosis, in which the generation of new osseous matter is the characteristic feature; the former being essentially an atrophic, the latter an hypertrophic condition. The term spina ventosa, though one which has nothing but the prestige of antiquity to recommend it, is applied, among others, to affections belonging to the class just considered. We will not seek to perpetuate it by defining its characters, as it is an arbitrary designation, without any acknowledged and established meaning. There appear to be two chief forms of this disease, (a) That in which the distinction of medullary cavity and compact substance is lost, all being converted into a spongy or cancellated structure. This may affect part or whole of the bone. (6) In another form the medullary cavity remains, but the shell is con- verted into a thick mass of spongy substance. Enormous spongy expansion of particular parts is sometimes produced by cancers or other tumours, which will be spoken of again. MOLLITIES OSSIUM. Mollifies ossium, osteomalacia, or malacosteon, is a disease regarding which the views of authors differ ; though it is no doubt essentially distinct from other known osseous maladies. It is a very rare complaint. The disease consists, as the term indicates, essentially in a soften- ing of the bones, brought about by an absorption of the earthy matter, and the substitution of a large quantity of fat or gelatinous material. It is an entire perversion of the process of nutrition, in as far as regards the skeleton, the earthy phosphates being elimi- nated from the system by the kidneys, and necessarily induces great pliability and fragility of the bones. Lactic acid has recently been detected both in the bones themselves, and in the urine of persons affected with this disease. The bones are so much weakened that so-called spontaneous fractures often occur. Kilian * treats of mollifies ossium as presenting two varieties— the waxy (cerea), and the fragile (fractuinsa). In the former, the bones generally, but especially those of the pelvis, present a dirty dark-yellow colour. They lose their transparency in the middle, * “ Beitrag zu einer genaueren Kenntnissder allgcmeitienTvnochenerweichungv &c., Bonn, 182!); and “ Die Geburtslehre.” &c., vol. ii. p. 867, 1810.