ABNOHMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 31 place, the blood continually arrives and stagnates in the pulmonary capillaries. We have dwelt the longer on this subject, because it appears to us of so much importance to recognize the principle that the nutrition of' a part influences so materially the circulation of blood through it, and because we may often have occasion to refer to the view here enunciated. The poisonous influence of carbonic acid is well shown by the following comparative experi- ment of Bolando. He tied one of the bronchi in a tortoise, and found that the animal was not materially injured thereby, but when, instead of merely cutting off the access of air, he furnished a supply of carbonic acid to that lung, the other still receiving air, the animal died in a few hours. Urcemic Poisoning.—When the action of the kidneys is arrested, or seriously interfered with in any way, their secretion products are no longer carried out of the system, but remain in and contaminate the blood. The effects produced by the blood thus poisoned are some- what different, according as the secretion is more or less suddenly and completely suppressed. When the suppression occurs sud- denly the acute form of urcemia, as it is called, manifests itself. Frerichs describes three varieties of this. In the first, after some pain of the head, giddiness, or vomiting, the patient soon sinks into deep stupor, from which in no long while he cannot be aroused. In the second epileptic convulsions suddenly appear, affecting the whole muscular system, and returning after occasional intermissions. The consciousness may remain unaffected. In the third form both convulsions and coma occur. Such cases constitute the disease which received a separate name, as ischuria renahs, but they probably belong to the same class as the acute anasarca, which occurs sometimes spontaneously, or after scarlet or typhus fever, the anatomical characteristic of which is great sanguine engorgement of the kidney. Uraemia, in its chronic form, appears at the close of Bright’s disease very frequently. Frerichs describes it as coming on gradually and unperceived, occasioning dull head- ache or confused sensation, impairing the mental and bodily faculties, and producing some, dulness and drowsiness. -*-“®se symptoms may remit if the urinary secretion increases, or they may progress, and become more intense, the drowsiness deepen- ing into stupor and coma. Vomiting is a frequent symptom, in uraemia, and sometimes amaurosis, or disturbance of the hearing is observed. Diarrhoea sometimes takes place, and seems to avert the dangerous consequences of uraemia: it was a prominent symp- tom in the animals whose kidneys were extirpated by Provost and Dumas, and in those similarly treated by Bernard and Barreswiii, in the latter it was particularly observed that large quantities of ammoniacal fluid were poured out by the mucous membrane o the stomach and intestinal canal; while these continued t ie cerebral functions were unimpaired, but as soon as they ceased the symptoms of intoxication commenced. Inflammations ot the serous membranes, especially the pleura and pericardium, are very