NEW GROWTH OF BLOOD VESSELS. 148 According to Forster, there are two methods by which new blood vessels are produced. The first method is by the elongation of vessels previously existing. The capillary loops are drawn out to eight or ten times their original length, and when parts of con- tiguous loops come into contact with one another they unite. In this way a new anastomosing network of capillaries is formed, and the actual number of vessels is very greatly increased without any independent new formation. This process is seen only in hyper- trophies of existing organs, in inflammatory growths, and in tumours. It probably corresponds to the normal method of increase of vessels in the growing organism. The second process described by Forster is the independent formation of blood vessels out of cells—that is to say, the cells of the connective tissue. These bodies sometimes proliferate, and the new elements thus Fig. 22. Formation of a new capillary vessel in the tail of the tadpole. a, A vascular loop, partially connected by a protoplasmic thread, b. The proto- plasmic thread become thicker and longer, c, The same partially hollowed out d. The same converted into a hollow tube with two nuclei. The whole process occupied twelve hours. (After Arnold, Virchow’s “ Archiv,” vol. liii.) produced arrange themselves in rows, till they at length form solid columns, or cylinders. These cylinders becoming hollowed out at the extremity by which they are in contact with previously exist- ing vessels are converted into tubes, and permit the entrance of blood In other cases a single connective-tissue corpuscle is the foundation of a new vessel. It enlarges till its prolongations become wide enough to admit blood corpuscles, and attaching itseU to a previously existing vessel, establishes a communication with it. Thus the corpuscle itself, with its prolongations, becomes a capil- lary vessel, the walls of which are nothing but the original cell wall and its prolongation. This account can only be accepted by those who reeard a connective-tissue cell as a space, ant 1 s pro longations as fine tubes or “ plasmatic canals. It is a so asser c that the connective-tissue corpuscles, with then- plasmatic channels, Joum. of Microsc. Science.” 1873, vol. sUL, N.8., p. 169). belitwes h the endogimous production of blood corpuscles within inflamed toe and cartilage cells. To the same effect, Commit and Strieker, “ Wiener Med. Jalnb., 1-. 1, p. 42s.