328 DEGENERATIONS OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE HEART. bears the same relation to chronic myocarditis that rapid cirrhosis does to chronic. It never occurs without accompanying endo- cardial (and usually) pericardial inflammation, and though doubt- less the first stage of chronic myocarditis, does not very often come under observation. CHRONIC MYOCARDITIS. A much commoner result of myocarditis than suppuration is the formation of fibroid masses. This is very common in the hearts of rheumatic subjects who have suffered from pericarditis or endo- carditis, and depends' upon the production of connective tissue, concurrently with (whether as consequence or cause) the loss of muscular substance from inflammation. It is usually partial or in separate spots or streaks, but is sometimes pretty generally diffused. The parts affected are pale, firm, glistening, and some- times of almost cartilaginous hardness. The microscope shows that they consist of dense fibrous tissue, usually with a super- abundance of nuclei, but sometimes giving evidence of degenerative changes. While this is doubtless the explanation of the fibrous patches usually met with in diseased hearts, there are moie pro- nounced now formations and more general changes of the same kind, which will be considered elsewhere. _ . Myocarditis probably never occurs without inflammation of the external or internal membrane of the heart, except as a consequence of pyaemia. Dr. Wilks attributes to incipient inflammation of the muscular substance certain cases of sudden death in rheumatism. It should be mentioned that the columnae carnete are very liable to be affected with fibroid transformation, and may become altogether converted into fibrous cords; this condition usually accompanies valvular disease. , , , . . „ , Haemorrhage into the substance of the heart is occasionally met with in small spots, in connection with pericarditis; but in cases of genuine cardiac apoplexy, as Oruyeilhier terms effusion ol bloort into the substance of the heart, which must be considered in t e same category as spontaneous rupture of the organ we almost invariably find fatty degeneration at and near the point, which has destroyed the uniform consistency of the organ. DEGENERATIONS OF THE SUBSTANCE OF TnE HEART. Under this head are included fatty degeneration, fibroid de- generation or transformation, and a much rarer condition, granular degeneration or “brown atrophy.” Waxy or amyloid degenera- tion is also met with, though very rarely. ^ b'atty degeneration is a condition ol the musculai ' „ , selves,'which can only be positively recognised by the help ol the microscope.