TUBERCLE. 197 © 0 ® Wasted cells or so-called tubercle cor- puscles. On the right are four blood globules. Origin of Caseous Material.—Scrofulous or caseous material is the result of more than one morbid process; Billroth thus summarizes the modes in which it may be produced: (1) It may Fic. 48. be the immediate product of acute cellular infiltration or acute inflammation. This is most clearly seen in rabbits and guinea-pigs, when irritation is experimentally set up under the skin by a seton; this causing not suppuration or ulceration, but the formation of a dry, yellow friable mass. It is not quite impossible (in Bill- roth’s opinion) that a similar process takes place in some scrofu- lous affections of children. (2) Most commonly some new for- lnations, consisting chiefly of cells, such as hyperplastic lymph glands, tissue infiltrated by chronic inflammation, the central parts of a miliary tubercle or of a tumour, such as cancer or sarcoma, &c., undergo a caseous metamorphosis, that is to say, the vessels become obliterated, the tissue breaks down into molecular substance and dries, while the fluid is absorbed by the surrounding vessels. The same process may take place in tissues which are infiltrated with blood, such as the htemor- rhagic infarctus of the lungs, spleen, or kidneys met with in heart disease ; though the more common result is for these masses to be completely absorbed. (3) A caseous mass may also result Irom the inspissation and degeneration of pus, if an abscess become incapsulated and prevented from discharging its contents ; but this mode of origin is not so common as has been supposed, lhe whole process has received the name of caseation or tyrosis (Tvpoy=cheese); the result is, we may repeat, the production of what is called indifferently yellow tubercle or scrofulous or caseous matter. This caseous or scrofulous material undergoes two metamorphoses of very great importance ; one is that of soften- 7/.th° other that of cretification. Softening consists in the texture of the mass becoming more lax and moist, with notable increase of size, the change proceeding till it breaks up into a yellowish, dif- fluent, cheesy mass, which finally becomes a thin, whey-like fluid, of acid reaction, containing minute flocculi. The change seems nrst to affect the homogeneous basis-substance, which dissolves into a kind of fluid, loaded with pulverulent molecules ; the cor- puscular elements in consequence of this are set free, and, at the same time, are themselvos more or Jess corroded and dissolved J-ne softened tubercle thus consists of (1) a fluid loaded with efif’ lusecl granulous matter; (2) traces of altered nuclei and cells- te) tree oil m the form of various sized drops. It may also contain debris of the tissues. The cretifying chango consists in the gradual