570 NEW GROWTHS IN THE STOMACH. by most English pathologists, including Hunter and Eaillie, that the appearances just described are solely due to cadaveric change. On the other, several continental authorities, as Cruveilhier and Bokitansky, have attributed them to a special disease, or have supposed that there were two forms of softening, that due simply to post-mortem digestion, and another due to disease, called Gastromalacia, and alleged to be specially prevalent in children. It has, however, been shown (especially by Elsasser) that the existence of such a disease is extremely improbable, and rests on no evidence; so that the original explanation of Hunter must be maintained. The alleged frequency of softening in children is probably to be accounted for by the excessive production of lactic acid in the acid fermentation of milk contained in their stomachs. The favouring conditions are, however, difficult to trace. NEW GROWTHS IN THE STOMACH. Fatty tumours, originating in the submucous tissue, and increas- ing in size, may either press inwards towards the cavity of the stomach, or outwards, towards the peritoneal sac. In either situation they may be sessile, or pedunculated. Lymphoid growths have been seen in cases of general lympho-sarcoma, or “ adenie.” Fibroid nodules sometimes form in the areolar sub- mucous tissue, “ chiefly in the vicinity of the cardiac orifice, and the lesser curvature.” Tumours of smooth muscle-fibre have also been described. Erectile tissue may be developed at the free ex- tremity of polypoid growths, or may occupy a larger surface ot a sessile tumour. Tubercle is very rarely seen in the stomach, an only occurs in cases ‘ ‘ where intestinal tuberculosis has advanced to an extreme degree.” Cancerous disease of the stomach is frequently met with ; this organ ranks next to the uterus in the list of mortality from this cause. Primary cancer exists in the majority of cases. I)r. Walshe speaks of secondary “as almost unknown,” except where it invades the organ from extension o adjacent growths. One such case of secondary cancer has been recorded by Cohnheim. It is not uncommon to find a solitary growth in the stomach, no other part being implicated, prob.i v in consequence of the fact that cancer attacking so vital an oigan as the stomach causes death at a comparatively early period, be ore time has been given for extension to other organs. . pylorus,” says Bokitansky, “ indifferently at all parts of its ci. cumference, is known to be the chief seat of primary fibrous an areolar cancer of the stomach. From this point the degenera i extends chiefly along the lesser curvature over the pyloric ha the stomach ; in many, though severe cases, it affects t“® stomach, attacking the fundus last, which, however, gei< ■ . remains partially free. The panetes of the stomach may attam an inch in thickness, being rigid and generally tubercu.