MINUTE CHANGES IN BICKETS. 8o0 a tissue formed out of cartilage, which may he called osteoid carti- lage, containing rows of proliferating cartilage cells, and angular corpuscles with some resemblance to bone corpuscles, hut without canaliculi. The intervening substance is often calcified (as are sometimes the corpuscles themselves), a fact to which Sir W. Jenner attaches much importance. This is calcified cartilage, a very different thing from bone. Kolliker, however, who has been followed by Yirchow and Kindfleisch, alleges that there is a direct transformation of this cartilage into bone. This hypothesis is contrary to what the latest researches teach us to believe respecting the ossification of cartilage, and must be regarded as doubtful. The actual process of bone formation, when the rickety changes come to an end, is not known. Some of the trabeculce appear simply fibrous. With respect to the red m'edullary pulp, much of this is normal in structure; but a fibrous transformation of it into connective tissues is described as occurring in some parts, which gives rise to what Yirchow calls osteoid tissue, regarded by him as the prelimi- nary stage of bone-formation. In the periosteum we see the same fact as at the boundary line between bone and cartilage, namely, a great extension of the belt of vascular and embryonic, or granulation-like tissue, which is normally found in periosteal ossification. So vascular and soft is this tissue, that it was formerly imagined to show haemorrhage between the bone and periosteum. This tissue changes into bone by the usual method of ossification in vascular tissue; but the bone formed remains, according to Rindileisch, for a long time in a rudimentary condition, like an osteophyte, and is gradually changed into perfect bone. As the thickness of ossifying tissue is here much greater than normal, we see why the boues should be. during the process of ossification, and even permanently, thickened. These changes may be summed up as showing an abundant formatiou of the materials which precede ossification, but no bone production. Nor is this simply due to absence of lime, since this is deposited, though not in the right way to form bone.