THE EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. 43 caused by adhesion of the labia pudendi. The closure in these cases is usually not complete, being limited to the posterior half of the orifice, and, when detected in infancy, may generally be remedied. If, however, owing to the neglect of the surgeon or the parents, the adhesion is suffered to remain, a firm membranous septum is formed which may need operative measures of an active kind. Inflammation.—Inflammatory affections of the labia may arise from internal and external causes, and exhibit the various forms of inflammation met with in other superficial textures. Ecze- matous and aphthous inflammation, as a result of derangement of the digestive organs, of pregnancy, of a want of cleanliness, or of sexual over-indulgence, are common. Eczema is characterized by the appearance of a vesicular eruption scattered over the inner or outer surface of the labia. The vesicles break and scab, and they are the source of much of the pruritus to which females are subject. The loose cellular tissue, occupying the interval between the external and internal labia, especially favours cedematous swell- ing, and, when the inflammation bears a phlegmonous character, extensive sloughs form. Instances of this in early life are recorded by Mr. Kinderwood,* who witnessed an epidemic at Manchester, marked by great fatality. The mucous crypts, especially the aggregation lying on each side of the vestibulum, and termed by Bartholinus the female prostate, are liable to inflammation from catarrhal, herpetic, syphilitic, or other causes, resulting in chronic ulceration or tedious discharges. Even young children are frequently liable to simple or benignant inflammatory affections of these parts, giving: rise to much irrita- tion and muco-purulent secretion—a circumstance with which it is necessary to be acquainted, as popular prejudice is only too prone to attribute it to contagion. Abscess in Bartholini’s gland is dis- tinguished from abscess in the cellular tissue of the labium majus, or from ischiorectal abscess, by its being limited to the furrow between the labia and by its pointing on the inner side of the nympha, or in the furrow. Warts, due generally to the results of impure intercourse, but not necessarily associated with a syphilitic taint, frequently dis- figure the vulva. They resemble in all respects the similar warty excrescences commonly met with about the prepuce of men suffer- ing from urethral discharge. They may be pedunculated, and no larger than small peas, or many warts conglomerating, both labia may be converted into a tumour of great size, whose surface is phaggy, with firm pale coarse papillary projections bathed in an offensive and highly irritating discharge. When such a mass is removed, the subcutaneous connective tissue is found to be little altered, the changes being limited to an hypertrophy of the skin, the papilla) being specially the seat of the overgrowth. • “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. vii. p. 81.