402 INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. the most destructive character result from this process. In this case a soft, straw-coloured spot forms m the centre of the coa- . o-ulum, the lamination of the latter disappears, until the whole is converted into a grumous mass. When portions of this mass are propelled into the circulation, the symptoms of poisoning result, and we find particles of the morbid product becoming arrested in the pulmonary circulation, and there occasioning coagulation ol the blood, or the formation of abscesses. Coagula resulting from this cause are most commonly met with in the right side of the heart, and in the distribution of the pulmonary arteries. They are laminated, and are softened in the interior, where there may be a nucleus of puriform matter. The introduction of these matters into the circulation is generally accompanied with symptoms of a general prostration of the powers, of the most intense character, which are due rather to the infection of the blood, or pyiemia, than to local results in the shape of lobular abscesses, or secondary purulent deposits in distant viscera. The local results are doubt-1 less due to the infective properties of the transported masses, since simple emboli do not produce at all the same changes; and these properties probably depend upon their being ^bued^thsome poison from the original seat of inflammation. It is thus one of the forms of pyaemia; hut an affection of tHe terns is by no between secondary deposits and local injuries Morgagni imd Desault had particularly alluded to abscesses m the ^er foUowmj cerebral lesions, hut it was reserved for Arnott and Dams to show the actual physical connection between these occurrences, and to establish the real nature of the so-called phlebitis. The iatter was the first to demonstrate that it is the pathological p e- nomenon constituting phlegmasia alba doleus, a malady accom- panyTg the puerperl state, which had previously been attributed to a reflux of the lochia, to milk depots, or to obstruction of the Ivnmhatics He showed, by a post-mortem examination of four fetal cases that it resulted from “inflammationof one or more of the principal veins within, and in the immediate neighbourhood of, Se pelms1 producing an increased thickness in their coats, coagu- lation of their contents, and occasionally a destructive suppui a ^ of their whole texture. Many cases of puerperal fevei aie m J due to infective thrombosis of the veins of the uterus, and second.ny inflammations induced thereby. This appears to have been mo particularly the case with the frightful endemic of P^/pwaUcver, & -J, very recently, to ragem thegr«t Vienna. Dr. Semelweiss made the discovery tha ■ ; d due to the introduction of poisonous matter into the to uterus of parturient women, by the medicalmena A.l - had recently been handling post-mortem specimens, me pi 1 ‘ Medico-Cliir. Trans.,” vol. XT. p. 1. + Ibid. vol. xii. p. 419.