PNEUMATOSIS. 72 natural air-containing cavities, the lungs and air passages, or to the stomach and intestines, which may contain air swallowed with the food, or gases arising from its decomposition. Many cases, such as the presence of air in the meninges, the pericardium, the medi- astinum, are known to he explicable by the entrance of air during the dissection. Air in the pleura, it is generally admitted, can come only from the lungs; in the peritoneum (for the immense majority of cases) from the intestine, only in the rarest instances gas being actually liberated there by the decomposition of sanious pus, or similar matter. We have a right, then, to regard with the greatest suspicion all cases of apparently spontaneous production of gas, and to exhaust, as far as "possible, other explanations before resorting to the hypothesis of its actual generation. It must he admitted, however, that it is not always easy to explain the origin of gaseous accumulations, ,and the obscurity of such cases gives them an interest out of proportion to their pathological importance. In the Hunterian Museum are pre- served some classical specimens of gaseous cysts, of which it has been said that they “ should be admired, or rather venerated, for their histories include the honourable names of Hunter, of Jenner, of Cavendish ” (Sir J. Paget). These cysts were attached to the intestine of a hog, and were sent "by Jenner to Hunter. Cavendish analysed the air contained, and found what in the language of modern chemistry would mean atmospheric air with excess of carbonic acid and diminished proportion of oxygen. No explana- tion is given of their occurrence, but they were said by Jenner to be common in the intestines of hogs killed in the summer months. The editor of this work met with a very similar specimen in the peritoneum of a man who died with ulceration in the stomach, where small cysts containing gas were attached to the outside of the intestines. The gas was found, as in the case just mentioned, to consist of atmospheric air with excess of carbonic acid and marked diminution of oxygen. In this case it was thought that air con- tained in the stomach (which was greatly distended from pyloric constriction) had found its way, by means of the ulcer, between the coats and along the intestinal wall, till it dilated the serous covering into the form of cysts; the latter becoming in the end permanent structures. In another case, a similar subperitoneal emphysema was observed as a consequence of cancer of the oeso- phagus, and probably from a similar cause.* It is of course always important to determine the absolute impossibility of the gas arising from post-mortem changes, since an appearance called post-mortem emphysema is not uncommon : where gas is produced in numerous small cavities in the viscera by rapid putrefaction, aided by bacteria. This occurs especially in gangrenous or septi- ccemic conditions, and of course more often in hot weather. Payne: Trans. Path. Soc., xxii. 33C. 1S71.