377 CHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. have seen, produces yellowness and opacity in the new-formed mass, causes its softening and liquefaction. The mass, which was previously tough and resistant, becomes soft and crumbling, and finally breaks down into a sort of yellow pasty mass properly called atheroma,* or an “ atheromatous abscess.” This change first takes place in the deep layer of the inner coat, bordering on the middle coat, and thus the softened mass or abscess appears to be covered by the whole thickness of the inner coat. It is this which has led to the opinion that the whole athero- matous process takes place beneath the inner coat, or between it and the middle coat. The process of degeneration, however, gradu- ally spreads inwards and outwards. Inwards it involves the whole thickness of the inner coat, till the softened mass is covered only by a thin membrane. Outwards the same degeneration may ex- tend into the middle coat, the connective tissue and muscular fibres of which may both be affected. When the thinning of the inner coat becomes extreme it is absorbed or ruptured, forming either a large opening or else minuto perforations. If the former, an excavation like an ulcer may result. By these openings doubtless some “ atheromatous ” matter must escape into the blood, but the conditions or conse- quences of this have not been traced. On the other hand, blood enters the depression or cavity, and becoming coagulated, the degenerated blood-clot is mixed with the atheromatous matter. Small masses of coagulum, or “ vegetations,” may also be formed on the edge of such an excavation. • Calcareous Degeneration.—The second form of advanced degene- ration is the calcareous, which has also been termed “ossifica- tion of arteries. It must, however, be remembered that (as in . the case of fatty degeneration) calcification of some part of the coats of the artery may occur quite independently of the chronic inflammation connected with atheromatous disease. When it occurs as a result ot the disease now under consideration, the pro- cess consists in the deposition of calcareous matter in the thick- . ened inner coat in such quantity as to convert this into a bone- . like mass. The innermost layer is at first unaffected, and passes smoothly over the calcified structures, but after a time this is | fdher calcified or absorbed, so that the calcareous plates lie bare to the blood-current. In the other direction calcification may extend into the middle coat till a considerable thickness of the whole arterial wall is thus affected, and plates of even a line or more in thickness may result. The calcareous masses thus pro- duced project in the most varied and fantastic forms, into the cur- rent of the blood ; thus, in its turn, giving rise to further deposits m the shape of fibrinous coagula; or the bony deposit advances untlor the lining membrane, till it encircles the artery and con- verts it into a rigid channel, inducing that condition which is ’ Etymology, from u#^f.n=groats or meal; a pulp made thereof - lienee =a tumour filled with similar substance (Galen). ’ ce’ u0'^WMU