VARIETIES OP HYPEREMIA. 44 it is very doubtful whether aneurismal disease is ever occasioned by it. Local or Partial Hyperaemia.—We must remark with regard to local hyperaemia, as we did with respect to local anaemia, that it differs from general hyperaemia or plethora, not only in the less extent to which it exists, but in not involving any qualitative alteration of the blood. Local hyperaemia, in fact, is not exactly local plethora; it simply implies that too much blood is accu- mulated in the vessels of a part, without taking any count of the nature of this blood. Hyperaemia of a part is a phenomenon which naturally attracts attention, and has been considered and com- mented on from the earliest times. It exists in the most various conditions, from that of increased vital power of the functional activity of an organ to that of cessation of all action in it, its death, and decomposition. One of the best examples of a physio- logical and natural hyperaemia is afforded by the female breast during the period of lactation ; the vessels proceeding to it enlarge considerably, and it manifestly receives much more blood than at other times. So great is the flow of blood to the part that it not unfrequently happens, owing to a deficiency of secretory power, that the healthy hyperaemia becomes excessive, and a cause of inflammatory disease. The limits of physiological hyperaemia are pretty wide. It is often striking to observe how much more blood is contained in the vessels of a part that is actively employed than would be present there under ordinary circumstances. Indeed, there is much to lead one to the belief that it is not so much the amount of hyperaemia that determines the transition from the healthy to the morbid state, as the alteration of the vital condition of the tissues of the part. This view is borne out by the fact that artificial hyperaemia produced in one side of the head by section of the cervical sympathetic, an experiment which has been performed in numberless instances, does not, as a rule, or without some additional irritation, lead to actual inflammation or disease of the part. Some experimenters, as Schiff, have observed hyper- trophy affecting the hair and skin, but even this is a rare and occasional phenomenon. VARIETIES OF HYPERiEMIA. In endeavouring to study the various conditions under which hyperaemia occurs, we shall consider, first, hyperaemia with dimi- nished motion of the blood in the part; second, hyperaemia with increased motion, or, as they have been also called, Passive and Active Hypercemia. The first of these states may be designated congestion— the second, determination of blood. This arrangement has the advantage of classing together several conditions in which hyper- aemia is a prominent phenomenon; but it is not certain — especially as respects determination of blood—that it is founded