abnormal constituents of the blood. 31 The condition commonly called anaemia should, it would seem, more properly he named hydraemia, since in most cases it is not so : much a deficient quantity of blood, which it is intended to describe, as a defective quality. Perhaps a person reduced greatly by : phthisis, or any exhausting disease, is really in a state of anaemia, he has less blood than natural in his body, as well as too watery; l but a female suffering from the consequences of amenorrhoea, with ipale lips and face, is much more likely to be in a state of hydrse- imia, the mass of blood not being diminished, but its red corpuscles i replaced by water. The excess cannot, however, be sufficient i materially to alter the density of the fluid, since the corpuscles {preserve their form. ABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. Having examined the variations which the several constituent (elements of the blood are liable to undergo, we next proceed to imake a few remarks on certain abnormal matters which are occa- -sionally present in it. Carbonic acid gas, the product of respiration, i.e., of the conveyance of oxygen throughout every part of the tframe, becomes, if it accumulates beyond a certain small amount in the blood, the cause of serious disorder and speedily of death. 'Various diseases of the thoracic viscera, or impediments to the free ^action of the walls of the chest, prevent more or less the due oxy- genation of the blood, which is indicated by the dusky hue of the -complexion, the lividity of the lips, the sensation of oppression at ' the chest, and of dyspnoea. The larger the quantity of blood which ;is circulating in the vessels, and the more vigorous the state of health and the general activity of the functions, the greater must be the accumulation of carbonic acid when any asphyxiating cause begins to operate, and the more severely will its effects be mani- fested. If, however, the mass of blood be greatly diminished by exhausting drains, by diminution of food, and by non-develop- ment of its corpuscles, then the amount of respiratory action may be also greatly diminished without producing the svmptoms above mentioned. Thus, if a person in health should suddenly be deprived of one-half or three-fourths of his breathing apparatus, he would quickly die, suffocated; but a patient in the last stage of phthisis, whose lungs are destroyed to the same extent, may continue to live on without experiencing any notable dyspnoea! distress. In the same way, when during violent exertion, a .greatly increased quantity of carbonic acid is formed, the amount of oxygen introduced into the lungs requires to be increased in {proportion; and hence one cause of the hurried and pantim* : respiration. A hybernating animal scarcely breathes at all; its animal heat is not above tho temperature of the atmosphere, and all its functions are in abeyance; carbonic acid, therefore,' is not formed, and the inhalation of oxygen is not necessary \