04 2 PARASITES U? THE LIVER. suppurate much, more frequently than those in other parts.’ Other . circumstances, however, may certainly cause these cysts to inflame and suppurate. The detailed description of the structure of hj datid cysts will he found under the head of Parasites, p. 210; it will, therefore, he sufficient to mention here that they possess an outer wall or envelope, formed of condensed areolar tissue and that of • the surrounding structure; within which, and rather loosely adhering to it, is the proper membrane. This is white and lami- nated, and is itself lined internally by a softish layer m which the echinococci are developed. The cavity of the primary cyst is occupied in some instances by a transparent limpid fluid only; m others, and the majority, it also contains a numerous progeny of secondary cysts, sometimes sterile, sometimes containing .nnu- merahle scolices or echinococcus heads, known under the microscope by their ring of booklets. Dr. Budd mentions the interesting tact, that in cases where suppuration has occurred m the cavity of the primary cysts, the secondary hydatids, though floating in purulent matter themselves, contam a perfectly limpid fluid. He also points out characters whereby to distinguish between an abscess and a suppurated hydatid cyst, in the differences which the cystic membranes m the two cases present, inat ot an abscess consists of dense fibroid tissue, is not laminated, and never contains calcareous matter. The hydatid membrane docs not adhere so firmly to the surrounding tissue, is markedly lami- nated, and in old cases contains very often plate or grains of calcareous matter in its coats. When an hydatid tumour has evacuated its contents as above described, it may collapse and a cure he effected ; hut if its walls are veiy thick and film, and the cavity large, its obliteration in this way may be impossibly and then there is too much reason to fear that, owing to the ent™n“ of air or other matters, suppurative inflammation of the sac will be excited, and the drain exhaust the strength of the patient. But an hydatid cyst may come to a spontaneous cure in a different way, it! proper membrane, instead of secreting a watery fluid, may produce a putty-like matter, consisting of phosphate and mint carbonate of lime, with cholestenne and albuminoid matter, gen rally stained with bile. This accumulates within the sac, or so™ times around it, imbeds the secondary hydatids and ^ses tee to shrivel up and perish. Such a change reminds one forcibly pf the cretification of tubercle, which is often observed in casef , the tubercular process has ceased, and the deposited matt been partially absorbed. Hydatids in the liver ?-le , w frequently associated with hydatids m other parts, i ‘ , lobes of the lungs, or in the spleen, or m the mesentery, in , Some doubt may exist whether the ,taSlt* globules.