INFLAMMATION OF THE UTERUS. 777 membrane, of the muscular walls, and of tbe surrounding struc- tures. Independently of tbe puerperal state, it is at tbe period of menstruation that tbe uterus is most liable to all forms of inflammation. We shall first describe separately tbe non-puer- peral forms. Endometritis, or inflammation of tbe lining membrane, is the commonest form. It may be acute or chronic. Acute endometritis, or uterine catarrh, affects more especially the body and fundus of the uterus, the cervical portion being little altered. The mucous membrane appears deeply injected, swollen, velvety, and sometimes partly loosened. The glandular orifices appear prominent and open, the gland tubes themselves elongated. Minute haemorrhagic spots are sometimes seen. The vaginal por- tion of the uterus is also injected and swollen. The secretion is at first clear, afterwards purulent. The inflammation may spread to the Fallopian tubes or to the vagina, if it has not originated there. It often passes into a chronic form. Chronic endometritis, or catarrh, is a part of the affection com- monly known as leucorrhcea. It affects more especially the cer- vical portion, which does not appear injected, but shows an unusual number of ovula Nabothi, which are also enlarged and often become pedunculated, hanging down as minute polypi. The vaginal portion is enlarged, spongy, and shows a charac- teristic red granular surface. Ulceration of the oervix and os uteri often result from long-continued catarrh, and present an eaten, corroded appearance. Obstruction of the os internum or externum may also result. The discharge is either viscid, straw- colouied, and transparent, or else red, purulent, and even san- guinolent. Metritis, or inflammation of the substance of the uterus, inde- pendent of the puerperal state, is very rare. It may follow injury or irritation, or may result from the presence of new growths, or from other sources. The uterus swells, becomes softened, reddened, unusually succulent, and infiltrated with small extravasations There is always at the same time endometritis, the mucous mem- brane being swollen and softened. This acute metritis may spread to the peritoneal cavity of the uterus and of the neighbouring organs. In rare cases it is said that suppuration occurs, and abscesses are formed in the uterine walls. On the other hand, ' affection may result in complete resolution, or may pass into v chronic inflammation. Chronic metritis, according to Scanzoni, occurs in two stages (11 a stage of infiltration, or softening, with hypersemia; (2) a stage of thickening, or induration, accompanied by anaemia. The chronic : inflammation results from chronic congestion, induced by heart i disease as well as from acute disease. It is always accompanied by < chronic catarrh. ' Perimetritis is the name given to inflammation of the peritoneal covering of the uterus, which, as usually involving the neighbour-