Hemorrhage, otymol. c*W, blood ; I rupture ; Jayut, a cleft, a fissure. CHAPTEE XXX. THE BRONCHIAL TUBES. 1 The diseases of the bronchial tubes affect the individual very dif- itferently, according as the larger or smaller divisions are the seat of the morbid action. Thus the same amount of tumefaction which, An the mucous membrane of the bronchi near the trachea, will •scarcely give rise to any inconvenience, will, in the finer ramifica- :.tions, be the cause of intense dyspnoea and danger. The terminal points of the respiratory system, in this respect, resemble each other; an acute tumefaction about the aperture of the larynx, and * at the opposite end of the bronchial tree, may equally induce suf- ! focative symptoms. . Moreover, it is not always easy to determine ' the limits of bronchial and parenchymatous disease of the lungs ; ;iand it is scarcely possible that inflammatory affections of the latter can take place without involving the smaller bronchi. Bronchial Hypercemia and _ Ho&morrliage. — Hypenemia of the ^bronchial mucous membrane is a phenomenon of everyday occur- rence, accompanying catarrh, and gastro-mtestinal, hepatic or car- Iidiac affections, and manifested in its most marked forms by litemor- Aiomoptysis, which in the early or preliminary stages of HHithisis is usually dejiendent on bronchial haemorrhage, is rarely .idiopathic as a mere result of plethora, but commonly associated with a deeper seated morbid affection; a crasis subsequently mani- festing itself by further disorganization, or an organic disease, which has already been discovered. Pathologists have not yet succeeded in demonstrating the exact manner in which capillary -tuemorrhage takes place; in a few instances of advanced tuber- culosis, patulous vessels which were eroded by the progress of the ulceration, have been discovered, to which pulmonary ha3inorrha°-e 'ould be attributed ; but the common process by which the blood s discharged, is perhaps analogous to the “ sweating” of blood, Py which, the menstrual flow has been observed to be effected; it s rather by what has been termed exhalation or cliapedesis that ;he overloaded vessels relieve themselves, than, as the term ifemorrhago* implies, by laceration or rupture. The researches of