139 NEW GROWTH OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. organs. Many examples of what is called neuroma come under this head, and many which were formerly called colloid tumours; also some polypi of mucous surfaces and the ‘ ‘ fibro-cellular tumours, properly so calledof Sir J. Paget. Mixed tumours, in which this form is combined with some other kind of growth, are more common than the pure myxoma. Such are the myxoma lipomatodes, or combination with fatty tumour, where part of the tumour is composed of adipose tissue, into which the mucous tissue insensibly passes :* myxoma cartilagineum or myxo-chondroma, a tumour partly composed of cartilage. Cartilaginous tumours not un- commonly contain masses of gelatinous consistence, apparently derived from metamorphosis of their original structure, which are really identical with the structure of myxoma, f Myxoma fibrosum contains a large amount of fibrous connective tissue, and examples are also met with containing yellow elastic tissue. Myxoma is in general a perfectly innocent tumour, though it may recur after removal, or occur in a multiple form in the same tissue. There is no undoubted instance of its attacking different kinds of tissue simultaneously, or passing from one tissue to another by contiguity. III.—NEW GROWTH OF ADIPOSE TISSUE ; FATTY TUMOURS. The production of adipose tissue, either as tumour and as a diffused mass, is a very common process. Local accumulations of fatty tissue are found in the interior or exterior of wasted organs (of which the kidney is the best instance), but can hardly be said to constitute a. disease, except, perhaps, iu the remarkable inter- stitial production of fat in muscles known as false muscular hypertrophy. General accumulation of fat, or general hyperplasia of adipose tissue, constituting corpulence or obesity, depends mainly on nutrition. Circumscribed productions of adipose tissue are the well-known fatty tumours. Fatty tumours, or Lipomata, as they are sometimes termed, are of frequent occurrence. They consist of normal fat cells, closely packed together, and invested byarathersparingquantity of common connective tissue. Occasionally this investment is more developed, and constitutes a kind of enveloping cyst; occasionally, also, it dips down, and forms a cystoid covering to separate portions of the tumour. They occur most often singly, but not unfrequently several exist together in the subcutaneous tissue. They attain, occasionally, an enormous size, so that records speak of specimens several feet in diameter, and weighing twenty to forty pounds. Probably the largest tumour on record is a fatty tumour of which a drawing is preserved in tho Warren Anatomical Museum at iioston, U.S.A. It was much largor than the rest of tho body ol tho unfortunate woman m whom it originated; and was esti- * See “Trans. Path. Soo.,” vnl. xx., p. 343. 1839 + See Paget, “ Surgical Pathology,” second edition, p 499.