833 NECROSIS. membrane. These abscesses are small, and situated near the ends oaf the long bones. If the pus in them should become inspissated amd caseous, it would obviously become what is called a “ scrofulous (ileposit in bone.” The distinction between ostitis and osteomyelitis is by no means tclear. In ostitis the elements concerned are not the bone-cells, 1 mt the embryonic cells derived from the medulla, and these col- lected in large masses produce the changes of osteomyelitis, so thhat ostitis is myelitis of compact bone. On the other hand, •-hough we might speak of sclerotic or productive osteomyelitis forming bone in the medullary oavity, that process is more L'tften spoken of as ostitis. The embryonic cells may, in fact, in -Either case, degenerate into pus corpuscles, producing abscess, nr they may take the character of osteoblasts, and new bone be Fcormed. NECROSIS. By necrosis is meant the death of a portion of bone, just as in necrosis or gangrene of soft parts. The death of a portion of bone >s caused by some influence interfering with the supply of blood to it. The circulation may be interrupted by violent lesions, as fracture or crushing (by separation of the periosteum, it is supposed), by thrombosis or other obstruction of the nutrient artery, or, as '’orster says, by excessive cold or heat. This is known as primary necrosis. It may also be, and is much more frequently consequence of inflammation of bone in either of its three forms, sstitis, osteomyelitis, or periostitis. Special forms of necrosis are due to the poison of phosphorus, >rr to mercury in certain constitutions. These, as well as the ccrofulous and syphilitic forms, appear to be really consequences :f inflammation. Necrosis attacks chiefly the compact tissue, and is, therefore, most frequently met with in the shafts of long bones, from which 1; rarely extends into the epiphyses, though instances of its doing ) are on record, as in the case of the tibia ; in the instance from hioh Fig. 190 is taken, the process is seen to extend through the • eck of the femur into the head of the bone, and even to affect the inominatum. The relative frequency of its occurrence in different ones is stated to be in the following order:—The tibia, the femur, ue humerus, the cranial bones, the lower jaw, the last phalanx of >ie finger, the clavicle, ulna, radius, fibula, scapula, upper iaw Pelvic bones, sternum, and ribs. Dead bone is known by being white, opaque, dry, and sonorous ken struck ; also by being separated wholly or partially from its jnnection with surrounding parts. When exposed to the air Ji'en indirectly, it often becomes black or discoloured. It often baows traces of past inflammation; being either condensed i olerotic) or rarefied. 3 ii