INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. 588 the name of a distinct variety of inflammation, should be described as inflammation of the intestinal walls, since the changes of the mucous membrane are not characteristic. The effects produced by this, which, indeed, are just those of common inflammation, liave already been several times adverted to; but we think it well to subjoin the following excellent description from the pen of Dr. Copland:—“ The villous coat in acute enteritis is not only more vascular and turgid, but it is also softer, and sometimes thicker than natural. If the inflammation has proceeded far, it presents a brick-red tinge, and is easily detached from the subjacent coats, the connecting cellular tissue being soft, turgid, and inflamed. When this state exists in a considerable portion of the tube, the coats are apparently thickened, arising from the extension of the inflammation to the more external tissues, till the attached surface of the intestinal peritoneum is reached. The substance or parietes of the bowels may be considered as affected in these cases, even although the external surface may present no further lesion than red vessels shooting into it. Occasionally, in addition to this state, the red capillaries in the inflamed peritoneal coat are con- nected with the effusion of coagulable lymph, particularly in the parts where they are most numerous, the lymph or albuminous exudation existing in specks, or in considerable spots or patches, on the serous surface. When, however, these latter appearances are remarked, the interior of the inflamed intestine frequently presents more serious changes than yet noticed. The villous sur- face is then deeply inflamed, and seems abraded or excoriated in parts. It is sometimes, in other parts, covered by patches of lymph, or of an albumino-puriform, or muco-puriform fluid, or by a sero-sanious matter; and it is often also eccliymosed in numerous points or specks, or it presents still larger marks of sanguineous infiltration. In other cases, portions of a dark, slate- coloured, or sphacelated hue are observed, with or without ulcer- ated specks, or even large ulcers, which have nearly penetrated as far as the external coat, in adjoining parts.” Sometimes then, ulcers actually perforate the intestinal wall, and give rise to escape of the contents. “ In the forms of enteritis in which the substance of the intestine, or its peritoneal coat, is chiefly affected, either primarily or consecutively, the whole of the coats are often very vascular, red, or of a brick-red colour, and are readily torn.” Suppuration sometimes takes place between the coats, as in an in- teresting case recorded in the Pathological Society’s Eeports, 1851-52, by Dr. Hare. General peritonitis not unfrequently occurs, in which the omentum may markedly participate, becoming greatly thickened and red. Croupous and Diphtheritic Inflammation.—The intestinal mucous surface is sometimes the seat of a kind of inflammatory process which is mostly subacute or chronic, and gives rise to an exuda- tion much resembling that of croup. It is remarkable that the attacks often recur several times, each presenting a stage of irrita-