255 CONGESTION. subject, to the illustration of which disease they are frequently applied. We have yet to determine the ratio in which mere press ■ ure influences the cerebral functions, as compared with the fre- quency m which disturbance is excited, and a fatal issue produced by a poisoned condition of the blood, as in ureemia resulting from granular degeneration of the kidneys. It is, however, sufficiently evident that deficient supply of blood to the brain or anaemia mav be a cause of disordered function, and we are acquainted with two conditions, one temporary the other lasting, by which amentia of the brain acute and chronic, may be produced. Spasmodic con- traction of the muscles of the small arteries would cause momentary antenna, and has been assigned as the cause of epilepsy and similar functional derangements; while the thickening of the walls of arteries and diminution of their calibre, in consequence of athe- loma, will in the brain as in other parts, cause the supply of blood to be chronically deficient. The former of these conditions will of : course leave no .signs visible after death, and the latter scarcely ■ any that are unmistakeable. J CONGESTION. aJVllen the congestion of the brain is considerable, the entire 01 an may present an increase of volume and turgidity. On slicing it the grey matter may exhibit a deeper tinge than usual but its natura1 hue prevents the alteration of colour from beiim very ner- (.epable. The white matter shows an increase of the red dots indicating the blood-vessels, and mav, as it does particularly in mu tant TUme a Snnel'al pinky tiut from the sami cause. This must not, however, be confounded with the colour imparted to it blond1' dl7id*s the blood-vessels, and acSglo Jhe ' fa« L r l contained in them, smears it over the brain sur- acc, bj carefully wiping or scraping it we shall be enabled to ' vervforcfbK whlch,f use the colour is due. Scipion Pinel* dwells of Vl, b “ llPnU tho occurrence of congestion of the grey matter of the brain as the main pathological feature accompanying mania livelv red o8 thie the C01’tical tissue as pres^nTg a Xll bZ t’ -th° ^ rlte .,Ttter bein- leps altered in this 2 ’ b 1S° offering a hvid hue, with occasional blackish patches, or more or less extended ecchymos^s. Cono-esfinn «T neninges is more frequently found independently of ^comrestion of )iam than the converse; but we must look for tho h-ti+a ' especially in cases in which death has taken place m conta^T of poisoning from opium, in epilepsy and apopexvVTS V ® hooping-cough, in fever accompanied by command in hvr eT i'S’ 1 of the heart and granular kidney. * ’ m hypertrophy Turguhty of the blood-vessels in the membranes and brain has Iraitt de Pathologic Cerchrale,” p. 193. pal.iS) lg44