212 ANIMAL PABA8ITES. irritants so easily escape notice, how much more may those which generate fevers and influenzas ? The Helminthic parasites are the most important which infest man. Of these the group Nematoidea presents us with the follow- ing forms:—{1) Filaria medinensu, the Guinea worm, from six inches to twelve feet long, about as thick as a piece of packthread. It makes its way into the subcutaneous tissue of the lower limbs and some other parts, where it remains a variable time without exciting any particular symptoms, but when its progeny are approaching the period for their extrusion it makes its way out, or is extracted by hand. The symptoms of this period are sometimes' slight, sometimes very severe. If ruptured during extraction the young escape into the cellular texture, and excite an unhealthy suppuration. (2) Filaria oculi humarii, discovered in the surround- ing fluid and in the crystalline lens. (3) Filaria bronchiaJis once found in diseased bronchial glands. Other filaria have been found in the blood and in the urine (spiroptera hominis, dactylius aculeatus). (4) Trichina spiralis occurs in the human body, both in the mature and the immature condition. The mature form ia found in the intestines of man and other animals. It is a bi- sexual and viviparous worm. The male is about vVim long; the female Ain. or -Jin. It is tapering at the anterior ex- tremity, blunt at the posterior, and has a perfect alimentarv canal divided into pharynx, stomach, and intestine, with distinct sexual organs. The immature or larval form is most commonly met with,aand occurs in muscle. It is a minute round worm, ^ to j_in long, without any obvious internal organs except an intestinal canal with distinct oral and anal openings. It occurs enclosed in a transparent cyst, which is situate in the interior of the fibres of voluntary muscles, separated by the sarcolemma from all surrounding texture. Sometimes there are two or three worms in one cyst. Sometimes the cyst contains calcareous matter, m which case the worm is most commonly dead. The history of this animal is very singular. The immature forms met with in muscle seem to be incapable, in that situation, of complete deveiopment. For this purpose it is necessary that the muscle should be eaten l y a carnivorous animal, in the stomach or intestine of which the trichina reaches in two days complete sexual maturity , propa a tion then takes place, and the young embryoes being boin alive, immediately commence their- migrations through yanous ti^, till they reach the muscles, where they ultimately settle down. In man the presence of trichina- m large numbers formidable febrile disease, which may prove . “nias^ pork containing trichina is the usual source of pathological significance of isolated specimens when encysted is not great; they have often been found in persons who have drg of different diseases, and oven m those who pcHshed v lie health and vigour. (5) Tricocephalm dispar, a thin fi^onn-T™! one and a-half to two inches in length. Its anterior two-third, ar