TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OX7 THE LIVER. G34 and. normally in the spleen, pancreas, and some other parts of the b°Some pathologists have described a condition of red atrophy, very similar to the yellow, and occurring likewise man acute form, with febrile symptoms; but we do not see sufficient reason for making it a distinct disease. The name is also unfortunate, as it has been used for the very different condition of “nutmeg liver. Partial acute atrophy sometimes occurs the characteristic changes being found in certain portions of the liver, white the 161OfaLw”/ Acute Yellow Atrophy.-The causes of this disease are unknown. It has been found that phosphorus poisoning produces a somewhat similar affection, and hence it has been suggested that there may be cases of accidental phosphorus poisomng, which seems very unlikely. Syphilis has been present in a rather notable proportion ““sol, but can hardly bo invoked a, a canoe. Some observers have referred the whole to acute inflammation. tumours and new growths of the liver. Simple tissue tumours are not common in the ^r. ^efoUow- ing have been observed as primary growths. (1)1^ Fibroma • (31 Angioma, or cavernous tumour; (4) Lymphoma. (1) and (2) are extremely rare, and of no practical importan . 3 Cavernous tumours of small size are not very though it would seem less common m this country than a^ many In the ordinary form a bluish patch is seen on the surta of the liver, which when cut into is found to represent a cavernous or spongy structure of intercommunicating. spaces ?“upyrng £ office of liver tissue, and usually containing liquid hlood but sometimes firm thrombi.. They may also occur at a ffis an e thl most remarkable instances on record, m wffich large ag numerous cavernous tumours, containing coagulated blood, were found scattered through the liver. tissue was found The system of sinuses composing the cavemo ■ , to stand m immediate relation trifl. ‘V SlobeOpened main divisions of the portal vein supplying the left lobe oper Sto two of the largest cavernous tumours by channels astag^ a goose-quill, and nearly all the largei bianc 1 other1 hand, the were found to be similarly connected. On the otner n , Dr Andrew describes in “ Trans. Patb.Soc” vol-ii. P- IBS, a case of acute atrophy hi which the liver had an orange-red or red colour.