156 CYSTOID TtniOTTBS. The contents of these cysts are of very different appearance, and the names of meliceris, hygroma, atheroma, gummy twmour, have been given to express a honey-like, watery, pultaceous, or jelly- like condition of the retained secretion. Examined microscopically, epithelial scales, free fatty matter, tablets of cholesterine, crystals of triple phosphate, and small hairs in various proportions, the epithelium, however, usually predominating, are found to consti- tute the contents of these cysts. The cyst itself appears as a thin, fibrous layer, lined on its inner side with, epithelium. "W e have seen one case in which the epithelium in several tumours had accumulated in a very thick layer on the interior of the true cyst, giving rise to the appearance of a thick-walled cavity with con- tained matters of the ordinary kind; microscopic examination, however, showed that there was no real thickening of the cyst itself. The scaly particles of epithelium seem to fill themselves occasionally with a pellucid refracting matter, apparently of oily nature; they are mingled in some cases with granular globules, not unlike pus corpuscles, or if inflammation has occurred, wiui pus itself. This, at least, is the case with comedones, which are of similar nature. (2) Mucous encysted tumours: these are essentially similar to the preceding, and are formed by obstruction of the duct of a mucous follicle, or small conglomerate gland, lhey con- tain usually a glutinous mucous fluid. They occur m the bps, the mouth, in the cervix uteri, the Meibomian glands, and in the vagina. * Ranula is an exactly analogous affection of the duct oi the sublingual gland. (3) Some of the renal and mammary and probably most of the hepatic cysts are produced m the same way, bv local obliteration of the duct canals at two points, and disten- sion of the intermediate portion. (4) Single cysts m the ovary are perhaps formed by dropsical distension of the Graafian vesicles; this may also be the origin of others which are after- wards compound. (5) Cysts in the thyroid gland are, no doubt, often formed by simple expansion of the normal vesicles, (b) Certain bursae (not of new formation) become distended by a per- sistent increase of their secretion, and constitute cystic tumours. Mr. Simon states that the contents of these, instead of being hum, are occasionally solid, the albuminous secretion having been re- placed by a fibre-forming (probably fibrinous) blastema. P Under the second head we notice—(1) Simple serous cysts, and svnovial bursae. These arise in some cases evidently from the effect of pressure or friction, in others without any such( cause. In the case of synovial bursae we observe that a kind ot cP^e sation takes place in the areolar tissue of the part, out the limits of the commencing bursae; within this theXid are gradually absorbed, while a secretion at the sain • Wc found the contents of an encysted tumour of the j'e°un™f nudUtiidcs'of White Cooper, to consist of a colourless, tiunsluc^t mjdter, cJLmlnted in sonic delicate granulous g-lobules, imbedded m a clear fluid, winch £ & measure by acetic acid. i i i