540 ULCERATION OF THE MOUTH. fatal affection. It is very seldom idiopathic, almost always occur- ring consecutively to measles or some other disease. Messrs- Iiilliet and Barthez found, out of twenty-nine cases, nineteen aged from two to five years, and ten aged from six to twelve. We again quote Dr. West’s description, which pictures very well the only case which we have witnessed ourselves. There is at first scarce any suffer- ing, and some unusual foetor of the breath, some profuse secretion of offensive saliva, and swelling of the cheek, are the first circum- stances which are observed. The characters of the swelling of the cheek are almost pathognomonic. It is not a mere puffiness, but is tense, red, and shining—looking “ as if its surface had been be- smeared with oil, and in the centre of the swollen part there is generally a spot of a brighter red than that around. The cheek feels hard, and is often so unyielding, that the mouth cannot be opened wide enough to get a good view of its interior. The disease is almost always limited to one side, and generally to one cheek. Occasionally it begins in the lower lip, never m the upper, but it may extend to either. “ Whatever be the situation of the external swelling, there will generally be found within the mouth, at a point corresponding to the bright red central spot, a deep excavaieu ulcer, with irregular jagged edges, and a surface covered by a dar - brown, shreddy slough. The gums opposite to the ulcer are ot_a dark colour, covered with the putnlage from its surface, andm part destroyed, leaving the teeth loose, and the alveoli denucte . Sometimes, especially if the disease be further advanced, no smg e spot of ulceration is recognizable, but the whole inside of the chee^ is occupied by a dirty putrilage, in the midst of which large shreds of dead mucous membrane hang down. As the disease extends within the cheek, a similar process of destruction goes on upon the a-um and the loosened teeth drop out one by one. The saliva con- tinues to be secreted profusely, but shows by the changes which take place in its character the progress of the disease. At first, though remarkable for its foetor, it is otherwise unaltered, but afterwards loses its transparency, and receives from the putiefymg tissues, over which it passes, a dirty, greenish, or brownish colour, and at the same time acquires a still more repulsive odour. \\ hue the gangrene is thus going on inside the mouth, changes no less remarkable are taking place on the exterior of the face. The ness and swelling of the cheek extend, and the deep lerlcmto spot grows larger. A black point appears m its midst, at hrsUtis but a speck, but it increases rapidly, still retaining a circu at -it attains the bigness of a sixpence, a shilling, a half-crown, o „ larger size. A ring of intense redness now encircles it, tne to extent!, and the slough begins to serarate. Death often takes place before the detachment of the eschar is com nlete and it is fortunate when it does so, for sloughing usually commences in the parts left behind. The interior of the mouth is now exposed, its mucous membrane and the substance of y hang down in shreds from amidst a blackening mass, whicfi