HYDROCEPHALUS. 245 giving the whole the appearance of the leaf of an ice-plant ” (Wilks). These granulations are distinctly cellular growths, springing from the ependyma itself. In what seems to be a later stage, the new formations take the character of connective tissue, and distinct fibrous layers may be met with.* Thickening or chronic inflammation of the ependyma is so common in advanced life as hardly to be considered a disease. It usually accompanies some degree of atrophy of the brain, and is associated with ac- cumulation of clear fluid in the cavities. In younger persons it has been thought to be the cause of accumulation of fluid, and has therefore been set down among the causes of hydrocephalus, a condition which is so important as to deserve separate treatment. Hemorrhage into the ventricles is never found except as a conse- quence of haemorrhage into the brain itself. Tumours and new growths are not common, and generally arise from the choroid plexus. Fibrous tumours, fatty tumours, and enchondromata are recorded. Parasites. The cgstkercus celluloscr. has been found lying free in the cavity of the ventricles.! Sir William Jenner has detected sarcmce in the ventricular fluid in a case of cerebral tubercle HYDROCEPHALUS. The etymology of the term indicates the main feature that characterizes this morbid condition. It is truly a dropsy of the bram, and, like dropsies in other parts, is favoured by a relaxed and soft condition of the surrounding tissues. The anatomical peculiarities of the fcetal and infant head at once indicate why it should commence at those periods; while the mal-nutrition upon Which it is based, and the further impairment of the important oigan in which it occurs, are sufficient grounds for explaining its great fatality, and the infrequency of the children affected with it •i.ii \ iv,tig to reach manhood. Instances are, however, on record, o individuals in whom the parts accommodated themselves to the morbid effusion, and life was prolonged far beyond the period of childhood. The most celebrated case of this kind is that of James L-arcUnal,! who attained the ago of twenty-nine, though he had it .existen^ and character of the ependyma itself are still matters of disnute Whe4 H bc superfluous to give a few directions for demonstratingitepeBulStiS’ st sans* st ife-steSs gbcerme or otherwise. The method will not snppoprl by immersion in tlndrew :n^am^pitRXr xxf L °f ^ ^ C“<!’ * Ur. Bright’s “Medical Reports,” p. 431.