390 DISSECTING ANEURISM. set up, and establish definite limits, and thus lead to the formation of an aneurismal sac. It is manifest that this, as well as the aneurismal varix, of which we have already spoken, has no patho- logical relation to the disease of which we have been treating. DISSECTING ANEURISM. We sometimes meet with small ecchymoses under the lining membrane of the aorta in the dead body,, which indicate the com- mencement of this form of aneurism. A minute and sometimes imperceptible fissure in the inner coat allows of the permeation of a small quantity of blood, and the first step having occurred, a suc- cession of similar deposits may soon cause a greater accumulation, and necessarily a coincident separation of the coats. True dissecting aneurism is not common, and is hardly ever seen except on the aorta. It arises from rupture of the inner and middle coats, and the blood after forcing its way between the middle and outer coats, forms a sac, limited externally by the latter, around the artery itself. This generally bursts externally, but has been known in rare cases to open again into the artery at some point lower down, so as to form a sort of second channel. The structures called dissecting aneurisms in the brain* are some- what different ; their peculiarities depend upon the special cha- racters of the cerebral vessels. The outer coat or adventitia is hero somewhat loosely attached, and a space is left between it and the other coats, which, being supposed to be connected with the lymphatic system, has been called a lymphatic space, while the adventitia has been called a perivascular sheath, names which have led to some confusion. Haemorrhage, perhaps by “ diapedesis,” seems to take place very readily into this space in all kypersemic conditions of the brain, and a small clot is formed around the vessel, but as there is no reason to believe that fluid blood remains in the space, or that the mass enlarges after it is once formed, it is plainly something very different from an aneurism. The blood effused soon degenerates or becomes absorbed, and a few yellow granules may alone remain as evidence of the haemorrhage- The sheaths may doubtless become ruptured and produce more ex ten- give*haemorrhage, but this does not seem often to happen. When hiemorrhage has already taken place the shock and destruction of tissue may produce very numerous perivascular haemorrhages ot this kind. * Eirst described by Virchow and KCSlliker.