NEW GROWTHS OF THE PANCREAS AND SAXIVARY GLANDS. 651 t Gascoyen, “ Trans. Path. Soe.,” vol. xi. p. 2G7. the gland becomes atrophied; though it may ultimately involve the whole. More often it spreads from some adjacent part, i.e., from the duodenum, stomach, or lymphatic glands. No other form of tumour is known to originate in the pancreas. The retro- peritoneal glands near the head of the pancreas and the surround- ing connective tissue are occasionally the seat of a sarcomatous growth, which becoming closely united with the pancreas and compressing its ducts, has sometimes been described as a disease of that organ, and is functionally the same. The parotid gland is much more commonly the seat of new growth. One form of tumour very characteristic of this part is myxochondroma, a soft form of cartilaginous tumour, in which the cartilage is intermingled with soft mucous tissue like that of a myxoma, and sometimes with cellular masses which would be called sarcoma. Forster states that it is sometimes combined with cancer, and mentions a case in which such a tumour was truly malignant, and produced secondary growths in distant parts. We might naturally suppose that these tumours do not arise in the gland itself, but in an adjacent lymphatic or in the connective tissue, nevertheless, secreting gland-tissue is sometimes found imbedded in the tumour.* We have also seen a spindle-celled sarcoma; and an internal nsevus or angioma has been described from the same situation.t True glandular tumours or outgrowths of parotid tissue not un- rrequently occur. Cancer may commence in the gland itself, in the surrounding connective tissue, or in one of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. It forms sometimes very large masses, which may grow downwards to the clavicles, inwards to the vertebral column, or behind the oesophagus, and sometimes ulcerate through the skin. Scirrhus and encephaloid occur most frequently, but epithelioma has also been described. Cancer of the submaxillary or sublingual glands uPP®.al's always to be an extension from the neighbouring lym- fjahwry fistula are usually caused by the progress of ulceration, thus, a perforating ulcer of the stomach may make its way into the pancreatic duct, and a like event may occur to the duct of ■- teno, which is oftenest perforated by extension of ulceration from the mouth. Dilatations of the ducts are produced in consequence of obstruc- tion ol their outlets, while the secretion accumulates and distends the canal. The obstruction may depend on an external tumour or a mucous plug, or on a calcareous concretion. Sometimes the uilatation occurs at several separate points; sometimes it forms tusitorm “or closely-set expansions, partially separated from one another by valvular folds formed by the coats of the duct.” Dila- • For cases with figures see Amott, “Trans. Path. 8oc„” vol xx n S. Jones, Ibid., vol. xxiii. p. 263. - P and