MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 164 notic tumours. Those to which this name is sometimes given will be described under the head of melanotic cancer, or melanotic sarcoma. Both may have malignant properties, but the former is a comparatively rare form of growth. MALIGNANT TUMOURS. In attempting to give a sketch of cancerous or malignant tumours, we think the best plan will be to take a typical specimen, which presents all the characters of the genus strongly developed, and to point out what these characters are. We shall afterwards notice the several species, and endeavour to show how the distinguishing features gradually become effaced, until the formation, as often happens, is, or appears, almost identical with those of a benignant nature. A tumour, of the species called encephaloid, is certainly the TmpaSei'ypa of cancer. It is of rapid growth, often attaining m a short time a very large size. Such a tumour is seldom solitary, but coexists with other similar ones in the same and m different organs. If extirpated it is sure to return, and probably diffuse itself more widely than before. It poisons the lymphatic current passing from it, and induces growths of like nature in the glands which that current traverses. It affects the general system with a peculiar cachexia, marked by languor, emaciation, debility, and a sallow complexion. It is very apt to infiltrate adjacent textures with its own substance, and, by absorbing their nourishment tor itself, to occasion their atrophy; and, lastly, it tends, when exposed, to break down by a kind of decay, and to pour out pro- fuse, exhausting discharges of serous, samous or bloody fluid. Such is cancer in its most malignant form. Of the above-men- tioned characters, those which seem to us most nearly paftiogno- monic, are the tendency to infiltrate adjoining parts, to affect the glands traversed by the issuing lymph current, to reproduce similar growths in distant parts, and to return after removal, it these four characters are decidedly exhibited by any tumour there can be scarce any doubt of its malignant nature. It is to be remarked that all these characteristics are dynamic, and no, structural. They result from the invisible qualities of the new formation, its mode of vegetation, dissemination, and reproduction, not from any peculiarity of form or arrangement of ^ ^tic Whatever these might be, a tumour, which behaved as we have just described, would proclaim its malignant nature. Experience has shown that these characters may be several kinds of growth, which differ very considerablj in their general appearance and in their minute anatom} , so . of structure is by any means peculiar to or charactei is n JP* , tumours. There are, however, some structures which ^me almost certain to possess malignant properties, and others w . to do so: while in some forms of tumour (as the simple histioid