GRANULATIONS. 106 inflammation already described are “effete,” andserving no purpose in the organism are cast out of it; but inflammation also gives rise to a new growth which plays an important part in repair and healing of injuries, though itself transitory, and becoming always changed into something more highly organized. This is granula- tion tissue, which may be defined as a new growth proceeding from a wounded tissue, or from some part exposed by ulceration, and growing either on the external surface or within a cavity. The so-called granulations are characterized by a red colour, granular surface, and soft texture, and are very easily wounded. They are out-growths of the normal tissues, being continuous with them at the margin or base ; while their connective tissue stroma and their blood-vessels are developments of the corresponding normal struc- tures, and their cells formed by proliferation from normal cells. Granulations consist of blood-vessels, connective tissue, spindle- shaped or fibro-plastic cells, and round indifferent or embryonic cells. The characteristic cells are those called embryonic, since they resemble those of which immature organs in the embryo are composed. They are roundish, pretty uniform in size, from -j-gVo to i.- inch, granular, and resemble generally those white blood cells5 which have a single nucleus. They differ from pus-cells chiefly in the nucleus. These cells are not absolutely in contact, but arranged with some intercellular substance, and a distinct stroma, so that the structure resembles that of a lymphatic gland, or what is called adenoid. There are also transitional forms’ between these and the spindle-shaped cells, which compose an immature connective tissue. There are also apparently tianai- tional forms between the embryonic and epithelial cells, so that the embryonic tissue is of an indefinite type, which may be developed into other more special tissues. On the other hand, the granulation cells are sometimes not individually to be distinguished from pus-cells; and on the surface of ordinary granulations it appears as if many cells of the solid mass were constantly undergoing a retrograde change, and becoming con- verted into detached pus-cells. Granulations are nchly supplied with blood-vessels, the walls of which are formed of spindle-shaped fibro-plastic cells (see Fig. 13), and are easily ruptured which explains the well-known readiness of granulating surfaces to bleed. As the granulations grow, a new formation of vessels constantly takes place, apparently by out-growths from those already formed. The surface is always covered, more or less, with a greyish film of pus. This appears to be more or less copious as the growth tends rather to degenerative or to formative changes, the indifferent embryonic cells being capable of degradation in o pus ce s elevation into connective tissue elements. It is not certain th. t epithelial elements are ever formed from granulation tissue such as that here described; they being, as some think, never formed but from pre-existing epithelium. It is also possible that the pu»- cells occurring on the surface of granulations may have merely