CHAPTER XIII. THE ARACHNOID AND- PIA MATER OF THE SPINAL CORD. Although the anatomical connection between these membranes ! is somewhat different from that obtaining between the cerebral i meninges, it does not appear that their relation in disease differs i materially from what we have found to prevail in that localitv ' we shall, therefore, consider them together. The absence of valves in the spinal veins and their peculiar 1 distribution, cause the circulation of the spinal cord to be very ^ l?£o’sh< and therefore prone to congestion and stagnation : to thrs. Ollivier attributes the great number of dilatations which we I fandm the different points of its extent, in individuals advanced i in years. He adds, that he has generally remarked that the quantity of serum m the vertebral canal was so much the larger J according as there was a greater congestion in the veins of "the -spine, and of the membraneous coverings of the cord; thus the -slowness and difficulty of the course of the venous blood may be ihere the causes-of a dropsy, which is independent of inflammation ■of the spinal membranes. These effusions of serum will, accord- ing to the exciting causes, be of a chronic or acute character • in mlancy, irritation frequently gives rise to a more rapid accumula- -nlvv.° old a£e a slow effusion is frequently met with, which Rokitansky attributes, in part at least, to a secondary congestion, arising from atrophy of the medulla and the roots of ithe nerves. The fluid exhaled under such circumstances will loiiow the law of gravitation, and accumulate at the lower end of the spinal cord, and thus assist in exciting and perpetuating nara- Ihe^ic symptoms of which we may be unable to detect a sufficientlv satisfactory reason after death. y Hemorrhage. The occurrence of sanguineous apoplexv of the meninges, in any form is not frequent. Dr. Abercrombie gives t single instance, which occurred under his own observation in WL agC(! HTn’ ln, whom’ aftGr an illness of three days leath ensued after violent convulsions. A long and verv fill’ Joagulum of blood was found, external to the °cord, ;he whole length of the cervical portion. An interesting case