783 TUMOUES OF THE BEEAST. lar structures are involved, the superficial abscess betwon the skin and the gland, and the post-mammary abscess, in which the suppuration has its seat in the cellular tissue behind the breast, pushing the organ forward in a remarkable manner, and after a long time discharging either through the breast or, oftener, by its side. The chronic induration, either following an abscess or with little tendency to suppurate, is often very difficult to distinguish from a new growth in the breast. Hypertrophy.—-True hypertrophy sometimes attains a veiy con- siderable size in unmarried females, and appears to be an indica- tion of a generally precocious tendency. Commonly both breasts are affected; but occasionally one is inordinately developed. A temporary enlargement of the gland very commonly accompanies menstruation; it may occur periodically, even long after the cessation of this function, as in an old lady of eighty-five, who was under our care, and who was subject to this phenomenon regularly every month. A permanently hypertrophic state is in- duced by lactation, the period which directly or indirectly gives rise to many of those morbid conditions to which the gland is liable. During lactation, large accumulations of milk fre- quently distend the entire system of ducts, or a single portion ; in the latter case, a fluctuating tumour may result, which will scarcely disappear without surgical interference. It is stated, that as much as ten pints of milk have been evacuated from a swelling of this description. It appears to be generally owing to an atonic state of the mammary ducts, similar to the condition of the efferent channels in the nipple, causing a non-retention of the secretion. The lactiferous tubes are occasionally found to contain sebaceous-looking matter, phosphatic concretions, and other pro- ducts, which have been attributed to the effects of chronic inflam- mation (College of Surgeons, Nos. 2,743 ; 2,744 ; 2,747 ; 2,748); but unless there is a coincident change in the coats of the ducts, it is probable that these matters are the residue of an effusion of milk which has been long retained, and in which a partial absorption has taken place. TUMOUES OF THE BEEAST. Notwithstanding the attention which has been specially given to tumours of the breast, their classification is still involved in much confusion. We believe the following to be the most clearly defined species of tumours:—(1) Lobular hypertrophy; (2) Ade- noma, or cylinder-celled epithelioma; (3) Cysto-sarcoma; (4) Cancer including medullary, scirrhus, and colloid; (5) Sarcoma; and (6) Simple tumours. Lobular Hypertrophy.—By this is meant partial hypertrophy of the glandular structure, or the partial formation of a tumour Although tumours of this description ordinarily remain in con-