DEGENERATIONS OF TIIE LIVER. G2S vital power of the hepatic cells is much lowered. It may, there- fore, occur: (1.) When an animal is largely fed on food containing much fat. The fatty livers of the Strasburg geese are produced in this way. (2.) "When, in the course of an exhausting disease, rapid emaciation takes place, and causes the blood to become loaded with oil from the waste of the adipose tissue. (3.) When the type of respiration is low, and the blood necessarily, therefore, contains much hydro-carbonaceous matter. In the first and third classes there may he simply accumulation of a large quantity of oil in the tissue of the liver; in the second there is generally, also, more or less degeneration of the hepatic structure. We have verified this by positive observation, as respects the first and second classes. Animals fed for some time with fatty food have their livers loaded with oil, but the cells are not at all destroyed; they contain much oil, and much also is deposited between them. W e have found the liver, in persons dying in a condition of extreme emaciation from other diseases besides pulmonary phthisis, in a complete state of fatty degeneration; and this has occurred so often, that we should expect to find it in most cases ot great o-eneral wasting. It is certainly the emaciation of consumptive disease that produces fatty transformation of the liver, and not the mere destruction of the oxygenating apparatus. This statement is strongly confirmed by the analysis of about a hundred cases, m which we examined, microscopically, the condition of the liver. Among them there were eighteen in whom the liver was thoroughly fatty, or nearly so ; of them, only one died of pulmonary phthisis, four others of scrofulous affections, the remainder of diseases having no connection with any form of phthisis: ten cas®3 0 phthisis occurring in the same list presented either no fatty dege- neration, or an imperfect and partial change only. A fatty state of the liver is sometimes coincident with a similar condition oi the kidneys, but not by any means invariably. _ In well-fed persons living in towns, some degree of fatty change in the liver seems to he the rule. It is also a consequence of excessive drinking; espe- cially, it is said, of drinking dilute forms of alcohol, as beer, but we have also seen it in spirit drinkers. (2.) Granular or Parenchymatous Degeneration.—In many acu febrile diseases, some swelling of the liver is noticed during lne. When this is the case, we find the liver enlarged, either pale or vas- cular and opaque, somewhat resembling a fatty liver ; so much so, that it may sometimes be a matter of doubt whether there is a fatty change, or an acute degeneration. The substance is, how- ever, more flabby than in the fatty liver, the colour le^ ... * and, in advanced cases, the lobular structure much ess v • -Microscopical examination shows the cells punctated e . -refracting granules, which in early stages are soluble m acetic acid or alkalies, and are probably albuminous mcom^sition. The cells are at the same time swollen. This c»?difaon ^ called by Virchow cloudy swelling. In a moie advance ■ ■ e