PROLAPSUS ANI. 582 ■well as in the case of intus-susceptions taking place during the agony. Diarrhoea is the most frequent predisposing cause; but, in some cases, a tumour growing into the intestinal cavity occa- sions invagination. Increase of the invagination always takes place by more and more of the intestine becoming inverted, so that the upper border of the middle layer is continually shifted lower down! The consequence of invagination is, as may be expected, peritonitis and its results. Inflammatory congestion is set up, not at first, in consequence of annular constriction of the volvulus, but from compression of the vessels; especially the veins of the portion of mesentery which is dragged down by the advancing and inverted, layers This obstruction to the circulation, Bokitansky says, gives rise to violent inflammation, with “plastic effusion on the contiguous serous surfaces of the entering and receding; (inverted) tube The inverted portion is invariably the one that sutlers most - ” “and it is characteristic, that even when the inflamma- tion of the volvulus (or entering portion) runs high, its mucous membrane remains pale.” Even the sheath _ is not so much affected in smaller invaginations. The tumefaction resulting from the inflammatory congestion may cause strangulation ot the vol- vulus usually at the entrance, but, sometimes at other points, it death!does not result from the peritonitis, the ensuing gangrene, or the strangulation, recovery takes place with one ot the three following terminations to the morbid process(a) Complete adhesion having been formed between the two opposed serous surfaces of the sheath, and the inverted tube at the point of in- version, the whole contained volvulus mortifies and is thrown oh, and becomes discharged per anum. In a case referred 10 T Anclral, the portion of intestinal tube thus evacuated measured eighteen inches; and Hevm relates two cases, m one ot which twenty-three inches of the colon were thus parted with, and, in the other, twenty-eight inches of small intestine. An annular swell- ing, more or less interfering with the canal of the intestine, u found in the corpses of persons in whom this termination has occurred, besides adhesions of the serous surfaces in the Yicmitw (b) “ In rare cases, in which the incarceration has been developed at an unusual point, only a partial sloughing of the volvulus takes place ; and the portion which lies above the strangulation retained. Under these circumstances, the latter forms a comci plug with a narrow channel, and projects mto the canty o sheath surrounded by a thick fringe of mucous membrane, (cl Occasionally, after adhesion has taken place, the mfiammabo abates, and the volvulus is retained. The first mode of terming tion is the only one that produces a permanent recovery ,m the others there always remains a degree of chronic kypenem1 ’ ^ liability to exacerbation. No age is exempt from t of invaginations. Andral quotes from Monro a case ol a ry considerable one, in a child four months old. . • Prolapsus out is an affection very analogous to invagmat ,