CONGENITAL MALFORMATION OF THE HEART. 363 more or less completely developed. Such are the cases in which, with imperfect separation of the ventricles, the arterial or auriculo- ventricular apertures are constricted or obliterated, and the origins of the primary vessels, and especially of the aorta, are misplaced. (3) Oases in which development has gone on till a later period, so that the auricular and ventricular septa are completely formed, and the primary vessels possess their natural connections ; but in which disease either prevents the natural evolution of the organ after birth, or produces conditions which are the cause of more serious obstruction in after life. I.—MALFORMATIONS DEPENDENT ON EARLY ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. In these cases the heart may, it is said, consist of but a single t contractile cavity, but this has been observed only in im perfect 1 y ! formed foetuses. In infants which have survived for some days | after birth, a heart of two chambers has occasionally been found. : The common ventricle usually gives origin to a distinct aorta and ; pulmonary artery, but sometimes the former supplies the lungs by . a ductus arteriosus. The common auricle receives the vense cavm and pulmonary veins, but usually shows some indication of a i division; and is sometimes provided with one or two auricular appendages. In cases where development has advanced somewhat f farther, three chambers are found, viz., two more or less distinct - auncles, and one ventricle. The two auricles receive the pulmonary . and systemic veins respectively, while the single Ventricle either - gives origin to a distinct aorta and pulmonary artery, or else the i latter. arises from the former by a ductus arteriosus. There is • sometimes a rudimentary ventricular septum. This kind of r malformation, though very rare, is of more frequent occurrence tthan the biloculate. It has been observed in individuals who :: have lived to the age of 11, 16, or even 24 years, though more - generally in infants who have survived their birth only a few days. II.—MALFORMATIONS DEPENDENT ON ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT AT A LATER PERIOD. In specimens classed under this head all four cavities are pre- sent, but there is some imperfection in one or both of the septa and usually some obstruction either in the aorta or pulmonary artery. Imperfection of the inter-ventricular septum, if only partial, usually occurs at the base, where, during foetal life the division of the cavities is last effected, and here more especially in a triangular area, where the ventricular septum is on tho loft side uncovered by muscular substance, and which is known as the undefended space. There may, however, be deficiencies in other ^ ventneuiar septum. These defects may coexist with imperfect separation of the auncles, but such is, according to Dr