739 ABN OEM AL CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS. laminated, or compact structure. Lassaigne’s analysis gives the following as their composition : basic-phosphate of lime 84-5, car- bonate of lime 05, animal matter 15. The smaller calculi often escape into the bladder through the dilated prostatic ducts; if they remain there they excite irritation of the mucous membrane, and deposition of phosphates upon their own surface. A coating of lithic acid has sometimes been formed on a large calculus remain- ing in the prostatic portion of the urethra. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS. The penis is very imperfectly developed in some cases of normal condition of the other sexual organs, as well as when they are themselves imperfect. We have seen it extremely short and fissured in its whole upper surface in a case of eversio vesic.ce. When it is very small, fissured below, and destitute of prepuce, and when at tie same time the testes remain in the abdomen, and the scrotum is cleft, there results a considerable resemblance to the female con- formation , or, if the penis is less atrophied, a pseudo-hermajihro- ditism. Atrophy of the penis, accompanied by obliteration of the cavernous textures, occurs, according to Rokitansky, together with atrophy of the testicles. The penis is subject, like the rest of the body, to inflammation, which, affecting various parts, gives rise to special symptoms, and receives special names. Thus, “ chordee,” a peculiar and painful twist of the erected organ, may result from inflammatory thicken- mgin the corpora cavernosa or spongiosum, or from the formation of a gummy tumour in the corpora cavernosa of a syphilitic. Balanitis, inflammation of the mucous membrane of the glans ; and posthitis, inflammation of the inner surface of the prepuce, with resulting ulceration and even gangrene in neglected cases, are amongst the accompaniments of venereal disease. The vesicles of herpes sometimes form on the prepuce, on its mucous or cutaneous laminae. Venereal Sores.— More grave by far than these lesions, how- ever, are the special ulcerations met with as results of impure sexual intercourse. These ulcers, or chancres, as they are commonly termed, are found on the glans, in the sulcus behind the glans, on either surface of the prepuce, and even within the urethra—although probably seldom more than a few lines irom the urethral orifice. They are of two kinds—(1) The hard, or Hunterian chancre, the initial manifestation of the con- stitutional disease of syphilis; and (2) The more common soft non-infecting venereal sore; and to either of these, but especially tae latter, may be added, in certain depressed conditions of the system, an irregular sloughing action converting the indolent sore into a rapidly-extending, foul ulcer, then styled phagedenic Ihe initial manifestation of syphilis, according to Mr. Berkeley