DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 806 opinion, and believes that be can demonstrate tbe existence of tbe synovial membrane in tbe adult, by detaching an exceedingly delicate layer from tbe cartilage, which, he states, does not contain any of the cartilage cells. This, we think, is a film of the cartilage itself, only so thin that it cannot include the cells. The other point we wish to notice is the existence of a set of remarkable vascular processes, the synovial fringes, covered by a delicate epithelium, upon the free projecting margin of those synovial folds which advance into the cavities of joints. Mr. Bainey, by his discovery of these, has confirmed the anticipation of Clopton Havers, that those synovial folds fulfil, in some measure, the function of glands, being particularly concerned in the formation of the synovia. It is, we are convinced, from these vascular pro- cesses that blood-vessels first enter the false membrane formed by exuded lymph. Inflammation of the Joints.—Though this is generally called synovitis, it must be remembered that the cartilages are also concerned. The results of acute synovitis are the following. More or less injection of the vessels, which in one instance, related by Sir. B. Brodie, were so distended with blood that “throughout the whole of its internal surface, except where it covered the cartilages, the synovial membrane was of a dark red colour, like the conjunctiva in acute ophthalmia.” Effusion of serous fluid, which may be so great as to lead one to suppose that the sac is filled with solid matter. Effusion of lymph, forming flakes all over the synovial surface, and not upon the cartilages. In severe cases suppuration may occur. If the disease advance unchecked, ulceration of the cartilages is very prone to occur; villous or fringed processes are then formed, which are in contact with the ulcerating part of the cartilage, and probably both promote the destructive process, and aid in removing, by absorption, the disintegrating tissue. We shall return to this point again under the head of ulceration of cartilage. Under judicious treatment, the whole of the fluid will be reabsorbed, and the joint return to a perfectly healthy state. If, however, much solid exudation is present, its absorption will be more difficult, and some amount of swelling and stiffness of the part will still remain. Acute llheumatism.—Though this is perhaps the commonest disease affecting the joints, little is known of its morbid anatomy. In the rare opportunities which occur of examining the joint, it often happens that there is no marked alteration visible to the naked eye beyond slight vascularity. MM. Cornil and Banvier, however, describe an inflammation of the synovial surface re- sembling the inflammations of serous surfaces; and marked by the production of large compound cells with several nuclei, corpuscles like those of pus, and sometimes a fibrinous reticulum. They also state that there are constant proliferative changes in the cartilage cells, of the kind hereafter described, resulting in the production