INFLAMMATION. 88 but similar phenomena havo lately been observed as the conse- quence of artificial irritation of cartilage.* The favourite object of investigation has been, however, the cornea, both on account of the simplicity of its structure and the clearness with which its elements can be brought into view by certain re-agents. By inducing inflammation with nitrate of silver, then excising the cornea, and treating it with solutions of gold, many of the con- nective tissue corpuscles are seen to have undergone changes indicative of increased vitality and proliferation; though there are always some which exhibit no change. In those which are altered the rays or processes (of the stellate corpuscles) show signs of contractility; then they become thicker and shorter, till they become converted into clumps of irregular shape; some merely granular, others containing newly-formed nuclei. They also show amoeboid movements, the nuclei changing their relative position, as granules do in the body of an amoeba. These changes can only be clearly seen within the first twenty-four hours after the application of the stimulus; as after this the cornea becomes turbid with a vast number of leucocytes, of which most (or, according to Cohnheim, all) are emigrants from the blood- vessels. Dr. Burdon Sanderson, from whom the above account is taken, thinks “ it cannot be doubted that the little spheroids contained in the amoeba-like masses are young pus corpuscles; and that even in the cornea suppuration must be regarded as, at all events, in part, a process of germination.” These conclu- sions, first announced by Becklinghausen, before the publication of Cohnheim’s researches, are denied by the latter pathologist, who endeavoured, by injecting finely divided pigment into the veins, to mark the blood corpuscles, and thus distinguish them when emigrated, from the elements of the tissues. Leucocytes thus coloured were found in the inflamed cornea, and thus plainly proclaimed their origin from the blood. But according to other observers all the leucocytes seen are not thus coloured. The same difference of opinion exists with respect to -another object studied in the living state, namely, the frog’s tongue, in which the observations of Cohnheim and Strieker are precisely contradictory. The same is true of the omentum, with respect to which Cohnheim asserts that the inflammatory cells are merely superimposed upon the unchanged elements of the tissue, whhe most other observers have traced the formation of pus, or in- flammatory cells, from the serous epithelium, or from the con- nective tissue nuclei. The annexed figure shows the actual appearance of an inflamed omentum, and exhibits the germination of the endothelial elements. It should, however, be said that such germinative changes are, according to the editor s observations, of normal occurrence in the omentum, and only appear to be more abundant and active in inflammation or other liyperamic con- • Kremiansky, “Wiener Medizinische Woclicnschrift ”: 1S6S. Cornil et Ranvier, “ Manuel d’Histolog-ie Patliologique,” p. 72. Paris, 1869.