484 LOBULAR OR CATARRHAL PNEUMONIA. with a single terminal bronchial tube are simultaneously affected. The shape of a terminal bronchial tube, with its groups of air cells, is roughly like a bunch of grapes, or more closely like a racemose gland. This form is shown when a lung is only imperfectly ex- , panded, either by incomplete respiration or by artificial inflation. It is also seen in artificial casts of the internal cavities, and is equally marked out by the disease we are now considering. When we see this typical arrangement of morbid change in a lung, we know that the disease is one which owes its distribution to the arrangement of the air passages, not to that of the blood or lymphatic vessels. It is, in fact, broncho-pneumonia; and this arrangement belongs both to the broncho-pneumonia we are now considering, and to the more serious form of it which constitutes one of the varieties of phthisis. In more advanced stages of either disease, when the small masses become confluent, this appearance is ; quite lost. It often happens that either the part of the lung in which these masses occur, or else a closely contiguous portion, is in a state of collapse. This condition is, as we have said often, a consequence of obstruction of the air tubes by bronchitis ; and such collapsed. portions of lung appear very prone to pass into a catarrhal inflam- mation, so that transitional stages may be found between the two. The process of consolidation, though at first affecting single lobules ■: or small portions, may soon spread over a large part or the whole ■ of a lobe. The consolidated portions are pale and often of a pinkish colour, entirely airless and singularly dry, without showing : precisely the granular appearance of lobar pneumonia. As the disease extends these portions become intermingled with healthy lung tissue in such a way as to produce a mottled or marbled. condition. When the consolidation spreads over a whole lobe or over both lobes, it may be difficult to distinguish from ordinary fibrinous- lobar pneumonia, unless some portions remain in a less advanced I condition. . I, In general, as we have stated, inflammation of the bronchi precedes this form of pneumonia, and the signs of this will accord- - mgly be found along with those of alveolar inflammation. But it' may happen that the bronchitis has passed away at the time of death, or even (according to Bindfleisch) it may be absent from the first. . Histology of Catarrhal Pneumonia.—The inflammatory process^ in the air cells which characterizes this disease is not only propagated from the mucous surface of the bronchial tubes, bin also resembles it in character. Hence we do not find the florin- i ous masses entangling corpuscles which occupy the air space? in fibrinous or croupous pneumonia, but cells which are believed! to be the result of a catarrhal inflammation of the alveolar epithelium, and have, in early stages, a more or less epithelia cnaractcr. This character is, indeed, not recognizable in later