359 DISEASES OF THE VALVES OF THE HEAET. Fio. 87. Combined Lesions.—The lesions of the valves hitherto spoken of may be variously complicated with one another, or with hetero- logous growths. Pathological re- cords contain instances of a great variety of changes of form, the r result of morbid processes or acci- dent. Thus the individual flap of the semilunar valve may he re- ■ verted or inverted, the valves of '.the aorta may become detached at their bases, and thus lose the rfulcrum by which they resist the iiimpetus of the blood; or the ten- .dinous cords of the mitral may ■induce a deficiency of the valve by l. ' ' a Aortic valves of a child aged four years; they are opaque and thickened, and their free margin curled backward toward the artery. Two of the valves are closely united by their adjacent margins. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum. 11th Series, 52.) Fio. 88 a shortening and thickening, idesion which Hope considers as constituting one of the worst va- ririeties of diseases of the valves. Aneurism of the Valves.—A con- idition of the valves remains to be /•pointed out, which was first de- monstrated by Dr. Thurnam ; * it consists in a saccular dilatation, which he attributes to a gradual Uhstension, and hence terms aneurism of the valves. It is met with in the aortic and tricuspid, hut most commonly in the mitral, valves. Dr. Peacockf has also recorded a similar affection of the valve of the foramen ovale. We find that the dilatation may exist without any lesion of continuity in the tissue; the endocardial lining being traceable throughout the pouch. This in the case of the mitral valve projects into the left auricle, and is often filled with a clot of blood. This form would correspond with what is termed true aneurism of the arteries. A second variety is that resulting from inflammation of the valves, by which a solution of continuity is effected in the lin- -p,. , , , , . inS membrane of one surface of .blood penetrates by this opening between the two layers of + ‘‘Pntu"Ci°"(^ w?' T™'I1®lct'onH'” vo1- xix- P- 1.62, voL xxi. p. 187, vol. xxiii p 328 rt deL h?KeportH; 185°-51' P- *>• Several instances of vklvular aneurkm re detailed in the same volume, pp. 72, 77, and 78. aneurism Aneurism of the mitral valve; a pouch >rojc< ting into the cavity of the left uUncle, about three-quarters of an inch J5ffh, and half an inch wide. It has ■JUrst by an irregular rent on one side. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, 12th Series, 62.) he flap.