VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION'. 89 ditions. Another possible source of new elements should be borne . in mind, namely, the multiplication of leucocytes after they have t escaped from the ves- .-sels. That this is pos- Fig. 8. - si bio is shown by the (observation of Klein, ’ who was fortunate (enough to see a leuco- icyte divide on the stage (of the microscope ; and ] Recklinghausen, some (years ago, concluded tfrom observations made con an excised cornea (maintained in a living sstate, that new cells (were produced by the (multiplication of the i unfixed corpuscles of tthe cornea or free leu- ccocytes. It is clear that the (evidence is strongly in (favour of the occurrence of changes in the tis- fssues, denoted by in- i' crease and proliferation, but it may be still a question whether these changes are a con- ■ sequence of the nutritive stimulus given by hypersemia and exudation, or are themselves the original starting point of the inflammation, and the cause of the increased flow of blood and exudation of serum. The special forms and consequences of in- flammatory new growth will be considered afterwards. Fenestrated portion of the human omentum in acute peritonitis, caused by ruptured intestine. (From a preparation by the editor.) a a a, Groups of nuclei, or young cells, produced by prolifera'ion. 6, Large mother-cell, or endothelial plate, containing many mi-lei. c c c, Free corpuscles, or young cells, entangled in threads of fibrin. These may be either new elements produced by germination, or emigrants from the blood-vessels. VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. These depend partly on differences inherent in the subject, partly on different exciting causes. What is called Sthenic inflam- mation is that which occurs in a healthy person, from exposure to cold, or the application of some irritant which does not contami- nate and depress the general system. The symptoms, if the inflammation is extensive, run high, the febrile excitement is con- I i sidorable, the pulse of good force, but moderate frequency, and depressant remedies are borne well. The exudations contain much ; plastic matter, and pus, if formed, is of the kind termed laudable. .Asthenic inflammation occurs in persons originally weakly or i rendered so by tho action of the exciting cause, as in the inflam- mations of influenza j the pulse, though frequent, has no strength,