PULMONARY HAEMORRHAGE. 471 as splenization and brown induration, they are not always clearly distinguished. In early stages we find the lungs bulky and heavy, the substance deep red from vascular fulness, dense, containing little air, and more or less indurated, tough and difficult to tear. In this condi- tion the term splenization has especially been applied; * but this word has been used in so many senses that it is perhaps better avoided. In the later stages of cardiac congestion of the lung, the induration and toughness notably increase; the colour is rather rusty brown, or more rarely slaty, as may be seen when the blood in the vessels is washed away. Much brown or dirty serum may often be squeezed out. J This is the condition described by the German pathologists as brown induration. The histology of this condition is very interesting. On making a thm section from a hardened specimen, it is at once obvious that the air cells are unusually small in diameter. This diminution mignt naturally be ascribed to thickening or hypertrophy of the walls, but (as admirably shown by Rindfleisch)it really depends upon the projection into the cavity of the immensely distended pulmo- nary capillaries. At the same time the air vesicles contain numerous catarrhal cells, some epithelial in shape, but most resembling leucocytes or mucus corpuscles. All these are very highly charged with pigment, and the same is found in considerable quantity in the alveolar walls. It is impossible to deny, at least in the later stages the simultaneous occurrence of fibrous hypertrophy, and it as lately been shown that there is an increase in the number of smooth muscle fibres. These anatomical changes suggest at once two factors in the dyspnoea of cardiac disease. In the first place the air cells being diminished in size, the respiratory surface is a so (hmimshed; and, m the second place, the capillaries will be Mled rather with arterial than with venous blood; the former being IS sulted for the functions of the lung, as the latter for the nourishment of the tissues. PULMONARY HAEMORRHAGE. .Diffuse hemorrhage into the parenchyma of the lung may it is probable, sometimes occur simply in consequence of extreme as.m. the bypcraemia following on heart disease. zation Tl a fndltl0n °V?tense’ almost black spleni- ^atmn, the additional redness cuused by a little hemorrhage will Mrrk duy dlstl,1Sulsbable. More commonly distinct masses of ktuiorrhage are seen, which will be presently described. Bleeding tiasn, -largsCr V0SSC1, sufficient ,to ca^e laceration of the lun~ tissue, is not very common, and the conditions producing it, except • Wilks : “Lectures on Pathological Anatomy,” 1859, p. 223.