470 1'ULMONAIIY CONGESTION. uncoagulated is free to obey the laws of gravitation. In a medico- legal point of view, congestion of the lungs may become a question of life and death; thus, in the trial of Mr. Kirwan, in Dublin, the conclusion that his wife’s death was due to violence, which has since been shown to be erroneous by the highest authority in medical jurisprudence in this country, Dr. Taylor,* was based mainly upon the fact of the lungs being congested posteriorly. This was the main fact upon which the medical witness, Dr. Hat- chett, relied, in proof of death having been brought about by drowning; we know that it may be the result of post-mortem changes,”and, as Dr. Taylor observes, “ it is not of the least value as medical evidence of drowning, unless observed soon after death, and unless attended with other appearances, which, upon the as- sumption of death by drowning, or by some other form of asphyxia, ought always to accompany it.” It is doubtful whether there are any means of determining whether hypostatic congestion has occurred after death or within a few days of dissolution. We know that in full vigour the blood is not disobedient to the laws of gravitation, as we may easily ascertain by allowing our arm to hang down and then raising it into a vertical position, or by elevating our feet above our head; therefore it is not surprising that, in the recumbent position, as the powers of life fail, the blood should gravitate to the posterior por- tion of the lungs. If the congestion is confined to one lung, or to the anterior parts of the lung, we may7 safely7 attribute it to moibid processes; and if there are any other traces of inflammatory action, to which we shall advert further on, we may equally set down the congestion to a pathological cause. In the words of Forster, the post-mortem appearances can only- in such cases be rightly understood by a knowledge of the physical signs of disease detected during life. . Hypostatic congestion is closely allied to the disease which has been termed “pneumonie des agonisans,” by Laennec, and has been fully described by Mr. Erichsen t as the congestive pneumonia to which the majority of deaths following capital operations are due. It may also, if it exist long, be of course a cause of inflammation, and may thus pass into the hypostatic pneumonia, so frequent in adynamic diseases, such as enteric fever. , Chronic Pulmonary Congestion.—When any obstacle occurs tot e passage of blood through the left side of the heart, whether troni obstruction of the auriculo-ventricular orifice, incompetence ot e mitral valve, feebleness of contraction of the muscular substance, or more remotely, obstruction or regurgitation at the aortic vaves, in all these cases tho lungs will be chronically over full ot ) o and its capillaries exposed to undue pressure. The changes pro- duced in the lungs by these conditions when they become chronic are very important, but though they have received various names * “ Dublin Quarterly Journal,” Feb. 1853. + “ Medico*Chirurgical Trans.,” vol. xxvi. d. ™ .