422 CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, AND SCROFULOUS GLANDS. the same matter. According to him the tubercles are always formed in the follicles of the gland, and have nothing to do with the septa, or the lymph paths. The commencement of each tubercle is in a many-nucleated, myeloid, or “ giant '’ cell, which may he complex in form, with many branches, and containing even as many as fifty or sixty nuclei. This original myeloid cell takes its rise in a vein or some small blood vessel, and is evolved from structureless protoplasm. This last explanation he would extend to all tubercles. Retrogressive changes soon set in, the life of the tubercle being very short; and it either becomes simply necrotic or else undergoes a fibrous transformation. With respect to the character of the cells he agrees with Yirchow. Tubercle of the lymph glands is generally secondary to tuber- cular disease of the organs connected with the gland ; bnt this is not always the case, for those organs may have some disease unac- companied by the production of tubercle, viz., either degenerative and destructive (“ scrofulous ”), or simple inflammation. These must be called cases of primary tuberculosis of the gland, and may be compared to those cases of tubercle of the pleura following, non - tuhercular disease of the lung. . . Scliiippel contends that all caseous or scrofulous gland? are origi- nally tubercular, and that the caseous process is nothing but necrosis of tubercle. He thinks that in a large number of cases the tubercle in the glands is the primary tubercle, and that its formation is the result of local irritation combined with constitu- tional predisposition. Syphilitic Affections of Lymphatic Glands.—In syphilis the lym- phatic glands undergo a sort of chronic inflammation which has some resemblance to that called scrofulous. The glands enlarge, but not usually to any great extent; they become hard and more fibroid change than is seqn in the scrofulous process, while only partial caseation or yellow necrosis takes place. These changes begin in the glands which receive their lymph from parts affected with the primary syphilitic lesion; but secondary affec- tions may also excite similar changes in the glands, and when once commenced, the process may extend to distant glands. Acme inflammation and suppuration often occur in glands dependent on parts where there exists a suppurative or soft chancre, and are not in themselves syphilitic; hut the occurrence of suppurauve glands or buboes does not exclude syphilis. , Lardaceous Degeneration of Lymphatic Glands. This change occurs in the glands when other organs are similarly affected, but probably never alone, and not at all commonly. The appearances are similar to those seen in other parts affected with the same degeneration. Changes in the Glands from Enteric Fever.— In this disease the morbid changes in the intestines are accompanied by similar changes in the mesenteric glands. When we find in the )hu swelling and ulceration of the Peyer’s patches, the mesenteric glands