549 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PHARYNX. there exists an opening, formed perhaps by caries, into the pulp cavity, the inflammation affects onlya part of the pulp. This is intelligible, from the circumstance that the secreted matter has a : channel of exit, and does not diffuse itself over the rest of the pulp, and also because the irritation of the oral fluids and of the carious dentine is confined to the adjacent part of this structure. The inflammation, after having caused the destruction of the pulp, may extend to the dental periosteum and occasion the death of the fang; it may even extend further to the periosteum of the jaw, and propuce necrosis of the bone. The dental pulp may be re- moved by absorption after the cavity of the tooth is laid open by caries, or it may ulcerate or perish from gangrene. Or again, it may become the seat of a fungoid growth, not of cancerous nature, which is sometimes termed polypus. The dental periosteum may be inflamed acutely or chronically. When the former takes place it causes the periosteum to separate to a greater or less extent from the surface of the fang, leaving a cavity which is occupied by pus. The cavity becomes enlarged at the expense of the alveolus, and this chiefly at the apex of the flatter. Sometimes the pus makes its way into the mouth at the meek of the tooth, having detached the periosteum up to that point, but more commonly the abscess advances through an open- ing in the alveolus into the gum, whence it ultimately makes its way to the surface. In unhealthy states of system the disease may involve the bone adjacent, and cause necrosis to a consider- able extent; or it may creep on and affect the periosteum of con- tiguous teeth. The inflammation rarely arises spontaneously ; most often it is the sequel of inflammation of the pulp. In the .chronic form there is no tendency to the formation of abscess, but there may be a slight discharge of pus from the edge of the gum. f “ The tooth becomes loose, the alveolus absorbed, and the edge of t the gum inflamed. The gum gradually sinks with the absorption I of the alveolus, and the tooth drops out or is removed.” Some- ! times partial chronic inflammation occurs, causing “ the periosteum about the extremity of the tooth to become thickened and nodu- lated.” The alveoli are liable to necrosis from various causes as other bone is; they undergo absorption in old age naturally, and • sometimes prematurely in persons who have been subjected to long-continued salivation, or whose gums have been rendered un- 1 naturally vascular by other causes ; and lastly, they are sometimes the seat of exostosis, which gradually, as it increases, extrudes the tooth. III.—ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PHARYNX AND {ESOPHAGUS. Congenital Malformations.—This part of the alimentary cana may be congenitally absent, or may terminate in a csecal pouch,