29 SALINE INGREDIENTS. .good; he confessed to drinking freely, but was by no means ^generally inebriate. The microscopic appearance of milky serum, ias we have observed it, has depended on the presence of a diffused ifinely divided matter, much resembling the molecular base of the ■chyle. Sometimes, however, distinct oil drops are observed. The ^general result of Becquerel and Eodier’s very careful analysis of ‘the blood in various diseases, with regard to the variations in the quantity of oil, is that almost from the outset of every acute lidisease the amount is increased, and particularly that of the icholesterine. Diseases of the liver, Bright’s disease, and tuber- culosis have the same effect. SALINE INGREDIENTS. There remain for our consideration the various salts of the iblood, and the water which holds them in solution. The amount oof salts in the blood of man is somewhat greater than in the blood oof woman; that of the former contains, on an average, 8-8 per cent., that of the latter 8*1; in both sexes the variations compatible vwith health are considerable. The blood of adults contains more ?salts than that of children; arterial blood more than venous. The [prolonged use of aliments containing much common salt is said to cause an increase in the proportion of the latter, and of the other -salts generally. The following appear to be the principal saline combinations in the blood:—chloride of sodium and potassium, -sulphate of potash, carbonate and phosphate of soda. Of the ^alterations which the salts undergo in different diseases we have rmot much knowledge. In malignant cholera the excessive drain : tells most on the fluid part of the blood, and hence that remaining in the vessels is thick and tarlike; hence, also, the extraordinary, •.though temporary, effect of injecting saline solutions, which return ‘ to the blood the material effused from it, and revive all the functions that were well nigh extinct. Doubtless, if the intestinal discharges could be arrested, the effect would be permanent, but as it is their effect is soon exhausted. Yogel states that “the salts are increased in scurvy, and it is very probable that this change influences the condition of the fibrine, hindering its coagul- ability, and, perhaps, checking its formation ; that it affects°the blood corpuscles, by withdrawing their water, rendering them .granular, and collecting them in heaps ; and that it thus plays an • essential part in the disease itself.” However, his statement has t been contradicted rather than confirmed. In the cases of purpura • examined by Dr. Parkes, which have been alluded to, the quan- tity of salts seems to have been below the average. In acute ^exanthemata, in dysenteric affections, in endemic agues, Leh- mann mentions the proportion of the salts to be increased, as -ilso in Bright’s disease, in typhus, and in all kinds of dropsv xnd hydrsemia. In violent inflammation the salts are much