H/ES101UUIAGE. 262 tainirig four ounces of sanguineous fluid. When the effusion occurs in the cavity of the arachnoid, we have seen that cysts aho form, hut we do not meet with them in the cavity of the ventricles, though there is reason to suppose that the blood may be absorbed from their surface also. According to the degree of absorption, the clot changes its consistency and colour. The clot first assumes a deeper colour, and becomes of a chocolate hue, and from absorp- tion of the serum is rendered hard; the colouring matter is more and more absorbed, a light-coloured fibrinous mass is then seen much contracted from the original dimensions of the clot, and finally this too may disappear, leaving no remains of the ha-uior- rhagic effusion but the contracted empty cyst, the walls of which are frequently connected by fibrous threads. The cyst itself, m its turn, shrinks up, and finally nothing may remain but a cicatnx. The hmmatoid crystals first discovered by Sir Everard Home, and more recently described by Virchow, are occasionally found in apoplectic clots, together with orange-coloured granular matter. Virchow* states that the earliest period at which he has discovered them, was seventeen days after the injury ; their not occurnng in recent effusions has been urged as a positive proof regarding t e age of a clot. Changes produced in the Nervous Tissue.—It is manifest that no effusion can take place into the cerebral tissue without a certain amount of disruption of the nerve matter, portions of which may be generally traced within the fresh clot; the greater the previous cerebral softening the more we shall find the brain comminuted. The danger to life, as the recorded cases teach us, is m pro- portion to the cerebral disorganization, for the tax made upon the powers of the constitution to repair the injury done, is neces- sarily greater, the more inflammatory reaction is set up; for though the clot possesses in itself a tendency to form a cyst without inflammation, and thus aids in the process of reparation, this cannot suffice to repair the injury done to the cerebral tissue. After the absorption has come to a standstill the cyst or the cicatrix may be borne for years without exciting any new symp- toms, and thus, if the individual has suffered from a repetition of apoplectic attacks, we shall find one or more such residuary appearances in a state indicative of the period fiom y;hieh ''i? date. As we occasionally meet with a recent apoplectic effusion that has been effected near the surface of fte brain,t ^ fluctuation, we find, after the absorption of the flmd, a slight depression in the superincumbent nerve tissue, or a supplementary effusion of serum into the ventricles. * See an article on “ Blood Crystals,” by Dr. Sieveking, in the “ Britnh and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review,” Oct. 1853.