* “ Pathological Anatomy,” vol. ii. p. 277, Syd. Soc. Ed. CHAPTEK XLI. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE UTEEU8. Congenital Malformations.—We have already given an instance (page 746) of an entire absence of the uterus—a malformation which need not affect the health of the individual. Rokitansky states that the occurrence is extremely rare, and that most of the cases in which the uterus appears to he absent may be resolved into a partial arrest of development only, and that, by careful examination, we may find, behind the bladder, one or two rudi- mentary bodies, in the proper fold of the peritoneum, which repre- sent the uterus. An actual multiplication of the organ is equally rare ; but it is not an uncommon thing to find a more or less complete attempt at the formation of a double cavity, which is manifestly the result of an arrest of development. The bilo- cular and horned uterus are the malformations alluded to; in the former, a more or less perfect septum extends through the uterus in the median line; in the latter, the organ presents the character of the uterus exhibited by certain mammalia, as the sheep, and is divided into two lateral compartments by a fissure, extending vertically downwards from the fundus. This maybe explained upon the assumption of an imperfect union of the two rudimentary bodies from which the normal uterus is developed. Only one of these may arrive at maturity, and we shall then have a uterus consisting only of a single horn, or of one half; there will then, necessarily, only be a single Pallopian tube. The uterus unicornis, as well as the uterus bilocularis and bicomis, are capable of becoming impregnated ; Rokitansky* details the parti- culars of an example of pregnancy in a rudimentary uterine horn, which terminated fatally by rupture and sanguineous effusion into the peritoneal cavity in the third month. There may he many intermediate conditions between the bicornute uterus and the organ with one horn so much larger than the other as to place it in