56 ACTIVE HYPEBJEJHA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. accompanied by obvious dilatation of the arteries, not always preceded by contraction.* General acceleration of the flow of blood through the capillaries has also been produced by the excitation in the same manner of a special nerve in the rabbit, called by Cyon and Ludwig the depressor—a branch of the vagus. All these effects appear to be reflex, and the action to pass through a part of the central nervous system, the medulla oblongata. According to the most recent researches, those of Owsjannikow,.this “ vascmotor centre ” is in the rabbit situated immediately below the corpora quadrigemina, and above the calamus scriptorius.t The path taken by the reflected nervous stimulus must be through the sympathetic to the vasomotor nerves; and this consideration lessens the force of certain objections to this theory. For instance, it appears a strong prima facie objection that, as we know, a paralyzed limb can be the seat of active hypersetnia, and that, as Mr. Simon has shown, “the absence of a spinal cord, or the division of all the roots of the nerves, or the section of the lumbar and sciatic plexus, will make little or no difference to the certainty with which an irritant, applied to the web of a frog's foot, will quicken the circulation there, and subsequently lead to its retard- ation and arrest.” It is impossible to deny that the neuro-pathological theory, in its present form, offers an adequate explanation of the phenomena of hypersemia from irritation; but it is by no means proved that an external stimulus always acts in this indirect manner. Primary Changes in the Tissues.—We are accordingly led to seek for an explanation in the direct action of stimuli on the elements of the tissues, without the intervention of nerves and muscles; the latter being, on this supposition, only secondarily affected, in consequence of the molecular changes which take place in the elements. We will therefore briefly put together the arguments which appear to us conclusive, that what we have called the “ nutrition force,” and Dr. Carpenter the “ capillary,” does really exist, and is concerned in producing the state of active hypereemia. (1). When a part is not employed (a limb, for instance) for some time, it wastes and atrophies. Its blood- vessels become smaller, and its temperature falls. Manifestly the circulation of blood through it is diminished. (2). When a part (as a limb^ is actively employed, it enlarges, its temperature is increased, its blood-vessels are more developed, and the quantity of blood passing through it is evidently greater. (3). When a gland is excited to increased action, as the mamma of the female, the flow of blood to it is increased, and the vessels become en- larged. (4). In plants it has been observed, among other instances of the influence of local stimuli, that a branch of a tree, growing * Lov£n, “ Ludwig’s Arbeiten n.us der Physiologischen Anstalt zu Leipzig,” 1S66 ; pp. 1 to 26. Cyon and Ludwig, i6id., pp. 128 to 149. + Berichte der K. Such?, Gesellschaft der Wissenscliaften. Math. Phys. Clas?e. May 6th, 1871.