543 1I0RBID CONDITION'S OF THE TONGUE. result from the same cause; they often occupy the median line in the front part of the organ; they may he mere cracks, or extend three-quarters of an inch in depth, with irregular ulcerated edges. 'Syphilitic tumours, which are described by Dr. H. Salter under the name of glossy tubercle, appear to be of the same nature as the syphilitic tubercles termed gummatci, found in various parts of the body. Ricord speaks of them as deep-seated tubercles of the sub- mucous areolar tissue. They are composed of the usual fibro- nucleated tissue, and tend after a time to degeneration and 'atrophy. Often they cause very destructive ulceration. Cancel .■ -The tongue is liable to be the seat of cancerous growths of the scirrhous and epithelial species. The former is described by Mi-. Travers as at first being an irregular rugged knob, generally situated in the anterior third, and midway between the raphe and one edge. Ulceration sometimes takes place very rapidly; the •.surface at the same time throwing out luxuriant fungous growths : ■in other cases it “is very uneven, clear and bright granulations appearing in parts, and in others deep and sloughy hollows.” In an interesting case of epithelial cancer, carefully watched by ‘Dr. H. Bennett, which may be taken as an instance of what is commonly seen, the first appearance of the disease was a small -ulcer on the margin of the tongue This extended, in spite of its being shielded from the pressure of the teeth, and had hard everted “■edges undermined some way by ulceration. These became more (•ragged, and here and there over tne surface some degree of sup- | puration and sloughing occurred. Much improvement followed lathe excision of the tumour—the wound healed favourably Not , long after, however, the glands under the jaws enlarged, and were • removed; and in about nine months after this, the disease re- ■ tinned in the tongue and proved fatal. The morbid growth which had. been removed, presented on a transverse section a tract of ■ white, indurated, infiltrated structure immediately below the ulcer, and above the muscular substance of the tongue. This indurated tract was half an inch thick posteriorly, and consisted 01 a fibroid structure enclosing debris of muscular fibre, and some “ tfie characteristic circular loculi of epithelial cancer. The surmcc of the ulcer was covered with papillary elevations, which intn fin d ctlefly of enlarged, softened, epithelial scales splitting n-iib T!Jre’ Sn “ ^ f0171 a klnd of frlnge’ as certain cells met mthnorrnaUy in deep layers of the epidermis. usi is the commonest form of cancer affecting the ton'mo Tn it i!awSt 11 Statccl to be a nodule below the surface, but m.a,° usually observed until the surface is broken, and the I j M growth appears as an ulcer, with raised edges and in- botb1!'1 biS°; nThe ui filtration and ulceration spread rapidly wen /S? “ d°pth’. til,V10t only a portion or iesh-nrU h ° ° tho toneue itself may be destroyed, but the no U l;°tPrOCO? ma£ mvo.lvo the gums> the fauces, and still e remote parts. Extension to the lymphatic glands takes