T67 CANCER OE TIIE UTERUS. feature which broadly distinguishes this disease from fibroid growths. A very remarkable exception is presented in a specimen of cancer of the body and fundus uteri in St. George’s Hospital Museum, in which the cervix is entirely free from disease (No. 134). Irregular thickening and induration of the os and cervix with deep fissures may be the result of chronic inflammation and laceration, and as this is a curable affection, it is important to distinguish it. It is to be noted that in this form of deformity of the os uteri, the fissures radiate around the os, the lobes so formed being quite smooth, free from nodulation and from ulceration. On the other hand, in early stages of malignant disease, the mucous membrane of the os and cervix is studded with irregular hard tubercles, or a single knotty growth is present, the covering membrane being of a livid blue or crimson colour, and glued to the parts beneath. The occurrence of a roughly excavated ulcer on a hard base, and ac- companied with much surrounding induration, and some fixation of the uterus, renders the more dreaded diagnosis pretty certain. The advance of the growth and the concomitant subjective symp- toms, the fusion and ulceration, the implication of the surrounding parts in the process, the fixation of the womb, and the rigid nodu- lated degeneration of the vaginal mucous membrane, together with sanguineous foetid discharge, soon enable us to form a positive opinion if the disease be malignant. The disease spreads more or less rapidly to the adjoining parts ; to the vagina, the rectum, and the other pelvic viscera, the whole being matted together in extreme cases, and presenting a frightful spectacle of disorganization and cancerous destruction. The ulcer- ation that leads to this result, while it gives rise to foetid vaginal discharges, causes very extensive loss of substance of the parts first involved; the vaginal portion of the uterus, and the vagina itself, are the first to be eroded, and gradually communications are esta- blished between the various abdominal organs; the destructive character of the affection nowhere manifesting itself with the viru- lence that it here exhibits. All this havoc is what we might reasonably expect to ensue from the presence of any morbid infil- tration leading to rapid cell growth and early decay in a free mucous surface abundantly supplied by vessels and in constant friction against an opposed mucous surface. No matter what the special anatomical cell-growth, such irritation would be certain to sot up inflammatory processes in its immediate neighbourhood, and the free secretions of both uterus and vagina tainted by so grave an irritant would speedily cause the spread of such malignant destruc- tion in the manner commonly witnessed. This uniformity of the destructive process in growths widely differing in their anatomical structure, when attacking the os and cervix uteri, has been pointed out by Mr. Henry Arnott, * in a review of 136 cases of uterine cancer noted by him in the Middle- • “Cases illustrating Certain Points in the Pathology of Cancer of the Uterus ” by Henry Arnott, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxi. p. 281, et seep