INFLAMMATION OF TILE PEBITONEL'M. 554 rupture of the intestine appears to resemble precisely that produced experimentally by injecting irritating substances ; and may be taken as a type of acute inflammation. In such a case we find, beside hyperaemia, emigration of blood corpuscles, and production of fibrin, germinative changes, especially in the endothelial plates (Pig. 8, page 89). These appearances seem, however, to be similar to what may he normally seen in the peritoneum, differing from these chiefly in their greater intensity. Adhesions.—Adhesions are very often found in the peritoneum, connecting the visceral and parietal layers together, and are some- times of considerable length ; in many instances, no doubt, they are the result of partial inflammations giving rise to fibrinous exudation, which is afterwards transformed into areolar tissue; in other cases we are inclined to think the growth takes place with little or no preceding hypersemia, and appears to be effected by the same natural germinative process to which we have already alluded, and which is also the cause of the gradual thickening and shortening seen in the omentum with advancing age. The _ 9 -i 1 J I'Ll J Vi-rr ftffiisinn illlU. SitUi OULU o-xj. uxxw _ . i.1 inflamed membrane becomes somewhat thickened by the enusion taking place in its own texture. Bands of adhesion sometimes become the cause of fatal incarceration of the intestine, an opening : bom" formed by these means, into which a coil of intestines pa>-e?. and after a time having become distended, is strangulated by the abnormal band. A case of this kind is recorded m the report of the Pathological Society, 1851-52, in which seven or eight inches - of the lowest part of the small intestine were strangulated by a ring formed by a strong fibrous band passing from the mesentery to the anterior surface of the rectum. , J Suppuration, as has been said, is not (infrequently a result ol acute peritonitis, the purulent matter-being, as it were, smeared all over the surface of the membrane; sometimes, however, it tahte I place in a single part, and forms a circumscribed abscess. On opening the abdomen of a female who had been attacked with peritonitis after the operation of ovariotomy, and whosmwived j several weeks after the inflammation had been suodued there were found not onlv traces of lymph on the surface of the intestines, but a quantity of'well-formed pus in the interior of a cavity formed by. adjacent convolutions. Had life been prolonged the Pu , F have made its wav by ulceration into the mtesanal tube, an been evacuated. 'Rokitansky in mentioning this occurrence spea^ j of the abscess sometimes discharging itsell through t ‘ parietes, or opening this way as well as into the a fistulous communication with the bowel is the resul . discharges sometimes take place from the umbilicus. . cuated, pus sometimes becomes shut off or encysted m sj?e ‘ ^ ' tions of the peritoneum, such as between the liver and diaphr. or in either inguinal region; and we have become con^nced that m such cases absorption of the solid portions of ttopn ay place, only serous fluid remaining in a thick-walle i . -