THE TRACHEA. 442 the corresponding half of tho former only, the mesian line forming the division between the normal pale tissue and the portion that presents increased vascularity. A similar observation has been made with regard to tho occurrence of ulcers, viz., that v. hen fol- lowing unilateral pulmonary disease, they are confined to the cor- responding side of the trachea. Otherwise the point of divergence of the bronchi and the posterior mesian line are the most frequent seat of tracheal ulcers. They may often be traced to follicular in- flammation, in the same way as obstructed solitary follicles put on the appearance of tubercular deposit. Enlargement of the follicles is far more characteristic of tracheal inflammation than of that of the larynx or bronchi. , , Tubercular ulceration of the trachea rarely if ever occurs without the same disease of the larynx. The essential connection between ulceration of the trachea and pulmonary phthisis, is even more firmly established than in regard to the relation between the latter and laryngeal ulceration. Louis* found that of 190 phthis:calp subjects, seventy-six presented ulcerations in the trachea, wlnie. in 500 non-phthisical subjects carried off by chronic diseases, exa- mined by the same pathologist, not one presented any tracheal or laryngeal ulceration. A curious circumstance connected with this question is, the different ratio in which the two sexes are effected ; thus, Louis has shown, that while only about one-fourth of the females who succumb to pulmonary consumption exfu Hit ulcers in the trachea, they are found m half the male subjects similarly diseased. . , Diphtheritic and croupous inflammation of the trachea prerent no characters which differ from the phenomena exhibited by these dis- eases when affecting the larynx alone. , Syphilitic affections of the trachea are not common, except as an extension of the same disease affecting the larynx. , Ulceration of the trachea and bronchi, without participation o the larynx, has been sometimes, though very rarely, observed. Perforation of the trachea sometimes occurs m consequence of extension of cancerous disease from the oesophagus, or simply from the pressure of an aneurism or other tumour. _ New growths in general, polypi, epithelioma, and others, . far less common than in the larynx. . , » xp0 The rings of the trachea, like the cartilaginous structures of the larynx, are liable to become abnormally ossified, a condition which does not in itself exert any material influence on the health of the individual. The functions of the trachea are more liable to be m terfered with than those of the upper portion of the an tubes. pressure exerted from without; encysted tumours, hypertrop^ and other diseased conditions of the thyroid gland, aneunsmal tumours of the carotid or subclavian arteries or of the arch of the aorta, enlarged cervical glands, tumours, and foreign b * “ On Phthisis,” Syd. Soc. Ed. p. 42.