•1G0 VESICULAR EMPHYSEMA. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, xiv. 11.) woolly feel, to prevent its collapse on the thorax being opened, and to render it more or less dry and exsanguine. The emphysematous portion, if superficial, projects above the sur- face of the unaffected i part; and large bullae mav be visible on the surface of the lung, from the gradual oblite- ration of the intervesi- cular tissue, allowing i several vesicles to unite. The loss of elasticity in the pulmonary tissue, whether primary or se- condary, prevents the usual collapse of the lung at the period of expiration; the vitiated air is not expelled as it ought to be; and this is one cause of want of oxygen. Another cause of deficient respiration is the diminution of the respiratory surface. As the groups of air cells expand and their partitions become obliterated, and still more when the walls are ruptured, two or more cavities being thrown into one, the area of the inner surface will become less. Minute Changes in Vesicular Emphysema.—The principal change seen in fine sections of the lung in an early stage of emphysema consists in enlargement of the central cavity or infundibulum of the terminal group of air cells, by which the air cells opening into it are removed further from one another, and from the centre. The peculiar appearance thus produced is seen very well in the representation of pneumonia given in Pig. 105. The lung from which the preparation was made, though hepatized, showed, even to the naked eye, enlargement of the air cells. Poliowing this or at the same time, the partitions between the adjoining air cells of the same lobule become lower, the air cells shallower, and finally they all become merged in one cavity. This is evidently a return to the simpler type of lung found in the lower vertebrate, and as has been referred to above, the area of the interior surface becomes less. It will be easily seen how, if the excess of pressure and atrophy of the walls continue, communications will be formed between adjacent air cells (the existence of which normally is doubtful) and between adjacent lobules (which never exist nor- mally). The larger cavities thus formed show in their warn deficiency of elastic fibres, but an excess of connective tissue; and as is stated by some observers, a superabundance of the connective tissue nuclei. The blood-vessels are also found to be scanty, being Eig. 102. Portion of emphysematous lung—the cavities are either formed by simply enlarged air cells, or by the coalescence of groups of cells.