INFLAMMATION. 79 Temperature.—The natural temperature of an inflamed part seems to be considerably increased, and this as well to the sensations of the observer as of the sufferer (hence the name “ inflammatio,” a burning). The increase of heat is not always very great, as shown by the thermometer; in some of Hunter’s experiments the difference was not more than one degree, and it seems doubtful whether the heat of the inflamed part is generally greater than that of the internal parts of the body. The temperature of an in- flamed limb is always above that of a corresponding (uninflamed) part; but this difference has not been observed in an inflamed pleura. The rapid interchange of blood must, of course, tend to equalize the temperatures of different parts of the body; but the later experi- ments of Simon* and 0. Weberf have shown that the temperature in a wounded limb may be higher than that of the rectum, though from Jacobson’s experiments this is not always so4 Simon’s experiments with the thermo-electric apparatus, confirmed by those of Weber, have also shown that the arterial blood supplied to an inflamed part is cooler than the seat of inflammation itself; while the venous blood returning from the part, though warmer than the arterial blood, does not come up to the temperature of the inflamed part. Both the inflamed tissues themselves and the venous blood going from them were warmer than the correspond- ing parts of the other (normal) side of the body. There is always a general increase in the temperature of the body, as well as this local elevation; and from the results just quoted it was concluded -that the general elevation was owing to the increased supply of heat from the inflamed part through the blood. Calculations, however, have proved that this explanation is not sufficient, and that local inflammation raises the general temperature in some other way, probably by producing the little-understood condition of general fever. With regard to the cause of increased tempera- ture of inflamed parts, there can be no doubt that is due, in general terms, to the more rapid chemical change which accompanies, or constitutes, increased physiological activity; but no more definite explanation can, as yet, be given. Pain and Swelling.—The pain of inflammation varies much in degree and in kind, according to its seat and intensity and excit- ing cause. That of inflamed serous membranes is often of a peculiar, sharp, darting kind; that of mucous membranes more dull and gravative, as it is termed; that of dense, unyielding, fibrous or bony textures, amounts sometimes to extreme agony. The inflammation heightens the sensibility of the nerves, which are at the same time compressed by the swollen textures and dis- tended vessels. • Holmes’s “System of Surgery:’’ article “Inflammation.’’ + “ Deutsche Klinik,” 1864, No. 43. i .Taeobson, Virchow’s “ Archiv,” vol. li. p. 276. The results obtained by this experi- menter, as well as those of Bernhardt and others, are at present in direct contradiction with those of Simon and Weber. See Virchow’s “ Jahresbericht,” f 18R9, vol. i. p. 124 f. 1870, vol. i. p. 188. “Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,” May, 1871, pi 410. ’