NEW GROWTH OF ADIPOSE TISSUE. 140 mated to weigh 275 lb. (actual weighing being impossible), while the body of the patient was estimated at less than 100 lb.* Their most common seat is the subcutaneous connective tissue, especially in regions where fat is apt to collect, as on the buttocks, the thighs, the back, and neck, &c. They have, however, been seen part, globular; they have a peculiar doughy feel, with some degree of elasticity. They grow slowly, and occasion inconvenience only by the pressure they exert on surrounding parts : when at last this distension becomes excessive, the skin covering the tumour atten- uates, and ulcerates, and a sloughing sore may be thus produced, which may destroy life by exhaustion. It sometimes happens that a fatty tumour seated in the submucous tissue pushes as it grows the yielding membrane before it, and thus, acquiring a pedicle, hangs into the intestinal cavity. A steatoma is a fatty tumour, with a preponderating excess of areolar tissue, and hence of firmer consistence. Patty tumours are subject, though rarely, to calcareous degene- ration, and may also undergo partial transformation into the tissue of myxoma. Formation of true bone in them is rare, hut not unknown. They may also inflame and ulcerate. Fatty tumours are strictly innocent; they may be multiple, but never produce metastatic growths in distant parts. Adipose tissue from a fatty tumour. Fig. 18. in many other parts, as be- neath the scalp, in the sub- mucous tissue of the stom- ach, intestines, bronchi, and in theunderlyingconneetive tissue of the various serous and synovial membranes. In the knee-joint, especially, fatty growths have been distinguished by Muller as “ lipomata arborescentia,” in consequence of their branching form : this seems to result from their origi- nating in the connective tissue, and growing inward towards the synovial cavity. Lipomata have further been observed in the lungs, liver, and kidneys, and in the bones. The surface of lipo- mata is commonly lobulated ■—their form, for the most Catalogue of (lie Warren Anatomical Museum. Boston, 1S70, p. 642.