ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VAGINA. 746 medical jurists, as its absence has been regarded as an unequivocal sign of defloration, or its presence as a proof of the unimpaired virginity of the individual. Neither position is absolutely correct; for the best authorities are agreed that, on the one hand, it mav be destroyed by ulcerative absorption, or, on the other, that it may persist, not only after coition, but even after parturition. The latter fact is corroborated by the testimony of Merriman, Nagele, Ramsbotham, and others. Other deviations from the normal state of the hymen are the cribriform perforations that it exhibits ; or it surrounds the entire introitus vaginae, leaving a central circular orifice, or it entirely occludes the passage. The latter circum- stance is not likely to be discovered, as other atresiae of the external orifices are, early in life. With the approach of puberty' it will induce much inconvenience from the mechanical retention of the menstrual discharge, and, unless discovered and rectified, will be the source of serious disturbance. The hymen is some- times found much indurated, and of a cartilaginous consistency, and even osseous deposits have been met with m it. The hymen, after it has been ruptured, is partially, if not entirely, absorbed. The carunculse myrtiformes, which have been generally looked upon as the remains of the hymen, are now regarded by manv authorities as normal formations that are not associated with lesion of the hymen. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VAGINA. The vagina presents very considerable varieties of conformation and size within the normal limits of health, differences depending upon the age of the individual and the effects of cohabitation or childbirth, or the absence of these influences. A congenital closure of the passage may, independently of an imperforate hymen, or adhesion of the labia, convert the vagina into a cul-de-sac, a lesion which can scarcely be attributed to anything but intra-ute- rine inflammation, if the uterus be present. A remarkable instance, which appears to have been an arrest of development, is detailed by Dr. Boyd,* where, in a female, aged seventy-two, who had been married, though necessarily without issue, the vagina terminated in a cul-de-sac, about half an inch deep, beneath the orifice of the urethra. There was no vestige of a uterus, nor any Fallopian tubes; the right ovary was natural, and attached by a loose liga- ment to the bladder; the left ovary was abnormal, but similarly connected with the bladder. A multiplication of parts is, perhaps, more frequently met with, and is produced by the formation of a septum, which is more or less complete; it may extend through the entire length of the vagina, or only partially divide it. A remarkable specimen of this malformation was exhibited by Mr. Birkett before the Pathological Society ; t the vagina of a married • “ Med .-Cliir. Trans.,’’ vol. xxv. p. 157. + “Report, &c., 1S47-48,” p. 295.