PUERPERAL PERITONITIS. 794 recovery, -with obliteration of a portion of tbe vein, and permanent induration of some of the soft parts. In a case examined twentv- one months after the attack, Dr. Lee found the external iliac vein, with its subdivisions, and the upper part of the femoral, converted into a ligamentous cord, so that it could only be distinguished from the surrounding cellular tissue by careful dissection. Xo trace of the entrance of the common iliac into the cava could be made out. The left side has a greater tendency to become affected than the right. The thrombi formed by either of these processes, when no inflammation is present, are quite innocent. They may gradually be removed or changed, in the manner described in speaking of thrombosis (p. 391), without producing any symp- toms. The only danger arising from them is that of embolism; i.e., detachment of a mass of clot which may interfere with the heart, or block up the pulmonary artery, as before described. It is well known that such accidents do happen in the puerperal state. But in consequence of puerperal inflammation a different series of changes is-gone-through by the thrombi, and the con- sequences of any detachment of masses from them will also be different. The thrombus passes into the condition of puriform softening ; the wall of the vein frequently becomes inflamed, and thus actual suppuration within the vein may occur. Fragments from a clot thus altered will, if they reach the pulmonary artery, set up abscesses there, and probably also produce general pysemia. This they do partly because they come from an inflamed part, but also because in those uterine inflammations which are specific, the emboli are the vehicles of the specific poison. Thrombosis and .phlebitis thus supply one channel by which poisonous matters can enter the system. They are in fact, as said before, part of the machinery of pysemia. PUERPERAL PERITONITIS. The serous membrane of the abdomen is very frequently attacked by inflammation in the puerperal state. Peritonitis occurs primarily or secondarily, and is, undoubtedly, the lesion most commonly associated with puerperal fever. It may be limited to the surface of the organ, and more particularly to the part surrounding the neck, or it may involve more or less of the entire sac. The membrane never exhibits much vascularity, and in the low typhoid forms there is a remarkable absence of congestion and redness. In the more sthenic forms which approach to the character of ordinary peritonitis, the greater vascular action is accompanied by the production of lymph and pus of a healthy appearance, adhering to the surfaces, and matting them together. The ordinary character of the exudation, however, is a copious