HAEMORRHAGE. 201 from this condition are just risible to the naked eye, varying in size from to Agfnch, and are attached to vessels not more than j-Ljinch in diameter. They are found in all parts of the brain, But most frequently in the optic thalami and corpora striata, next in the convolutions, and least frequently in the pons Varolii. The number is extremely variable; sometimes only two or three could be discovered, sometimes hundreds. In cases of recent hfemorrkage they look much larger, owing to their being sur- rounded by a clot which is enclosed within the perivascular sheath ; on opening this, the aneurism is iound ruptured. The authors ob- served these aneurisms in eveiy one of eighty-four cases of cerebral hiemorrhage (either recent or occurring some time before death), while no one of the other morbid conditions sometimes associated with apoplexy was observed in more than a certain proportion of the cases.* Recovery from Apoplexy.—The apoplectic effusion is not neces- sarily fatal in proportion to the amount of blood discharged from the vessels ; but the rapidity of the issue appears to bear a relation to the vicinity of the haemorrhage to the medulla oblongata. The effusion of blood into the ventricles is also marked by being very rapidly fatal. Much probably also depends upon the amount of laceration of the cerebral tissue accompanying the haemorrhage, inasmuch as the curability of apoplectic effusion seems to be in the ratio of the interstitial character of the discharge. Thus Messrs. Foville and Ollivier have pointed out, both with regard to the encephalon and the spinal cord, that the cure of paralysis resulting from rupture of the nerve-tissue is never complete, but that where the patient is restored to perfect health, the haemorrhage has mostly separated and compressed the cerebral or spinal fibres. Complete restoration of nervous power is often rendered impossible by the secondary degeneration of the white fibres of the spinal cord which results from continued disease. Changes in the Effused Jllood.--The processes that occur in the blood itself, after it has been effused within the brain, are—the formation of a coagulum. the gradual absorption of the fluid parts of the blood, the formation of an organized membrane around the clot, and the continued absorption of the latter. The rapidity with which these changes occur differs considerably, and depends greatly upon the healthy condition of the surrounding parts. Dr. Macintyref has recorded a case of apoplexy, in which thirteen days after the seizure, the cyst was found fully formed, organ- ized, and nearly empty. On the other hand, Moulin + mentions one of seventeen years’ duration, in which a cyst was found con- Chftreotet Bouchard: “Archives de Physiologic,” 1868, tomei.pp.no 648 726 Pianr-hes lii.-v. The same appearances were observed by Ilesehl (“ Wiener Medi-,’ Wochenschnft,” 1866, Sept. 6 and 9) but not connected with hmnmrrl.nw A rfnohi Was previously observed by Dr. Gull 1" Guy’s Hospital Reports,” 1839 ser hi 'ol ,v-_. 8eealso Bastian : “Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1867, vol. xviii. p. 76. > ser. m. c*»a- u i/u, Lin.il . x ail. , I UUI. uUE.f I 1 “‘‘port of Pathol. Society," 1817. p. 11. * “ Train? de l’Apoplexie, ou Hemorrhagic GY' CerC'brale,” &c. Paris, 1819.