VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. 91 of election about the prominence of the knees and elbows ; eczema prefers the side of llexion of the limbs and the bends of joints; liichen affects the outer sides. The same is exemplified in the aaction of many medicines and poisons; arsenic, in small doses, ^produces conjunctivitis—in larger, inflammation of the stomach mnd intestines, corrosive sublimate inflames the larger intestines, nmercury the gums, and so on; in all these cases the affinity or attraction of the elements of the tissue for the substance is clearly eevinced. Diphtheritic inflammation is characterized by the early eexudation upon mucous surfaces of a film or membrane of fibrinous imatter of dirty white or greyish appearance ; this may extend over aa considerable tract, commencing often in the fauces, and thence ^spreading to the mouth, the larynx, the air passages, the oesophagus, aand more or less of the alimentary canal. The subjacent mucous rmembrane is but little swollen, of a deep dull red, and inclined to ibleed, on the removal of the exudation. The attendant fever is of ..a low kind, and much of the danger depends upon the insidious, aalmost latent manner, in which the exudation takes place, so that .-suffocation may be actually threatened before alarm is taken. IThis kind of inflammation occurs most often in epidemics. It has Ibeen observed in France that during its prevalence wounds and ’.ulcerations assumed an unhealthy character, and were indisposed • to heal. The anatomical characters of diphtheritic false membranes •are very peculiar, and will be further considered hereafter. Of a -somewhat similar kind are the croupous inflammations; among ’" these we should, perhaps, rank the so-called bronchial polypi, the . pieces of membrane which are passed after the irritation of calomel, and in some other cases of intestinal disorder, and, probably, some • of the membranous exudations of dysmenorrhcea. Hcemorrliagic inflammation is another variety; it seems chiefly to occur in . individuals predisposed to haemorrhage, or in places where scurvy -is prevalent. Dr. Williams has found it associated with cirrhosis 1 of the liver and granular degeneration of the kidney. His opinion -is, that it is more dependent on an altered condition of the colour- ing matter than on a deficiency of the fibrine. Its character is decidedly asthenic. Scrofulous Inflammation.—Scrofulous inflammation is not so much a distinct variety as some others, but has been distinguished as follows:— The inflammations called scrofulous occur almost exclusively in children and young persons, especially such as have what must be called a special tendency or diathesis. In such persons a slight irritation will produce an inflammation of singular obstinacy, and • extremely liable to cause permanent destruction or inj ury of parts, .rheir tissues seem to have less power of resistance to disease and less power of restoration than those of “ healthy ” persons •’ and . nenee the inflammations partake of the same character. Scrofulous ■ .nflammations are also very liablo to affect secondarily lymphatic -glands, and excite in them the same lingering and destructive