699 NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. are figured in the paper by Dr. Murchison, before quoted (“Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. pc. p. 192, plates yii. and viii.). We have more often seen diffuse infiltrations, no importance. The only case of a large fibrous tumour of the kidney which we have found recorded is that communicated by Dr. Wilks to the Pathological Society, of a man, aged fifty-three, in whom the right kidney was converted into a tumour, the size of a child’s head, composed solely of very hard fibrous tissue. (“ Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. xx. p. 224.) Small lipomata sometimes occur in the cortex. Sarcoma only occurs m secondary growths. A dermoid cyst was observed in one case by Sir J. Paget. Syphilitic tumours, in the form of gummata, are occasionally seen, but are rare. As in the liver, they may ultimately produce a mere puckering of the organ, closely resembling that produced by fibrinous blocks. Cancer. We have not exact data for determining the frequency of renal cancer, but it is certainly not rare. Secondary seems to be more frequent than primary cancer. Contrary to the general rule it occurs equally at all ages, and not only in advanced life, especially if primary cancer only be regarded; but if secondary cancer be included, Dr. Walshe’s tables show the period from fifty to seventy to be most liable. Ten cases only occurred in the pre- vious years of life; while nineteen were noted in the succeeding twenty. Scirrhus is rarely, if ever, found ; and the same may be sanl °f conoid. Encephaloid growths, especially in children, attain m the kidney an enormous size. A case has been mentioned to us by Dr. f. K. Chambers, in which the weight of the tumour was three-fourths that of the whole bodv. The stnlomonf v,r v>„ which present microscopical appearances precisely resem- bling those in Pig. 165. Sometimes the capillaries are seen infarcted with white corpuscles, which per- haps accounts for part of the infiltration of the stroma. o Fig. 165. Fibroma.—Small fibrous tumours, an eighth of an inch in diameter or more, are not unfrequently seen in the pyramidal portion. They are composed of firm fibrous tissue, and some- times contain remains of secreting structure, but have Section of kidney affected with a lymphatic tumour or lymphatic infiltration. The tubes are seen widely separated by a mass chiefly composed of lymphoid corpuscles. The epithe- lium of the tubes is unaltered.