662 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE 8UPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. have opened into the trachea. In cases of tuberculosis the thymus is occasionally involved; it becomes considerably enlarged, firmly united with surrounding parts, and either converted by tubercular infiltration into a hardened mass, or else partially destroyed by softening.” Mr. Simon mentions a case in which suffocation was occasioned by the pressure of a tumour appa- rently of sarcomato-cystic character in the situation 01 the thymus, and Sir Astley Cooper met with a case of encephaloid growth in this part. „ ,, . , The thymus is not unfrequently found greatly enlarged; but the nature of the hypertrophy, as it is called, has not been exactly determined by microscopic observation. It is tolerably certain that this enlargement is not, as has been supposed, the cause of attacks of sudden and sometimes fatal dyspnoea occurring in children. For it has been shown that ‘ thymic asthma,” as it is termed, may occur with an unnaturally small thymus; and that the gland may be greatly increased in size without producing any symptoms of dyspnoea. The thymus is the starting-point of some of the lymphatic mediastinal tumours before referred to. They appear to begin with a simply homologous growth, since the structure of some ol these growths resembles that of the normal thymus. Generally they remain simple tumours, but in some cases infiltration ol neighbouring parts and of the lungs occurs, and the growth is decidedly malignant. The cancers formerly described as cancers of the thymus were probably of this kind. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. The supra-renal capsules may be deficient, especially where there is a deficiency in other organs also. Their absence, however, does not coincide with that of any other organ m particular, and they may be present when one kidney is absent, so that their name must not be taken to imply any correlation of function. Accessory supra-renal capsules are of frequent occurrence. They are some- times found hypertrophied, but the nature of the enlargement oe~ not appear. It is said that they are unusually large in negroes, and that the cortical substance contains an unusual quantity of pigment. Their normal condition is one of at least relative atrophy, that is, they do not grow and increase m size togetiier with the other parts of the body. ,, • •. The principal indications of atrophy are manifested, we «nnK, by the shrinking and diminution of the medullary substance, a the breaking up of the cortical cells into oily masses. It is . esting to compare the condition of the degeneratmg capsule wi that of an hepatic lobule. In one instance, where a careful search was made, at our request, for the supra-renal capsules in of a child six years old, who had died from a burn, no