THE PITUITARY BODY. 297 ’the cerebral hemispheres as “fall of holes, of which the larger ' were J-yinch across,” and which “ lay so close together as to give a cribriform appearance to the section, the condition is strikingly i like the “ etat crible ” first described by Durand Fardel, and now 1 believed to be owing to atrophy of the brain substance, with ■ subsequent or antecedent dilatation of the perivascular lymphatic • sheaths of the cerebral arteries. The cases (4 and 7) where blood i globules and yellow pigment arising from degenerated blood were : found around the vessels, are evidently instances of that hsemor- : rhage into the perivascular sheaths, which is probably of very com- mon occurrence. In the extreme cases there was evidently destruc- : tion of nervous tissue, and the changes are such as have apparently : not been elsewhere described, except in connection with general : paralysis of the insane; and the fact that they were especially noticeable in the pons and medulla oblongata, i.e., approximately in that physiological region, injury to which is known to produce i diabetes, give Dr. Dickinson’s researches a peculiar interest. The morbid appearances in cases of diabetes described by some French i authors refer chiefly to the nerve cells, and were neither so well 1 marked nor so clearly described. They are, however, more definitely ■ assigned to the “ diabetic region.” THE PITUITARY BODY.- Die pituitary body presents morbid conditions which, gene- rally are rather pathological curiosities, than that they offer any peculiar points of general interest; in a physiological point of view, tumours or cysts occurring in it attract attention, from their a not producing those symptoms which are generally attributed to ^pressure upon the encephalon, and this is supposed to be due to :tfie force acting in an upward direction. Thus they are rarely accompanied by paralysis, though acquiring an extent sufficient ‘ o displace the lateral ventricles, with the thalami and corpora .stnata, a circumstance presenting, as Dr. Romberg remarks, an analogy to the different effects produced upon the conduction of a ■nerve by a tumour, according as the nerve is gradually distended lor forcibly compressed. Neither Rokitansky, who treats diseases •°t the pituitary bodj' in detail, nor Engel, who has written a monograph on the subject, corroborates the observations of Joseph Wenzel, that disease of the pituitary body is an essential feature ■m epilepsy. The pathologists of our own country have not observed a relation of the kind. Epilepsy is met with as a result , t.tle m°3t various degenerations, or morbid products within tho Drain, independently of any marked disease of this appendix cere m ; it is not constantly associated with any one lesion and m the cases of disease of tho pituitary gland, given, for in- stance, by Dr. Bright,* we find no epileptic seizures during life, * Reports, &e., case cxlii.