SUPPTTBATION. 101 parts those appearances which are regarded as indicating proli- feration of the tissue elements; such as cells with several nuclei, groups of cells occupying the place of one; cells within others; and so on. These appearances were principally seen in the con- nective tissue corpuscles, but also in the nuclei of the sarcolemma of muscular tissue ; the neurilemma of nerves, and the various supporting structures of glandular organs; and in addition, as pointed out by other observers, the nuclei of the blood-vessels. In consequence of these processes the interstices of organs become filled with young cells, which are in fact pus-cells, and the result is purulent infiltration. Simultaneously with the changes already described the non-cellular or inter-cellular part of the tissues undergoes important changes. The albuminous constituents become in part replaced by fat, the solid parts soften and liquefy; the whole passes through degenerative changes, ending in destruc- tion ; so that in place of the normal tissue there is a collection of newly formed pus-cells, in fact an abscess. What the cause of this destruction of tissue is, whether it is due to pressure of the newly formed cells, to some peculiar solvent action, or to simple .interference with normal nutrition, is not certainly known. But it is plain that these destructive properties, whatever they are, must cause an abscess, once formed, to increase in the manner in which we know that it does. On the migration theory of Cohnheim the collections of pus-cells are of course regarded as escaped leucocytes, which will tend to move into places already occupied by collections of pus, because this will be, on account of the destruction of the tissue, the direction of least resistance. In the same way, by the active locomotive properties of pus-cells, is explained the possibility of drawing an abscess to the surface (by poultices, &c.); the application of moist heat rendering the tissues more permeable to active elements. The enlargement of an abscess once formed is explicable on the same grounds ; and also through its wall (the pyogenic membrane) being, according to Burdon Sanderson, a structure which facili- tates the extrusion of leucocytes. Suppuration on Mucous Surfaces.—The production of pus on surfaces covered with epithelium was first explained by Virchow as proli- feration from the sub-mucous connective tissue, the newly formed elements making their way to the surface through the epithelium. Susequently it was shown that new elements might also be pro- duced from the epithelial cells, the same changes indicative of proliferation being observed in these as are observed in connective tissue corpuscles. The fact that cells, resembling pus-corpuscles are seen within epithelial cells cannot be doubted, though it is other- wise explained on the theory of Cohnheim. According to this ob- serve! the epithelial elements, like those of the connective tissue are perfectly passive; all the new formed cells are emigrants from th9 vessels, and make their way through the superjacent tissues to the surface, borne of these penetrating into the substance of the