CHAPTER Y. KEf FORMATIONS. It is difficult to give a perfectly exact definition of tlie class of new formations; for we shall exclude from it many productions which are not found in the healthy organism, and shall include in it some which are hut the result of the action of parts normally existing. Thus we shall not mention the excessive production of fat cells, which takes place in general obesity, as an instance of new formations, while we shall consider as such the distension of a sebaceous follicle into an encysted tumour. This defect, however, is common to all arrangements. Nature presents us readily with distinct types of different classes; but rarely, if ever, does she define and separate her groups by any exact limitation, and the rigid taxonomist wearies himself in the search for that which does not exist. The idea which is conveyed in the term “ tumours,'’ seems, in a general way, most descriptive of the class now before us, which may be said to include all new prominent or otherwise apparent local growths. The character of growing excludes tuber- culous and other deposits, and concretions. Thus an effused mass of blood even if it become organized, does not go on increasing in size. Tumours must also be distinguished from mere enlargements or hypertrophies in which no definite form is assumed by the newly formed elements. Finally they must be separated (though the separation is not always easy) from the products of inflammation. There is, doubtless, in the latter process a very abundant formation of new elements, but these do not compose any permanent struc- ture. Either the result is something not strictly speaking organized at all (as pus), or else the organization is but transitory and pre- liminary to some higher kind of organization, as is the case with granulations. But since of some new growths it is also true that they tend to atrophy and decay after going through a period of progressive growth, it is clear that the distinction is one which cannot be absolutely insisted upon. The lino is least clearly drawn in the case of two species of morbid growths sometimes classed as tumours, but sometimes as inflammatory products: and which we consider as a class apart—viz., tubercle and the products of syphilis.