BONY TUMOURS. 146 a kind of bony capsule around them. “ They arise from a chronic inflammation of the bones,” and while these are atrophied, are often of dense hard texture. Sometimes the osteophyte is said to be foliaceous, consisting of beautiful, delicate lamella:, arranged parallel to each other, and running transversely vertical to the axis of the bone. The flat osteophyte is sometimes an extremely thin and delicate layer (like hoar frost); sometimes it is one or two lines in thickness. It is composed of delicate fibrils and lamellae, and at first has scarce any attachment to the bone upon which it lies. “ At a later period the osteophyte is found attached to the bone by some intervening minute round pillars and plates. After having become gradually compact it unites with the bone.” Heteroplastic Osseous Tumours.—Under this head come those instances of heteroplastic production of bone where the new growth is sufficiently distinct to be called a tumour. Their occurrence in tissues, naturally predisposed to ossification, as fasciae and tendon, is not very surprising, and must be taken in connection with the continuous ossification above described. The same may be said of osseous tumours found in the neighbourhood of bones, and especially articulations, called by Virchow parosteal tumours.* But true circumscribed bony tumours have been seen in the lung, the brain, and the skin; for a fuller account of which we must refer to Virchow’s work, already quoted. Osteoid Tumours.—Beside the true bony tumours just described, there are others in which bone may occur. Some of these become osseous by the metamorphosis of fibrous or cartilaginous structure; but there is beside a distinct class of tumours growing from bone which themselves contain bone, and moreover give rise to tumours in other parts of the body having the same structure. They thus differ very much from simple osseous growths, and have accordingly been called malignant osseous tumours, or osseous cancers, or more recently osteoid sarcomata. A minute examination marks off some ex- amples of this kind as being, in truth, cancers, of which the stroma has undergone calcifica- and others as mixed forms in which cancer is combined with Osteoid sarcoma of the femur, consisting chiefly of spindle-cell At b bj commencing ossification. (After Virchow.) tion. a bony growth; but there remain other cases to which neither of these explanations applies. These tumours always arise either from * “ Die KranVlmften Gesclnrulsle,” Bd. ii. p. 91.