6S6 addison’s disease. “ tubercle-corpuscles,” amorphous granular matter, and fat mole- cules without any organizing structure to connect them. The creamy puriform liquid is not true pus, but debris of tissue, granular matter, and fat, like softened caseous material from other sources. Occasionally residual portions of the original structure, especially of the cortical cell-cylinders, are found imbedded in the new growth. Sometimes a small-celled infiltra- tion is seen between these degenerated masses. This has been compared to interstitial hepatitis (Burdon Sanderson). Relations to Tubercle.—The most important anatomical question with respect to these changes is, whether or not they are due to the original production of tubercle. Although miliary tubercle is rarely found in the organ itself, and perhaps never in advanced cases, it frequently occurs simultaneously in other organs, and it is not to be denied that the appearances closely resemble those seen in old pulmonary phthisis, or other tubercular disease, where the fibrous and caseous metamorphoses go hand in hand; so that nothing disproves the possibility of the disease having been tuber- cular in the first place. Again, without calling it tubercular, we might class it with the degenerative inflammatory conditions, called scrofulous, like some forms of pulmonary phthisis. Finally some pathologists regard it as an affection sui generis neither scrofulous nor tubercular. . . It has been described as tubercular by the majority of hnglish observers, as well as by Virchow, Rokitansky, and Rindfleisch. On the other hand, Wilks, Burdon Sanderson, and others describe it as different from tubercle. Greenhow thinks there must be some intimate relation between this lesion and the tubercular dia- thesis. Klebs regards the question as uncertain, and describes it by the neutral name of fibro-caseous change ; believing some cases to be tubercular, others decidedly not. The fact seems to be, that in well-marked cases tubercles proper are never found, but that the appearances are not inconsistent with what would be found m late stages of the diseases commonly associated with tubercles. Out oi 128 unquestionable cases tabulated by Dr. Greenhow, forty-ax were virtually uncomplicated, seventy-two were complicated wit some tubercular or scrofulous disease, while ten were combined with some other serious disease, but not with tubercle; so that in 56 per cent, tubercle was present in other organs. Nature of Addison's Disease— With regard to this question, which is far too complex to be fully discussed here, we can only say, that it seems to be now proved that the other symptoms of the disease are • Klebs enumerates 159 -well-marked cases (omiting all doubtful or observed) and finds that fifty-five were deoidedy non-tub^^ tt^»rdm its widest acceptation), eighty-six were combined with tubercle eitfier organ or elsewhere, while in eighteen the tmbercular character was ^.hj]e Ihis non-tubercular cases, eleven only were without pigmentation of the skm, the re with thirty out of the eighty-six tubercular cases, which seem, toshow that the non-tubercular disease has a more powcrful inHuence ^n P ^lderaUon that affection than has the tubercular. This may be explained bv the cons possibly the tubercular cases were in an earlier stage of disease.