447 BRONCHITIS. in the former than in the latter ; it rather tends to show that the exciting influence of the tubercular cachexia itself, in producing the haemorrhage, is greater than that of its secondary results. The following is the table illustrating this point:— Males. Haemoptysis. Females. Haemoptysis. Number of Cases. Absolute frequency. Per Cent, frequency. Number of Cases. Absolute frequency. Per Cent, frequency. Jst stage 2ail aad 3rd IS 12 6663 21 16 76'19 stages 56 49 87'50 33 26 78-78 Evidence of Haemorrhage.—The anatomical signs after death of bleeding into the bronchi (from whatever source) are very distinct when once clearly appreciated. The blood in the trachea or . larger bronchi is by the respiratory movements drawn into the - smaller tubes, which it blocks up; the air which they contain, . together with the residual air of the air-cells, being driven back into the latter and there imprisoned. When the hemorrhage is : recent, the lung tissue will accordingly be found over-distended, * almost emphysematous and pale; the bronchi occupied by the * blood forming bright red spots in it. Subsequently, however, the imprisoned air is absorbed and the tissue collapses, while the blood pigment becomes diffused into the parts surrounding the bronchial tabes, producing first a red, and ultimately a black staining. The 1 citation of the blood sometimes sets up inflammation in the form of bronchitis and catarrhal pneumonia. BRONCHITIS. . inflammation of the bronchi we find the same variations of injection and secretion that are presented to us in similar con- i ditions of the upper portions of the air conduit; but the nearer we approach the terminations of the subdivisions, the more the bron- chules will be found filled with the fluids poured into them, cor- responding in character, in a measure, to the sputa seen before death, but with a greater admixture of air, the less viscid and tenacious the secretion. The post-mortem appearances may be nmned to mere redness of the mucous membrane. In the smallest ■subdivisions wo must be careful to discriminate between the iniec- uon of the bronchules and the redness resulting from the trans - uc-ency of their tissue, allowing the colour of the subjacent pulmonary parenchyma to shine through. The redness is gene- raUy tolerably uniform in the part affected, fading off at the rntrgin nto the healthy tissue'; we do not commonly meet with that