178 EPITHELIAL CANCER ; CANCROID ; EPITHELIOMA. latter case, the superficial loculi become occupied by soft encepha- loid matter. Clinical character.—The malignant character is less marked in colloid than in the other kinds of cancer ; it does not induce such marked cachexia, does not so often reproduce itself in distant parts, or contaminate the lymphatic glands, and is less prone to softening and decay, or to inflammation and saniation. As, however, it has a great tendency to infiltrate neighbouring parts, and, in well- marked cases, affects the neighbouring lymph glands, and even reproduces itself in distant organs, there can be no doubt of the propriety of the term colloid cancer. The peculiar degeneration which the cells undergo is perhaps the reason why they have a slighter tendency to reproduce themselves in distant parts. EPITHELIAL CANCER ; CANCROID ; EPITHELIOMA. Epithelial cancer seems only recently to have been admitted among the varieties of this disease; it is not mentioned by Dr. Walshe in his elaborate work, and yet its cancerous nature in many cases is unequivocal and strongly marked. It occurs as a primary growth almost solely on tegumentary or mucous surfaces, or in secreting glands; the lips and cheeks are among the parts most commonly affected by it. fiokitansky and horsier mention having observed it in the liver, and Sir J. Paget has recorded two cases of its occurring primarily in lymphatic glands. On mucous surfaces it appears as a cauliflower-like growth, of a more or less red tint from vascular injection, of various degrees of consistency, and easily separated into parts by pressure. On the general tegument, its appearance is most often that of a low, tolerably well-defined tumour, of hard feel, having an irregular nodulated surface, covered with minute watery papillae: when ulceration and soften- ing take place, the surface becomes injected, a watery and serous discharge is poured out, and gradual destruction of the part pro- ceeds In structure, these tumours essentially consist of an alter- ation'of the integument, the corium and subcutaneous areolar tissue being converted into morbid growth, the papillae greatly hypertrophied, as well as the epithelium resting upon them. Tho epithelium is also found dipping down into the deep parts and in- filtrating the co-subcutaneous connective tissue as well as the deeper layers of the skin. In the last specimen we examined, which was from the lower lip, a vertical section displayed an external whitish layer, about one-third inch thick, marked by vertical striae, and resting upon some areolar tissue, tat, and muscle. Its surface showed but slight traces of subdivision. Its extent in depth appeared to be most accurately limited by tho lower margin of the whitish striated layer, but upon ex- amination the areolar tissue immediately subjacent, and ior some depth, was found thoroughly infiltrated with nuclei and granu ar