295 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND THICKENING. in the cellular tissues surrounding the theca of the cord. This is not necessarily at variance with the statements of Dr. Soho Her* and Dr. Colies, f who attribute trismus to inflammation of the umbilical arteries, as this may, and is, found to coexist with the former. Symptoms of congestion of the spinal membranes have also been met with in tetanus, but in by far the greater number of cases, examined after death, no uniform or adequate cause, to which the symptoms were referable, could be discovered. Observers are generally agreed that, at least in the great majority of cases, the appearance of the cord and its membranes, is to the naked eye perfectly normal. The condition of the spinal cord itself in this disease will be discussed further on. Hydrophobia.—-The same absence of uniform pathological data exists in another disease which we cannot but refer to the nervous centres, hydrophobia ; congestion of the cerebro-spinal membranes and nerve matter, and some occasional effusion, is all that is generally met with in the shape of post-mortem effects ; we need not add that these appearances cannot be considered as cha- racteristic of the disease in question. Mr. Youatt, whose extensive experience of hydrophobia in the brute creation justifies our referring to him as an authority, states that the appearance of in- flammation of rabies is of a peculiar character in the stomach, but that no conclusion can be drawn from the state of other organs. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND THICKENING. In cases of long-standing paralysis and paraplegia, we find evi- dence of chronic meningitis of the cord in the corrugation, opacity, and close adhesions of the membranes to one another, and to the cord. A good illustration of this is afforded by a case given in Dr. Bright s Reports (page 380); here the dura mater of cord was un- usually firm and thick, and, as far as the middle of the back, closely adherent to the pia mater, from which, in most parts', it could not be detached without lacerating the cord. On attentive examination it was found that the apparent thickening of the dura mater depended chiefly on a layer of membrane, of almost car- tilaginous thickness, beneath it, and was, probably, rather the diseased arachnoid, or an adventitious deposit, than the dura mater itself. These appearances may be associated with further lesion of the cord, or with adventitious growths of the vertebral column or arachnoid. A remarkable case of thickening and induration of the spinal arachnoid and pia mater is recorded in the “Patho- logical Transactions” for 1809 (vol. xx., p. 354) by Mr. W. Adams and reported upon by Dr. Lockhart Clarke. (See Pigs. 70 and 71.) p.*477NeU<! Zeiteehrift fUr Gebiirtslninde,” von Busch, D'Outrepont und Ritgen, vol. v. t “ Dublin Hospital Reports,” vol. i. p. 285.