ANAEMIA, SPANEMIA. 3S to certain irritant poisons; the second to those that are termed septic. When spongy platinum is placed in a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen gases, they quickly unite together and form water, the platinum itself undergoing no change. This is an example of what Berzelius named “ catalytic action; ” there are many similar known instances, .and it is very probable that actions of this kind are by no means infrequent in the animal system. The solution of the food in stomach digestion is probably, in part, dependent on a catalytic action, or one of a somewhat similar kind, in which the peculiar organic matter called pepsin disposes the alimentary ingesta to undergo solution in the gastric acids. A minute quantity of the change-inducing substance is sufficient to cause the action to com- mence, and so it appears a minute quantity of virus is sufficient to induce septic changes in the blood with which it is mingled. The history of cases of death from the bite of venomous reptiles, of the most malignant fevers, especially scarlatina, and of the effects of the matter of glanders, shows that the essential and primary action of these poisons is to lower extremely the vital powers, and induce putrefactive changes in the organic fluids. AltiEMIA, SPAtfiEMIA. There can be little doubt that by excessive haemorrhage, or exhausting discharges, the whole mass of circulating fluid in the vascular system can be considerably reduced; that is to say, the result .of such losses is not only to impoverish the quality (as we know it does), but to diminish the quantity of the whole mass of blood. The term anwmia, signifying absence or deficiency of blood, is therefore correct, though if it were not so commonly received and employed, one might wish to substitute the term oliyeemia. Spancemia is the name proposed by Dr. Franz Simon to express a deteriorated quality of the blood (oTravos, poor), it almost always accompanies the state of oligsemia, or anremia ; both may, we are inclined to think, exist not unfrequently as the sole condition itself, the blood being of normal quantity, but impaired quality. We will here recapitulate shortly the changes which have been before detailed in the several constituents of antemic and spansemic blood. (1.) The red corpuscles are remarkably dimi- nished, 127 being the average per 1,000, they have been known to sink as low as 27; they also appear to contain less hannatine, being somewhat paler than those of healthy blood. (2.) The amount of white corpuscles does not appear to be altered; in some of our examinations they have been found as numerous as in healthy blood. (3.) The fibrine is quite unaffected; it was never found below the normal mean; and in cases where inflammation of some organ was present its quantity was notably increased. (4.) The solids of the serum have not been found specially altered, (o.) The quantity of water is more or less increased in proportion to the