MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TONGUE. 542 the case of a person in whom, from habitual drinking, the tongue was, for the greater part of its surface, destitute of papilla; : it was white, smooth, and opaque on the surface.’ Llood and lymph may be effused into the substance of the fungiform papilla;, ihe fur which so commonly collects on the surface of the tongue in disease, consists of detached, and more or less disintegrate! | epithelium, with varying proportions of amorphous matter. Vie can corroborate Dr. Salter’s statement, that in some healtny persons the tongue is habitually furred In very'rare cases the freemim of the tongue is so short, that it is quite tied down t j the floor of the buccal cavity, and cannot perform its proper move- ments Minor degrees of the same condition are not infrequent, and gradually improve of themselves. In the opposite condition, “ the movements of the tongue are too free; it can be inerted, and its apex thrown back into the pharynx, which embraces it, and thus the access of air to the lungs through the gloto‘ The sides of the tongue have been known to become closely adherent to the internal surface of the cheeks. Inflammation—The tongue is liable to be affected by lnflamm - tion or glossitis, as it is termed. This m some rare cases, saidby Dr Salter to occur most often in scrofulous persons, causes the formation of abscess. On the matter being evacuated, the tongue speedily returns to a healthy state. Sometimes a partial inflammation o. the tongue is met with, the morbid process beum confined to the uortion°of the base bounded in front by the Y-shaped fine of J,■ .mvillate Danillse. It occurs as an extension of tonsillitu, SSlfSrfl notice. Deglutition in these case, u seriously interfered with. The inflammation of the is nroduced by mercury, sometimes involves the to c , occasions in some cases very great and rapid swelfrng^ It ' not seem to have ever produced suppuration. Dne vanety 01 glossitis has been distinguished by the term erectile by Dr Salten be°iesresoeto’ih'.h; mouth is quite is of a dark black colour, neither morfificatmu nor absc^ s I P - affected. In most cases it occurs m persons who are 1 health, and without any manifestexcitmg cause. t< from inerc . Severe and deep ulcerations of the tongue may nl..r^ons. - m depth, and sometimes m length only. 1C II suuicwi^vw Bhagades or fissures;