MORBID CONDITIONS OF (306 caecum, and the foreign body has thus escaped without affecting the peritoneum. We have also seen a case in which a fish-bone, lodged in tho vermiform appendix perforated the wall, and also a nart of the peritoneum to which it was adherent behind, so as to penetrate into the post-peritoneal tissue, and there produce an abscess, while the peritoneum was unmjured 1 ins have some- times been found in this appendix mcrusted with faecal matter. In j one such case the irritation thus caused seemed to have set up a sort . of pyaemia and given rise to multiple abscesses in the liver ( Trans. Path Soc. ” vol. xxi. p. 231). Eokitansky mentions a curious- accident of a different kind which sometimes befallsthei appendix. Tts canal gels blocked up at a certain part by a foreign body with- out ulceration taking place. In consequence of this the mucous- secretion accumulates in the closed receptacle, which it distends into a kind of dropsical pouch lined by a thm serous-like membrane. Affections of the vermiform appendix are very much more frequent in the male sex than the female, in forty-six cases out of- fifty-two, according to Dr. Crisp. , • -u Dr. Crisp gives the following enumeration of the foreign sub- stances found in thirty-two casesIn seventeen, concretions of- S St -, i« three! heirs or bristles; in two, bone; m two . pin - and in the others, a human tooth, a cherry-stone, the shcn of a hard nut, fig-seeds and raism-seeds, while m three it waa unknown (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. x. p. 152.) . Perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum.—'This form of ulcer requires some special notice. It much resembles the round perforatmd ulcer of the stomach, and being found m a part where gastric fluid must often penetrate probably owes its existence in part to cor- rosive action. These ulcers are usually circular, sometimes exn. tended in the transverse direction, and rarely surroundmg the bowel. They may cicatrize, forming a contracting which causes stricture of the duodenum or of ^^thoutani chus. The edges are often perfectly smooth and ™out an. thickenin" They are most frequently situated m the first par of the duodenum, and it has seemed to us, generally on th. superior or anterior aspect. Perforation takes place in a con- very vigorous man is recorded m the o museum o (vol xix p. 236), and a specimen is preserved m the B £ Mary’s Hospital from the body of a gentleman who w^tak^ ill while walking in the streets, and occur mor perforation of such an ulcer. Ibis attocuon is