INFLAMMATION OF THE STOMACH. 5C1 which we had the opportunity of examining, the whole mucous ■ surface was of a deep red, almost black, the subjacent tissues were much less affected. The cavity was empty, and the organ was much contracted. The surface was uncovered by mucus, only a little alkaline fluid lay in the furrows between the rugae. The capillaries were gorged with blood iu every part of the membrane, they were seen running parallel to the tubes in their whole length’ but those which adjoined the free surface (which are always°the most congested) had given way in numerous spots, and saturated the tissue round them with extravasated blood. The tubes were healthy, and there was no apparent exudation among them. The patient died with cardiac hypertrophy and general dropsy. The liver and spleen were much congested, and it is pretty certain that the hypersemia of the stomach was passive rather than active. Catarrhal Inflammation.—As Eokitansky remarks, we have rarely, if ever, the opportunity of observing the first stage of ■■ acute catarrhal inflammation of the stomach, but we may reasonably infer that it consists, as in other parts, of a more or less considerable hypersemia, accompanied by a copious jexudation of mucus upon the surface, with 'little or no hormous exudation in the substance of the tissue. A chronic .’..catarrhal state is by no means uncommonly met with, the »Anatomical characters of which Eokitansky enumerates “as a alark reddish-brown, or slate-grey, or even blackish-blue dis- coloration of the mucous membrane, copious secretion of a stone-coloured, occasionally glassy pituita, thickening, increased condensation, and induration, i.e., hypertrophy of the mucous membrane, which presents itself in various degrees: (a) In the west degree, the mucous membrane shows simply an increase of pluck ness and hardness in its tissue; (0) in a higher degree it •presents, m addition to its increased thickness, an uneven, race- 1 Aose, or warty surface, a surface mamellonee; (y) in a still more advanced degree, it forms prolongations in the shape of permanent tma folds or of polypus. The submucuous cellular tissue, and the pouscular coat, also participate in this hypertrophy in various egrees—the entire parietes of the stomach presenting unusual mckness, firmness, and hardness. The pyloric portion is the , , * scat °f chronic catarrh, and it is there that hypertrophy of I oo mucous and other membranes is most prominent.” Andra.l FOmarks, that in chronic gastritis the mucous membrane may [ippear after death to be in a perfectly natural state, or at least to ' m'e undergone no alteration discernible by the eye. The sub- rdeent tissues, and particularly the submucous areolar tissue, are '• wever, in these cases more or less affected. Iu the majority of ‘s ances, however, the colour, the consistence, and the substance tie membrane are variously changed. A grey slate, brown i mo?°re or 1®8,® deeP black, tint are often observed, as well as metimes a dull white, milky aspect. In regard of consistence, o o