432 TIIE EPIGLOTTIS. much wider and indeed quite different sense from that which has been usual among ourselves ; and that an almost inextncu he con- fusion has resulted from the application ot the same name to de- ferent objects. It is difficult to separate wholly the morbid anatomy from the clinical symptoms which we cannot discuss here ; and our exposition must therefore he very imperfect. * Anatomical Characters.-In well-marked cases of diphthena, a erev or ash-coloured false membrane is formed on the disused surface and can only he detached with difficulty, and not without some iniury to the subjacent surface, shown either by bleeding or byTaSed ulceration. It is in fact a part of the mucous membrane} beinpartially, at all events, made up of necrotic sloughin tissue P This character of necrosis is the only distinguishing one oi diphtheria- hut it may have, in addition, the characters ot croup. Microscopic examination of the false membrane shows chieflv ne- crotic tissue; at the same time, minute organisms, resembhn Wteria are seen in it, and sometimes a kind of fungoid growth b lav n^ the surface. One or the other of these organisms has appeals disease; hut since they are animal tissue, it is possible that they may be rather the result than the occasion ot the morbid processes. TIIE EPIGLOTTIS. The epiglottis is, notwithstanding its exposure, not very hable to disease^^Pa “urnstance due in part to the dense fibro-cartilagnum tissue which forms its substratum. The mucous membrane winch Wsts it may be affected with acute or chronic inflammation m Sh cb, the vessels eptoge andto- tortuous •*£•£** the li°-ht pink hue is converted into a stieak> , or moie The acute, form is nLcmiml iniury or chemical irritation, wane tne cnio ,- companies old standing catarrhs of advanced ag^a^facor ^ypffi- litic cachexia, and other conditions result b-ntant poisons. The former is met with as a result ot the action .* j « which may thus cause death without passing the.fauces, and ju Dr. Marshall Hall* has pointed out, in_c0^e^ie dr;ny;ng boiling frequently happens among the poorei ord > , cases there water from the spout of the kettle or ^I^^T^nown ass producing immense swelling, but not go 9 suffocative dyspnea one of the instances detailed by Dr. Davis, T sunocauv . • “ Medico-Chinirgical Translations,” vol. xii- P-1 ■ + Ibid.