MORBUS BRIGHT!!. 685 fine sections, or in the drop of liquid which is obtained from the straight tubes, by squeezing the papilla. The drops are known from oil drops by the want of retractive power, and hence by not appearing dark or light as the focus is altered; and from any modification of cell forms by their perfect uniformity and fineness of outline. They do not appear to pass into the mine, and are perhaps partly a post-mortem production. Other authors, as Klebs, believe in two methods of formation. Some casts they believe to be formed by a process resembling secretion from the epithelium; others, as Rokitansky supposes, by metamorphosis of the epithelium. The latter, according to Klebs, are distinguished by their larger size (as they occupy the whole of a tube), and irregular or varicose outline. They do not, he thinks, usually pass into the mine. It must be admitted that the evidence for any one of these modes of origin of the casts, as for their fibrinous nature, falls short of actual demonstration. Undoubted fibrinous solidifying exudation is sometimes seen within the capsule of the Malpighian tuft. Origin of New Cells.—Very divergent views have been held with respect to the origin of the cells seen within uriniferous tubes. Those which occur in most conditions of inflammation or degene- ration, especially in chronic tubular nephritis, are indifferent cor- Fio. 159. °f a showing a Malpighian tuft surrounded by lymphoid corpuscles u scf.na,>f/;r0bftblyt0yr,d their way through the capillary wall. Sirnilar cor^des T^l^;,u* )«,rr2'JIldlU tubes with unaltered epithelium in its natural position the right of the figure is one tube with a homogeneous hyaline cylinder cut across. puscles or leucocytes, like those of ordinary inflammations and taken singly, are indistinguishable from pus cells. Thev have ’been regarded as derived from the renal epithelium by proliferation and hence called catarrhal cells ; or, as formed in a similar manner from connective tissue corpuscles; or finally, as white corpuscles emigrated ^rom the blood-vessels. In favour of the former hypo