821 ANKYLOSIS. The term is derived from the Greek ayKv\y, which signifies a curve of a joint, and was applied to such cases of stiff joint as remained fixed in a curve, not a straight position, which was distinguished by the term opdoKa>\ov. The process which produces ankylosis is very similar to that which unites the two ends o a fractured bone, and the union in both cases may be effected either by soft fibroid tissue, or by actual bone. For the production of ankylosis it is essential that the cartilage encrusting the articular bony surfaces should be wholly or in great part removed. When this is effected, and the conditions of the inflamed parts are such as do not tend to the production of pus, but of plastic exudation, the capillaries, which have entered the processes of false membrane from the bony surfaces, meet and anastomose together, so that the vascular systems of the two bones are in free communication, while the intervening fibrinous exudation gradually undergoes change into a dense fibroid tissue, mingled, as Kokitansky says, with an abundance of fat. If the process stop at this point, soft or fibrous ankylosis is the result. More commonly, however, under favourable conditions of perfect rest, proper food, and atten- tion to the health, the exudation undergoes change into osseous substance, so that the two bones become as it were accurately welded together. . False Ankylosis— There is a kind of ankylosis which is denomi- nated the spurious or false, most common after synovitis, and which depends on the presence of masses of exudation within the synovial capsule, with thickening of this membrane and of the ligaments. The condition of the muscles also seems to promote the fixed state of the articulation, the extensors being paralyzed and wasted, and the flexors, which exert in most instances a superior power, being contracted, shortened, and atrophied. Ankylosis of the bodies of the vertebrae has already been alluded to as the mode in which a cure takes place after caries of their structure and ulceration of the intervertebral ligaments. It is clear from this that when the destruction of these parts has been at all extensive, the avoidance of the deformity of angular curvature is impossible. Ankylosis of some of the less important joints occurs almost naturally in old age. Some rare instances are recorded in which all the joints of the body became spontaneously ankylosed. CHRONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. The chronic inflammatory nature of this affection is extremely well marked, but the essential dependence of it upon rheumatism is not demonstrated; in fact, though in an acute form it has a great resemblance to acute rheumatism, it appears to be essen-