CAUSES OF HAEMORRHAGE. G9 action (however the term may be understood), and naturally sug- i gests that of some obstruction to the circulation, with diminution of the vital energies. The surface is generally pallid, or of a dull ' venous hue, the animal heat is diminished, the anasarcous swellings I pit easily on pressure, the effect of gravity upon them is marked, : the movements are languid, the respiration often embarrassed, and t the mind depressed. One of the most common, but as we shall see, ; probably, not their immediate cause, at least in many instances, is, I beyond doubt, a mechanical impediment to the free course of the 1 blood. This was long ago proved by the well-known experiment of Lower. He tied the jugular vein of a dog, and found that all t the tissues of the head and face were infiltrated after the lapse of s some hours, not with extravasated blood, as he had rather expected, ' but with clear serum. The analogous instance of ascites resulting i from cirrhosis of the liver has been already mentioned. (Edema !has also, beyond doubt, a very close connection with the lymphatic : system; and some have gone so far as to speak of it as a lymphatic congestion. Ludwig saw reason to believe that an artificially ] produced oedema of the lip of a dog was completely emptied by t the lymphatic channels. These phenomena doubtless depend • upon the continuity of the spaces of areolar tissue with minute or capillary lymphatics. The same explanation applies to accumu- lation of fluid in serous cavities, which have been recently shown ’to stand in open communication with the lymphatics; and this may also depend upon obstructed or imperfect removal of fluid by t the lymphatics. It does not follow that in either of these cases : the fluid accumulated is precisely normal lymph, since it is more - than probable that it undergoes pathological modifications. Conditions of the Occurrence of Dropsy.—But it requires no very long pathological experience to discover that there are cases not unfrequently occurring in which, although there exist abundant causes of obstruction to the circulation, yet dropsy does not take place. Dr. Walshe, in his work on Diseases of the Lungs and Heart (page 649, 2nd ed.), has given a list of most serious diseased con- ditions of the heart which may exist without producing dropsy, and concludes justly, that something beyond all these is wanting to insure this occurrence. What, then, is this ? Andral shows, in his “ Hematologie,” that neither diminution of the globules, nor of the fibrine of the blood, is the immediate cause of dropsy, but that this always accompanies a diminution of the albumen. Ht is therefore highly probable that it is this alteration of the crasis of the blood which determines the occurrence of dropsy in : persons who are predisposed to it by organic disease of the heart or lungs, which causes congestion of the venous system. It is inot only in dropsies of cardiac origin that diminution of the albumen seems to be the most important moment* in producing condition^ leave to intr0!luce this word as a convenient term, signifying an influential