T VARIATION'S IN FIBRINE. 23 are rather deficient in firmness; it is, however, hut thin, rather transparent, and produces no “cupping.” It is mostly seen in rather asthenic conditions of the system, and from its appearance the blood which presents it is distinguished as “ sizy.” A very small, firm clot, with a more or less huffy surface, indicates a diminu- tion of the red corpuscles, and at least a relative excess of fibrine. The following circumstances * are favourable to the formation of the buffy coat:—(1.) Slowness of coagulation, which gives the red corpuscles more time to sink. (2.) Increased weight of the corpuscles, and their aggregation together into rouleaux. (3.) A diminution in the specific gravity of the serum. (4.) A great diminution in the proportionate quantity of the red corpuscles, or an increase in that of fibrine. None of these circumstances, how- ever, seem to us to account fully for the phenomenon in question ; and we are much inclined to believe, with Dr. Alison, that there exists an absolute tendency to separation between the fibrine and the corpuscles, somewhat, perhaps, of the nature of that which prevents the commixture of some dissimilar fluids. He remarks : “ 1st. That the formation of the buffy coat, though no doubt favoured or rendered more complete by slow coagulation, is often observed in cases where the coagulation is more rapid than usual; and the colouring matter is usually observed to retire from the surface of the fluid in such cases before any coagulation has com- menced. 2nd. The separation of the fibrine from the colouring matter in such cases takes place in films of blood, so thin as not to admit of a stratum of the one being laid above the other. They separate from each other laterally, and the films acquire a speckled or mottled appearance, equally characteristic of the state of the blood with the buffy coat itself.” It does not seem necessary to assume that there is any actual repulsion of the red particles from the fibrine, the tendency to separation may simply depend on the increased attraction (which is manifest) of the respective parts of each element together. The differences in textural quality, which fibrine often presents, have been admirably described by Rokitansky aDd Mr. Paget. As, however, the former seems to have altered his opinion, we omit the description he has given, though our own observation inclines us to think it is substantially correct. Professor Paget, agreeing closely with Rokitansky’s previous account, expresses the same facts more shortly and simply. His description refers, however, to fibrine, as it appears in exudations ; while that of the Gorman pathologist is expressly confined to the • Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman’s “ Physiological Anatomy,” vol. ii. p. 295. It must be remarked, however, with regard to diminished density of the serum, that Mr Gul- liver has shown that in serum rendered thicker, heavier, and more viscid, by the addi- tion of mucilage, the red corpuscles subsided not only more rapidly, but also more completely, than in serum, which was rendered thinner, lighter, and less viscid by being mixed with a saline solution. Mr. Wharton Jones—from whom we have’ in part, taken the above passage-believes that the viscid state of the liquor sanguinis promotes the subsidence of the red corpuscles, by increasing their natural tendenev to aggregate together.