732 VARICOCELE. and projecting into the testicle of a man, aged eighty-one. In this instance, the tumour—which closely simulated a chronic enlarge- ment of the testis of eight years’ duration—was removed with the testis by Mr. Pollock, at tho patient’s request, and on examination it was found to possess all tho ordinary characters of dense fibroma of other organs. Loose bodies are occasionally found in the tunica vaginalis, similar to those occurring in joints. They are, in all probability’ masses of exuded fibrine, and have, at least in the majority of cases, no claim to the epithet cartilaginous, which is often given to them on account of their external appearance. Calcareous matter is sometimes deposited in them; and Mr. Curling has observed the presence of laminae similar to those of bone. Dermoid cysts, sometimes containing besides well-formed skin with sebaceous follicles, hair and bone and teeth, are met with occasionally in the testicle, just as they are in the ovary, and they have been explained generally on Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire’s theory of‘‘foetal inclusion,” the germs of a second embryo being sup- posed to be included in the testicle of the first. But as "before stated (p. 157), and as has been remarked by Professor Humphry on this special point, “It may well be doubted whether such a process ever takes place.” * They are far more likely to be the result of departures from the natural formative processes in the testicle at a period when the developmental forces are in activity, and when morbid products are more prone to be composed of natural structures than they are when occurring at subsequent periods of life. Some of these dermoid cysts have a very complex constitution, containing several kinds of tissue, not always epidermic in character. Such growths must be called teratoid tumours. This is one of the rare situations where striated muscle has been found as a new growth. Such tumours also occur in the scrotum. Certain fibroid masses, reported by M. Jarjavayt and others as growing from the fibrous envelope, and partly invading the testicle, and partly sprouting out as a superficial form of benign fungus, are probably of an inflammatory origin, and partake of the characters of so-called “ granulation tumours.” Varicocele —Morbid dilatation of the spermatic veins constitutes varicocele, a condition so common, and, as a rule, with few exceptions, associated with symptoms so trifling, as hardly to merit the name of a disease. Caused by many conditions,—as the long and wind- ing course of the veins, their free anastomoses, and their liability to frequent compression in their course through the inguinal canal, —the enlarged veins in their turn may become a cause of some wasting of the testicle. When much dilated, and with walls thickened by the fibroid development present in most cases of * “Diseases of the Male Organs of Generation.” By G. M. Humphry, M.D., F.R.S., in Holmes’s “ System of Surgery,” 2nd edition, vol. v. p. 147. t “ Archives Generates de M6d.,” 4kine serie, t. xx.