550 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PHARYNX, or be fused with the trachea, or be dilated into a sac, or in rare instances be traversed by separate fissures. The latter condition has been called fistula colli congenita, and has been attributed to imperfect closure of the third or fourth visceral cleft. The fistula opens externally, at the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dilatation.—The pharynx and oesophagus sometimes become dilated throughout, their parietes, and especially the muscular tunic, being hypertrophied. Bokitansky alludes to one case in which the passage was large enough to admit a man’s arm. In some instances of a less degree of dilatation, the coats are relaxed and attenuated. This is sometimes a consequence of obstruction at the cardiac orifice of the stomach, but sometimes occurs without any obstruction, apparently from paralysis of the muscular walls, produced by chronic inflammation. Partial dilatation appears in the pouches, which sometimes are formed by all the coats of the canal, sometimes consist of the mucous membrane only. In the latter case, 1 ‘ the mucous membrane is protruded between the muscular fibres, and becomes dilated by the food that enters , it is at last forced out in the shape of a cylindrical appendix, which lies between the vertebral column and the oesophagus, in a line with the axis of the pharynx, so that all ingesta pass into it, and death from starvation results.” This change is chiefly seen at the lower part of the pharynx, but similar dilatations are formed lower down in the oesophagus, and are produced, according to Bokitansky, by the contraction of bronchial glands, which have formed adhesions to the wall of the oesophagus and draw a portion of it outwards. The most remarkable cases of dilatation °1 the oesophagus are, however, those in which no obstruction or other cause can be found. , ,, The oesophagus is liable to be constricted, either by the compres- sion of external growths or by cicatrices in its own walls, the results of former ulceration or sloughing, or by cancerous to» tions in its coats. A very obstinate form is the consequence ot the action of irritant or caustic substances. . , Inflammation.—Acute inflammation occasionally attacks me pharynx, or rather its mucous lining, chiefly by extension ot the disease in Cvnanche tonsillaris, or simultaneously with the fauces in Scarlatina anginosa. Sometimes the affection, though men generally less acute, is independent, and constitutes L\nanch pharvngea. Inflammation of the submucous connective tissue or cellulitis, occurs most often in children, and goes on to suppuration, forming the retropharyngeal abscess. It is sometimes connec et with caries of the vertebras, and does not then, strictly speaking, belong to the pharynx. Chronic pharyngitis is very common, espe- cially in persons of an atonic habit, or who speak much born throat. The mucous membrane appears slightly swollen, anr wi an uneven granular surface, coloured by an iiniform redness, a denuded to some extent of its investing epithelium. & m®. cases the redness is more patchy, and seems to affect m