715 DEPOSITS AND CONCRETIONS IN THE URINARY TRACT. tlie same yellow sandy material lies in the pelvis. Microscopic examination shows the straight tubes completely infarcted with the material. This deposition appears to take place after birth, especially in the first fourteen days ; and has never been found in a child actually born dead, very seldom in those who live but one day ; hence it may, in some cases, he valuable as evidence that a child has actually lived. This singular condition is found in about half the children who die between the second and fourteenth day; but is evidently transitory, and may therefore be more frequent than this proportion suggests. Similar infarctions of urates are seen occasionally in the kidneys of gouty persons, and perhaps precede the deposition of crystalline urates in the stroma, which has been already described. Calcareous infarctions are sometimes seen in the straight tubes. They are filled with granular carbonate of lime, which also encrusts the papillae. This has been seen in cases where bony parts have been rapidly absorbed, as in mollities ossium. Concretions in tlie Urinary Passages and Bladder.—The concretions or calculi which form in the pelvis of the kidney and in the bladder have so much similarity that they can be described together. Probably many calculi are first formed in the kidney, and find their way into the bladder, where they increase in size. The process by which they are formed is not a simple precipitation, since they always have a basis of animal matter which doubtless modifies the form in which the mineral matters are arranged. This animal basis appears to be some modification of albumen, or perhaps mucin. Calculi vary in size from the finest sand to that of a child’s head. The very large stones are now exceedingly rare. Some foreign body, or a blood-clot, or mass of mucus or pus, sometimes forms the nucleus. Among the largest known are one in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital, weighing twenty-five ounces, and one at Cambridge, weighing thirty-two ounces. The following are the chief classes of calculi : *— 1. Uric acid calculi are very common. Their shape is round or oval, surface smooth, or nearly so, structure composed of concen- tric la mi rue. If pure uric acid they are white, but are usually coloured yellow or pink. The size varies from the finest sand to as much as twenty-five ounces (that mentioned above). Urate of ammonia composes calculi very similar to those of uric • Perhaps the most successful attempt yet made to explain the mechanism of the production of calculi is that of Dr. Vandyke Carter, who has investigated their micros- copic structure, and finds that the forms in which the mineral salts are precipitated coincide perfectly with those in which (as shown by Mr. Rainey) similar salts are deposited in the shells of animals, and which have been reproduced artificially by the last-named investigator by mixing saline solutions with organic matters. The process termed by Mr. Rainey, its discoverer, molecular coalescence, we believe to be the key to the formation of calculi, but can only here refer to the original memoirs bearing on the subject, viz., Rainey, “On the Mode of Formation of Shells, &c.,” London 1858- V. Carter, “ On the Microscopic Structure of Urinary Calculi,” London, 1873 ■ see also Ord, “ Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science,” vol xii. new series p 219 and Harting, Ibid. p. 119, “ On the Artificial Production of Organic Calcareous Formations ”