ABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 33 course, an increased resistance to the onward flow through the . capillaries. In this instance the normal changes between the non-arterialized \ blood and the tissues could not take place, and, consequently, the Iblood could not freely pass through them. The converse of this (experiment is presented to us in the effect of cold on parts that . are exposed to it. The functions of the part are abolished, the ('circulation languishes, and at last ceases, the vessels remaining (■congested with venous blood, which is not carried onwards. Hence ? the blue or livid colour which the surface presents. In this case tthe vital power of the tissues seems to be paralyzed by the seda- ttive influence of the cold; and, as a consequence, their nutrition aand circulation are also brought to a stand. The arrest of the [pulmonary circulation in asphyxia seems very analogous to the fforegoing instance; the normal changes in the lung tissue having eceased, the blood is no longer able to traverse its capillary plexus ffreely, but stagnates there, and congests the part. Thus far we ssimply class together a number of similar phenomena, and educe fffom the circumstances common to them a kind of law, viz., that qquoted from Dr. Carpenter. But Dr. Draper has brought for- ward a view, which is extremely plausible and beautiful, and ^appears to us likely to prove of the greatest value in physiology aand pathology. It is founded on the statement “that if two lliquids communicate with one another in a capillary tube, or in sa porous or parenchymatous structure, and have for that tube or (structure different chemical affinities, movement will ensue, that !liquid which has the most energetic affinity will move with the eereatest velocity, and may even drive the other liquid entirely before it.” The essential idea appears to be this, that the on- coming liquid is attracted, particle by particle, to various points of the tissue which it traverses, that the attraction having taken place soon ceases, in consequence of an alteration being effected in the attracted fluid, and that then the particles of fluid, no longer retained or drawn to the part by attraction, are pushed on by fresh quantities of unaltered fluid, for which the tissue has attraction. Thus, in the systemic capillaries, the arterialized blood is attracted io the tissues, changed by the act of nutrition to venous, therewith .oses its capacity of being attracted, and is driven on by more urtenal blood coming up within the range of the tissue’s attraction I In the same way we may conceive an attraction to subsist between the venous blood and the air in the cells of the lung, which will, of course, cease as soon as the change from venous to arterial blood las been accomplished. The effect of this nutrition force, a term which we prefer to Dr. Carpenter’s “ capillary force,” is evidently 1 ;o promote remarkably the free transit of the blood throu gh a cart, and there can bo no doubt that the arrest or abolition ofthis orce must tend materially to obstruct the circulation. Hence in Asphyxia, the attraction probably continuing some time, but the lormal changes which liberate each particle from it not takim* D