DEGENERATIONS. 125 •wrongly said to have undergone cartilaginification, for there is no real similarity between this substance and cartilage. The white patches formed on the surface of the pericardium and in the capsule of tho liver are produced in this manner, and so is also that : thickening of the Glissonian sheaths, which give rise, in many cases, to cirrhosis. Many organs show similar changes. Thus in the heart we may find the muscular tissue replaced to a great ■extent by newly-formed fibrous (or so called “fibroid”) tissue, iLarge tracts of the lung may be converted into similar tissue in the disease called Fibroid Phthisis. Granular disease of the kidney ultimately results in a similar substitution. Since in all these cases the specialized tissue of the organs becomes replaced by one of less perfect organization, the change may be described as a degeneration. It has also been proposed to term it fibroid • substitution. The new tissue is probably formed, in part, by thickening of the pre-existent fibrous tissue which exists more or less in all organs, in part also by nuclei, developing fibres by a process similar to that which takes place in the formation of normal connective tissue, or of that produced for repair. The chief difference between induration and fibrous degeneration consists in this, that in the former, a notable quantity of blastema -is effused, which becomes the induration matter, and compresses and atrophies the adjacent texture ; in the latter there seems to be scarce any perceptible exudation, as it takes place slowly, and passes at once into the condition of fibre. Induration may affect any tissue, while fibrous degeneration is chiefly seen in membranes. Cartilage, however, is liable to a fibrous transformation of a some- what different kind, which will be hereafter noticed. Fibrous regeneration seems to be sometimes a consequence of long-con- tinued venous congestion, as seen in the liver in cases of heart iisease ; and possibly of deficient supply of arterial blood. Calcareous degeneration rarely occurs as a primary change, it .8 almost always secondary to some other. Especially it seems ~ P® consequent upon a fatty degeneration of the arteries, to which the term atheroma is applied, and which may occur at my period of life, while the calcareous change is seldom observed very extensively, except in advanced age. It is often spoken of is ossification, and, indeed, not altogether without reason, as the ! lacuaao ” characteristic of bone are found in this substance also in some cases; —for instance, according to Virchow, in the calcareous plates of arteries, where they are, however, irregularly and imnor- iectly developed. The earthy matters deposited are, principally phos- pnato of lirne and magnesia, and carbonate of lime ; Rokitansky -on miers them to be not so much new deposits as precipitations from tieir natural combinations with animal matters. Calcareous denosi tarn seems generally to take place in parts whose vitality has been considerably lowered by previous morbid processes within them Thus it is common in lymphatic glands which have been the SGat f scrofulous disease, an obsolete croupo-fibrinous deposits, in the