ULCEltATION OF TIIE STOMACH. o(36 spot where the white grains of arsenic axe attached, it is converted into a yellowish or greenish brown slough.” The tissue intervening between these solitary foci is often quite healthy. Fig. 131. ULCEKATION OF THE STOMACH. Perforating Ulcers.-Ulceration of the coats of the stomach is much less frequent than that of other portions of the intestinal caad t occurs sometimes as the result of chronic gastritis, or of the^cor- rosive action of poisons. These ulcers require no special notice but there is one particular kind which is rather peculiar to this oSan and which is of especial interest, from its occurring in tissues which otherwise appear quite healthy, and from the senou. and rapidly fatal effects to which it too often gives rise Epfa- tansky terms this the perforating gastric ulcer, on account of iff bavin" a decidedly marked tendency to perforate the panetes of thHtomach. He describes it as followsIn a ^-defined case there is, in the region of the pylorus, a circular orifice of from three to six lines in diameter with a sharp peritoneal edge, m f „»„d piece of g«»tric pastes of substance on the internal membranes of the stomach, and especially of the mucous layer, appears more consider- able, so that the edges of the hole seem bevelled off from within outwards.” ^ In some cases the margins of the ulcer are quite smooth and thin, in others thickened and in- durated. ‘‘ The pyloric bait of the stomach, ’ Eokitansky proceeds, “ is the seat of the ulcer: it is most frequently found in the middle zone ot this portion; it is oftenei seen at the posterior than at the anterior surface, almost always near to, and Ire- quently at, the lesser cur- vature ; and it occurs in extremely rare cases only at the A similar ulcer m.; form in the upper obl.que portrou rrf.be duodenum, or in the lower end ot the JJ ^ i„'te..tin»l •is observation has yet shown, in any other pait Pnual canah The size of these ulcers, ^^W^ceedin’g that of that of a cheese-plate ; we have never seen them exc Perforating' ulcer of stomach. The mucous membrane is puckered into folds round it.