CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. 429 lead to increased temperature; and doubtless has a share in the production of the hypersesthesia of inflamed mucous surfaces. The redness of a catarrhal mucous membrane varies much in tint and intensity. _ In early stages it is a bright red arterial colour but when catarrh is connected, as it often is, with venous conges- ■ tion, the tint is more nearly purple; and the latter is also more I chaiactenstic of chronic catarrh. In the acute stage, numerous small Ihhemorrhages heighten the red colour; and through the °radual \ changes, undergone by this blood pigment, we get the slaty colour or pigmentation which long-continued catarrh always produces It -is most important to remember that the redness due to mere turges- ■.cence of the vessels in the acute stage maybe quite unrecogniz- .aWe a™r heath, the vessels having emptied themselves by their Textural Changes. Swelling of the mucous membrane is a verv constant phenomenon ; it appears to depend on several causes = beside the turgeseence of the vessels. These are as follows I thmiargement ot the individual elements in consequence of more active nutrition; interstitial effusion of serum which infiltrates the i parts ; and the production of new elements. These new elements ;or young cells, are of the kind usually met with as inflam- ' :rtntrnfr^0ClLiCtS’1bemiS Ln ±act leucocTtes> ^distinguishable from . those of the blood, and showing amoeboid movements. As in other | inflammations, some doubt still hangs over the origin of these eements, and it is uncertain whether they are migratory cells hfe-alf frTihhef-blood’ °r whet}ier they are produced by pro- “"S ot the elements, viz., of the sub-mucous con- |-nechve tissue, or of the epithehal cells themselves. With respect ™tCVPif eS/ the sub-mucous connective tissue they show flb yi.tha- ?PPeara"ees regarded as indicating cell- “eZrZhn hy CbrV1S10n• The relations of the epithelial cells are more obscure. Large compound cells, inclosing in their sub- fcltSRai,1ry°iUni CeUs’ baVe rcPeatedly been observed, which Remah, Buhl, and others interpreted as mother-cells, propagating as “ the embryo, by ‘endogenous multiplication.” More lately it | was shown that large swollen epithelial cells were capable of recmy- ■ 3eftin!tht017 C<31 8 mt0 ^helli subst£mce> and that structures pre- 3entii g the appearance of endogenous proliferation might thus be , and tbe researches of Bizzozero* seem to have shown ' MV6,y |bat m certain inflammations, viz., hypopyon or sun duration m the anterior chamber of the eye, this is actimll-o-+£" ' Chf? °).what.have be,f‘n regarded as compound or “ mother-cells ” . SkPh^CtPafa^ ole™nts the production of youno- Mgi^JSSSSS” mu,t S2S not only enormously increased in quantity (for the ormal secretion of a mucous surface is extremely small in amount) Strieker’s “ Mcdizinische Jalirbuclier,” 1872, p 160.