DISEASE OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 820 disease just described, occasioning caries and deposition of cheesy matter in the cavities. “ In these cases ulceration may begin on any part of the surface, or even in the centre of the bone; but in general the first effects of it are perceptible where the intervertebral cartilage is connected with it, and in the intervertebral cartilage itself ° In other cases the vertebrae retain their natural texture and hardness, and the first indication of the disease is ulceration of one or more of the intervertebral cartilages, and ot the surfaces of bone with which they are connected.” These cases may be con- sidered analogous to those of primary ulceration of the cartilages of diarthrodial joints. “ There is still.another order of cases, but these are of more rare occurrence, m which the bodies ot the vertebral are affected with chronic inflammation, of which mceration of the intervertebral cartilages is the consequence. Io tois we have not any analogue among the more ordinary diseases ot joints, except in the scrofulous disease of joints just described. _ in whichever of these ways the disease begins if not checked in 1,3 urooress, it proceeds to the destruction of the bodies of the ver- tebrae and intervertebral cartilages, leaving the posterior parts pf the vertebrm unaffected by it; the necessary consequence of whicti is an incurvation of the spine forward, and a projection of the spinous processes posteriorly.” The chronic inflammation ot toe bones sometimes extends to the membranes of the spinal cord, and when the curvature is very great the cord maybe so comp^^ that it cannot properly discharge its functions. SuPJ^f sometimes takes place at a very early period ; at other times not until the disease has made considerable progress. The soft p-.ru, in the neighbourhood of the abscess become thickened and con- solidated, forming a thick capsule, m which the abscess biso times retained for several successive years; but fr^ which ultimately makes its way to the surface, presenting itself m one or another situation, according to circumstances. In the advanced staa-es of the disease, new bone is often deposited in uvular masses on the surface of the bodies of the neighbouMg ve^b^, and where recovery takes place, the carious surface of the verte brae above coming in contact with that of the vertebrae below , they become united with each other at first by soft substance, after wards by bony ankylosis. The disposition to ^kylosisi.n^ the same under all circumstances; it is muc e . j tex. are affected by scrofula than where they retain their natiira ^ tnre and hardness; and this explains, wherefore m the forma class of cases, a cure is effected with moie 1Vr - ■ ^)0ne the latter. Occasionally portions ot the ulcerated or carlo bo lose their vitality, and having become detached.are fomid lytog loose in the cavity of the abscess. II hen a 1 » ' , con_ formed tlie pressure of the matter on the sui a , j the tiguous vertebras may cause an extensive caries limits of the original disease.