539 TTLCEEATIOST OF THE MOUTH. aphthae. According to him, they are produced by the effusion of lymph into one of the fungiform papillae, which soon disappears by sloughing or ulceration, leaving an ulcer which continues to spread for some time. Follicular Stomatitis is described by Dr. West as sometimes idio- pathic, sometimes a concomitant of measles. In either case it is rare, after five years of age. “The mouth is hot; its mucous membrane generally of a livid red, while a coat of thin mucus covers the centre of the tongue. On the surface of the tongue, especially near its tip on the inside of the lips, the cheeks, near the angles of the mouth, and less often in other situations, also, may be seen several small, isolated, transparent vesicles, or the ulcers, which, after bursting, they leave behind. The ulcers are small, of a rounded or oval form, not very deep, but having sharply cut edges; and their surface is covered by a yellowish white, firmly- adherent slough.” “ When the ulcers are healing, no change in their aspect is observable, and they continue to the last covered by the same yellow slough, but, by degrees, they diminish in size; and seldom or never is any cicatrix observable in the situation which they occupied. ’ The vesicles form in crops, not generally containing many ; the resulting ulcers sometimes coalesce and • r cori^mious patch. The affection is sometimes complicated with herpes of the skin of the lips, and might almost be considered as a similar eruption of the mucous surface. Ulcerative Stomatitis, or Gingivitis.—This disease which com- mences in the gums, is thus described by the same observer: “The glims are red, swollen, and spongy, and their edge is covered with a •firty white or greyish pultaceous deposit; on removing this their 1 sur,ace exposed, raw and bleeding. At first only the front of the tE™ 1S ?US but as the disease advances, it creeps round the teeth to their posterior surface, and then destroying the gum, tioth in front and behind them, leaves the teeth denuded, and very 1 l00se m their sockets. _ On those parts of the lips and cheeks, how- ever, which are opposite to, and consequently in contact with, the 1 .grated gums, irregular ulcerations form, which are covered ' vV Im^aceoils pseudo-membranous deposit, similar to that 1 wmch exists on the gums themselves. Sometimes, too, deposits of se membranes take place on other parts of the inside of the mouth, the surface beneath being red, spongy, and bleeding, thou»h pt distinctly ulcerated. . . . When recovery has commenced, the isease ceases to spread; the drivelling of footid saliva diminishes, 0 V1 , > Pultaceous deposit on the gums, or on the ulcerations of o cheek lips, becomes less abundant; the ulcers themselves ^ wies8; and, finally, the gums become firm,” and slowly, and rh's ap™ Partlal relapses, regain their healthy condition. The /ease is common, rarely fatal, rarely associated with, or proceed- •ing to, gangrene. gangrene of the Mouth; Noma ; Cancer aquaticus ; Ccmcrum Oris. 6 8anor°ne of the mouth is a much less froquont, and much more