CROUPOUS AND DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. 536 inflammation. In some cases the ulcerations are attended with much inflammation and swelling of the mucous membrane and subjacent tissues, and in others they are rather of a sloughy nature, and form upon a surface dark coloured by asthenic con- gestion. TUMOURS OF THE JAW. The term Epulis* has been generally but loosely used for any tumour of the gums not supposed to be cancerous. There are several different forms. One form of Epulis is a fibrous tumour which originates in the fibrous tissue of the gums, or in the perios- teum, aud not only grows outward towards the cavity of the mouth, but also penetrates into the Haversian canals and canceUi of the bone. Its surface is generally pretty smooth, “like the gum,” or it may be rough and more or less lobulated. “ Osseous spicuke, not uncommonly shoot,” according to Hr. Tomes, “from the jaw into the tumour, and in some cases isolated nodules of bone are found in the substance.” _ The last-mentioned fact we have several times observed. Spindle-celled sarcoma or “re- current fibroid ” has also been described under the same name; and again specimens of Sir J. Paget’s “ myeloid ’’ tumours come under this head. In all these cases (as pointed out by Mr. Hawkins) the growth springs from the bone or periosteum. Polypus of the gum is a local hypertrophy of its tissue, some- times'occasioned by mechanical irritation. It shows, “ on section, fibro-cellular tissue, covered by a thick layer of epithehura, and like polypi of mucous surfaces in general, is _ distinguished by the abundance of glands. Cysts may also form in the tumour. Yascular tumours, or Angiomata, consisting essentially ot dilated vessels, sometimes appear on the gums. Mr. Tomes describes one of a bright scarlet colour, soft in texture, and easily compressed and emptied of blood, and prone to bleed on slight irritation. Cancer, almost always in the form of scirrhus occasionally attacks the gums. Its size varies usually from that of a pea iO that of a nut. It ulcerates after a time and may throw out 1UT5^S£of herpes and the pustules of variola are occasion- ally developed upon the buccal mucous membrane. CROUPOUS AND DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. These two processes are by no means clearly distinguished 'when they affect the mouth. According to Forster they are usually found successively in the same case, the simple croupous process * Etna., <■« i = upon, oiAov = the gums.