CHAPTEE XXXIV. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PLEURA. PLETXRITIS. The serous sac inclosing the lungs and serving to facilitate the movements of respiration, is more prone to morbid affections than any other serous membrane; of these, inflammation is the most frequent, and one that arrests the physician’s attention very com- monly both in the patient and in the dead subject. Some of the products of inflammation -were formerly set down to physiological causes, owing to their being frequently met with in individuals whose histories did not give evidence of pleuritic inflammation having occurred in the course of their life. Put the inference is not just, because even in severe pleurisies the symptoms are not necessarily of a character to attract the patient s attention, and most persons are familiar with the occurrence of occasional pains, of a not very enduring character, which may he accompanied by some effusion, though not of sufficient intensity to interfere with the function of respiration. The great frequency of the concur- rent inflammation of the pulmonary tissue and its investing mem- brane, has given rise to a frequent misapplication of the term, and to a variety of theories in reference to the cause of pleurisy, bo distinguished an author as Portal attempted to prove that pneu- monia was not essentially different from pleuritis; but since the more careful prosecution of morbid anatomy, and the clearer dis- tinction of symptoms during life which we owe to auscultation, no doubt exists that the two, though often associated, differ m their symptomatology as they do in their etiological and patno- logical relations. , .. , % The first stage of acute inflammation of the pleura is mannestea bv the appearances of greater or less congestion, causing a cm tude of vessels not visible in the perfectly healthy pleura to naked eye, to become filled with blood; a marked distinction ma. sometimes be observed between the venous and arterial channels, as exhibited in the different colours of the two systems. The Yes sels form an irregular network, and the more intense the m