TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE LIVER. 635 II “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiv. p. 120. larger branches of the hepatic vein were quite unaffected, and no communications, but small and inconspicuous ones, could be traced with this system of veins, nor any with the hepatic artery. The smaller tumours were enclosed in a capsule and easily separable from the surrounding tissue, being attached to small branches of the portal vein like fruits to their stalk. The larger tumours had no capsule, and were not separable from the liver tissue. * Lymphoma or Lymphatic Tumours— In cases of leuehaemia, the liver is often greatly enlarged, and contains numerous masses of lymphatic elements, such as have been already stated to occur in many oigans in this disease. These tumours are distinguished by their white colour, soft and somewhat crumbling consistency. The} are often extremely numerous and small, but sometimes toim larger masses; and sometimes there is a more general infiltration. The microscopical structure is little more than a collection of lymph corpuscles, with very little fibrous stroma or intercellular substance. Lymphadenoma— In certain cases of anosmia lymphatica, or Hodg- kin s disease (p. 425), growths and infiltrations of cytogenous tissue are met with, which are usually firmer than the purely leuchtemic tumours, from the presence of more intercellular substance; and in the forms called lymphosarcoma, by Yirchow, a greater variety of cell forms is sometimes observed.t The latter tumours are yellowish, translucent, and of firm, tough consistency . Simple fVats (unconnected with hydatids) have, in a few instances, been found. _ Dr. Bristowe has described cases of very numerous cysts in the liver, associated with a similar cystic condi- tion of the kidneys, J and Dr. Wilks speaks of similar cases. fearcomatous tumours occur not very unfrequently as secondary growths. Spindle-celled sarcoma and melanotic sarcoma have been thus observed.§ One case of primary melanotic sarcoma in he liver is recorded by Frerichs. One case of secondary myxoma observed1 reC°rded’11 and secondai7 enchondroma has also been Cancer is very frequent in the liver: it stands fourth in the list of organs thus affected, according to the Parisian registers : these show that it occurs about once in every sixteen cases of cancer Kokitansky estimates its occurrence in the liver to be much more irequent; he states “its numerical relation to carcinoma of other organs, as 1 to 5. The above statements do not, of course, refer to Pflmal7 caucer of the liver only; but include secondary cancer also. Three varieties of cancer, beside epithelioma, have been observed in the liver; colloid is extremely rare, neither Dr Payne, ‘‘Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xx. p. 203. and ^rans,P^?1* 8°?»” voL P-401; Murchison, Tbid., vol xx do 1Q9 and^ 198, pi. vu. and vm.; Wilks, “Guy’s Hospital Reports,” 1856, series8, voi. il } “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. x. p. 174. p. 2MTrteiy.‘^: Path' Soc”” vo1' =“**• P' 123 i A. Clark, Ibid., vol. xxiii.