66 CAUSES OE H.33MOEEHAGE. Choleraic diarrhoea is the extremest example of active morbid flux ; the whole blood seems to rush to the intestinal surface, and pour out its fluid part, minus the greater part of the albumen and fibrine. The gruel-like evacuations consist of water and saline matter, with some trace of albumen in solution, and a large quantity of columnar epithelium. The reaction of the fluid is alkaline. The filtering action of the intestinal membrane in this instance is very marked, and well worth noticing; it is, indeed, extraordinary that, while so rapid a rush of blood is going on to the exhaling surface the effused fluid should be so considerably altered from that which arrives thither; one would have expected it to contain at least as much albumen as the passive exudation of ascites. We would ask whether the case of choleraic diarrhcea, as well as the similar condition from drastic purgatives, do not absolutely prove the existence of a power influencing the circu- lation other than the vis a tergo of the heart, with the regulating contractility of the blood-vessels ? Does it not also demonstrate that it is this nutrition force of the tissues, as we have called it, which determines whether an hypersemia shall issue in a flux or in an inflammation, in cholera or enteritis ? In profuse salivation, arising from the administration of mercury, or other causes, we have a good instance of an active flux, from a glandular organ, although the fluid is in this case almost identical with the natural secretion. The characteristics generally of active fluxes are those of active hypersemia, which is more or less apparent according to the amount of the effused fluid; if this be con- siderable, the hypersemia is dissipated as fast as it arises. Active Dropsy.—-Active dropsies are often termed acute or febrile, and are not always easily distinguished from inflammatory effu- sions. An almost certain means of distinction is to observe whether the effused fluid is even slightly turbid with flakes of lymph or puriform corpuscles; the presence of these is decisive of the inflammatory nature, or at least of some degree of co-exist- ing inflammation. Acute anasarca affords one of the best- instances of active dropsy, the interruption of the action of the kidneys, at the same time that it deteriorates the quahty of the blood, and renders it less fit to circulate in the vessels, diminishes consider- ably the separation of fluid from it, so that from both these causes there arises a tendency to the effusion of fluid in the areolar tissue, or in other parts. The tenseness and firmness of the anasarcous swelling in many of these cases lead to the belief winch direct observation has confirmed, that the effused fluid contains some amount of fibrine, which coagulates among the elementary parts of the tissue, and makes them more dense and stiff. The same thing occurs also in dropsies of serous cavities, and has been particularly noticed by Vogel, under the name of Hydrops fibri- nosus. Most of these, however, are essentially inflammations, though of a mild type. . , ... Coagulation of Serous Effusions.—It has been shown of late years