CANCER OF THE MAMMA. 786 Scirrhus occurs in the form of a hard, lobulated tumour, im- bedded in the adipose tissue of the gland, causing adhesion to the skin, and retraction of the nipple ; it is at first somewhat movable, but soon becomes firmly adherent to the subjacent parts, in- volving more or less of the gland‘tissue, the thoracic muscles, and the adjoining lymphatic glands. Instead, however, of occurring as an isolated tumour in the first instance, it may from the com- mencement appear as an infiltration of the various structures of the part; it will in that case be ill-defined, sending out branches into the adjacent tissues, and involving in its mass the lacteal tubes and lymphatics. These be- come contracted and flattened into bands, which give a peculiar ap- pearance to this form of mammary cancer. Scirrhus is not at first accompanied by pain, hence its existence is often accidentally discovered when it has already reached the size of a marble or a pigeon’s egg. Even when quite small it is usually very hard. Ulceration of the skin in the vicinity of the nipple supervenes ; the edges of the sore are raised, everted, and puckered; a puru- lent, ichorous fluid is secreted, from a bluish-red, eroded surface, offering a faint and foetid odour; bleeding often ensues, and the patient sinks from exhaustion. Minute Characters.—The mi- nute structure of scirrhus has been already described (p. 175), the characters • of this form of cancer being chiefly derived from the breast. The cells, when undegenerated, are large, fiat, and angular, and even in very hard specimens often numerous; but are also very liable to atrophy, so That 'we may find only wasted alveoli with the remains of cells. The growth always appears to begin in the gland, but spreads beyond it by continuous infection of the surrounding tissue. We then find cancerous alveoli scattered in the neighbouring parts. Waldeyer regards these alveoli as sections of cylindrical processes spreading outwards from the glar.d, and supposes all the cellular part of the cancer to be an outgrowth from the glandular epithelium of the mamma ; others cancerous Section of a large hard turacur, f) om a woman aped sixty, im- bedded in the breast, exhibiting a pale dull greyish basis, shaded with light pink, and intersected in every direction by short wavy lines, like bundles of white fibres, which mingle together in a close irregular network. This fibrous structure is most distinct about the centre of the mass; its exterior appears more homogeneous. * The letracted nipple. (St. Barthol. Museum, xxxiv. 14.) suppose that the cancerous cells are formed out of the connective tissue passing through a stage of small-celled in Eig. 43 (p. 186). Waldeyer urjies, on tho c infiltration, as seen ges, other hand, that this