HI ABNOHMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE LABIA. Due in the first place to the irritation of foul vaginal discharge, the thin fluid exuding from these warts is apt to cause fresh warty growths to spring from the skin soiled by it. Hence the most frequent seat of these excrescences is the lower part of the vulva, the perinaeum being also a common position, and the clitoris and adjacent parts being less often affected; hut they may be met with in all parts of the external sexual apparatus. Mucous tubercles, or mucous patches, or “ plaques muquemw,'" are growths allied to warts in their nature, but differing from them in that they are only met with in patients suffering from syphilis. They commence as flat, circular, or oval elevations, of a rosy or purple colour, having a diameter of a quarter or half an inch, bathed in thin, offensive, highly contagious secretion, and situate usually about the vulva or anus, or mouth; but they may occur wherever two perspiring surfaces are in contact, or upon mucous surfaces, as the tonsils. The small patches are apt to coalesce, and form large irregular elevations, especially on the perinaeum, and they are usually so painful as to attract notice early. They are frequently present in syphilitic women, and are often almost the only signs of the disease present. Tumours.—Encysted tumours of slow growth affect the labia, and are probably due to an obstruction in the first instance, and subsequent distension of one or more of the follicular structures. They consist of a membranous envelope, containing a transparent, glairy fluid ; and only prove a source of inconvenience after they have attained a large size. Other tumours are described as occurring in the pudenda, independently of the hypertrophy resulting from chronic inflam- mation. Sir Charles Clarke has described a variety under the designation of the oozing tumour of the labium, which is chiefly characterized by a profuse discharge from the muciparous follicles. It is but slightly elevated above the skin, and has an irregularly nodulated surface. It occurs in persons advanced in life, endowed with general obesity, and in whom the labia are enlarged. Erectile and fibroid tumours are also met with in this part of the system. A remarkable specimen of the latter, successfully removed by operation, is preserved in the Royal College of Surgeons of Eng- land (No. 2,715). It weighed upwards of eleven pounds, and is six inches in diameter. It is covered with healthy skin, and consists of a pale and compact, but soft and elastic, tissue, traversed in some parts by irregular, shining fibres, and in others having several small oval cavities in it. The patient was thirty years of age, and the tumour had been growing for many years. Hypertrophy.—The vulva is also subject to enormous enlarge- ment from elephantiasis of the skin, an affection rarely wit- nessed in this country, but epidemic at Barbadoes. In this disease the labia may be so greatly hypertrophied as to reach to the knees. A less rare form of enlargement of labia and nymphm is due to an increase of the subcutaneous fat and