481 Pleural surface of a portion of spleniiiet} lung-, affected with typhoid pneumonia, from a female aged twenty-live, who died of typhoid fever. The lung closely resembled the spleen in consistency, was of a brownish red hue, interspersed with deep purple spots of an apoplectic character. FOP,MS OF PXEUMOXIA. Tho varieties of pneumonia which are spoken of by authors as differing from ordinary acute pneumonia, are all characterized’ by presenting a more asthenic and less acute type, than the ordinary form which we have just dis- cussed. The hypostatic pneu- Fig. 107. monia of Piorry, typhoid pneumonia, congestive pneu- monia the bilious and the erysipelatous form of Riverius and older writers, the senile pneumonia described by Hourmaim and Dechambre, are all forms of asthenic pneumonia, occurring in sub- jects debilitated by other ■ diseases, in whom the lungs are attacked by a low, insi- dious form of inflammation. The congestion is of a more venous character, causing a dnskv brownish violet tint; the physical law of gravita- : tion exerts a strong influence upon the blood in the thorax, and the posterior portions are predo- minantly affected ; the tissues are more friable and lacerable even J J? staoes> aud in the progress of the disease we fail to find - that evidence of plastic inflammation which accompanies ordinary J sthenic pneumonia. Much yet remains to be done with regard to . determining the actual morbific agent in many of the forms of dis- ease with which we have to deal; and when we shall have arrived at ■ a correct appreciation of the constitutional tendencies, which induce tne palpable manifestations of inflammatory action, we may hope to reconcile theory and practice more fully than has yet been done ; - we may then also explain why such various modes of treatment - are successful in combating symptoms, which to our short-sighted yision indicate the same disease, though in reality they are clue to ■ totally different causes. Thus pneumonia, occurring in a system ’-ii which there is a predominance of lactic or lithic acid, would necessarily demand different remedies from one in which an alka- nne or septic principle prevails. kth (f0S<a<‘C f>nmmonia —But to return to our legitimate sphere- ne hypostatic form of pneumonia occurs in a variety of dis- eases in which the patient is confined to the recumbent posture arid m which the system is much debilitated. Under tho name of congestive pneumonia, it has boen described by Mr. Erichsen as the most fertde source of the fatal issue of capital operations, after i i