CHRONIC LIMITED BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC PHTHISIS. 503 portions are sometimes separated from healthy lung tissue by a tolerably definite line. (Fig. 113.) At other times small masses of granulations show the gradual extension of the morbid process. The formation of cavities seems to take place by necrosis and soften- ing of masses of caseous material; attributed by some to the mutual pressure exercised by the masses of cells and inflammatory pro- ducts which choke the alveoli, by others to obstruction of vessels. Sometimes, though not generally, active suppuration takes place through the lung, and numerous small cavities are formed by a sort of purulent infiltration. ^Etiology.—This affection, though unaccompanied by miliary tubercles is evidently closely related to tubercular disease. This is sometimes shown by one lung being in the condition of caseous pneumonia, while the other contains tubercles ; or as we have seen in two or three cases, by the presence of tubercles in the pleura covering a lung affected with this disease. It has been supposed that even when no tubercles are discoverable they must neverthe- less have been present,* but we do not see sufficient reason for this supposition; at the same time it is very probable that the two affections may be due to the same cause, and may be thus spoken ot as part of the same disease ; so that if any morbid '• poison ” should ever be shown to be the cause of tubercle, that will probably be found to produce, in some cases, “ caseous pneumonia ” also. The cases we have seen have been chiefly sequelae of measles or acute bronchitis. Others are given by MM. Herard and Oornil [op. eit., pp. 498, 504). This is the disease which is a consequence of, or perhaps consti- • GS’ °ne ^orin catarrhal broncho-pneumonia. Why in one case : that affection should pass away without leaving any trace behind • 1 and ™ other cases it destroys tho lung, we do not know. Two • suppositions may, however, be made. First, that the constitution °t the patient, that is _ some structural peculiarity in his tissues is the cause of the difference; or, secondly, that there is some specific poison or morbid material contained in the blood, which ^mSes„^e bronchitis and pneumonia which constitute phthisis to differ from simple inflammations of the same kind.f CHRONIC LIMITED BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC PHTHISIS. In this which is the commonest form of phthisis, at least amotr- me non-fatal cases, the disease begins in the apex of the lun°- • is otten confined to that part, producing the well known signs in the ■ dffraoiavicular region known as those of “ early phthisis.” If wo ! a"d Oornil, “ La Phthisic Pulmonairc,” pp. 144 and 492. Paris 18B7 diffa™"?the: cntan-hal pneumonia, which is in most rases the cause of nhthisis is „ different disease from ordinary catarrhal pneumonia; whether it is not in mJ™ elements^ TT” c0""d> P?r»“P*. % a certain “ imperfection'■ oiSi .f the lung substance; this may ut least for the present be renardort «1 vofi pUe^°)n- (°PP°lzer> “ Vorlesungen iiber specielle Pathologic unf Thorapie ”