323 TUIIERCLE. The pericardium does not resemble the other serous membranes, in its relation to tubercle ; for while the meninges of the brain and the peritoneum are constantly found to be the seat of tubercular deposit, this serous sac is remarkably free from it. Louis * has only found evidence of pericarditis three times in phthisis; and he details one case in which some semi-transparent grey granulations were found under the serous lamina of the pericardium, to which he attributes the pericarditis under which the patient was labour- ing. Dr. Hope states that tubercles are sometimes developed in the false membranes of pericarditis; but neither does he himself give any positive evidence to that effect, nor have we succeeded in finding proofs of it elsewhere. In cases of general acute tuberculosis, especially in children, miliary tubercles are sometimes seen on the visceral pericardium. CARCINOMA. Carcinoma affects the pericardium more frequently than tuber- culous disease; it occurs only in connection with a general can- cerous cachexia, and a formation of similar growths in other organs ; the only variety met with is medullary carcinoma. Accord- ing to Rokitansky the cancerous mass spreads itself in the form of an infiltration of the fibrous layer of the pericardium over a large portion of its surface, and presses upon and into the tissue itself where it becomes developed into roundish or flattened or teat-like nodules. This description partly agrees with a case reported by -Ur. Leacock, m which the organ was completely surrounded by a cancerous mass, which did not, however, affect the muscular sub- stance. Malignant growth not unfrequently extends from the mediastinal glands into the pericardial cavity; but many such cases would at the present day be called sarcoma or lympho-sar- coma, rather than cancer, t Several are noticed by Dr. Peacock m the paper just referred to.f Forster observed one case of pri- mitive cancer of the pericardium. A malignant growth of the peri- cardium, reported by Dr. Moxon, was found to be, anatomically asarcowa.§ A fibroid tumour of the pericardium is noticed by Dr thambers.il In some of these cases the morbid growth may oven infiltrate the walls of the heart, from the pericardial surface and project into the cavities. ’ “ Memoirc sur la Pdricardite,” &e., 182G. t in “Trails. Path. Soe.,” 18GH, vol. xx. p 102 S 18H6> v<>1- xvi IT' 99-120, and plate v. rans. Pal h. Hoc.,” 1867, vol. xviii. p. 38 ; Report, hv Hulke and Pm-l,.,. - ,, „ 7“ Medto V,,'ranH' ^ p Hoc”,v«‘-ix- P W. lor another CMtn P'4’’ fl*»- » aledico-Glnrurgieal Review,” October, 1b58.