abnormal conditions of the spleen. GoG ground to believe that under careful management they do not necessarily prove fatal. Spontaneous ruptures of the spleen have also occurred in conditions of intense congestion, and when the texture of the organ was probably weakened, as in typhus, cholera and the cold stage of ague. These always prove fatal. ..uch accidents suggest the prudence of handling the abdomens of fever Prim„y inflammation ot tbe.pleen,” E*tan- sky says, “ is as rare as spontaneous primary phlebitis ; ^comlarv Ly»»t aa secondary phlebitis.” Primary ^ spleen, unless ending in resolution, gives rise to the production of laudable pus or fibnne. The pus may be contained m a circum- scribed abscess, and thence become obsolete, or ‘fw^thoTadc on enlarging until the abscess makes its way into the left thoracic cavity the°stomach, the transverse colon or the peritoneum When the latter event happens, circumscribed peritonitis often forms a sac for the pus with the aid of the suiroundm0 parts. The causes and pathology of spontaneous splenitis are very obscure. The secondary splenitis of Rokitansky seems to be identical with pveemic abscess. The deposits are well defined, always situated at tfi^periphery, usually of a cuneiform shape the apex directed Swards ; their colour is considerably darker than the Bnrroundmg tissue and their consistence firmer. A ring of reactive lnflamm tion is often set Up around them. The process may (according to Rokitansky and Forster) terminate either in the case of a beDio- nant fibrinous exudation in conversion ofttosintoa c^£fibr callus which contracts and causes a cicatiix on the surface, or thecase of a less healthy exudation in the conversion of this into flSm, c»amy mi, or into,* cantons, greemsb, greemsb- brown, or chocolate-coloured pulp. oi'm-nle or The pvmmic blocks have much resemblance to the simple or fibr ino ns blocks, and have doubtless often been confounded^ them, while the actual heabng of pymmic abscess.3S^°u01i de- scribed by good authorities, seems open to doubt. blocks, or Secondary abscesses, seem to drflerJiomi J J « blocks in their rapid suppuration, irregular shape, and. m toe>co S inflammation of the capsule nhen fc,are Hemorrhagic Infarctions or Fibrinous A/oc/^.-Thebiock,o factions of the spleen are among the most teristic morbid appearancesn°tAts°,^s lained before, their form no further anastomosis one mth anoth<er, . Yeins hlocked up the circulation cannot he restored, a 1 • JXisr piXV> a «u be «u-t