843 MOLLITIES 0SSIU1T. while their -weight is not much diminished, and they become flexi- ble, like wax; in the second, the bones present a snowy whiteness, and a light, transparent, open texture, rendering the bones so fragile that they give way under the mere pressure of the finger. The first kind of bones do not dry clean, but remain greasy, the second dry quickly, and give no greasy feel. Both varieties, according to Kilian, exert the same influence upon the pelvis in regard to the distortions that are produced. These he describes as consisting in angular deflections of the individual bones, and a mutual approximation of the bones in the conjugate and transverse diameters. If Professor Kilian’s view regarding the two species of the malady be correct, it is probable that they would be distin- guished by their chemical constitution, and this may be assumed as the reason why the chemical analyses of the bones affected with osteomalacia have yielded results so widely apart. Thus, in one of the two remarkable cases del ailed by Mr. Solly,* the analysis of the affected bone by Dr. Leeson showed 100 parts to contain— Animal matter. ..... 18-75 Phosphate and carbonate of lime . . 29-17 Water 52-08 100-00 The chemical examination of a case (detailed by Dr. Eamsbotham, in the “Reports of the Pathological Society”)! by Dr. Garrod, yielded— Patty matter 20-35 Gelatine yielding matter. . . . 58-37 Carbonate and phosphate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia . . .21-28 100-00 In the former analysis, we see nearly eight parts more earthy matter than in the latter; nor can it be objected that the analyses were made at different stages of the disease, because, in both instances, the patients from whom the specimens were taken had succumbed to the malady. The analysis given by Dr. Bostock reduces the amount of earthy matter to a yet lower figure. In a specimen that he examined, lie found the proportion to be, in 100 parts of bone— Jelly and oil ..... 22-5 Cartilage ! 57-25 Earthy matter 20-25 The microscopical appoaranco of the bone, according to Rind - * “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxvii. p. 435. t “ Reports,” &c., vol. xxv. 1847-4S.