ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF THE BLADDER. 704 Cysts, containing a glutinous or hard (colloid ?) matter, about the size of millet seeds or peas, are occasionally found developed under the mucous membrane of the urinary passages. Tubercle. —Rokitansky states that this “ is always a symptom of i tubercular disease, that has spread from the male genitals to the j urinary organs.” We think some cases recorded in the “ Tran sac- I tions of the Pathological Society,” and some that we have seen | ourselves, show that this is by no means necessarily the case. It is most frequent in the ureters when the kidneys are involved at i the same time, but we have seen it in them when the kidneys were i healthy. Usually there exists at the same time tuberculosis of some important organ, as of the lungs or the hip joint. The deposit takes place in the submucous tissue, and forms, when its progress is chronic, grey granulations, which become yellow, soften, “and give rise to small circular ulcers.” When the disease is more acute, larger patches of deposit are formed, or “ the mucous membrane becomes infiltrated throughout with the tubercular product of inflammation, which is at once detached as a cheesy, purulent mass.” Cancer but rarely attacks the urinary passages, and hardly ever, except it is elsewhere in process of development. The disease may extend to them from the kidney, from the lumbar glands, or from the bladder, either when it is itself primarily affected, or involved in uterine cancer. Cases of villous tumours, perhaps cancer, and certainly primary, of the pelvis of the kidney, resembling villous disease of the bladder, have been recorded. (“ Path. Trans.,” xxi. 239 and 241.) Parasites.—Strongylus gigas (p. 213) inhabits the pelvis of the kidney, or stretches into the ureter, and causes "wasting of tho j kidney. Distoma hcematobium (p. 214) inhabits the renal vessels, and its eggs are discharged by ulceration into the urinary passages, producing hrematuria and albuminuria. Stricture of the ureters, and hydronephrosis may also result, and even calculus. ANOMAEOUS CONDITIONS OF THE BLADDER. This receptacle is subject to various congenital malformations, o which we shall only mention a few. The first is termed inversion or prolapsus of the bladder, and results from a defect in the kwer part of the abdominal parietes, with corresponding defect of the anterior wall of the genito-urinary canal. There appears m e hypogastrium “ a red, mucous, dilated prominence, the edges ot which join with the common integument; in the male sex it passes downwards, so as to terminate in the fissure of the urethra .in female it is surrounded by two diverging tumours, which represen the labia, and it terminates in the lamina of the general integu- ment which invests the rim a vulvse.” The symphysis pnbis is wanting; a vestige only of the umbilicus is sometimes seen a