70 j ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF THE BLADDER. upper part of the tumour. The openings of the ureters are seen at the lower and lateral parts of this mucous surface, which is, of course, the posterior wall of the bladder. In a case which we saw recently, the penis was very short, and the canal of the urethra open above in its whole length. In less severe cases the abdo- minal wall only is deficient, the bladder being perfectly closed, and appearing as a red tumour—Ectopia vesica. Slighter degrees of the same defect occur. The second malformation is attended witli fissure of the opposite side of the bladder, and of the adjacent cavities, so that a kind of cloaca is formed, similar to that which exists in the lower animals. In some rare cases the urachus remains pervious, so that when urine is passed it escapes at the umbilicus. In others, again, the bladder has no external opening, the communication with the urethra is not formed. Dilatation of the bladder is no uncommon occurrence, and mav be occasioned either by paralysis of the muscular tunic, or by some obstacle to the outflow of the urine, as stricture of the urethra. We think that the amount of dilatation is greatest when the muscular coat is paralyzed, and that in the other class of cases vthere some obstruction exists, the great hypertrophy of the muscular fibres which is induced prevents the distension becoming so great. Rokitansky, however, seems to consider obstruction as the most powerful cause of dilatation of the bladder. The effect of the stronger contractile coat of the bladder in preventing dilata- tion is shown in some cases recorded in the Transactions of the -Pathological Society, in which it is mentioned that the ureters were much distended, while the bladder was contracted, or not diiated. The bladder may be so dilated as to rise above tie umbilicus considerably, and to contain twenty pints of urine. The ; paralytic dilatation depends, we believe, in some cases, on fatty degeneration of the muscular coat. This dilatation may be congenital, and so extreme as to be an ! obstacle to birth. Diverticula, or partial dilatations of the b adder, are not infrequent. They are always found in cases in winch the muscular tunic is hypertrophied, and seem to be pro- duced by protrusions of the mucous membrane taking place between the fasciculi, which are subsequently pushed outwards more and more by the pressure of the urine. The lateral portions the posterior surface, or the neighbourhood of the fundus are the situations in which diverticula usually form. They have no muscular tunic, except, occasionally, a few scattered fibres, which t rtokitansky suggests may be some evidence of their bein<* con- -gemtal. Calculi get into these pouches sometimes, and become so ■lodged and concealed as to escape detection by the sound. CeafmchVm of the bladder most often is rather apparent than real, and depends on irritation of the mucous lining, with hyper- trophy of the muscular coat. Sometimes it is partial, or max- cause a kind of hour-glass constriction of the cavity. When j ■calculus is present, the walls are sometimes found closely