450 ULCERATION OF TIIE BRONCHI. 5 “Trans. Path. Sou.” vol. x. p. 69. quite unaltered. It has, therefore, been urged by Dr. Bristowe* j that in some cases the exudation is not produced by tne mucous membrane, but coagulablo material effused into tbe air-cellr* finds its way into the smaller bronchial tubes, and is there moulded into the shape in which it is found. The material is certainly identical with that which fills the air-vesicles in pneumonia. We mav repeat that we have seen small casts terminated by a rough mould I of the alveolar spaces, such as is seen in pneumonia. More- over, in the latter complaint it is not unusual to find small masses of lymph prolonged into the bronchial tubes for the distance of. half or a quarter of an inch. This explanation is therefore ex- tremely plausible in those cases in which the fibrinous bronchial casts accompany pneumonia. The casts are chiefly found in the. smaller bronchi, up to those as large as a quill; and then extend continuously into the smaller ramifications. Numerous cases ot this affection are recorded in the Transactions of the Pathological Society.t They cannot always be clearly separated from laryngeal, or tracheal croup extending to the bronchi. Diphtheria sometimes attacks the bronchial mucous membrane; but so far as is yet known, only subsequently to the same disease* in the larynx and trachea. A case of this kind is recorded by Dr. Murchison! in which the larynx, trachea, and bronchi, down to. their fine ramifications, were lined with a thick false membrane,:- forming a perfect cast of these tubes, but easily detached from the subjacent membrane, which was intensely injected. The lafre membrane was everywhere made up of altered epithelial cells vm- out any fibrillated structured In a very similar case, described as croup, but in which there were false membranes on the tonsils,- the false membranes extended m part of the lung to the finret bronchi, starting with the larynx and trachea. || M e have lately seen a perfectly analogous case, in which the clinical symptom; were those of diphtheria. ULCERATION OF THE BRONCHI. Simple inflammation of the bronchi without any specific cha racter may undoubtedly lead to ulceration. The “ catarrhal ulcer thus formed are small, shallow, and confined to the epitkena structures. Deep ulceration extending to the submucous tissue, o still deeper, also occurs ; but this, as m the larynx and trachea i mainly a concomitant of phthisis. It has been observed by fev authors, probably on account of the care requisite in the examrna tion, to discover an abrasion in these parts. Louis, who examine- : :.‘S: Path. Soc.” vol. (statistics) vol. vi. pp. 59, 68; vol.vii. pp.54,N vol -xvi. p. 48; vol- xvn. p 29; vol. xxi. p. 64. 1 - •—of croup-