CESTOID PARASITES. 217 Ttenia polimn. Head and joint.-!. (Owen’s Lectures.) required for the development of the cysticercus is two months and a-hali.; the duration ot its .life is said to be from three to six years. Alter the death of the animal the body collapses and degenerates more or less completely, while calcareous deposition at the same time takes place, so that there remains at last only a chalky mass surrounded by a fibrous cyst. The taenia solium is a native ot Britain, Holland, Fia. 50. Germany, Egypt, and the Levant. Taenia mediocanellata, the hookless tapeworm, con- siderably exceeds t tenia solium in all its dimen- sions, but especially in the width, even immature seg- ! ments sometimes measur- ' ing half an inch across, and ' the width does not diminish : so rapidly towards the head. The head is without r rostellum or hooks, but : has four large and distinct - sucking discs. The uterus ““Plated than that of the species just described, pos- I lfcgfd ble the aJlUmber 01 lateral branches. The cystic or m 01 ?V8 80™ewliat smaller than cysticercus cellulosse, and of , orcans U mbabits tho muscles, head, and other hepnmm*fli ’*Td haS n6Yei’ been found in man. This species -has been more lately recognized than T. solium, but appears to be n this country equally common. It doubtless finds its way into Wmv“l0rgT?1Sm tu'0lloh the eating of imperfectly cooked i.1 is regarded by Dr. Cobbold as especially in- who IvfchSy ^po;^1111111 “ m°re C°mm°n am°ng tbe P°°r’ (J’Znl'a a small tapeworm, seldom exceeding a of whicb° tlfU imfh m Cn!gtb ; 1oomP°sed of three or f°ur segments i n kst e.xc®eds m lcnbpth all the rest of the organism, fimr? f 1 ^aS a, P°mted rostellum with thirty or forty hooks and four lateral,suckers. Tho strobile form lives gregariously in the testincs of dogs, but has never been found in man (see IV 51 ) known bH-Eo 0fit UiS tapeworm is much more important, being aLhal v^h\‘,narV l?dy U-ndor tbo1?amGS °f hydatids, echinococci, is hke lw nf 5.°' flher° 18 n0 fi°ubt tbat tbe carly development of T eXtn °lhcr r?108 of tenia’ Tho six-hooked embryo H, A ecmnococcus, by whatever means it may find its wav into wallsaX<Tt u Tr °nCQ tbere bores its waY through the luTi , * establishes itself most commonly in the liver thmmb “*° a other organs; whothcr it i, carried about tSugHie