800 THE FOETUS. The foetus is liable to become the seat of morbid processes at every stage of its development and in every tissue and degree : giving rise, at the earlier period of its existence, to an entire destruction of the formative nisus, or to partial arrests of develop- ment in individual parts, some of which we have had occasion to allude to in speaking of the malformations of different organs;— inducing in its later intra-uterine existence phenomena of disease resembling those met with in the human being after birth. It remains for future inquirers to determine more accurately, not only the exact pathological character of the different lesions, but also the primary or secondary relation borne between the morbid states of the placenta and the foetus. Many of the masses that have passed under the name of moles have originated in a blight of the ovum; “ the embryo,” as Dr. Ashwell describes it, “having died early, the ovum has increased in size and solidity, not by a process of growth, as in natural pregnancy, but by the effusion of coagu- lable lymph from inflammation of the lining membrane. This forms successive layers over the surface of the dead ovum, giving it, eventually, a great degree of consolidation. Some of these masses exhibit no cavity, but the chorion and the amnion are demonstrable, although the enveloping lymph may be one or two inches in thickness.” Every organ and tissue of the fcetal body may become the seat of atrophy or hypertrophy; the latter may be characterized as actual excess of one or more organs, as we often meet with in the pha- langes. Numerous distortions, curvatures, even fractures, and other solutions of continuity.* demand the attention of the medical man immediately after the child s birth. Atrophic con- ditions are, generally, referable to diseased states of the placenta, which interfere with the nutrition of the child, and cause it to perish, or merely prevent its normal development. Cases are recorded in which such atrophic foetuses have been borne the lull period; though their death has taken place early in piegnancy, these, as Dr. Montgomery t remarks, illustrate the necessity of carefully examining into the state of the tcetal appendage^, a*> -o their healthy condition or otherwise, before we venture to pro- nounce an opinion on the time that has elapsed since conception, merely from the size and general appearance of an ovum or foetus shown us. .... The curvatures that the foetus is most commonly subject to ar , those of the lower extremities—these, as well as the dislocations o the astragalus, the elbow, and other parts that frequently come under the notice of a surgeon, are attributed to violent contrac » See n remarkable case that was brought before the Medico-Clururg^ ' • jfr. T D. Jones. “Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxxii. p. 69. . t Art. “ Foetus,” in Ur. Todd’s “ Cyolopdieiu of Anatomy and Ph\ siulo^y.