ATELECTASIS PULM0XU1I. 466 ■which we have attributed mainly to a mechanical defect, has been explained by French writers, who have termed it carnification, as the result of pneumonia; but although pneumonia may supervene in an atelectatic lung, the characters of the two diseases are suffi- ciently distinct to be discriminated on a careful examination. Acquired Atelectasis or Collapse,—Another form of atelectasis, which Bailly and Legendre first pointed out, and which has been well illustrated by Dr. West, is that which occurs after respiration has once been fairly established, and is the result of an interference with the mechanism of respiration. It is this form more particularly which Yalleix, and Rilliet and Barthez, under the term of cannii- cation, have attributed to lobular pneumonia ; the affection being limited to a single lobule or to a cluster, forming a hard, compact mass, surrounded by the normal tissue. "When the affected part is inflated the vesicles distend, and thus show that there is no inflam- matory effusion. Since this change is commonly found along with lobular pneumonia, and the latter disease is said to become deve- loped more especially in the collapsed portions of lung, the distinc- tion is sometimes difficult. In a child, whose case is related by Dr. West, there was no evidence of disease until the age of nine months, although she had not thriven well, and had become pigeon- breasted. She then lost flesh rapidly, and began to cough without j having had any previous catarrh. Her case seemed to be one ol bronchial phthisis. Four days before death she became suddenly oppressed, and the cough more severe; the dyspnma increased, while the cough became less frequent. A few hours before death the lips were quite livid, she breathed from eighty to eighty-six times a minute; the abdominal muscles acting most violently, but the chest being scarcely at all expanded. No tubercle was t°und in any organ after death, but large portions of both lungs presented the undilated condition, which disappeared entirely on inflation, the bronchi were pale, and contained very little mucus : the light f side of the heart was greatly distended with coagulated blood, which its thin, pale, and flaccid substance had evidently been M