NEW GROWTHS IN THE KIDNEY. G98 often confined to the urinary organs. The process always begins in the pelvis and calyces, and is sometimes combined with similar disease of the ureters, or bladder. The kidneys are then found either of the normal size or enlarged; sometimes considerably; the surface is usually smooth, but may occasionally show yellow patches or granulations, from the extension of the tubercular disease. On section, larger or smaller portions of the gland, especially near the calyces, are seen transformed into yellow crumbling caseous matter, with some yellow granulations of the same material. Grey miliary tubercles are rarely seen, if ever. The calyces and usually the pelvis also are found covered with an investment of similar soft, yellow, cheesy material, and are dilated sometimes very considerably, and extend at the sides of the cones nearer to the surface, so that the same appearance is produced as is shown in Pig. 167. Sometimes, according to Forster, there is a contraction of these spaces. The next stage is that of softening; cavities opening into the calyces appear to be formed, as in the lungs, by a combination of inflammation with necrosis, and dis- charge into the urinary passages the so-called “scrofulous pus,” which may sometimes be traced in the urine. The process mean- while extends towards the cortex, till a considerable portion of the organ may be destroyed, and the shape becomes very irregular. Usually both kidneys are affected. The termination of the pro- cess is by some pathologists supposed to be such a kidney as represented in Fig. 166, converted into cysts filled with white putty-like matter; but it appears that may be the consequence of simple pyelitis. With regard to the minute anatomy, Forster states that there is tubercle present, and that it is, as in the miliary7 form, wholly inter- stitial. Without being able precisely to confirm or contradict this statement, we must say that the tubes are always seriously impli- cated, their epithelium granular, and disintegrated ; their- cavities containing pus cells and hyaline cylinders. It must then be left to future research to determine whether the destruction of the organ is ever due solely to a degenerative scrofulous inflammation, or whether tubercles are always present from the first. Lymphatic Tumours.—In cases of leuchsemia, tumours of this kind, are not unfrequently formed in the kidney as in other organs. They form either distinct whitish soft masses, sometimes _ pro- jecting on the surface, or else a diffuse infiltration, producing a mottled appearance. The minute structure is represented in Fig. 165. Masses of lymphoid corpuscles are seen interspersed between the tubes, forming an interstitial infiltration, something like the nucleated tissue in granular contracted kidney, but differing in the slightly larger size of the elements and in the entire immunity of the tubes, which look perfectly normal. These masses are not liable to caseation and softening, like tubercle. In anoemia lymphatica, or cases of adenoid or lymphatic growths without leuchacmia, similar products are seen. Discrete tumours