NEW GROWTH OP BONE. 143 large size; one instance, however, is recorded, in which the tumour weighed nine pounds and a half. It is subject to several kinds of metamorphosis; the cells may become fatty or calcified, and the basis-substance fibrous or granular, as in normal cartilage ; or the whole may become calcified ; or there may be, though this is not very frequent, a formation of true hone. Finally, the cartilage may undergo softening, a change due to mucous trans- formation of the basis-substance and fatty degeneration of the cells; the substance becomes gelatinous, honey-like, or pulpy, or may completely liquefy, and in this way cavities may be produced, and a truly cystic enchondroma result. If the tumour be near the surface there may be softening, leading to ulceration. The combination of enchondroma with some other form of tumour is not uncommon. In or near the salivary glands, especially the parotid, tumours have often been described, which are in part truly cartilaginous, in part composed of the mucous tissue described above under the head of myxoma. They are distinguished from cases of simple softening of the cartilage by the form and arrange- ment of the cells. Such tumours may "be called enchondroma myxomatodes. In this situation glandular or true adenoid struc- tm-e may also be found. Combinations of enchondroma with hpoma, with sarcoma and with true cancer, have also been described. Cartilaginous tumours were at one time thought to be without exception perfectly innocent; but, nevertheless, a few instances have been observed where a primary enchondroma was followed by metastatic growths in internal organs, especially the luugs. in some instances, as in the classical case of Sir j. Paget,* it is clear that the secondary tumours were produced by particles ot the primary growth carried to the lungs by the circulation; but there is no proof that this is always the case.f A cartilaginous tumour has also been observed to extend itself by immediate injection from bone to soft parts, spreading along the connective tissue. \ On the other hand, they have very rarely been observed to recur when once removed. From these facts the conclusion is that a cartilaginous tumour may be malignant, though the probabilities are very much against it. They do not produce any special cachexia, and produce inconvenience only by mechanical pressure, unless there should be ulceration, with profuse discharge. V.—NEW GROWTH OE BONE; OSSEOUS TUMOURS; OSTEOMA. The pathological production of bone may be a hypertrophy of pre-existing bone, in the regeneration of bone which has been destroyed; or a transformation of other tissues, especially carti- * “Med. Chir. Trans.,’’ xxxviii., 1SG5. r For other cases, see Virchow, “Die Krankhaften >-7. Also Virchow and Hirsch, “ Jahresbericht der Tnl-1 , p. 184. % Virchow. “Die Krank. Geichw.,” vol. i., p. 490. Geschwtllste.” vol. i., p, 499 H Gesammten Medicin. Itlr 1899,"