ULCERATION OE THE STOMACH. OUi a half-crown. Their form is commonly circular, at least in the outset, though they often become elliptical or quite irregular as they extend. Sometimes the ulcer enlarges in its transverse diameters, so as to obtain a zonular form. Sometimes two ulcers coalesce together more or less completely. “ In the majority of cases there is only a single ulcer,” (there is no mention'of more than a single one in three cases which are recorded consecutively in the Report of the Pathological Society for ] 847-48,) “but frequently Jiere are two or three, occasionally four or five, and these are theii commonly placed above or near to one another at the posterior suirace ot the stomach, or at the lesser curvature.” When the ulcer is perfectly circular, the narrowing of its area, as it extends in depth is very marked, the muscular coat is less extensively de- ^ S the mucous, and the peritoneum again less exten- sively than the muscular, the perforation, in fact, taking place as Rokitansky describes it, in the centre of the included circle. The exact nature of the process by which the ulceration commences has not yet been the subject of direct observation Cm of Ptrfw-atim, Ulcer.-The origin of these ulcers has been explained in various ways; the most important element in their causation must, however, be the corrosive action of the gastric fluid, since they are found only in parts which are exposed to its but°it ^> stomach and adjacent parts of the intestinal canal- the now fhe Shr°Wn r°W th° tlssues> which commonly pos- sess o power of resisting digestion, are in this case affected by thm piocess. It has been shown by physiologists that the nWf nLtyo?b8t?rtitR1lf iS ”ot 4&ed, fs the circulatio^bi blood If L°a th,y, b 00<1’ accordm£ to some, of alkaline ,If tbo circulation is interrupted this immunity is lost and nrol?LltrL ^T168 b“0ffle llable tw digestion; and it is rendered alw vl n,by °bs®[va*lon> that limited stasis, or stagnation of blood orwli n -fl formation of such an ulcer; a dark red, brown’ comol rk Spu W"nr- (acc°rdmg to Forster) produced, which be- .nes necrotic, and is corroded by the gastric fluid. The stasis or or be ihe^LpoCUr m r C<T'S° of 81mPle catarrhal inflammation the consequence ot extreme venous hypercenria in cases of obstniction m the gastric or portal veins ; or" again as shown bv branch^ TH CaUSod by thrombosis or embolism of a small arterial The ■ni.n r Si “amwhich of these causes is the commonest of 1)' u° ulceration ofton corresponds to the distribution of one 11 kTmU nrtcrkl-twi** i -obrthsle™, omboli.m or tW observe i ! ln 11'are instances, been observed. AVe have twice but fh;d a/tc‘nes obstructed by a clot in the floor of gastric ulcers • beemSrhage iTr't t0 8p°fntaneous arrest of tionq mtv ° p •Ur ^°P^anci etato8, and some of our own observe neerflo confirmatory, “that this affection is most frequent