CROUPOUS AND DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. 537 passing into a necrotic or gangrenous form, which is diphtheria. Ordinary croup or stomatitis pseudo-membranacea is characterized by redness and swelling of the mucous membrane, followed by the formation (often very rapid) of yellowish or ash-coloured false membranes, which may attain a considerable thickness in the angle between the gums and the cheeks, or under the tongue. At first they are firmly attached, but soon become looser, and when removed, leave an injected, but not ulcerated surface. This may occur in limited patches or over a wide area. It may stop short at this stage or go on to a form more resembling diphtheria. This - disease may, it is said, be produced by local irritation, but is more commonly an extension of pharyngeal croup, or else the ac- companiment of some specific disease, such as measles, scarlatina, : erysipelas, &c. True diphtheria of the mouth is probably always a c manifestation of the constitutional infectious disease thus named, and may accordingly be transmitted by direct contagion. In its early stages it resembles the process just described, but the false membranes when removed, leave an excoriated surface which may be decidedly ulcerated, the whole epithelium being destroyed. . the colour of the exudation, which is naturally whitish, is often rendered darker by sanguineous effusion saturating it; when this sis the case its aspect, and the extreme fcetor which it exhales, ,:£i!v.e t° **• & considerable resemblance to a gangrenous slough, his resemblance is increased if the exudation be situated, as it sometimes is, beneath, and not upon the layer of epithelium. in such cases the process extending more deeply causes necrosis or gangrenous destruction of the whole thickness of the mucous -membrane, and even submucous tissue. The gums themselves Wtimately degenerate into a bad-looking, pulpy, sanious mass, amt the mucous membrane of the cheeks and fauces, underneath he exudations, is equally found converted into a friable, fetid ii f?’ r°r a fani! ■ sbmgh. The slough which separates then con- tls;su,° a3 as false membrane; and in some cases, hour. ( Pataena the throat, deeper parts, such as periosteum and [pf. e affected. If recovery take place, formidable scars are ]pJr, 7?ch may cause much injury by their contraction. Actual „ !“C!lve or„ necrotic processes are in fact, as before stated, ilw ‘n,g °f ■‘)lmilar affections of the throat, the only positive ildinm qHu mar^8 ofdiphtheria. Vegetable parasites, such as Of f)d r a.ns’ are °ft©n found in the gangrenous masses. iJBidemio r!ilmCal fuat1ul'os of the disease, we can only say that the veil Lr ° ‘K ynalulu character of the above described process is now enfi,.,i . Andral, writing more than twenty years ago, con- irst in JustlJ7 that tho congestion of the part affected, though he fli9p„ ■’ Was b,ut secondary in regard to causal agency: and aL°7 alwN” dred “4 iurim, tR ^ndral montions that blistered and all denuded surfaces cembl'anes^like^bo06 ,?Pltb>mics’ become covered with false ]lke those which form on mucous surfaces. Wounds