PULMONARY HAEMORRHAGE. 473 comparatively healthy, both in colour and consistency. The only interruption to the uniform colo ur that is met with is that caused by the divided bronchules, which are less dark than the surround- ing parts ; the more recent the haemorrhage, the more defined the outline. The breathing capacity of the part is entirely destroyed ; it contains no air, and when scraped, only yields a dark, thick, bloody fluid, in which the microscope detects nothing but blood corpuscles and some pulmonary debris. If the margins of the clot be scraped and examined, we may find exudation corpuscles, varying in size from •j&x. 0f an inch, showing that some inflamma- tion is going on. The most important point to be noticed with respect to these hremorrhagic masses, is that the whole arterial and capillary vascular system of the part is distended with stagnant and coagu- lated blood. The capillaries are in the condition of thrombosis, and the branch of the pulmonary artery distributed to the part is always found also blocked with a clot. This clot usually fills the vessel completely, ends abruptly towards the heart, but may be traced in the other direction into all the smaller branches. The surface is usually white and granular, like that of a clot which has sojourned long in a vessel, and the centre is sometimes crumblin°', decolorized, or even softened. Very often the clot is heterogeneous in its composition, appearing to be made up of masses of different date. There is little doubt that the condition of the hemorrhagic block is connected with the blocking up of the arterial branch ; for, as previously shown (p. 397), the plugging of a terminal artery and distension of the capillaries (which are supplied by regurgitation 10m the veins) cause first great fulness, and ultimately hsemor- lhage. It is only occasionally, and that in cases where a very large arterial branch is stopped up, that gangrene occurs. It has been supposed that in such cases the bronchial artery also is obstructed: but this cannot be proved. While it is generally admitted that the stopping up of the blood current m the artery will produce stagnation and thrombosis in me capillaries, opinions differ as to the immediate cause of the clocking of the artery. Some regard it as a thrombosis, others as an embolism. In support of both views is urged the fact mat coagulation in branches of the pulmonary artery is always accompanied by coagulation elsewhere, either in the heart, espe- cially in the right auricle, or in the veins, or both. It is urged oy the advocates of thrombosis that the same causes which effect coagulation in the heart or in the veins may effect it also in the pulmonary artery. Those who attribute the phenomena to em- ponsm beli°ve that fragments of clot are washed from the ri°-ht srne of the heart, or from some vein, into the pulmonary circulation comfem dme y pl'0babl° tbat m many cases tho two Processes are From what has been said, it is clear that arrest of circulation a part of tho lunS> *rom whatever cause, may produce hiemor-