VARIETIES OF SARCOMA. 170 ance may prevail even from the first. If examined some time after death a distinct “juice ” may be obtained by scraping, which is composed of cells set free by incipient decay. It would be rash to say that this juice is never seen in recently extirpated tumours. The colour depends principally upon the greater or less amount of vascular supply. These tumours show a greater tendency than spindle-celled sarcomata to softening and ulceration; cavities con- taining milky liquefied portions often occurring in them. Their most frequent situation is in the central organs of the nervous system, but they may occur in almost any part. Clinical character.—They are very likely to recur after removal, to affect neighbouring organs by contiguity, and more frequently than any other form of sarcoma to produce secondary growths in the internal organs. They may thus often deserve the name of malignant, but, nevertheless, the prognosis will on the average be more favourable for a tumour of this description than for one having the anatomical characters of cancer, to be hereafter described. Alveolar Sarcoma.—Tumours are sometimes met with having the clearly marked alveolar structure, which will be described below as characteristic of cancer ; but in which the cells have no pronounced epithelial character. Considering that this form of growth is some- times found continuous with true sarcoma; that it may arise from connective tissue, and that its cells have an indefinite character, some writers (as Billroth) regard them as sarcomata. Others again would call them “ connective-tissue cancers; ” and in the classifica- tion here adopted they must necessarily come under the head Cancer. Myeloid Sarcoma; Myeloid Tumour; Sarcoma with Gigantic Cells.— In all forms of sarcoma, as above defined, there are occasionally found very large, many-nucleated cells, of irregular shape, but these cells are found in greater abundance, so as to form a cha- racteristic structure in the class of tumours to be now described, which was first distinguished by Six J. Paget. They are termed myeloid, from the similarity of their structural elements to certain corpuscles found in the marrow (gueAoV) of young bones. The tumour may either be enclosed in a capsule of expanded bone, or only by a periosteal investment. They are, for the most part, rather firm, but brittle, compact, of spherical or ovoid shape when invested by bone, more irregular and lobulated when growing upon bone. The cut surface is smooth, uniform, shining, succulent, with a yellowish fluid; commonly variegated by blotches of dark or livid crimson, or various shades of red upon a greenish or grayish white ground. The structural elements characteristic of myeloid tumours are large, round, oval, or irregular cells, and cell- like masses, of clear, or dimly granular substance, -jdo 1000 m(~ diam.; and containing from two to ten or more oval, clear, and nucleolated nuclei. With these occur caudate and fibre cells, and free nuclei, and the whole are embedded in a dimly granular sub- stance, mingled with more or less of molecular fatty matter. The