ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF TUBERCLE. 201 other substances, such as pieces of pneumonic lung, various kinds of pus, putrid muscular tissue; and a further step was taken by Ih\ Wilson Fox and Dr. Sanderson, who found that simple me- chanical irritation, such as that produced by the introduction of a seton under the skin, might lead in the animals experimented on to the same general infection as the inoculation of “ specific” or inflammatory products.* It seemed as if any irritation of the sub- cutaneous tissue intense enough and of sufficiently long continu- ance, or any external injury not immediately fatal, might under some circumstances be enough. In these experiments it was clear that if the absorption of any morbid poison caused general tuberculosis, it was one generated in, not inoculated, into the wound ; and there was, of course, nothing to forbid the extension of the same explanation to those cases m which inflammatory products were inoculated, since in these too local inflammation was excited. They do, therefore, remove the necessity of assuming any specific inoculation to produce the disease, although it has at the same time been found that the injection of fluid from an actually tuberculous organ produces the same infection more readily and certainly. "UC J. casos do not shut out the possibility of some specific morbid poison entering through the air, since the wounds and injuries were always open. In some instances when the setons were steeped in carbolic acid, and in others where sub- cutaneous fractures of bone were effected, no tuberculous or other disease resulted. Moreover, these animals were in all cases living under very bad hygienic conditions, such as predispose, in man at least, to tubercular disease. up. The local changes caused by the irritating substance are re- garded by Dr. Sanderson as of great importance, and are thus described by him. There may be, but is not always, suppuration: o primary and characteristic local lesion consists in the deve- oprnent at the seat of injury of granulations or nodules composed he adenoid tissue ” of His, that is, having what he regards as the anatomical structure of tubercle. Other experimenters mive laid much weight upon the caseous degeneration of the products ot inflammation, a change which is said to bo par- ticularly common in rodent animals; but this certainly does not always occur any more than suppuration. The next step (still lOUowing the same authority) in the morbid process is the infec- uon ot the lymphatic glands in relution with the seat of primary lesion: they become enlarged, indurated, and caseous. These changes are thought by Dr. Sanderson to be ossential steps in tho production of general tuberculosis. The infective material he r»« & j&g&t sraa