°of5 FIBROUS AND SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. evidence of an attempt at repair, in the shape of osseous vegeta- tions. Cruveilhier is of opinion that in this case the vascular development took place mainly at the expense of the arterial system ; he thence infers a general law that there are two kinds of erectile tumour, one of a venous, the other of an arterial character. Pulsatile and highly vascular tumours of several species beside cancer may give rise-to such symptoms as those described. There seem, however, to be real tumours composed of vessels only, true angiomata, which have given occasion to the designation “ aneurism of bone.” * FIBROUS AND SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. Fibrous, or fibroid tumours, sometimes occur centrally, like enchondroma, distending the bone in a similar manner, and some- times reaching a great size. They may also grow from the periosteum, and then may become partially ossified from the base, or isolated masses of bone (parosteal tumours) may form in them. Sarcoma of Bone.—The class of bone tumours having the structure of sarcoma is at the present moment very difficult to limit, since the anatomical definition of sarcoma includes most of the tumours hitherto described as cancer of bone. Spindle-celled sarcoma, or recurrent fibroid, occurs not unfre- quently as a growth starting from the periosteum. These tumours are the type of what Sir J. Paget calls recurrent fibroid ; their clini- cal history is that of this form of sarcoma in general (p. 16S). They often have a pseudo-fibrous appearance, called fasciculate, and hence have been called fasciculated sarcoma (or carcinoma). They may form bone, or become simply encrusted with calcareous salts. The same form of tumour may start centrally, as in the specimen figured on page 146, in which Yirchow was of opinion that there was a combination with cancer.f Central sarcomatous tumours are mostly of the myeloid type, already described, which English surgeons distinguish more clearly from other forms of sarcoma than do the Germans. They are, how- ever, sometimes of fasciculated appearance, and contain spindle- celled structure. The general description of these tumours has already been given. It only remains to say here that when grow- ing from bones they start, in the majority of cases, from the cen- tral, i.e., medullary or cancellous part of the bone, but not always ; and that tumours containing abundant myeloid cells are found among the ossifying sarcomata of peripheral growth. Pigmented, or melanotic sarcoma, occurs as a secondary growth. * See a case in “Tran*. Path. Soc.,” vol. xix. p. 849. + Resides the eases in Paget’s “ Pathology,” very numerous instances are recorded in recent volumes of the‘‘Trans. Path. Soc.,” and in Virchow’s work on Tumours. Sjc also Arnold, “ Virch. Arcliiv.,” vol. lvii.