401 INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 1 times produced by phlebitis, though, as has been said,, the converse : is usually the case. The condition of the thrombus generally corresponds in some degree to the condition of the wall; so that when the latter is excessively thickened and infiltrated with purulent matter, the i thrombus will be breaking down or in the condition of puriform • softening. Endophlehitis.—While in many cases the changes just described may proceed without participation of the inner coat, in other cases important changes are seen in the latter. Abundant proliferation of the endothelial cells takes place, producing either continuous : thickening or budding masses of new growth which penetrate the ; softening thrombus. Durante * found when a single ligature was : put round a vein, the inflammatory changes were most conspicuous in the intima; but in a portion of vein enclosed between the ; ligatures the latter membrane remained passive, while all the pro- * cesses of destruction and organization went on in the other coats. These changes have, however, been traced by several other observers in inflammations produced experimentally ; and there is no doubt that they play an important part in the apparent organ- ization of thrombus and the obliteration of veins after ligature.t Bubnoff j has shown that migratory cells or leucocytes may I penetrate the venous wall from outside, and has attributed to the influence of these elements a large share in the changes iust J described. Chronic Phlebitis— Chronic inflammation of the outer coats •occurs in all probability as the sequel of acute inflammation and t thrombosis. The vein is found with its walls, especially the outer coat, thickened, and very closely adherent to the surrounding con- nective tissue, which is also indurated. The middle coat also shows ■fibrous thickening ; and there may be thickening of the inner coat, "So that the whole wall is greatly hypertrophied. The vessel is often dilated. Chronic endophlehitis resembles the corresponding process in i arteries, but is comparatively uncommon. It is seen chiefly in the veins, when the inner coat may be found yellowish opaque, thickened, and rigid. Puriform Thrombosis and Phlebitis.—When the process of throm- bosis occurs in parts which are the seat of suppurative inflamma- tion, it may, under conditions very imperfectly understood, assume •he character of what has been called suppurative phlebitis, or sup- purative thrombosis. The clot softens and breaks down in such a way as to resemble suppuration, which indeed is said in some cases actually to occur ; perhaps from the passage of pus cells through the walls into the interior of the vein. Secondary phenomena of (( * Strieker's “ Jahrblicher,” 1871-72, p. 143. +_Cornil and Ranvier: “Hist, rath.,” p. •Handbuch der Chirurgie,” vol. i. division ii. ♦ Vireh. Archiv,” xliv. p. 402. 570; Thiersch in Pitba anil Billroth’s ; Waldeyer, “ Vireh. Archiv,” xl. p. 369. D 11