NEW GEOWTH OF GLANDT7LAE TISSUE. 152 sympathetic system. It is important not to confound them with, hbrous or other tumours, which may be attached to or start from a nerve, though these have all been described under the common, name of neuroma. The true neuroma is composed of nerve fibres, generally resembling those of the nerve trunk, to which it is attached, and therefore medullated or ordinary fibres. In rare cases, however, Virchow has observed tumours composed of the non-medullated fibres, or so-called fibres of Eemak. The swell- ings which form at the divided extremities of nerves after am- putation are instances of true neuroma, and similar tumours in the course of nerves sometimes have a traumatic origin. Iso- lated masses of ganglionic nervous tissue, in the form of tumours, have occasionally been found in the brain, especially m the walls of the ventricles: they are perhaps congenital. Ganglionic ner- vous tissue has also, in a very few cases, been found in the congenital cystic tumours of the testicle and ovary, and in com- posite sacral tumours; but these are doubtless instances of abnormal development rather than of what is commonly under- stood by disease. With these exceptions, nervous tumours never occur except in connection with nerve tissue; that is to say, they are never heteroplastic. They are also entirely without any approach to malignity, though they may be multiple. IX.—NEW GEOWTH OF GLANDULAE TISSUE, GLANDULAE TUMOUES, ADENOMA. The tissue characteristic of secreting glands, or cavities lined with a secreting epithelium, may constitute the material of a new growth, and this may be either a hypertrophy of a glandular mass normally existing, or an independent structure. In the former case, which is by far the more common, the newly-formed glandular tissue resembles that of which it is an extension. When occurring as a distinct tumour, the new glandular tissue still preserves the original type, and in some cases discharges the same functions as the original gland; though in other cases the excretory duct is deficient. Glandular tissue is very often a com- ponent of tumours which are formed mainly of some other tissue —as for instance the fibrous polypi of mucous surfaces, which often contain glandular tissue. Perhaps the best example of this kind of tumour is the chronic mammary tumour, of which mention will be made hereafter, but similar structures are found in connection with the salivary glands, the liver, the follicles, and mucous glands of mucous surfaces. Glandular tumours never occur either primarily or secondarily except in close connection with secreting glands. The growth does not extend to the neighbouring parts, and they never give rise to other growths in distant and unlike organs, though they sometimes form an approach anatomically to the structure of true