SOFTENING OF THE STOMACH. 5G9 seat is at the pyloric portion. They are not peculiar to any form of disease. Microscopic examination of one of these ulcers showed the surface sunk in, the basement membrane gone, and the tubes quite atrophied and replaced by low fibroid substance, infiltrated with diffused yellow pigment. SOFTENING OF THE STOMACH. This condition, once thought to be of great importance and to indicate disease existing during life, is now generally regarded as a change which takes place after death. Under some circum- stances, as yet imperfectly understood, the gastric juice will act upon the walls of the stomach as upon the food during life, and partially or completely dissolve them. When the solution is only partial the mucous layer alone may be affected; its surface will be smooth without rugoe, the vessels containing blood will be stained black or brown, and the same colour may be seen diffused; while the whole wall will, of course, be thinner. The neighbouring parts, where the change is less advanced, will look pulpy and almost gelatinous. A\ hen the process extends more deeply, similar changes are seen to affect the muscular and fibrous coats, making them so soft as to give way with a touch, or actually dissolving them. It may happen that the walls, though not actually perfo- rated, are so soft that the attempt to remove the organ causes its contents to escape into the abdominal cavity. This change, whether partial or complete, is distinguished from conditions occurring during life, or from any possible result of the action of corrosive poisons by the following characters. The change is limited to that portion of the stomach in which food or acid liquid was contained; this, in the ordinary supine position of the body, will be the cardiac extremity and fundus, and espe- cially its posterior part, so that, as Dr. Wilks points out, if the contents be removed, it may be possible to see, by the change which has occurred, to what height the food reached, the water- mark being accurately defined by a distinct margin. Again, if perforation has occurred, a gradual thinning and softening of the coats will be observed all round, which will show that the opening cannot have been due to an accidental cut with the knife; while the entire absence of inflammatory reaction is sufficient evidence that the opening was not made, at least, long before death by ulceration or any similar process. The softening may extend in some cases beyond the stomach to the lower end of the oesophagus, diaphragm, pleurae, and lungs, or the oesophagus alone may be perforated, and the contents of the stomach escape interne pleura. Less frequently the change ex- tends to the duodHWm, where the mucous surface will be found pulpy and soft, or the whole wall destroyed. Pathology of Softening of the Stomach.—It has been always held