620 INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. It was formerly supposed that abscesses in the liver were specially likely to be the consequence of injuries to the head; but this appears to have been merely an error of observation, caused by not taking into account a sufficient number of cases. Injuries to the head are more liable to produce pytemia than injuries to some other parts ; but the pyaemia thus produced has no special tendency to attack the liver : abscesses in the lungs being, as in all other cases, of much more frequent occurrence. Multiple abscesses may also result from suppurative inflamma- tion of the bile ducts; which sometimes, though not always, extends into the surrounding tissue, producing abscess. They may also be the consequence of changes occurring in softened thrombi contained in the larger portal-vein branches which are spoken of below. In a few rare cases diffuse suppuration of the liver, producing numerous small abscesses, but not apparently due to pyiemia, has been observed. One of the best instances is described and figured by Dr. Quain, in the “ Pathological Transactions,” vol. iv. p. 171, plate v. Pysemic abscesses are sometimes preceded by a short stage of diffuse suppuration, when the form of the lobules can still .be recognized, though their substance is very soft, and of a yellowish colour. The commencing abscesses are at first very small, like spots of purulent matter dispersed here and there through the inflamed and softened tissue; they gradually enlarge, several coalesce together, and thus form cavities of irregular shape and size. The parietes of the abscess are uneven, presenting the remains of former partitions, they are covered by a kind of pyogenic membrane which consists, in great part, of pus globules; external to this, the wall is formed by hepatic tissue, infiltrated with exudation matter, which serves to bound and limit the absceos, as in the case of a common phlegmon. In very small abscesses, and those of very recent formation, as also in cases where the process is very rapid, this limitation of the abscess by exudation substance does not take place; on the other hand, in old abscesses, and those of very large size, occurring in tolerably healthy systems, a strong enveloping cyst may be found, consisting of fibroid tissue, and amounting sometimes to three or four lines in thickness. . Consequences of Hepatic Abscess.—If the abscess of either kind be deep-seated and encysted, it may continue, especially il of small size, for a long time without mcreasmg much, or producing serious disturbance of the health, but if it be near the surface it excites inflammation of the serous investment, ana effusion of lymph, which soon unites its wall with the part wi which it is in contact. This may be the wall of the abdomen, or some of its contained hollow viscera, or the diaphragm which 100 it in above, and by any of these various routes the abscess ma3 extend, and at length discharge its contents. By extension, a so, in the parenchyma of the liver, the abscess may reach a brauc