21 VARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. of a blood disease), and the blood is found fluid in the vessels. This statement is confirmed by Mr. Blake, and tbe same result proved to be produced by many other substances; others again, though of vexy analogous character, produced a contrary effect. For instance, when caustic soda or carbonate of soda was employed, the blood was coagulated imperfectly, or not at all; but when liquor potassse or its carbonate was used, the blood coagulated firmly. We have ourselves observed the formation of a huffy layer on the blood of an animal who had taken liquor potassse for several days, to the extent of disordering its health. Nitrate of potash and many other neutral salts did not at all impede the coagulation of the blood, while arsenious and oxalic acid, infusion of digitalis, and some metallic astringent salts did so decidedly. We may infer from these observations that it is not the alkalies, as such, nor the neutral salts, as such, which produce the effects that are usually ascribed to them, upon the blood, but certain substances of particular qualities. Again, in adynamic fevers, we often find the blood remarkably fluid, so as to gravitate after death to all the depend- ing parts, and during life probably occasioning a tendency to haemorrhages, petechiae, and vibices, which occasionally take place. The deficiency of fibrine in these cases is confirmed by analysis. Andral noticed some diminution of this element in the outset of continued fevers. It never increased except on the supervention of an inflammation, and in the height of the disease sometimes sunk very low. In two cases, on the fifteenth day, it did not amount to more than 1 per 1000. A deficiency of fibrine might have been anticipated to exist in purpura haemorrhagica; and, indeed, sometimes this seems to be the case. Simon, in his “ Animal Chemistry,” gives two analyses, in one of which it is mentioned that there was no fibrine, in the other it only amounted to 0-905. Dr. Watson, speaking of this, or of the allied disease— scurvy—quotes a case, recorded by Huxham, in which ‘ ‘ neither of the portions of blood that had been drawn separated into serum and crassamentum as usual, though it had stood many hours, but continued, as it were, half-coagulated, and of a bluish-livid colour on the top. It was most easily divided on the slightest touch, and seemed a purulent sanies rather than blood, with a kind of sooty powder at bottom.” Dr. Copland and others refer to similar cases. On the other hand, Dr. Budd testifies that in some cases of scurvy, the coagulation takes place as in healthy blood; and in two cases lately examined by Dr. Parkes, it appears that the fibrine, at least, was not in any great degree diminished.* Dr. Graves also mentions a case in which, after each of three bleedings, there was formed a firm coagulum, with a huffy coat. The plethoric con- * In five analyses performed by Becquerel and Rodier the general results were as follow The clot was always of good consistence, the density of the serum low, the water increased, the quantity of globules diminished as well as their ferruginous contents; the fibrine was never diminished—sometimes increased: there was no in- crease of alkalinity or of salts ; the solids of the serum were notably diminished.