664 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE SURRA-RENAL CAPSULES. cortex more often opaque and fatty. In less advanced cases the central portion only may be affected. Iodine produces the usual coloration, affecting chiefly the blood-vessels and partly the fibrous septa. No special symptoms are known to be connected with this condition. Tumours and New Growths.—Cancer occurs both primarily and secondarily. The primary occurrence is not common. Klebs describes a case in a child aged eleven, where both the capsules were converted into tumours, one the size of a fist, the other smaller, of typical cancer, with angular cells contained in alveoli. Numerous secondary tumours had been formed in the mesentery, liver, and lungs. Another primary cancer of one supra-renal is described by Dr. Ogle, from a child (“Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xvi. p. 250). Secondary cancers are more often observed subsequent to the same disease in the stomach, kidney, mamma, &c., and may affect both or one only. Sarcoma has rarely been described as such, but doubtless some of the cases of so-called cancer belong here (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xviii. p. 260). It is important to observe that these organs are one of the few original seats of melanotic sarcoma. Cavernous tumour or angioma has been observed in one case, and a cavernous lymphangioma in another. No characteristic symptoms are known to be connected with any of the above changes, or only a slight discoloration of the skin different from that seen in the true Addison’s disease.' The cases collected by Dr. Addison, in his original paper, included two of cancer; but subsequent observation has made it evident that these should be separated from the typical cases of the disease which is associated with his name. Syphilitic growth has been observed in one case of congenital syphilis. . ... Tubercle occurs, though not very often, in the miliary form m cases of acute general tuberculosis. In chronic cases, masses of yellow cheesy matter are sometimes found, constituting what was formerly called scrofulous matter or yellow tubercle., Tins has much resemblance to the morbid changes in Addison s disease, but we wish to draw attention to the fact that such material may be found in the one, or even in both, supra-renals, independently of that disease (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxi. p. 200), though not without similar morbid products in other, organs. Yirchow has given the best description of tubercle in these organs. He describes it as beginning in the medullary portion as miliary tubercles, which become confluent and soften down; while the process extends to the remainder of the organ. He regards this as the beginning of Addison’s disease, but the case mi which he builds this hypothesis seems to have been one of acute tuberculosis, and did not present unquestionable symptoms of Addison s disease, this question is again discussed below. • See twenty-two cases collected by Dr. Greenhow (“ Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xvii. p. 316) of undoubted cancer, where this assertion is strictly borne out.