108 CHANGES IN INFLAMED PARTS. Changes in the Inflamed Parts.—We enumerate these as—(1) Enlargement; (2) Atrophy; (3) Ulceration; (4) Gangrene. The term “enlargement” is preferable to that of “hypertrophy,” which is sometimes employed, because it conveys no such erro- neous idea as that the part is truly increased in size by addition of more of its own proper substance, an occurrence which most rarely, if ever, is the result of any form of inflammation. The enlargement depends entirely on the infiltration of the tissue with some form of exudation-matter, which subsequently undergoesti metamorphoses such as we have described, and is more or less completely absorbed. It often happens, however, that a part remains behind, and is converted into a low form of fibroid.tissue, consisting of dense fibrous stroma, with many nuclei. This con- stitutes induration-matter, which resembles very much that which forms cicatrices ; like which its tendency is to contract and shrink, thus compressing and obliterating the vessels of the part, and m this way, as well as by its pressure, inducing.the atrophy of the tissues among which it is deposited. A good instance of primary enlargement and subsequent atrophy, resulting from inflamma- tion, is afforded by some cases of cirrhosis of the liver. Other instances of enlargement are the thickening of bones, as a con- sequence of periostitis, and thickening of the skin m chronic eczema. Serous membranes also, are commonly thickened and complicated with fibrous adhesions, in consequence of attacks of inflammation. , ., , Atrophy, the result of inflammation, is described by KokitansKy as depending upon the mechanical injury done to the tissues m the seat of inflammation by the exudation, as well as upon their being deprived by it of their proper amount of nutrition. Being thus rendered unfit for the discharge of their function, they fall to pieces, and are absorbed, together with the exudation. “ ims occurs with especial frequency in delicate, lacerable tissues, when large quantities of exudation have been effused, and such as are solid and capable only of slow reabsorption. Thus, m the inflam- matory foci the substance of the brain, of the muscles, ot the kidneys, &c., becomes lost, while there remains in its place one or more gaps, limited by cicatrix-tissue, which, if such gaps are small and numerous, causes a spongy, rarefied condition ot the tissue. Under the head of Atrophy we may include softening, which is a very usual result of inflammation, and declares, as its other phenomena do, its destructive nature. Hard bones, when inflamed, can be cut with a knife, inextensible ligaments yield and stretch, muscular walls of hollow organs are paralyzed, and dilatation takes 1 Ulceration implies that condition of a part in which more or less of its proper substance has become eroded, and has isappeare . consequence of unhealthy action, so that a cavity remains, term especially applies to epidermic and epithelial structur . condition does not most commonly exist alone, but together