522 PLETJRITIS. be dropping from the organ. The older the effusion the more it assumes a membranous character, the friction and compression to which it is subject giving to it an irregularly honeycomb or cellu- lar appearance, or causing it early to put on a filamentous or mossy form. The products of inflammation do not always present the characters just described, but vary much in cohesion, in colour, and quantity, according to the constitution of the indi- vidual attached, and according to the exciting cause; thus we may, even in the same subject, meet with different products at different parts of the same lung. Fig- 120. The exudation may be of a more serous or of a purulent character, in which case the sac will con- tain more or less of these fluids in which we find portions of lymph detached from the pul- monary surface floating about, while their peculiar colour, from an admixture of more or less blood, may present a proportion- ately reddish tinge. The more asthenic the type of the inflam- mation, the more the effusion departs from the character of a plastic exudation, the more in- organizable it becomes. The lymph or false membrane thus formed consists of a fibrinous reticulum and lymphoid cor- puscles in variable proportion. The latter preponderate, as might be expected, in inflammations which take on the purulent type; the former in the more adhesive form of inflammation. The section which we have figured came from the surface of a pneumonic lung in the stage of purulent infiltration. As to the origin of these cells, of course, the same difference of opinion may prevail, as with respect to the new cells in all inflammatory processes. It has been clearly shown lately that there is a production of new cells, from the endothelium of serous membranes in the case of the peritoneum, which may by analogy be extended to the pleura. Cell-formation from proliferation oh the connective tissue corpuscles has also been traced by Virchow and others. It is clear, from the figure, that young cells are contained in the interstices of the membrane, and not on its surface only. Emigration from the vessels may doubt- less be also concerned. . , . . , , , When the progress of sthenic pleuntis is uninterrupted, tne change that next ensues after the production of inflammatory lymph on the surface of the membrane, is the formation in the Portion of the lower lobe of the left lung of a patient, compressed by turbid serum occupying the pleural cavity. A thick layer of lymph covered the hepatized portion of lung ; it was perfectly smooth from the contact with the liquid, and there was a free scalloped margin at some parts, of an inch in breadth.