LYHPHADENOMA. 154 (Dickinson, “ Trans. Path. Soe.,” vol. xxi., 1870.) cytogenous tissue may occur in any of tlie situations where it is normally found. In the lymphatic glands this hypertrophy may attain considerable import- Fig. 25. ance. Simple enlargement of these organs takes place either as a consequence of inflammation in the parts connected with them or independently; hut the en- largement consecutive to inflammation, or other morbid processes, being usually single and not per- manent, does not properly come under consideration here. Idiopathic enlarge- ments of lymphatic glands usually occur in young persons, and very fre- quently end in a peculiar kind of degeneration called scrofulous; but as this pro- cess has a natural termina- tion, and may completely pass away by suppura- tion or otherwise, scrofulous products cannot be regarded as strictly speaking new growths. The case is different, however, with another form of enlargement, m which no _ tendency to softening or caseous degeneration is observed, but in which the glands form hard, tough elastic masses of a white or yellowish colour, and are usually adherent together m clusters. Simulta- neously with this affection of the lymphatics are usually found new growths of cytogenous tissue m other organs, especially in the spleen, so that the process constitutes a general disease, to which we refer again below. Hypertrophy of the cytogenous fassue of the intestines is seen as a consequence of fevers and inflammatory processes giving rise to enlargement of the solitary and agmin. t glands It is also met with as an independent affection, in that disease in which the lymphatic system, spleen, &c., are usually also mVHdfoplastic Production of Cytogenous Tiss}^.A^°lU^e^ growth of cvtogenous tissue is an accompaniment of * disease usually starting with the lymphatm glands, ^chJms received the names of anremia lymphatics, disease. The lymphatic glands are growths affected, and in the manner above describe , ., diflRcult are almost as frequent in the spleen (wheie, 11 . ’ /■ li 8am0 to distinguish them from hypertrophy of normal tosue of ^esamfl kind), and are also found in the liver, kidneys, intestines, lung., . Cytogenous tissue, with thickened _ stroma.