8 HED AND 'WHITE CORPUSCLES. destroying them, being attached either hy mere imbibition, after the manner of a dyed fabric, or else hy some easily disturbed chemical affinity. This peculiar distribution of colouring matter in the blood is a matter of great physiological and pathological importance. The optical properties of the blood are, from this cause, very different from those of a solution. Its colour is not entirely derived from trans- mitted light, like that of a solution, hut is partly due to reflection from the surfaces of the globules. A true solution, therefore, •would appear darker, though it would he perfectly transparent in thin layers, which blood is not. The same fact explains why blood does not permanently stain the vessels containing it, or diffuse into the neighbouring parts, as for instance bile pigment does; the colour- ing matter being probably never in actual contact with the walls of the vessels. When the colouring matter leaves the globules, and becomes diffused in the liquor, blood has the optical and many of the physical properties of a solution. There are several patho- logical conditions in which this occurs, hut it is worth while to enumerate some of the means hy which it can be artificially effected, such as simple dilution with water, freezing and melting again, repeated electric discharges, separation of the gases of the blood; the addition of salts of the bile-acids, of ether, of chloroform, or of alcohol in small quantities. All these agents, it should he remembered at the same time, cause the globules to swell up, and ultimately, to become spherical, while, if continued long enough, they for the most part dissolve the decolorized stroma. It is also worth notice that decomposition of the blood produces the same series of changes if sufficient water be present. In dried blood the form of the corpuscles is preserved for an indefinite time. The chemical character of the blood-colouring matter is not with- out importance in pathology. The substance attached to the cor- puscles has been called Haemoglobin (also Hcematocrystallin or Cruorin). It is a body of extremely complex but perfectly definite composition, and may be obtained in crystals. When in solution it readily undergoes decomposition into an albuminous substance called globulin, and a coloured substance called Hcematin, which was long taken for the true blood pigment. Hcematin and Hemoglobin, however, differ not only in chemical composition (though both con- tain iron) and in crystalline form, but are readily distinguished by their optical properties. Each produces peculiar “ absorption bands ” in tho solar spectrum, by which its presence may be cer- tainly recognized. Ifrematin has not been found ready formed in the blood ; but its production in a crystalline form combined with HC1, constitutes a valuable test for the presence of blood (Teich- mann’s Them in crystals). These crystals are frequently found as a pathological product in old extravasations of blood; but the crystals most commonly found in such situations are composed of a third colouring matter obtained from the blood, and known as Havmatoidin. This body contains no iron, and resembles, if it be not identical with, a body obtained from the bile, called Bilirubin.