576 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL children in thrush. They appear to he generally found in children, but also in adults who have taken much milk ; and in other cases without any reference to food. The sarcina ventncuh ^eee pajre -} is probably not the cause of any special disease, but found in most cases of dilatation and obstruction ; sometimes in enormous quan- tities. VI.— ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. Congenital Malformations.—The intestine is not unfrequently defective in some part of its course; this most commonly^is the case near its lower termination, and involves an imperforate con- dition of the anus (atresia ani). Sometimes the intestine is onlv unusually short and of uniform calibre, or consists of several detached csecal portions, or it may terminate at the umbikcus, or in a cloaca common to it and the genito-urmary organs. Andral refers to a case in which there was only a single straight canal, extending from the termination of the oesophagus to the com- mencement of the rectum, to another in which the duodenum was double, a third in which there were two colons, to a fourth in which the appendix vermiformis was unusually large, and at the same time double. All these, except the first, are instances sof excessive development, though Rokitansky refuses to regard th as such, and considers them as “ arrests of formation. Atresia ani is the most important of these malformations. Som - times we find absolutely no anal orifice, sometimes one which S leads into a short ciecal pouch; the colon m both cases “ ding blindly in a mass of connective tissue. The rationale of this defect evidently is, that the inferior extremity of the rectum, formed bv inversion of the external integument, mils to become connectedwith the colon, which is formed out of the third embryonic !j law' mode 0f development of the intestine gives occasion for some of hs congenial Abnormalities. The rudimentary m eshne consists of a portion pinched off from the vitelline vesicle and. th^ communication between them, the omphah-mesmtenc or vitelline duct remains open for a considerable time. If the open ,”g after birth, there m»Je . tax , f ™en S« will, it He umbilicus into ulucb Itie ieumwill open enbe_ rlirectlv or by a channel given off latex all} fioin • . -.i remnant of the oinphalo-meseuteric duct. Or, again the wai i