781 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE MAMMJE. The physiological condition of the breast is subject to so many and important changes, that it is needful to bear these in mind in all cases of disease of the organ, taking into consideration at the same time the close connection which exists between the state of the pelvic procreative organs and the mammse. Thus, the anatomical conformation of the breast varies materi- ally at different times of life. In the infant, for instance, and until puberty, almost the only structures to be distinguished are the minute ducts converging to form the short, straight tubes of the nipple, and these are connected and supported by a variable amount of young connective-, and wavy white fibrous and elastic tissue. Very little fat is present, very little vascularity, and even the essential glandular structure, the minute csecal duct- terminations, whose epithelium furnishes the milk, are almost wholly wanting in youth. The tubes themselves are often mere cylindrical collections of epithelium with clubbed extremities. After puberty a considerable enlargement of the breast attends the awakened functional activity of the ovaries, and the vascular excitement now present may be periodically augmented at the catamenial periods. It is not, however, until conception has taken place that the glandular structure becomes fully developed. The ctecal terminations of the ducts now dilate into acini, lined with epithelium, which early in pregnancy shows that disposition to engorgement with oil particles and rapid proliferation, which subsequently produces, first the cells of colostrum, and afterwards the perfect milk. At the same time the division of the organ into separate lobes becomes more clearly marked, and this lobulation remains henceforth a striking peculiarity of the breast, until the cessation of the catamenia at the climacteric period. At this time retrograde changes set in, the glandular structures become inconspicuous, and much fat is found separating the atrophied lobes of the breast. Now, at all the periods of life the mammas are subject to distinct changes, which may be directly traced to slight failures or excesses of normal physiological processes. In newly-born infants a slight attempt at secretion of milk, attended with fulness, redness, and tenderness, and some escape of serous fluid from the nipple, is extremely common, and may bo readily stimulated to inflammatory changes and even to suppura- tion by the injudicious efforts of nurses to promote the flow of milk by manipulation and friction. At puberty, too, the new excitement and rapid development may often be attended with much uneasiness, tenderness, and neuralgic pains, and care should be taken to avoid anything like injurious pressure upon the enlarging organs. In boys, the slighter changes at this period not unfrequently take the form