IT/EMATOCELE. 722 the fluid is left at rest, leaving the upper portion more transparent, but containing some albumen, which is not found in the limpid contents of ordinary cysts of this kind. It is extremely probable that they make their way into the cysts in consequence of rupture of some seminal canal lying in contact with them, just as a biliary duct sometimes opens into the sac of an hydatid. This opinion is confirmed by the circumstance, that patients generally report the swelling to have commenced after some injury to the testicle. Where this is not the case, it has been suggested that the cyst originates in the persistent embryonic tissue, forming the corpus innominatum of Griraldes, which lies on the back of the testis, between it and the epididymis. Its structure is tubular, and it is connected with the ducts of the epididymis, so that the explanation of the passage of spermatozoa into a cyst formed in this position is sufficiently easy.* Diffused hydrocele of the spermatic, cord is the name given to an accumulation of fluid in that portion of the serous pouch carried down with the testicle from the peritoneum, which extends from the internal abdominal ring to the upper part of the tunica vaginalis. This tube may be either wholly or partially obliterated, and it is when it is closed only at the internal ring above, and at the testicle below, that an effusion of fluid into it gives rise to this form of the affection. Encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord forms a tumour, of oval shape, and seldom attaining the size of a hen’s egg. It is loosely attached to the vessels of the cord which pass behind it. Instead of there being only one cyst, there may be several, forming a series along the cord. This circumstance indicates their origin, from the partially obliterated process of peritoneum, which is carried down with the testicle in the formation of the tunica vaginalis. According to another view, they are simple cysts, of new production, analogous to those which constitute encysted hydrocele of the testis. It may be mentioned, that simple hydro- cele occurs not unfrequently together with some of the other varieties, and also with inguinal hernia. Hcematocele is the term applied to a tumour formed by an effusion of blood from the vessels of the testis or its coverings, or of the spermatic cord. Its most common seat is in the tunica vaginalis, which may be so greatly distended as to exceed the size of the adult head. The blood undergoes various changes, coagula being formed sometimes in separate masses, sometimes in firm layers, as in the walls of an aneurism. The fluid part in old cases is more or less thick and grumous, sometimes resembling coffee- grounds. The presence of the blood occasionally excites inflam- mation, leading to fibrinous and serous effusion, and, it may be, to suppuration. The effused blood sometimes putrefies, offensive gases are produced, and, unless free exit be given to the decom- » See a note on this subject by Mr. J. W. Hulke, F.E.S., in the “ Trans. Path. Soc.” for 1S70, p. 7.