too SUPPURATION. * Virchow’8 “ Ai’chiv,” vol. xv. to exert upon them a corrosive influence. Pieces of flesh put into fresh pus gradually lost weight, and were at last dissolved, with- out any evidence of putrefaction having occurred. Under similar circumstances Recklinghausen found that pieces of coagulated albu- men became infiltrated with pus-cells, which had penetrated their substance. Mr. H. Lee has shown that pus possesses a remarkable power of accelerating the coagulation of blood. In one experiment the blood, which had pus (healthy) added to it, coagulated in six minutes; while that which was left by itself required twelve. This is probably due to the paraglobulin or fibrmo-plastic sub- stance which has been found in the serum of pus, and which reacts with the superabundant fibrinogenous _ substance of the blood serum. Much weight has been laid on this property of pus, in relation to the theory of pyremia. . . „ Formation of Pus Corpuscles.—With respect to the origin of pus corpuscles there is the same difference of opinion as exists about the corpuscles of inflammatory lymph already spoken of; and there can be no doubt that the explanation of the one will also be the explanation of the other. It was at one time pretty generally held that pus-corpuscles were formed in a fluid blastema, by the process of “free cell formation,” either by the grouping of granules or by the growth and enlargement of minute granular Mobules. In'some cases also it was held, from a solid blas- tema of coagulated fibriue, by the liquefaction of the solid fibrine and the multiplication of the corpuscles (which when very numerous, are called pus-corpuscles); or by a similar process numerous, mo taucu -n, from granulation tissue; so that, m Pagets words. the cells Irom granuiauon ti&ouo , of PUS from wounds are ill-developed or degenerate granulation cells-” and “the most frequent degeneration of inflammatory lymph is into pus.” In distinction to all these views came the comprehensive generalization of the Cellular Pathology, whic uniting in one scheme the cells of ordinary inflammatory lymph, of granulations, and of pus, regarded them all as derivatives of the cells or nuclei of the tissues. At first the power of producing new cells was supposed to be limited to the connective tissue, but it was afterwards shown that it must, on the same grounds, be ascribed also to epithelial structures. This theory was for a long time accepted universally in Germany and by many pathologists this country and in France; but it has since the researches of Cohnheim, Already mentioned, undergone much and there are probably few observers who do not admit that many at least of the pus-corpuscles are nothing but emigrant blood ce s. Without entering much into details, we must look for a rnomui at the explanation given of these two theories of suppuration in solid organs or abscess, and suppuration on mucous surfaces. Abscess.—The changes of tissue elements,in the fo abscess, or in purulent infiltration, were studie vi ■ minuteness by Weber, in 1858.* Ho found in all the surrounding