CHAPTER III. INFLAMMATION. Familiar as are the phenomena, and time-honoured as is the name of inflammation, authorities are not precisely agreed as to its definition. Formerly the conception was entirely derived from superficial characters; lately endeavours have been made to give it precision, by selecting, and perhaps exaggerating, some of its phenomena. Thus, Dr. Williams speaks of inflammation as a forn of hyperaemia, in which motion of blood in the part is partly increased, partly diminished. Mr. Simon thinks that the entire process consists essentially in local change of material, involv- ing simultaneous loss of substance and reproduction of substance; and differs from ordinary nutrition or life (of which this is also true), in being so rapid and intense, that the opposed results are appreciable. A more comprehensive definition is aimed at by adding to the conception change of nutrition that of functional disturb- ance ; hyperaemia and exudation being regarded as usual but not essential accompaniments (Uhle and Wagner). More lately the notion of inflammation has been derived from its most frequent cause. In the words of Cornil and Ranvier, it is “the series of phenomena observed in tissues or organs analogous to those pro- duced in the same parts artificially by the action of a chemical or physical irritant.” The definition of Dr. Burdon Sanderson is to the same effect. “By the ‘process of inflammation’ I under- stand the succession of changes which occurs in a living tissue when it is injured, provided that the injury is not of such a degree as at once to destroy its structure and vitality.” As to their cause, he divides inflammations into those of extrinsic and those of intrinsic origin; the former being those produced by direct irritation; the latter, those commonly called idiopathic, but more correctly infective, the cause being internal. The effects of injurious irri- tation, according to the same authority, are three: (1) Disorder of circulation ; (2) transudation of the constituents of the blood ; (3) altered mode of growth of the elements of the inflamed texture. Of these the second only is absolutely essential, the alterations of circulation only assisting, but by no means causing,