454 DILATATION OF THE BRONCHI. t “.Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. vi. i>. 57. place in the tissues which are likely to give rise to it, any violent effort to distend the lungs, as in catarrh, bronchitis, or hooping- cough, may he the exciting cause. Forms of Bronchial Dilatation.—The three forms which Laennec describes have been successively adopted with some modifications by subsequent writers, though none have been satisfied with his rationale. In the first there is a solitary cystic dilatation or a series of distinct dilatations of a more or les3 spherical form, commonly affecting bronchi of the third and fourth order; these forms are essentially the same, and they generally present con- siderable attenuation of the dilated portions, while the interv emng parts of the bronchi remain normal. The second (or Laennec s third form) differs entirely from those just considered, and consists in an almost uniform or cylindrical expansion of a single tube, or an entire section of the bronchial tree. The third form of some other writers, as Forster, is that of fusiform dilatation, constituting a transition between the two just mentioned. It is m the cylin- drical dilatation that we meet with thickening of the parietes, tumefaction of the mucous membrane, which may be thrown into folds resembling those of the small intestine, and a propor- tionate increase in the subjacent fibrous tissue. When the dilatation affects the apex of the lung, it may proceed to such an extent as to resemble a tuberculous multilocular caiitv. The perfect continuity of the mucous lining with that of the adjoining bronchi, and the smoothness of the tissues, will aid in determining the nature of the lesion, if there be any doubt. The first form or saccular dilatation is not very common, lhe sacs may be as large as a walnut, or more rarely the size of an egg or larger. The bronchus opens into the cavity sometimes with it full wTdth; sometimes by a constricted opening, which may be even altogether obliterated, so that the cavity represents a closed c-yst. The cavity contains mucus and pus, sometimes extremely ieti • When there are several such cavities they may occupy a great part of the lung, and produce during life all the physical signs of phthisical vomicte.t . . , , nTw1 The cylindrical form of dilatation is the most common, and is sometimes pretty general in both lungs It is not wnmU larger bronchi, but begins mostly m those of the thud oide . These tubes, instead of becoming smaller, as they would norm, do, retain a uniform diameter or become larger and preserve this enlargement till close under the pleura, where they end mostly in * “Tted tS/X fusiform, has teen described the tateWj* uneq unlly dilated in a spindle-shaped manner. It differs, toweve, but little from that last described, constituting perhaps a tiansition to the sacculated variety. It is very uncommon. * See Laennec’s “ TraitC- de 1’Auscultation Mc'dfcale,” &c., 1S2S, voL *• p' 206'