ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. 552 In the oesophagus, on tho other hand, it is comparatively frequent, and according to the unanimous testimony of recent observers much more frequent than encephaloid or scirrhus, with ulcerated forms of which it has doubtless been confounded. According to Lr. Wilks, it is most often found opposite to the bifurcation of the trachea, where it forms a long cancerous ulcer, some three or four inches in length, with raised edges, the surrounding mucous surface being sound. Sometimes it involves the whole circumference of the tube, but if not, then the disease is always more advanced on the anterior wall. The disease is almost always quite local, affect- ing only the parts immediately adjacent and the neighbouring lymphatic glands, but we have seen secondary growths in the liver in some cases. Round Ulcers.—Simple round ulcers of the oesophagus resembling the round ulcers of the stomach, and like these, owing their form and other peculiarities to the action of the gastric fluid, are met with, though rarely, at the lower end of the tube. _ _ I Post-mortem Softening— The lower part of the oesophagus is liable to softening from the action of the gastric fluid after death, which attacks especially the left side, which adjoins the left pleura, and occasions perforation and effusion of the contents of the stomach into this serous cavity. It is often associated with similar soften- ing of the stomach, but may occur independently. IY.—ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. Congenital deficiencies in the peritoneum will, of course, exist when any of the viscera which it invests are absent, or imperfect, or when the walls of the abdominal cavity are in a like state. It appears also that the various folds may of themselves be imperfectly developed, e.g., the omentum or mesentery may be unnaturally small or absent. On the other hand, these same folds may be of unusual dimensions, as when a mesentery of more than common length allows the intestines to float up to the surface of an abdomen distended by ascites. Certain pouches, which may by enclosing and incarcerating portions of intestine produce hernia, like those of the external diverticula of the peritoneum, have been described especially by Treitz. He distinguishes the fossa diiodeno- jeiunalis, formed by the side of the aorta, near the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery by a fold of peritoneum surrounding the duodeno-iejunal flexure ; the fossa intersigmoidea formed on the under surface of the mesocolon of the sigmoid flexure: and the fossa subcrecalis formed by a separation of the layers of the meso- colon belonging to the ascending colon, and thus lying behind the Ut The first-mentioned condition is the commonest of the three, it has been in some cases the cause of hernia and fatal obstiuc 1