SYPHILITIC PRODUCTS, OR SYPHILOMA. 205 fibrous increase or foimation of the capsule. The more active the absorption of the central parts, the more abundant is the capsular connective tissue. In superficial parts atrophy leads to ulceration. The starting-point of the new growth appears to be always the connective tissue or vessels; never glandular or specialized i elements. philomata are found most often iu the skin or subcutaneous connective tissue; then in the muscles, bones, fasciae, and also in • viscera as liver, kidneys, brain, heart, &c. The existence of Ua i ,mours ,°f this kind in the lungs is somewhat doubtful; ™°hfli dld"use inflaramations doubtless occur in consequence of The distinction from tubercular or scrofulous affections is not always evident; but in general the degenerated or necrotic form of - syphiloma is tough, yellowish material, tearing into shreds, but 1 ?*ot crumbling. Very seldom (we have seen it once in the liver) is it actually m a pasty condition. On the other hand, the condition may closely resemble the induration of simple chronic inflamma- tion; from which, however, the tendency to degeneration and - necrosis distinguishes it. ° Lupus.—This form of new growth is not perfectly understood, but seems, like tubercle and syphilitic products, to be intermediate •■between inflammatory products and true new growths. It is IH il ,y7lrCh°T among tumours> “d has a structure not mn i' i granulations. It occurs only in the skin (or rarely mucous surfaces), and consists chiefly of nuclei and cells, with little andTb»mgnSUbstallCe\1 T1,1-; nuclel have no sPecial peculiarities, ArroWK* ! S are h,k® leucocytes, but sometimes larger, the ?g i sT%™th°rs (Rmdfleisch) the sebaceous glands are hrbsnf wL ^disease.* It is very difficult anatomically by h’°m 10 inflammatlon accompanied Drm/n• —-chronic glanders and farcy, but especially the latter, ^cwS+i0r8e% i 1 noduleS or “tubercles,” compared by • 3pen when* Si luPus aild syphilis. They are less frequently Rtteck th° dlSeaSS aff°Cts man from the acuteness of the • Lupus erythematodcs is a different diseuse, probably originating in the glands.