LETTCOCYTIEEMIA OR LEUCHiESIIA. 74 various organs which, are regarded as resembling lymph-glands in structure, viz., the tonsils, and other follicular structures of the intestinal tract, and the red medullary tissue of bones; and finally, in very different organs, as the liver, kidneys, lungs, &c. Some of these morbid changes are regarded as ■primary, being thought to be the cause of the state of the blood; others are called secondary, being regarded as its consequences. Primary Morbid Changes.— The researches of numerous patho- logists, more especially of Virchow,* Bennet,t Neumann,! Hosier, § and Behier, have shown the very close connection of this disease with changes in certain organs, which are believed to take part in the formation of the colourless corpuscles of the bloody viz., the spleen, the lymphatic glands, and the red medulla of bones, as well as, in an inferior degree, other lymphatic structures, such as the follicles of the digestive tract. The superabundance of white corpuscles in the blood appears to be a consequence. of hypertrophy of these structures, which in such a condition furnish to the blood a much larger number of corpuscles than they do normally. There may, however, be hypertrophy of these struc- tures without leucocyfhsemia, and the precise nature of the difference between these classes of cases is not clearly understood. According to the primary morbid change which is the starting- point of the disease, Virchow has distinguished two forms of leuchsemia, viz., the splenic and the lymphatic; in the one the spleen, in the other the lymphatic glands, being the starting- point; but cases in which either of these organs is exclusively affected are uncommon, most being what Virchow calls mixed cases. In purely lymphatic leucocythsemia the colourless elements of the blood are said to be somewhat smaller than ordinary white corpuscles, but to possess larger nuclei; while in the purely splenic cases they resemble the normal corpuscles of the blood, except m being for the most part larger, and usually containing multiple nuclei. The so-called lymphatic form is, however, extremely rare. To these two types must now be added, for the sake of complete- ness, two others, viz., the form which arises from an affection of the osseous medulla, first observed by Neumann; and another, m which the blood changes are dependent upon hypertrophy of the glandular structures of the intestine, seen as yet m one case only, by Behier. The first of these forms has been called the myelogenous by Neumann. He was the first to show that the red medulla of bones has many characters of a lymphatic organ, and is in all probability one of the parts where both red and white » “ Gesammelte Abliandlungen,” 1SS6; “ Die Krankhaften GeschwtUste,” vol. ii.; “ Cellular Pathology,’’ translated by Chance. + On “ Leucocytheemia,” 1852. «olert X “ Archiv der Heilkunde,” 1869, vol. x. p. 68, and 18<0, xi. p. 1. Sfeealw Quar- terly Journal of Microscopical Science,” 1870: art., Neumanns Boe. c . 1871 n 292 _ § ‘‘ Die Pathologie und Therapie der Leuk&mje,” Berlin, 1872. The standard work on the subject, containing very numerous references.