ABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD, 36 presence in anything like considerable quantity that is abnormal, since it has been clearly proved that a minute quantity exists in perfectly healthy blood of men and animals. The same is the case with another constituent of the urine, viz., uric acid, which exists naturally in small proportion in healthy blood, but accumulates therein from defect in the excreting functions of the kidney just before an attack of acute gout, and also in chronic. As it is deficient in the urine Dr. Grarrod’s conclusion seems just, that the chalk-like deposits appear to depend on an action in and round the joints vicarious of the uric acid excreting function of the kidneys. The well-known effects of the presence of this gouty matter (uric acid) in the blood, as the malaise and ill-health which precede the attack, the inflammation produced by its localization, and the occasional serious result of its transfer to more vital parts, illustrate exceedingly well the disturbing action of an excretory substance retained in the blood. Another nitrogenous substance which has been found in the blood is hippuric acid; but it is not known to haye any pathological significance. Other substances abnormally present in the blood are hypoxanthine and gelatine, which have been found by Scherer in leuchremia. The former sub- stance is of normal occurrence in the spleen ; and the latter occurs in that organ in the same disease, which is accompanied by its presence in the blood. Hence they are probably derived from the white oorpuscles; especially as Bodeker has obtained gelatine from pus .corpuscles. Whether bile, when present in the blood, is the cause of dis- orders, we do not certainly know. Its gradual disappearance as it passes down the intestinal canal is considered by Liebig as a proof that it is absorbed; but Lehmann is unable to find any trace of it in the blood of the portal vein. It may, therefore, be decomposed, and not .absorbed. Biliary pigment is often present in the blood in considerable quantity without occasioning much disturbance, but we cannot sjieak so positively with regard to the biliary acids. It has already been stated that these substances, when injected into the blood, have a peculiar action on the red corpuscles; but this has never been observed in jaundice. In that terrible affection of the liver called by Rokitansky acute yellow atrophy, in which the cells of the organ are completely destroyed, and the whole tissue deluged with yellow pigment, we are quite ignorant of the exciting cause of the convulsions and coma by which the disease commonly proves fatal. No chemical examination that we know of has yet been made of the blood in this disease; and all that can be said is, that it seems most probable that the poisonous matter which produces the cerebral symptoms is none of the constituents of the bile, since both of them, the pigment and the cholic acid^ have been found in the blood when none of the symptoms of cerebral disturbance were present. It may be, perhaps, a decom- position product of the organic biliary acids. However, though we cannot point out what the materies morbi in this case is, there