VARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. 19 ■upon the valves of the heart, the wrongly-called vegetations, in like manner, show no innate capacity of development and growth ; they tend to contract and harden, or to become penetrated with calcareous matter, and never show any • organized arrangement beyond a low grade of fibrousness. The circumstance which seems to have contributed most, or at least very greatly, to establish the opinion of the highly plastic quality of fibrine is, that its quantity is found to be so very largely increased in sthenic inflammatory diseases. Not only its appear- ance in the thick, huffy coat, but the quantity of solid effused matter, forming layers of false membrane, of considerable firmness and thickness, together with the character of the attendant symp- toms, inspired an idea that the substance thus abounding in these diseases of marked sthenic type, and so called increased action, and comparatively deficient in affections of asthenic type, was that which was especially plastic, and employed in the construction of all the various tissues in healthy nutrition. While thus rejecting the doctrine that fibrine is the sole or chief plastic element, we do not wish, on the other hand, to deny its importance, when of proper quality, in maintaining the due con- sistence of the blood, and in fulfilling such other purposes as those at which we have glanced. We now proceed to consider the varia- tions of this substance, in different morbid conditions, as to quantity and quality. VARIATIONS IN FIBRINE. The average for the fibrine of ordinary venous blood, adopted by Andral, is 3 parts per 1,000, but most observers place it rather lower. Scherer found in the blood of healthy men 2-03—2'63 parts. Its quantity, as mentioned, is greater in arterial than in venous blood, and is said by Schmidt, after numerous examina- tions, to be only one-third in portal venous blood of its ordinary amount in that of the jugular vein. Sex does not appear to affect the proportion of fibrine, but the state of pregnancy does mate- rially; in the first six months the quantity is decreased, the average being 2-3 ; during the last three months the quantity is increased, so as to average 4. After parturition the quantity for a time seems to be still further increased, a circumstance which may have some relation to the tendency to uterine inflammation and mammary abscess, which marks this period. In very early infancy the quantity of fibrine in the blood appears to be small, but it experiences a marked increase at the period of puberty. Lehmann, in experiments upon himself and Nasse, in experiments upon dogs, found that animal diet increased the proportion of fibrine above that which was found under a vegetable diet. Increase of Fibrine.—Passing now to the morbid conditions in which the fibrine is found increased, we find, as a general law, that in all inflammatory diseases especially this is the case. In