ABNORMAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE BLOOD. 35 i commonly produced by uraemic poisoning in a less severe form, t Cases of pericarditis of renal origin are nearly as frequent as those i of rheumatic. The term uraemia seems to imply that the poison- ; ing of the blood depends on the presence of urea, and such has long been the general belief, but numerous experiments and . observations of late have done much to invalidate it. The quan- ■ tity of urea in the blood and the intensity of the symptoms bear no proportion to each other; there may be much urea in the blood ; and no symptoms, and severe symptoms with little or no urea in the blood. Dr. Todd, Yauquelin, and others have injected urea, : into the veins of animals, or given it by the mouth, without pro- ducing any other effect than increasing very greatly the flow of urine. Still more, Frerichs has repeatedly injected human urine into the blood of animals without producing any ill effects. It seems clear then that it is not’ urea, nor any other constituents of the urine, that produce by their presence in the blood the symp- toms of poisoning. It may be, however, some of their decompo- sition products ;• and Frerichs states that he has proved it to be the carbonate of ammonia, which is well known to result from altered urea.. He has repeatedly demonstrated the presence of ammonia in the air- expired1 by the sick, and by animals into whose veins urea- had been injected after extirpation of the kidneys. Carbonate of ammonia, he says, can always be detected in the blood whenever ursemic symptoms exist, as well as usually traces of undestroyed urea. The very exact experiments of Kuhne have, however, shown that ammonia may be quite absent from the blood of animals dying of ursemic poisoning, since no reaction was given by a test sufficiently delicate to detect one-millionth part of carbonate of ammonia. The presence of an excess of urea in the blood, after extirpation of the kidneys, or ligature of the ureters, has been called in question, especially in cases of the fox-mer operation. The discrepancy seems to depend upon the amount of vomiting, since by this means much urea is got rid: of. In rabbits, which never vomit,, both these operations produce a considerable accumulation of urea in the blood. Succinic acid has also been found by Meissner in the blood of ursemic animals.*' It has therefore been suggested that “ ursemic poisoning ” is due to> the presence in the blood of nitrogenous bodies more complex than urea, which would, if the kidneys were acting normally, be changed into urea. What is the exact cause of the inflammations of the serous membranes, which often prove fatal in renal degenerations, does not seem made out; it does not appear to be the’ presenoe of urea in the blood, as we have no evidence that this, is capable’ of producing such effects. Frerichs thinks that tlie- impoverished state of the blood is an adequate cause, but in this we can hardly agree. While speaking of urea as a substanee abnormally pre- sent in the blood, it must not be left unnotioed that it is only its Ktlhne, “ Physiologiische Chemic,“ p, 250.