MIXED PHTHISIS AND TUBERCULAR PHTHISIS. 504 have an opportunity of examining the disease in an early stage we find a soft yellowish mass of degenerated matter probably sur- rounded by or continuous with a very few pearly granulations of broncho-pneumonic character such as have been just described. If the disease have lasted longer there may be some grey indura- tion, and dilated bronchial tubes, the latter containing, perhaps, some putty-like matter. If the disease be distinctly obsolete or obsolescent there will be also puckering of the pleural surface; and probably nothing else but fibroid tissue, or, perhaps, a little nutty-like matter contained in a bronchial cavity. In these latter stages nothing that can be defined as a tubercle is to be found; nor is there any evidence that tubercles have been there and been absorbed. In earlier stages (which only chance opportunities can reveal to us) tubercles are at least in some cases absent. Hence the probable (though not absolutely certain) conclusion is that all the appearances just described may be produced entirely without the intervention of tubercle. Formerly it was thought that all the changes just described came from a primary deposit of tubercle; and though we cannot absolutely disprove this assertion in all cases, we can say that it is not a positive conclusion, and not supported by such evidence as an inference of that nature demands. As, however, the production of tubercle is always likely to occur, this form of disease passes insensibly into mixed phthisis. II. AND III.—MIXED PHTHISIS AND TUBERCULAR PHTHISIS. The first of these forms, which includes by far the larger pro- portion of all cases of phthisis, was formerly regarded as entirely due to the formation and subsequent changes of tubercles; lately, especially by German writers, it has been represented as purely inflammatory in its origin, an opinion long ago defended by the late Dr. Addison.* . . ,. . , , A If we regard tubercles as signifying something beyond^ and different from inflammation, then this way of looking at the question is certainly too narrow, since tubercles may almost always be found in chronic cases. On the other hand, when tubercles are once formed, they always become complicated with inflammatory changes. The phenomena will then be the same as if the disease had begun with inflammation and tubercles had been superadded. For these reasons they find it impossible to distinguish between the third and fourth forms when the disease has become chronic, and we feel compelled to describe together the mixed phthisis which is in its commencement inflammatory, and tubercular phthisis, which becomes inflamma- tory, as Chronic Phthisis. , See also Wilks’s “ Lectures on Pathological Anatomy,” 1S59, p. 210.