375 CHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. arteries in fifteen out of eighteen cases of trismus neonatorum. There was tumefaction of the umbilicus, reddening and congestion on -the external surface; the channel contained pus, and the lining 1 membrane was eroded and invested with an albuminous exuda- tion. Dr. Scholler has carefully examined these parts in all other new-born children who died shortly after birth, and has never succeeded in discovering similar lesions. It does not apjiear that traumatic tetanus in the adult, to which we may compare trismus : neonatorum, is accompanied by similar lesions. CHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. With regard to chronic arteritis the opinions of writers are as i much divided as in reference to the acute form. The same difficul- i ties in determining the relation of cause or effect in this subject i have been felt by most of the writers on the subject, and have not yet met their complete solution. The older authors attributed i the appearances of chronic arteritis to syphilitic taint or mercurial poisoning; some of the more recent, among whom we may mention 1 Corvisart,* * * § have held a similar opinion, and Hodgson t supports it on ' the ground that he has observed aneurism and those organic alter- ations which generally attend the formation of aneurism, to prevail in subjects that have suffered from venereal disease, and who have taken large quantities of mercury. The connection of this disease with syphilis is moreover supported by many authorities in the present day, especially by the medical officers in the army, who have unusual opportunities of observation in venereal disease, j _ The majority of authors are now of opinion that fibrinous depo- sit, atheroma, ulceration, ossification, and aneurism are the result of a chronic inflammatory process, though there are some who still regard it as essentially a degenerative process. § We understand by it a chronic inflammatory process, starting in the inner coat and at first hyperplastic, but usually resulting in degeneration, either of the fatty or calcareous kind. The former is the most marked feature of the disease, and has here some peculiarities which have obtained for it a special name, atheroma, and the disease is hence often called the atheromatous process. Three stages may be distinguished in chronic arteritis. The first stage does not often come under our cognizance, and when it is found later stages usually exist simultaneously in other * “ Essai sur le« Maladies du Coeur,” p. 319. + “ On the Arteries,” p. 9. X “ Reports of the Army Medical Department/’ vol. v. p. 481, and vol xii p 381 § Rokitansky formerly regarded the process as consisting essentially iii the deposit of a morbid substance from the blood current upon the inner coat, this substance lieintr itself regarded as identical with the fibrin of inflammatory exudation In the later editions of his work lie has, however, modified, if not abandoned, this view anrl‘the deposit theory, wluch rested chiefly on his authority, is now generally given up