276 TUBERCLE OF TIIE BRAIN. Tubercle is a frequent concomitant or source of meningeal in- flammation. Tubercular deposit in the cerebral tissue, like tuoer- cular meningitis, is a disease specially incident to childhood. but the two are not necessarily associated together. Tubercle in the brain may affect any part of the organ; it occurs mine shape of rounded nodes varying in size from a pins head to a walnut or hen’s egg; the deposits are not generally nume- rous and their size bears an inverse ratio to their frequency. It is most common to find only one or two, and of an average size of a chestnut. Dr. Baly has recorded a case in the reports of the Pathological Society* of a young man who died m the MiUbank prison, and in whose bram tubercles were found; only two were discovered in the left hemisphere, but those in the right are estimated to have been as many as fifty, varying m size from a grain of pearl barley to that of a barley-corn; the same case is also instructive as showing the great rapidity with which the deposit may occasionally take place under circumstances favouring the disease; for the patient was admitted into the prison on tne 30th December as a healthy subject; after a few days was attackea with headache, and on the 19th of January following he died with all the symptoms of an acute cerebral affection. The case appears to disprove the dictum of Rokitansky, that cerebral tubercle never occurs in any but the chronic form. Cerebral tubercle usually occurs m the yellow variety, presenting the appearance of soft yellow cheese, and the miliary granulations which'are so characteristic of meningeal tubercle, are very rarely met with, men they occur it is usually around a caseous mass, and hence the question has been raised whether the whole mass was originally in the condition of miliary granulations. Rokitansky is of opinion that tubercle in the brain, does m part at least, com- mence in the grey translucent form, considering that poitions of a tubercular mass are sometimes foiind m that state. In any^case, however he adds, it may continue for a short period only in that form and soon pass into the stage of the ye low cheesy tubercle Other pathologists would look upon the miliary granulations as the result of caseous metamorphosis m the primary mass, which thus acts as a focus of local infection. Sometimes the mass is evidently made up of an aggregation of minute graduations, and in these cases the view of Rokitansky seems very piobable. in o her cases according to Forster, the transition to healthy tissue is formed b’y a homogeneous zone of a greyish-red colour made up of newly-formed tubercular elements; moreover half or the wb ole of the mass may be made up of such elements exclus vel , showhm that it is not composed of an aggregation of nunuto growths, but was one homogeneous mass from the beginning. This * Session 1850-51, p. 34.