122 TEXTURAL CHANGES. In a few cases atrophy is a natural process, as in the disappear- ance of the thymus gland when the age of early infancy is passed. Inactivity of a part, obstruction of its blood-vessels, failure of its own vital energy, continued pressure upon its surface, are all recognized causes of atrophy. A muscle, if unused, becomes small and pale, and its tissue degenerates; the hones of a paralytic limb lose in density and strength, and in compactness of tissue; the brain in second childhood shrinks within its bony case, and leaves a space occupied by serum. Obstruction of the artenal branch leading to a part of the kidney will cause wasting of the epithelium of the tube in that part, ligature of the thyroideal arteiies has caused considerable diminution of a goitrous tumour. Thmning of the walls of the heart, renal degeneration, the fall, of the hair and the general decay of advanced age, are rnsba-nccs °f atropiiy from failing vital energy of the tissues. With the effect of pie-mre in producing atrophy, all are familiar; it is well exemplified in the absorption that tikes place from the pressure of affects not only the soft parts, but the bones themseives. ^mo^ cases atrophy is an actually morbid process, and is attended by a change in the7condition of the elementary parts of the tissue which attests the unhealthy character of their nutrition, especial some of the forms of degeneration mentioned below. Atrophy often occurs as a secondary process, induced by someP^maW ™ may have been attended with apparent hypertrophy. Of this the live7 in the earlier and later stages of cirrhosis furnishes an mshma. Induration and softening are terms that are com™onlJ ®?n!’ ’^ to express changes that have occurred in the consistence of various organs, rendering them more or less firm and dense than natural. They are, of course, very general m then- meaning, and of them selves tell nothing as to the pathological condition of the part- affected This must depend entirely on the causes of'theichan.es in question. The commonest cause of induration is the effusion of fibrinous material into the interstices of a tissue; if thrs does nc| liquefy and become absorbed, it passes into the state of filro d tissue^ and being blended with or replacing the elements of the part, E— obstruction. The tissues involved m the induration matter, as is often called, are veiy apt to become a^°P^e^^ration 0f sequence of their supply of blood being cutoff ihe vessels distributed to them, partly 1 f triflin'1, tittHSS it is a common cans, of