ANIMAL PARASITES. 211 particular situations on the human body. Paramcecinm coli is a ciliated organism, occasionally found in the cmcum and colon. Several species of Cercomonas, as C. intestinalis and urinarius the names of which sufficiently disignate their habitat, are known ; and there is an infusorial form, Trichomonas vaginalis, the special locality of which is the vagina in cases of purulent discharge. Articulata. The following insects are known as human parasites • —the common flea (pulex irritans); the chigoe of the West Indies [pidex penetrans); the pediculus capitis; the p. pubis, or phthirius ingumaiis; p. vestimenti; the common bug (cimex lectularius) Among Arachnida we find two species that frequent, the one the epidermis and the other the sebaceous follicles. The Acarus scabiei ^ [sarcoptes hominis) is a minute whitish creature, about Too size > its head is provided anteriorly with two pairs ol mandibular organs, and is furnished with four palpi, or bristles. In the adult state it has eight legs. The female is most com- monly met with, being sedeutary. She is larger than the male, being or 1° win. ^ 6 0 8 0-—- directed backwards The back is covered with bristles, 5 the two anterior pairs of legs are furnished with discs or suckers ; the two posterior pairs terminate in bristles lhe male is exceedingly difficult to find, not being fixed to one spot. He is about one-third smaller than the female, and has suckers on the hindmost pair of legs, as well as two anterior pairs. Ihe immature or larval forms have six legs only. The female burrows in the epidermis, and forms minute channels, at the end of which it may often be discovered, and where it lays its eg°-s. It does not inhabit the vesicles or pustules which constitute the eruption; these are simply excited by the irritative proceedings of the acarus. The Demodex folliculorum is proportionally much lon»> ^0“' broad; its head has two tataralpalpx, with an intervening proboscis, its thorax is supported y foui pairs of very short legs, with terminal claws, its lono- abdomen gradually diminishes to the end, and contains some granu- le ,and oli vesicles. It inhabits the hair follicles and sebaceous glands m any region of the skin, where it may be found ffiseie.heal hle pCrSOns- dt docs not appear to excite any To the order Arachnida also belong the Ixodea, or ticks, which though not always parasitic, attack the domestic animals and burner yimu: and the harvest bug (Leptus autumnalis) which :S,uudef th.e skm, apparently for the purpose of laying its eggs nefwndum. The irritation produced by these creatures horresco referens is sometimes frightful; tho whole surface wvered With red angry-looking lumps, which itch intolerably so that of scratching there is no end. What is very curious is tU Sen th:s excoodlno objective and subjective disorder tho ^uso ot offence may remain almost absolutely latent so that nffc of torment a single red speck, runningoversom n rf l u d^'H sole indication of tho mischief-working agency. If thcsJ visible