733 MORBID CONDITIONS OP THE SCROTUM. varicose veins, tlie vessels form a swelling, feeling like a bunch of worms below the testicle, and reaching up towards, but rarely invading, the cord; to be distinguished from hernia by its peculiar teel, and by its gradual decrease in size on the patient’s assuming a recumbent posture, to return on his standing up, the inguinal canal being free, and by the history of the slow course of the com- plaint. The left veins are oftener affected than the right, partly m consequence of accumulation of harder focal matter in the descending colon than m the ascending, partly on account of the left spermatic vein opening at right angles into the renal, and paitiy, perhaps, from the lower position of the left testis. When the varicocele is slight, it does not impair the nutrition of the testis but, when large, it occasions very marked atrophy— blood’m C0DSeflueuce of the ^creased venosity of the retarded amfoS !nTT iai'e ^fsjonally developed in the spermatic cord, tW ^ distinguished trom encysted hydrocele of the cord by theu doughy inelastic feel. Like the cysts, these tumours are f-ittv “10Vable to a ignited extent, and so simulate hernia. These fatty tumours may be complicated by the presence of sarcoma tissue together with the fat. This was the case in a specimen of recurrent fatty tumour of the cord, shown by Mr. Curling at a meeting of the Pathological Society of London in 1867. Micro- scopic examination ol the tumours removed discovered the presence ol spindle-cell growth, resembling “foetal connective tissue’’in tiie peduncle which had been cut through at each operation ’ and from which, doubtless, the recurrent tumour had been developed. MORBID CONDITIONS OP THE SCROTUM. It may be well to notice here the morbid conditions of the i asa Portlon ^tegument which has somewhat peculiar : t Mof of,most 4C'“ a . h . • ,Cazenave regards as essentially connected I fre nm,!amnUltl0rl 0t ,the iympimties of the part. This produces . the most enormous enlargement of the Dart—snob +w L s huac|red P°Unds more thaa the weTgh? t the rest of the body. The epidermis, the corium, and the sifh cutaneous areolar tissue, are all, especially the latter : The areolar tissue is converted into n lnro° ^ tfdbT,rrUnfiU“i.et‘ 7“*« m . Its aieofo are much enlarged in some mrt« • ti,,. a * ■remain sound; the spermatic cords are elono-ated" several inlf68 owing to the testicles being dragged down but te not lb h°S’ • diseased. Hydrocele sometimes occurs. When the disms .elwi8e f,ned to the scrotum, and the enlargementbec<W™°V"T the penis is drawn in, and ultimately ^arl wLftt