365 CONGENITAL MALFORMATION OF THE HEART. is not invariably the case; shortness of breath, and a tendency to syncope being sometimes all that are observed. A systolic murmur may generally be heard on the left side of the sternum, especially over the third costal cartilage, and there may be at the same spot a palpable thrill. It has been pointed out by Lebert, that in many cases of narrowing of the pulmonary artery, tubercular phthisis occurs in the lungs.* Origin of loth Aorta and Pulmonary Artery from Left Ventricle. This anomaly may be theoretically accounted for by supposing the ventricular septum to be transposed towards the right, being at the same time imperfect, just as, when both great vessels are connected with the right ventricle, the septum appears to deviate towards the left. It is, however, a very rare form of anomaly. Obliteration or Obstruction of the Aorta, with or without Imperfec- tion of the Ventricular Septum.— This defect is singularly rare, as compared with the corresponding defect of the right side of the heart. When it occurs the pulmonary artery supplies the aorta with blood through the ductus arteriosus. The right ventricle is very large; the left may, if the septum be perfect, be almost obliterated. Or it may, if imperfectly separated from the right ventricle, assist in the origin of the pulmonary artery. In the former case the foramen ovale must be widely open, and the blood from the lungs thus reaches the right auricle and ventricle. Transposition of the Origin of the Great Vessels.—11 sometimes happens that the pulmonary artery is found originating from the leit ventricle ; the aorta from the right. This condition has been observed in hearts presenting no other serious defect, exceut patency of the ductus arteriosus and foramen ovale. The auricles fe«.e^6 i,0(^ ,as usua^> the right from the systemic circulation; the lett from the lungs. The result accordingly is that, except for the small communication effected by the passages just mentioned, tbere are essentially two hearts; or (in the words of Baillie f) there must be florid blood circulating between the lungs and the left side ot the heart; a dark-coloured blood circulating between the general mass of the body and the right side. In one instance of a child winch survived two years and eight months, the ductus arteriosus was closed but the foramen ovale widely open. The origin of this curious anomaly is involved in great obscurity, and no adequate explanation has yet been suggested.j; 'Pf?a of constriction or obliteration of the pulmonary artery or orifice of the vcntncle arc recorded in the “Transactions of the Patholo^"soricty,?'™° Pt Oh, o2, 68, ‘2:u, 2)5; vol. 11. p. 37, vol. lv. p. 81.; vol. v. no (i7 ou. A „ uP' vui. PP-107, 123, 107 ; vol. x. pp. 81, 90 ; vol. xi. p. 45 • vo! xiii w rr ^ 8u ’ if! ®: vo1- x™ Many other references are given by Dr Peacock' in’the’ wnfrXV' often referred to, ‘ Malformations of the Heart,” 2nd edition, 18110 k ,‘5° London,riml”?'* trUt° “ M°rbld Anatomy’” P- Plate vi. faso. 1. 2nd edition, 7 Lockle; “Mod.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xlvi. p. 204, 1?63 Ward' “Pnih 'p ,, ska*1 “** s?k