801 THE FCETTJS. tions of the uterus, or to convulsions affecting the foetus. Of the hernia.1 to which, as congenital affections, we must allude, umbilical is a frequent and diaphragmatic the rarer form ; both are the result of imperfect development of the parietes, which in each case respectively ought to completely close in the abdominal viscera. In the former, the intestines, to a greater or less extent, pass through the umbilical opening, and occupy a pouch formed by the cuta- neous coverings of the abdomen ; in the latter they enter the thoracic cavity, where they displace the lungs and the heart; they commonly, though not necessarily, cause the death of the fcetus. The brain occasionally protrudes through the cranium, giving rise to hernia cerebri; this, however, must not be confounded with a tumour, which often forms on the head of the infant, simply owing to the mechanical pressure exerted upon it during parturition, and the consequent extravasation, and known as cephalhematoma. Encephalocele is described by Dr. Montgomery as, at first, a rather tense, smooth, and semi-transparent tumour, giving generally a more or less distinct sense of fluctuation; in shape the tumour is globular or oval, and frequently tapers to a neck, where it issues from the head, at which point a circular aperture can be detected in the bone, the edges of which are, in general, smoothly rounded off. The defect in the cranial bones, giving rise to this malforma- tion, is analogous to that upon which spina bifida depends; here there is a deficiency in the arches of one or more vertebrae, allowing a protrusion of the dura mater, or sheath of the canal, and the arachnoid lining, in which an accumulation of the spinal fluid takes place. The arachnoid often forms at the most projecting parts of the tumour the only investment, both the skin and the dura mater being thinned down gradually, and at last entirely lost. The fluid, in its turn, presses upon the cord, and more or less displaces it. When it occurs in the lumbar region, its ordinary site, the divided cauda equina may be seen, as Dr. Bright has shown,* adherent to the sac, and induces the erroneous opinion that the appearance is due to the nerves distributed over the sac being turned back- wards from their natural direction. When there are several defi- ciencies in the osseous canal, the fluid communicates between the different tumours; the entire column may be deprived of its spinous processes and their arches, so that the tumour occupies the whole region. Spina bifida is often associated with hydroce- phalus. One of the most remarkable occurrences in intra-uterine life is the phenomenon of spontaneous amputation of a limb ; this is sometimes complete, the severed extremity being entirely detached and leaving a stump, in which the healing process is perfected ; at others only partial, the stricturing band not having cut through all the tissues. It is generally the left lower extremity that suffers; and Dr. Montgomery has demonstrated the fact of its 3 F “ Reports of Medical Cases,” vol. ii. p. 640.