844 HOLLITIES OSSIUJI. Fir,. 191. fleisch, is as follows:—The trabeculae (of the cancellous portion; show only a central axis which still retains the perfect bone struc- ture. Outside this is a zone of fibroid material, with hardly visible bone corpuscles, having precisely the appearance of bone decalci- fied by hydrochloric acid ; and it is plain that a process of decal- cification spreads from the medullary and cancellous cavities into the solid bone. The tissue thus decalcified is partly absorbed, partly softens into a mucous or colloid material, which with fat occupies the place of the removed bone tissue. The medullary tissue is described by Bindfleisch as extremelv vascular, with dilated vessels, and showing occasional htemorrhage, but with no proliferation or special change in the medullary cells; the general appearance being rather that of passive than of active congestion. From the Haversian canals the process spreads outwards, and from the cancelli and from the medullary cavity also out- wards, till only a thin shell of bone is left, which perhaps escapes because nourished by the periosteum. It seems, then, that the process is clearly one connected with the medulla, though precisely in what way is not known. As the bones of the trunk are espe- cially liable to be attacked, the indi- vidual affected becomes reduced in size from the collapse of the vertebral column. A tall subject may thus be converted into a dwarf; an instance of which we had an occasion of seeing in the Clinique of Professor Kilian, of Bonn. The individual was a married woman whose stature had diminished in this manner, and was doubly inter- esting from having in this condition become the subject of a successful Caesarean operation. It was subse- quent to her recovery from this ordeal that we saw her, and that she was sup- posed to be again pregnant. Dr. Greenhalgh enabled us to examine a similar instance, in which the disease was also followed by contraction of the pelvis, rendering the Caesarean section necessary. Adults, and especially females, are the subjects of the malady. It attacks women chiefly after they Section of a femur from a lady, aged thirty, affected for some years with mollities ossium. The walls of the bone are thin, soft, and flexible ; the place of its medullary and cancellous tissue is occupied by soft jelly- like transparent matter of various shades, of yellow and pink, some of it deep crimson ; a similar kind of fat appeared to be diffused through the proper texture of the walls. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, i. 233.)