HYPER/EMIA. 42 and hardness, keen sensibility, mental and bodily activity and energy, a tendency to gout, bilious attacks, and disease of sthenic type, characterize the first form of plethora. It is observed in the “young, the active, and those of sanguine temperament.” In asthenic plethora the skin is cool, the extremities apt to become cold; the pulse is large, but without resistance; it is often slow, sometimes irregular. The venosity of the blood is marked; the lips are often of a livid tint. The contractility and tone of the muscles is deficient, the spirits depressed, the mental and bodily activity diminished. It is most often seen in the aged, in those who are exhausted by excesses or previous disease, “or in whom the excreting organs act imperfectly.” The characters of the blood in sthenic plethora are—(1.) The increase and amplification of the entire mass. Of this we have no direct measure, but we may form a tolerable idea of the extent to which it takes place by observing the effect of blood-letting. As much as forty or fifty ounces may be drawn at once in some cases, without fainting being produced; and even this quantity has sometimes been exceeded. Dr. Watson mentions a case in which seventy-two ounces were withdrawn before the patient became faint. (2.) The red globules in plethoric blood are remarkably increased, while the fibrine rather inclines to be somewhat diminished, and the albumen of the serum undergoes little variation. The quantity of water being diminished in proportion to the increase of the red cor- puscles, it follows that the coagulum formed after bleeding will be large, and will be surrounded by but little serum. The mass of corpuscles, in proportion to fibrine is so great, that the latter can- not contract to the degree it ordinarily does; and hence a larger amount of serum is retained within the clot. In sthenic plethora the coagulum is firm, as well as large; in asthenic its cohesion is diminished. (3.) A tendency to deficient arterialization may also be mentioned as a character of plethoric blood; perhaps we may connect this with a deficient production of fibrine, which, as we before stated, may with much probability be regarded as an oxydation product. Causes of Plethora.—Among the causes of plethora, the first place, perhaps, is to be assigned to a special tendency innate in the system to form an undue quantity of blood; or, speaking more exactly, to a too rapid growth and multiplication of the red cor- puscles. This, as it requires, so it may produce an increased quantity of liquor sanguinis, according to the principle that the demand induces a supply. When the tendency to form blood is considerable it will manifest itself, even in spite of circumstances that oppose it; but a similar tendency, in much less degree, will produce a most highly plethoric state, if favoured by an ample supply of rich food, and a sedentary life. Indeed these may have the same effects, even supposing no predisposition to plethora at all to exist. It is worth remarking, however, that they will not produce this result in all cases. In many it would be rather