492 COLLIEES’ PHTHISIS. disease of this kind is that described as the “ Colliers Phthisis,” or, as it has been called, anthrakosis. The lungs of colliers are often, found after death to be exceedingly full of black pigment, and there is no doubt that this is carbonaceous dust inhaled during life. Objections were at one time made to this conclusion by some German pathologists, but the discovery by Traube in a lung of this kind of a fragment of undoubted black coniferous wood, which must have come from coal, showed the correctness of the opinion always entertained in this country. Beside blackness, the collier s lung shows induration, condensation, and often the formation of cavities. Changes very similar to these are produced in the lungs by the inhalation of various kinds of dust, as oxide of iron, the dust of copper mines, that caused by grinding, stone working, flax dressing, &c., though in these the black colouring is less marked. The characters common to all these cases are summarized by Dr. Green how’ as consisting in thickening of the pleura, increase in the density of the lungs, and formation of patches of consolidation of various sizes in their substance. These nodules varj from a pea to a walnut in size, and are either iron grey or nearly black in colour: all trace of the vesicular structure of the lung is lost in them, but the smaller are formed of the thickened walls of bron- chioles. Even the less altered parts are traversed by bands of connective tissue. The lungs, when cut into, exude more or less of a black fluid, resembling Indian ink, which is most abundant in the lungs of miners. The bronchial glands are also enlarged and black, and yield a similar black fluid. Minute examination shows two principal changes in such lungs, viz., thickening of the alveolar septa, causing in the more altered portions almost complete oblitera- tion of the alveoli; and, secondly, deposition of pigment m small granules or irregular masses through the interstitial connective tissue ; be., in the walls of the air cells, and m linear tracts corre- sponding to the interlobular septa, to the course of vessels and air tubes, and to the subserous connective tissue, t Black pigment is also found in cells, both in mucous corpuscles and m ciliated epithelium. In the cases described by Zenker, where persons were in the habit of inhaling dust of oxide of iron, red pigment was found in corresponding situations. Chemical analysis shows that the black lungs contain a quantity of black matter insoluble in any acids, he., carbon: the lungsot miners contain notable quantities of silica. The disease is then evidently to be described as a chronic destructive pneumonia pro- duced by irritating particles. The presence of excess of carbon m the lungs of stonemasons is, notwithstanding Dr. Greenkows explanations, not quite accounted for; but the Wack pigmeo found in the lungs of all persons after death is clearlv shown to be derived from the' smoke of fire, candles and lamps, which everyone I pSo°nt’ouftl»t Uiese are the stations of the l-T vhich flnk pdi uclcs would naturally tad their way through and out of tin organ.