557 ABNORMAL CONDITION'S OF THE PERITONEUM. Condition of Peritoneum in Ascites.—The peritoneum often ap- pears somewhat thickened, of a dull, dense, whitish sodden aspect in cases of chronic ascites. We have examined the membrane thus altered, but were unable to find any very marked alteration in texture, only that the tissue seemed more granular and less purely _ fibrous than natural. A local change of somewhat the ' same kind is often seen in the peritoneal covering of the liver and ■ the spleen. In these it forms dense whitish patches, which shade off gradually at their margins, and are for the most part quite free from hands of adhesion on the surface. The change in the splenic capsule is often so great that it has been termed i' cartilagimfica- tion.” When the exudation, which in all these cases takes place : into the subserous tissue, contracts and draws the part together, ■ it produces “ lobulated lamime, and projecting granulations,” of a firm, dense structure. Calcareous matter is sometimes deposited m these fibrous formations, and gives rise to “compact, smooth or uneven lobulated plates of varying thickness.” It appears fifrom Bokitanskv’s account, that false membranes, the result of inflammation, may be so disposed as to form serous cysts, which obtain an internal smooth lining, and are either pedunculated or - sessile on the peritoneum. Cancer, or some form of malignant growth, attacks the peritoneum cnmn irniwr imnn rtrt r-^ 71 1 1 I ni 1 -*■ J ^ u-i/tauixo tuo utjiituueum : m some very rare cases primarily, but most often by an adjoining t growth extending to it, “perforating it, and penetrating into its cavity Ihe disease is sometimes of the Encephaloid variety but more often of the Colloid. The latter, when the process of develop- ■ -ment is acute is often spread over the entire serous surface, in the • lorn of small, miliary nodules, in some parts clustered together. • Sometimes it occurs as a layer of areolar cancerous tissue, vary- mg in thickness, or as a circumscribed, round, lobulated aggrega- tion. The omentum is very commonly found to shrivel up and to degenerate into a transverse band ; or, in the opposite case, with an enormous increase of size into areolar cancer.” This generalized •cancer of the peritoneum may occur either in consequence of the Bursting of a softened .tumour in some adjacent organ, when the ■•mail growths appear as if sown over the surface; or else by .xtensum without any actual softening or distribution of material ■ n winch case the peritoneal growth is usually more local We mve seen a cystic sarcoma cause by rupture into the peritoneal the growth of hundreds of small tumours on its suface Sar =ousgrowthsnot uncommonly originate in the post-peritoneal mar tissue just in front of the spine. In this part they are • y adherent to tho vertebra;; are of homogeneous (probablv scirrhous) texture, and confounded with the crura of the rnll^T; iIn. lts periPheral parts the Ri-owth has a more loose nass froUiateid 8trU?T- ■lJr- Walshe'. Progress of thl o il,! ? lts Point of origin, says, “it spreads upwards, extends amma. ShfvJ’1'68868 Uuder th? llver’. Ponetrates between the Wco of the transverse mesocolon, twists round the duodenum