CHAPTER XXXVII ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PANCREAS, AND THE OTHER SALIVARY GLANDS. These are not very numerous. Congenital deficiency is observed only in very imperfect monstrosities, and excess of development is very rare. Hypertrophic enlargement, Rokitansky states, is alto- gether unusual, and when it does occur, affects chiefly the cel- lular tissue, which is interwoven with the glandular. We have, however, examined one specimen in which the ultimate vesicles weie stuffed with epithelium to such a degree, that their investing fibroid envelopes appeared stretched and distended, and the whole- gland was of a very remarkable density. We think minor degrees of this condition are not uncommon. Atrophy of the pancreas takes place in some instances spon- taneously, chiefly in advanced age; or it may result from chronic inflammation, or fatty degeneration. The organ may be soft and lax, or of leathery consistence. Inflammation, at least in the acute form, but rarely attacks the pancreas; it is, however, not infrequent in the other salivary glands, where it constitutes the disease termed Mumps. We have seen inflammation and suppuration of the parotid gland occur as the result of fever. The phenomena of inflammation are the same here as in other similar parts. The gland swells considerably, partly from the congestion of its vessels with blood, partly from exudation into the areolar tissue which envelopes it. In the ordi- nary case of mumps suppuration rarely takes place, and simple resolution occurs; but when the result is less favourable, the glandular structure becomes, in a measure, fused with the inter- stitial exudation, and probably penetrated by it also, and the whole mass softens and breaks down into purulent matter. This had occurred in the case of fever above alluded to. The suppura- tion may affect the whole gland, or be limited to distinct spots and form an abscess. Chronic inflammation of the parotid induces condensation, induration of the cellular tissue, obliteration of the acini, and either permanent enlargement, or subsequent atrophy