DEGENEKATIONS OF THE KIDNEY. 678 commonly regarded as producing a typical form of this degenera- tion ; but the type of kidney disease thus produced is not always the same. Fatty Degeneration.—This condition is very common, so much so that it can he hardly called a disease. Dr. Dickinson found out of sixty-eight healthy kidneys twenty-five in which the epithelium con- tained distinct fat globules, while in a still larger number the epithe- lium was granular. The renal epithelium of dogs and cats is also commonly fatty, as was shown by Mr. Simon. When fatty degeneia- tion occurs in a healthy kidney, or one not seriously diseased, it o-iyes a yellow colour to the cortex which is chiefly seen m a belt just outside the bases of the pyramids, where they form a transition to cortical substance. If more advanced, the change may extend over the whole of the cortical portion, but the epithelium of the straight tubes is seldom or never fatty. It is doubtful how far tatty degeneration, taken alone, can be said to constitute a disease of the kidneys. . „ , , . . , , In extreme cases the fatty change is found to involve not only the epithelium, but the stroma, the capillary blood-vessels, and the Malpighian tufts. The extreme cases of uncomplicated fatty kidney are met with chiefly accompanying pulmonary phthisis, but are not to be con- founded with those in which there is lardaceous disease also. Tatty degeneration is, however, an accompaniment of several important morbid processes, and is itself the outcome of the granular degene- ration just described. ... Lardaceous Degeneration.—This disease as it affects the kidney pre- sents certain peculiarities important to notice. It occurs in two tolerably distinct forms. In the first, which is by far the commoner, the kidney is much enlarged, smooth, pale, anaemic, the surface and cortical portion mot- tled with translucent and opaque yellowish patches, the substance firm and elastic. The addition of iodine produces both a general yellow colour and an orange or brown tint in small specks scattered through the cortex, which are in fact enlarged and degenerated Malpighian glomeruli, while the smaller arteries are sometimes stained in the same way. In the second form disease the kidney is smaller than the normal, its substance is Fig. 155. Malpighian tufts, and a small artery of tlie kidney affected with lardaceous degeneration. (After Kindfleisch.)