INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. 684 static congestion is especially liable to take place in fevers, in severe cases of which the blood is so commonly found fluid after death. Redness, resulting from mere staining of the tissues, is sometimes very similar to that of active hypcnemia. The injection which takes place from engorgement of the veins may be distin- guished from that of inflammation, by the circumstance of its being always traceable to distended veins; and, further, we think, by the redness being more general than that of inflamma- tion commonly is. As a rule, the smaller and more isolated the patch of injection is, the more likely is it to be inflammatory; thus we find small separate patches of injection around com- mencing typhoid deposits, which contrast with the generally pale mucous membrane. . Catarrhal Inflammation. —Inflammation, affecting chiefly the mucous lining of the intestines, was distinguished by Cullen as enteritis erytliematica. It corresponds to the muco-ententis of others, especially the French pathologists. Rokitansky speaks of it as catarrhal inflammation, which may be either acute or chronic, and either attack the mucous membrane uniformly, or be developed mainly in the villi and the follicles. It is excited by. various causes of irritation, and especially by certain atmospheric influences. 4 4 The anatomical signs of the acute form are, moi e Ox less intense redness and injection of the mucous membrane, affect- ing its entire surface, or appearing as punctiform reddening from affection of the villi, or as a vascular halo sunounding the follicles; relaxation of the tissue and intumescence of the mucous membrane equaRy affecting the entire substance, or only the villi and follicles; opacity of the mucous membrane and its epithelium, from infiltration of the former and softening of the latter; friability and softening of the mucous membrane. The sub- mucous cellular tissue is injected, relaxed, and infiltrated witn a watery, opaque fluid ; the secretion is at first copious and serous; as the affection increases in intensity the former diminishes in amount, becomes opaque, viscid, and purifcrm. Chronic Inflammation is characterized, in addition to the above signs, by a dark, rusty, livid discoloration, which in severe cases appears to pervade the entire mucous membrane; by a tunn state of the mucous membrane and its follicles, accompanied by increased density of the tissue, with copious secretion of an opaque greyish-white, or yellow puriform mucus. The acute torrn may subside completely, or several relapses occurring it may merge into the chronic, which seldom “ admits of a complete cure, following are the principal changes produced by chronic intestinal catarrh. (1) A more or less abundant deposit ol black pigment in the whole mucous membrane, or in its villi or lolhc es on • (2) A permanent tumefaction of the mucous membrane, depend- ing probably on dilatation of its vessels and interstitial exudation, which causes increased density of its tissue, and ma\ give rise higher degrees to elongation of the membrane, and formation ol