GOO INTESTINAL CHANGES IN SPECIFIC DISEASES. are variable, and in rapid cases, dying in the stage of collapse, very slight changes only are sometimes seen. The mucous mem- brane is injected, sometimes very brightly, and oedematous. The solitary follicles and also the Peyer’s patches, especially the former, are often enlarged, of a whitish colour, and firmer consistence than in simple catarrhal conditions. Occasionally ulceration occurs and small follicular ulcers are formed, while the process may, in the colon, extend so as to form wide shallow ulcers (Klebs). Patches of false membrane, resembling those of diphtheria, are sometimes met with in later stages; they are described as firmly adherent and not removed without some lesion of the mucous membrane. The contents of the intestines after death from cholera have been very carefully examined. They are chiefly made up of a large quantity of very watery fluid, holding in suspension flakes of mucus, large quantities of detached epithelium in the form both of separate cells and continuous layers (chiefly in small intestine); obscure, finely-divided granular matter: and certain peculiar organized bodies, regarded as vegetable parasites. This agrees with the composition of the well-known “rice-water" stools passed during life; except that the latter contain no epithelium, which is therefore probably detached by post-mortem maceration. The liquid portion, as has been pointed out by Klebs, agrees very closely in the composition with the secretion poured out in the ileum after the section of the intestinal nerves (by Moreau), con- taining about eleven to fourteen per mill, of solid parts, of which three to six are organic and eight inorganic. It contains in solu- tion chiefly chloride of sodium with little potash or phosphoric acid and usually urea. The organized bodies found both in the intestinal contents and the stools appear to belong to a species of fungus; sometimes thought to be the actual cause of the disease. Cholera Fungus.— Many observers, of whom the earliest were Budd, Brittan and Swayne, in 1849, the latest Beale, Klob, Hallier and Thome, have observed some form of fungus in choleraic stools. The forms usually seen are those of cysts or sporangia, containing spores which ultimately escape by rupture of the envelope. The cysts are found detached or connected in rows. According to Hallier, a form of jointed fungus may be obtained by cultivation from choleraic stools which produces sporangia precisely similar to these ; and from the spores the fungus itself may be reproducer. He compares the fungus to certain forms parasitic upon grasses ; and as it is different from any European form, he suggests that n may be derived from an Asiatic form parasitic on rice. Beside the special forms of parasite above described, ordinary bacteria (or micrococci) and sarcinse are found in the evacuations, but there is no reason for ascribing to them any special relation to the disease. . . , Intestinal Changes in Leuchcemia.—The follicles of the intestinal tract show their connection with the lymphatic system by some- times participating in the changes which lymphatic structures