MORBID ALTERATIONS OF FUNCTION. 0 a are drawn with the air into the lungs they pass into the blood; for it is impossible that the gases contained in the blood shall not, aaccording to the law of heterogeneous attraction, be exchanged in I part for those which are diffused in the air cells and cavities of the 1 lungs. As little doubt can there be that the blood, as it is the tfirst to receive, so it is also the first to be modified and altered (from its healthy composition by the inhaled miasm. In the great ‘•class of inflammations, the affection of the tissue and of the blood imust proceed pari passu; so intimately is the blood concerned in eevery stage of the process, that it may almost be said both blood ..and tissue are alike the seat of the disease; but the latter mani- ffestly has the initiative. Rheumatic and gouty inflammations imust, however, be excepted, in which the blood is apparently the (primary seat of morbid alteration. Scrofulous disease has been tthought to commence in the blood, and to produce in it a change, of the nature of which we are ignorant, but which issues in the . deposit of a peculiar matter in various localities. In diseases arising from excess in eating and drinking, or from unwholesome .aliment, the blood in some cases, and the alimentary canal in cothers, may be primarily affected. When we consider what the (processes of nutrition and secretion imply, how the blood is a vast 1 laboratory, in which some secretions are actually prepared, and tthe materials of others; how it conveys to each part the nutriment tthat is appropriate to it, and receives back in return principles .more or less effete; how continually it is receiving supplies of •new matter from without, and undergoing depuration by various appointed emunctories; in short, if we consider how thoroughly the different solid and fluid parts of the frame are correlated, and mutually dependent, we shall perceive most clearly that it is :far more important to be fully aware of the extreme liability, nay, : necessity, of the solids to be affected by the fluids, and the fluids by the solids, and that thus the disorder of one part may bo the exponent of the error of another, than to attempt an almost impos- ■ sible definition of the exact origin and site of a disease. MORBID ALTERATIONS OF FUNCTION. These alterations, which would fill so important a chapter in a ’ work on medicine, must occupy a much less conspicuous place in 1 * work on pathological anatomy. For if such alterations arc ; dependent on any structural changes, whether anatomical or humoral, of the organs, they will be described under another head. If, on the other hand, they cannot be traced to any organic ' but are PurelY functional derangements, they are then bv definition excluded from the scopo of this work. The question which has often been raised, whether there is such a thin- as purely functional derangement, has already been discussed °