593 TUBEKCTJLAR DISEASE OF THE INTESTINES. happens before the complete separation of the slough, since it depends on an extension of the" morbid process to deeper parts than its original seat. According to Dr. Murchison, perfora- tion may occur in three ways, either(1) by rupture of the attenuated coats; (2) by continuance of the ulcerative action leading to a pin-hole perforation; (3) by sloughing of the entire thickness of the bowel and dropping out of the sloughs. Trousseau declares that “most commonly, the blood is exhaled by the mucous surface, just as in epistaxis” (vol. i. p. 230). Hrnmor- lkage may occur apparently from mere excessive hyperiemia in early stages, or from the margin of the ulcers, but the most severe bleedings occur when the progressive ulceration has reached some comparatively large vessel, which may sometimes be seen distinctly eroded on the floor of the ulcer. TUBERCULAR DISEASE OE THE INTESTINES. Tubercle selects the small and large intestines not unfre- quently as its seat of deposit. It is met with more frequently f1 A *ien th,n- m aduits> ib the proportion of sixty-one to forty-three, and is more than twice as frequent in the small as m the large intestines. In the majority of cases the affec- r°* 0f ^Stines is secondary to that of the lungs, and Usually takes place after the tubercles in the latter have begun to suppurate, and the cachexia has become fully developed The course of intestinal tuberculosis is “frequently chronic, but much often acute. The seat of the deposit is the submucous tissue or the conum of the mucous membrane, it is certainly subjacent to the basement membrane, and not contained in the follicles as rfi. Carswell taught. llokitansky states that there is, in the chronm form ‘ no perceptible inflammatory action, and the disease appears in the shape of the grey transparent granulation, whicn sottens at its centre, and is gradually converted from within out- Wdids, into the yellow cheesy tubercle. It seems blended with the mucous membrane, and projects into the intestinal cavity in the dPe 0 a sessile, hard nodule. Considerable inflammatory action afrends upon acute tuberculosis. The disease affects first Peyer’s Dm hes, then the solitary glands, and lastly, other parts of the someUf jrT6' Theafi'ect|0n of the P°yer’s patches is often partial, some fomcles escaping altogether, while adjacent ones are in an advanced stage of disease. The affected follicles enlarge and 8urr'a0 ipfiltrated with small cells, which are also found in the then'Tvenow^8' *,olllclu 18 at fir?t Srey and translucent, bon a yellow opaque speck appears m the centre, the caseous ange spreads through the mass, aud at length softening coni mences, which spreads from the surface, so that £ Peverfs glands several small ulcers are formed, while tho solitary glands q a