VASCULAR TUMOURS. 149 may open up communication between two adjacent capillary loops, and thus increase the number of vessels. Still more recently the process of new formation of capillaries has been observed, actually proceeding under the miscroscope in the tissues of living animals by Strieker, Golubew, Arnold, and others. Arnold observed the reproduction of a tadpole’s tail, which had been amputated, and traced the series of changes represented in our figure. Solid protoplasmic buds were seen to grow from the walls of previously existing blood vessels, forming cords, and by their junction loops, which ultimately became hollowed out, and formed capillary vessels. The figure shows the changes observed in a single capil- lary outgrowth within twelve horn’s. Newly-formed capillaries are distinguished from those previously existing by their much greater width and often irregular outline. Their walls sometimes contain more numerous nuclei. Vascular tumours are made up (it may be with other constituents also) of newly-formed blood vessels, or partly of previously existing blood vessels enlarged and altered. There are two kinds of them:—(1) Those composed of vessels similar to normal blood vessels, held together by more or less connective tissue; they are known by the names of simple vascular tumour, angioma simplex, telangiectasis, or angiectoma; (2) Those composed of a system of communicating spaces, with simple fibrous walls lined by an epithelium, similar to the cavernous tissue of erectile organs s known as cavernous tumours, angioma cavernosum, nsevus cavernosus. To the first class belong the ordinary nsevi, either congenital or belonging to early life. These are flat, or slightly elevated struc- tures, rarely distinctly projecting, which occur especially on the skin of the face, head, or neck, sometimes on mucous surfaces. They are composed mainly of contorted and convoluted capil- laries, sometimes abruptly dilated or varicose, but not without small veins and arteries. Congenital nsevi usually waste and pass away in the first months of life; but they may, by the multiplica- tion of vessels and absorption of their walls, pass into the next or cavernous form. Cavernous tumours are, however, more frequently of independent growth, though rarely congenital. They are alveolar in structure, being composed of a number of cavities communicating freely with one another in all directions. When cut into they usually collapse from the escape of blood; but if the blood should happen to be coagulated within them, they may form masses of very consider- able weight and solidity. This cavernous structure appears to be always in communication both with veins and arteries, but not always by channels of the same capacity; the openings into the venous channels being generally much wider than the small branches by which blood enters from the arteries. The epitholium by which the cavities are lined, has sometimes been mistaken for cancer cells. The tumours are sometimes clearly defined and