(i7G BLOCKS IN THE KIDNEY. of the arterial branch. This obstruction is generally occasioned by embolism, a fragment of vegetation from a cardiac valve, or some coagulum or atheromatous matter from the heart or aorta. Hence they are especially common in aortic disease accompanied by vegetations on the valves, and in acute endocarditis. Some- times no embolus can be traced, and there appears to have been spontaneous thrombosis in the artery. This is especially likely to occur in fevers, as in typhoid. The blocks in the kidney have a less distinctly conical shape than those in the spleen, the vascular dis- tribution being different, but still this shape is seen in smaller blocks. Eecent infarctions are sometimes dark red, haemorrhagic in appearance, dense, and, if near the surface, somewhat elevated above it, but we do not very often see them in this stage, and possibly some are anaemic from the first. Generally some degene- rative change has set in; then we find a tough yellow mass of “ fibrinous ” appearance, bordered by a very bright belt of scarlet injection (Fig.154), caused by collateral hypersemia. Later on, the necrosis of the central portions continues, and the_ surrounding inflammation results in the production of fibrous tissue. Ulti- mately absorption of the central portion takes place, and nothing but a mass of newly-formed fibrous tissue remains, which, as is usually the case with such tissue, suffers contraction till a puckered cicatrix only is left.* This change explains the irregular form of many kidneys in cases of heart disease. The microscopical examination of blocks in an early stage shows the natural structure of the kidney much engorged, and with Hemor- rhagic and inflammatory products in the tubules, hence this is one cause of renal Hemorrhage. At a later period little structure can be made out in the central portions which chiefly consist of granular amorphous material like degenerated fibrin. In the peripheral portions new growth of nucleated connective tissue^ is observed. Pytemic blocks may sometimes be mistaken for the infarctions just described, but in them, though there may be vascular obstruction, the inflammatory changes ending in sup- puration greatly preponderate. Capillary embolisms are) often regarded as entirely belonging to pycemia, but do not appear necessarily to do so. They occur generally, if not always, in acute endocarditis. We there often find the surface of the kidney covered with ecchymotic spots and with small blocks going a little way into the substance. Similar blocks may be seen in the interior of the kidney. Both parts show a vivid injection round the blocks which are yellowish in the * The actual time occupied in these changes is uncertain, but the following obsMra- t.ion made hv Dr. Herman Weber of a case where embolic blocks existed in both kidneys, gives an approximate date. That in the right, which was diagnosed as havurff occurred thirty-eight days before death, was already shrunk below the lei el of the surrounding tissue, while those in the left kidney, having occurred between a week and a fortnight later, were still slightly prominent above the level of the sunwmning tissue but without the elevated red margin seen in still more recent cases. ( Trans.