741 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS. Paraphymosis is the opposite condition, in which a tight prepuce, having been drawn back, constricts the neck of the glans, from having itself become thickened, and thus occasions a distended state of the glans, and even mortification unless the stricture be removed. Phymosis is apt to give rise to attacks of balanitis, from the accumulation of the secretions of the coronal follicles. New Growths.— Warty vegetations sometimes form on the glans, or on the inside of the prepuce; they are commonly the result of the irritation of foul urethral discharges, and are capable of being cured effectually by removal. Cancer may affect any part of the penis, but is most frequent on the glans and prepuce. Cases of sarcoma (in two instances mela- notic, and made up of spindle cells) have been recorded in this posi- tion. And still more rarely a scirrhous infiltration of the body of the penis has been observed, but by far the most common form of cancer here is epithelioma The disease may originate as a warty excrescence, or as a pimple which discharges an excoriating fluid, scabs, and breaks out afresh, while induration advances at its base ; or it may infiltrate the glans, so as to convert that part into an indurated mass. After a lengthened interval ulceration supervenes and sometimes spreads with rapidity, destroying all neighbouring tissues in its march, and causing at times great pain. In rare in- stances the warty vegetations—which can with difficulty be distin- guished from simple growths at first—spread down the urethra, but more commonly the superficial structures suffer most. The histo- logical characters are those of ordinary squamous-cell epithelioma. Secondary growths, except in the adjacent glands, are not of com- mon occurrence. Phymosis and the irritation attending upon it, seem to act as exciting causes; advanced age as predisposing, whilst, in some few instances, direct contagion from a cancerous uterus has been alleged to be present.