CANCER OF THE MAMMA. 7S i small-celled infiltration is quite unconnected with the growth of the epithelial or special cells of the cancer, except in so far as the latter act as an irritant. The question is still sub judice, and we can express no opinion about it, except that our experience agrees with Wal- deyer in being unable to trace a transition between small-celled infiltration and formation of alveoli. The fibrous stroma appears to he the result of the former process. It varies much in amount. The axillary lymphatic glands are commonly swollen, hard, and infiltrated with the same carcinomatous products as the mamma ; their affection appears to he coincident with the implication of the skin at the primary seat of injury. The pectoral muscles, the ribs, and costal cartilages are also found secondarily involved to a greater or less extent; a secondary affection of the pleura and the lung is not unfrequent. Towards the termination of the disease, from direct interference with the venous circulation, oedema of the extremity of the affected side is liable to supervene. Billroth and some of the German pathologists distinguish the very hard and early atrophic forms of hard cancer as true scirrhus, and call others in which the atrophic tendency is less marked, simple cancer or carcinoma simplex. This distinction is not usually adopted in this country, and the question is one mainly for practical surgeons; we only mention it here to avoid the confusion of synonyms. Medullary, or Soft Cancer.—This is said to occur earlier in life, and to run a more rapid course than scirrhus, out of which it is sometimes developed, and to give rise to tumours of great size. It is soft, easily breaks down, and is particularly liable to-ulceration, sloughing, or vascular growth, in the form of what was at one time called fungus hsematodes. The structure is more or less vascular, often white or cream-coloured, and brain-like or en- cephaloid in appearance. The minute structure of these tumours is chiefly cellular, the -fibrous stroma being unimportant. The development is said to show unmistakeable continuity with the glandular structure of the breast, commencing with solid out- growths of glandular epithelium. Colloid Cancer of the Breast.—This form of tumour is extremely rare. In most of the cases which have been observed it has been combined with another form of cancer, either medullary or scirrhus * and even in specimens where no other kind of tumour is obvious, minute examination may show that the colloid mass results from the degeneration of groups of cells contained in cancerous alveoli (p. 176). It produces very marked local infiltration, and may be reproduced in distant parts. We have seen very extensive infiltra- tion and ulceration over nearly the whole of the chest. A similar case is described by Doutrelepont.j- For the clinical history of mammary cancer, the influence of * Croft, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. p. 265, pi x •+ Langenbeck’s “Archiv. fUr Klin. Chirurgio,” vol.' xii. p. 561, pi. ix.