INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVES. G18 1. Solitary, or Tropical Abscess.—Iho iormei rareij u vessels empty, and afterwards filled with water by injection, that there was a gain of weight amounting on the average to one-third. Such a state may well produce a sense of weight and fulness m the right hypochondrium. ,. . Causes of Congestion.-The most frequent cause of congestion to any degree that can be considered morbid is organic disease of the heart, especially such as produces great obstruction to thecircula- lation, and throws the blood back upon the right side of the heart, and the venous system in general. All causes of apncea produce the same effect, and act in the same way. Congestion thus induced is passive; active congestion takes place m inflammation of the liver, or, as we have observed, when large doses of calomel are administered. Active congestion may be produced also by various irritants, as alcohol, and is in some degree physiological, as an accompaniment of the digestive process. The congestion occurs in the cold stage of ague and other fevers seems to depend not solely on the recession of the blood from the surface, but chiefly on paresis of the vasal nerves of the organ. Portal venous congestion is a rare variety of partial: the centre* of the lobules are pale, and are surrounded by continuous red zones. It is said to occur in children only. Ecemorrhagic effusion may take place as the result of extreme congestion, but this is rare ; the blood may be poured out either on the surface, detaching the capsule for some ^tent, or d^r in the substance of the organ. The former occurrence Rokitansky states is most common in new-born infants, and may er0n proceed to such an extent as to rupture the serous investment, and allo , the escape of blood into the peritoneal cavity. The deep-seated extravasations occur more frequently m adulte tom the super- ficial, and constitute apoplectic spots of various forms and size. After their partial absorption a fibrous cicatrix remains. Haemorrhage in the substance is sometimes seen in ^curvy purpura haemorrhagica. Severe bleeding into t e P®n °° f follows rupture of the liver, and maybe the unmediate came of death. Nevertheless, even this may be healed, and recovery ta place. INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. Inflammation may affect either the substanra of the orcan, chiefly Hepatitis, or its capsule Perihepatitis. The foimer , temperate climates, a rather rare affection, the latter extremely common. The only well-marked form of acute inflammafaon of SrSver is the purulent. Other affections, sometimes called inflammation, appear to be better described as egen^^ ^ Purulent hepatitis, or abscess, occurs m two forms ( ) . tropical abscess ; (2) multiple, or occurs in this