MORBUS BRIGHTII. 687 Drawing of atrophied kidney. pyramids somewhat more vascular. This condition presents, especi- ally externally, an unmistakable analogy with cirrhosis of the liver; the granulations corresponding to the yellow projecting masses of degenerated tissue. At the same time the intervening Fig. is\ tissue in the kidney is less vascular; as might be ex- pected, considering the double system of afferent vessels in the liver. Hence this has been called the cirrhotic form of kidney disease. The cap- sule is always very adherent, but it is worth noticing that, sometimes, when it is thick- ened, a layer of it may be peeled off, leaving behind an apparently smooth surface. The cortical part is most affected by the atrophy, being reduced, in extreme cases, to a layer two or three lines in thickness; the medullary cones suffer in a less degree. The external form is often remarkably lobulated, reminding one of that oi the foetal kidney. Microscopic Appearances.— The renal tissue is found in this form of kidney to have perished extensively, and this generally in pro- portion to the shrinking of their size. In extreme cases, one may scarce find m a section anything of the secreting structure except mere granular debris, some of these, perhaps, still preserving the contour of the original tube, but the greater part constituting an indefinite shapeless mass. In other, less advanced, cases, and in some parts, indeed, of all, the tubes are still discernible : they are irregularly distended, and opaque with granular contents, which have well-mgh, or perhaps completely, blocked up their canals Uiiy molecules, sometimes accumulated in considerable quantity he here and there amid the granular matter, and increase the opacity greatly. The granulations are made up of the infarcted convolutions of tubes, and are the parts in which most traces of the natural structure still persist; they remain prominent, because the intervening parts have perished and shrunk in. The atrophied tubes and Malpighian bodies will then be found separated by what is the most important structure in the cirrhotic kidney, a nucleated or small-celled tissue, which m some parts shows definite fibrous organization. This is evidently a species of newly-formed con- En5 £s?ue>.antl> aa «uch- possesses the power of contraction usually belonging to such tissue. It is to its shrinking that the irregularities of the outline in the granular kidney are due. The