192 OPERATIONS FOR EXTIRPATION OF CANCER. liquors has no effect in inducing carcinomatous disease of this organ though it may have sometimes produced a state of simple induration, which has been mistaken for scirrhus. It is, however, not to be denied, that irritation may in some cases determine the formation of a cancer; as, for instance, in the scrotal cancer of chimney-sweeps, which certainly seems to be called into existence from a latent predisposition by the irritation of soot. Results of Operations.—In concluding this subject, we may offer a few remarks with reference to the effects of removing cancerous tumours by operation. In the first place, it is quite clear that the disease- is manifestly constitutional, and that no sound, real cure can be expected from merely removing its external development. Secondly, it is matter of experience, that in not a few instances surgical interference with one tumour has provoked the speedy appearance of several others. Thirdly, any attempt at removal is useless; nay, may be absolutely injurious, unless every particle of cancerous structure is taken away. Fourthly, epithelial cancers seem least prone to return after removal; encephaloid invariably does, and mostly with great rapidity; scirrhus may be checked m its progress, but fts return can very rarely be prevented The check which may be given by operation to the progress of cancer depends on the circumstance before stated, that a tumour, once formed, be- comes an instrument for the multiplication of similar tumours and intensification of the diathesis. It must requiiu^ combination of favourable circumstances, or a great intensity of the diathesis, to ensure the development of effused blastema into an heterologous growth, but when this has taken place, then the very growth and vital actions of the structure will constantly generate fresh supplies of cancerous blastema, and thus promote the formation o secondary cancers. The destruction, therefore, of the growth, which thus reacts so evilly upon the system, may be exnected if it do not aggravate, to delay the cause of the disc. - • But toe misfortune is,'that, as above stated, it does sometimes „ o-o-ravate and that fearfully, a previously indolent cancerous diathesis ’ Dr. Walshe says, “excision of a tumour seems to awaken a dormant force, cancers spring up m aU toectmns and otiIotcta with a nower of vegetation almost incredible. >' ny ano in a person of phthisical tendency. The two pnnciples^re ferred to of the cancerous tumour, in one caserdinc it. are increasing the force of the disease, an in ai > .' . different not contradictory, though opposite: t iej 'V j £ tumour and degrees in different instances, according to the kind ot tumou , other circumstances.