TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS. 728 this disease, taken from the body of a man, the subject of general tuberculosis, and showing the testis somewhat enlarged, and thickly beset with grey firm semi-translucent pin-head nodules, none broken down, nor the seat of any notable fatty change. These miliary granules are usually seated in the delicate inter- tubular connective tissue, and tend, by their coalescence and sub- sequent degeneration, to form irregular iron-grey, or partly cheesy masses, indistinguishable in their later stages from the nodules already described under the head of scrofulous and syphilitic orchitis. Indeed, in all these inflammatory affections of the testicle, although up to a certain point the pathological changes may be tolerably distinct, a stage is reached before long in which all the tissues of the organ partaking in the destructive processes, the tough grey or yellow nodule resulting affords no histological clue to the mode in which the changes have been brought about. For an inflammatory process inside the tubes will speedily set up irritative changes in the surrounding connective tissue, whilst this connective tissue will not long continue inflamed without involving to a greater or less extent the epithelial elements of the tubes adjoining. Secondary abscesses have been found in the testicle, apparently as the result of pyaemia, in connection with synovitis of the shoulder joint and lobular pneumonia. A preparation of this kind is in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital. TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS. Cancer is met with occasionally in the testis, occurring there almost invariably as a primary disease, the most frequent form being soft carcinoma, called by Abernethy “ Medullary Sarcoma.” Some part of the body of the testis being first affected, the new growth gradually invades the whole organ, entirely replacing the normal tissues, and involving to some extent the tunics, but rarely infiltrating the skin, save in exceptional instances of tumours fungating through an opening in the scrotum. The fibroid alveolar stroma so characteristic of this form of cancer is usually well marked, but the cell forms contained in its meshes are sometimes so small and regular as to suggest rather a lymphoma or small round-cell sarcoma than true carcinoma. In one such case which we examined, the histological appearances of the testicle-tumour were very peculiar, the structural arrangement being quite that of carcinoma, but the cells being all spherical—not much larger than leucocytes—and contained in long parallel slit-like meshes of the stroma. In this instance, however, the patient died some months later, and in large secondary formations in the lumbar glands, and scattered through the abdomen, the ordinary elements of carcinoma with large epithelioid cells were abundantly present.