4-16 THE BRONCHIAL TUBES. Coknkoim have shown the possibility of this method of extravasa- tion. Haemorrhage is not a mere passive occurrence, resulting from a retardation of the vascular current, or we should find it accompanying hypostatic congestion, which it does not; it must he looked upon as an evidence of further disease of an active character, as a symptom calling for our careful attention, but only to he treated in reference to a fundamental affection. Hcemorrhage from the lungs rarely proves fatal in itself, though at times the amount of blood lost is very considerable. Dr. Copland quotes the case of a patient who lost about 192 ounces in '.wenty- four hours and recovered. The frequency with which it is associ- ated with phthisis, has been determined by Louis to be about two- thirds of a LI the cases; a relation which is confirmed by recent observers, and one which, taken with other circumstances, casts much suspicion on the nature of the cases of so-called vicarious haemorrhages, whether they are supposed to take the place of the menstrual or hiemorrhoidal discharge. The difficulty of explaining the mode in which hsemoptysis takes place, is as great in regard to the stages of softening as in the earlier stage of crudity; the vessels become obliterated in the former instance as the tubercular matter and pulmonary tissues deliquesce, and we rarely are able to discover the open mouths of lacerated vessels. At a future page we shall also have occasion to see that the haemorrhage into the tissue of the organs constituting pulmonary apoplexy, is distinct from that bronchial haemorrhage with which luemoiitysis is commonly associated. In either stage, therefore, of tubercular disease, it is possible that the discharge takes place from the bronchial mucous membrane. The relation of haemoptysis to the different stages of phthisis, is one to which Dr. "Walske* has especially directed his attention; the results of an analysis of the cases which had occurred at the Hospital for Con- sumption at Brompton, in reference to this question, are as follow: Number of Casea. Frequency of Hfemoptysis. Absolute. i Per Cent. First stage 39 2S 7179 Second stage 20 IS 90 00 Third stage 69 57 S261 The proportion changes somewhat, when the analysis is made for each of the sexes; we then find that the increase of haemoptysis during the second and third stages is considerably greater in men than in women, which may fairly be explained by the greater bodily labour, and increased tax upon the pulmonary circulation, 0 “ Medico-Chimrgicul Review,” vol. iii. p. 225.