63 CAUSES OF HyEHOKRHAGE. affects males much, more than females, and more severely. Dr. Copland states that hemorrhages are more common in the off- spring of parents who have suffered from them than in others, and that the tendency is observed in several members oi the same family. Hemorrhage from the rectum, urinary organs, and uterus, is said by Chomel to occur oftener in cold than in warm seasons, and epistaxis and hemoptysis to be more frequent in summer than in winter. Dr. Prout observed a peculiar tendency to renal hemorrhage during the time that cholera was prevalent. Age has an influence in determining the seat of hemorrhage. Epistaxis is most common in children, hemoptysis in the. early period of life, and hemorrhoidal discharge and apoplexy in the aged. Changes in the Effused Blood.—The blood, when effused, may remain in a liquid state for some time, or quickly coagulate. When it is poured out into the substance of a part, it under- goes, after a time, the changes which are commonly observed when a superficial part has been bruised. These consist m alteration of the colour of the haemoglobin, which passes “ from a dark-red into a blue, then into a brown, and lastly into a yellow colour, before it entirely disappears.” At the same time the blood-globules, at least in many cases, undergo peculiai changes; they become massed together, and sometimes included in a kind of cellular envelope; they waste and shrink up, until there remain at last only minute yellow or orange-red granules, which evidently consist chiefly of pigment. Such are not unffe- quently found in the straight tubuli of kidneys affected with morbus Brightii; they are the undoubted records of former hmmorrhage. Black pigment may also be the final stage in the transformation of haemoglobin. In some cases the altered hsematine takes tho form of crystalloid, elongated, rectangular tablets, which vary very much in size, and are coloured more or less deeply by red matter. The formation of these seems to be promoted by the addition of water. They were extremely well seen in a case which Ejg. 4.