816 MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. ated particles, intermixed, especially in the latter, with fibres and blood-vessels; and, in the former, with tubercular granular matter. In the immediate vicinity, and on both sides of the irregular edge of the section of cartilage, where it is connected to the membrane, certain remarkable appearances are seen. These consist, on the side of the cartilage, of a change in the shape and size of the car- tilage corpuscles. Instead of being of their usual form, they are larger, rounded, or oviform; and instead of two or three nucleated cells in their interior, contain a mass of them. At the very edge of the ulcerated cartilage, the cellular con- tents of the enlarged cartilage cor- puscles communicate with the dis- eased membrane by openings more or less extended. Some of the ovoidal masses in the enlarged cor- puscles may be seen half released from their cavities by the removal of the cartilage; and others of them may be observed in the substance of the false membrane, close to the cartilage, where they have been left by the entire removal of the car- tilage which originally surrounded them. If a portion of the false mem- brane be gradually torn off the car- tilage, the latter will appear rough and honeycombed. Into each de- pression on its surface, a nipple-like projection of the false membrane penetrates. The cavities of the enlarged corpuscles of the cartilage open on the ulcerated surface by orifices of a size proportional to the extent of absorption of the walls of the corpuscles, and of the free sur- face of the cartilage. The texture of the cartilage does not exhibit, during the progress of the ulceration, any trace of vascularity. The false membrane is vascular, and loops of capillary vessels dip into the substance of the nipple-like projections, which fill the depressions on the ulcerated surface of the cartilage (Fig. 1S9): but. with the exception of the enlargement of the corpuscles, aud the peculiar development of their contents, no change has occurred in it. A layer of nucleated particles always exists between the loops of capillaries and the ulcerated surface. The cartilage, where it is not covered by the false membrane, is unchanged in structure. The membrane generally adheres with some firmness to the ulcer- ating surface; in other instances, it is loosely applied to it; but in all, the latter is accurately moulded to the former. In scrofulous disease of the cancellated texture of the heads of bones, or in cases where the joint only is affected, but to the extent of total destruc- tion of the cartilage, over part or the whole of its extent, the latter Fig. 189. Drawing of ulceration of cartilage. a, Vertical section of ulcerating cartilage magnified, b. Naked-eye view, showing two ulcerated de- pressions.