213 NEilATOID PARASITES. quite capillary, aucl pass rather suddenly into the thicker posterior portion. The sexes are distinct, the male has a long penis invested with a proper sheath. The female produces numerous ova, few of which are probably developed. The worm is found chiefly in the crecum, adhering by its head to the mucous membrane; it is sometimes solitary, sometimes occurs in great numbers ; it does not appear to produce any remarkable symptoms. (6) Ascaris luvibri- coides, a round worm pointed at both ends, from six to fifteen inches long, of a greyish and sometimes red colour, sufficiently translucent to allow the viscera to be seen, marked by two lateral lines corresponding to the principal vessels, and by two others less distinct, and corresponding to the nervous cords on the dorsal and ventral surface. The head is separated from the body by a slight constriction; at its extremity is the mouth, surrounded by three tubercles. The anus is situated on the under surface, near the extremity of the tail. The reproductive organs consist, in the male, of a single seminal tube of great length, terminating in a reservoir about an inch in length, which communicates with the base of the penis; in the female they comprise the vulva, situated at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the body, a vagina five or six lines long, a uterus, which divides into two lorm tortuous oviducts gradually diminishing to capillary ovarian tubes” which are conspicuous by their whiteness, as they are coiled around the intestinal canal, They inhabit chiefly the small intestines, but roam about occasionally up into the gall ducts, the stomach, the oesophagus, and have even made their way into the nostrils and into the mouth, as happened in a girl under our care. It seems proved by Palm’s case* that they may perforate the coats of the intestino and get into the peritoneum. Sometimes they are very numerous ; one patient passed as many as four hundred and sixty in a fortnight, but this is not common; however, one would rather be mchned to expect from the appearance of one that there were others remaining behind. They have been known to accumulate so ns to obstruct the intestines; more commonly they produce only some amount of irritation, or even no symptoms at all. (7) Oxyu.ru vermicularis, a minute, white, threadlike worm, of separate sexes the male about one and a-half lino in length, the female fivo or six; the former has a spirally coiled tail, the latter a straight tapering and very delicate ono. There is a transparent tuberosity ?n t{le head, with a kind of alar membrane on each side. They inhabit the rectum in vast numbers, and may crawl out and get in temales, into the orifices of the adjacent canals. They occasion very distressing irritation, perhaps in consequence of their restless disposition, which formerly obtained for them the name of ascarides [MKafuCuv, to leap). (8) Strongylus gig as, a formidable large round worm, which attains sometimes threo feet in length, and is of n blood-red colour. The male, as usual, is the smaller, is marked • Wurtcmb. Corr. Blatt., 1663, 33, 25.