DISPLACEMENTS OF THE INTESTINE. 578 either from inaction of the muscular coat, or from distension from accumulation of its contents above a stricture. Disease oi the nervous centres, inflammation of the serous investments, or simple atony of its contractile fibres, may he the cause of paralytic in- action and consequent distension. 'When a stricture exists, enormous dilatation sometimes takes place. Andral relates a case in -which the large intestine was so distended that it resembled that of a horse, and concealed almost all the viscera. In sucn cases the muscular coat may be in full and painful activity, not ceasing its action, although unable to overcome the obstruction, but reversing the current (axial) so as to produce lie cal vomiting. It is singular that some of the most extreme cases of dilatation are those in which there is no obstruction; as the remarkable case described by Dr. Peacock, ending in fatal constipation where the | ileum became gradually distended to six or eight inches m diameter (“ Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. xxiii. p. 104). A greatly dilated intestine is never quite normal in structure; sometimes the muscular coat becomes hypertrophied, sometimes all the coats are thinned; and very often the mucous coat is ulcerated. We have nearly always found the latter change both in simple passive dilatation and in that arising from obstruction; and this, rather than violent rup- ture, is most often the cause of the bowel giving away. Contraction of the intestine may occur either throughout a con- siderable extent, or in a very small one. The first is not a con- dition of disease, though it has been mistaken for such, and retak= merely from the canal at that part hemg empty for some tune , so that the natural contracting efforts of the circular fibres are un- opposed, and the sides of tube are brought together. We have seen the descending colon in this way so shrunk as to be scarcely larger than the little finger. Of course this condition is most likely to occur in the part of the intestine below a stricture. The second I kind of contraction of the intestine is almost always morbid, and may result either from external pressure, as froni a strangu at.n band, or compressing tumour, or from disease of the tissue m part affected! The cicatrix of a simple or tuberculous iilcer which has assumed an annular form, or a cancerous giowth at like shape, has in most instances been the cause of stricture originating in the intestine itself. . Changes in the position of the intestine leading to morbid effect., require some particular notice. The most common of th^oon statute the several varieties of hernia. As these are folly in all surgical works, it does not seem necessary to “fke _ine..ho of them here; and we shall therefore confine our attention, fol to the morbid changes of po.rt.oa wtehUW the intestine within the abdominal cavity. A portion c l, ■. nay be twisted upon its own axis, so as to obstruct the canalby tie approximation and contact of the walls. This seems tohave been observed only in the ascending colon. The mesente . twisted upon itself, forming a kind ot cone, with uioie o • j