244 MORBID CONDITIONS OF T1IE VENTRICLES. ETC. monlv supposed tubercle of the brain itself. In one case mentioned bv Dr. Hillier,* abscesses and pustular eruption of the skin seem to have been the primary affection ; and a precisely similar case lias fallen under tbe observation of the editor. Dr. V\ dks t states he has in no case, however young, found the lungs tree ; but the results of other observers are not so absolute.; Collections of cases bearing on this subject have been made by VI eber,, Yalentin,|| besides the authors already quoted. MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE VENTRICLES AND CHOROID PLEXUS. The inner surface of the cerebral ventricles is so closely con- nected with the external membranes of the brain as to be seldom unaffected when these are actively diseased. The precise nature of the structure lining the ventricles is not quite dear scmie nmfomists o-ivino1 and others withholding the name of a true membrane. ° The name ependyma may be used without assuming “inihTmmrfion of the ependyma and choroid plexuses often accompanies meningitis of the base of the brain whether simple or tubercular. In some cases there is seen merely great fulness of the plexuses and remarkable vascularity of the walls (which are normally very pale) accompanied by a considerable accumulation of fluid (which is distinguished from he norma cerebro-spinal fluid bv containing a large amount of albumen and perhaps p and some disintegration of the cerebral substance. In more advanced cases there will be inflammatory surface either of the plexus or the ventricular walls and the fluid contained in the ventricles will be turbid from the presence of uus and of disorganized cerebral tissue. The ventricles are m aU cases greatly distended, and the septumlucidum sometimes broken down° Minute haemorrhages are extremely common both mthe substance and in the inflammatory false membranes. Tlus affection is seldom or never found independently ot true meningitis the cerebral ventricles seems to occur SCS SZ.7tS. The surilce often Merough to the touch and looking at it sideways m a good kght it may be the toucii, ana » minutc granulations, which are generally seen to be coukHraina of very white sand or fragments rfgllr These granulations may be “as large as hemp seeds, . “Diseases of Children” p.172. ^nclon, 1S6S. + Hous'd *'ea^ ’recorded in this work are worth notice.