547 MORBID COUDITIOKS OP THE TEETH. PiQ. 125. It is mostly deficient on the surface, presenting deep pits with the ■ intervening structure well developed; sometimes, however, small cavities exist in its substance, while the rest is perfect. Deep narrow fissures are often met with extending from the free surface ■ to within the y-J-gth of an inch of the dentine; the enamel forming the walls of these is in parts perfect, in parts imperfect. Not only may the enamel he deficient, but it may he also imper- fectly formed in various parts. The columns of fits pulp consist of cells and granules, which, normally, become lost and fused in the homo- : geneous fibre; sometimes this fusion does not take place, and the granules remain, giving the oenamel fibre a permanently granular aspect; or the cells do not undergo their wonted arrange- 1 ment and elongation, and thus, though they calcify, do not form fibres. Sometimes the fibres of the enamel are not perfectly united at their margins; the resulting interspace may either ap- pear as a broad line, or as a series of minute cells. The teeth are subject not only to decay, but to death, to necrosis, which may be either complete or partial. After this has occurred certain physical changes commence. “ The tooth gradually assumes a darker hue than natural, which increases in intensity till it is almost black. The dental periosteum gradually detaches itself from the fang, the tooth becomes loose, and unless held in by the crooked form of the roots, drops out. The surface of the ■tangs is generally rough, and, near the neck, dotted over with nodules of hard cream-coloured tartar, while the ends of the roots often look worm-eaten, as though absorption had commenced.” ■Mr. Tomes compares the process of necrosis of a tooth with that which occasions the shedding of the antlers of a deer. In both the minute tubes or cavities through which nutrient fluid is conveyed ■oecoine obliterated by calcareous deposition; the whole tissue [ ■,emn consolidated into an inorganic mass. The dead tooth acts r is a foreign body, causing inflammation and suppuration of the i cental periosteum, as well as absorption of the latter, the alveolus, l^nclgums. More serious effects are occasionally produced, “the Jenosteum of the alveoli becomes inflamed, together with the Drawing- of tooth attacked by caries, with barrier of se- condary dentine. icighbouring parts: ” and, if the case be still neglected, the ad- dining teeth are not unfrequently lost, and necrosis of a consider- rne part of the jaw may also result. In some instances where ! no death of the tooth has taken place gradually patches of newlv- ormed cemeutum, thrown out by the irritated dental periosteum mere closely to the latter, and thus the tooth is held in its place' ! ^yle spot of necrosis in the fangs may cause inflammation and •oscess and such severe pain, that the tooth, though otherwise , Ute h,iaUhy> ^ obliged to be removed. “ Instances a™