PUERPERAL INFLAMMATIONS. 191 Puerperal endometritis chiefly affects the fundus and body of the uterus, the cervix being little affected. Three forms or degrees of it are distinguished by Rokitansky. In the first the uterus is usually well contracted; the inner surface is covered with purulent or mucous fluid, and where the submucous tissue is laid bare a greenish or yellowish albuminous mass is seen diffused among the muscular fibies. The remainder of the uterine tissue is simply somewhat oedematous. In the second or diphtheritic form the mucous membrane is more conspicuously swollen and injected, and. easily breaks down into a whitish or brownish slough, which may hang on the surface in flakes. In other parts are croupous false membranes, not usually very extensive. There is, as in the other form, albuminous matter in the muscular bundles of the uterine walls. This condition may penetrate to the deeper tissues, and involve the entire thickness of the uterus, which will then, also, be more or less softened and dis- coloured, infiltrated with a low sanious product, and even converted into a mere pulp. The dirty-coloured, Drownish, flocculent matter that is found on the inner surface of the uterus is doubtless in part composed of the remnants of the decidua, to the decomposition of which Klob attributes an important share in the production of puerperal endometritis. With regard to the nature of the false membrane, it should be stated that it somewhat resembles that of diphtheria of the throat; but some pathologists look upon it as connected with a vegetable fungous growth, or associated with low organisms of the bacterial type. Some degree of suppuration and softening of the uterine walls may also be present. The third degree of the disease described by Rokitansky is the septic or putrescent form, rarely seen. It is said to differ from ordinary gangrene. The internal surface of the organ is covered with a thin, opaque, or more dense product, varying in colour from pale green to dark brown, beneath which the tissue, to a greater or less depth, is converted into a similar pulp. Small abscesses are sometimes found in the muscular tissue, without any perceptible change in the surrounding parts; generally, however, the struc- ture of the muscular fibre is entirely destroyed, and the consistence of the organ so altered that it takes the impression of the surround- ing portion if any pressure is applied to it. Certain portions of the organ show complete necrosis; there is at the same time intoler- able foetor of the parts. Endometritis readily extends along the Fallopian tubes, and the inflammatory process is thus conveyed directly to the peritoneum ; hence the frequency of peritonitis following this affection. It is frequently complicated with metritis, and gives rise to thrombosis of the uterine veins, or inflammation of the lymphatics. It may also prove fatal by setting up a general septic condition, oven without the production of abscess or inflammation in distant parts. Metritis, or inflammation of the substance of the uterus, is usuall y