STEW GROWTH OF NERVOUS TISSUE. 151 Rokitansky, aud two. cases of similar tumours in the head of a foetus. Striated muscle has in a very few cases been observed as a part of tumours of different structure. New growth of smooth muscular fibre has never yet been ob- served in the restoration of lost parts or the healing of wounds. It undoubtedly takes place in the hypertrophies of structures which normally contain it, as in the enlargement of the uterus during pregnancy, and in hypertrophy of the prostate, the bladder, the coats of arteries, or the stomach. Tumours consisting of smooth muscular fibre are most fre- quently met with in the uterus, forming the growths commonly called fibrous tumours.* They have recently received the name of myoma, or fibromyoma, or, for the sake of distinction from striated muscle, leiomyoma. These tumours consist of smooth muscular fibres, with variable proportions of connective tissue, which latter increases with the age of the tumours, the younger consisting mainly of muscular fibre cells. The characteristic anatomical peculiarity is, of course, to be found in these elongated cells; and though they have sometimes been mistaken for fibro-plastic or spindle-shaped cells, the distinction lies in the oblong or staff- shaped nuclei of the muscular tissue. These tumours are vascular, and they possess, from their muscular structure, a true contrac- tility. They sometimes attain in the uterus an immense size, but after a certain age are very liable to calcification. They are met with also in other organs containing smooth muscular fibre, such as the prostate, the intestines, stomach, and in the walls of veins. Muscular tumours are strictly innocent, though they often occur in considerable number; and almost the only inconvenience they occasion is that arising from weight and mechanical pressure. They are also very apt to cause haemorrhage. vm.—NEW GROWTH OF NERVOUS TISSUE; NERVOUS TUMOURS; NEUROMA. New formation of nerve tissue may take place as a restoration of destroyed tissue, or in the form of a distinct tumour. The healing of divided nerves is effected by the formation of new nerve fibres, which do not differ in structure from those previously existing. It appears also possible for ganglionic or grey nervous tissue to be completely restored, as in animals tho lower part of the spinal cord has been regenerated when experimentally destroyed. A corresponding process has not yet been observed in man. Nervous Tumour: Neuroma.—Tumours composed of nervous tissue are not very common; they most often occur in connection with the spinal nerves, more rarely on cerebral nervos, or on the Bristowe, “ Trans. Path. Soc.," iv. p. 218.