DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 810 suppuration is difficult to distinguish from what is called “ scrofu- lous ” disease of the joints, referred to hereafter. Both seem to have been included under the head of “ white swelling.” Inflammation may attack the cellular tissue around joints, caus- ing effusion of coagulating fluid and consequent swelling, with subsequent formation of pus. One or more spots only may be affected, so that small, local deposits of pus are produced; or the whole may he involved, and the joint become enveloped in a large abscess. In its later stages, the disease extends to the synovial membrane and the cartilages; or recovery may take place, the joint remaining sound. Pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane is a very curious and peculiar disease, with the exact nature of which we are yet scarcely acquainted. It was first described by Sir B. Brodie as a morbid alteration of structure peculiar to the articular lining membrane, nothing analogous having been observed in the serous sacs. He says, “ The disease seems to commence in the reflected portions of the synovial membrane, converting them into a light brown, pulpy substance, varying from a quarter to a half, or even a whole inch in thickness, intersected with white membranous lines and red spots, formed by small vessels injected with their own blood. _ It then attacks the synovial membrane of ‘ the cartilages,’ beginning at their edge, and extending gradually over them, ulceration in those cartilages going on correspondingly, till the carious or ulcer- ating surfaces of the bone are exposed. The cavity of the joint sometimes contains pale yellow fluid in the floating flakes of lymph, or pus, which is discharged externally by ulceration; but sometimes neither. Or abscesses may exist in the altered synovial membrane itself, without communication in the joint.” We have given, in the “Pathological Report for 1848-49,” a detailed account of the disposi- tion and structure of the synovial membrane thus peculiarly altered, from which we extract the following summary :—The new growth formed prominent fringes of a soft, greyish structure, which over- lapped and encroached considerably on the surface of the articular cartilage. The marginal zone of the cartilage, for a varying extent, was converted into a kind of fibrous tissue, and blended with the altered synovial membrane. More internally the cartilage was grooved on the surface, probably so as to correspond with the over- laying fringe. The fibrous tissue into which the cartilage was transformed was of an imperfect kind, not'divided into distinct fibres, and not containing any of the natural cells, but strewed over with numerous oil drops and yellowish molecules. The change in the cartilage was effected by extraordinary enlargement of its cells, which were crowded with an endogenous growth of young cells containing each a small oil drop and much clear fluid. At the margin of the cartilage, which was obliquely truncated, the change was most advanced; in the interior the structure was quite natural. The pulpy synovial tissue consisted principally ot well-formed nuclei and granular matter, with which were mingled a few fusi-