DISEASES OF PREGNANCY. The consideration of the morbid processes compb’cating parturi- tion is appropriately followed by an account of the diseased condi- tions met with in the placenta and in the ovum ; we shall, at the same time, touch upon extra-uterine pregnancy. THE PLACENTA. The placenta varies much in size within the limits of health. Its position differs also considerably without inducing any detriment to the mother or child ; but when placed near or over the os uteri, the frequent haemorrhages that occur endanger the life of both. The umbilical cord, instead of being attached to the centre of the placenta, is sometimes inserted at the edge ; this gives rise to what has been termed the battledore placenta, a deviation which, though not in itself perilous, may become so by rough manipulation after the birth of the child. The same applies to those cases in which the vessels of the cord are divided before they reach the placenta or are inserted into the membranes. Other irregularities of the cord consist in its being excessively short or extravagantly long, and in its being tied into knots. The extremes of length on record are two inches and fifty-seven inches. Concussion, or other external violence, is a frequent cause of partial separation of the placenta, inducing extravasation into the tissue, and frequently giving rise to abortion. That the placenta is the seat of numerous morbid processes may be inferred from the close relation it bears to the nutrition of the foetus, the frequency of foetal disease, and the necessary transition through the placenta of any morbific agent, which induces the latter. It is only, how- ever, very recently that the attention of pathologists has been directed to the diseased conditions of this organ ; our knowledge of the morbid changes to which it is liable is, therefore, as yet, very limited. ’ J Professor Simpson* describes congestion of the placenta as affecting the maternal or foetal portion, causing the external sur- face of the organ to assume a more or less deep violet, and, some- times, almost livid colour, the internal structure presenting- a deep purple hue, from the vessels being overcharged with blood, while the substance is heavier and more solid than natural. One ’of the sequelae of congestion is haemorrhage into the body, or on the surface of the placenta, varying much in extent. The effused blood undergoes the changes usually traced in coagula, and when there are several fibrinous remains, thoy cause a tubcrculated appearance. * “ Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,” vol. xv. p. 265.