THE HYMEN. 745 connective tissues; but this variety seldom attains any very great size. In new-born infants the nymphse normally project beyond the labia majora, and, in some wild tribes, the custom exists of inducing their elongation by artificial means; th:s is sa;d to be the case among the Bushmen and the Kamschatdales. Among the Arabs and Copts circumcision of females prevails, which consists in removing a portion of the elongated nymphse. The enlargement of the nymphse has been set down to an abuse of sexual indulgence, but this is, probably, as incorrect as the same statement has been shown to be with regard to hypertrophy of the clitoris. This rudimentary penis excites no attention, unless enlarged beyond its normal proportions. It is capable of assuming the most extravagant size. Some of the cases of her- maphrodism that are on record may be explained by a reference to congenital hypertrophy of the clitoris. The largest specimen that we have met with is preserved in the Museum of the University of Bonn. It is fourteen inches in circumference, and weighs eight pounds. Mr. Salford Lee quotes several instances of similar hypertrophic enlargement. Parent Duchatelet met with enlarged clitoris in only three cases of 6,000 registered prostitutes in Paris. Dr. Ashwell, in his remarks on the subject, expresses his concurrence with the last observer as to there being no necessary connection between an habitual sexual indulgence and the permanent increase of the clitoris. He adds, that he has often been struck with the integrity of the external genitals in prostitutes, while the uterus and ovaries have been bound in all directions by bands of false membrane. Cancer of the clitoris is rare, but we have seen two instances of epithelioma in this position; and in one case, which terminated fatally, the disease involved largely the inguinal glands ■ on both sides, and appeared also in characteristic nodules in the heart—all these secondary growths having the typical characters 1 of squamous-cell epithelioma. We allude to the urethra at present, only, to speak of certain affections of the orifice, which opens beneath the clitoris, into the vestibular portion of the vagina. The very large crypts and sebaceous follicles surrounding this sensitive point are the frequent : seat of blennorrhoic and other forms of inflammatory action. The so-called vascular tumours, or urethral haemorrhoids are not uncommon in early middle life. These small, bright, red excres- cences usually spring from the urethral orifice, or from the floor of the urethra close to the orifice, and have been already spoken of. TOE HYMEN. . The valvular fold of membrane which protects the virginal vagina, the hymen, which is commonly ruptured when coition is first completely effected, has been a subject of much discussion by