CONSEQUENCES OF CONGESTION. 49 .This impairment of vital (i.e. special) power depends partly on the increased quantity of blood in the part, which, bein°- .-greater than is proportionate to its functional activity, overloads ;.ana oppresses it. But a still more powerful, and quite unques- tionable, cause of vital depression in a congested part, is afforded jy the altered condition of the blood itself, which, semi-stagnatin^ v:.n the capillaries and veins, become more venous than it shoulcf : md otherwise unfit for the healthy nutrition of the tissues The Ploughing ulcers which form in the congested and thickened inte- [T^uments of the lower limbs, when the veins are enlarged and vraricose, are a striking instance of the lowered condition of the (vitality of those textures. Long-continued congestion of the l iver, from disease of the heart, produces a very remarkable effect an the parenchymal cells. They become very greatly loaded with U.! V1matt0r (w uch does not appear to be true biliary, but :;-ather bde pigment); m extreme cases, the majority become atro- phied and are reduced to a mere granular detritus, while the inter- ellular capillaries become enlarged. These changes afford some explanation why the secretion of bile is interfered with, and also *vhy jaundice occurs. su The effusions that take place from congested parts are certainly the most prominent phenomena of the condition. They will be most abundant, as a general rule, when the congestion depends in venous obstruction; so that while fresh blood is being poured eX1Lcan be foYnd, for i1:> ex°ept that which the .-exudation affords. They may also be extremely abundant in some mt tbp t f n0t/?uy-the t°m.city of the vessels is entirely lost, mt the texture of their walls is altered, so that they no longer ?hPo°fb,uiny °!uCe t0 thf eSCaPe of ttair contents, but allow them me ca^e Fr iL\° transude,with great facility. Such is, no doubt, ae case in instances of bronchorrhoea, chronic diarrhoea and meorrheea, where large quantities of fluid are continually passim-- •vess9ls'but wher'' -»obsC”; hai-e f comiiaensprate to account for the dis- 1 i of remedies in these cases shows that the - scharge is dependent on the cause we have mentioned Under “;admimstratl0ri f turpentine or astringents the vessels regain ieir tone, and no longer pour out their contents. Though°the on m HUch states have originated in cfnges- on, yet as this is removed by the effusion while the atom- imains, they come at last to be rather instances of passive flux5 , Chr0mc alcites- in which the smaller branches the portal vein may be so obstructed that no fluid can mss nrough them, presents an exquisite instance of effusion depend -0 upon venous obstruction. The fluid effused in the neritoneU ‘ ;CdVaar a g00ddaalbchlefly as t0 tho relative proportions of y-atei- iid albumen which it contains. Not only does a Z Z7^72UJees ^ibriu6n0t -fluently aceZpaSes it arge nakj masses of fibrinous coagula are not uncommonly E