CHANGES OP COMPOUND CYSTS. formed in the wall of the larger ones as giving the explanation of cyst formation. No recent investigator (except Klob) regards these as Graafian follicles; that is, supposes that compound are formed in the same way as simple cysts. Dr. Wilson Fox thinks that the primary cyst is an enlarged Graafian follicle, hut that the secondary cysts are formed in its walls by different processes, chiefly by a kind of papillary growth ; also by the transforma- tion of rudimentary glandular follicles, and by free cyst production in the connective tissue. Forster regards it as a process of cyst formation in connective tissue. Klebs (with whom Waldeyer and other recent German investigators agree) derives the secondary cysts fiom the residue of fcetal glandular structure, and therefore places the formative process in the latter part of fcetal life, and connects them with the glandular tumours before referred to; so that he gives a compound ovarian cystic tumour the name of adenoma ci/lindro-cellulare nysticum. Dr. Ritchie contends for the participa- tion of the ovum. These theories we cannot discuss. CHANGES OF COMPOUND CYSTS. Suppuration not unfrequentlv occurs, and sometimes causes per- foration of the wall, followed by peritonitis; or it may open on the outer surface of the body. Twisting of the pedicle sometimes occurs, and may produce little effect but often leads to inflammation or, by obstructing the vessels, to atrophy. Wasting, accompanied by thickening of the contents, or even complete solidification, may occur spontaneously. The wall may become calcified. Combinations of compound cystoid tumours with cancer, or with sarcoma, or with dermoid cysts, sometimes occur. Dermoid, or Cutaneous Cysts; Proliferative Cysts.—The general characters of these cysts have been already described (p. 157). They are far more common in the ovaries than elsewhere, two- thirds to four-fifths of all the known cases having occurred in these organs. They are generally, if not always simple, and for the most part solitary. The inner wall seems always, to be formed by a structure precisely resembling epidermis, having flattened cells in the more superficial, and round cells in the deeper layers. This stratum rests upon a connective tissue structure, resembling the cutis, which is often elevated into papillce irregularly arranged ; outside all is often an investment of fatty tissue, like the panniculus adiposus. Inserted in the skin are hairs completely formed, seba- ceous glands attached to their bulbs, and further sudoriparous glands. Teeth are often contained in great numbers—more than 100 have been counted—and either grow in the unaltered wall or else are imbedded in bony sockets. Bone is also sometimes found, both in the fibrous wall and detached, never having any real resein-