838 CARIES. essentially (according to him) a degenerative ostitis, by which the osseous substance becomes converted into a soft uncalcified tissue, which may, according to circumstances, be either a degenerating mass with fatty elements, or a richly cellular structure with newly-formed elements. The latter may, like the medulla, become luxuriant in its growth, and proliferate on the surface in the shape of a granulation. The granulations, then, are to be regarded as originating in bony tissue.* Billroth, on the other hand, believes that the bone-corpuscles are simply passive till set free by the softening of the surrounding substance, when they may possibly proliferate ; but he regards the solvent action of granulations as a fact, though an unexplained one. It is probable that the process will be better understood when it is brought into connection with the physiological absorption of bone in the formation of medullary cavities or other hollows, and in the changes of form which bones undergo. These have been lately studied by Iv611iker,t who finds that in each of the Howship’s lacunas (which occur in normal absorption also) is a large com- pound cell, a myeloid or “ giant cell,” to which he gives the name of osteoclast. These osteoclasts he believes to be the essential agents in the process of absorption, with which the fixed bone cells have nothing to do; and this is shown by the fact that dead ivory pegs (as in the experiments of Langenbeck) become excavated with lacunae, containing osteoclasts. Similar cells have been found in provisional callus which undergoes absorption, and in bone which is wasted or absorbed through pressure (either from tumours, or produced artificially); but at present little has been done to connect these bodies with the process of caries and necrosis. Scrofulous Ostitis, or Caries.—The disease of bone, called scrofu- lous, though often taken as the type of caries, is in reality not quite so simple, and would be better called scrofulous ostitis. It has been regarded as tubercular. The affection, which we call scrofu- lous in the sense defined above (p. 91), is especially seen in the cancellous bone, and at the extremities of the shafts of long bones, whence it not unfrequently extends to the joints, producing the scrofulous or fungous arthritis already referred to. In early stages of scrofulous caries, the bone (says Mr. Holmes) “is soft, light, and oily .... the cancelli are large, and charged with a red jelly- like mass.” M. Banvier regards this as a preinflammatory stage, and dependent on the destructive fatty change in the bone cells. The inflammatory changes he regards as subsequent to these. But when once established the disease is essentially a degenerative inflammation, ending either in the production of a cavity con- taining curdy pus, which has the character called scrofulous, with few formed elements, and much molecular debris; or else by a *“ Cellular Pntbologie,” p. 523, 4th edition, 1871. ■t “Die normale Rcso'ption des Knochengewebes,” Leipzig, 1S73. “Quar. Jour. Jlic. Science,” xiii. SO; xiv. S7, eto.