142 NEW GROWTH OF CARTILAGE. Fig. 20. in numerous lobules, not larger than a pea or a bean, surrounded and separated by fibrous partitions, which contain blood-vessels. This arrangement illustrates the physiological law that a non- vascular tissue cannot be nourished at more than a certain distance from its blood-supply, and therefore cannot grow be- yond a certain size. It is said that a cartilaginous lobule some- times becomes vascular in its centre, and then grows, by the continuous addition of layers of cartilage to the outside; but this arrangement is certainly exceptional. The cells vary nth m size, from -J-gth to Enchondroma from tine lung, of pure hyaline cartilage. The growth was secon- dary to a similar tumour of the scapula. (From an original preparation.) „ . . 1800“ oi an inch m diameter. They are sometimes simple oval or round cells, with clear nuclei; sometimes compound, some- times with the double outline (showing the formation of a capsule) of normal cartilage cells; sometimes with several concentric layers; or again, they may have no obvious cell- wall, or even appear like free nuclei, which is especially the case in cartilage when about to soften. Stellate and rami- fied cells are rare, but very interesting, since they constitute a transition to the mucous tissue of myxoma. The intercellular substance is sometimes hyaline, sometimes more or less fibrillated, sometimes soft and mucous, and very various in amount. Enchondroma generally yields on boiling chondrin, like ordinary unossified cartilage, but sometimes gelatin. Three-fourths or more of all cartilaginous tumours arise from bone, sometimes in the interior (hence the name enchondroma), when they become surrounded with a kind of thin osseous cap- sule ; more rarely on the outside, under or from the periosteum (perichondroma). The bones most frequently affected are the pha- langes of the toes and fingers, with the metacarpal and metatarsal bones. In this situation the tumours are very often multiple. Cartilaginous tumours are also met with in the subcutaneous connective tissue, in muscular septa, fasciae, and tendons; further, in glandular organs, as the testicle, salivary glands, ovary, and mamma. In the lungs both primary and secondary, or metastatic, tumours have been found. They most frequently affect young persons, and are occasionally congenital. Enchondroma is of slow "growth, and does not usually attain a