695 CAUSES AXD COASEQUEACES OF BRIGHT’S DISEASE. appears to be for the comparatively acute degeneration (parenchy- matous nephritis) to supervene on the more chronic interstitial disease. Lardaceous degeneration is often combined with one of the two diseases just referred to. When combined with parenchy- matous disease, it produces the large white form of waxy kidney, in which some portions are opaque with degeneration. But even in this form, and still more in the smaller forms of waxy kidney, there is always a great deal of interstitial nuclear production, con- stituting a combination with the cirrhotic form of disease. This combination is not easy to explain, since there is certainly no reason to suppose that the lardaceous material becomes organized into fibrous or any other form of tissue, as Dr. Dickinson seems to assume. Causes of Bright's Disease.—It is not d priori probable that the two forms of disease, being, as we believe them to be, distinct, would be produced by the same causes. The first form, parenchy- matous nephritis, is alleged to be produced by exposure to cold, by irritating poisons, and to be the consequence of the acute morbid conditions which arise in exanthematic or other febrile diseases. It is chiefly a disease of early life. The granular kidney, on the other hand, is closely connected with the chronic processes which lead to fibroid degeneration of various organs, to atheroma of the arteries, and to general senile decay. It is frequently seen in gout, and, in Lon- don at least, a certain number of such cases depend upon lead poisoning. Chronic alcoholism has an undoubted tendency to produce kidney disease, and generally it is thought chronic granular degeneration ; but sometimes excessive indulgence sets up an acute morbid process. We do not think that obstructive diseases of the heart have much to do with the production of renal degeneration, at the most they only act as predisponents. The same may be said of preg- nancy, since, though it is, unquestiouably, in some instances, by the reflex irritation it sets up, the efficient cause of renal congestion, and consequent convulsions from uraemia; yet Frerichs acknow- ledges that even among such cases traces of renal degeneration are rarely discoverable. We regard, therefore, albuminuria in preg- nancy and in obstructive heart disease only as an indication that the kidney is the seat of an active or passive hypenomia, which we do not think is often followed by actual degeneration. Further interesting questions connected with the causation of these diseases our space does not permit us to discuss. Conditions associated with Bright's Disease.—The granular con- tracted kidney is often accompanied by changes in other organs, which, though not regarded as its symptoms, are of much im- portance. These are general tension of the arterial system, thickening of the walls of the smaller arteries throughout the body, atheroma of the larger arteries, hypertrophy of the left ven-