202 CONNECTION OE GREY AND YELLOW TUBERCLE. to all parts of the body. The products of artificial tuberculosis resemble generally those of the spontaneously arising disease in the human subject. Beside granulations in the lungs and on the serous membranes there occur enlargement of the liver and spleen from interstitial growth; and secondary changes, marked by enlargement, induration, and caseation, of the lymphatic glands connected 'with the diseased organs. Deductions from the Experimental Results.—These experimental results have modified very materially though indirectly the doctrine of tubercle. They seem to show, in the first place, that secondary tuberculosis may have its starting-point in some simply inflammatory affection; that is to say, there need not be any original “deposit of tubercle” in the sense formerly understood. Secondly. It is not necessary that the inflammatory products, in order to produce secondary tubercle, should pass throughany par- ticular kind of degeneration or “caseation.” Thirdly. Though it is shown that no specific inoculation is necessary for the develop- ment of tuberculosis, it is not proved that some miasma or atmospheric influence is not concerned in its production, or that mal-nutrition does not favour it. The. same uncertainty exists here as with regard to the origin of pysemia. The theory suggested by these results may be thus summed up. Tuberculosis is generally, if not always, a secondary disease, following some local inflammatory affection; but while several processes, such as induration, suppuration, caseation of umam- matory products often concur, the conditions under which this secondary affection follows are at present unknown; since it is quite certain that all the lesions described as the precursors of general tuberculosis may occur without the development of this disease. The question is equally unsolved whetner the infective substance in tubercle (elaborated within thebodyormtroducwl from without) is something specific, or whether the effects it s supposed to produce are dependent on mere mechamcal imta- tion and obstruction of vessels. In favour of the theori oi specific disease must be urged the fact that ^testmal tul culosis has been induced in cattle by feeding them with scro- fulous or tubercular products;* and the Jsame disease R, «ud to have been produced in dogs and poultry, which have'been allowed to swallow the sputa of phthisical patien s. . . ‘ • the same results experimentally by feeding S™-pig thele tuberculous masses derived both from men and ca • mogt cases the disease produced was general tuberculos , __ conspicuously developed in the intestine andJulous over, all observers agree that inoculation wi 1 directly material produces the secondary disease more rapidly ^d^rectly than any other kind of inoculation. Altogether fi • Chauveau: “Gazette Medicate de Lyons.” 1P68, p. 650, quoted in Virchow Hirsch, “ Jnhresbericht fUr 1869,” vol. i. p* 1S9. t Virchow’s “ Archiv.,” vol xlix. p. 291.