INFLAMMATION. 80 Swelling depends manifestly in great measure upon the disten- sion of the vessels with blood ; the hulk of the part is increased just as that of a kidney or liver is when it is injected artificially— its fibres are put on the stretch, its vessels strained, and its cap- sule, if it have one, fully distended. The effusion of plasma is another cause of the swelling, especially at a later period and in some cases, but is not, we think, so powerful a cause as the vascular injection. A third cause of swelling is the production of new elements. Vascular Phenomena. Stasis.—We now proceed to the more minute examination of the phenomena of the inflammatory pro- cess as they have been disclosed to us by the microscope, and we here resume the line of inquiry which we commenced during our consideration of active hypersemia. We saw in this, that, with a certain amount of stimulation, the arteries enlarged, and admitted a greater quantity of blood, which flowed on more rapidly, and traversed with an accelerated current the capillaries and veins which became dilated also. An increased and more rapid blood- flow were then the characters of determination of blood. But if the stimulus is increased, or if it be excessive from the first, phenomena of a very different kind present themselves. The current slackens, it moves slower and slower, and at last ceases; the capillaries are seen distended with a red uniform mass, the veins are also enlarged, and filled with red corpuscles, crowded together, which retain more of their distinct form than those in the capillaries, and move either slowly onwards, or oscillate, or are quite stagnant; the arteries, which are also distended, exhibit for some time a progressive movement onward of their contents, which at first is steady, afterwards becomes jerky, or intermittent, and at last ceases. The condition of stasis, as it is called (iarrjfu, to stand), is now established, and therewith, as the sequence of active hypersemia, inflammation. In the immediate neighbourhood of the seat of stagnation the circulation is still seen going on rapidly, and not only in the parts adjoining on the margins of the stasis, but even within its area capillary streams may be seen here and there rapidly coursing beneath a plexus of channels, which are filled by an uniformly red quiescent mass. Manifestly, determination of blood prevails actively all round the focus of arrest of movement. The stagnant blood in most of the capillaries presents an uniform red mass, in which the separate corpuscles are undistinguishable; here and there gaps may be seen, as if a fissure had taken place, and separated the adjacent portions a little away from each other. Amid the mass of blood- globules, appearing as it were fused together, may be seen occa- sionally one or two white corpuscles: according to our observation, they are certainly not to be seen in the great majority of capillary vessels. After the stasis has existed some time, they may be seen in great numbers coating the walls of the veins, and rolled along by the current passing through them; and occasionally they