133 NEW FORMATIONS. Classification of New Growths.—New growths thus defined, differ very widely in their structure or anatomical characters ; as well as in their effect on the organism, their mode of growth and increase. These differences supply two very different, but both important, bases of classification. (1) Anatomical struc- ture. _ (2) Clinical or physiological characters, derived from the history and development of the growths. Proceeding on the first basis, we arrange new growths according as they resemble or differ from the normal tissues and elements of the body; on the second basis it has been customary to classify them as malignant and non-malignant. A third basis of classification is supplied by the nature of the tissue in which the new growth arises; the chief dis- tinction being between those which arise from the class of connect- ive tissues (including serous membranes) and those which have their origin in ^ glandular or epithelial (including epidermic) structures. This distinction, which is founded on embryological development, will be further considered hereafter, but does° not seem as yet to be sufficiently worked out. In practical medicine the physiological properties are the most important. Without stopping now fully to define what is meant by malignant, we may say that this name is applied to tumours which affect many parts of the body at once, and which threaten the life of the individual, being associated with a general and fatal disease, not cured by extirpation of the part affected. On comparing the anatomical and physiological classifications, it is found that they do not by any means coincide. The property of malignancy belongs to new growths which differ very widely in anatomical structure, and it is consequently not possible, though it has long been the desire of pathologists, to define any one anatomical type which shall be absolutely characteristic of malignant tumours. - loreover the distinction of malignant and non-malignant growths, even apart from anatomical considerations, is by no means clear, no broad line can be drawn between the two; and the property wdl be found to be simply one possessed by different classes of tumours in unequal degrees. It will thus be possible to arrange the anatomical species of tumours in a graduated series, at one end of which will be placed those which are malignant in the highest degree, at the other end those which are not at all so.* Prom these considerations it is plain that the physiological characters cannot form a convenient basis of classification ; and our arran fo- ment will therefore bo entirely anatomical; founded on a comparison of the structure of the new growths with that of normal parts. Homologous and Heterologous Growths.—No new growth con- tains any elements essentially unlike those met with in the oody either in its mature state or at some stage of develop- ment, but these elements are sometimes arranged in the samo * The chemical student will recall the division of the elements into Hnd electro-negative; a distinction which permit* of their a.™ment or descending aeries, but not in two absolutely separate groups ascending