137 NEW GROWTH OF MUCOUS TISSUE. + Surgical Pathology," second edition, p. 762. This group is not very well defined, and there exists no sufficient reason for separating it from the true fibrous tumours.’* Clinical Characters.—Fibrous and fibro-cellular tumours may be taken as the type of “ innocent ” growths. They cause no ulcera- tion or destruction of the neighbouring parts, except by mere mechanical pressure; they do not spread from one organ to another by contiguity ; when removed they rarely return on the same spot; and cases of the production of similar tumours in a distant part of the body are of the greatest possible rarity. Two cases are, however, recorded by Sir J. Paget, t and others are re- ferred to by Virchow.J II.—NEW GROWTH OF MUCOUS TISSUE, MUCOUS OR GELATINOUS TUMOUR, MYXOMA. There is a particular form of tissue met with in some parts of the body, to which Virchow has given the name of mucous tissue. The only normal adult structure composed of it is the vitreous body of the eye, but it constitutes the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord; and in the embryo the subcutaneous tissue which afterwards becomes adipose, is at first of this kind. Jt is essentially a kind of connective tissue, and contains a network of stellate, anasto- mosing plasmatic cells, It differs from fibrous connective tissue in having a gelatinous semi-solid intercellular substance, contain- ing in large quantity the ill-defined body mucin, which is dissolved by alkalies, and precipitated, without re-solution in excess, by acetic acid. This tissue occurs in pathological conditions chiefly as a distinct new growth or tumour, and hardly ever as a diffuse infiltration, unless it affect some other kind of tumour already formed. Tumours composed of mucous tissue or myxomata, are usually oval or round masses, tense and elastic when handled, and enclosed in a tolerably firm capsule of connective tissue. On section, they show a smooth, glistening surface, from which runs off, sometimes very copiously, a glassy or mucilaginous fluid. The consistence is that of “a flickering but tenacious substance, half pellucid, like size-gelatine.” They bear somo resemblance to (edematous connective tissue; only that the fluid which runs off is not serous, but contains mucin ; and it never escapes so com- pletely that the tissue collapses. The colour is usually yellowish, but may, from vascularity, or from htemorrhago, pass through all shades of pink to a bright cherry red; and very beautiful mottlings, uke those of a transparent pobble, are sometimes thus produced! Uther portions are often white and opaque, either from the admixture of fatty tissue, or from the presence of very numerous . * The tumours called by Taget “ fibro-cellular tumours n ‘re be aeHonbpd under the name mi/xoma. < Lie Krankkaften GesehwUlste,” i. p. 3Q2. properly so called,” will