803 EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. Denman, Baillie, William Hunter, and Elliotson, have met with instances in which the decidua was present; other cases have been recorded by Mr. Langstaff and Dr. Lee, in which it had not formed We have ourselves examined a preparation m fet. George’s Hospital Museum (No. 2718), in which the decidua is wantin'*, nor does it seem difficult to understand that m one instance’the sympathetic irritation should he set up by which this membrane is produced, and that it should fail m others. Ihe development of the Fallopian tube does not keep pace with that of the ovum, and in the second or third month rupture generally takes place, the foetus escapes into the abdominal cavity, and the mother sinks from the shock, the haemorrhage, or the peritoneal inflammation that ensues; but instances are known of the patient surviving, and the foetus undergoing in the abdomen degeneration to a lithopcedion. In the majority of instances the right tube is the one affected. Bupture does not appear to be the invariable issue. In tlie Hoyal College of Surgeons (preparation No. 2/19) we find a foetus almost completely developed, but compressed and dried, which is stated to have been removed by operation from the Fallopian tube fourteen years after gestation; the patient recovered, and lived for a long time after at Hamburg, where the operation was performed. This specimen is a good instance of what has been termed a lithop.cdion, a stone-child; the parts inter- vening between the extremities are ossified, and nutrition appears to have been completely arrested. These lithopcedia are some- times retained within the uterus, as the remarkable preparation in the same museum (No. 2720) proves, of which Dr. Cheston has given a detailed account. The mother, at the age of twenty- seven, carried her fourth child to the full period, had labour-pains, but no child was born. She recovered, and died paralytic at the age of eighty. The uterus was found to' contain an osseous. sac adherent to the surrounding part, and resembling a middle-sized human cranium. The cyst seemed to have absorbed all the paits in contact with it, and contained a foetus in the same position as that in utero. The brain, lungs, and liver preserved almost their natural appearance; but there was no trace of blood, nor any remains of membranes, placenta, or umbilicus. The osseous sac, with the foetus, weighed three pounds one ounce four drachms. A similar instance, of twenty-eight years’ duration, is described by Prael.t The terminations of Fallopian tube gestations alluded to are not the only issue which we meet with. Adhesions form with different parts of the parietes, and the foetus having been broken up by ulcerative disjunction, tho parts may be discharged piece- meal, whereupon tho cyst in which they were contained contracts, and the mother survives. Iu this way the foetus has been eliminated by the rectum and the umbilicus. * “ Msd.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. v. t “ De Foetu, duo de triginta Annoi in Utero detento.” Goettingen, 1821.