CHRONIC ARTERITIS, OR ATHEROMATOUS DISEASE. 379 arteries, where it usually accompanies a similar change in the capil- laries. In the arteries of the brain this change is seldom wanting, the lining membrane, and the atrophy or gangrene of the part nourished by the artery is an illustration of the effects following similar obliteration of the channel from disease. We have alluded to the cerebral affections resulting from an arrest in the arterial circulation; senile gangrene is another morbid condition which has been ascribed, by Dupuytren and Cruveilhier, to arteritis ; or, as would now be said, to obstruction of the diseased artery by for- mation of coagula. It is now doubted whether arteritis ever gives rise to suppuration, but independently of the cases of suppuration in the umbilical artery quoted from Dr. Scholler, Andral’s * and Hodgson’s authority,! were formerly thought to determine the question ; for these authors state that actual idiopathic suppuration does occur in the artery. The spontaneous coagulation of the blood in the arteries is not, however, usually the result of inflammatory action. It may occur in consequence of a peculiar condition, which favours the chemical tendencies, that normally ought not to come into play until after death. This spontaneous coagulation is especially met with in the pulmonary arteries, where the occurrence of the inflammatory Symptoms has, as yet, not been met with. Sir. J. Paget, J in describing a case of the kind, says, that nearly all the branches beyond the primary divisions of the pulmonary artery con- tained clots of blood, which from a comparison with those found in tied arteries he judged to be from three to ten days old. The clots did not commonly extend continuously from any large branch of the pulmonary artery into many of * “ Anat. Patholog-ique,” tom. ii. p. 379. + “ On the Arteries," p. 10. Era. 90. and is very conspicuous among the evidences of old age; still there is a peculiar form of fatty degeneration of the external coat, which is specially prevalent in children. Precisely the same changes may be traced in the small arteries and capillaries of other organs, such as the kid- neys and lungs — though the vessels are of course not so easily isolated. Connective tissue corpuscles from the inner coat of an artery, in a state of fatty degeneration. (After Rindfleisch.) Coagulation in Arteries.—The formation of a coagulum in the artery is a well-known physio- logical effect of the laceration by mechanical or other means of