826 MORBID CONDITIONS OF BURS/E. Tliis is more likely to occur in persons who are in a bad state of health. The walls of an inflamed bursa sometimes become prodi- giously thickened by the organization of layers of fibrinous effusion. There is a specimen in the museum of St. George’s, in which the walls of an enlarged bursa patellae are more than half an inch thick, while the cavity, which is comparatively small, is traversed by reticulating laminee of false membrane. “ When the inflammation has been of long standing,” Sir B. Brodie says, “it is not unusual to find, floating in the fluid of the bursa, a number of loose bodies, of a flattened oval form, of a light brown colour, with smooth surfaces, resembling small melon-seeds in appear- ance. There seems to be no doubt that these loose bodies have their origin in the coagulated lymph, which was effused in the early stage of the disease; and I have had opportunities, by the examination of several cases, to trace the steps of their gradual formation. At first, the coagulated lymph forms irregular masses, of no determined shape, which afterwards, by the motion and pressure of the contiguous parts, are broken down into smaller portions. These, by degrees, become of a regular form, and assume a firmer consistence, and, at last, they terminate in the flat oval bodies which have been just described.” They are, there- fore, like one class of loose bodies in joints. The synovial sheaths surrounding the flexor tendons of the fingers, as they pass under the annular ligament, are not unfrequently the seat of increased secretion of fluid, and of the formation of small bodies, compared by Mr. R. Adams to grains of boiled rice. “ They are found in vast numbers in the same cyst, mixed with a more or less considerable quantity of glairy synovial liquid.’ . They occasion, as they move to and fro, a distinct sensation of frottement, and are quite identical with those described by Sir B. Brodie. . . What are called ganglions are small collections of fluids m bursal cavities of new formation. They are most frequent on the back of the wrist and forearm. They do not seem to arise from inflam- mation, but rather to be of the nature of simple cysts. They are slightly movable, indolent, and painless, and appear to be situated “ in the reticular tissue, which immediately covers the sheath of the extensor tendons.” To the latter they are connected firmly, to the skin but loosely. The consistence .of their contents varies from that of limpidity to that of thick jelly-like. matter. According to Velpeau, these cysts occasionally communicate wit-i the articular synovial cavity. » Some fluid of this kind, which we examined, was coagulated, in great measure at least, by Ditric acid; it contained a few nucleated granulous corpuscles.