384 CAUSES OF ANEUBISM. Fio. 91. an aneurism. This explains the frequency of intracranial aneurism at special points, such as the middle cerebral arteries, or at hifurca- tions of the other arteries. Of course there are many such aneurisms without any history of embolism, but still there will often be a history of valvular disease accompanied by vegetations fronts of which becoming detached might produce embolisms. Spontaneous thrombosis may, of course, have similar and Contents of Aneurism.-The form of sac^ated aneu- rism is globular, but they may, partly owing to nsms is geneiauy fe accidental conaitions in the coats of the affected vessels, partly from the pressure exerted by surrounding tissues, assume an oval or more or less irregular outline. Upon the original aneurism, an evolution of secondary dilatations is sometimes met with, and these may even give rise to a further or tertiary multiplication of the disease, so as to induce a sort of mulberry appearance in the tumour ; it is the variety to which Cruveilhier has applied the term “ anevrisme sous l’aspect d’ampoules a bosselures.” . The contents of aueunsmal sacs are fibrinous coagula, which form in success- ive layers, and accordingly present a con- centric arrangement, like the annular rings in perennial plants. The resemblance may be traced still further in the gradual con- densation of the outer or external layers, o win o' to absorption and compression. These also lose their colour, and become fawn-coloured or white; while towards the interior we continue to recognize the dark colour of the blood. The accumula- tion may proceed to such an extent as to obliterate the cavity, and thus establish a spontaneous cure. A considerable amount of organization is observed to take place in some deposits, manifested by the formation of fibres. The existence of a distinct ™el?blaaneoJ® £t^hich Bizot writers to envelope the coag^um- ^ dwells forcibly, particularly drew attention, and up-u wtncn oi m in whieh The latter states that he has nevei m ^ ‘ Mr Bo^nall has this adventitious membrane , . J ^ coagula in an aneu- observed, that the membrane enveloping the coaai i ••• « “St George’s Hosp- • J W Oprle: “Trans. Path. Soc..” 1817. (iniettcM8G6. vol. i. p. 196> s** 11150 Boports," 186”, p. 38B; “MeM ™ f"d O112. Church; “ Trans. Path. Boo.,” vol. a. P i Aneurism of the posterior tibial artery, with the nerve spread over the hack part of the pouch ; the sac is entirely obliterated by con- centric layers of fibrine, growing paler towards the surface. (St. George’s Museum, F. 41.)