716 DEPOSITS AND CONCRETIONS IN THE URINARY TRACT. acid; the other salts of uric acid are mostly found in mixed calculi. 2. Oxalate of lime forms what is called the mulberry-calculus, from its rough tuberculated surface. It is extremely hard, laminated, and stained dark-red or brown from altered blood. Colourless crystalline calculi of the same composition are some- times found in the pelvis of the kidney; and small polished grains, like poppy-seeds, have been found to be chemically the same. The two forms last-mentioned occur in the kidney. Oxalate calculi are very common. 3. Phosphatic calculi are mostly composed of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, or triple phosphate, mixed with some phosphate of lime (called the fusible calculus). They are smooth, white, round, or oval, generally laminated, and earthy, but sometimes made up of white scales. Calculi of pure phosphate of lime are rare, but resemble in appearance those just described, except that the colour is usually pale brown. Both these forms may occur in the kidney as well as in the bladder. 4. Cystin calculi are rare. They are yellowish-white, smooth, generally uniformly round or oval, but when occurring in the kidney may be irregular in shape. The substance is made up of shining crystalline plates. They may occur in the kidney, but more commonly in the bladder. 5. Xanthin, discovered as composing a calculus by Dr. Marcet, in 1817, is of extraordinary rarity. Only two subsequent specimens have been recorded, one by Langenbeck, one by Mr. Taylor, from the museum of the College of Surgeons. (“ Trans. Path. Soc ,” vol. xix. p. 275.) 6. Carbonate of lime forms by itself very rare calculi, but is not uncommonly found in mixed calculi. Calculi of pure carbonate of lime are brownish or white on the surface, the substance pure white, and either granular or semi- crystalline and translucent. In one instance they have been found in the kidney. 7. Mixed calculi are probably the commonest of all. They con- sist of a nucleus of one material surrounded by a coating of another, or sometimes of alternating layers of two substances. These are chiefly uric acid, or urates and triple phosphate; but oxalate and carbonate of lime may both form part of mixed calculi, the latter as an external crust. Mixed calculi occur more especially in the bladder, but sometimes in the kidney. The deposit of phosphates on the outside is connected with an inflammation of the bladder and alkaline mine.