671 HYPEKiEMIA OP THE KIDNEY. We have thus noticed the hypersemic, or acute inflammatory disease of the kidney, because, though not believing it ourselves to belong to the truly degenerative processes, it produces symptoms in some measure similar, and is regarded by one of the best authorities as always taking the initiative in a more or less marked manner. It may of course give rise to a true degenera- tion, and apparently pass into it, but there is not more connection, we believe, between the two, than between an attack of bronchitis or pneumonia and succeeding pulmonary phthisis. A condition of intense hyperasmia is seen in the kidney affection which sometimes accompanies the puerperal state, and appears to cause puerperal convulsions, as is well shown in Plate 6 of Dr. Dickinson’s work.* If this pass into chronic disease, which is doubtful, it appears to produce the contracted granular kidney of Bright’s disease. Varieties of Hyperaemia.—This may, of course, be either partial or general, and, as shown before, either active (arterial), or passive (venous). General hypersemia, proceeding from active congestion, has the typical appearance above described. Partial hypersemia from the same cause is known by chiefly affecting the surface and the cortical substance of the kidney, which are injected and marked with haemorrhagic spots; the more noticeable as this part is normally paler than the pyramidal portion. If the kidney be partially injected after death, the injection will be found to fill the cortical portion first, leaving the pyramids uncoloured. Partial hypersemia from venous congestion will first affect the pyramids, and these parts will be even more than normally darker than the cortex. Such a condition is seen when the kidneys have suffered venous congestion from some cause which has operated not long before death. The colour is, as usually the case with venous congestion, darker and more purple than that of active or arterial congestion. Chronic congestion is the result of passive, not active, conges- tion, and this is most frequently produced by valvular disease of the heart, or obstructions in the pulmonary circulation. In an early stage, when the obstruction has existed not many months, the kidney is found enlarged, the substance hard, dense, and rigid; the colour darkened or purplish, and not due only to fulness of the capillaries but to staining of the tissue, since washing does not remove it. The capsule is easily removed, and the surface smooth. Microscopic examination shows little that is characteristic except general vascular fulness, and apparently some thickening of the walls of the tubes and the fibrous tissue generally, but no inter- stitial production of new tissue. The epithelium of the tubes may be quite natural. In other cases the chronic congestion is com- bined with degeneration, and the kidney substance appears mottled or pale when the blood is washed away. If the causes continue to operate the degeneration passes into atrophy, and the whole gland # On the “ Pathology and Treatment of Albuminuria.” London, 1868.