CYSTS OF THE BRAIN. 283 Glioma* often approaches in structure to a sarcoma or a myxoma; and mixed forms are not uncommon. Fatty Tumours.—The simple fatty tumour is only found in the choroid plexus, whore it does not, however, attain any great size. The fatty growths most frequently met with in the brain are those which are termed cholesteatoma; they are formed of concentric layers, and present a metallic lustre ; they consist of membranous layers, ordinary fat vesicles, and cholesterine plates, and are inclosed in a capsule. They attain the size of a walnut, or goose’s egg. These tumours most commonly arise from the membranes of the brain, but may originate in the cerebral substance itself. Fibrous Tumours are, according to Forster, extremely rare; they are usually single, and form clearly defined nodules, the size of a pea or a hazel nut, rarely larger. Myxoma.—This form of tumour is, according to Virchow,+ occasionally met with in the brain, and especially in the cerebral hemispheres. It forms very soft gelatinous masses, which fre- quently break down into cysts containing a mucous fluid. They may attain the size of a man’s fist. CYSTS. Cysts of various kinds present themselves in the brain ; those resulting from apoplectic effusions are the most common, and present, as we have seen, various stages of development. It is probable, that in many instances, their formation may be due to the same process as that described by Mr. Prescott Hewett, as giving riso to the inter-arachnoid cysts, viz., a formation of a false membrane, subsequent to the effusion from the sanguineous clot. These cysts, it should be remembered, may ultimately come to contain a colourless serous fluid. They are characterized by the firmness and thickness of their walls. Abscess and softening may equally give rise to cysts. Echinococcus or Hydatid cysts are also found. They occupy the peripheral more frequently than the central portions of the hemi- spheres, and are found to present no connection with the surrounding- tissues. They are, according to Dr. Bastian, almost always barren, and thus correspond to the acephalocysts of Laennec. When met with in the brain there is generally a coincident development of the same parasites in the liver, a fact first pointed out by Aran, who has analyzed forty-seven cases of this kind. They are mostly met with in young persons from ten to twenty years of age. § • Cases of glioma of the brain are recorded by Dr. Cayley, in the “Trans. Rath »oc., 1885, vol. xvi. 23; Dr. Moxon, Ibid. 1868, vol. xix. 21, pi. x. fig. 3; and by Dr. Green, Ibid. 1869, vol. xx. 24. r e , j ^ “Die Krankhaften Geschwlilsto,” ii. 423. i Schmidt’s “Jahrbhchor dor Modiein," vol. xxxiii p 186 rcf’gr0no6a are *iven bI Dr- Ualitmu in Reynolds's “ System of