180 EPITHELIAL CANCER; CANCROID; EPITHELIOMA. around a central circular space, which contains amorphous colloid matter or degenerated cells. These peculiar structures are called “epithelial pearls,” “globes epidermigues,” or “ bird's nest bodies.” (Pigs. 40 and 41. ) Clinical character.—The malignant character of epithelial cancer is manifested in its extending from the superficial textures first involved to the deeper seated, even to the bones; the laryngeal cartilages have often been involved by it. It seems, however, to have less tendency to contaminate the lymphatic glands, and the system generally, than other varieties of cancer, though Sir J. Paget observed some extension to the lymphatic glands in about half his cases. Instances of the occurrence of new growths in distant parts of the body are not unknown, though rare. _ In some of these cases there has been supposed to be a mechanical transference of germs.* , Cholesteatoma—A. peculiar form of epithelial tumour known by this name, appears to be nearly allied to epithelioma. It contains fiat epidermic cells, intermixed with cholesterine crystals. It is extremely rare, and specimens have been probably often confounded with fatty cysts. , , ., , Tubular or Cylindrical Epithelioma.—The tumours above described are formed of epithelial cells resembling the flat, squamous, or pavement epithelium ; but there are other cancers in which the epithelium was of the cylindrical variety. Tumours of this kmd always grow on mucous surfaces, which are covered with cylmdncal epithelium, such as the interior of the stomach and intestines. They are soft, present on section a milky juice, and often have a con- siderable resemblance to medullary cancer; and like malignant orowths they infect the neighbouring lymph glands, and occasion- allv give rise to secondary growths m the liver and lungs. Ihe anatomical characters of this form of cancer are a well-marked stroma and cylindrical epithelial cells arranged in its alveoli, perpen- dicular to the walls, as in an epithelial surface. Some examples of villous cancer, or “ cauliflower excrescence, have this struc- ture t This form of epithelioma is related to the glandular tumours, as the common form is to innocent epidermic growths. Epithelial cancer, in general, is a disease of middle or advanced life being almost unknown under the age of thirty. It is more common in men than women, and often appears to to some local irritation, as that of soot m the case of chin J sweens who are especially liable to epithelioma of the scrotum. Cystic Cancer, or Cysto.- Carcinoma.—A cystic growth sometimes « Trane Rath Soo xx. 28. The malignancy of epithelioma is tn-eatty influenced by physical conditions, being more vascularity, and amount of movement in the part. Thus rtJsto h.,a the glands and other parts when occurring on London, when growing from the skin of the cheeks or limbs. See Arnoit on cancer. r.onoo , l8+^Hutchinson : “ Trans. Path. Soc." viii. p. 264. Comil and Ranvier: “Manuel 1*Histologic Pathologiquo Gentfrale,” p. 280.