76 LETJOOCYTIUEMIA OE LETJCHJEJIIA. always clear, some authorities regarding them as produced by emigration of the leucocytes from the blood-vessels; others, as derived from proliferation of the connective tissue corpuscles. The new growths bear a close resemblance to the structure of a lymphatic gland, and are perhaps due to the enlargement of previously existing adenoid tissue. It is probable that many of the so-called secondary growths are really primary, and contri- bute, like the enlarged spleen and lymphatic glands, to the excess of leucocytes in the blood. The secondary changes are found most commonly on the mucous membrane of the intestines ; sometimes on the respiratory mucous membrane; and, further, in the liver and kidneys. More rarely they have been found in the heart, the retina, the suprarenal capsules; also in the thymus, thyroid, follicles of the tongue, tonsils, and, doubtfully, in the lungs. The organs in which these changes are found are usually abnormal in other respects also. The liver is often very greatly enlarged, and this not so much by lymphatic formations as by enlargement and multiplication of the liver cells. In the kidneys (which, are also often enlarged) we find swelling of the epithelium iu the uriniferous tubes; sometimes proliferation, and other marks of inflammation. In mucous sur- faces the swellings first produced by enlargement of the follicular structures may soften, and lead to ulceration. In the retina, beside minute lymphatic formations, are seen remarkable paleness of the vessels, and peculiar white spots. These changes, consti- tuting the Retinitis leukcsmica of Liebreich, may be observed with the ophthalmoscope. Symptoms and Causes.—The coming on of the disease is usually very insidious. Emaciation, weakness, extreme pallor, and other signs of anaemia, are early symptoms. Dyspnoea is also frequently noted, and later on haemorrhage from various parts (especially from the nose), and dropsy. In women amenorrhoea, and other distui'bances of the sexual functions, are observed. Diarrhoea is a frequent symptom; vomiting is less often present. The affection has been more often observed in males than females, in the ratio of 16 to 9. It seems “ to be most common in adult life, and more frequent in advanced age than in youth.” Some febrile dis- turbance is not unfrequent, but not to any great degree, or of long continuance. Little is known of the causes of this disease. In a few cases there has been an antecedent history of syphilis; in others, of ague (though the ordinary enlargement of the spleen in the latter disease must not be confounded with the leuchaemic enlarge- ment); and, occasionally in women, some disturbance of the sexual functions, such as exhaustion after parturition, or repeated miscar- riages. But in the great majority of cases none of these influences have been traced, and the malady has remained quite unexplained. The prognosis is extremely bad, no case of recovery being known when the disease was well established.