SEPTICAEMIA. 119 | cases which appear to fall under this head. They are those m which death has followed some injury complicated with gangrene, ^ bed-sore, urinous infiltration, what has been called pseudo- erysipelas, &c. The most remarkable post-mortem phenomenon -is the extremely rapid decomposition of the body, and the enor- mous evolution of gas; so that even in winter, and less that : twenty- four hours after death it maybe swollen and discoloured in as frightful a manner as in summer after some days. Numerous cavities containing gas are found in the viscera ; and on examina- tion both these and the blood are found to swarm with the bacteria of putrefaction. The occurrence of these at such a time after death, and in such numbers, is so exceptional that it must be ^regarded as the consequence of disease existing during life; and considering that the diseased parts (gangrenous wounds, foul bed- - sores, parts infiltrated with urine) also swarm with bacteria i. during life, it seems reasonable to conclude that these bac- • teria were distributed by the circulating blood to various parts of : the body; though the most conspicuous results of their activity : arc manifested after death. Of course the chemical substances «which always accompany bacteria in putrefaction must also have been present. In this sense we understand the word septicaemia. S Since, however, both here and in the corresponding experimental j disease, chemical products as well as bacteria are present, we can- not tell which should be regarded as the morbid poison. In any case the bacteria must not be confounded with the specific organ- isms which are supposed to be the cause of pyaemia or other - specific diseases; since these, if they exist, are certainly distinct from the ordinary putrefactive forms (Cohn). The following more recent works may be referred to on pyaemia anil septicaemia:— Virchow. “ Gesammelte Abhandlungen.” 1856. Bristowe. Article Pyaemia, in “ Reynolds’ System of Medicine.” > VoL I. 1866. Hueter, in Pitha und Billroth’s “ Handbuch der Chirurgie.” Band I. Abth. 2. 1869. Savory. “ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports,” 1865, 1866, ‘ 1867. 0. Weber. “ Deutsche Klinik.” 1863, 1864, 1865. s.v. Klebs. Abstract from a Swiss Journal, in Virchow’s “ Jahres Bericht” for 1870. Vol. I. Billroth. “Surgical Pathology” and Papers in “ Archiv. fur Klin. Chirurgie,” 1862 to 1867. Feltz. “ Des Embolies Capillaires.” 2nd edition. Paris. 1870. Burdon Sanderson. “ Pathological Transactions,” vol. xxiii., p. 303, 1872; “ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,” 1873 ; “Re- ' ports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council.” Cohn, on Bacteria; “ Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen,” Part II., 1872 ; “ Quart. Journ. Micr. Science,” April, 1873.