809 DISEASES OE THE JOINTS. serum is infiltrated, and blood in small spots extravasated through its tissue, as ■well as through that of the fibrous capsule of the joint, and neighbouring cellular structures. As the disease ad- vances, the infiltration and thickening of the neighbouring struc- ture increase, they become filled ■with a gelatinous, lardaceous, ■white product, in the midst of which fibrous tissues, capsules, ligaments, or aponeuroses, can be no longer recognized. Here and there, in the mass, there are cavities of different dimensions, the lining of which is vascular, spongy, and granulating, and the contents purulent. The muscles near the joint are pale and flabby, infiltered and attenuated. At length the infiltration reaches the subcutaneous cellular and adipose tissues, and the integuments become fixed to the disorganized structures beneath. The diseased joint then presents the following external appearance : it is swollen, and always more or less bent; it feels everywhere soft and flabby, or in some spots flabby, in others firm, elastic, doughy, and at the same time tuberculated; the integuments over it are tense and pallid, leuco-phlegmatic, or they are traversed by varicose veins. At length ulceration commences, and advances in various direc- tions. “ Externally, the capsule ulcerates in one or more spots, and then the soft parts adjoining it. In some instances large openings form in the capsule, and connect the joint with ulcerated cavities in the soft parts ; in others, mere sinuses are formed ; but in either case they open externally through the skin, and occasion and maintain a discharge of the contents of the joint. Internally, the interarticular cartilages and the ligaments ulcerate, the carti- lage covering the bones, when brought into contact with the matter, is destroyed in the way that has been mentioned, and the ulcer- ative inflammation attacks even the bones, if they have not been involved already. The cavity of the joint appears like a cloaca, surrounded with a gelatino-lardaceous mass; the integuments covering it are of a dark-red hue, and are especially discoloured at the orifices of the sinuses. The joint contains pus or sanies of an offensive odour and variously discoloured, the repeated haemorrhages which take place when there is acute caries of the bones, very fre- quently giving it a red or brown tinge ; the ligaments ulcerate, and the cartilages separate partly, or entirely, from the bones; the osseous surfaces are laid bare, thoir compact wall is destroyed, and the spongy tissue is exposed, infiltered with pus and ulcerating, and surrounded on all sides by osteophytes of various shapes; remains of the fibrous structures of the joint, pieces of loosened cartilage, and of necrosed bone, are mixed with the matter dis- charged from the joint. The soft parts, and the entire bones belonging to the diseased joint, are wasted, most of the fat is absorbed, the muscles are remarkably blanched and thin, and the bones, being generally in a state of eccentric atrophy, are soft and fragile. More or less quickly after the disease has reached this stage, spontaneous dislocations, as they are called, ensue. Chronic