710 MOllBID CONDITIONS OF HIE UEETIIEA. vesical cancer commonly assumes. This may he of very various consistence, and often very vascular, easily bleeding, and situated especially at the trigone, the neck, the fundus, and the vicinity of the urethral orifices. It is developed in the submucous tissue, but as it grows, the mucous membrane is destroyed, and either an ulcer is produced, or a soft, luxuriant, fungous mass. It produces irritation of the bladder, more or less difficulty in micturition, and, in the latter stages, haemorrhage, which may be considerable, and difficult to arrest. The urine contains mucus, sometimes blood, cancerous detritus, and portions of eneephaloid matter at various times when fragments happen to become detached. Simple papillary outgrowths are also confounded under the same name of cauliflower excrescence, and their distinction from cancer is very difficult. They are composed of simple fibrous tissue, covered with thick layers of vesical epithelium which, from its great variety of form may easily, when it appears in the urine, be confounded with cells of cancer. I hemorrhage and other symp- toms like those of villous cancer occur. It rarely happens that, as in a case reported by Dr. Dickinson, masses of tissue are expelled during life which can be positively recognized as cancer (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xx. p. 233). MOBBED CONDITIONS OF THE UBETHBA. Congenital Malformations.—We notice the following malforma- tions :—Fissure on the upper surface (epispadias), or on the lower (hypospadias); the former, when exlending the whole length, occurs as a complication of eversion of the bladder; the latter accom- panies fissures of the scrotum, and occasions a resemblance to the female conformation. The urethra may terminate at various points of its normal course, in the perimeum, the root of the scrotum, or anywhere between this and the glans ; the opening in these unnatural situations is very small, and sometimes is completely closed (atresia urethree). A kind of cloacal formation may also be produced by the urethra terminating in the rectum, or in the female in the vagina. The diameter of the canal may be con- genitally narrowed at the extremity, or at other parts, and dilata- tion of the bladder, or cystic dilatation of the kidneys may result.^ Contraction, however, is much more commonly the result of inflammatory disease, under w’hich head we shall describe it. Dilatation of the urethra is often produced by some obstruction to the flow of urine; it occurs for the most part, in the mem- branous portion, which is expanded into a pouch, sometimes as large as a small orange. The mucous lining of these pouches is usually “ injected and thickened, presenting fungous vegetations, and occasionally < cat id with lymph.” Dilatation may also be caused by a calculus. The urethra is frequently distorted from its normal direction, either by the dragging of a large scrotal hernias