738 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. face, and fill themselves, as their growth proceeds, with successive deposits of materials, which are probably poured out when the gland is the seat of vascular excitement.* It is most prdbable that in ordinarily healthy states these concretions undergo solution at an early period of their existence, yielding up their contents to Fia. 178. Prostatic concretions magnified. (Dr. H. Jones.) form part of the secietion of the gland. But if this does not occur, and they go on increasing in size, they become the nuclei of, or are developed into, prostatic calculi. They are sometimes very nume- rous, as many as fifty or sixty having been found in an atrophied dilated prostate, which has, in consequence, when examined ptr rectum, given the sensation of a bag of marbles. The calculi some- times cohere together, and form a large mass, projecting into the membranous portion of the urethra, which becomes in consequence much dilated. A remarkable case of this kind has been lecorded by Dr. Herbert Barker,! in which twenty-nine calculi, weighing together 1,681 grains, were cemented together so as to form a single concretion, which was nearly five inches long, and of an elongated pyriform shape. The surfaces of these calculi are faceted from mutual pressure; they are of a whitish or reddish colour, of porcellaneous lustre and hardness, with a radiated, * The organic base of these concretions has the same shape and arrangement as the mineral constituents, and is apparently albuminous. Their formation seems ° admirable instance of the process called “ molecular coalescence by - r. * ’ which we have refereed to in the ca.se of urinary calculi. Mr. Ramey baa> “' ’ . the carbonate of lime, when formed by double decomposition m an al - .' mucous, or gummy medium, assumes the form of concent 11c bodies the prostatic calculi and also certain urinary calculi of the horse. Mi. \ anc 5 has seen similar spheroidal forms in phosphates.—Ed. .. f “ Transact, of Prov. Med. and Burg. Association,’ vol. in. IS16.