•126 ENTOZOA. cervical and axillary glands, which may equally give rise te infil- tration of the surrounding parts, and then be reproduced m distant organs; sometimes by embolism, as the growths often peitoiate the walls of veins. . , . . , Secondary growths of sarcoma also often occur, as in the inguinal or femoral glands, subsequently to the occurrence of a similar tumour in the limb. This secondary infection is not quite so common as in carcinoma. . . , - , .. Carcinoma.—Taking this designation m the strict sense in wnich it is now understood it appears doubtful whether it ever occurs prima- rily in lymphatic glands. As a secondary growth it is, however, extremely common ; and the usual path by which a primary carci noma infects the whole body is by infecting first the lymphatic Epithelioma.—A very few cases have been descnbed^ ot this growth occurring primarily in lymphatic glands. _ 11 . * . . ® described some years ago such an affection of the inguinal lym- phatic glands oil both sides in a chimney sweep. Forster speaks of a similar case; and a few more are recorded by Lan^nheckas occurring in the neck; the latter are supposed by Luche» to. have grown from subcutaneous dermoid cysts. Secondary affections are extremely common. MELANOSIS. An affection to which the glandular system, and especially those Darts in relation to the respiratory organs, is very Prone> ?? melanosis • it is not, however, to be looked upon as a morbid process in itself, but rather as an evidence of the depurating func- tions by which they assist in eliminating the superfluous carbon from the body. We have shown elsewhere that melanosis does not. in itself constitute a malignant disease, and that it does not con- sist of a new formation, though frequently complicated, with som new growth. While it is unusual to find black matter m the'lym- phatic ganglia of the abdominal or inguinal regions, we consta i meet with it in the glands surrounding the bronchi. much . , pigment here seen is undoubtedly carbonaceous m^terlI^S “ g the breath and conveyed from the lung by Te=selS* Another part, again, is due to haemorrhage m the lun0. ENTOZOA. Almost the only known instance of entozoa bei nT^qveutler^r elands, is recorded by Rudolphi.t It was discovered by Treut e , '«! !’°Sren,cdiliS worms in the bronchial glands. . Pitlm und Billroth : « Oiinnyic.” ii. 1. P- »*T. + “ Ento?oorum Histona Naturahs, lol.u. p.