26G RED SOFTENING. proof that inflammation had not occurred; for they are not always present * in undeniable abscesses, where molecular granules and pyoid bodies may be the sole objects detected by the microscope. We are further borne out in this view by Dr. Bright, t who expressly states that we can hardly restrict the term abscess of the brain to those very rare cases in which well-iormed pus is found in the substance of the cerebral mass. We have already alluded to the presence of granule-cells, which are detected by the microscope in degenerative and inflammatory affections of the encephalon. They will here be found m large numbers, and will assist in establishing our post-mortem diagnosis, though, as has been said, not necessarily evidence of inflammation. The necessary disorganization of the cerebral tissue, which must ensue in each of these cases, causes the presence of broken-up nerve matter, which the microscopic specimens will be found to contain. When we have to do with red or apoplectic softening in which hemorrhage has occurred, we shall also detect blood corpuscles in a more or less altered state. A rough way o e er mine the presence of softening is, to allow a gentle stream o water to fall upon the suspected part; the softened parts will more or less readily give way and break up. Authors have distm- guished from 'this form of disease another which they calljVow softening, but it is now generally agreed that it tion of the condition produced by inflammation; the difference of colour being due to changes in the extravasated colouring matter ^W^reg^'rd to the locality of red softening, authors are not agreed as to the preponderance of its occmrence in t , white matter; while Gluge and Durand-Eardel are°fo>mon th^ it is more frequently met with m the former; Dr. Bennett s re to assert that the rdrite matter » tie seat of this morbid action. Drench physicians lookJP™ mg of the superficial laminse of the convoluteions ms pecuhatr to dementia, and state that it is characterized^ by porfann^; of tke matter adhering to the meninges v hen they aie remt T a horde has pointed out that this condition often coincides with softening of the corresponding portions of the centra gang a, wi lections of fatty molecules round the vessels aie w ? ■Z in cases h red softening, they »njin £ necessarily evidence ot mflammataoii. Thej .g Qut of generations of the nerve centres, v AfM Prevost and Cotard the question, and have been observed by MW iievost ana “iiSinmuifttion of the Nervous Centres,