MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. 817 is, during the progress of the ulceration, attacked from its attached surface. Nipple-shaped processes of vascular cellular texture pass from the bone into the attached surface of the cartilage ; the latter undergoing the change already described. The processes from the two surfaces may thus meet half way in the substance of the car- tilage, or they may pass from the attached surface, and project through a sound portion of the external surface of the cartilage, like little vascular nipples or granulations. The cartilage may be thus riddled, or it may be broken up into scales of various size and thickness, or it may be undermined for a greater or less extent, or be thrown into the fluid of the cavity of the joint in small detached portions, or it may entirely disappear.” Mr. Goodsir believed the cells of new formation, the nucleated particles of the false mem- brane, to be the immediate agents in the absorption of the car- tilage. We have had several opportunities of verifying the above account, and have already mentioned two instances in which we observed a similar change in ulcerating or wasting cartilage. Proliferation of Cartilage Cells.—The description given by Goodsir, many years ago, has been confirmed, not only by the observations in the text, but by those of Bedfern and others. Of late years it has assumed much importance as the type of an inflammatory process leading to suppuration in non-vascular parts, and com- parable in this respect to inflammation of the cornea. Numerous observations on inflammation of cartilage, produced artificially, have been made by Kremiansky, Cornil and Eanvier, and others! The general result has been to show that inflammation produces the same series of changes described in the text; the cartilage corpuscles breaking up into groups of young cells not to be cbstingiiished from pus corpuscles; as in the cornea (p. 88). Cohnheim, regarding all pus corpuscles as preceding from the vessels, contends the multiplication of the cartilage (or corneal) • cells is only a process of breaking-up, or retrograde, not pro- Igressive metamorphosis; and that the pus corpuscles actually observed all come from the vessels. It is generally admitted that • the number of corpuscles thus produced by the cartilage cells must be small, and probably the proliferative process soon ceases. Heitzmann,* in numerous careful observations on cartilages injured by heat, could not trace any actual pus-formation. In some of 'the affections in which proliferation occurs, as chronic rheumatoid arthritis, and acute rheumatism, MM. Cornil and Eanvier clis- ' tmguish the new cells from pus, or inflammation cells, regarding them as actual cartilage capsules of secondary formation; and 'State that the wall of the cartilage capsule can always be distin- guished by iodine. In purulent synovitis they believe actual pus to be produced. * Stiicker’s “Mecliz. Jahrbueher,” 1872, part iv.