216 CESTOID PAEASITES. sessos no mouth, digestive or respiratory apparatus, hut is furnished ■with d system of canals opening externally, called the “water- vascular system,” the function of which is obscure. Each of the posterior or mature segments, called a proglottis, has complete male or female sexual apparatus, and when impregnated by union with another proglottis, produces within it a large number of eggs, which become developed into embryoes while still within the body of the parent. Each proglottis may accordingly be regarded as a single zoological individual, and the whole tapeworm, called techni- cally a strobilus, as a compound organism, comparable in some respects to a compound polyp. The proglottis, when it has matured its ova, drops off spontaneously from the strobilus, and is cast out of the intestine of its host. The embryoes appear to become free by the rupture of the proglottis sac, hut are still contained within an eggshell; which is, however, dissolved by the digestive juices of any animal within whose stomach it may by chance find its way. The embryoes of the human tapeworm, dispersed over the ground or in water, are taken up with the food of animals, most commonly of pigs, but sometimes also of cattle. On arriving in the stomach of the pig, the embryo or scolex is set free by the digestion of its eggshell, and aided by an apparatus of six boring-hooks which it hears on its head, makes its way through the walls of the stomach or intestine into some blood-vessel, along which it is carried into the capillaries of some distant part of the body, most commonly (in this species') into the muscles. On becoming stationary, the embryo loses its apparatus of hooks and becomes surrounded by a cyst, while it is itself converted into a bladder fined by a con- tractible parenchyma. Erom the inner surface of this parenchyma there buds forth a structure which ultimately becomes a “ scolex” form and precisely resembles the ‘ ‘ head of the tapeworm.; hut which remains coiled up within the cyst. In this condition the animal is known as cysticercus {tela) ce.lulosce : and its presence in the flesh of the pig constitutes the disease known as measles. The cycle of transformations is completed, when the cysticercus or measle is transferred by the use of pork as food into the stomach of man or some carnivorous animal, where the cyst being dissolved, the scolex becomes free, and attaching itself to the wall of the small intestine, proceeds to develop into a new strobile or tape- worm form. The frilly developed cysticercus varies m size from that of a pea to that of a small kidney bean, presenting an aver- age diameter of £in., though sometimes exceeding it consider- ably (Cobbold). Its shape is oval in the muscles, round m soft parts or in the cavities of the brain. While the ordinary course of development is that above described, it is possible for the larval or cystic form to become established in the human body, especially m the brain, the intermuscular or subcutaneous connective tissue, and more rarely the liver, kidneys, eyeball, &c.: it is in mail usually single, but there may bo several individuals, though rarely or never tho onormous numbers met with in the pig. lhe time