191 CAUSES OF CANCER. mined by the peculiarity of its site, as it seems almost invariably to be developed on free coll-bearing surfaces. J Inheritance of Cancer.—There is much probability in the common opinion that cancer is an hereditary disease. Dr. Walshe ac- knowledges his belief m the disease having thus originated in some cases which he witnessed; and, indeed, most persons might confirmatory testimony. Still actual statistical proof has not yet been afforded. Cancer is, on the whole, a disease of advancing age; it does indeed exist, occasionally, at every Fn fhfi°ff^f6 ’ botVcm'hu« and encephaloid have been observed fUl’-mand e,nTplml0Kl 18 not uncommonly seen in WnklFo C\id?°0t tender years; but the researches of Dr. W she show that the mortality from cancer “goes on steadily decade until the eigSi year, so that taking the mean of both sexes, it attains its maximum between the ages of seventy and eighty. In males the ratio of increase is more uniform than in femafes; in them ofThirto fndafiftld raPld, asf of mortality between the ages ot thirty and fifty, which “lends support to the current belief respecting the connection of the development of uterine and genital functions. The influence of sex upon the develonment of cancer is very striking; Dr. Walshe’s tables show that in £x years an absolute number of deaths from this disease, in males was^nTy 3,49o, compared with 10,146 in females, although the mean rate of mortality m the male exceeds that in the female , by seyeral who have paid attentmn to me question to predispose m some measure to cancer. More nower ful are the effects of mental distress, and of the r7fininl but EsTowh?Tll°f Ci^zedlife’ atleast’ sucb arothe'con- seems to A facF^61106 2“* ^ be obtained at present "W-ilslio ? i r ■, ^ /act of a rather opposite import which Dr than 5® ! l SheS’ 18 that a towu De lias no greater influence fact a emit0ne’, m promoting the development of cancer; in towns ■ nnnrmbf °f cancer m tbo country than in the f °,8’ thl8 aPPbes to the mean of both sexes, but takiru- the fro" ^ «-“■ oTZnJIltutiInfLt: obtained by Andral. with regard to cerebral d tb® r®sult. mg injury, show that but little is to be IttributodT’ °W~ c.us, H.bUual