12 PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF some one of the numerous agents before mentioned. It should be remembered, however, that the first effect of all these agents is to separate the red colouring matter from the globules, and dissolve it in the liquor sanguinis, and this change has often been observed. When this is the case the walls of the vessels, and the tissues in immediate contact with them, very commonly become saturated with a red colour, which must be carefully distinguished from that which accompanies inflammation. The effect of diluting the liquor sanguinis upon the blood globules is exceedingly well shown by an experiment performed by Mr. Lane. An animal was bled, and the serum, after the formation of the clot, was as usual colourless, or of a light yellow ; a certain quantity of matter was then injected into the veins, and soon after blood was again drawn. The serum of this, however, was of a decided red, contrasting strongly with that of the preceding quantity. It was, therefore, quite clear that the hmmoglobin had been removed from the globules, and dissolved in the serum. We have observed the same thing with the micro- scope in the blood of frogs, and in that of foetal vertebrata. When the globules have not been exposed to the action of water, or only in a slight degree, the whole mass is permeated with red fluid; but when water has been freely added, the red fluid entirely disappears. It seems very probable, as Dr. WTlliams suggests, that the in- stances of sudden death occurring immediately after copious draughts of cold water in an exhausted state of the system, have been in some measure owing to such alterations of the blood globules as we have just noticed. The same changes may also be concerned in the phenomena consequent on excessive losses of blood, especially in occasioning the local congestions which are apt to take place in them, and in the anaemic generally. Roki- tansky mentions that he has observed in a septic state of the blood an altered condition of the globules, which are swollen up from their natural disc-like shape, and have parted with much of their colouring-matter to the surrounding fluid. The same thing was observed by Kiihne in the blood of dogs, in whom artificial icterus had been produced by the injection of salts of the bile acids into their veins; but there is no similar observa- tion on record in cases of icterus in the human subject. Separation of the colouring matter also occurs, locally, in almost all cases of stagnation of blood, as from obstruction of vessels; it also accom- panies for the most part actual extravasation. In the disease known as purpura the colouring matter alone appears sometimes to transude, though more generally there is extravasation of the blood globules also; and in many purpuric or petechial patches met with on the surface of internal organs after death colouring matter alone, without any organic elements, is met with. When this condition of the blood is observed after death it is important to bear in mind that it may be a sign merely of very rapid decom- position of the blood, and have tho same significance as the livid