ACTIVE HYPERJEMIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. 51 may be said to suffer what is equivalent to anaemia 1 think it not improbable that the same fact may contribute to explain the continued non-development of those effusions which arise from passive hypersemia.” It thus appears that atrophy, rather than hypertrophy, is likely to be the result of abiding con- gestion of any part. Remote Consequences of Congestion,.—The effects of congestion of a part, especially if it be one of some magnitude, may not be 1 confined to the part itself, but may affect the system generally. This appears in two respects, one being a degree of faintness aud i depression (v. Junod’s boot), occasioned by the withdrawal of a i considerable quantity of blood from active circulation ; the other, i an injurious influence exercised on the whole blood-mass by the (deteriorated portion, which slowly and partially returns into it 1 aguin from the seat of congestion. It is clear that an excess of 1 blood poured into one part, and detained there, must leave others .imperfectly supplied; the local hypersemia, according to its extent, ! produces a degree of general anaemia. That blood which has lon~ '.been stagnant in a part must be in an unhealthy state is very com- jprehensible, ancl that, by its mingling with the general mass of tblood, deterioration of the same will be induced, and therewith a (cachectic state. ACTIVE HYPERyEMIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. In this the second variety of local hypersemia, the phenomena convey the idea of mcreased activity and vigour in the vital rprocess. The flow of blood to the part is increased; the capillaries ^without being greatly distended, are well filled, and the blood ■which ^ they contain having an arterial rather than a venous character gives a red flush to> the part, very different from the duller tint of congestion. In consequence of the fullness of the (capillaries, and perhaps also of some increased exudation, there •is some turgescence of the part33 and its temperature is elevated The arteries aiso become eniarged, to admit the increased quantity of blood, and pulsate with more than ordinary force. This enlanre- rnent becomes permanent when the hypertemia is a permanent and natural state. The veins also enlarge, but are not distended •as m congestion. The sensibility of the part is commonly increased’ ts function may be, or may not, aud the same is true of its growth’ Distinction of Healthy and Morbid Hyperemia.—'Bus brines us u the inquiry whether active hypersemia may not be distinguished nto two forms, one to be regarded as healthy, associated with increased vital power and capacity for action; the other morbid Attending upon and promoting unnatural action, resulting in disease and decay There are many well-known and oft-quoted ■xamples of healthy hyperaemia, such as the female breasts .luring gestation anil lactation, the uterus during the period of