HfEHORRHOIDS. 609 land, from whom we continue to quote, describes them “ as not so disposed to enlarge at particular periods, and as more permanent and less painful than ” the first variety. “ They are commonly of a dark or bluish colour, and soft and elastic to the touch.” They are easily emptied by compression, but quickly fill again. “ They are round and broad at the base, and often distributed in irregular or ill-defined clusters,” which extend often for some way up the rec- tum, sometimes even as far as the colon. M. Begin observes “ that, in most cases, the dilated, superficial, submucous, or sub- cutaneous veins are only the smaller part of those surrounding the rectum. Sometimes the lower part of this in- testine appears as if plunged in the middle of a network of dilated and engorged veins, forming a thick vas- cular ring, the incision or puncture of which may give rise to dangerous haemorrhages.” It in consequence of inflammation or congestion of the varicose vessels, exudations of plastic matter take place around or in the substance of these tumours, they become more solid, and more or less similar to those of the first variety. Sometimes the products of inflammation are deposited within the dilated vessel, which induces its obliteration, and the atrophy of the tumour! Perhaps in some cases the reverse takes place, a vein within an originally solid tumour may become considerably dilated. In short the varieties met with seem chiefly to depend on the predominance of vascular dilatation, or surrounding plastic exudation. A third variety of hremorrhoidal tumours are described as of an erectile character. They are soft and spongy, and of a purplish colour, and give rise to considerable losses of blood. Dr. Colles found in one case “blood-vessels of the size of crow-quills, running for some way down the intestine, then dividing each into numerous ramifications, and each forming by the interfacing of its numerous branches one of these erectile or vascular tumours. The trunks and branches of these vessels were covered only by the linin" membrane of the intestine.” Some htemorrhoidal tumours appear to result from the effusion and coagulation of blood in the sur- rounding tissue. The reality of this occurrence is denied by nokitansky, but we quite acquiesce in the remarks of Mr. H. Lee,* that it is by no means easy to determine whether the delicate, smooth, and shining membrane lining the cavities, in which the coagula are contained, is the lining membrane of the venous system, or one of new formation derived from the blood itself. * “ Med. Gaz.” Aug. 1818. P. R Fir,. 138. A slightly lobulated tumour di- vided in its middle, and the cut sur- faces exposed. It was passed per anum. It seems to have been formed by exudation taking place around varicose dilatations of the veins. The cavities seem to have resulted from the dilatation of mucous follicles.