50 CONSEQUENCES OF CONGESTION. found in the peritoneal cavity after death, in cases of ascites, and the same are also seen occasionally in the fluid evacuated by para- centesis. We have also seen blood-globules so uniformly dispersed through the fluid that there could be no doubt that they had escaped from the congested sub-serous capillaries, and were not accidentally mingled with the effusion. The same products of con- gestion also occur in the urine when obstructive disease of the heart throws back the blood on the renal veins. The secretion is albuminous, contains fibrinous casts of the tubes and blood- globules. Decided haemorrhage may also occur, as the result of extreme congestion, which may be dependent either upon venous obstruction or upon an atonic state of the vessels. Mehena, or haemorrhage from the bowels, is an instance of the first, passive menorrhagia and epistaxis of the latter. . _ Textural Changes resulting from Congestion.—It is a remarkable and instructive fact that congestion of parts never seems in the end to occasion hypertrophy; or, if this should appear to have taken place, closer examination proves that rather the reverse is the case; that the hypertrophy is what Rokitansky calls unreal. Enlargement of organs may indeed be a consequence of venous congestion, if it has not continued long enough seriously to inter- fere with their nutrition ; and is especially seen in very vascular parts, where the mere dilatation of capillaries and veins is doubtless one of the main causes of enlargement. The spleen, for instance, is usually found enlarged in cases of cirrhosis of the liver, where the portal vein is obstructed; and obstructive disease of the heart produces at a certain stage of the disease enlargement of the liver and kidneys. In the latter oases, however, certainly, and probably in the first the enlargement is only temporary, and the impaired nutrition which results from an inadequate supply of proper blood leads to a condition of atrophy, the external apP^* ance of which will vary according to the organ involved. In the skin there will be ulceration; in solid organs, such as the liver and kidney, there will be what is called fibroid degeneration, or better fibroid substitution; that is to say, a replacement of the proper secreting structure by a certain form of connective tissue. so that the organ will be in most cases actually smaller; ai ail events wasted, so far as its proper structure is concerned. We have already pointed out the impairment of vital power which congestion occasions, and the causes inducing it, which seem to afford an adequate explanation of the non-tendency to grotv development which is observed both m the affected part itself and in its interstitial effusions. The following sentence from Mr. Simon’s lecture recognizes and similarly explains t e ^ame a ‘ “ It is true that much blood is contained m the affected issu > it is blood that has insufficient means of renewing itsel , an its long detention in the part it acquires in an extreme egree, J character of venous blood. Thus, as regards mere bu - o oo , the part is over-supplied, but, in respect of the quality of b oo ,