G17 CONGESTION. compression of the intervening capillaries. That this is the true cause of the limitation of the congestion is proved by its exactly ceasing at the inner margin of the zone of fatty degeneration. Generally speaking, fatty change begins in the peripheral parts of the lobules, and it would seem that these portions contain physio- logically more fat than the central portions. Many of the cells in the congested part are seen tilled with dark yellow matter; very many, also, are atrophied, probably in consequence of the blood stagnating in the distended capillaries, while some granular pig- ment is diffused in the surrounding parts. The nutmeg appiearance may be exhibited in some degree by livers which are quite free trom fatty degeneration, but it is never so marked as in the con- dition just described. The correctness of this explanation may be shown by cuttin" a thin shoe of the liver and putting it under a low power of the microscope, or simply hold- ing it up to the light, when Fig. 140. the dark central portions will be seen to be compara- tively transparent, while the peripheral portions are opaque from the abundance of fatty cells. When the venous con- gestion becomes more gene- ral, occupying every part of the liver, the organ pre- sents a deep red colour throughout, though, even in this case, the centres of the lobules present the darkest tint; it is also en- larged often to a greatly increased size, and becomes more firm and prominent, so as to be readily per- ceptible to the touch, below the margin of the ribs, on the right side. The result of injecting a liver which is nearly drained of its blood, as one taken from a slaughtered sheep, is very instructive as to the amount •»f enlargement that may e produced by congestion. The organ swells up as the fluid is £ ana WhT iuJectud of nearly double ite W ’ bred-% more dense and solid, with its thin anterior Tnnrm'n P ominent and hard. Sappey found on weighing livers with the H (a) Section shoving lobules of the liver bounded by marginal zones in a state of fatty degeneration. The interior of the lobules is deeply congested, and contains much dark yel- low pigment m masses, but is less opaque than the marginal portion. (b) Cells loaded with pigment, atrophied cells and granular matter from the interior of the lobules.