59 EFFECTS OF ACTIVE HYPEK/EHIA. alteration which the attracted blood undergoes, and, haying under- gone, is either repelled or pushed on by the advancing current. We may illustrate this motive influence by the example of light bodies, when acted on by electricity. Two pith balls, one of which is in a negative and the other in a positive state, will attract each other strongly; but as soon as they both become negative or positive, they forcibly repel each other. Some similar relation must subsist between the blood and the tissues. The arterial blood is heterogeneous to the tissue, and is attracted to it. Having become venous, it is no longer so, and it ceases to be attracted, perhaps even is repelled. Now, we may conceive the attractive force to persist, or even to be exalted, while the change impressed in nutrition may be greatly lessened. Blood will then accumulate in the part, from not having undergone that vital change which it should, and the part will be hyperBemic. This would be the case in active hyperseroia of a morbid kind—in that which forms the first stage of common inflammation, in which the vital endowments of the part are lowered, and its functional activity lessened. In healthy hypersemia, on the other hand, the attractive and the changing influences are both increased. The blood does not accumulate, but only ministers adequately to the increased functional activity of the part. EFFECTS OF ACTIVE HYPERiEMIA. These, as already intimated, are different in the healthy and morbid varieties. In the first, the growth of the part, if the hypersemia continue long enough, is increased, it undergoes a true hypertrophy. Of this we have the best examples in the mus- cular tissue. At the same time, the function is more vigorously exercised; it has more capability for, and it performs more work. Of this the brain, under the influence of moderate determination of blood—such as some of our great orators used to induce by pretty free libations of wine—is a good example. Similar in- stances among glandular organs we have already noticed. That of the ovaries and uterus, at the catamenial periods, is very remarkable, and is evidently connected with the reproductive nisus, which manifests itself especially at these epochs. There seems no ground whatever to regard it as originated by nervous influence, but rather as the result of a mode of growth and nutrient action peculiar to these organs. The discharge of the ovarian ovum, and the catamenial flow, are the results of this hypersemia, but it is itself excited by the spontaneous activity of the structures. Thus curiously, as we see also in many other instances, are linked together the increased action of an organ and the increase of its supply of blood; in the healthy state, the former usually takes the initiative, and produces the latter, but is itself reacted on by it, increased, and carried on.