134 SIMPLE HISTIOID TUMOURS. way as those of the normal tissues; sometimes in quite a dif- ferent way; or else like the elements of normal tissues at an early stage of development. Proceeding from this basis, a classification of new growths as Homologous and Heterologous, has been proposed. Homologous growths are those which are like normal tissues of the body, heterologous those which are unlike normal mature tissues; those which resemble immature or em- bryonic tissues forming an intermediate class. But it should be understood that a new growth composed of simple and normal tissue may be heterologous if it occur in an organ of different structure and at a distance from tissue of the same kind (for instance, a car- tilaginous tumour in the lung), and a homologous growth is, strictly speaking, one which arises by continuous development from a normal tissue of the body and resembles it in structure. Such a process of development is in fact, one of simple increase, and might he called hypertrophy; but if we regard the increase in number of histological elements as the most important fact, the term Hyperplasia will seem preferable,' and thus all growths which are both in their origin and their ultimate form homologous may be called Hyperplastic. We can then use the corresponding term Heteroplastic for those growths, which are in the strict sense heterologous; that is, which are unlike the tissues from which they take their rise. It must be evident from what has been said that the production of hyperplastic tumours cannot be separated from the new growth of any simple tissue of the body out of tissue of the same kind. The product is called a tumour merely when it has a certain distinctness and isolation. We shall therefore consider the new growth of simple tissues under the same head as the corresponding tumours. SIMPLE HISTIOID TUMOURS. Those new growths which resemble the simple tissues of the body may be called Simple Histioid Tumours. This group includes the following species:—Fibrous, Mucous, Fatty, Cartilaginous, Osseous, Vascular, Glandular, Muscular, Nervous, and Lymphatic tumours. I.—HEW GROWTH OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE ; FIBROUS TUMOUR AND FIBRO-CELLULAR TUMOUR; FIBROMA. The new formation of connective tissue takes place in a great nurnbor of pathological conditions. It is the most important factor in the process by which wounds are healed in vascular parts, and perhaps also in non-vascular parts ; the same tissue often replaces special structures, such as nerve or muscle, when these are destroyed by violence or disease; and the production of connective tissue