121 TEXTURAL CHANGES. real hypertrophy in active organs seems to be always the increased exertion of the organ, more than usual effort is demanded of it, and according to the law of the circulation which we have noticed, more blood flows to the part than usual; this, if the organ be in a healthy state, not only supplies its waste, hut furnishes material for increase and development. The heart in various diseased states of its valves, the urinary bladder in stricture of the urethra, the remaining kidney when one has been destroyed, the muscles, and even the solid hones themselves, when long and actively exercised, afford excellent examples of true hypertrophy; which may in these cases he called functional. There may, however, be simply nutri- tive or passive hypertrophy; like that of the cock’s spur which . John Hunter transplanted from its foot to its head, and which there . grew to a very large size. Examples of this are seen in the rare cases where one side of the body or one limb grows to a gigantic 1 size; or is simply larger than the other. Again, conditions which cause an increased flow of blood to the part may sometimes (though not always) give rise to hypertrophy. Inflammation may have hypertrophy for its permanent consequence, as in enlargement of hones from chronic periostitis. lunctional hypertrophy, though in several instances it brings about an abnormal state of the part, is yet for the most part not to 1 be considered in the light of a disease. It is really a compensatory > effort made by the system to obviate as far as possible the evils ! arise from some damage that an important part has sustained. Thus, if we find the walls of the heart greatly thickened, and its i power proportionately increased, we should naturally fear that such an abnormal increase of power would prove a cause of danger to the system, and would probably induce haemorrhage in the ' bram, or elsewherebut if we know that at the same time there • e{Ps^s regurgitant disease of the mitral or of the aortic valves, then we see that the hypertrophy, so far from being attended with danger, is useful and necessary to enable the circulation to be carried on against such impediments. Hypertrophy usually depends on multiplication of the elements ot the part, not on enlargement of them; the ultimate fibrillre of Jjr^sele in a hypertrophied heart for instance are of the normal size. i inis multiplication has been called hyperplasia ; but such condition does not always lead to hypertrophy. It only means that new elements like the old ones are produced; but these new elements “lay quickly perish as they usually do in inflammatory hyperplasia ■ or they may be changed into something different from the original type dasff ^ n6W glWths’ many of which begin with a process of ■Atrophy is tho opposite condition to hypertrophy; and is com- moniy conceived of as implying a wasting and diminution of tho ‘i,,- f trophy however, may have taken place to a great extent Ut anJ diminution, but an increase of size. Thesearetho nstances of false hypertrophy, to which we have aboyo alluded.