NEW FORMATIONS. 410 Carcinomatous and allied growths, on the other hand, are very frequently discovered within the veins as an immediate extension of the disease, external to them. This may happen by actual perfora- tion of the venous wall, hut in other cases a sort of infiltration takes place, the wall remaining entire. The growth may also arise in a thrombus formed within the vein, without any continuity with the mass outside. Thus in cancer of the stomach and liver, it has been found in the vena portm ; in renal cancer, in the correspond- ing vein and the vena cava inferior; in uterine cancer in tne \ ena cava and its branches. Few of the observers of the cases on record have verified the fact of the cancerous nature of the con- tents of the vessels by microscopic examination, and in many instances fibrinous coagula have been mistaken for cancer, when coincident with the latter. We have, however, on several occasions established the presence of actual carcinoma in the renal veins when that disease affected the kidneys, and of a round-celled sarcoma in the portal vein when a similar growth connected with the head of the pancreas j surrounded the vein. The new growth may entirely fill the | vessel, and sometimes fragments detached from it may form emboli, which being arrested m the lungs may set up secondary growths there. , . . New formation of connective tissue takes place as a thickening of the wall, but never as an isolated tumour. Almost the only form of simple tumour known to affect reins is myoma, which has been occasionally observed. Vascular tumours, or angiomata, often proceed from veins. : .a, ui “'“O — X Calcareous Deposit.— Ossification very rarely affects the veins, hut cretaceous deposits are occasionally discovered under the lining coat, as in the case of which we have given a delinea- tion. Crnveilhier relates the case of an old man who died of gangrena senilis, in whom the veins accompanying the popliteal artery were studded with phosphatic deposit. Phlebolithes. —The concretions termed vein- stones or phlebolithes, are met with free in the cavity of the vessels. They are formed of con- . • t 1. ! b 4-UihIavuoI -1 Vil 11m Calcareous deposit xnet with in the choroid plexus, where, however, in the coats of a vein. tlie f01.mation is external to the vein. 1 hey are < UiLV-Llky V.IA y oocnnu. , , l centric lamina?, of which the internal are hanl aud brittle, while those forming the outer layers present a softer consistency. They closely re- present a softer consistency. They closely re- semble the concentric corpuscles so frequently