712 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. Fio. 169. acidity of the normal vaginal moisture may he a cause in some instances. Stimulating injections, the irritation of calculous frag- ments, the presence of stimulating diuretics in the blood, the matenes morbi of gout, of influenza, and the suppression of cutaneous eruptions, are mentioned as causes of this inflammation. Abrasions and excoriations of the urethral mucous lining are occasionally found when it is inflamed, but ulcerations are "'pro- bably) always the effect of other causes, The syphilitic poison producing urethral chancre, the presence of foreign bodies, calculi, &c., the irritation caused by a stricture in the part behind, soften- ing tubercle, are so many causes of more or less extensive ulcer- ation, It is said by Mr. Adams to occur in rare cases spontaneously'. Stricture of the Urethra.—A. very frequent result of inflammation is stiicture. This consists in a narrowing of the canal from some organic change in the structure of the part itself, or in that of those around. It may affect any part, but is most frequent at the junction of the spongy and the membranous portion. Out of 189'cases ex- amined by Mr. Phillips, the seat of the stricture was in 138 from four to six and a half inches distant from the meatus. Contusions and wounds occasion stricture of urethra, which in severe cases of the latter is extremely intract- able. The simplest form of stricture is when the canal is partially occluded by a fold of membrane passing across it; this may be of such a shape that a crescentic or sometimes an annular opening is left. Several of these strictures may coexist in the same urethra ; as many as eight are said to have been observed by Calot. It is thought that these result from the healing of an ulcer, or the raising up of a fold of the lining membrane. In the more common kind of stricture (which occurs in the spongy portion) the urethra is narrowed in a much greater extent of its course, and sometimes in an extreme degree. Half an inch or an inch is not uncommonly the length of the contracted part, and sometimes the whole extent of the spongy portion is affected. The stricture occupies sometimes one side, at others it completely encircles the canal. It is not difficult to understand the mode of its production, which is very illustrative of the general contractile tendency of exudation matter. Effusion and inflammatory new growth take place during inflammation in the mucous tissue itself, or in the submucous, as well as some- times in the corpus spongiosum; if this be not absorbed, it passes into the state of fibroid or induration matter, and continually tends to shrink up aDd contract into a narrower space. In proportion as this takes place the canal must be contracted. The mucous membrane lining the indurated part is often ulcerated and Strictured urethra.