TUBERCLE. 194 of a relatively large nucleus, surrounded by a small mass of proto- plasm. They sometimes approach both in size and appearance the white cells of blood or lymph. Large polynucleated cells of irregular shape, or “ mother-cells,” like the “myeloid cells of bone are also often met with, but they are not constant. These elements are, according to some observers, imbedded in a homo- geneous basic substance; but this is, in some instances, very scanty, and i3 extremely difficult to demonstrate; according to others, the cells are contained in an extremely fine reticulation, like that of a lymphatic gland, a kind of structure which has been called adenoid. We believe that sometimes a tubercle does develop into such a structure, but that in general it stops short of this degree of development. . The arrangement of these elements in the miliary tubercle is very curious and characteristic. The peripheral portions consist of distinctly formed cells, but towards the centre these become smaller and less definite in outline, and the central jiart of the tubercle is composed of amorphous or granu- lar matter, which is sometimes decidedly fatty, but has sometimes been described as homy. Since the central portions are the oldest, we conclude that this amorphous condition is produced by the atro- phy and decay of a structure pre- viously composed of formed ele- ments. The fact that when the structure has reached a certain size its elements begin to decay, is very characteristic of tubercle, and is probably connected with the fact that this growth, when it has reached this stage, contains no permeable vessels. In Fig. 45, roimueu uy ncoii/uj nnib *'“w f • . -1 • capillaries of -which are completely filled \yhich represents a minute nim- by injection from the pulmonary artery. a tubercle from the luug, it will (From an original preparation.) be seen that the very complete in- iection of the capillary network does not enter the tubercle. This does not show that no new vessels formed, but-that they very early became obliterated. A tubercle thus seems to be a structure inter- mediate between the products of inflammation aud the new growths properly so-called, being less transitory than the former, less permanent than the latter, and less capable of developimm. is form of tubercle never occurs solitary, and is generally seen m very large numbers. The disease in which they are produced has been termed tuberculosis. It is to be noticed that we generally speak of a grey miliary tubercle, or of tubercles in the plural; but it is not certain that the same product may not sometimes occur ui a more diffuse form. They are best studied on serous membranes, Fu>. 45. Grey miliary tubercle of the lung, sur-