CONNECTION OF GEE? AND YELLOW TUBERCLE. 198 deposition and liberation of calcareous particles in the tuberculous mass, together with simultaneous absorption of the animal matter, and consequent decrease in size. It is said by Bokitansky never to take place, except in softening, or softened tubercle; but this is, probably, too absolute an assertion. Ihe cretified tubercle very often remains as a hard, irregular mass, surrounded by indurated tissue, and appears to be insusceptible of further change: some- times, however, absorption proceeds further, and almost the whole of the deposit is removed. But when this is the case it is probable that absorption had predominated over the deposition of calcareous matter from the first. CONNECTION OF GREY AND YELLOW TUBERCLE. If we were to be guided merely by the descriptions just given of the physical characters and development of grey tubercle, and scrofulous or caseous matter, we might wonder that they were called by the same name, or supposed to have any connection wit one another. The actual connection between the two is, however, doubtless very close, though there is not yet a perfect agreement as to its nature. In the first place these two products are con- stantly found in the same body, and appear to be associated with the same diseases; and in the second place they are often found m the same organs, and m such a way that one appeal = to be eithe produced by or transformed into the other. V> ith respect to the first point, there are two very different views. It has been thought bv some since the time of Laennec, that the grey miliary tubercle marksTthe^arly stage of a disease of which yellow scrofiffous masses characterize a later stage ; while more recently it has bee asserted bv German pathologists (Buhl, Niemeyer, and other*) that miliary tubercles are a secondary result ot the presence in some part of the body, of caseous products. A corresponaing (uffe- rence of opinion prevails with regard to the local connection of the Iwo Laennec maintained that the grey tuberc e or grey granula- th,n was the nascent phase of the yellow, and drew attention to transitional forms between the two. According to more recent views the caseous or softened scrofulous matter causes, by a km rfTocal infection, the production of miliary tubercles in its neigh- L°rv!Zc' of Grey into Yellow Tulercle.-Wo may say at once that J have »« *Sl"Xt'ft.^SJnot’a.TSe rth“r DouS““ey“5U tubercles or at least yellow tubercle 1S tomically a1 distinction