'135 THE LABYXX. pink hue, and consists of a uniform epithelial surface, overlying a basement membrane, underneath ■which the vascular network rami- fies. The surface is broken only by the minute follicles which open upon it. In congestive and inflammatory states this vascular network becomes much distended; the membrane is rendered thick and soft by mere repletion in the first instance, and subsequently by inter- stitial effusion. The more lasting and chronic the inflammatory action, the more this thickened condition is established, and thus a • permanent hypertrophy of the membrane is effected. The colour :of an inflamed respiratory mucous membrane varies according to the intensity, and also according to the character of the inflamma- tion, from a bright crimson or scarlet, to deep purple or dusky red- . ness. The hypercemia is often found to be entirely local; this is chiefly the case in chronic affections : thus we may find it limited to the larynx, the trachea or the bronchi. The character of the inflammation necessarily determines the nature of the products which occur upon and beneath the membrane; tbus we find the 1 three forms of inflammation characteristic of mucous membranes, -the catarrhal, the croupous, and the diphtheritic. Catarrhal Inflammation.—The most acute form is probably that in which, from the contact of a powerful irritant, such as boiling ■ water, an instant effusion of serum takes place in the submucous tissue, causing its distension or cedematous swelling. We have already alluded to the cases in which children have met with their death in cousequence of drinking the hot contents of a kettle from '•ts spout. In some of these it appears that the oedema rather affects .he parts below the epiglottis than the epiglottis itself. Here it is he mechanical effect of the tumefaction of the loose tissue at the glottis and not the intensity of the pathological process, that pro- luces the fatal issue. In catarrhal inflammation of thelarynx, the dyspnoea, and affection >f the voice, depend mainly upon the amount of tumefaction at and lear the rima glottidis; during the first stage there is, as elsewhere, n the mucous membrane a sense of titillation, roughness, and pain; md as the stage of secretion supervenes, these symptoms subside md are relieved by expectoration. This presents various appear- mces to the naked eye ; at first it is a glairy viscid mucus, which ;ubsequently assumes a greenish or yellowish colour, losing its Adhesiveness and forming into opaque rounded pellets. If a blen- lorrhoeic state supervenes, the discharge assumes a purulent cha- ■acter. Under the microscope these varieties can scarcely be •distinguished. In each we find mucous corpuscles and epithelium ; nd if the inflammation has been of sufficient intensity to cause Hemorrhage, we shall also discover blood-corpuscles. Idiopathic aryngitis appears generally to be the result of atmospheric changes ; t runs a rapid course, and it is one of those affections in which0the ’erformanco of tracheotomy may become the means of saving the ■atient’s lifo. The disease acquires an historical interest, from tho ttrcumstance that it proved fatal to Washington. Rokitansky