433 THE EPIGLOTTIS. supervened within three or four hours, and when at this period the attempt was made to apply leeches, the child, a little girl of three • years of age, was much terrified, and screamed so violently, that t they could not be used. Prom this moment, however, respira- : tion became easy, and a speedy re- pI([ gg covery took place. The remedy which in such a case relieves the immediate symptoms, and may thus •be the means of saving life, is the operation of tracheotomy, though, . as in the instance from which the ; delineation was taken, not always - successful. (Edema of the epiglottis alone, ^without participation of the neigh- bouring parts, occurs rarely; and, when it does, is confined to the upper half. (Edema of the lower half is .accompanied by the same affection :of the upper part of the larynx.* Vicerations.—Ulcers of the epi- glottis are not unfrequent, more especially as complications of phthisis ; they are generally limited :o the inferior surface of the valve and to its mucous covering; though hey occasionally penetrate to the ibro-cartilage. They are not gene- rally accompanied by much tume- faction or reddening of the sur- rounding tissue. Louis t states that n all the cases that fell under his lotice, he only once observed ulce- rations on the lingual surface. He ound the breadth of the ulcers to ary from about one to two lines, n some cases the laryngeal surface I » . e epiglottis was entirely deprived f its mucous membrane: in four - he edge of the fibro-cartilage was destroyed, as well as the sur- ftf ulcerated, so as to give the part a festooned appearance ; in a 1 til the epiglottis was totally destroyed. The proportion of hthisical cases in which the epiglottis is affected, appears, accord- b, to the same author, to be about one-fourth. These ulcers are ot, however, the result of a fusion of tubercular deposit, which CEdema of the epiglottis, brought on by drinking scaldmg water, and causing the death of the child, a boy aged three years and nine months m two hours. The uvula, which is seen a little above and to the ri°ht of the epiglottis, was also oedema- tous. No other feature was ob- served, except some reddening of the bronchial mucous membrane, and congestion of the lungs Tra cheotomy was performed. >cjM4?",„\1v“Ut5%inflamraati°n COnlined t0 the ■» “Trans. Path, t “ Researches on Phthisis,” Sydenh. Soc. Ed. p. 42.