105 GRANULATIONS. •which has been subjected to moderate irritation, is a transparent, tenacious, more or less stringy fluid, of alkaline reaction, and more or less saline taste. The addition of acetic acid, or any -weak acid, produces a kind of coagulation, and the formation of a granu- lar precipitate, which Simon states is the mucine, the principal constituent of the fluid. It is insoluble in excess of acetic acid, which distinguishes it from albuminous substances. This is held in solution by means of an alkali, and consequently falls on the latter being taken up by an acid. Not much is known of this substance, except that it is a protein compound. Albumen or fibrine, treated with liquor potasses, forms a transparent, viscous mass, having much resemblance to its solution. The proper cor- puscles of morbid mucus are, as we are fully persuaded, and as the best observers state, quite identical with those of pus. They are usually mingled with epithelial particles, in very various stages of their formation, from a simple nucleus up to a complete cell. It is only in cases of prolonged and rather intense inflammation that traces of epithelium are wanting, and the so-called mucous cor- puscles are crowded together, and seem to load the fluid. It is Fig. 12. Separate corpuscles, and two blood globules. often very observable how the tenacious fluid, in which the cor- puscles are entangled, in consequence of being dragged in one direction, produces an alteration of their shape ; they thus become oval, or even staff-shaped. Granulous and oily matter is com- monly diffused through the liquor muci, just as it is through that of pus. It is manifest from what has been stated, that the difference between mucus and pus consists essentially in the different nature of the fluids, not in that of their corpuscles. The old question, as to the means of distinguishing between pus and mucus, is manifestly of little moment, and has, in general no interest for tho practical physician. It is sufficient to state that the liquor puris is albuminous, the liquor muci not so • that pus will mix with water, and mucus will not; that pus i’s dis- solved, in some measure, by acetic acid, while mucus is coagulated- and that mucus generally contains traces of epithelium, while pus does not; while pus contains a very much larger quantity of fat Inflammatory New Growth. Granulations. — The products ' of