DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 812 cause; but occasionally it is the consequence of repeated attacks of inflammation.” It rarely occurs elsewhere than in the knee, but has been seen in the ankle, and in a joint of the fingers. Sir B. Brodie classes it with malignant disease, but from this it is dif- ferenced by well-marked characters. It has also been called scrofulous, but Mr. Holmes contends that it is merely chronic inflammation. Arborescent Growths.—Another very curious alteration, which is sometimes observed in the synovial membrane, consists in its free internal surface being covered by a growth of large villous processes, quite perceptible to the naked eye, which hang into the cavity of the joint, and present a shaggy appearance. They are not deve- loped on the surface of the cartilages. They have sometimes the form of simple threads, or flattened shreds, or their free extremi- ties are split into filaments like a tassel, or they have a club shape, or resemble melon-seeds hanging singly or in clusters from each stalk. In structures they consist of a fibroid material, containing, we believe, in many instances more or less fat, and approaching herein to that peculiar form of fatty tumour which is called Lipoma arborescens. The healthy texture of the articulation is not materially interfered with, at least in many cases. These have been often regarded as outgrowths of the synovial fringes, but Virchow has traced some to sessile ecchondroses. Beside the more usual fatty and fibrous structure, some similar bodies contain cartilage, and others bone. Becoming detached from the pedicles, they form some of the masses called loose cartilages. We have seen both the loose and the pendulous masses in the same joint, in a case of ununited fracture of the neck of the femur, with chronic inflammation. The length of the pedicle varies much, and there seems reason to think that they may be sometimes origi- nally sessile outgrowths (ecchondroses) winch become pedunculated. But it seems that cartilage is sometimes found in the normal syno- vial fringes. In a pendulous body removed by Mr. Shaw from the knee-joint of a girl aged seventeen, the end of a needle was found to be the nucleus of the mass, which consisted of true cartilage and true bone. Mr. Shaw suggested that the needle had probably entered the external condyle of the femur, and there set up an ecchondrosis which became ossified, and finally so far detached as to be pendulous ; while evidently it might easily have become com- pletely detached. (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vi. 328.) These pendulous bodies are very common in chronic rheumatoid arthritis. Loose cartilages, or mures articulares (so-called), are not unfrequent in the cavities of joints. They are usually from the size of a millet- seed to that of a pea, but have been met with as large as a walnut. In shape they are more or less oval and flattened. Their surface is smooth, as if invested by a serous covering, which they some- times evidently possess, when they are attached to the synovial membrane by a pedicle of varying length. Formations of this kind commence in the sub-serous tissue, and as they enlarge, gradually