311 THE NERVES. be restored to its primitive condition, or again the part may ac- commodate itself to the change, and the nerve remain permanently enlarged and somewhat nodose. After partial or total division of a nerve these changes are liable to occur, and in an irritable con- stitution the deposit of lymph continues to act as a source of irri- tation, and induces intense pain. The occurrence of suppuration within the sheath necessarily gives the nerve a yellow colour, and causes the tubules to be broken up. In all inflammatory affec- tions of the nerves, the cellular tissue surrounding them will like- wise be found inflamed, It is questionable whether nerves are ever subject to any idiopathic inflammation, and when the sur- rounding parts are involved, these invariably attract much more attention than the nerve itself. Moreover, the statements on record, though but scanty, do not agree; thus, to return again to the vagus, which has always been the pet nerve of pathologists, probably owing to its size and superficial site, we find that Kilian has observed it to be inflamed fifteen times, in pertussis, while Breschet has only met with the occurrence twice, a relation that is the more surprising when we recollect that the sphere of ob- servation of the former is a small German provincial town, and that of the latter, the capital of France. Autenrieth, also, states generally, that he has found the vagi inflamed, in persons who have died of spasmodic cough. The cutaneous affection called Herpes Zoster has been attributed to inflammation of a nerve branch; but there is reason to believe that the original morbid change is here in the sympathetic system. Condition of the Nerves in Tetanus.—Two cases of inflammation of the nerve are given by Mr. Curling, * in his treatise on tetanus, in which healthy spots were found, between which the nerve tissue appeared inflamed. M. le Pelletier,! has also published several cases, in which the inflammation appeared propagated along the injured nerve, to the spinal cord, in tbe same disease. The most complete investigation, however, has been made by Froriep ; f in seven cases of tetanus, in which injury of a nerve had preceded, he has discovered a uniform lesion, resembling that indicated by Mr. Curling, and consisting in a tumefaction and reddening of isolated tracts, extending from the wound to the spinal cord; he has not found it in other cases, in which no tetanic symptoms prevailed. Rokitansky has observed in isolated spots in the track of the nerve, at very variable distances, bright red injection of the sheath of the nerve without any inflammatory products. Other careful observers as Forster § (in nine cases) have failed to find any such changes, so that we cannot regard them as constant. * “ A Treatise on Tetanus,” 1836, p. 72. + “ Revue Medicale.” 1827, vol. iv. p. 183. t “ Neue Notizen aus ilem Gebieto der Natur und HoilVunde,” 1837, vol. i. No 1. $ “ Handbuch der Path. Anat.,” vol. ii. p. 047 . 2nd edition.