. THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 418 Tissue formed of dilated lymphatics and lymphatic spaces is also seen in the peculiar form of enlargement of the tongue, called macroglossia. Tumours composed of lymphatic vessels corresponding to the teleangiectasis of blood capillaries have received the name ‘ ‘ lymph- angiectasis” or “ erectile lymphatic tumour” of Anger ; while a true cavernous tumour, produced by an actual new growth oi lymphatic vessels and spaces, has been described by Billroth and : Yirchow as lymphangioma cavernosum.* II.—THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Affections of the lymphatic glands are in most cases secondary, being produced by primary disease in the part with which the glands are connected. The irritation to which their affections are traceable, may proceed from some local lesions, from which it is earned to the neighbouring glands by the connecting lymphatic, as in the case of a sore on the prepuce, inducing bubo, or ofporrigo of the head, causing tumefaction of the cervical glands; or it may be excited directly by the morbid condition of the blood circulating in the capillaries of the glands. Simple acute inflammation is manifested by tumefaction, soften- ing and a highly vascularized state of the organ, causing it, on ° division with the knife, Pig. 95 m to distil blood, while its colour is changed from a reddish grey to a dark red or crimson tint. If suppu- ration has ensued, yellow spots first appear in diffe- rent parts, and eventually the entire gland mav be destroyed by the process, and be converted into an abscess, in which the sur- rounding cellular tissue is Cytogenous tissue, with thickened stroma. (Dickinson, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” yoL xxi. 1S70.) more or less implicated. The chronic form is, how- ever, the more common; a species of interstitial growth takes place, and induces gradual enlarge- ment and induration of the gland. On the other hand, a reabsorption of the interstitial deposit may occur, as we have frequent opporta nities of observing, as the effect of a suitable dietetic and medicinal * Virchow: ‘Kranli. Geschwfflste,” vol. hi. p. 490; LU'ke: “ Gesehwiilstc.” p. 2S7.