SYPHILITIC TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN. 278 in 'which, it occurs in one or the other alone is about equal, tiie pons Varolii is, in rare cases, the only seat of the deposit, _ In the lungs we frequently meet with satisfactory evidence oi the power of the system to reject and cure tubercle; we are not possessed of similar proof with regard to the brain ; the on j analogous process is that in which the vitality of the deposit seems utterly destroyed, and cretification results ; this is a metamorphosis which sometimes, though rarely, takes place m cerebral tubercle. We must not confound with cretification of tubercle, certain gritt\ or sabulous masses found in the brain; thus our notes contain the history of a case, in which, on a vertical section of the cerebel- lum the knife grated upon some calculous formations imbedded in the tissue, and intimately adherent to it; there proved to be, on each side, three or four irregularly crystallized masses, which broke up easily on pressure, and were not affected by either liquor potassm or acetic acid. There was no other perceptible disease of the cerebral tissue, but the choroid plexuses were covered with concentric corpuscles. Andral* gives, as a great curiosity, an analogous case, in which, however, the “ ossifications weie enit°Sshoulda be Mentioned that while miliary tubercle of the meninges is often found in the vicinity of a cerebral tubercle there is also a form of miliary granulation found in cases of general tuberculosis in the cerebral substance under the meninges, which in its relations to the vessels and other characters precise j resembles that met with on the pia mater. SYPHILITIC TUMOURS. Syphilitic growths in the brain are not common. Thcy resemble generally the gummata of other parts, being composed chiefly of greyish Lni-translucent matter, which is liable ^me — and crumbling on undergoing a caseous transformation. Accordi i - irt thev stand in an intermediate position between the.soft ^gummata^of mucous membranes or the gelatinous of the penosteim on the one hand, and the hard gummata of the liver and testicle o the other hand. ' They present, as a rule, a soft, transparen , ^om times gelatinous mass, surrounded by a delicate granulation-tissue °UThe°;aseous portions are firmer and more difficult to cut than ‘ Clinique Mddioale,” t. v. 719. ‘ Die Krankhoften Geschwulste, vol. u. p.