94 TERMINATION OF INFLAMMATION. rare, and they certainly prove the capability of the nervous influ- ence to set on foot the inflammatory process. We have already given some evidence that it is not through this channel that the causes of inflammation usually operate; but certain special cases of the connection of nerves with inflammation may be noticed. In the disease called herpes zoster, discrete inflammation of the shin is met with over the distribution of a certain nerve, and is doubt- less connected with some abnormality of innervation. The same is true of the skin disease called morphcea, or a form of scleio- derma. Various changes, such as oedema, hyperaemia, &c., are observed as the consequence of injury or division of nerve trunks by wounds ; but rarely true inflammation. Summary— Coinciding, as we completely do, with Sir J. -Paget in his enumeration of four conditions as necessary to healthy nutrition, and believing that the derangement of one of these primarily, with secondary derangement of the others, occurs in every case of inflammation, we might divide the various causes which we have noticed into such as affect—(1) the contractility oi the vessels; (2) the healthy crasis of the blood; (3) the nervous influence; (4) the life and nutritive actions of the part. TERMINATION OF INFLAMMATION. In strict language, there is only one termination to the inflam- matory process, viz., that which is commonly called resolution, in which the diseased action ceases to advance, and then recedes by the same steps as those by which it arrived at the condition of stasis. The microscopically visible phenomena have been before described, and they correspond to the subsidence of the general symptom, to the paling of the redness, the lowering of the tempera- ture, the lessening of the swelling and pain. The recovery of the part may be complete; but more often some, it may be slight, indications remain, for a time, of the by-past malady, and. of some deficiency of the vital powers. These consist, in some degree, ot congestion of the vessels, especially of the veins, from an enfeebled state of their contractility, in a less perfect fulfilment of the func- tion of the part, and in a proneness to relapse on the application ot slight exciting causes. . . » ,, Inflammations which arise in consequence of a mal-erasis of the blood rarely undergo resolution, or if they do it is only to reappear in another part, and perhaps a more important. This constitutes metastasis. A good example of this transfer of inflammation from one part to another is afforded by some cases of rheumatism, and occasionally by the disease called mumps. As long as the materies morbi continues to circulate in the blood, it will ten o exci e inflammation in one part or other: the best thing that can happen is, that it should locate itself in a part where it can produce no serious effects from interference with important functions, and there remain until the dyscrasia is at an end.