INFLAMMATION OF TIIE STOMACH. 560 superficial erosions or commencing ulcers are seen. The sub- mucous tissue is also injected; the muscular coat usually relaxed, so that dilatation results. These changes seldom extend over the whole surface, but are usually confined to one part, mostly the pyloric half. In arsenical poisoning, however, the arsenic being applied to a wound in the skin, the hyperaemia, which is very intense, chiefly affects the splenic region, and, what is curious, J the upper parts of the folds are much more congested than the i 10 Acute inflammation of the stomach but rarely, if ever, occurs, except as the result of irritants directly applied to it. The cases ■ related by Andral give proof, however, of its existence as an idiopathic affection, or as the sequel of rheumatism, or of epidemic i cholera. We quote the account he gives of the morbid changes. In case 1, the stomach was strongly contracted, so as to be nearly- the size of the transverse colon: “ Its inner surface, over nearly its entire extent, was of a brownish red. This colour had its exclusive seat in the mucous membrane, which had become m every part very thick, and was at the same time very friable. On its free surface there were discovered a multitude of small red or blackish points, which seemed to have their principal seat in the-, villi- however, beneath these the body of the mucous membrane^ was ’red, and, as it were, penetrated with blood; mmo part coma this membrane be detached, it gave way under the forceps, and m: several points it resembled a pulp without any consistence. Aear the pylorus, the mucous membrane resumed its normal consistence, and was of a greyish colour. In case 2, also, the stomach was strongly contracted. Its mucous membrane was of a dark red colour over the entire surface of the great cul-de-sac, and over all the posterior surface from the cardia to the pylorus. This rednes, penetrated the entire substance of the membrane, which had lost- its consistence in every part where it was red; in some points it s0rt of pulp. Towards the anterior surface the mucous membrane presented a date-coloured tint, without its “onsisten” being much changed: near the pylorus some mam- millation was observed. The surface was d threadv mucus. In another case, also idmpathic, the panetes on the stomach were remarkably softened: “ °ver ail the e por^ of this viscus, its tunics, from the peritoneal to>tte.mucous, to no longer any consistence; they gave way under the as, sort of pulp ' Wherever this softening existed, the panetes o stomaeff were of a dark red colour and u it worn Near the pylorus the panetes of the stomach i . ^ving oii consistence,” and were of a greyish tmt dlf an gastritis, consecutive to a malignant cholera, 1 • pcned • early period of the disease, the mucous membrane red andIsoJ- * ; «t a later period it was sometimes in the same condition, somehme- brown or slate-coloured, and its tissue thickened am In an excellent instance of intense hyperaemia of the stomacn