753 UTERUS DURING MENSTRUATION. the stretched uterine walls by an accumulation of contained fluid, are also occasionally met with. Hypertrophy is more commonly met with as a morbid state than atrophy; partly as an exaggerated expression of the normal con- dition, at certain periods of life, partly as the result of irritation set up by other morbid processes. These may consist in tumours, occupying the substance, or filling the cavity of the uterus ; giving rise, eventually, to actual expulsive efforts, resembling labour pains, or to blennorrhceic affections of the mucous surfaces. The cervix is liable to be hypertrophied by itself; the labia may form a single tumefied ring, or present two tumours, lying parallel to one another, and separated by a transverse fissure. The first form is more likely to occur in women who have not borne children, and the second in those who have. The anterior is more frequently enlarged than the posterior lip. In the hypertrophy resultin''' from defective involution after delivery, the whole organ is involved, but seldom to any considerable extent, though the changes affecting the cervical portion are, of course, more apt to attract attention. Ihe cavity of the uterus may be morbidly diminished in conse- quence of inflammatory affections of the surrounding textures, or by malposition or curvation, and may amount to complete oblitera- tion. An instance of obliteration of the cavity of the uterus is preserved in the St. George’s Hospital Museum (Dr. Lee’s Prepara- tions, No. 161), in which the cervix remained patulous. ~SS e shall have occasion to see that the os and the cavity of the uterus are frequently plugged up by secretions, but this must not be confounded with, actual adhesion of the parietes. Strictures are commonly met with at the external and internal orifices of the cervix; they appear to be mainly due to inflammation of the mucous and submucous tissues of the parts. UTERUS DURING MENSTRUATION. The uterus swells considerably from the flow of blood which takes place at this time to the genital organs; its muscular sub- stance becomes more succulent and looser in texture, the mucous membrane thicker, and shows a dark-red bleeding surface while the parenchyma is often spotted with red from minute ecchymoses Ihe uterine glands of the fundus and body of the organ become lengthened, corresponding with the increase in thickness of the mucous membrane, so that the latter appears quite fibrous on section Ihe ciliated epithelium of the mucous membrane falls off at the beginning of the menstrual htemorrhage, and a proliferation ot epithelial cells which resemble those of the Malpighian layer begins. This-.proliferation continues through the whole of the menstrual period, till at its close the formation of ciliated epi- 3 c