489 CHRONIC PNEUMONIA. ■ fact, one of the terminations of embolic infarction. We do not know why gangrene is not a more frequent result of this affection ; but it appears only to occur when the infarcted portion is con- • - siderable in size, and may perhaps be connected with simultaneous obstruction of the bronchial artery. CHRONIC PNEUMONIA. The existence of chronic pneumonia has been disputed by some authors ; but both at the bedside, as well as in the dead-house, we nuci cases to which no other name can be given, though, in the present state of our knowledge, it is often difficult to define the exact limits of the acute and chronic forms. Another difficulty which has yet to be removed, in regard to this subject is, to deter- rnrne whether chrome pneumonia is essentially different from the destructive pneumonia which we shall describe among the forms o p thisis, and it so, whether there are any marked characters by Vhe uead b°dy-’ There we only have to consider it at present, it can be recognized. dw^]iei^efifeat!U’e ? c^r°nic pneumonia, which we find equally S!P , by alm1f a11 observers, is the hypertrophy of the mter- fom, Iff h • Rokltanlky’ 111 contradistinction to his croupous seranCfformUwEmE’RglVeS tb? Dam° of .interstitial pneumonia to a Xr nVfWi’ bliCb bG/e?ait as ldentical with the chronic form of XiW t l0?1ii ’ as ^or mstance, Andral and Hasse. Rokitansky lobuiX S6 ,laflammatlon a8 commencing between the pulmonary hvnertronV. bf ralle1' gr°UpS of air ceUs- and originating in S £Xd°L pe Connectlve .tls;sue; A similar condition was oeen Xcd filby-?Tgan a!.clrrhosis of the lung, and has also Knnim di.fi, '°ld- degeneration, or induration. The lung is s scon “X diminished in size, and the corresponding contraction s seen m the external wall of the chest. The pleura is o.reatlv ibro.^^bandV11'6^110 ^rlolbar and interlobular septa, so that thick larttnentri J t-ersect-tbe and dlvide R into irregular com- ’ularitv nni T <lr!°l1H size. I he surface shows corresponding irre- ir&s fv Ln° U f- ap?eaf “ce, which suggested the name of a tE LI rtaln Slm?lanty to the appearance of the liver olour iTh° Parenchyma of the lung is of a dark grey ubes are diXClh pig,ment’ and 18 itself indurated. The bronchial nrfarf dlla,ted’ aud sometimes cavities, with smooth internal ace, are formed partly, or wholly, by the enlarged . !,liril,<;'l) ll"K;Ua often very offensive and gangrenous' o hx ‘srn1Iy ‘f°ct8 r ‘“v-'y. »»<i iagesof* tw b"V“ *P,Ph<» to the most advanced