CIRRHOSIS OR THE LITER. 62o cases, is certainly the habit of spirit-drinking: the alcohol absorbed into the portal blood first passes through the liver, and very probably exerts some action on its tissue. This suggests the idea of the spirit acting as a local irritant, and with this Dr Percy’s observation of the greater affinity of alcohol for the liver than for other organs in animals poisoned by it seems to harmonize. Obstructive cardiac disease is probably not a direct cause of cirrhosis in any of its forms or degrees, hut certainly must be a predisposing one. Congestion favours the occurrence both of inflammation and of degeneration. Both the heart disease (e q constriction of the mitral orifice), and the cirrhotic change in the fiver, are sometimes, perhaps, common results of the same con- dition of the blood, or of some general constitutional tendency. There are, no doubt, other exciting causes besides the ingestion of alcoho , but they can scarcely be particularized. We have seen ' Weal cirrhosis m a child three years old, where spirit drinking- i was out of the question. One form of syphilitic disease of the liver much resembles cirrhosis; but some cases are, no doubt i unexplained. ’ Consequences of Cirrhosis.—'The obstruction to the blood current muv?iPOrtf,1 TOm causes congestion of the whole portal system with the following consequences (1) Swelling of the spleen (not , invariably); (2) Eflusion of serum into the peritoneal cavity, or * ’ (3)- Catarrh of the stomach, and sometimes hiemorrhage • [4) Congestion of the mucous surface of the intestines, sometimes ?Producing diarrhoea; (5) Enlargement of collateral venous channels. Ultimately secondary congestion of the systemic venous system -may ensue, producing anasarca of the legs and general dropsy. ihe spleen albeit exposed to the backward pressure of the blood retarded m the splenic vein, does not always become dis- •tended in the way that one would expect, but is often, on the ■contrary, sometimes; small and soft. Frerichs found enlargement of the spleen in half his cases. We have found it enlarged in -nearly all Ascites is, perhaps, the most constant phenomenon, ut may be wanting if the collateral venous channels are abun- aani. Jaundice, it should be remembered, rarely occurs, and the rw/ t,houf^alw7ay.s ^gh"floured, does not contain bile pigment, Collateral Circulation.—All or most of these consequences may he !^°r 1 tUfe’b/ a™,rted> id collateral venous channels o greatly developed. There are, beside the umbilical vein and its attendant veins already mentioned, the following plexuses -hi - f h0emorrhoidffi plexus, forming a communication between n and lnternal lUac veins, and other plexuses -n the peh is which have a similar double connection. (2) Several groups of minute veins running in the ligaments of the liver, dis- -ngmshed by feappey in five groups: fa) in the gastro-hepatic '.n surrounding the gall-bladder and entering the liver n each sidei; (c) running in the walls of the portal vein hepatic rtery, and bile duct; (cl) running in the suspensory ligament