MORBUS BRiai!TII. t'C'2 capsular surface. The mucous membrane of the ealy< < s and pelvis is somewhat swollen and reddened. The consistence of the kidney is rather diminislied.it is rather flabby and soft. The above description applies to many instances of an early degenerative condition, 1 ut there are many others also, in an early stage, which differ in Fro. 1ST. \. Cortical tubes, containing a wry fatty epithelium. b. A short homogeneous oast, containing two corpuscles. c. Fortion of a mtxiullaiy tube, containing three oasts, looking much like cysts anJ oOy matter. The three figures (156 to tSSt are intended to illustrate the changes observed iu the enlarged form of degenaried kidney. several respects. The size of the organ may not be materially increased, though its structure is evidently altered : its consistence may be dense, firm, and brittle, instead of soft and flabby; it# capsule may be firmly adherent, and its colour more approaching the natural.’ Cysts are sometimes observable ou the surface of the orsran. but this is uo necessary part of the morbid change. Histology of Tubular Xrphntis.—The epithelium lining the cor- tical tubuii is increased in bulk; sometimes its particles are more completely formed than usual, and appear more distinct and separate; sometimes their sine is greatly exaggerated, so that a few particles cohering together form a large bulky mass: some- times the tube is filled with a mflangt of stunted or withered-look- ing nuclei, granular matter, and ill-formed colloid particles. The central channel of the tube, which should, normally, be about one- third or one-fourth the whole diameter, is much encroached on and even obstructed by this accumulation of epithelium; from the same cause the tube becomes dilated, and hence the bulk of the organ is increased. Cylinders of fibrine, or hyaline matter, also are present in some of the tubes, but not in the great majority, and doubtless aid in increasing the obstruction. The base- ment membrane of the tube, "in some eases, is natural, in some, is decidedly atrophied, and scarcely can bo detected. A condition of the epithelium is sometimes observed which is extremely significant, wo think, of the nature of the morbid pro-