227 EVFLAMMATIOX OF THE DURA MATER, PACHYMENINGITIS. This may be either acute or chronic; and there are very distinct forms of the acute disease. The first form affects the external lifayer of the dura mater, or that corresponding to the periosteum, land presents the features of inflammatory action in periosteal ■coverings generally; it is never of a very active character, and soever becomes universal, while in many instances of contiguous ^'inflammation the membrane seems to act as a barrier to intercept ' ts progress. In the first stage the membrane presents a pinky .aue, which is irregularly diffused, and evidently has but little ■Tendency to spread. The injection causes the dura mater to assume 11 more lax and pulpy condition, and it is more readily detached rrom the adjacent parts. A stage of infiltration and suppuration, or •of effusion of lymph, may follow; the latter is the more frequent result of idiopathic inflammation of the dura mater, and may give ifise to induration, firm adhesion, thickening, or to new formations, such as the production of bone. In fibrous tissues generally the •Tendency to lymphatic effusion is rather on the surface, causing an attachment to adjacent parts, whether bone or muscle; in the i him mater, however, interstitial effusion is more frequently met vith, on which account the latter is more likely to show the traces :>f inflammatory action than aponeurotic or fascial expansions. When apparent adhesions occur between the dura mater and the rraehnoid, which are not unfrequent, they are rather the effect of nflammatory action and deposition of lymph on the latter than on he former. In such a case the removal of the dura mater cannot >e effected without laceration of the arachnoid, or the subjacent f^ey matter, or connecting bands or shreds are found to be drawn ut as the membranes are separated. This form of inflammation is he consequence of some disease, or, more frequently, injury of the ranial bones. Thus it occurs in wounds and fractures of the skull; nd from the contiguity of the dura mater to the skull it is very .able to be implicated in external injuries, which may assume the character of the injury to the bone, being cut, punctured, or rui.-iod; or we occasionally meet with laceration of the dura mater mm concussion at a distance from the point at which the force /as applied. The same causes that give rise to haemorrhage ‘etweeu the periosteum and bone elsewhere frequently induce xtravasation between the dura mater and the inner table of the rull; but they are all of a mechanical nature. Another frequent cause is inflammation occurring in the internal uditory passages and the cells of the mastoid process. This form i not only secondary, but also of a dyscrasic character; it is met ith chiefly in childhood and in scrofulous individuals. The disease lay be initiated in the mucous membrane or the bone ; and as the lorbid process extends towards the cavity of the cranium effusion of j /inpk or pus takes place under the dura mater, and the brain itself