564 INFLAMMATION OF TXIE ST011ACH. corium. (5) A fatty state is very commonly met with, and in two forms, one in which the epithelium is bulky and the tissue healthy, or nearly so; the other, where the epithelium is atro- phied, in consequence, generally, of pressure by new-formed 1 fibroid tissue upon the tubes. (6) The tubes in the' pyloric region are often found changed in the following manner: the j continuous row of tubes is interrupted, and there are seen at ; intervals instead groups of convolutions containing a fatty wasted epithelium, and not possessing any manifest outlet on . the surface. We think that inflammation is not the most essen- tial moment in these changes. The nuclear masses, when not' of large size, may be regarded as identical with the naturally existing solitary glands. _ . ... Croupy Inflammation resulting m so-c&iIgu. fibrinous gx ii elution, which forms a false membrane, sometimes of regular areolar sur- face, is very rarely seen, at least in England, and is said by Rokitansky to be a “ sequela or degeneration of exanthematic processes, as of variola, typhus, pysemia, and particularly' puerperal phlebitis. Sometimes inflammation of a low erysipe- latous kind attacks the submucous connective tissue of the stomach,) and occasions suppuration. The pus, after a time, escapes by numerous irregular cribriform openings into the cavity ot thei V1SCUS. ” • Corrosive Poisons.—We proceed to notice the effects of causfic fluids such as the mineral acids, which have been swallowed. The mucus in the mouth and fauces is coagulated into flocculent masses, the epithelium is detached here and there, and ‘‘converted mm a thick greyish-white, rugose layer,” and the subjacent mucous mem- brane is pale. If the caustic fluid has penetrated more deeply, « the superficial layers of the mucous membrane of the fauces and oesophagus are found congested, of a dirty, whitish, leaden hue, and the capillary network blackened by its carbonized contents. The lower strata of the mucous membrane, and the submucous cellular tissue, present serous infiltration. In the follicles ai a , i i 4-T. ~ can tlie liar uBsue, poouuu — . i a * root of the tongue, the mucous secretion is coagulatec 1,1 m j_it — c into dirty white masses.' In a still higher degree of corrosm action, the entire mucous membrane is destroyed, and conveitec into a duty grey mass, which is traversed by black vessels, submucous cellular tissue is infiltrated, and parbaUy ecchymose the muscular coat of the oesophagus itself is shrivelled, pale a*h> In the highest degree, the mucous membrane of the msoph.^u- together with the submucous cellular tissue, is converted m a soft, black mass, which is distended by a sangmnolent flmd, an is easily detached from the muscular coat. The hitter is ike. either destroyed in the same manner, or is perfectly^ouiiBse friable, and presents an ashy, gelatinous appearance, membrane of the stomach,” m consequence of being longer in co tact with the corrosive substance, “ almost mvanab y sui i changes of the last degree but one, though in varying exu