ENDOCAKDITIS. 350 blood-poisoning,* and there is no doubt that the latter is sometimes tbe ca«e,t true suppuration of the valves being found. Other results of endocarditis are thickening and induration. Sometimes the whole inner membrane of one or more ^itmg jg white and opaque, a phenomenon which is set down to chronic inflammation. In other cases limited pat<*es J^umbon and thickenin'* are seen, about which it may be doubtful vhcthei the} are evidence of a chronic change, or an acute process which happened some time previously. Eokitansky describes white Hatches under the name of tendinous spots, as a sort of cicatrices resulting from inflammation of the endocardium and adjacent parts ofSthe muscular tissue. These patches are often seen in the unoer part of the wall of the left ventricle, near the aortic valves, and especially in cases of aortic regurgitation They are eome- times membranous and not unlike valves It has been thought tint friction of the regurgitant stream of blood might have some- thin o- to do with their causation, but the explanation is plainly inadequate. Their production appears to depend upon two oxcum- ,L ^ . n i. n o-eneral chronic inflammation by which tne “o.fbtoTsZ&mSl and partly detached from the snb- inner coar ueoonie m0Veable upon it; and secondly, upon the lotion of the regurgitant stream of blood looselv attached membrane into ripples or folds, which hnaUy become rigid and thus form membranous expansions or fibrous ridges. These surfaces are sometimes shaggy or covered with '•fiSiS' aTheart is also a ,-esult of endocarditis, though nerhans not unless the muscular substance participate m the S&Sa. It may be partial, producing a cardrac «» « a general, in distant parts of the arterial system, rcjth l^paS^the O. »f .be ** tight then on the left side. . , . j7nnrt A frequent concomitant Coagulation of Blood vn i '. ,coagUlation, during of endocarditis, according o oi'inn'inthe clot of now blood- life, of the blood, and tbe organization, in the clot, oi - ‘‘Trans. Pa&^oc.,”vi.tWB, p.151 ^ p. 76, records two such cases. t SS ou Kwhousw.