661 abnormal conditions of the thymus. hydatid; in one there was coagulated, in another fluid blood, on this side was a loculus full of glutinous matter, on that was one filled with calcareous matter mingled with tallow.” One of the cystic cavities sometimes enlarges prodigiously at the expense of the others ; Andral relates having found a thyroid transformed into a cyst with bony walls filled with a honey-like matter. _ Another kind of enlargement of the thyroid consists in the dilata- tion of its vessels, constituting what is called vascular or aneurismatic bronchocele; though, according to Forster, this term has been applied to ordinary bronchocele when very vascular. The veins in particu- lar, writes Hasse, form very dense, capacious, often knotted plex- uses, and the whole texture consists, apparently, of a dense coil of vessels. The substance of the gland has almost entirely lost its granular character—it is flabby and dark-red. After death, the tumour collapses considerably. The walls of the arteries and veins are attenuated ; the dilated membranes of the vessels contain con- siderable clots, and capacious cavities are found filled with black coagulated blood. In a remarkable specimen which seemed in part to belong to the above class, we found the greatly dilated vessels completely coated with oily matter, so as in some parts to appear like white cylinders by direct light. At the same time the glandular vesicles were destroyed, and only some traces of their epithelium could be discovered; a most important feature of the alteration, which is not mentioned by Hasse in the above descrip- tion, though it seems inferable, from his statement, that the granular (vesicular) character of the gland is almost entirely lost. New Growths, Tubercle is very rarely found in the thyroid* a case is, however, figured by MM. Cornil and Eanvier. Cancer is also very uncommon, but when it does occur is more often primary than secondary. The growth usually affects part only of the organ, and owing to its situation may cause death bv compression of the trachea, or may ulcerate into the air passages or oesophagus. Probably for this reason the disease has, in the ffew cases recorded, generally remained confined to this organ, and not become distributed over the body. In a case observed by the edum®dullary cancer arose somewhat rapidly in a thyroid which had for many years been affected with ordinary broncho- cele ; and it appears, from instances quoted by Virchow, that this has been the case in several of the few recorded cases of thvroid cancer. J ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE THYMUS. Absence of the thymus in infants has only been observed in cases oi acephabsm. Inflammation is an exceedingly rare occurrence ■ out Hasse refers to two cases, m one of which an abscess is said to •ii*p.63an9':Path'8oC‘’” vol-xjdi- p- m Virchow, “ Krankh. GeschwUlste,” vol.