168 Fig. 33. VARIETIES OF SARCOMA. Spindle-celled Sarcoma, Recurrent Fibroid Tumour, Fibro-plasUc Tumour ; Fibro-nucleated Tumour.—This is the commonest and best known form of sarcoma. It consists mainly of cells which, being elongated and tapering to each end, have been thought to show a transitional form between cells and fibres. Sometimes one or both ends are prolonged into two points instead of one. Similar cells are found in granulations which are on the way to form fibrous tissue, and in scars formed without granulations. The cells and nuclei have in general the characters de- scribed above; they vaiy very much as to size in different specimens, though within the same tumour there will be considerable uniformity; oval and round cells are almost al- ways found associated with them. They are frequently ar- ranged side by side in bundles, (as in Pig. 33) whence the name of carcinoma fasciadatum ap- plied by Muller and Bokitansky to some tumours of this class. When such bundles, crossing one another at various angles, are cut in a fine section, the appear- ance of loculi or spaces may be produced, but there is not any true locular arrangement in sarcoma as here defined. These tumours arise most fre- quently from fibrous structures, as periosteum, fascia, muscular septa, &c., but are also found in glands, in the eye and other parts. They are often hardly distinguishable by the naked eye from fibrous tumours, but in other cases are translucent and soft, seldom opaque and “medullary” in appearance. Though mostly small they may attain the size of a man's head. Clinical character.—Tumours of this group may often be com- pletely and finally removed by operation, and produce no general affection of the constitution: but very often a new grow i a ves place at the seat of operation, and the tumour may in this way Section of spindle-celled sarcoma from the membranes of the spinal cord; partly teased out. The left hand of the figure shows the fasciculate arrangement of the spindle- cells. On the right hand they have been separated from one another, to show their tapering prolongations and large nuclei. (After Virchow, Die Kranlc. Geschw. vol. ii. p. 197.)