852 EXOSTOSES. Fig. 193. exostoses ; they aro also seen in the long bones, and in the pelvis where they may prove an obstacle to parturition. The micro- scopic appearances are described by Rokitan- sky as exhibiting a very considerable num- ber of peripheral lamelhe, in which long corpuscles are observed. The Haversian canals are small, and far apart, many of them being surrounded by a distinct and isolated system of lamellse; large tracts present no corpuscles, while at other spots they are clustered together in dense groups. No other tissue is discoverable in the ivory exostosis. Spongy exostoses differ from the compact variety, in being composed of cancelli, con- taining medullary matter, and surrounded by a shell of bone ; they vaiy much more in size and outline than the former ; they spring from the cancellous or compact tissue of the bone, and their surface is continuous with that of the latter. In some cases themedul- lary cavity of the bone is immediately con- tinuous with that of the exostosis, so that this resembles a diverticulum. In other cases it is separated by a layer of compact bone, as was the case in an instance which was exhibited at the Pathological Society of London,* in 1850, and which was remark- able both on account of its size, and because the base and pedicle were compact, while the remainder was cancellous. The spongy exostosis occurs at all periods of life—when it has attained a certain size it generally remains permanent. Rokitansky describes a process of condensation alternating with one of rarefaction ; it is by the latter that he considers the growth of the spongy exostosis outwards to be chiefly affected. This form of exostosis is sometimes mul- tiple, forming on many bones at once, as if from some constitutional cause. In a case observed by the Editor, spongy growths were found on every bone of the body except the skull, sternum, and the hands and feet; and in most at two spots, i.e., at each extremity of tho shaft of the long bones and of the ribs. They were quite unconnected with the epiphysis or with the cartilage.t Spongy exostosis on the femur, -with a broad base and pointed processes di- rected downwards ; the section shows a cancel- lous structure, surrounded by a shell of compact bone. The walls of the femur and the medullai y cavity, in the situation of the exostosis, are per- fectly sound. (St. Bartholomew’s Mu- seum, i. 186.) * Report for 1850-51, p. 140. + “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. p. 208. A similar ease in Virchow, “ Krankhaffce Geschwulste,” vol. ii. p. 83.