ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE OVARIES. 771 stancos to show that scars may entirely disappear. In the ovaries of older persons the scars become very numerous, and the whole ovary acquires a wrinkled appearance; and there is at the same time wasting of the organ. This wasted and shrivelled appearance must not be regarded as morbid. If death take place during menstruation, the ovary is found turgid and vascular, injected on its surface; and showing the changes due to ovulation, now to be described. Corpus Lute urn.—It is necessary to be acquainted with the ordinary form of the scar left by a ruptured Graafian follicle, both when it is followed and when it is not followed by im- pregnation. In the latter case, when ovulation has just taken place, a cavity is found, some three-eighths of an inch in diameter, containing blood, fluid or coagulated. A variable quantity escapes through the rupture in the follicle, but some remains, and from this, with a growth from the follicular walls, the corpus luteum is formed. The blood goes through the changes already indicated, it becomes decolorized, probably softens into a pulp, and ultimately nothing may remain but some fibrous material, blood crystals, and pigment granules. The follicular wall simultaneously goes through changes of a proliferative kind, and forms a yellow or brownish zone, some half a line thick, often with a crenulated outline. This undergoes rapid fatty degeneration, and is ultimately absorbed with the remains of the blood, so that nothing remains but a whitish scar, with some pigmentation. This process of evolution may be nearly complete within the month. If impregnation follow, the active flow of blood to the uterine organs causes the proliferative process to be much more energetic. A yellow zone, some three lines broad, is formed, so deeply folded or crenated as to have been compared to a leaf; within which is the altered blood clot, surrounded on all sides, except at the ruptured orifice. The whole may, at the maximum, measure eleven lines in diameter, and, even at the end of pregnancy, from three to six lines. The process of evolution is accordingly’by no means complete, even after nine months. Abnormal Evolution.—Sometimes a subsequent or secondary haemorrhage takes place into the corpus luteum. Sometimes a sort ■ of cyst is formed. Eokitansky has described the formation of the ■ species of fibrous tumour from the scar, and in one case it has 1 formed the starting point of cancer. A papillary growth from the corpus luteum, projecting as a dendritic protrusion through the ) rent in the follicle, has also been observed. Hcemorrharjc. —The normal escape of blood from ovulation mav . be excessive, and the Graafian follicle may be distended to the size of a nut, a hen’s egg, or even more. If the excess of blood flow into the peritoneum, it produces one form of Retrouterine Ucematocele, or accumulation of blood in Douglas’s pouch- but Ahis maybe derived from other sources. Sometimes, in youn- -girls, the haemorrhage may produce laceration of the substance of