99 SUPPURATION. Corpuscles of Pus.—The sediment consists almost entirely of small organized bodies, the well-known pus-corpuscles, or pus- cells. These are, when dead, of spherical form, about inch in diameter, formed of a mass of soft granulous substance, en- closing a varying number of nuclei, about inch in diameter. These are, in well-formed pus cells, for the most part con- cealed by the surrounding substance; but in some cells, even of healthy pus, and in all those of pus of an inferior kind, they are easily perceptible, even without the aid of acetic acid. Occasionally a single nucleus exists; but more commonly it is made up of two, three, four, or even five large granules. The single nuclei are always the largest, and it is generally held that the multiple nuclei are formed by a process of division from the single nucleus. When seen in the living state the form of pus-corpuscles is eminently variable; they show the amoeboid movements and changes of form characteristic of masses of living protoplasm, and may be seen continually to push out and retract prolongations of their substance. Molecular movements may also be seen in their interior, like those in salivary corpuscles. The amoeboid movements are said by Recklinghausen to be the more active, the more recent and severe the inflammation. They : may be seen m pus from granulating surfaces, from inflamed mucous membranes, pustules, &c., if it be slightly diluted with a hall per cent, solution of sodium chloride, or better, with • fomenatural serous fluid. The movements are stopped by concen- trated saline solutions, by water, and by the pressure of a cover , glass, or instantly by exposure to a high temperature. They I gradually cease in a cold atmosphere, but may, up to a certain time, be restored by heat. Most cells, from large collections of pus, are, however, already dead, and show no spontaneous move- ments. ihey often show also a sort of envelope or cell wall, ormed by coagulation of the protoplasm, but a' single pus-cell F/rSa8 r »UG’ be distinguished from a lymph or white blood-cell. Mec\ of Reagents on the Corpuscles.-When already dead and |ho Pus globule is not very remarkably affected by !nh»°-P i d ? ''’ater- I* becomes somewhat swollen, and more W t i! nucleus becomes somewhat more apparent, bnL T m destroyed and burst so rapidly as the blood glo- bule. In blood, urine mucus, saliva, it is unaltered. Acetic aud renders the granu ous contents translucent, and brings out he nucleus more definitely. It renders the envelope alsfmoie transparent but does not destroy it. Other dilute acids have a similar effect. Caustic and carbonated alkalies, and borax convert the whole corpuscle into a viscid mass, leaving only very minute daik molecules, whose import is uncertain. Pus, Dr. Walshe savs JJeSra remarkable power of resisting decomposition. At the end of months some corpuscles may still bo found unchanged among others that are dissolved. It oven retards the putrefaction of substances which are placed in it; but at tho same time seems