795 PUERPERAL FEVER, OR PYJEMIA. effusion of an aplastic character; the abdomen then contains from a few ounces to several quarts of serum, of a dirty-yellow, green- ish, or brownish hire, in which flocculent particles of lymph are floating, while hut small patches of a thin non-coherent exudation are observed on the peritoneal sac. The smell of the fluid is also distinctive ; it will be recognized when once noticed, as it differs from anything met with in the human body, in health or disease. The fluid is described by the older authors as of a creamy character, hence the long-prevailing fallacy that it was connected with an actual metastasis of milk, which was in a measure supported by the failing supply of the mammary secretion observed as one of the first symptoms of the disease. The serum contains a comparatively small portion of albumen, offers an acid reaction, and is said to possess a very salt taste. Causes of Puerperal Peritonitis.—This is in most cases the con- sequence of the entrance of inflaming matter from the adjacent organs. This may come directly through the Fallopian tubes; or indirectly by the lymphatics. Dr. Barnes suggests that there may be an actual transudation of liquid through the walls of the uterus, in consequence of the great tension to which they are subject in parturition. In some cases direct propagation from the serous covering of the uterus must be assumed. It is doubtful whether peritonitis occurs, in the puerperal state, with a perfectly normal state of the uterine organs. It may occur as a simple peritonitis, without any further symptoms of puerperal fever; or may be one of the manifestations of this disease. PUERPERAL FEVER, OR PYiEMIA. The affections described above need not all be regarded as parts of any general disease. The uterine organs, like others which have been exposed to strain and injury, are very likely to become inflamed. In the same way inflammation may be set up in the peritoneum, as it is by hernia or obstructed bowel. But in the special diseases connected with the puerperal state a certain order and connection of the morbid conditions is seen, which maktes the process strictly analogous to pyaemia. Some inflammation or specific morbid process, affecting the uterine organs, is the primary or local disease which, distributed by means of the veins or lymphatics, produces secondary or general infection. The order appears to be as follows. Endometritis is usually the primary process, and is often com- bined with metritis. On this follow most frequently lymphatic affections, lymphatic thrombosis, lymphangitis, or lymphadenitis. These are the sequelae most frequently seen in puerperal epidemics,' and may be compared to surgical erysipelas, or diffuse cellulitis!