CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 92 inflammations. Tho products of inflammation are not absorbed so complete^ as in normal inflammations, and thus produce tbe cheesy masses often called scrofulous matter; but this is seen also in other inflammations. Tho changes, inflammatory and other- wise, which accompany (either as cause or effect) the presence of tubercles, have the same general character as those originally called scrofulous. To sum up the views of Virchow (which we have followed), scrofulous inflammations are distinguished by their physiological character, as being easily aroused, obstinate, and destructive; by their anatomical relations, being often connected with the lymphatic system; and by the tendency to generate per- sistent masses of cheesy or degenerated matter. CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. We have already alluded to the causes of inflammation in the foregoing remarks, and shall now do little more than briefly enumerate them. Predisposing causes are almost always debili- tating influences; a strong part is less liable to inflame tnan a weak one—a previous attack of inflammation especially renders a part more prone to undergo a second. Certain unhealthy con- ditions of the blood (of which that induced by foul air is one) predispose the system to inflammation from trifling causes, which would pass inoperative in a sound state. Exciting causes are either such as act on the part directly which they inflame, or indirectly through the medium of another._ Direct Causes.— These may be mechanical irritants, such as a splin- ter in the flesh ; or chemical, as a strong acid, or acrid salt ;■or vital, such as mustard, &c., whose operation only affects living structures. It is remarkable that the urinary and biliary secretions which excite only healthy action in the mucous surface oyer which they naturally flow, and which, or at least some of their constituents, produce no particular injurious effects when absorbed mto the blood, act as the most violent and fatal irritants upon serous mem- branes, and the areolar tissue, when effused into them. Tins shows clearly the important part played by the tissues themselves in the process of inflammation: that which is a healthy stimulant to one texture is the cause of destructive inflammation to another. The production of local inflammations from the presence ot some substance in the general mass of blood for seem to have a special affinity, has a ready been notice l but we may add, that it is in these cases that we observe the liitere-tin phenomena of symmetrical disease;* the corresponding parts of the two lateral halves of the body being affected almost to the exclusion of others. Here, again, we have evidence of the pre- dominant influence of the tissues; the parts which are exact y • For a most interesting exposition of the subject of symmetrical diseases, we refer to Mr. Puget’s Lectures for 1847.