859 OSTEOID TUMOUR. The “ osteoid tumour” of Muller has been thought to constitute a transition between the simple bony tumours and the malignant affections of bone. Muller describes it thusThe osteoid tumour is irregularly lobulated, and is developed with moieorless lapidity from lie surface of a bone, and consists mainly of osseous tissue, in the interstices of which a non-ossified substance is found of the consistency of fibro-cartilage, which also forms the coveung of these growths; the bony matter is more or less porous, and. pre- sents all the characters of true bone, while the other constituent offers a greyish white colour, is somewhat vascular, and of firm consistency and difficult to tear. The microscope displays m it a dense fibrous network, with minute interstices containing but few cells and nuclei; it is not cartilaginous in structure or chemical composition, containing neither gelatine nor chondrine. The tumours thus described are doubtless in part ossifying sar- comata of different species, but one distinct and characteristic form of tissue is found in some of them ; that is the osteoid tissue ot Virchow, which is more like an imperfect form of cartilage than bone or sarcomatous tissue. Tumours composed of this substance are very rare; we must refer to Virchow* and to the works of Rindfleisch, and Oornil and Ranvier for fuller accounts. These growths are among the tumours called osteoid cancers by Sir J. Paget. CANCER OF BONE. The occurrence of primary cancer of bone is, whatever definition of cancer we adopt, rare; but taking it in the sense formerly defined, rarer even than the descriptions of surgeons would lead one to suppose, since most of the tumours thus named from clini- cal characters would, according to the definition here adopted, come under the head of sarcoma, especially of the round-celled or medullary form. As it is impossible, in the standard descriptions of bone cancer, to separate the carcinomatous from the sarcomatous forms, the general assertions made respecting the growth and other features of cancer must be taken to apply equally both to soft rapidly-growing forms of sarcoma, and to medullary carcinoma in the strict sense. Epithelial Oriyin of Cancer.—Another difficulty must be faced before we can admit the existence of true primary carcinoma of bone. In most of the recent German publications on morbid growths, it will be found that the name cancer is confined to tumours • “ Krankh. Geschwulste,” vol. ii. p. 292, et seq.