CAUSES OF EUEMOEEHAGE. 70 the effusion. This cause is evidently influential in renal dropsy, in 'which a constant drain of albuminous serum out of the blood is taking place. It is remarkable that this may have been going on for some, perhaps a considerable time, and yet no dropsy occur. The explanation of this is afforded by the circumstance ascertained by Simon and Ohristison, that the decrease of the solid consti- tuents of the serum is not always the leading character in this disease. In three of Simon’s analyses out of four of blood in Bright’s disease, the quantity of albumen was decidedly increased —in one instance amounting to 109-4, considerably above the average of health. Cases of dropsy occasionally are met with, in which, as there appears no absolute organic disease, but only an hydrsemic condition of the blood, one is obliged to conclude that the effusion is dependent on this. Andral mentions that during a famine, where the poorer classes had been obliged to seek a scanty nourishment in roots and herbs growing in the fields, many persons became dropsical. This has not always been observed in famines ; but a curious observation of Briieke’s bears upon this point. He confined a frog, having the sciatic nerve of one leg divided, in a glass vessel for some months. When the frog was insufficiently fed oedema occurred in the leg of which the nerve was divided; abundant animal food removed the oedema, which reappeared when the animal was again starved. The occurrence of oedema, in the affected leg only, illustrates the effect of the abolition of nervous influence in causing local dropsy; the same thing is sometimes, though rarely, observed in infantile paralysis. Dr. Laycock has repeatedly drawn attention to similar facts. In these instances, it is very probable that the proportion of albumen in the blood was diminished, as it is clear that the supply of it ordinarily derived from the food was so. When, from cardiac or renal causes, oi both combined, together with altered crasis of the blood, the tendency to dropsical effusion is very strong, it is quite remarkable how universal the dropsy becomes, the perito- neum, both pleurm, and the pericardium, may be found full of fluid, the areolar texture everywhere infiltrated, the air-cells of the lungs loaded with frothy serum, the tissue of the brain “ wet,” and the subarachnoid fluid considerably increased.. In fact, it seems as if the vessels no longer presented any containing barrier, but per- mitted the escape of fluid in every part that it traversed. It is often observable in these cases, after death, how the naturallv transparent serous membranes have lost this appearance, they loox thickened, of a dull whity grey tint, as it were sodden in the fluid. There can be no doubt that this depends on a chronic thickening and increase of their fibrous layer. Composition of Dropsical Effusions.—This generally approaches more or less closely to that of the serum of the blood. The purer fluids are clear, tolerably limpid, and colourless; often, however, a marked yellow tint is observed, which may either arise irorn dissolved hsematine or from the presence of an increased quantity