INFLAMMATION OF THE PERITONEUM. 555 with fibrinous flakes, as happens also in limited empyema or in • softening of the brain. The intestines are very commonly distended by gas in acute peri- tonitis, which has been thought to be secreted by the mucous membrane under the influence of irritation, but is possibly derived from decomposition of the intestinal contents (p. 72). At the - same time there is reason to believe that the action of the muscular fibres is more or less interfered with, if they are not actually para- i Ijzed, and hence the distension being unopposed is greater than it otherwise would be. Kokitansky says that “haemorrhagic exuda- • tion is frequently seen on the peritoneum; it forms large, satu- rated coagula, disposed in thick layers.” Chronic peritonitis of a simple kind is not of common occur- - rence; a case is, however, recorded by Andral in which serum turbid with albuminous flocculi was found in the serous cavity after death, while ascitic effusion had existed for more than the ast month of life, unattended with pain or any evident symptom 1 of inflammatory action. We think we have seen a somewhat - sum ar case. There is, however, another form of what may, per- . haps, be termed chrome peritonitis, though we doubt very much its essential dependence on any inflammatory process. It is essentially partial occurring only on the serous coverings of certain organs. ' JvW I,'6 S<rUS SU/(aC? 18 invested closely for a greater or less xtent by a firm, whitish, false membrane, which can be pretty easily detached from the subjacent peritoneum, and appears, when held up to the light, of much thinner texture in some spots than in otters. The situation in which the false membrane is most com- pletely formed is upon the surface of the liver, to which it forms ometimes a complete capsule, compressing and atrophying it, and i bW,?Au1Se t0wi?ltef fl'°m mterferen°e with the free passage of the : blood through the structure of the gland. 1 8 • Jw?Ular Flriton^ia-—One of the best marked varieties of chronic Kei^tlS 18 t.ha^1wli1lch is often justly called “tubercular,” from CITS 7 dependent on the presence of tubercles in the peritoneum. These appear sometimes as semi-transparent grey - granulations, sometimes are more opaque, though still of miliarv m thro^W the “S A,"0,"1,'1 by Dt' West to >'» >""« «»««. on neLhbourL thvdlap,llragrn’,or 011 the abdominal walls in the j f of the spleen, while the parietal peritoneum is not somethin aS r Partt The ohief tubercular product is -.-.an, mes m t le omentum, and may assume the form of yellow h k 0Uf masses. Inflammatory irritation is produced bv the andf air aCtlng aS f°reign bodies, exudation of lymph takos place and adhesions are formed between adjacent parts of the serous )therCv WhlCh ar * °ften 80 close and dense that tho intestines or >ach other™ wVl™ m makl,nvf an attempt to separate them from vav ent l 1een the whole of the serous sac in this y entirely obliterated. There is usually some serum in the