SIMPLE ACUTE MENINGITIS. 238 There are then two principal forms of inflammation feting the arachnoid and pia mater Simple meningitis and tubercula meningitis. SIMPLE ACUTE MENINGITIS. t„ +V.TS disease three points especially deserve attention—the i tUtt of rhe membranes, the adventitious membrane formed vascularity of the memrna mate aud the effusion of serum We may, according to the stage and 1. p . i disease meet with either of these appearances, or fCZvltffi to .am, individual. It th, pafcut ha. S in the early stage of the disease we find, on removing the dura that the subjacent membrane shows a great ^crease of matei, th ^ be s0 intense as almost to resemble the vascularity, Y touch will, however, speedily f^Tthe Sal’nato of the discoloration. .The congesfion detect the ie ,, H11rface or appears m circumscribed spreads ®S-n<r a portion of the arachnoid we shall find the patches ; on rem g P down ^ t]ie pia mater between the congested vess 11. £ f lympb bas taken place a membranous convolutions. I^ef“hereVd there to inteiwene between the expansion Will De ioun -marbled appearance, or bands effiied stretching , p wafer and more, and most commonly attains e ° portion of the hemispheres. The lymph itself occupies the uppe 1 and presents the same variations dips down into tlLe- tSat tlris prodxxct of inflammation offers of density and consistencj^ ttasjr{ ^ elsewhere m pr°P°rt of tbe base, especially about the effusion beneath th the part to resemble the appearance optic chiasma, which , 1 fluid (from two drachms to of jelly, and a small am unUt sirnn ^ ^ ^ fonn of arach- an ounce) in t e\ a meanB necessary accompanunents. The mtis, though by n meningitis, offers no appreciable braid, id duridglife may derangement of 8^ il- tw that its functions were involved. The have shown very manffe y h t aracbnitis is not an occurrence formation of pus “V ^Zessary to bear in mind that it is a of frequency, but it ^ kable?nstance of this occurred under pathological fact. , Hospital, in a young woman m our observation at St. Mary ^supervened, and after thirty- whom sudden and j bad previously suffered from six hours terminated m death._ a0 eTidence of cephalic otorrhcea, but on her ato traced after death between the6'Affection If the oar and oro°