CHRONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. 824 carpal region. The radius and the ulna undergo like changes to those which have just been described; the lower surface of the latter, confronting the cuneiform bone, becomes smooth and polished, the inter-articular fibro-cartilage having been removed. Minute Changes in CIivotlic Hheumatoid A-Ttlivitis.—The changes in this disease seem to depend mainly upon changes in the cartilage, paitly atrophic, partly hyperplastic. Considerable absorption of cartilage takes place, and this is described by Eindiieisch as i os lilting from a process such as we have called above atrophy, or usure of cartilage; consisting essentially in proliferation of the cartilage cells and fibrous change, followed by softening of the intercellular substance. This goes on in the more central parts of the cartilage, where they are exposed to most pressure. The simultaneous hyperplastic changes which take place in the peri- pheral parts were admirably described many years ago bv Hr. W. Adams; who showed that they consisted m (1) 1 ‘ Hypertrophy of the articular cartilage, generally occurring at the circumferential margin, hut occasionally taking place towards the central parts of the articular surfaces. The new growth of cartilage takes place principally, if not entirely, near to the articular surface.” It is very similar, though not quite identical with the original cartilage ; a fibrillated character of the matrix, and the scattered, solitary, or imperfectly-grouped arrangement of the nuclei being the principal points of difference. Eindfleisch describes it as that species of cartilage which is about to undergo ossification. (2) “In the development of true osseous tissue in the hypertrophied cartilage, ossification commencing either in the newly-formed cartilage, or at the junction of the new with the old cartilage. Ossification piroceeds more rapidly in the newly-formed and forming cartilage, (the growth of which is probably simultaneous with the advancing ossification) than in the old articular cartilage: so that considerable masses of new bone are formed, alteilng the configuration of the articular extremities, whilst a layer of articular cartilage remains in its normal position. More slowly, but as perfectly, ossification takes place in this imbedded layer of articular cartilage. The process resembles the normal process of ossification in temporary cartilage in the intercellular matrix being the primary seat of earthy impregnation, and in the enlargement of the cells in the immediate vicinity of the hone.” Although the opposed sur- faces of bone become worn away, no caries ensues, the surface being protected by indurative ostitis, which produces the well-known hard ivory-like investment. The pendulous bodies which surround the head of the bone are also, no doubt, in part, originally ecchondroses. Effects of Dislocations.—The most common cause of dislocations is a violent strain or injury to the part; but they may also come to pass spontaneously, either from abnormal relaxation of the * “ Report of the Pathological Society,” 1S50-51, vol. iii. p. 156.