INVAGINATION OP THE INTESTINE. 581 Fig. 133. position ; the middle is formed by the portion of intestine imme- diately above, which is inverted ; so that its mucous surface looks outward, and is m contact with the mucous surface of the sheath • the inner is the portion of intestine next above, with its serous surface opposed to that of the middle layer, which is simply in- ti uded into the canal beyond it. Five layers will exist if another portion of intestine be forced down, and inverted into the original intus-susception, which then becomes a sheath to it. “Between the middle and inner layers, there is a portion of mesentery cor- responding m size to that of the intestine displaced, and folded up so as to represent a cone, the apex of which lies at the free termi- nation of the volvulus, with its base in the sheath, and at the entrance to the invagination. This portion of mesentery is always in a state of tension, which chiefly affects the part belonging to the inverted tube, and has a singular influence upon the form of the volvulus. It is the cause of the following circum- stances : First, that the volvulus • (the middle and inner layers) does 1 not he parallel to its sheath, but always offers a greater curvature 1 than the latter; the inverted tube , (the middle layer) being compressed 1 m its concavity into tense trans- ’ verse folds. Secondly, that the orifice of the volvulus does not lie m the axis or in the centre of the ' 5“®ath7 hut external to it; and that 1 following the traction exerted upon it by the mesenteric fold that be- ■ longs to the inverted intestine, it is •i directed towards the mesenteric wall of the sheath ; that it is not circular, n!rn?I>!'eSute a fissure. Intus-susceptions occur with equal fre- SIn t'hffi C° °n’ and Smad ^testine »• hut several cases occur- thef- 1ft foimer are remarkable on account of the magnitude of fh hiined. In these the sheath contained a very lon°- portion h ,Colo,‘Md ; both may be inverted two or themes anl'^ Th rSUSCept?d P,art advancee t0 vicinity of the the anus^ lle°-c;ecal valve has even been seen protruded at Diagram of intus-susception. a, The sheath. b, The receding or inverted tube. c, The entering tube. anfcS C™p™n™ofInvaginaUon.—Contraction of one part whicK*hC <fllstensl0n another, are probably the conditFons muscmSr' «£££ Upp6r extracted portion, whose miiRfuloT’ Mn4. ■ x* b ‘. ’ ounti acted portion. whose boh,cV tHomiV I® f°r 8T? dlstance upwards in a state of activity and PL! ! l ed ou*’ard ln.to the dilated part below. Disordered Qu ar lunei-vation is probably the remote cause, in this c as