PUERPERAL THROMBOSIS AND PHLEBITIS. T93 is also often seen ; and in very severe cases even the ductus thora- cicus has been found to contain a similar thrombus. Complete coagulation in the vessels would, of course, block the road to the poisonous matter, but the softening thrombus no doubt facilitates the passage of morbid poison into the blood. Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels appears to be excited by the presence of the thrombus. They show a somewhat reddish tinge, though not from actual injection, and their inner coat pro- liferates to form young cells or pus. There may, however, as Klob believes, be a lymphangitis without previous thrombosis. The consequences of these lymphatic inflammations may be a general state of what is roughly called pyaemia, but especially here shown by inflammations of the peritoneum, and less constantly other serous membranes, enlargement of the spleen and liver; but never metastatic abscesses in the lungs. PUERPERAL THROMBOSIS AND PHLEBITIS. The formation of clots, in those of the uterine veins which are connected with the placental attachment, seems to be a normal process and necessary to prevent haemorrhage. Prom these clots it is always possible that coagulation may spread to the neigh- bouring veins, viz., the plexus utero-vaginalis, the plexus pampi- niformis, and the twigs of the internal iliac vein. In this way the simple pelvic thrombi, which are evidently very common, are produced. Beside direct continuity with the veins in the placental attach- ment of the uterus, pressure of the pregnant uterus seems to be a cause of thrombosis. The coagula thus formed are seen mostly in the common iliac or its tributaries, and the external and internal iliac. These coagula are evidently most likely to lead to the coagulation in the veins of the legs, constituting jildegmasia dolens; though it appears that this coagulation has in some cases been traced also to continuity with the placental coagula. Another cause of coagulation is the dilatation to which many of the veins and plexuses will have been subject during the pregnancy. Dr. Davis deserves the credit of having first shown that Phleg- masia alba dolens depends upon thrombosis, or (as it was then called) inflammation of the crural vein ; Dr. Lee first succeeded in tracing the uterine origin of this affection anatomically; he demonstrated the “ inflammation ” commencing in the branches of the hypogastric vein, and subsequently extending from them to the iliac and femoral trunks of the affected side. The cellular tissue surrounding the vein participates in the swelling, and that, as well as the impeded return of the venous blood to the heart’ gives rise to much cedema of the limb, and condensation of all the tissues. This may be followed by suppuration, or sloughing; it may terminate in a complete cure, by resolution; or, in a partial