ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE STJPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 663 them could be found, but a small quantity of lax, dirty-looking, reddish, infiltrated, areolar tissue, which presented under the microscope only a mixture of altered granulous nuclei, large granulous or oil-holding cells, and a very large quantity of diffused granulous matter imbedding some oil drops. This was a case of unusually early atrophy. Another indication of atrophy is afforded by the apparent formation of a central cavity, which appears to exist in some cases quite distinct from that of the vein. It is formed, we believe, by the wasting of the medullary substance, and the production thereby of a space which is traversed by blood- vessels, and occupied only by serum, and a little stromal fibre. In this way a lax spongy tissue is formed, which softens by post- mortem decomposition, or is easily torn, and the appearance of a cavity thus produced. Haemorrhage.—Bokitansky says, “ hemorrhage not unfrequently occurs in them, on account of the vascularity of their medullary substance. The capsule is found distended in proportion to the amount of extravasation caused by the rupture of a vein; and according to the period which has elapsed since the occurrence of hemorrhage, we find the blood more or less discoloured and changed in constitution, inclosed within the cortical substance, which has become pale and atrophied, and is finally converted into a fibroid layer.” Suppuration and induration are occasionally met with as results of inflammation of these glands. They have been found converted into purulent pouches in the newborn child and in the foetus. Constant Alterations.—The changes which occur so constantly as almost to be regarded as normal, are fatty degeneration and pig- mentation. The former affects the cortical portion, where fat is found deposited in the cells. Though regularly present in the adult, this fat is said by Klebs to disappear from the cells in old persons, and also in the indurative conditions dependent on venous congestion or other causes. It is difficult to recognize any excess of fatty change as pathological. Pigmentation is also found in the cortical portion, but affects especially the inner layers of this, nearest the medullary portion. The pigment is deposited in a granular form in the cells; it is, in masses, brown, but in small quantity appears yellow. The pigmented portion becomes broader in old. age; and with the increase of pigment becomes softer, so that it is easily broken down on removal from the body, and appears as a brownish detritus. This pigmentation has been supposed to be connected with the excessive coloration of the skin observed in some diseases of these organs; but if there is any relation, it must be one of antithesis, since when the skin is thus darkened, there is usually absence of pigment in the capsules. Lardaceous degeneration often affects the supra-renal capsules when present in other abdominal viscera. The organ is enlarged, pale, hard, the medullary portion generally translucent, the