TISSUE RESEMBLIN'G THAT OE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 153 cancer Their other peculiarities will be best described in connec- tion with the special organs from which they arise. S. NEW GROWTH OF TISSUE RESEMBLING THAT OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS, OR CYTOGENOUS TISSUE ; LYMPHADENOMA, OR LYMPHOMA. The structure of lymphatic glands has of late years been very carefully investigated, and, as need hardly be mentioned, is found to bear no resemblance but in name to that of true or secret- ing glands. Its most impor- F,°- 2U tant feature, or rather that which most concerns us here, is the presence in the follicular portion of a delicate fibrous network, or stroma, composed of fine threads, with occa- sional nuclei and corpuscles at their intersections, in the meshes of which the lymph cor- puscles are enclosed (Pig. 24). While the same type of struc- ture is preserved, there may be considerable variation in the relative proportion of the cor- puscles and the containing net- work. The bands of the latter may even come to exceed in thickness the diameter of the corpuscles. The structure will then resemble what is repre- sented in Fig. 25. This form of tissue is seen in lymphatic glands, which are the seat of chronic inflammation or the peculiar enlargement men- tioned on the next page, and o/strnchirp nT ^ro1wths of cytogenous tissue. This peculiar type cvW.c ’ Whlch has recelved the of adenoid tissue and cytogenous connech-PR-hafiic j , , , ... Stroma or network of a lymphatic tumour of the mediastinum. «, Angular connective-tissue corpuscles forming part of the stroma, i, Free leuco- cytes or lymph corpuscles. A branched blood vessel is seen on the right of the figure. (From an original preparation.) nas received tne names of adenoid tissue and but 7«n°Ui “nnectivo -tissue, is not confined to lymphatic glands toUk 8CKh ln°ther organs not always regarded as belonging intcsti rt;rySt0m* Ih,t‘S0htury and a«mmatcd follicles ofthe like ntR08’ t^e thymus, and the tonsils are examples. This tissue andloeofbetSUSTP t °f, hyPw'trophy or hyperplastic growth conta n it i P^ ° I,r°ductl0n ln parts which do not norma lv 4s rausr&srte ■— “r rj— ycimauem ue called tumours Uyperpiaitic Production of Cytogenoue Tissue.-Hypertrophy of