SECONDARY OR PYA3MIC ABSCESSES. 487 obstructed; sometimes, though not always, blocks may be found in the larger arterial branches leading to the part. They are often situated near the pleural surface, and, before they are altered by suppuration, may be more or less wedge-shaped; but neither of these characters is constant. The pysemic blocks undergo rapid necrotic change in the centre, as do the haemorrhagic; but they change much more rapidly and soon soften into a puriform liquid. Actual pus is not, however, so constantly produced as would be supposed from the naked eye appearance; the liquefied contents of the ‘ ‘ abscess ’’ consisting chiefly of granular debris, fatty molecules, with a certain number of granular leucocytes and other bodies presently to be mentioned. In later stages, when the inflamma- tion is intense, actual pus is produced. Pysemic abscesses are always associated with an intensely febrile state and other symp- toms characteristic of “pyaemia,” a condition which has already been discussed. The only point necessary to discuss here is the nature of the connection between the original disease and its secondary manifestations in the lungs. It has already been stated that the capillaries, and often arterial branches of these blocks, are stopped up ; and the resemblance between the pysemic blocks and hsemor- rhagic infarctions has been pointed out. There seems every reason to believe that the obstruction of blood-vessels is the starting- point of the process. This obstruction is doubtless due in many cases to the impaction of small fragments of softened blood clot derived from some vein in the part which was the original source of infection; and such clots, are, as we have seen, in many cases found. Sometimes, however, there is no thrombosis of these veins discoverable; and we must still suppose it possible that local coagulation may be caused by the poison (whatever it be) which is contained in the blood in pyaemia. The material con- tamed in the obstructed vessels is described by Dr. Bristowe as a “soft, pulpy, yellowish material,” or else as something more approaching to ordinary coagulum; sometimes also “distinct pus”—that is to say, leucocytes too closely aggregated to be normal blood elements. Now this is precisely what is seen in softening clots from veins. It is not like the result of simple coagulation, being, if fibrine at all, fibrine which “ has under- gone changes requiring time for their production, and often clearly in advance of the changes which have taken place in the patches of diseased tissue.” It has been recently made more than probable that peculiar low organisms (a species of Bacterium) are present in the blood in pysemia, and are either themselves a poison, or the vehicles of poison. The relations of thrombosis and embolism iust toacod will then explain to us, not the origin of this poison, but the manner in which it is carried from the original source of disease to the lungs.