CHAPTEB XXXVI. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIVEB. Congenital malformations are rare ; absence of tbe liver is only observed in extreme cases. Sometimes tbe left lobe retains, in a greater or less degree, its foetal proportion to tbe right. Umbilical Vein.—This vessel, so important in foetal life, which ! becoming obliterated forms tbe round ligament of the Ever, sometimes remains pervious, tbougb very small, and iorms a minute channel leading from tbe portal vem to a superficial vein or sinus in tbe abdominal wall near tbe umbilicus. Jften a channel may be traced in tbe ligament from tbe portal vem lor about three or four inches, then becoming obhterated. these con- ditions may become important when in diseases of tbe liver, as- cirrhosis, tbe portal circulation is obstructed, since communication may thus be opened up between tbe portal and systemic circula- tions. It has been generally assumed that this communication must be through a reopened umbilical vem, but Sappey showed I that tbe appearance of such a vein might be produced bv the enlargement of certain small accessory veins, shown by him to ran within the suspensory ligament of the liver, forming an anasto- motic network round the obliterated umbilical vem, and opening either into the still pervious portion of this, or into vein. In several cases of cirrhosis observed by the editor, the explanation of Sappey has proved to be coiuect; but m one cine a vein representing the umbilical vem was found to L as far as the umbilicus, with a calibre equal to that of a swan- (V^Acquircd Malformations.—The practice of tight lacing m ^omen is sometimes the cause of marked deformity m the organ, lower ribs of the right side are pressed inwards so as to indent the outer aspect of the right lobe, causing gr.eat convexity, Jj the lower margin of the lobe projects below them. 1 j * Henle, “ Handbuch der Anatomie,” vol. iii. pp. 371, 3,®% A^atomTand l’Acad de Medicine,” vol. xxiii. p. 269. Cliampneys, “Journal of Anatomy an Physiology,” vol. Yi. p. 417.