408 DILATATION OF VEINS. the influence which, in common with all sexual diseases, it exerts on the mind of the patient. The form of varicosity in the female sex, corresponding to varicocele in man, is enlargement of the vaginal and pudendal veins, which, especially during the advanced periods of pregnancy, are the cause of much suffering, and may, during labour, give rise to very severe haemorrhage. Haemorrhoids.—Hseinorrhoids, or piles, were formerly thought to consist in an enlargement and varicose condition of the veins sur- rounding the anus, but are now known to be more complex in their structure. They may occur in terminal branches of the inferior mesenteric, a tributary of the portal vein, or of the internal iliac. They protrude in the form of bluish nodes, or form flat sessile tumours. From their position, and the frequent pressure and congestion they are subject to when once formed, they are liable to inflammatory attacks; in consequence of which the sur- rounding cellular tissue condenses and hardens. Small cysts are formed in the latter, into which blood is effused, and they then exhibit a complex structure, which has been the source of much disputation. Abernethy and Kirby even went so far as to deny that they were owing to varicosity of the veins, and asserted them to be mere sacculated prolongations of the condensed submucous tissue. They are, in fact, composed of convolutions of tortuous and varicose small veins, forming a sort of cavernous tissue by intercommunication; but may be combined with simple dilatation of larger veins. The sequel® to which they give rise are haemor- rhage, ulceration, and prolapsus of the rectum. The periodical character that is often observed in the sanguineous flow, is one that peculiarly deserves the attention of the physician. In man the affliction is common in persons of the middle of life, who have fol- lowed a sedentary pursuit; in women they are more apt to occur during pregnancy, and as a substitute for the menstrual discharge at the period of the climacteric. Varicose Veins of the Leg.—Of all forms of varix, none is, pro- bably. of so frequent occurrence as that which affects the super- ficial veins of the lower extremities, and more particularly tbe ramifications of the saphena. It is not peculiar to either sex, but is decidedly more common in females than males. This remark does not appear to apply to the Continent, however, for we learn from the statistics of Briquet, as well as from the statements of Hasse, that, with them, the male sex is the most liable. Another statement of Briquet, that it is more frequent in the right than in the left leg, is not confirmed by British experience. Hasse observes that, in men, the dilatation generally arises from the trunk, or the principal branches of the saphena, while he states that, in women, it commences in the minute twigs. It is especially at the ankle, and at the inner side of the popliteal space, that the veins are seen and felt, in the shape of an accumulation of tortuous vessels, of a more or less resistent feel. _ _ A varicose state of the veins of the pia mater is a condition upon