45 varieties of hyperemia. on that which is the essential circumstance in these two con- jditions. This, at present, is not possible, from the imperfection of i our knowledge; but it may be well to bear in mind the above c caution’. Passive Hyperoemia, or Congestion.—Congestion—employing the tterm to signify excess of blood in a part with diminished motion— : affects chiefly the small veins of the part, and the capillaries that lcommunicate with them. Hence its colour is inclined to be of a i dark venous tint, unlike the more vivid blush of inflammatory iredness. The part often exhibits patchy, irregularly-distended ^vessels, which can be emptied by pressure, but gradually fill again. ]Its temperature is not much, if at all, increased; and the pain ifelt in it is rather aching or dull than acute. The degree of swell- iing varies according to the cause producing the congestion and (other circumstances; generally it is not very great. Congestion imay exist alone, but often there are present also some exudations, I the results either of it or of the condition which gave rise to it. Causes of Congestion.—The two principal causes which produce (congestion are—(1.) Obstructions of various kinds to the return (of blood through the veins. (2.) A relaxed and toneless state tof the capillaries and small veins. Of the first cause we have sa good example in tying up the arm for venesection; the (current of blood setting towards the heart being obstructed, and the artery continuing still to pour in fresh quantities, the t capillaries and all the veins up to the obstructed part become (distended with blood. This is marked by the red or purple (Colour of the part, and its swollen condition. The same effects 'will of course be produced in all instances where the veins of a any organ are obstructed; obstruction of the jugular veins [produces congestion of the brain, of the renal veins, congestion of the kidney, and so on. The modes in which the obstruc- tion may be produced are very various; to take the brain as an instance, the veins returning the blood from it may be pressed on by an enlarged thyroid, or by a mass of indurated . glands, or by an aneurismal tumour. Temporary cerebral con- -gestion may also be caused by a prolonged expiration, or by holding the breath, especially when muscular exertion is made at the same time. The arrest of the blood in the veins in these cases depends partly on the diminution of the capacity of the chest, which takes place during expiration, partly on the suspension of the respiratory movements, which cause the blood as well as the air to rush into their respective cavities within the thorax during .inspiration. Perhaps the most marked instance of the effects of (this arrest is manifested by severe cases of hooping-cough. The capacity of the chest is narrowed more and more by the'repeated expirations, and the blood not being drawn onwards, but thrown back, accumulates visibly in the face, which becomes turgid; in the eyes, where ecchymosis sometimes takes place ; and similarly, ;though we cannot see it, in the brain, where extravasation may