123 DEGENERATIONS. «secondary disease, dropsy, and death. Textures are often rendered harder and firmer by other deposits than simple fibrinous, ashy ■ tuberculous, bacony, calcareous, but to these the term induration i: is not so strictly applicable. Softening of a part may be brought about by very various causes. [It is almost an invariable effect of acute inflammation actually e existing; it is also found as the result of inflammation that has in ? great measure subsided; it occurs from deprivation of blood, as a hind of atrophy, and probably, in some cases, as a local result of a .general cachexia. In all cases it involves a considerable deviation ffrom the state of healthy nutrition, and if it proceeds far, may * easily occasion a breaking down and destruction of the tissue. The i distinction of various kinds of softening, especially of the red, or inflammatory, has often been considered difficult, but may generally be made with certainty by means of microscopical examination, v which discovers in the former decided traces of exudation. Soften- ::ing is connected with the hypnotic condition of the blood, and - allied states, especially the typhous ; induration, on the other hand, • with the fibrinous crasis. Softening is more prone to occasion •speedy destruction of textures and fatal disorder. Induration, to ; produce gradual changes whose effects are slowly and gradually ■ manifested. Softening appears as a process of decay, and affects not only natural structures, but new formations, and even as we have seen tuberculous deposits and fibrinous coagula. Induration, on the contrary, though involving some degree of atrophy, tends to ; preserve the parts which it affects from entire dissolution. DEGENERATIONS. • Regenerations are changes of an essentially chronic nature, latent m their origin, and obscure in their progress, until they have pro- duced such deteriorations of structure as give rise to prominent • secondary phenomena. Those with which we are most acquainted are the fatty, fibrous, calcareous, and waxy or amyloid. They are, except the last, of extremely frequent occurrence, but their nature nas scarcely been recognized until of late. Fatty degeneration consists in the replacement of the healthy ussuo of a part, by drops, or molecules of oily nature, which are deposited, as it seems, instead of the natural material. This is tno case with the substance of the connective-tissue corpuscles shown in the figure (p. 124). This character distinguishes it from iatty accumulation or infiltration, which may take place to a great extent m the interstices of a tissue so as to overlay and conceal ns elements. In true fatty degeneration there is always destruc- tion ot tissue, -which does not occur when there is merelv an thm<eaSfr °t thVSubstance of the Part' A muscular fibre tissue i?fved+ifh0WS t,he 8arcou? elements, the real contractile tissue within the sarcolemma, replaced by glistening oil particles