SARCOMA OF THE BRAIN. 281 plate representing this disease; and Dr. Glen dinning brought a ease of the kind before the notice of the Pathological Society.' SARCOMA Sarcomatous tumours of the brain have the same general charac- ters as these tumours have elsewhere. Virchow t distinguishes two forms of cerebral sarcomata—the hard and the soft. The former are masses of dense homogeneous growth, very slightly vascular, and clearly marked off from the surrounding tissue by a more vascular zone; so that they can be very easily detached. In their ndnute structure they are composed of spindle-shaped cells arranged in a parallel manner, with a very distinct, firm, sometimes fibrillated intercellular substance. The soft variety sometimes offers forms which constitute a transition to a myxoma or glioma, but are distinguished from these growths by the great abundance of cells, which so preponderate as to give the tumour a medullary appearance; and there is no doubt that many tumours described as medullary cancer of the brain would by modern sys- tematists be referred to this group.J This form of sarcoma is described as of a greyish rather than a white colour, and usually ■very plentifully supplied with blood-vessels. It may, however, undergo fatty degeneration, becoming yellow or opaque. The cells may piesent all the varieties which have been described as incident to the cells of sarcoma, but spindle-shaped cells, with remarkably long processes and small cell-body, are especially noticeable. The intercellular substance is scanty and incon- spicuous. Portions of the tumour may sometimes be transformed into cysts, but without a distinct lining membrane. Haemorrhagic changes are not common. Cerebral sarcoma is always single; it does not generally spread by continuous infection; nor has it ever been known to give rise to secondary tumours in other parts. On the other hand, sarcoma of the brain may arise as a secondary growth, consequent on tumours of the same kind elsewhere. A remarkable example of this mode of origin is recorded in the transactions of the Pathological Society for 1867 and 1868; where a spmdle-celled sarcoma of the head of the tibia, which had’existed lor many years, was removed by amputation, and seemed to be completely cured. A year after the operation, cerebral symptoms supervened, and the patient died with numerous tumours in the brain partly connected with the pia mater, partly isolated, which naa the same typo of structure as the primary tumour of the ' “ 5^Pr;rt of the Pathological Society of London,” 1847 n 15 ; rpT^Ie Krankhaften Geschwiilste,” ii. 377. ’1 * lSwS? ? tumour described by Messrs. Gay and Toynbee in “Trans Path >» 1 undoubtedly now & called a sarcoma. 8°°- Trans. Path. Soc. vol. xvm. p. 21o, pi. iv. ijgs. 4, 5, 6,'and vol. xix. p.! . 33.