SYriIILITIC DISEASE OF TIIE LUXG. 518 by Dr. Moxon, it appeared to have been transported from the trachea into the bronchial tubes, and to have thus set up small secondary tumours.* SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE LUXG. The morbid changes produced in the lung by syphilis are not as yet very well understood, except in certain peculiar and some- what rare cases. As some syphilitic products seem much to resemble those of tubercle, they are, perhaps, sometimes mistaken for the latter. But on the other hand, as persons affected with constitu- tional syphilis often are very liable to tubercular phthisis, we must be cautious iu referring destructive or degenerative changes met with in the lungs of such persons to syphilis alone. The following are the chief forms of syphilitic disease met with in this situation :— 1. The true gumma, or syphiloma (p. 203). 2. A peculiar form of pneumonia, the “white pneumonia of some authors, chiefly seen in congenital syphilis. 3. A species of indurative lobular pneumonia. 1. Oummata of the lung are rarely met with; and more fre- quently in congenital than in acquired syphilis ; they have the characters already described in the first part of this work. 2. The white pneumonia of syphilis has been described by several authors. According to MM. Cornil and Banvier, it occurs in newborn children, and up to the age of ten or twelve years. They regard it as interstitial pneumonia, and describe the interlobular connective tissue as in a state of rapid proliferation, presenting a laro'e number of embryonic cells, and the interalveolar partition as thickened. The compressed alveoli are lined, or even filled with epithelial cells which are flattened when in contact with the walls, and rounded in the central space. The alveolar contents undergo fatty degeneration, and become absorbed, while the surrounding embryonic tissue becomes organized into fibrous tissue, so that a fibrous tumour, or a mass of fibrous material results, according as lesion was originally clearly defined or diffuse. , 3. Indurative lobular pneumonia is the commonest syphilitic lesion of the lung in adults. It is often, both in its earliest and latest stages, confounded with tubercular phthisis, but in its middle stages is very different. It commences with minute granu- lations resembling broncho -pneumonic tubercle, which become confluent into larger nodules up to the size of a walnut or stiff laro-er. These masses are composed of very dense, engorged tissue, harder than ordinary pneumonia, of a dark red colour, mottled and paler in the centre. They are distinguished from tubercular or scrofulous products by a slighter tendency to degeneration, inese * “ Trans, rath. Soc.," vol. xx. p. 28. See also vol. xii. p. 46 of same series.