THE ARACHNOID AND THE PIA MATER. 233 frequent after the middle period of life as almost to merit being classed under the changes of involution, but they are most marked in habitual drunkards; in delirium tremens they are often the only morbid appearances to be found in the cranial cavity. This opacity is commonly accompanied by more or less serous effusion, which fills the sulci, and raises the membrane from the surface of the brain. Instead of being transparent, and allowing the vessels of the pia mater to shine through, the surface looks milky to a greater or less extent, and more particularly on the surface of the hemispheres. Owing to the obliteration of the sulci by the serum, the affected portion of the cerebrum often looks as if the convolutions were compressed, but on removal of the serum the cause of this appearance at once becomes evident. The subarachnoid effusion may be independent of any affection of the arachnoid, and has been then thought to be due to congestion of the pia mater. It is probable indeed that this is sometimes the case, from the great abundance of vessels in the latter membrane, and their paucity in the arachnoid. Congestion of the vascular net-work contained in the pia mater is extremely frequent, though we are more often left to infer it, during life, than that we find it after death. It is the very natnre of congestion to disappear'in articulo mortis. Still, there is a sufficient number of affections, in which the vessels of the pia mater have been shown to be gorged with blood, without any further accoKqjanymg morbid conditions of the adjoining struc- tures ; thus we meet with it in cases of pertussis, of fever, of capillary bronchitis, or disease of the heart. Accumulation of Fluid from Atrophy of the Brain.—-From what- ever sourco the serous effusion may be derived, there can be no doubt tha t among the most frequent determining causes are atrophy and amemia of the brain. The cranium being a close cavity of virtually invariable capacity, it can be filled only by varying proportions of three substances, viz., blood in the vessels, watery fluid in the subarachnoid spaces and ventricles, and the brain substance itself. Thus Mr. Hilton has shown by experiment that by increasing the blood pressure in the cranial veins, watery fluid is driven out from the cerebro-spinal cavity and the ventricles which are in connection with them; and this is equally true of the fluid in the subarachnoid spaces. Whenever then, from deficient blood pressure through the failure of the heart’s action, or from deficiency of brain substance through atrophy, there is, so to speak, a tendency to form a vacuum, watery fluid is poured out to supply the place; though the precise source of this fluid is not yet known. It should be remembered that the subarachnoid or cerebro-spinal fluid is quite different from the serous effusion of other parts of the body. It is a thin watery fluid, of specific gravity 1-007, containing salts but scarcely any albumen; and is thus at once distinguished from “ inflammatory effusions” in not bemg coagulated by heat. The chief conditions in which an