830 PEBIOSTITIS. character; or the separation may have been so sudden and exten- sive, especially in adynamic individuals, that, as Dr. Copland believes, before suppuration has time to supervene, gangrene of the periosteum and necrosis of the hone result. In chronic periostitis there is a much less vivid injection, hut the swelling is more considerable; the membrane appears dense, opaque, or granular, and is generally adherent to the bone. The outcome of simple periostitis is either suppuration or ossification. Periosteal Suppuration.—The periosteum may exhibit consider- able swelling and a high degree of inflammation before suppuration takes place; when it occurs, it is sometimes very rapid. Pus accumulates between the periosteum and the bone and in the layers of the membrane. In the former case superficial or total necrosis of the bone results. If a part only is affected, an area of super- ficially dead bone is found, limited on all sides by thickened and inflamed periosteum. If the suppuration be very diffuse, the whole shaft of a long bone, for instance, maybe separated from the periosteum. The resulting necrosis is not to be regarded as wholly caused by cutting off the blood supply of the bone; hence there is nearly always simultaneous inflammation of the subjacent bone tissue itself, or ostitis. It is probably not strictly correct to speak of the separation of periosteum from bone, except by violence, since, in cases of apparent separation by inflammation, the super- ficial layer of bone is removed with the periosteum. Periosteal Ossification.—It must be remembered that the formation of bone is, so to speak, a normal function of the periosteum, and this function is called into play either in the course of normal development, or to replace lost bone in normal conditions of the human body. In the lower animals, it has been shown by Ollier, to persist even in pieces of periosteum entirely detached from their original site and grafted in other parts of the body. The property seems to reside chiefly in the layer of formative cells (medullary cells of some authors) forming the deepest layer of periosteum, or sub-periosteal layer; but bone may be formed in the outer layers, or even in connective tissue. The reproduction of bone by the periosteum is always accelerated by hypersemia, and the state of intense activity which constitutes inflammation. Hence the ossification is commonly regarded as a result of inflammation. Inflammation of the periosteum leading to the formation of bone, may be distinguished as ossifying periostitis. It is seen in the repair of bone after injury, and especially after fracture, and also accompanying necrosis. Chronic periostitis tends to enlargement of the bone, unless necrosis of the latter intervene ; and, even then, the ultimate result is usually thickening. Numerous specimens exhibiting the process are to be found in our pathological museums. Moreover, a large number of the osteophytes and other osseous growths on bones are doubtless connected with periostitis. A remarkable fact connected with periosteal thickening is the occa-