OILY MATTER IN THE BLOOD. 28 only from the amount contained in the serum, for it is present also in the red corpuscles and in the fibrine. The quantity contained in the crassamentum, which is made up of these two components, is not much inferior to that in the serum. The serum of arterial blood contains less oily matter than that of venous. Lehmann gives 0’2G4 per cent, as the proportion in the first, 0-393 percent, in the latter.* Chevreul gives the quantity of oily matter in blood-clot as amount- ing to 4 or 44 per cent. Lecanu distinguishes a crystallizable and non-crystallizable oily matter in the blood, the former in the pro- portion of 1-20 to 2'10, the latter in that of 1 to 1-30 per 1000 parts of serum. Cholesterine is the only crystalline fatty sub- stance which has been certainly found in blood ; it is of very common occurrence in exudations in various parts, .and in some tumours; it forms the well-known rhomboid tablets by which, when in a solid form, it is immediately recognized. The blood of females, according to Becquerel, contains on an average more fatty matter than that of men. In both sexes the quantity of choles- terine increases with advancing years, after the age of forty or fifty. It seems established, as was natural to expect, that the quantity of oily matter in the blood increases after taking food. A milky state of the serum had often been observed, but though it was generally supposed to depend on the admixture of chyle, this could hardly be said to have been proved until lately. Dr. Buchanan’s experiments upon healthy persons show that the serum “ becomes turbid about half an hour after taking food, the dis- coloration increases during several hours, attains its maximum in about six or eight (after a full meal), and then becomes gradually clearer till its limpidity is restored. The opaque serum is generally milk-white, sometimes cream-yellow, or yellowish brown, like thin oatmeal gruel; or it merely loses its limpidity, and is like weak syrup. It always contains solid white granules, smaller than the blood corpuscles, which are suspended in it, and which will rise in a white cream to the surface, either spontaneously or after the fluid has been saturated with common salt. The cream thus obtained is soluble in caustic potash, hut insoluble in ether or alcohol, and is considered by Dr. B. D. Thomson as probably a proteine compound.” A permanent milkiness of the serum, inde- pendent of variations in the supply of food, must be regarded as a morbid condition. It is especially seen in drunkards. In a case of this kind, which lately came under our observation, this was so strongly marked that a single drop of blood drawn by the prick of a needle became immediately surmounted by a white opaque layer, resembling cream. The microscope showed the serum to be crowded with fatty molecules, presenting an active Brownian move- ment. They were unaffected by acetic acid ; a notable quantity of fat could be extracted by ether. The man’s general health was a Lehmann found in 100 parts of dried blood corpuscles of the ox 2249 of oily matter; arterial blood corpuscles contained 1'824 parts of oily matter per ICO thereof; venous blood 3'596 parts.