HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY. 21. t Viichow, “Krankli. Gcsclnv.,” vol. ii. p. 2 S40 Ion er or Wider. The surface is usually irregular, sometimes still turther complicated with bony growths, or osteophytes; and from in- • sclerosis> the bone is also often heavier. This is seen chiefly m the long bones of the limbs and in the cranial bones The process appears to resemble normal periosteal growth, consisting in the ossification of successive layers. Sometimes a process, which appears similar, opcurs without any inflammation, and under this head must be brought certain extraordinary cases of bony develop- ment, where thickening of the whole bone, without special growth on the surface, is observed.* Dr. Wilks records a case where the skull became i to ^ inch thick ; the femur measured 8| inches in circumference above the condyles, and weighed 2 lbs. 14 ozs. The piocess has a certain resemblance to osteoporosis, into which it is possible that Dr. Wilks’s case might have developed. A remarkable tabulated or botryoidal form of hyperostosis some- times attains a great size. It is composed of compact, though not necessarily ivory-like bone. It is chiefly seen in the cranial bones A remarkable instance, producing frightful deformity of the face is described and figured in the “ Pathological Transactions ” (vol! ■^u-P'■ 245). It affected, beside the cranium, the hyoid bone and the fibula. On the latter was formed a solid tumour, more than 5 inches in diameter. The monstrous deformity produced in such cases has led Virchow to propose for them the name Leontiasis ossea. Other celebrated cases are on record.! Simple elongation of the long bones appears to be the con- sequence of some inflammation occurring before growth was com- plete ; the permanent result of a temporary affection. In the le°- this usually depends on elongation of the lemur. Sometimes the tibia, without the fibula, is lengthened, and then necessarily becomes curved. Physiological hypertrophy is seen in cases of great muscular development, where the bones generally, and especially the ridges for attachment of muscles, are found enlarged. Hypertrophy of the skull-cap is frequently, though by no means invariably, a concomitant of wasting of the brain. It is also said to occur in persons who go bareheaded, from hypercemia of the scalp. Condensation of bone, from interstitial growth, must be considered a kind of hypertrophy. It usually results from some kind of in- flammation. This condition is seen in the “ eburnation ” of the articular ends of the bones, in chronic rheumatoid arthritis. We have another instance in the minute structure of gouty bone, where, as we are informed by Mr. Ure.J the Haversian canals are enlarged,’ and choked up with cretaceous matter, which also lines "the medullary canal; the osseous corpuscles are also found to be larger than usual, rather irregularly scattered, and less distinct, and their canaliculi loaded with chalk, which is shown by analysis * “Trans. Path. Soo.,” vol. xx. p. 273. i “Lancet,” 1817.