CHAPTER XI. THE BRAIN—MORBID GROWTHS. The products of those perverted states of nutrition which give rise to new growths, are found in the brain, as in other tissues of the body, though for the most part in a secondary form; associated with or following upon their deposit elsewhere. They have certain features in common, owing to the anatomical relations of the brain ; thus they all generally assume a rounded shape owing to the uniform pressure to which they are subjected on all sides; they may not proceed to a high degree of development from the early danger to life which they induce ; they are liable to produce softening of the tissues in the immediate vicinity, and, owing to the impairment of the circulation, are commonly accompanied by an effusion into the ventricles. The last two circumstances are those to which we may probably refer the symptoms observed during life; for the presence of tumours in the brain is often not discovered until the death of the patient from disease of some other organ, and where they had maintained this quiescent state, the cerebral tissue in the vicinity exhibits no traces of degeneration. Thus Messrs. Tonnelle,* Le- veille, and others, who have devoted especial attention to the occurrence of cerebral tubercle, conclude that the tubercles in themselves do not give rise to any symptoms, but that the cerebral symptoms accompanying them are exclusively due to the inter- current inflammation. The difficulty of early diagnosis, and the fact of adventitious growths in the brain occurring almost exclu- sively in the secondary form, place them more especially in the range of the morbul anatomist; they are even less amenable to therapeutic treatment than when they have found a nidus in the abdominal or thoracic organs. The forms which we most frequently meet with are tubercle, cancer, and a special form of tumour, glioma; but sarcoma, myxoma and other forms are occasionally seen syphilitic growths' very rarely. * See RUliet and Bartliez : “Traits Clinique des Maladies des Enfants,” tom. xiii. p. 562, et seq.