ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS 03? THE URINARY PASSAGES. 703 blocked just at its entrance into the bladder, without any sign of inflammation of the tube, perhaps from inflammation of the bladder Injury to the ureter producing stricture, is an occasional cause.’ Congenital hydronephrosis, arising from some disease in foetal life is- sometimes seen ; the dilatation may be sufficient to hinder birth’ as m the congenital cystic condition. ’ Pyelitis. Inflammation of the urinary passages often coexists with, and may be the cause of, the state of dilatation ; while obstruction may, on the other hand, lead to inflammation. It is not unfrequently produced by the irritation of calculi, or results from the extension. of vesical disease, or from metastasis of this, according to Rokitansky. It appears sometimes to arise idio- patlncally, or from the general condition of the body. Stricture of the urethra is a common cause of disease of the mucous membrane of the bladder, as well as of dilatation of the ureters. The ufllammation set up there is very prone to creep backward, and aflect the urinary passages, which are predisposed to it by their ™ UT™ distension, and the prolonged contact of unhealthy ui ne. The mucous membrane is found in various degrees turne- fied injected, or of a saturated red colour, of villous aspect, and ih a mUC0'pUrulent fluid- Perforation of the ureters may take place in consequence of sloughing, the urine infiltratin'* into the adjacent tissues, and producing either extensive sloimli- lnQ, or circumscribed abscesses. The inflamed mucous membrane m many cases, causes phosphates, or a mixture of thSe and Sr et’ t0 ^ dep?fted fr°m the uriue- When atrophy of the kidney takes place, these saline deposits, cemented together bv mucus form a ‘‘yellowish-white, greasy, and chalky pulp 0r putty-hke material, which fills the calyces,” and is enclosed bv the wasted organ as by a cyst. This form of destruction of the dimin’ the PyePtis from which it arises, are often regarded as due to tubercular disease, and then we hear of “ strumous ” or scrofulous pyelitis But it certainly may arise from oichnarv wheT^,a+10L ’’ ai?d Wren the- dlsease is confined to one kidney or en no tubeicular disease is present elsewhere in the bodv it be ob,SSly“C not to h alite ?,S jU°ted: Pn other cases, a renal calculus, of the kind ty A clot of h.°UtiaS the Ph,°SphatlC’ may pe Produced in tSs way. a clot of blood is sometimes thought to be the nucleus SST* CalCUl1 3re rath6r the Cause than result of i^am" Croupous or Diphtheritic Pyelitis.— Rokitansky mentions thn EH f mf rmi,latl0n' Which he distinguishes by he name Kato1V®’ from the above catarrhal form, as a secondary affection n cases of serious blood disease. It is observed in fvnhus +1 PYffimia™^’ m dlph,hent’S’ and acute tuberculosis, and ’also in Pi‘ ™la’ and occasions the formation of unhealthv fi bvinn, the ™s