420 CASEOUS, TUBERCULAR, ANT) SCROFULOUS GLANDS. ized, and have little permanence; they soon undergo an imperfect fatty metamorphosis, which either leads to complete absorption and resolution, or else to a merely necrobiotic change, the perished . j cells remaining mingled in one mass with the new ones which are continually formed. The gland in its early or hyperplastic stage has a uniform pale grey, translucent appearance, though sometimes more opaque, and I either white or pinkish. Sometimes it is more succulent than a; i healthy gland, hut in general drier and denser, though the vessels • are prominent and full. This condition does not iast long; the gland becomes denser andi tougher, and the necrobiotic decay of the newly formed elements- begins; yellow patches begin to appear in the grey mass, and: finally the whole gland may be converted into a firm, tough J yellowish opaque mass, the appearance of which has been compared j to that of a raw potato, only that there is less moisture. This is- called the caseous metamorphosis, but in fact the dry crumbling :i consistency which suggested this name is only gradually developed i out of the condition just described. The caseous mass is still susceptible of further transformations.. Sometimes softening takes place, by a kind of imperfect solution, so that a turbid puriform fluid results, containing only debris of: tissue, fatty molecules, and the like, which has however been, called scrofulous pus. This may open externally, forming a scro--: fulous ulcer, and the morbid material he completely eliminated, so: that only the well-known scrofulous scar remains. Again, another change is possible, consisting in more complete drying up anda deposition of lime salts, so that either an atheromatous paste con- taining cholesterine and other fatty products, or else an actualJ calcareous mass, results. Complete resolution and absorption are also even at this stage pos- sible. Actual suppuration is not common at any stage of the process above described, but may under some circumstances take place. Children are peculiarly prone to scrofulous and tubercular disease* of the glandular system; but there is a considerable difference in the proclivity of different sets of glands to be affected. All authors* are agreed that the bronchial are pre-eminently endowed with this* tendency. The analysis of one hundred post-mortem examinations: a of children affected with scrofulous and tuberculous disease, bj | Dr. Lombard,* showed that The bronchial glands were affected in ST The mesenteric do. do. 31 The cervical do. do. t The inguinal do. do. 3 In the case of the bronchial glands a communication is occasion- H ally established between their contents after they have softenec* * Andral: “ Pr&is d’Anatomie Patliologique,” vol. 1. p. 425.