PYEMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. Ill 'Spontaneous gangrene in old persons, or others, in which after j jdeath no obstruction of the blood-vessels is found, can only depend on an actual and premature loss of vitality in the part affected, the t tissues of which are no longer able to carry on the actions of vital 1. chemistry, and yield to those of inorganic, i.e., decompose, before : the death of the system has actually occurred. In gangrene from I local violence, or from frost-bite, &c., the vitality of the tissues of tthe part is destroyed by the injury done to them. The general ccharacteristic of gangrene in all these cases is the failure of vital aaction; decay and death in the tissues, intense inflammation, aabsence of blood-supply, a poison circulating in its current, senile ddecrepitude, a fearful laceration, may all have the effect of dissolving :the vital affinities which hold together the elements composing the ccomplex substances of our organism, and allowing them to fall lhack, as they naturally do, into the simpler compounds of inorganic c chemistry. Gangrenous parts which are exposed to the air are i eessentially putrescent, and contain both the usual chemical pro- c ducts of putrefactive fermentation and the organisms (Bacteria) i vwhich accompany or cause this process. Varieties of Gangrene.—The distinctions of dry and moist gan- cgrene, of black and white, of inflammatory and cold, have reference vvery much to the state of the affected part, with regard to the supply of blood. If the gangrene have its origin in inflammation, there will be a considerable quantity of fluid ichor effused, and the colour of tthe part will be of a deep red, or almost black. On the contrary, if tthe gangrene depend on deprivation of the supply of blood, the part ''will be more dry, and of a pale colour. Sometimes, especially ifrom the effect of ergot of rye, a limb dries and shrinks up, becomes mummified, as it is said, with little change in colour. !A black colour is, however, often observed in parts affected by gangrena senilis; this, no doubt, depends on alteration of the blood an the vessels, though there is often no hypersemia. Soft tissues are more liable to mortify than such as are of a firmer consistence, bones, elastic and fibrous tissues resist longer than muscle and mucous membranes; the large vessels and nerves are sometimes - seen completely exposed by the ravages of hospital gangrene, all the tissues being removed from around them. The constitutional disturbance which often supervenes on gan- grene is easily to be accounted for by the absorption of decom- posing matters into the blood, which act as a virus upon it, and render it unfit to maintain healthy action. PYAEMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. These conditions or diseases, as thoy are among the results, though only occasional ones, of inflammation, may very properly’be con- sidered here. The name Pytomia was originally intended to mean (,as it does etymologically) the presence of pus in the blood • and it