NEW GROWTHS OF THE BLADDER. 709 epithelial covering, incrusted with urinary salts. In women it has been discharged during life, and perfect recovery has ensued. Eokitansky mentions what we have once observed ourselves, an eruption of minute miliary vesicles, containing a clear serositv upon the surface; they accompany, he says, catarrhal inflamma- tion and slight exudative processes, as well as Asiatic cholera. Acute and chronic inflammation of the muscular coat of the bladder are both spoken and written of, but the former appears to take place only as a part of general cystitis, and the latter, if it intend more than hypertrophy of the muscular fasciculi, is only that general infiltration of the parietes, with induration matter, which we have before noticed. Pericystitis, however, seems to be a more distinct affection; it consists in the spontaneous inflammation of the cellular tissue surrounding the bladder, arising either as a primary or a secondary process. It is to be regarded, Eokitansky says, as a localization of pyaemia. Prom its original seat, it is apt to spread to the areolar tissue round the rectum, to the anus, and into the scrotum; it may involve also the coats of the bladder, and cause perforation of them. It is sometimes of a chronic form, and then gives rise to induration rigidity, and callosity of the bladder. Softening of the mucous membrane, not resulting from inflam- mation, was observed by M. Louis only twice out of five hundred autopsies; in these the tissue was converted into a kind of pale mucilage. Eokitansky has seen it only once, in a case of typhus. Tubercle is infrequent in the bladder, and it usually arises by secondary extension from the sexual organs in the male, less frequently by extension from the kidneys. It has never’been observed in the female sex, nor is tubercle formed here in cases of general tuberculosis. It is only met with in the form of separate granulations, which are surrounded by more or less hypereemia according to the rapidity of their production ; these soften and ‘rive rise to circular ulcers of the mucous membrane coverin°* them The cervix and fundus are the parts chiefly affected. Cancer is much more often seen in the bladder as the extension of disease from contiguous parts, than as the primary phenomenon, this at least seems to be the more general opinion ; but Dr. Walshe affinns that primary vesical cancer is far from being so uncommon as is generally supposed, and we are quite inclined to agree with him. Scirrhus is very rare in the vesical parietes. Mr. Coulson has never seen it, nor has Sir B. Brodie, except where it constituted part only of a morbid growth. Eokitansky mentions having seen it extending over large surfaces of the sides of the bladder Lncephaloid forms nodules in the walls of the bladder, which lead on the one hand, to ulceration, on the other hand, to promoting growths on the surface. Adhesion to the neighbouring organs perforation and fistulous openings into the rectum, vagina ileum’ or peritoneum, may result. ’ ’ Villous cancer, or cauliflower-like excrescence, is the form which