397 EMBOLISM. K block up the trunk of the pulmonary artery, or one of its main :i1 branches, causing sudden death; if smaller it will interrupt the j t circulation in a portion of the lung, producing resiilts to be pre- sently discussed. Simple blocking of the systemic arteries will produce gangrene, haemorrhage, dry necrosis, or other changes, i a accoi'ding to circumstances. ! On the other hand, a clot coming from a vein in a part of the bbody where there is inflammation, especially inflammation of a j,-certain kind, may set up inflammatory and destructive processes in the part where it becomes arrested. This is the case in pyaemia, . and hence the embolic process is a most important part of the jtmachinery of pyaemia. Again, emboli composed of new growth may - set up a similar secondary new growth in the parts to which they . are distributed, and hence this process is one of the means by which the generalization of new growths is effected. The further consequences and symptoms of embolism will obviously depend upon the functions of that part of the body whose blood supply is cut off. The mechanism of the process has been chiefly explained by Yirchow and Kirkes, but some points have lately been elucidated by Cohnheim. * Secondary Changes in the parts affected with Ernbolism.—When a part of the body has its blood supply suddenly cut off, the follow- ing may be the consequences :— 1. No permanent effects follow if there is a sufficient collateral circulation by anastomosing arteries to furnish an adequate blood supply. _ In this case the only result is that the portion of artery intervening between the embolus and the next branch becomes obliterated. _ This may occur- in blocking of the cerebral arteries -before the circle of Willis, of the larger branches of the pulmonary artery, or of any arteries in the skin, muscles, digestive tract, glands, bones, joints, and other parts where the anastomotic : arrangements are complete. 2. If, on the ether hand, the artery is, in Oohnheim’s words, “ a >terminal artery,” that is to say, without any anastomosis, and -communicating solely with capillaries, the blood supply is not restored, and the consequence is either (a) necrosis of the part supplied, or (b) engorgement followed by hemorrhage, forming on a Tr aCe ecchym°sis, in deeply situated organs infarctions. ■ i-L*3rSans which these processes are likely to occur are five ; tiz., the spleen, the kidneys, the retina, the brain, and the luns's’ (C<\ mWese “ terminal ” arteries are found. («) Simple necrosis occurs in organs secluded from the air when ue secondary changes of engorgement and hemorrhage are not uperadded. It is seen most frequently in the brain; as for blocking 0f the middle cerebral artery. In parts -vpastu to the air the necrosis becomes gangreue (if, as before '“oOrgement and hemorrhage are absent). This is seen in block- Untersuchungen tlber die Embolisehen Processe.” Beilin, 1872.