62 CAUSES OF HEMORRHAGE. of which outside the vessels become occupied with blood (as the alveoli in the lungs), it is called a haemorrhagic infarctus. CAUSES OF HAEMORRHAGE. Beside direct violence or injury, these causes can only be in- creased blood-pressure within the vessels or diminution in the power of resistance possessed by them; but a peculiar constitu- tional vice or diathesis exists in some persons which predisposes them to bleeding, of which the cause is not always obvious. The fluid pressure exerted by blood within the vessels is of course increased both in active and passive hypersemia, and hence either of these conditions may be the cause of haemorrhage. As examples of the former, we may quote the haematuria produced by diuretics, and probably the common occurrence, bleeding from the nose; of the latter, haemorrhage from the stomach in cases of stasis in the portal vein, or from the lung in cases of obstructive heart disease, are good examples. There are various alterations in the walls of vessels which diminish their power of resistance to the blood pressure; such are fatty degeneration and atheroma, causing rigidity of the walls, with or without dilatation and aneu- rism, which occasion hEemorrhage in the brain and in the heart. Similar alterations are, according to Cohnheim, the cause of the haemorrhage which follows the obstruction of small arteries (haemorrhagic infarctus). The vascular walls become altered by the failure of nutrition due to the absence of arterial blood. The vessels of new growths, as tumours and granulations, are often very delicate and liable to rupture, and the same is true of the vessels in new-born infants, whence arises their great liability to haemorrhage. Inflammation of certain parts, as the lungs, is accompanied by hEemorrhage. The peculiar liability to haemor- rhage seen in certain individuals and in certain diseases, is not easily explained. Sometimes it seems almost to constitute a disease by itself, as purpura, or is combined with more serious cachexia as in scurvy; or gives a peculiar character to some cases of other diseases, as haemorrhagic small-pox, haemorrhagic scarlatina, &c. These phenomena have been supposed to depend upon some (chemical) change in the composition of the blood, and though this has not been demonstrated, certain experiments have thrown light upon it. Thus, poisoning with phosphorus or with sulphuric acid produces hEemorrhage, and the injection of solution of com- mon salt into the veins of frogs has been seen to cause the passage of red blood corpuscles through the walls. Some persons again have the remarkable constitutional peculiarity, not only that they are particularly liable to hEemorrhage, but that bleeding, once set up in them, cannot be stopped. This curious tendency, which has received the name of “ hsemophily,” appears to be often here- ditary, and to be especially derived from the female parent. It