DILATATION OF THE HEART. 341 * “ Medico-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxxv. General dilatation without any attenuation is very rarely mot with, though sometimes in a distended auricle the conditions mav be very nearly balanced. Dilatation, with thinning of the walls is the most common form, and seems to depend upon some degenera- ItTs produ“ng weakness in the muscular substance. It is thmefore essentially an atrophic condition. E ,diIat®d beart f ay be attenuated to an extreme ■’ he thickest part of the left ventricle maybe reduced to two bnes m diameter, while at the apex the muscular substance may have disappeared entirely, so that the endocardium and peri- c.udiurn are in apposition; at the same time, we find a corres- nni'.'!/dlmiI1Ut)'0n the. thickness of the column*. In one l td e.ls a characteristic difference between hypertrophy and ^tation .independently of the nature of the lesion. This is in egaid to the part affected. The left ventricle is most frequently ' c?mSlvWin ^yP^Phy. white we meet with dilatation most commonly in the right ventricle. It has been stated that the : wHiVoTfind T\VTM° dilatation- males to hypertrophy; we do not find this to be the case. On analyzing the ninety-two cases of heart-disease collected and reported in the “Medico Chirurgical Transactions ” by Dr. Barclay,* with a view todeler - ^4 0cLiTedqrn1e°m’lWG ^ °.f fourteen cases of dilatation, hiertronhv &nd °lght m malesi °£ sixteen cases of nypertropby alone, seven were women and nine men • of fortv femaW8 dypei'trop}ly combined with dilatation, seventeen were takes pkee more in ' ^ J)]latatl<m- as Dr. Hope remarks, tmrwT tL ! ln,tile transverse than m the longitudinal direc- heart an unusnabv e8R alldi r accordirig1y communicates to the such m r sl)bencal form, the apex being rounded off in ;° scarcely distin^iishable. . tronhvP ff tS the aurlcles more frequently than hyper- diseased iSl?1’ WVrm8t b(J careful in not hastily assuming a tension “rr?dltl0n’ where its semblance is owing merely to dis- tens.on. This is particularly the case with the right auride appoal's much dilated> owing to the accu- morfis T°/fbl00d taklnS place on this side of the heart in articulo anno If reirl0vmp the contents the cavity presents its norm , appearance, we consider it to have been merely mSanio-.nvT J Sf,oin0,„SLh“rt is - Partial Dilatation or Aneurism, of the Heart 1