294 TETANUS, TRISMUS NEONATOEUJI, AND HYDROPHOBIA. of haemorrhage tinder tlie pia mater, but external to tbe cord, is also quoted, from Dr. Stroud’s notes, by Dr. Bright (p. 340). Numerous instances of spinal apoplexy occurring in children are given by Dr. Mauthner, but as no post-mortem appearances are recorded, the inferences are solely derived from the symptoms, ■which do not enable us to state positively the exact nature of the effusion. A tumour described by Dr. Bennett as a cyst com- pressing the cord and originating in the sub-arachnoid space, appears to have been an old apoplectic cyst.* Spinal Meningitis.—We possess more satisfactory and copious evidence regarding the inflammatory affections of the spinal meninges, and it appears that it is a very frequent cause of death in new-born infants; thus, Billard found, that in thirty cases of convulsions, there was meningitis of the cord in twenty, only six of which presented inflammation of the cerebral meninges. It is much less frequent in the adult, and is here almost invariably associated with, or consequent upon, cerebral inflam- mation. As a result of an acute inflammation of the mem- branes, we find lymph or pus exuded, to a greater or less extent. Either may invest the entire surface of the cord, or it may be limited, as in a case that fell under oiu- own observation, m a child four years of age, to a space of an inch and a-half in length. Cases of cerebro-spinal meningitis are, as we have before remarked, frequently epidemic, but occasionally met with sporad.- cally. We must be careful in at once concluding, that we have to deal with a case of spinal meningitis, because we find the theca vertebralis lined with pus, for it may find its way from without into the cavity; thus, in a case of psoas abscess, given by Dr. Bright, the sudden supervention of fatal symptoms was manifestly due to this cause ; a probe could be easily passed from tne inter- vertebral foramina into the adjoining abscess. _ In the chrome form of spinal meningitis, the traces of the disease consist in greater or less opacity and thickening of the arachnoid, which frequently is found closely adherent to the spmal cord, and corrugated. TETANUS, TRISMUS NEONATORUM, AND HYDROPHOBIA. These diseases have been at different times supposed to depend upon inflammation of the spinal cord or its membranes, but as it seems without sufficient cause. The appearances met with in trismus neonatorum, areU>nee_- tion of the spinal arachnoid, with an effusion of blood or serai into its cavity; and Dr. West! also states, that in t le nee ' which he examined he found effusion of fluid or coagulated blood I “ Trans. Path. Soc„” I860, vol. vil. p. 41 “The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, p . 126, 1st edition.