ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BILIARY PASSAGES. 645 ulceration of the ducts; the smaller branches are so rarely ex- amined, that its existence may have been overlooked. Dr. Budd records one very interesting case in which an ulcer of the common duct made its way into the superior mesenteric vein, close to its termination in the portal; the result was phlebitis of the vessel and purulent formations in various parts of the liver and the lungs, as well as in the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the head and face, and in some other parts also. If inflammation, attended, probably, with some amount of ulceration, attack the cystic duct, obliteration of its channel may be the result, or the same may be occasioned by a gall-stone lodging there. The gall-bladder now has become a closed sac, the bile which it contained is gradually absorbed and replaced by a mucous or glairy fluid; this is at first so abundant as to convert the bladder into a tense capsule, resembling, accord- ing to Rokitansky, the sound of fishes, but, afterwards, this fluid is reabsorbed and the gall-bladder contracts and shrivels. Oholeste- rine is often present in great abundance in the fluid contents of such gall-bladders; this is especially the case when the coats are diseased and thickened. The loss of the biliary reservoir seems to have no injurious effect on the health. The duct. com. choled. may be closed by concretions, cancerous growths, or croupy exudation : the outflow of the bile being thus prevented, it collects within the ducts and causes general dilatation of them. In such cases Rokitansky says the liver is in a condition resembling that of yellow atrophy, the parenchyma of a dark yellow or green colour, turgid, though pulpy and friable. Dr. Budd, in "the case he records, describes it as of a deep olive, finely mottled with yellow, the tissue flabby, but not easily broken down, the lobules undis- tinguishable. The cells in this and in another case were destroyed, and only granular and oily debris, mingled, in Dr. Budd’s case’ with yellow matter, remained. In two cases which we have observed, the cells were not destroyed ; they had a yellow or greenish tint, and were rather stunted, but not at all broken up. We injected in one a large dilated duct, and obtained the important result that the terminal ducts were not dilated, and were of about the same size as in healthy livers. Rokitansky says that ‘ ‘ this affection invariably proves fatal with symptoms of biliary infection of the blood and consequent cerebral disease, which is often combined with exudation on the arachnoid, with intense icterus, and extreme pain in the liver.” In Dr. Budd’s case there were no symptoms of cerebral poisoning, and the mind remained clear to the last. Croupy inflammation occasionally, but very rarely, attacks the gall ducts. “It gives rise to tubular exudations, in which the bile forms branched concretions, which block up the passages and if ?ause dictation of the capillary gall-ducts.” The coats of the gall-bladder may become cedematous in dropsy, or the subserous tissue infiltrated, as in peritonitis; increased deposit of fat mav also take place in the latter situation, and perhaps induce (coin- cide with ?) fatty degeneration of the muscular layer. Rokitansky