389 DISTRIBUTION OF ANEURISMS. Dr. Roe’s case ivas still further remarkable from its affecting the patient at the early age of twenty-one. Dr. Brinton,* from an analysis of about forty well-authenticated cases of cerebral aneurism, finds that three-eighths terminate in rupture, one- eighth from simple loss of functions by pressure, one-eighth by convulsive attacks, one-eighth by congestion or haemorrhage of the brain, one-eighth by inflammatory conditions of the brain, and one-eighth by coincident disorders or accidents. In three instances Dr. Brinton found the aneurisms more than one in number; in one instance three were found; in one the opposite carotids were symmetrically affected. These aneurisms sometimes occur in young persons, even at the age of thirteen, and when the arteries generally are healthy. Dr. Church f has collected twelve instances in persons under twenty, in the majority of which there were vegetations on the cardiac valves, and there is therefore a certain probability of their being due to embolism, especially as they generally occur at those situations on the arteries which are also often the seat of embolisms. Visceral Aneurisms.—Aneurisms of the coeliac axis, of the mesen- teric, hepatic, renal, and other visceral arteries are occasionally met with. Aneurisms of the pulmonary artery and its branches are very uncommon, as is advanced atheromatous disease of these vessels. The only recorded cases have occurred in vomicte produced by phthisis, and have often led to fatal htemorrhage. The injury to, or inflammation of, the arterial wall caused by the breaking down of the lung tissue must be regarded as producing the aneurismal dilatation. Although observed as long ago as 1841 by Bearn, j they have been till lately almost overlooked, at least in this country. Dr. Douglas Powell § has found that such aneurisms or aneurismal dilatations exist in a large proportion of cases of fatal haemorrhage in advanced phthisis. Miliar// Aneurisms.—Beside these larger aneurisms, we must again refer to the minute “miliary” aneurisms of Charcot and Bouchard, || before described as occurring in the brain. They are however not confined to the brain or meninges, though most numerous there, being occasionally found when searched for in other parts, as in the retina, on the surface of the heart, and in the submucous tissue of the oesophagus, intestines, and bladder. Biff use or Traumatic Aneurism.—The, mechanical injury of an artery may cause the effusion of blood into the surrounding parts which constitutes what has been termed diffuse false aneurism. It generally produces gangrene; but inflammatory reaction may be v,o!- “Contributions to Cerebral Patho- lender; Ibid. vol. ni. p. 433. ther eases in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xvii. p 79 t. p. lOo, vol. xxu. p. 37. des Andvrismes Miliaires.” Paris, 1871. * Report, 1850-51, p. 48. + “St. Barth. Hosp. Report? logy. » ibid, voi iv p, 142, Cal X “Lancet,” Feb., 1841. O vol. xviii. pp, 45 and 55, vol. x? § Ibid. vol. xxii. p. 41. li Liouville: “ Generalisation