768 CANCER OF THE UTERUS. sex Hospital, in fifty-seven of which he confirmed, the diagnosis by post-mortem examination. The same writer has drawn atten- tion to the wide discrepancies met with in the accounts by various authors of the form of cancer usually present in the uterus. Quoting several distinguished authorities he shows how contradictory are their statements on this head. Lebert, for example, finding epi- thelioma in only six out of forty-five cases, whilst Forster—an equally eminent observer—discovered forty-two instances of epi- thelioma in fifty-two cases of uterine cancer. The form of cancer most often encountered in the uterus is probably carcinoma, such as commonly attacks the female breast, but the alveolar stroma is rarely well developed in this position. Far oftener the firm white infiltration is found to be made up of densely aggregated cells of very various sizes and shapes, grouped into irregular clusters by an open, delicate fibrous stroma, or infil- trated amongst the uterine tissues. Epithelioma is, however, very frequently met with—not, indeed, in the characteristic form of “ cauliflower excrescence,” which is a comparatively rare pheno- mena, but occurring as a ragged ulceration, whose white friable base is found to consist largely of squamous (in rare instances columnar) epithelial cells, rapidly proliferating in the deeper uterine tissue, and occasionally even presenting the well-known “bird’s- nest” bodies. Sarcoma, either spindle or round-cell, is also liable to attack the uterus, and to affect the cervix, and spread thence just as do the other forms of malignant cell-growth. According to Gusserow, sarcoma is more apt to invade the fundus than the cervix, and he states, indeed, that it alone does attack this portion of the organ. We have ourselves, however, seen two cases of spindle-cell sar- coma commencing in the cervix and running the usual course; whilst we have more than once found detached nodules of carci- noma lying in the uterine wall at a distance from this position; and we once examined the body of a woman whose uterus was wholly destroyed by distinct carcinoma, excepting the os. which was quite free. Glusserow also states that the soft infiltrating growth met with at rare intervals attacking the mucous membrane lining the uterine cavity, the os remaining free, is a variety of round-cell sarcoma. According to this observer, pain is a symptom complained of much earlier in sarcoma than in carcinoma or epithelioma of the uterus, from the stretching of the uterine tissues around the imbedded nodule, and the consequent lesion of the fine nervous filaments. Some authors describe mixed forms of sarcoma and carcinoma. Owing to the very rapid destruction which always accompanies malignant disease of the uterus, the disintegrating cancer material crumbling away in gangrenous sheds and melting into the foetid vaginal discharge, and to the almost constant inflammatory changes which run a simultaneous course, it is often extremely difficult to make out the minute structure of the disease. Aot