556 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. peritoneal cavity, but no punform matter, unless, as occasionally happens, acute inflammation has supervened upon the chrome and proved fatal. The tuberculous material sometimes undergoes softening, as in other situations, and the extension of this process may cause perforation of the walls of the intestines, and either establish unnatural communications between distant parts which have become adherent together, or lead to the effusion of the intestinal contents in the serous cavity. The latter event, hjv- ever is more likely to be produced by the softening of tubercle in v ’ J the submucous tissue, since Fig. 127 UUU 7 it is often simultaneously pre- sent there as well as in the mesenteric glands. There is no relation apparently between the amount of deposit in the peritoneum, and in these two other localities. The lungs and bronchial glands are often tu- berculous when the perito- neum is affected, but often in a much less degree, and they may sometimes be altogether exempt. Rokitansky describes^ the muscular tunic of the in- testines as being still more affected in this disease than m acute peritonitis ; it becomes pale, is easily lacerated and broken up. This gives a further reason why laceration often oc- curs on attempting to separate the intestines which are matted together. Miliary tubercle of the omentum, and changes in surrounding parts. a, Tubercle completely formed. b, Cluster of small cells forming an in cipient tubercle. d, Proliferation of endothelium. The acute form of this com plaint is usually, if not invan ably, either subsequent to somt chronic form of tubercular oi degenerative inflammatory dis- ease elsewhere, or a part o general acute tuberculosis. Jh< chief features of the disease an the production of grey miliar tubercles in large numbers and should its course be somewhat mg sions between adjacent surfaces. _ The mass& oi g y & ~ may attain a very considerable thickness wi ,-enerillv? tha caseous transformation. In fact, it may be s S h - th;U tubercle in the peritoneum has a tendency to b bio us rat to caseous change. From an original preparation (“ Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. xxi. p. 198, pi. v.).