CANCER AND OTHER NEW GROWTHS IN THE LUNG. jlo t Trans. lath. Sou.,” vol. xxiii. p. 245. ’Q’r 1872. of the constant elements of this disease preponderates over the others. 3. Cases in which one lung only is affected with fibroid in- duration and partial destruction are more properly referred to the chronic pneumonia formerly described. CANCER AND OTHER NEW GROWTHS. No kind of tumour is common in the lungs as a primary growth but most of them may occur secondarily when first produced in other parts of the body. Referring to the classification formerly . given, we must begin with simple histioid tumours. Fibrous tumours may be said generally not to occur in the lung either primarily or secondarily. One case is, however, recorded by Mr. Paget, m which a strictly fibrous tumour gave rise to - secondary growths of the same kind in the lungs. * The following have never been observed in the lung - -Myxoma lipoma, angioma, adenoma, myoma. ’ Cartilaginous and bony tumours have both been observed as ' secondary growths after the recurrence or removal of similar • tumours m distant parts. Instances of this metastasis of carti- laginous growths have already been given (p. 143). It has been ' fefdwai®nch0^dr0ma may occur in th<? lung as a primary ■ growth, but this needs confirmation. The bony tumours found in the lung are generally, if not always, osteoid,. Ihe form of simple tumour which most frequently occurs in the ungis lymphoma Growths of this kind frequently originate in ho bionchial glands or m the mediastinum, and may then spread by Sl!r rtl0n mt0 MalG of these tumours have lescubed as cancer of the lung, or mediastinal cancer. The tiue character of the tumour, however, is apparent when a section Ivnmbrirlshaken ,up water to remove the superabundant in Pi, T ?orPuscles> when the characteristic stroma represented n tv?;T:u a])PTn - ®lmllar Amours may, however, originate ffef in rf1M ^a“ i’ and r6ach a Ve^ lal'8'e size- without t on Ui A, lung-! The -lu°g u attacked by a species of infiltra- vessels 1ieKdS the root of the principal S and chief bronchi. Often the growth evidently takes place de aSedrTf ‘i dmslons of tko pulmonary artery. Sometimes na e orfn’ ^ tu?ours aro formed. Tho growth is usually Pate, opaque, soft, and gives on section a very large ouantitv iiT/r *, js toisuysSw hflvo ntype1°f m®d?llary cancer. Several cases of this affection thi hbrn descnbeid f lat° Jears>t and, doubtless, many more which were fonnerly described as medullary cancer really^belong * Surgical Pathology-,” 2nd edition, p. 762.