RHACHITI8, OR RICKETS. 848 the liver and spleen. By these alterations, the capacity of the thorax is greatly diminished, and dyspnoea results. The clavicles are very frequently deformed, being bent at an angle in two spots, one near the attachment of the pectoralis major and sternomastoid, the other near the acromio-clavicular articulation. The former is attributed to muscular action in raising the arm, and also to bearing the weight of the body on the arms: Curvature of the spine is chiefly in the lumbar region, or general. If the latter, it extends from the first dorsal to the last lumbar vertebrae, and is an exaggeration of the natural curve iu children that have not begun to walk. Sometimes a concave curve in the lumbar region is associated with convexity (backwards) in the dorsal. This is in children that have begun to walk, and is an exaggeration of the natural double curve of the spine. Angular curvature does not occur ; lateral is rare. The distortions of the pelvis resulting from rhachitis are next in importance to those of the thorax. The irregularities of the pelvic diameters due to this disease are caused by lateral contraction, bv an ajjproximation of the acetabula, by antero-posterior narrowing, from an advance of the sacrum, or by an asymmetrical deformitv, due to an arrest in the growth of one half of the pelvis. In all these cases the mechanism of parturition will be interfered with in proportion to the amount of malformation, and it is the brim which will be found to be chiefly at fault, though each part indi- vidually, or all collectively, may be involved in the deformity. “In most cases of partial deformity at the brim,” observes Br. Ramsbotham,* “the lateral diameter is increased in size nearly in the same proportion as the conjugate is diminished : but however much the width from ilium to ilium may exceed the ordinary dimensions, the increased space thus obtained will in no degree make amends for the diminution from the sacrum to the pubes ; because it is necessary that there should not exist less than a certain quantity of available room in every direction to permit the child’s transit.” From the sacrum having to support the entire spinal column, the lower lumbar vertebrae and the base of the sacrum are very apt to be thrown forward where there is deficient cohesion, and the consequence will be a diminution of the conju- gate diameter. In this case the diameter of the outlet is frequently found enlarged. The ilia will not present the usual expansion, the crests of the ilia will be nearer to one another than in a normal pelvis, and the female will probably also present a hollow-backed appearance. The sacrum is commonly deprived of its concave form, and exhibits a more rectilinear anterior surface, or as Smellio has observed, the vertebrae that compose it ride over one another, and form a protuberance in the part that ought to be concave. These malformations causo those varieties in the form of the * “The Principles and Practice of Obstetric Medicine,” p. 39.