ULCERATION OP THE BRONCHI. 4,31 tlie bronchi of forty-nine phthisical subjects, with special regard to this point, found ulcerations in twenty-two. Dr. Copland is of opinion that ulcers occasionally perforate the bronchial tubes, and thus occasion abscesses in the pulmonary parenchyma, and there is no doubt that this is one of the processes by which cavities in phthisis are produced. In these cases there appears to be an antecedent production of tubercles in the mucous membrane and tubercles may often be seen in the neighbourhood of such an ulcer If they are wanting, it is still possible that the ulcer may have been originally tubercular; but no perfectly definite rule Clin be laid down to distinguish tubercular from simple catarrhal ulcers. D has also been supposed that there is a syphilitic ulceration of the bronchi as of the trachea and larynx, but this hardly seems to be estabfished with certainty. Some instances of extensive ulcer- ation independent of tubercle or any specific disease, are, however recorded. In a case of this kind observed by the editor* the ' wnf °( ?arlir aU tbe bronchi of both ^ngs as well as the tiachea, but not the larynx, was covered with ulcers, sharply defined and of u-regular shape. They extended nearly through the mucous membrane, and appeared to have their starting-point in an infiltration with lymphoid cells which affected all the mucous and nar(-mUfbotjh °f the cartila§inous and non-cartilaginous parts of the wall; and was unconnected either with the mucou« *d\tbe carriage, or the perichondrium. It had much resem- thoash ii“"u oot b° °Hhe Br°nchi.-Other morbid states, besides those already alluded to, may give rise to obstruction or stenosis of the thenShai tUbeSi may be Produced by an actual hypertrophy of the submucous layers, as a result of chronic bronchial irritation or y serous effusion, as in dropsical states of the system The SirP T m th6Se different cases may be identical, being produceil by analogous structural alterations ; but it is manifest ‘^nsidhe mn'StltUtli'nal ^asis uPon which they rest may differ very ons^erably as also the influence they exert in livino- subjects upon the further production of morbid conditions ° J ' rp J . 1 ~ K - UiU UUIHIILIU11S. ^ 4fMttona.— The pulmonic symptoms accompanying •So.,.,I ; It 8tate8 14 al™y» to appear as an intense iolet fin? g n°n ; th? mucous membrane is of a dark, almost LatLo,SWsllen a“d succulent, and yields a secretion of a jLft ar}^ 80rnehnies dark, blood-streaked mucus. The n tbo ’KaCC°nd?g to -Jb18 autll0r> is most commonly developed ■mited to the stage of congTstion, and never 'rise to of ^parent production of a secondary formation in^.the tissue of the I “ p®2?°1!og?ca,1 Transactions,” 1869, vol. xx, p. 30, and pi 1 t Pathological Anatomy,” vol. iv. p. 23, 8yd. Soc. Ed P