829 PERIOSTITIS. cancellous tissue itself, whereby its cells become enlarged, and sometimes the whole bone becomes expanded by the simultaneous vieldhm of its walls, and sometimes so much softened as to crackle under pressure (Holmes). A bone m this condition, if macerated, shows a certain degree of osteoporosis. Seouelce of Rarefadive Inflammation -The process just described may it is probable, come to an end, and resolution take place, without further consequences. In such a case the bone does not, according to Forster, remain in the osteoporotic condition, but o-raduallv becomes filled up by the sclerotic process hereafter snoken of A more pronounced form of rarefactive inflammation, called fungous ostitis by MM. Cornil and Eanvier, must be very rare In General, the rarefactive process is only the first stage of a more enduring morbid process; and since the future course- of the inflammation differs according to the part affected, we must describe separately the periosteal, osteal and osteomyelitic afThe°different forms and results of inflammation of bone are thus summarized by Mr. Holmes:—The products of ostitis are divisible into two principal varieties; on the one hand the deposi- tion of earthy matter and formation of new bone; on the other hand suppuration. The former result terminates m hardening, or sclerosis the latter in a variety of conditions. When the suppura- tion is limited within a cavity, circumscribed abscesses are pro- duced- when the pus extends along the inner surface of the membrane lining the medullary cavity and cancelli, it produces the condition now known as osteomyelitis, formerly called “diffused suppuration in bone;” suppuration between the peri- osteum and bone forms periosteal abscess, acute or chronic; and any of these forms of suppuration, when accompanied by the insensible exfoliation of the bone, constitutes ulceration of the bone or caries. Lastly, inflammation of the bone sometimes leads to the death of larger portions of its tissue ; this constitutes gangrene of bone, or necrosis, which, however, like other forms of gangrene, is often produced by other causes not inflammatory. PERIOSTITIS. Acute inflammation of the membrane is characterized by a red blush, a humid succulent appearance, with much swelling and thickening of the membrane, and more or less of a serous effusion, causing a°slight separation from the bone. The periosteum may, as Lobstem* observes, be seen to present this condition in the vicinity of chronic ulcers or of old cicatrices. As the inflammation advances, the connection between the membrane and the bone becomes more lax, and the effusion may exhibit a purulent * “ Anatomie Pathologique,” vol. ii. p. 83.