EFFECTS OF ACTIVE HYPEBA3MIA. 60 But it is rather with morbid hypersemia that we are concerned as pathologists. This is, in a very groat number of instances, the commencement of inflammation; but we shall not speak of in- flammation as one of its results, hut consider it separately. The effects of morbid hypersemia are generally unnatural excitement, or oppression of an organ. The part contains more blood than it is able to manage, its healthy play is interfered with, and it is either goaded into a false, aimless, and exhausting activity, or is actually oppressed and enfeebled directly. The chief features of the condition are, probably, increased attraction of blood to the part, with diminished vital change, and undue dilatation of the arteries leading to it. If the brain he the seat of determination of blood, in a morbid sense, there will be throbbing of the carotids, and their superficial branches, restlessness, more or less intolerance of light and sound, diminution of the power of attention and application, dreamy and disturbed sleep, irritability of temper, attacks of giddiness, &c. The face and eyes are apt to he flushed, and the feet cold. The uneasy sensations about the head are increased by stooping, or the recumbent posture. The kidney, in cases of acute anasarca, manifests an excellent example of morbid hypersemia. It is en- larged and turgid with blood, but its texture is not apparently altered. Its secretion is scanty, loaded with albumen and with fibrinous concretions, and epithelium of the tubes. No doubt can exist that its functional energy is gravely impaired. In active menorrhagia we have a third instance in which, from various causes, a morbid hypersemia of a hollow organ lined by a secreting mucous membrance is induced, the results being pain and uneasi- ness in the region of the affected part, increased sensation of heat, tension, and throbbing, which are relieved by the discharge of a fluid more completely sanguineous than the natural secretion; in fact, by an almost real haemorrhage. In such an instance it is not only the mucous lining of the uterus that becomes hyperaemic, but the whole organ, with its thick muscular walls. Their tissue is loosened up and swollen by the quantity of blood admitted, so that the size of the organ is increased; and if this hyperaemia should not in great degree subside, the result may be a permanent enlargement and congested state of the uterus. The foregoing examples, taken from different organs, will serve as sufficient illustrations of the effects of active hypersemia. It seems, how- ever, desirable to allude, somewhat more in detail than has yet been done, to hcemorrhcige, flux, and dropsy, considered as results of hyperaemia in general. _ . These may be regarded as the effusions of hypersemia, as dis- tinguished from inflammation. No doubt they do also occur m cases where inflammatory action is proceeding; but still they are not the special and characteristic products of this state.