479 DISTRIBUTION OP PNEUMONIA. At a later stage (Fig. 100), when the lung is already grey and granular, the appearance is somewhat different. We then <*et a much more opaque mass in the centre of the alveolus, with a more rounded outline, and surrounded by a large number of cells of irregular form, and apparently more or less flat and epithelial in character. Similar cells are seen covering very thickly the walls themselves, ihe capillaries in this stage appear generally empty after death, a tact which explains the grey colour of the lun°', though it is not easy to conceive of them as other than very full during life. The opacity of the exudation mass shows that changes are going on m it probably in part fatty degeneration—and °its rounded shape shows that it is becoming'detached from the wall on all sides, a difference which accounts for the granular appear- ance of this stage of pneumonia, and the ease with which the rough casts already mentioned are obtained. Furthermore the abundant production of new cells of epithelial character shows one source of the new elements of pneumonia, and probably one factor in the loosening of the exudation mass from the walls. (This alveolar waU”^ by Eindfleisdl “ catarrhal desquamation of the • * later stage> Y^n resolution is fairly in progress, the mass is stiff more granular and indistinct, while the number of new ceils is immensely increased, and these are more “ indifferent” in character, without the pronounced epithelial form. This consti- tutes purulent infiltration,” and is the process which fits the masses contained in the air cells for expectoration. there are diversities, as might be expected, in the minute characters of the different varieties of pneumonia. When the msease occurs m the course of typhoid fever, and in other forms of -man 8 °T Pneuraoma, the amount of fibrin is very small, and the alveoli are mainly filled with cells. Sometimes the Inn , arrn?ears t0 b° 111 excess> which S^es great hardness to the tend to tZSir" “ «™ - pnetummia, which DISTRIBUTION OF PNEUMONIA. PoSL^rf Hable idi°patllic Pneumonia are the inferior i 1UT\ T p110 Upper lobes and apices op the with tnb i yr affected with pneumonia, except in connection moniaSfu0' o°U1S state« that he has constantly found pneu- a traceotthnTL° Upperand anterior part of the lungs, without he luvs if ? llSGaS0 uxlsting posteriorly, to be tuberculous; and kad to it 1 a : hat tins localization of pneumonia may This i« ,t1n id £mn<TS °f tubo.rcular dlsoase previously undiscovered7 observordiOU ,t0<l iy mrreCt 111 tbe raaln> L,lt as Sir Thomas Watson regardin',, * 18 p,'obably exaggerated; and exceptions to the rule »Ey.ir„nuwr T„st'.r *•»r»»*»«. £ 3 1 01 tubercle. Indeed, the numbers given by Andrul