54 ACTIVE HYPER/EMIA—DETERMINATION OF BLOOD. veins and arteries under a mechanical stimulus. He says, “If, as one is watching the movement of blood in a companion-artery and vein, the point of a line needle be drawn across them three or four times, without apparently injuring them, or the membrane over them, they will both presently gradually contract and close ; then after holding themselves in the contracted state for a few minutes, they will begin again to open, and, gradually dilating, will acquire a larger size than they had before Fra. 3. the stimulus was applied.” It must be noticed that Mr. Paget’s observation has reference to the wing of the bat, while Mr. Whar- ton Jones’ conclusion has been formed from examination of the web of the frog. The former, as a warm-blooded mammal, is no doubt a better representative of man than the reptile. Phenomena of Irritation.—What we can see, by the microscope, in parts that are the seat of ac- tive hypersemia, in consequence of the application of a stimulus, is by the very accordant testi- mony of the best observers as follows : — When a moderate irritant, such as tincture of cap- sicum, or a drop of some essential oil, is applied to a transparent part the arteries speedily dilate, and a rapid flow of blood through them ensues. This seems to tell on the capillaries and veins, which become dilated also, so that vessels, which before scarcely admitted blood globules, are now traversed by great numbers. Sometimes the dilatation seems to be preceded by constriction of the artery; but this does not constantly occur ; and when it does is of very brief duration. It has been often said that the flow of blood was accelerated in arteries that were contracted; but the reverse seems rather to be the truth. It is the dilatation of an artery that is accom- panied by greater rapidity of the current, though it cannot be the cause of it. Professor Paget writes, “ As the vessels are con- tracting the blood flows in them more slowly, or begins to oscillate; nay, sometimes, even before the vessels begin visibly to contract, one may observe that the blood moves more slowly in them, as if this were the first effect of the stimulus. Nor am I sure that I have ever seen (what is commonly described) the acceleration of the flow of blood in the contracting vessels. Such an acceleration, however, is manifest, as the vessels re-open ; and as they dilate, so apparently in the same proportion does the Contracted artery, from Wharton Jones’ Essay.