NECROSIS. 835 with the surface by one or more openings, termed doacce. It is ivery rare for dead bone to he enclosed on all sides by living bone ; ^generally it is in contact with the periosteum on one side. The changes which this membrane undergoes accordingly become an : important factor in the separation of the dead bone. One of two events may happen; either the periosteum dies with the bone, in which case the dead surface of bone is ex- fposed, or it becomes thickened and undergoes ossification. In i rthe former case the limiting inflammation of bone is all that :is necessary for complete separation, and the dead bone exfoliates. Iln the latter case, not only is the dead bone cut off on the fperiosteal side, but a process of repair sets in by which the loss of i bone is replaced. The process is best seen when the whole or large ppart of a long bone suffers necrosis, specimens of which are to be ifound in all museums. Simultaneously with the formation of the furrow of demarcation ihetween living and dead bone, a similar space, filled with pus and sgranulations, is formed on the periosteal side, so that the perios- tteum is apparently detached, and the sequestrum isolated on all •sides. Billroth contends that the periosteum is not, strictly •speaking, detached from the bone, but that what occupies its place ds partly the superficial subperiosteal layer of bone, partly the eexternal layers of periosteum, while the intermediate or truly iifibrous periosteum simply perishes. Goodsir always held that ■some bone was detached with periosteum. However this may be, 'there is a thick structure in the place of periosteum, which, as it becomes separated from the bone, at the same time undergoes ossi- fication ; this process taking place, as Billroth states, also in the •adjacent connective tissue. In consequence, long before the dead bone is separated, there is a large amount of periosteal bony sgrowth, and ultimately, when the isolation of the sequestrum is ' complete, it is surrounded on all sides by a bony case, but sepa- rated from it by an intervening space, in which are pus and -granulations, and which communicates with the external surface by cloacte or sinuses. The new bone thus produced is at first '?Pongy or callus-like, but becomes denser, and ultimately strong enough to replace the perished shaft. This condition often necessitates surgical operation. If the ‘sequestrum be removed by art, the cavity in which it lay becomes tolled up by endosteal ossification; and what is practically a new •shaft, always larger than the original, and most probably always •solid, without any medullary cavity, is left. In other bones the details of the process will of course be different. A remarkable -instance of the capabilities of an unaided constitution occurred to i.os while investigating the effects of the powers of phosphorus in f producing rfecrosis of the maxilla. A man came under our notice, i:n whom tho destructive process had caused death of the body and T:ami of tho lower jaw to such an extent that the entire bone, with tshe exception of the condyloid processes, came to lie loose in the