CHAPTER X. THE BRAIN.—GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. The question that meets us at the threshold of an inquiry into the pathological conditions of the brain, is whether the amount of blood contained within the cramum in the adult, can vary. There is no difficulty in determining the question in the child, for there, as long as the fontanelles are unclosed by bone, the cerebral circu- S th° same laws a8 rule the general the LtUt When the 8ku1118 P°mpletely formed, the pressure of the atmosphere is m a measure withdrawn from the contents, and the variation in the amount of blood contained in the cerebral vesseis is very much lessened. Still, in applying the law of cXmfoTbloPrrU1V f13 8\lbj(iCt’ we must remember that the barometerblood reaching from the heart to the brain is not like the th v fhi ’ ! gle Wlth a vacuum at the closed end, but S' irhb,T,reSSe ninay be ““Pared to a curved tube both ends of winch are equally under the control of this law. If it were not so influence011 C°uld,,not- indePendent of the heart's beat, exert any ventnck* PT ce.r0bral circulation. The presence of the 3ue S® ’ i °f T'°Slt-Y m tbe cavities and subarachnoid fluid of vi inn T d ?l\na Cana-'18 a furtller indication that there is a pro- thi -l° meet thw speeds of variation—for it is in obedience to fimdl ™ I/ atmosPherlc Pressure, that we may assume these ds mutually to assist one another, and as the walls of the ramurn cannot collapse, to keep up the balance of the circulation by vicarious action. We have already seen that Natureshowsher ie°ct0VheCUffm -eDlle hydr°?Gp^aluS’ where-if explanation\e tomct) the effusion is mainly due to the atrophy of the brain Whdewe admit, therefore, that the constriction placed upon'the vessels 0f the brain and the peculiar character ofPtho cranS c^n! tents, prevent as great a variation m the amount of the fluid con tents as takes place m the thoracic or abdominal viscera wo twi assured that a variation does take place, and sufficient to’aTe™ 1 anUonol °f thil .phen0I,nena of nutrition and disease. It is impo/t sflfi place tbis question on a proper basis, as it is one I h ,uegeet3 iMf t0 the Vithout . L&S;