104 STJrrUEATION. which they float. It seems to us very questionable, whether the dissolving action which pus is said to exert on pieces of dead flesh belongs at all to it in a healthy and fresh state, and whether it does not really depend on the generation of acids within itself, in consequence of decomposition. Purulent effusions may degenerate into a semi-fluid amorphous mass, the corpuscles breaking up, and the serum undergoing chemical changes, often of a putrefactive kind. They may also undergo fatty degeneration, calcareous salts being liberated or deposited at the same time. Either of these two changes being premised, it is possible that a purulent collection may he absorbed, but it is only too probable that in the former case the result will be a fatal contamination of the blood by the decomposing matters taken up into it. Apparent temporary ab- sorption may be easily produced by means which, creating a considerable demand for fluid, withdraw the serum from the pus- corpuscles ; hut as these retain their vitality, they soon attract a fresh quantity of blastema from the blood, and the abscess remains undiminished. This persistent vitality of the organized corpuscles of a fluid which is regarded as effete in the highest degree, and incapable of any further development, is certainly remarkable; one would rather have expected that they would have disintegrated rapidly. Distinction of Pus.—Pus may he confounded with some other fluid, and the distinction is sometimes only to he made out by careful microscopical examination. What we have said respecting softened blood-clot, will show that a fluid having this origin may approach very closely to the purulent product of inflammation, so much so, that it may he doubted whether it be not in part identical with it. Since, as has been said, a single pus-corpuscle has nothing distinctive about it, the character of pus can only be given by the immense number and preponderance of such elements. Pus, when mixed with a fluid such as urine, may sometimes be distin- guished from other substances containing similar corpuscles, as mucus, by the great abundance of fatty matter. Prom epithelial detritus and the broken-down contents of hydatid cysts the micro- scope readily distinguishes it. Mucus.—The last inflammatory product which we have to notice is mucus. Speaking correctly, it is only unhealthy mucus which comes under this head: for it is perfectly clear that several inter- nal membranes secrete a mucous fluid. The distinction between this and the morbid product is tolerably precise, and easy to he ascertained. The former is a tenacious, clear fluid, containing only some admixture of the epithelium of the membrane produc- ing it, and having no special corpuscles of its own. The latter is loaded with corpuscles, identical with those of pus, together with a varying quantity of epithelial debris. Between such mucus and pus it is evident that a close analogy subsists. Mucus may be dis- tinguished, like pus, into a fluid, the liquor mud, and corpuscles. The liquor muci, as we find it in the secretion of a membrane