414 MORBID ANATOMY OF THE CAPILLARIES. often unequal, so that the capillaries become varicose or irregular in outline. These changes may be traced in the mucous membrane of the bronchi, or in the conjunctiva. Degeneration of the capillary wall occurs in several forms ; the fatty is the most common. Fatty degeneration may be traced in the brain, especially in cases of softening, but to some extent as a normal condition in old age. It is also very obvious in the kidney in some forms of Bright’s disease, and there affects both the reticulated intertubular capillaries, and those of the Malpighian glomeruli. The protoplasma of the epithelial plates becomes dotted with fatty granules, sometimes arranged around the nucleus. Lardaceous or amyloid degeneration is sometimes seen to affect the capillaries of an organ when the disease is in an early stage ; the wall becomes thicker, more refracting, and all distinction of structure is lost, so that the tube appears generally more glassy or hyaline. This also is best seen in the kidney. Pigmentary1 degeneration, if it occurs, results from htemorrhage. Changes in the Perivascular Space.—'The capacityof this space vanes inversely as the state of fulness of the vessels. Thus in the brain Golgi * found that the perivascular spaces were large in antemic conditions, small in hyperromia, especially when this condition came on suddenly. Normally this space contains nothing but lymph; it may, however, come to contain blood corpuscles from liseniorrhage, or yellow granules, the result of previous heemor- Tn il.pP. Morbid Changes in the Outer Sheath.—This sheath in capiUaries probably participates in the fibroid thickening, often seen in the corresponding parts of tlie smaller arteries : but tlie subject nas received little attention ; a peculiar hyaline thickening has been seen round capillaries of the brain in cases of insanity. Aneurismal Dilatation q/ Capillaries. -These vessels may, like arteries, be dilated into minute aneurisms. The vessel is some- times obliterated beyond the aneurism, which makes the aneurism appear like a terminal dilatation. _ Capillary Embolism and Thrombosis.—The obstruction of capil- laries, by finely divided matters which are too small to be arrested in the arteries, has been observed clinically, and produced experi- mentally. Some authors, as Feltz.t would even refer to tms cause the production of infarctions, which we have attributed to arterial obstruction. The obstruction of pulmonary capillaries by finely divided fatty matters was first observed by Wagner, who traced the fat to the marrow of bones. We have observed the obstruction of capillaries in the lung by masses looking agglomerations of leucocytes. Similar obstructions of systemic ^OO ca ro-iomeratiuLIS ui AC. — . - •• Hilaries have been observed in various parts of the body in ou>cs of pyaemia. Frerichs has supposed obstructions of the same kind * gee <■ Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science,” vol. xi. new senes, lSTl, n 297 ; Virchow’s “ Archiv,” vol. li. p. 60S. P’+ “ Traite dea Embolies CapiRnires,” 2nd edition. Pans, 1870.