41,5 MORBID AX ATOMY OF THE CAPILLARIES. to be caused by granules of pigment in cases of ague. Bastian has described a case of obstruction of cerebral capillaries by protoplasmic masses, believed by him to be spontaneously formed in the blood ; and attributes delirium to this cause. The results of capillary embolism will be trifling and temporary, if only a small area is affected; but if the part affected be con- I - siderable, necrosis will result. If the inaterial be of such a nature i a as to injure the vascular wall, haemorrhage may occur ; if it be of an irritating nature, inflammation and abscess. All these results have been produced experimentally. Teleangiectasis.—Among the chronic forms of disease which 1 are attributed more particularly to the capillaries, and to which we have not had occasion to allude elsewhere, is the affection which Mr. John Bell and English writers following him, have termed | : aneurism by anastomosis, or the Germans, more classically, - teleangiectasis.* It is also known by the simple term, erectile f tumour, which is probably the best, as it implies no theory. The affection is commonly congenital, and presents itself in the shape of a cutaneous swelling of a circumscribed form, and bluish-red colour, liable to considerable variations of distension, according to the state of the circulation. The tumour commonly, though °not ■ always, offers a pulsation to the touch isochronous with the arterial pulse. Bell described the tumour as consisting of a con- - geri(;s of vessels, between which were cavities and cells communi- cating with the latter ; others have attributed the affection solely ! to a distended condition of the vessels, among whom may be mentioned Syme and Pelletan. J Biudileisch points out that there is not only enlargement of : capillaries, but a very abundant new formation of these vessels. “ ,ls a vascular hyperplasia, the production of new vessels L taking place on Ins view, by the transformation of connective ! tissue corpuscles. There appear to be in fact two forms of these 1 tumours, one consisting of vessels only—the simple angiomata • another of vessels with cavities or blood spaces, the cavernous 1 angiomata. The common nsevus is the type of the first; the niore deeply seated vascular tumours formerly described (n 14 the type of the second.! U ' J , Jeleangiectusu, literally expansion of the remote vessels. rtiAe I $ vessel, Uren'oj, I distend. See also page 168. : ti ,ke: “ Geschwulnte ; ” Pitha und Billroth's “ Chirurgie || p. 252 ; \ irehow: “ Krank. GeschwUlste,” vol. iii. p. 307. distant, remote, vol. ii. div. i.