247 HYDROCEPHALUS. it is not uncommon to find the circumference to attain as much as twenty-six inches and more, during the first three months, and to vary but little subsequently. The immediate pathological effect of this secretion is to compress the parts within the skull, and to distend and prevent the due ossification of the cranium; the frontal bone is made to protrude, and the parietal hones, from their yielding character, bulge out considerably on each side, while the intervening soft parts present fluctuation. Ossification takes place, though irregularly, and at a much later period, and we have already seen that a succe- daneous deposit of bone is occasionally effected in the dura mater. The sutures of the cranial bones are not formed as in the healthy skull, but are less serrated, and therefore more really to yield to pressure from within, which they occasionally do after they have closed, in the event of a sudden increase of the fluid. The ossifi- cation does not proceed Avith the normal regularity, but numerous centres form, and thus we meet Avith more or less ossa triquetra in the line of the sutures. In an almost similar ratio we shall find the brain altered in its relations. If the accumulation has been confined to the ventricular cavities, the entire brain will be dis- tended, and its tissue is generally found softened and pultaceous, from the fluid having infiltrated the cerebral tissues. The dis- tension may be so excessive as to reduce the hemispheres to the thickness of a sheet of paper; but more commonly the parietes give way, and allow the fluids of the two sides to combine; and the pressure may then, as in the case of Cardinal, separate the hemispheres and unfold them, “ like the leaves of a book.” It was formerly usual to speak of two forms of hydrocephalus, external and internal, the former commencing in the arachnoid outside the hemispheres, the latter Avithin the ventricles. But there is now no doubt that the disease always originates internally, and that external hydrocephalus is merely a consequence of the ventricular fluid making its way out by rupture of the cerebral substance. Hydrocephalic Fluid.—The fluid of hydrocephalus is of a limpid and transparent character, or more or less yellowish or opaque; of a specific gravity rather lower than that of the serum of the blood, and containing, therefore, a smaller amount of solid constituents. When there is any opacity, this is found to be due to granular and nucleolar matter, mingled with epithelial debris. The fluid, when tested by heat and nitric acid, presents the characters of a solution of albumen, and is found to contain chloride of sodium, soda, and traces of salts of lime and potash; and also, according to Dr. Bostock’s investigation, urea. The results of his analysis of the hydrocephalic fluid of Cardinal are embodied in the followin'* table8