130 D EGENEB AT IONS. blood, has actually undergone sucb changes as, according to the theory, it should have undergone.* Consequences and Symptoms of Lardaceous Degeneration.—the normal functions of the organs affected are, generally speaking, suspended or seriously interfered with. In the case of the kidneys there is deficient excretion of urinary substances (though there may be superabundance of water), albuminuria, and dropsy. W hen tte spleen, liver, and lymphatic glands are affected, there will ie deficient blood-formation leading to ansemia and general cachexia. The intestinal affections give rise to copious watery diarrhoea. General dropsy is a common symptom. Turpura has been traced to this condition in some cases with muck probability, haemorrhage bemg permitted by the diseased state of the vascular walls. The general consequences and symptoms are often with difficulty to be distinguished from those of the previously existing constitutional state which produced the disease, and hence diagnosis is almost confined to recognizing the affections of particular organs; but only in the case ot the kidneys, liver, and spleen is this possible. Waxy degeneration of the kidneys is made evident by a tram of symptoms to be hereafter described, which are still by no means free from ambiguity. The same alteration of the liver and spleen may be concluded from enlargement, which cannot be traced to any other of the known causes of hypertrophy, especially if there have been a history of suppuration. The simultaneous occurrence of these symptoms in distinct organs of course increases the probability ofthe diagnosis in a very high ratio. Grave and inveterate cases of this affection show no tendency to recovery, and appeal'to be inevitably fatal. Nevertheless it is extremely probable that slighter forms of the disease, which escape notice, occur and pass awav again- while some good observers assert that during the cruise of a chronic suppuration enlargement of the liver and spleen may be sometimes distinctly made out, and complde y disauoear when the primary disease gets well, in such recovery clearly depends upon removal of the determining cause. . A committee of the Pathological Potassa Soda. rhosphoric Acid. Chlorine Average of three healthy livers Average of three lardaceous livers •2821 •1319 •0948 •1902 •3295 *1981 *1073 •1664 They also found in one specimen of cd proportion of fat. Experiments than in the healthy organ, and generally anurn: ■-eo 1 1 (ibrin did not lead to any made to ascertain iW^of^eM^w^lg*,*0 definite result. (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,”