TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE INTESTINE. 603 often grow in a ring all round the bowel, which then usually be- comes constricted, though, occasionally, on the other hand, dila- tation takes place. Ulceration is produced on the mucous surface, and sometimes the growth projects into the cavity of the intestine! Extending also outwards, it infiltrates the whole wall and pene- trates to the peritoneum, where large masses are sometimes formed; so that it may be difficult to say whether the growth originated in the bowel or the peritoneum. Adhesions to neighbouring parts also formed. Under the name medullary have, doubtless, are been included many tumours which would now he called round- celled sarcoma, or lympho-sarcoma. This form of cancer is found most frequently in the rectum, next in the sigmoid flexure or other parts of the colon; very rarely in the small intestine. Scir- rhus is far commoner in the rectum than the form just described, and is only occasionally found m other parts. Its course is gene- rally the same as that of medullary, except that it forms a firm fibrous stroma, which always causes great contraction of the . bowel, and that there is beside much fibrous or muscular hvper- trophy in surrounding parts ; so that scirrhus of the rectum" may come to have a striking resemblance to scirrhus of the pylorus. Colloid cancer is more common in the intestines and peritoneum ithan anywhere else in the body. It forms fiat masses, or, some- times, complete rings, causing obstruction. In its manner of growth and consequences it agrees generally with medullary and scirrhus. According to Blebs, it is most often found at the hepatic flexure of the colon, and at the ileo-csecal valve. Cylinder- celled epithelioma is, perhaps, the commonest form of cancer in all parts of the intestine, and is very nearly allied to simple glandular tumour or adenoma. This forms tumours of moderate hardness, sometimes white, opaque, and medullary sometimes translucent, so as even to approach colloid in appear- ance. It causes great contraction of the intestine. On micro- scopical examination this form of cancer is found to be made up icmefly of cylindrical epithelium, arranged much in the same manner as m intestinal glands. We have seen it in the duodenum and in the colon. A remarkable case from the duodenum is ^escribed by Mr. Coupland (“ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiv. p. 103). secondary tumours sometimes occur in the liver and lungs, which esemble the primary in structure. Some cases of this have been * -lescnbed. as medullary. lUu or pavement-celled epithelioma is only found in the it 'ectum near the anus. An ossifying cancer from the rectum is described by Mr Wa"- ■ Pa*h- VoL xx‘ P' ^6). It appeared to be an , n° seirl'hus, but the case is of extraordinary rarity. bonserjuences of Intestinal Cancer.—When any cancerous growth uad'n Ti a-n annFlar form encircling the intestine, it produces xn.nfTu’ ?n9reasino constriction, which may advance to such an cent that the canal is reduced to the diameter of a goose or even