INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. 707 a similar condition of the adjacent viscera. It produces increased secretion of mucus, sometimes spots of extravasation, and occa- sionally such dilatations of the veins as have been termed vesical hremoirhoids. These, however, do not appear like the common little tumours of the rectum, but rather as prominent and distended vessels. Inflammation of the bladder is much more often seen in a chronic than in an acute form; this depends partly on the acute stage of the disease, in recent cases having generally subsided before death occurs, partly on the greater frequency of cystitis which is chronic from the commencement. The appearances in acute cystitis are strong vascular injection of the mucous lining, with brownish patches in the vicinity of the neck and fundus; more or less thickening of the membrane, with exudation of fibrine or pus on the surface, or foci of the latter in its substance. The mucous tissue may be ulcerated at several points, softeped, or affected by commencing gangrene. Abscesses may form in the substance of the parietes, and open either into the cavity of the bladder, or upon its external surface. Sometimes the mucous membrane is almost completely destroyed, a few shreds or filaments being the only traces remaining, while the muscular tunic is left as if cleanly 1 dissected. This is probably the result of phagedsenic ulceration. Chronic cystitis may be the condition resulting from one or more attacks of the acute form, or may be produced by the extension of urethral inflammation, or by the irritation of unhealthy urine, or ■ of calculi. Its characters are various degrees of vascular injection, i mingled with dark-reddish, slaty, or bluish-black discoloration,’ : more or less tumefaction of the mucous membrane, with secretion of mucus, or muco-pus, often in considerable quantity. Some- < times, from the irritation excited, the muscular coat becomes ■ hypertrophied and columnated ; but the more ordinary condition i in chronic cystitis, is the thickening and more or less uniform 1 induration of the parietes, which assume an homogeneous, larda- c ceous appearance, doubtless from their infiltration with exudation ' matter. It not unfrequently happens that an acute attack, or exacerbation, supervenes upon a state of chronic inflammation. • The following abridged account of the appearances which then "present themselves is taken from Rokitansky; “The bladder is ' found dilated, and filled with decomposed, intensely alkaline urine imixed up with blood of a brown colour, viscid mucus and pus’ sanies, lymph, and detached portions of mucous tissue, in the ■shape of discoloured flocculi, or larger patches.” The mucous membrane, inerusted by a deposit of amorphous and crystalline phosphates, is sometimes “of a dark-red colour, appears spongy, softened, and pultaceous, is easily detached and bleeds; when chocolate-coloured or greenish, it is found purulent, infiltrated with sa.nious matter, or converted into a friable, flocculent tissue, ■ndiich is traversed by the urinary sediment.” In some cases, the mbmucoui and muscular tunics are exposed, and are in various