836 CAEIES. cavity of the mouth; a new jaw having, in the interval, formed underneath, and not, as is usually the case, as a capsule to the necrosed part. The patient’s mouth not being of sufficient size for the extraction of the hone, he sawed it across with his own hand, and then extracted it with ease. By the erosive action of the surrounding granulations, the mass of dead hone is to some extent diminished, and its surface becomes rough ; hut this alone is never sufficient to remove a sequestrum completely. In fact, the removal of absolutely dead bone has been denied by some pathologists, who believe that the space around the sequestrum is formed entirely at the expense of the surrounding bone. This point will be discussed under “caries.” The controversy i3 a very old one. Central necrosis means necrosis commencing in the inner part and spreading outwards, layer by layer. In this case dead bone may be enclosed in a shell of the original living bone; but this form is rare, and generally the external shell is of new formation, as described. CAEIES. The name caries is used to mean substantially the same as ulceration, that is, perishing of tissue and removal of the pro- ducts; but though we generally speak of ulceration only on a surface, caries of bone may be, though rarely, central as well as superficial. Some confusion has arisen from applying the term ■specially to scrofulous and syphilitic processes, which we shall speak of separately. Superficial ulceration (says Mr. Holmes) is distinguished by the following characters:—The periosteum is loosened from the surface, and, if the disease is advanced, will be found much thickened, and converted into a villous mass of a pink colour, resembling a layer of granulations. This substance adheres very loosely to the surface of the bone, and, when lifted up from it, is found to fit into depres- sions, which seem to have been hollowed out of the bone by the agency of the granulations. The bone at a very slight depth underneath, is found, in most cases of healthy inflammation, of the ordinary consistence of cancellous tissue, which it resembles in structure even in those parts which ought to be compact. The ulcerated surface is superficially excavated, much softened, and easily broken down. The interior of carious bone is softened by inflammation, its cancelli enlarged, and filled with the products of softening and disintegration. These products are principally oil globules, blood, and other debris of the soft tissues, and granular inorganic materials having the same chemical composition as the salts of bone. Caries is generally accompanied by more or less plastic or organizable effusion in the bone in the neighbourhood of