SCARLATINAL NEPHRITIS. 694 authors. Nevertheless, cases occur in which no affection of the tubes can he discovered. In some of these there has been found to he interstitial nephritis.* In other cases all interstitial change is likewise absent, and the observer may be tempted to think there is no structural alteration. A morbid change is, however, some- times seen, to which the name of glomerulo-nephritu has been given ; that is to say, a special affection of the Malpighian bodies. The earliest observation on this subject we have found is by Dr. Bristowe,t who, in a case of scarlatinal dropsy in a boy aged six- teen, found, with doubtful changes in the tubes, undoubted changes in the Malpighian bodies, in which some exudation had taken place within the capsule, compressing the tuft of vessels. Blebs describes the whole interspace of the capsule as filled with small, somewhat angular nuclei imbedded in a finely granular mass; while on isolating the glomerulus its surface is found covered with similar nuclei. A singular case was reported by I)r. Wilks, some years ago, of renal dropsy without albuminuria, in which the Malpighian bodies alone were affected; and these were in a state of fatty degeneration, which might very well be a later stage of some such condition as is here described (“Path. Trans.” vi. 264). In more than one obscure case of scarlatinal nephritis, where no obvious changes were seen in the tubes or interstitial stroma, we have seen a very large number of nuclei on the glo- meruli, but find it difficult to estimate what should be the normal number4 It is worthy of notice that the peculiar combination of dropsy with absence of albuminuria, which occurred in some of these cases, is not uncommon in scarlatinal dropsy. This must in any case be distinguished from the transitory parenchymatous degeneration seen in scarlatina, as in other febrile diseases. Distinction of the Two Forms of Bright’s Disease.—With regard to the two forms of diseased kidney which we have described, we feel some degree of doubt as to the exact relationship they bear to each other; some regard the atrophied kidney as the more advanced condition of the enlarged one, others consider the two as distinct varieties. We strongly incline to the latter opinion, and to the belief that the enlarged degenerated kidney possesses pathological affinities or analogies with phthisis and the class of scrofulous maladies, while the contracted eminently granular kidney is allied to such changes as those seen in cirrhosis of the liver, and con- traction and thickening of the cardiac valves. Between the two forms, of which we have tried to give a typical description, of course there are very numerous intermediate or mixed ones which the student must expect to find. Combination of different Kidney Diseases.—When the two types of Bright’s disease just described are combined, the usual course * Cayley, “ Trans. Path. Soe.” vol. xxi. p. 259, pi. vi. Fig. 8. + “ Trans. Path. Soc.” vol. viii. p. 285. t Cases hearing on this subject in Beer, “Die Bindesubstanz der Menschliehen Niere,” 1859.