ACTIVE HYPEE.35MIA—DETEEMINATION OF BLOOD. o8 starting-point of the change has to he sought away from the part affected. We must first, however, notice simple removal of ■pres- sure as an immediate and certain cause of active hypersemia. One instance of this is the removal of atmospheric pressure from the skin, in the operation of cupping. This acts, doubtless, simply by diminishing resistance to the passage of the blood, the motive force remaining the same. Nervous influences may also dimi- nish resistance by lowering the tension of the arterial muscles. Section of the sympathetic, as has been shown by innumerable experiments, produces an immediate relaxation of the vascular walls and dilatation of their channels. Section of other nerves of the cerebro-spmal system has the same effect, probably because they contain fibres (vasomotor) derived from the sympathetic. This has been seen, for instance, after injury or experimental division of the ulnar, or of the fifth cranial nerve; that is to say, both in sensori-motor, or mixed, and in purely sensory nerves. Another important form of local hypersemia is compensatory or collateral hypersemia. W11on an arterial branch is blocked up. the parts supplied by it are at first anaemic, from diminished supply of blood; but the collateral circulation, by means of anas- tomosing branches, soon becomes established. Small branches in the surrounding parts become dilated to a large size, capillaries become as large as arteries, and thus the parts surrounding the region immediately supplied by the obstructed arterial branch become hypersemic. But the process may go farther still, and, as shown by Cohnheim, in consequence of regurgitation from the veins, the precise territory supplied by the obstructed arterial branch may become hypereemic. This fact, which appears para- doxical, has now been clearly established by the experiments of Cohn, Feltz, Savory, Cohnheim, and others, as regards small arterial branches or capillaries. In the obstruction of large arteries, such as those of the limbs, it is not seen, the collateral circulation being inadequate. As, however, the blood remains stagnant, and is or becomes venous in character, the active hyper- emia is really passive hypersemia, or congestion, and leads to other changes. Relations between the Blood and the Tissues.—While admitting the reality of all these causes, we must regard it as far too exclusive and onesided a view to consider only the blood and the vessels as the agents concerned in hypersemia, the common initi- atory step of inflammation, and to deny to the essential elements of the part any share in the production of a state by which they are so importantly affected. We therefore recognize an increased attraction of the blood towards the part which is stimulated, as one cause of active hypersemia, aud the principal, and we regard the dilatation of the arteries as a secondary, but not unimportant. But the influence which the tissues exert on the circulation, in virtue of their “nutritive power,” we may be sure is not only an attraction which may be increased or diminished, but also an