INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 403 I precautions that have since been adopted have almost banished the 'disease.* Thus, while in 1846 there were 459 deaths among 3,354 : females, in 1848, after the employment of chlorinated solutions by • the medical attendants for their own purification, had been intro- duced, the deaths in 3,356 patients had sunk to the comparatively - small number of 45. In many cases of phlebitis and pyramic infec- ■ tion resulting from venesection, the effect has been traced to a ^similar cause, viz., the introduction of poisonous matter into the v vessel, either by the lancet, or by the use of foul sponges. It was nfrom its occurrence after phlebotomy that the attention of John Hunter was first drawn to the subject. For a long time the liver was supposed to be the only organ in which metastatic abscesses, as secondary suppurations used to be called, were found, and then only in connection with injuries of the brain. It was first shown by Arnott that no organ of the body is exempt from this lesion, though it occurs more frequently in the liver and the lungs, and next in order in the kidneys, the spleen, the heart, and superficial tissues, while it is met with but rarely in the ibrain and the cavities of the eye. The abscesses vary in number, but when found in one organ, we may expect to find them in others .also, and it is rare to meet with a solitary secondary deposit. -Thus, in a case that occurred at St. Mary’s Hospital, in a boy, in whom infective thrombosis and phlebitis” were brought on by an i accidental contusion, and death occurred within six days of the unjury, and three of the occurrence of any alarming symptoms, -secondary abscesses were found in the lungs, the heart, and the ddneys. Yelpeauf relates the case of an individual, in whom ' join fifteen to twenty abscesses were counted in the brain, from nght to ten in the lung, and purulent deposits were also found in -he kidneys, the spleen, and the liver. In addition to the cases of thrombosis and inflammation of indi- :vidual veins, already treated of, there are others to which it is :ight that we should especially advert. An inflammation of the umbilical vein in infants is mentioned by Kiwisch,J as occurriuo- xlmost epidemically; and Dr. Lee has also met with it coined - lently with the epidemic occurrence of metrophlebitis. The affec- ■ion generally commences between the second and fourth days, and s followed by peritonitis and icterus. Hr the adult we meet’with nflammation of the vena portce, which may occur idiopathically * by extension of inflammation from the mesenteric veins. It ias been seen resulting from a fish-bone penetrating through the I oats of the stomach, into the superior mesenteric; and the ases in which no such lesion could be discovered have been set own to metastatic irritation, to the irritation produced by spirit- ious beverages, suppressed haemorrhoids, gout, or erysipelas. The .* ^eDr- Routh on the “ Endemic Puerperal Fever at Vienna,” “ Med.-Cliir. Trans ” + “Revue M£dic.,” 1826, vol. x. p. 442. t “Die Krankheiten der Wochuerinnen,” Prag1. 1840, vol. i. p. 112