573 CAITOER 01’ THE STOMACH. true the typical alveolar structure remains that we can net a tr notion of its nature. The condition of the lymphatic elands is also important, since these are not affected in cases of chronic induration. Rokitansky enumerates, as distinguishing smns of cancer, the preponderating increase of substance in the submucous cellular tissue, and its want of uniformity, the accompanying cartilaginous hardness and closeness of texture, the fusion with the mucous and muscular coats, and particularly the alteration in the muscular tissue itself We think the microscope, in practised hands, would generally clear up all doubt. When loculi of cell substance are mingled with the fibrous tissue, there can be little hesitation m regarding the growth as cancerous. If the structure is purely fibrous attention must be directed to the limitation of the disease, and to the existence of the infiltrating, softening and contaminating properties of cancer. There is, we are persuaded, a form of fibrous induration of the ?£’ accompanied by great hypertrophy of the walls and con- ti action of the orifice, which is quite unconnected with cancer In tais change the arterial branches are usually very atheromatous’ and we have seen fatal haemorrhage resulting from the rupture of such a vessel, borne authorities, as Dr. Wilson Fox1 are JSS£ t0 r6gard these as cases of “bsolete or degenerated Meduhttry or Encephaloid.—TYie encephaloid form of cancer somehmes occurs as a sort of development of scirrhus, appearing lnirlU>!gUS 01 CUC^ e'°0I“b-hke bleeding excrescences. Encepha- oid, however either m the form of knotted tumours, or deeenera tion of the submucous tissue, or infiltration of new-formed IrectRo hssue, sometimes occurs primarily. It forms soft whitish masses th a tendency to softening and breaking down. The micro’ imT,Cal StlUCtU1° S1hof8 lo<:uli, with numerous small cells more uniform m size and shape than those of scirrhus, and accoidnm to some observers, resembling those of the peptic glands It it iess confined to the pyloric extremity than scirrhus. & 0jjdinary flat-celled epithelioma, formed from pavement epithelium, does not occur in the stomach excent ^ Sr™ *'°m Sl » »»« »relyTomXPm„utt emthoHn, mlpbt be expected from the non-existence of pavement StT stomach. Cylinder-celled epithelioma ^see pa-e ,0n,^e °tber hand, sometimes occurs and appears to be Md .•.produciiou i» dj^at ,»rt8 have beTotervti elsewwlCa+nCe-’-affe?^ the sto,TI'K'h, behaves much as it does re, i originates, as the other species geneia’.ly do, in the