8G2 SYPHILITIC TUMOURS OF BOXE. tions of a syphilitic, scorbutic, and arthritic character, and cases are recorded of extreme fragility as a mere result of old age; it is not, therefore, inconsistent to assume that, when accompanying carcinomatous affections, it may he sometimes the result of an atrophic state resulting from mal-nutrition, without being neces- sarily accompanied by any actual carcinomatous disease of the bone. That bone cancers, or malignant sarcomata, may give rise to secondary formations in other organs, especially in the lungs, follows from the general principles before laid down. Such secondary tumours are sometimes ossified, and sometimes not. TUBERCLE IX BOXE. The presence of tubercle in bone is an undoubted pathological fact, but its frequency has been over-estimated by some authors, as it has been underrated by others. In the former case the error has arisen from every evidence of osseous disease in scrofulous subjects having been regarded as actually resulting from the deposit of tubercular matter in the bone, and from concrete pus having produced appearances closely resembling those presented by tubercle in a certain stage of decay. We have already pointed out that there is no evidence that such cheesv masses were ever tubercles; but it is fair to say that they have not often been proved not to be so; and it remains to be seen wh it improved methods of investigation may establish, with regard to the tubercular origin of some of them. Grey miliary tubercles are very rarely seen; not often even in cases of general tuberculosis, though it must be remembered that the bones are seldom examined in this disease. According to MM. Cornil and Eanvier, who have made special researches on this subject, miliary tubercles are found in the spongy tissue, more especially of the vertebrae, the sternum, and the ribs. They describe isolated granulations and also confluent granulations; the latter forming a species of infiltration. SYPHILITIC TUMOURS OF BOXE. Nodes or gummata occur most frequently in the periosteum, that is, in the subperiosteal layer, already spoken of, as the result of a chronic inflammation. They form distinct elastic swellings, some- times so hard as to simulate bony growth ; actual bone is not often found in them, though it has been seen in nodes on the tibia. On cutting into them they are found to be composed of a yellow trans- lucent elastic substance, sometimes yielding a thick gummy fluid, tho minute characters of which have already been described. This