237 MENINGITIS. been given them, and we should be inclined to attribute to them no higher importance than that belonging to warty indurations on the surface of the body Luschka, who has especially investigated the Pacchionian bodies, confirms this view, and describes them as cactus-like projections from the arachnoid, of a fibrous organiza- tion, vascular, and covered by a scanty epithelium. He regards them as normal constituents of the membrane, but states that the hypertrophy to which they are liable may be the cause of death by the pressure they occasion. According to Axel Key and Eetzius, they are of great importance in regulating the amount of the subarachnoid fluid, being, in fact, the channels by which the excess of this passes into the veins. Other new formations of fibrous tissue are sometimes met with, occurring in a more diffuse form, and producing fibrous masses, which may resemble cartilage in appearance though not in struc- ture. Bony plates are formed in the arachnoid, sometimes as a consequence of inflammation, over the seat of an abscess or focus of softening; sometimes without any obvious cause; in other cases they appear to be ossifications of fibrous thickenings. Small epithelial growths and the fatty masses called steatoma, which are also probably of epithelial origin, are occasionally found bn the arachnoid, but have little importance. Pigment is sometimes found in considerable quantity in the pia mater and arachnoid, with or without melanotic tumours; some- times associated with pigmentary changes in other parts. Mela- notic tumours are distinguished by Virchow* from the groups of melanotic sarcomata and melanotic cancers, and resemble some of those found within the eyeball and on the skin. MENINGITIS. Arachnitis is a term used synonymously with meningitis, to designate inflammation of the arachnoid and the pia mater. The nosologist may at the desk draw numerous fine distinctions, and classify symptoms so as to produce a uniform system of morbid processes, but Nature does not bind herself to laws of this descrip- tion—a remark which applies forcibly to the attempts made to dissever inflammation of the visceral plate of the arachnoid from inflammation of tho subjacent pia mater. Whether in the course of pathological research we shall be justified in establishing more _ minute divisions than we are now able to do is not the question; but wo deem it especially our duty throughout this work to place before the student of pathology facts which we may recognize in the dead-house from their having beon previously observed by trustworthy inquirers, rather than to show him a maze of systems which have long been the opprobrium of scientific medicine. • “ Die ICrankhaften GesolmUlste,” vol. ii, p. 119. Pjg8.12s, 129