439 THE LARYNX. • tilages. His experience is strikingly at variance with that of Louis, who has not in a single instance met with tuberculous granulations in the substance, or on the surface of the epiglottis, larynx, or •:trachea. Dr. Watson attributes the ulcers of the larynx occim-ing in phthisis exclusively to the acridity of the sputa, but although ithe sputa manifestly exercise an influence in their production, there ■ must be some further cause, as they are by no means constant i accompaniments of phthisis; and as they do not form at some ; points, e.g., the ventricles of the larynx, in which a lodgment of - sputa must constantly take place. Louis states ulcers in the .larynx to have occurred in a fourth part of his cases. Forster, who gave much attention to this subject, thought that the doubts which had been expressed as to the nature of true tubercular disease in the larynx, had arisen from want of minute microscopical investigation. He regarded the ulcers as arising either from the necrosis of groups of miliary tubercles, or else from a dif- fuse infiltration. Virchow states that when a tubercle is situated superficially in a mucous membrane, its decay begins from the out- side till it falls out leaving an ulcer. The absence of yellow gra- nular or cheesy matter, which has led some to deny the analogy of this morbid process with tubercular phthisis, is to be explained by the rapid and early removal of the degenerated products. As to the situation of the ulcers, Forster* found among fifty carefully inves- tigated cases, sixteen in which they were confined to the posterior commissure, and eight more in which the posterior commissure and posterior wall were the only parts affected, while in most of the others the affected area was more extensive. This shows a marked predilection of the posterior half of the larynx to this disease. In fifteen out of fifty cases, the trachea was likewise affected. This affection is almost always secondary to pulmonary phthisis; as a primary disease, it is exceedingly rare. This lends some support to a modification of the older view, that these ulcerations were produced by the sputa from a phthisical lung; since such pro- . ducts are admitted to be capable of producing tubercles by local infection. In children, ulceration of the air passages is scarcely ever met with ; Dr. Westf has only seen it once in early life; on that occa- sion, several small excavated erosions were found, just above the chord® vocales, in a child of twenty months, besides a general red- ness of the bronchial tubes. In the larynx their site is generally at the junction of the vocal chords, on the vocal chords themselves, and on the arytenoid cartilages. Affections of deeper parts of the Larynx.—The submucous tissue, the cartilages and their perichondrium, are often affected by exten- sion of disease from the mucous membrane, especially in cases of * “Handbueh tier Path. Anat.,” vol. ii. p. 320. 2nd edition, 1863 a A,iTj1!.,erC,ular ulc.eration larynx in a case of general tuberculosis occurring in a child aged seven is reported m the “ Pathological Transactions” for 18S9 vol xx p. 33.