136 NEW GROWTH OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. posed principally of smooth muscular fibre with some connective tissue, formerly called fibroid, are better classed with muscular tumours. The texture of true fibrous tumours is firm and tough, often grating under the knife; their surface is glistening and smooth; the colour white, reddish white, or greyish red. Thittle fluid is seen on the cut surface; what there is, is usually albuminous, .[hey generally yield gelatine on boiling. In size they vary verv greatly; some are extremely small, while some have been seen a toot or more in diameter, being among the largest of all tumours. They differ much in their degree of connection with neighbouring parts, being sometimes blended with these by continuity^of tissue, but more often separated by a clear line of demarcation. Fibrous tumours develop themselves in very different parts of the body; usually in such as normally contain much fibrous tissue. They originate from the skin and subcutaneous connective tissue of the trunk and extremities; sometimes in enormous number. Cutaneous fibrous tumours are sometimes pedunculated, and under this head must be placed the growths known as molluseum fibrosum. In other organs they almost always occur singly (if we leave out of consideration the so-called fibrous tumours of the uterus). They arise from fascia, from the periosteum (as in some forms of epulis); from the sheath of nerves (forming one kind of so-called neuroma) ; from bone ; also in some glandular organs as in the kidney and mammae ; and genuine tumours of this class sometimes occur in the uterus. Fibrous tumours are subject to several kinds of metamorphosis. Cretifieation is not unfrequent, and may either commence indif- ferently at any part, proceeding until the whole is converted into a calcareous mass, or it may be in great measure limited to the peripheral stratum, which it thus converts into a kind of shell, enclosing the rest. The calcareous degeneration affects tumours of very different size, and does not bear any relation to the age of the growth. The formation of true bone is less common, but has been observed in cases of fibrous epulis. Pigment is sometimes abundantly deposited, and is said to proceed from antecedent haemorrhage. Cyst-like cavities, filled with clear fluid, are occasionally found in fibrous tumours, constituting thus a fibro-cystic variety. Inflammation may occur, characterized by injection of the part, production of inflammatory cells, and sometimes by the formation of an abscess. Fibrous tissue is not unfrequently combined with some other growth in the formation of a tumour. In this way there result mixed forms, such as the fibro-fatty tumour, or fibroma lipomatodes. fibro- myxoma, fibro-myoma, and fibro-sareoma. The signification will appear when we have described the corresponding forms of simple tumours. Fibro-cellular Tumour.—This name is given to tumours composed of loose delicate forms of connective tissue, where the fibrous bundles leave considerable intervening spaces, filled with fluid.