OSTEOMYELITIS AND OSTITIS. 831 gional formation of bone in the connective tissue near bone, though unconnected with it. These detached bony masses are called paros- tenl by Virchow. They may be compared with the islands of bone sometimes found in the tumours of the jaw called epulis (p. 536). Specific Forms of Periostitis.—Syphilis produces certain special forms of periosteal inflammation; others are attributed to rheu- matism ; and another has, from its indolent and degenerative character, received the name of scrofulous. The rheumatic and syphilitic forms chiefly affect the more super- ficial parts; the periosteum of the skull, the sternum, and. the tibia being the points most commonly attacked. Syphilitic in- flammation, or at least that which occurs in the course of syphilis, whether as a result of the virus or of the mercurial treatment, is apt to occur in numerous detached spots, at which tumefaction, in- duration, the formation of new osseous matter, sometimes leading to considerable thickening, and necrosis present themselves. The periosteal gummata will be spoken of in detail further on. Rheu- matic periostitis is more likely to occur in the vicinity of the joints, and is acute in its character. Chronic, so-called rheumatic, affec- tions have been described in speaking of joints. The strumous or scrofulous form of periostitis is that frequently met with in cachectic and scrofulous subjects ; it is of a sluggish character, causing greater thickening of the membrane and closer adhesion to the bone, followed by suppuration in the tissue, and underneath or upon it. Scrofulous periostitis is sometimes fol- lowed by exfoliations of the subjacent bone ; in these cases, there appears to be generally a coincident formation of new bone, suffi- cient to prevent not only a loss of strength, but even a deformity. One of the forms of so-called scrofulous periostitis not unfre- quently met with is that giving rise to the severer forms of panaritium or whitlow, the periosteum of the phalanges being the seat of inflammatory action. OSTEOMYELITIS AND OSTITIS. Osteomyelitis.— By this term is meant inflammation of the red osseous medulla and of the pulp contained in the cancelli of spongy bone, since these two are essentially the same structure. The constitution of the red pulp has only lately been carefully investi- gated. It is found to resemble in some respects the splenic pulp, being composed of lymphoid corpuscles and vascular tissue, which is callable of great and variable distension. It also contains large compound, or myeloid cells. It is probable that this is also one of the seats of formation of white blood corpuscles. By absorp- tion of fat it passes into the yellow medulla. With reference to its pathological appearance, it is im- portant to remember that simple redness or vascularity does not always indicate inflammation, since this is seen in some bones