VARIETIES OF HYPEREMIA. 47 • resume readily their proper calibre. This condition of atonic con- , gestion is often seen in the conjunctiva after it has suffered an ■ attack of acute inflammation; and we can scarce have a more ■ valuable lesson than the observation of such cases, and of the icedentia and juvantia offered us. A case of this kind is related in 'Mr. Tyrrell’s work, on “Diseases of the Bye,” vol. i. page 24, ■ which from the first time we read it never passed from our mind ; i and often has the valuable instruction it conveyed been the means i of directing us to successful treatment. Again, besides actual i inflammation over-use of a part may occasion relaxation and i congestion of its vessels. Of this we have an instance in the i congestion of the choroid, which is so common in those who i exert their eyes very much upon minute objects. Also in the i extravasations met with in. fatal cases of tetanus and chorea, in i the brain and spinal cord, of which the rationale seems to he that • the exhausted state of the nervous tissue has involved the minute ■ vessels, and destroyed their retentive power. Additional Causes of Congestion.—The influence of cold in pro- ducing congestions of internal organs cannot he doubted. To this we must ascribe, in part, the prevalence of chest affections during the colder part of the year, the blood being repelled inward from the surface by the constringing effect of the cold upon the vessels. The same cause also must he the chief agent in occasioning attacks of apoplexy, which have been observed to be greatly more fre- quent during a very cold season than during a mild one. The effect of the malarious poison in producing congestions of the internal organs is still more potent than that of cold. With every paroxysm the liver and spleen become greatly distended during the cold stage; and to such an extent may this take place that the latter organ, extensible as it is, has been ruptured, and fatal hiemorrhage ensued. Posture is a very efficient cause in producing congestion. It has already been alluded to, when instancing the pulmonary congestions that occur in fever; hut the most marked examples of its effects are seen in the lower limbs. Here the returning venous current has to overcome the force of gravity, and though while the vessels maintain their tonicity, and the valves of the veins are efficient, this retarding force does not pro- duce any effect, yet when the conditions are altered it becomes speedily manifest. Persons of feeble constitution, who are obliged to remain for the greater part of their time in an upright position, labouring hard, and living poorly, are exceedingly liable to a con- gested, thickened, and indurated state of the integuments of the lower part of the legs and feet. The veins proceeding from these parts—and especially the large superficial veins of the limb—are seen tortuous, enlarged, distended, and varicose. They are evidently gorged with slowly-moving blood, the column of which, greatly enlarged in bulk, has much more difficulty in resisting the force of gravity than in the natural state. Such congestions pro- ceed very soon to ulceration, which is apt to assume a sloughing