585 INFLAMMATION OF TIIE INTESTINE. folds and polypi.” (3) Hypertrophy of the submucous cellular tissue and of the muscular coat. (4) Profuse secretion of a grey- ish-white and milky, or of a transparent gelatinous and viscid mucus.” Suppuration and ulceration sometimes result from catarrhal inflammation, especially when an acute attack super- venes upon the chronic form. “ The mucous membrane is con- verted into a dark-red, granulated, and friable tissue, on the surface of and within which suppuration is established.” The burrowing of the ulcers, so as to pass through even the muscular coat, gives rise to sinuses, in the vicinity of which there is often a production of polypoid growths from the mucous membrane. Corrugation of, and pigmentai-y deposit in, the tissues, are constant accompaniments of this process. Cicatrization of the ulcers and sinuses takes place, with formation of the usual fibroid tissue, which by its subsequent contraction may give rise to puckering or obstruction. Parts affected by Catarrhal Inflammation.— Eokitansky states that the most usual seat of catarrhal inflammation is in the ciecum and rectum; we doubt if this is true, if applied both to the acute and chronic forms, for there can be no doubt that, in the majority of instances of muco-enteritis, the small intestines are affected even to a greater degree than the large. He observes himself ‘' that catarrhal irritation, and even inflammation, undoubtedly often affect the duodenal mucous membrane, and are frequently in- duced by an anomalous condition of the bile.” This condition, as Dr. Stokes has observed, “may extend to the biliary ducts and give rise to jaundice. Desides the tumefaction of the mucous membrane, the increased pouring out of mucus, and the enlarge- ment of the glands of Brunner in this situation, we have noticed an atiophy or destruction of the villi, which had lost their sharp exterior margin of limitary membrane, and were shreddy and wasted. The chronic form of catarrhal inflammation does seem to be more frequent in the large intestine; at least, the slaty and black discoloration is more often seen in the ctccum than else- where, but it may admit of some doubt whether this discoloration is a certain sign of previous inflammation, whether a deposit of pigment may not take place here as in the areolar tissue of the lung, or in the skin, without any disease. We have certainly examined instances in which the microscope showed nothing the feast abnormal, except the pigmentary deposit. Affections of the Intestinal Glands. — It seems very doubtful whether there is a distinct affection such as that which has been termed glandular or follicular enteritis. Dr. Copland speaks of it us occurring almost alwip§» consecutively to other diseases as levers continued or remittent, dysentery, and even tuberculosis, rtoxitansky does not seem to recognize its special character, but to consider that the follicles may be more particularly affected in morbid processes of different kinds. In this opinion we entirely coincide, but wish to notice here certain points in the anatomical