114 PYEMIA AND SEPTICEMIA. tlie fineness of the obstructing substance, but on its Dature, •whether capable of exciting infiammation or not. Theory of Pycemic Abscesses.—From the experimental results before stated has been deduced the theory of the origin of Pycemic abscesses, now generally adopted, at least, as regards the lung*-- viz., the embolic theory. It is this: that some solid matters capable of exciting inflammation pass from the veins of the part primarily inflamed into the pulmonary artery, and there produce arterial or capillary embohsm, followed by inflammation and abscess, brnular, but not identical processes, lead to suppuration in other parts. The morbific material is believed to be disintegrated fibrin derived from the breaking down of clots in the veins of the affected part. that is, from thrombosis. , , ,, rt This is, however, not to be taken as a complete theory of PVEemia. It simply explains the occurrence of disease at particular parts of the body, and in a particular order, by the distribution of morbid material; but does not tell us what the disease is, or what is its materies morbi. We shall now apply this theory to the explanation of the most striking points in the morbid anatomy ot VY characteristic Lesions.— The lesions which characterize pyaemia are, in Dr. Bnstowe’s words, “local congestions, extravasations ot blood, inflammatory deposits, abscesses, and necroses. Congestion is a real and important link m the chain of pysemic e™nts; extra- vasations of blood are almost always found, either as peteclual spois or as infiltrations in the substance of organs forming blocks or in- farctions ; inflammation is never absent and true abscesses hardly ever • though some of what are called abscesses should be regarded al more strictly due to necrosis. The appearances m the lungs are the most important. Here we find (1) blocks which m their early sta°-e much resemble haemorrhagic infarctions, and are some- times actually apoplectic; (2) sometimes merely inflammatory masses or blocks of lobular pneumonia. Both these seem liable to soften and break down, forming abscesses or nuriform fluid; but the latter very often consisting of debris ol tissue oily particles, and disintegrating cell forms, without any true pus. The hemorrhagic blocks may also be seen m staves of involution, decolorized and softened, so as to forn The outer part ot hbM audsou;. »r- rounding tissue is always, m both lands of blocks^ gested and inflamed. This appearance of a surrounded by a zone of intense hyperemia, is very characterise of pyemic blocks ; the pleura covering them mialso i The cavities thus formed may come to b° 8ome abscesses may occasionally be formed (as i * universal, more rapid process; but the occurrence of P important and can hardly be called very common. Another ^ mg point is the condition of the pulmonary vessels ^ ultimate arterial twigs distributed to the masses of diseased luuc struc