ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE VAGINA. 747 woman, who had never borne children, and had died of pneumonia and pericarditis, was completely divided in the mesial line by a strong, dense, fibrous septum, extending from the external opening to the uterus. Thus two vagime existed; each vagina led to a distinct os uteri, both of which were small; the neck of the uterus was rather longer than usual, the body smaller; the uterus itself was nearly divided into two cavities, by a septum in the mesial line. Occlusion, or stricture of the vagina, sometimes occurs as a result of external injury or of cicatrization of ulcers. The rigidity or laxness of the walls varies much in different subjects, according to the general habit and the amount of secretion from the glandular apparatus surrounding the vagina. The great capability of the vagina for extension is best shown in parturition ; hence it is not to be wondered at that prolonged uterine or vesical disease should induce a very lax state of the mucous membrane of the vagina, which, as it often does, becomes a source of extreme distress and inconvenience to the patient. In old women we often meet with this relaxed condition, which may amount to a complete prolapsus. The anterior wall is particularly prone to be thus affected. Dr. Golding Bird * has pointed out that this lesion gives rise to a foetid, phosphatic, and mucous state of the urine in elderly females, owing to an accumulation of the urine in the prolapsed bladder lying in a pouch of the anterior vaginal wall. He shows that it may be the source of great irritability of the bladder and incontinence of the urine, which is best relieved by frequent catheterism, so as entirely to empty the bladder. In prolapsus of the uterus the mucous membrane of the vagina is necessarily dragged down with the * descent of that organ. Injuries.—The vagina and the external organs are exposed to ! mechanical injuries of various kinds, and, in certain medico-legal i questions, it requires care to determine their exact nature, as well as ! to avoid confounding the menstrual discharge with haemorrhage re- i suiting from injury. Parturition frequently gives rise to laceration t and severe contusions of these parts. The inferior portion of the (canal, either from unusual rigidity, or from want of proper care on the ] part of the attendant, is apt to give way when the labour pains are at their climax; and the lesion may vary from a mere laceration of tthe fourchette to a rupture of the entire perinseum, from the vagina 'to the anus. It may happen as a very rare accident that the : perimeum is perforated without the rent extending into the : natural opening of the vulva. Laceration of the upper portions of :the vagina also occurs to a varying extent, in conjunction with, or independently of, rupture of the uterus. A small laceration is not : necessarily fatal. Boss t reports the case of a woman who was t twice the subject of an accident of the kind, and each time re- • “ Medical Times and Gazette,” January 1st, 1853. t Dr-Francis H. Kamsbotham gives this and other illustrative instances in his Principles and Practice of Obstetric Medicine and Surgery,” p. G03. London, 1841.