846 RHACHITIS, OR RICKETS. and thirty-four occurred between the ages of four and twelve; 148 were males, and 198 females. The alleged congenital occurrence of rickets requires confirmation. Before any distinct changes in the skeleton take place, other symptoms of cachexia are seen, admirably described by Sir W. Jenner,* in his classical Lec- tures on Rickets, but which do not concern us here. The alterations of bony struc- tures are chiefly the follow- ing:—(1) Enlargement of the ends of the long bones, that is, of the end of the diaphysis next to the cartilage, in the bones of the limbs ; of the part next to the costal cartilages in the ribs. (2) General softening of all the bones. (3) Thickening of the flat bones, i.e., the bones of the skull, the scapulte, and the pelvic bones, (4) Deformities, produced by mechanical causes acting on the softened bones, such as curvatures of the spine and the long bones, and altera- tions in the shape of the thorax and pelvis. (5) Arrest of growth, both of the bones and of parts anatomically or physiologically correlated to them. (1) The enlargement of the ends of the bones may be con- siderable. In one of Sir ~W. Jenner’s cases the circumference of the wrist was equal to the length of the forearm, each being 41 inches (in a child 30 inches high; three years and two months old). The parts thus enlarged are normally somewhat prominent in children, in consequence of the process of ossification which is going on; but the rickety enlargement is generally characteristic. The adjacent cartilage is always somewhat enlarged also on the side next the bone. (2) There is, undoubtedly, some general softening of the bones, due apparently to a deficiency of lime, and by this their curvature is made possible. Virchow, however, alleges that any consider- able curvature in the shaft is always due to some fracture. Rickety bones have been found to contain only 21 per cent, of • “ Medical Times and Gazette,” 1860, vol. i. Pig. 192. Section cut with a knife of the femur of a rickety child. The shaft consists throughout of cartilaginous and gelati- nous substances, intermixed and disposed in cells ; it is observable that a greater quantity of cartilage exists in the middle of the shaft and towards the interior curve than at any other part. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, i. 34.)