CHAPTER XIY. THE SPIN AH COED. The forms of disease and their effects, which present themselves in the spinal cord, closely resemble those we meet with in the brain. The spinal cord does not appear to he so often attacked as the encephalon, and as we have already pointed out, it is the part which is generally left unexamined, unless attention is forcibly directed to it by the previous symptoms of the patient; for both reasons the records of its pathological states are much more scanty than those regarding the brain, and future inquirers have yet a laro-e field to explore. The evanescent character of congestion rarely allows of its being demonstrated after death; though it is impossible to believe that there should not be accumulation of blood in the cord in those instances in which the symptoma de- monstrate intense irritation of the part, as in tetanus. A case ol hydrophobia is recorded by Dr. Bright, m which a blush of was perceived in the cineritious part of the spinal cord opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae. An anremic condition of the cord is as difficult to demonstrate as its converse, though here too the practitioner will not fail to suggest instances in which As existence may be fairly assumed during life. Both states manifest themselves in the secondary effects of hypertrophy and_ atroj These may be general or local; the former affection belongs* chiefly to early hfe, and the latter, like the corresponding con- dition in the brain, to old age. A trophy of the spinal cord, except as the consequc ce of som^ special disease, is not very common It is sal,d. accompany atrophy of the brain m old age ; and is usually attendee Se degree of induration. It also occurs in middle hfe, in the case of those who are compelled to Pnss limbf recumbent posture ; or m whom, from any ^l^J Xphyof are little used. The editor has observed unmn.taheab e at, op J the cord in the case of a man who had been afflicted smce m^ & with double talipes equinus. Atrophy of pat cula * often caused by injury, pressure of displaced vertebia,i lof or inflammatory products, as soon in Fig. t • 1 .