64 CAUSES OF HEMORRHAGE. ye wteessed of cystic disease of the kidney, in which several large dark ciots were contained in a cyst of extraordinary magnitude, lne fibrine, and other residue of the extravasation, together with broken-up fragments of the tissue, are gradually reabsorbed, the solid substances undergoing liquefaction, chiefly in the way of tatty transformation. Formation of Cysts.—A further change may take place, not so much m the effused blood, as in the parts around it. These, which are at first ragged and torn, undergo more or less inflammation, which ends in the effusion of a solidifying blastema; this fibril- lates, and passes into the state of more or less perfect fibrous or areolar tissue, and thus forms a capsule or cyst, enclosing the now more or less altered blood. Rokitansky describes the cyst as bein°- lined by a coloured, soft, gelatinous, loosely-adherent layer, formed from the coagulum, which, at a later period, by fibrillating, and even developing vessels, assumes very much the aspect of a delicate serous membrane. The contents of the cyst may be a gelatinous or serous fluid alone, or with more or less traces of a vascularized areolar tissue. In some cases absorption takes place completely, and the cavity is obliterated by the adhesion of the opposite sides, and the formation of a linear cicatrix. This, however, is not the most frequent issue, in consequence of the following impediments : —(1) a large size of the cyst; (2) retraction of the surrounding tissue, depending partly on its atrophy, partly on its induration*; (3) the deposition of the fibrine, either as a central lumpy mass, or as a thickish, peripheral, capsulating layer. Hcematoma.—The effused blood-mass may undergo a different kind of change, in consequence of absorption of its watery parts, and become, in this way, a kind of tumour, termed an hsematoma.' classed with new growths; but there is no doubt that it is a simple result of haemorrhage, and this for three reasons:—(1) that it presents no higher structural character than that of fibrine ; (2) that it is generally devoid of vessels; (3) that it does not appear to increase by growth in the proper sense of the term. The blood remains in these masses uncoagulated for a longer or shorter time. The inner parts ultimately undergo some form of degeneration, while the outer form a fibrous investment. Hoematomata occur in serous and synovial cavities, beneath fibrous and mucous membranes, in parenchymatous organs, in the muscular masses of the limbs, in the substance of certain new products, especially encephaloid cancers, and in cavities accidentally formed in the tissues, as in tuberculous cavities of the lungs. An hcematoma thus formed being essentially a fibrinous mass, may undergo certain other changes; saline earthv matter may be deposited in it. inducing a state which is more cor- rectly named cretification, than ossification ; melanic pigment mav probably also form in it. It may, perhaps, undergo a development to the somewhat higher stage of fibrous tumour, and it is said that even true bone may be formed within it. A vascular plexus