DIVERTICULA OE THE INTESTINE. 577 the ileum, from one to three feet above the ileo-ctecal valve. It is from half an inch to six inches long, resembling the intestine in structure, with its walls, composed of all the three coats, and cylindrical or very bluntly conical in form; its cavity, equal to, greater or less than that of the intestine. It usually proceeds from the convex side of the intestine, or that remote from the mesentery. The explanation we have given of this curious structure was first suggested by Meckel, whose views, after much-controversy, are now generally accepted. When the extremity of the diverticulum 1 still remains attached to the umbilicus by a fibrous cord, this may : give rise to strangulation of a loop of intestine and fatal obstruc- : tion. Four specimens, showing obstruction from this cause are i preserved in the Gruy s Hospital Museum ; and one is described by t ih"- Milks in the “Pathological Transactions” (vol. xvi. p. 126). . Fatal ulceration and perforation of such an appendix have been : seen in a case of typhoid fever. A case is recorded by Dr. Lionel i Beale, the Report of the Pathological Society, for 1851-52 (vol. in. p. 366), in which, fatal peritonitis ensued from softening and perforation, caused by the lodgment of a cherry-stone and other r foreign bodies, of the lower part of a diverticulum, which was ; twice as broad there as in the upper part adjoining the intestine - ft is very conceivable, therefore, that these offsets, like the i vermiform appendix, may become sources of danger by offering a favourable situation for the lodgment of cherry-stones, or other indigestible matters. False Diverticula.— Since somewhat similar coocal appendages are found m other parts of the intestine, a distinction has been drawn between true and false diverticula. The latter name is applied to I'partwl dilatations, or hernne of the mucous membrane covered by • seJ,ous coat, such as occur also in the bladder. Rokitansky - gives the following description of the characters of “ false diverti- cula, which ho regards as mere hernias of the mucous membrane resulting from the separation of the fibres of the muscular coat.’’’ 1 fney consist solely of mucous membrane and peritoneum. They occur at any part of the small and large intestines. “ They are louud m considerable numbers. They occur from the size of a pea oo tuat of a walnut, in the shape of rouud baggy pouches of the ^cous membrane. They form, more especially in the colon ■uipp.e-sliaped appendages, which occasionally are grouped too-ether wh?n cccurnng in the small intestine, they are corn- I, jniy developed on its concave side, and are therefore placed etween the layers of the peritoneum; when in the colon the races are retained by them, and dry up into stony concretions ” condition may give rise to ulceration and fatal perforation • as iQ a case recmvlnrl W vr,. «.„i t - 1 . ’. ae was ttv!? 1®cord,-'d by Mi^Kydney Jones, where a communication as thus formed betwe^^he sigmoid flexure and the bladder. tionp. voL x- P- 131). In this case a fecal concre- 7 ‘r,lthe diverticulum was actually found in the bladder Dilatation. Uniform dilatation of the intestine may take plaeu P P