693 SCARLATINAL NEPHRITIS. tubes in similar conditions; that is, either from hyaline casts which have assumed a varicose or beaded character, as represented in Fig. 157, or from the same material originally deposited in that form. Dr. Bristowe,* in an elaborate investigation into these structures, has given reasons for both these views, either of which he considers plausible. He has found the microscopic cysts abun- dant in atrophied kidneys, and comparatively rarely associated with larger cysts. Where the former are abundant, the tubules are always atrophied, and frequently wholly deficient, so that the microscopic cysts and tubes are in inverse proportion to one another. The possible origin of cysts from tubules he explains in the following manner:—When tubules waste, their canals become narrower and narrower, their walls thinner and thinner, till at length they are altogether lost in the surrounding tissue; at the same time they lose their epithelium, and often contain waxy or granular matter. Now, if this obliteration, instead of occurring simultaneously in the whole length, occurred at irregular intervals, producing a moniliform condition of the tubes, and leaving a series of ovoid cavities, there would be cysts, such as those in question ; and further, they would be likely to accumulate within them some of the secretions of the tubes, and thus become distended into globular bodies, which might contain all those varieties of contents which are found in diseased tubules. The other explanation, that cysts are formed from contents of tubes, Dr. Bristowe regards as supported by the following considerations: (1.) The contents of the cysts resemble those of tubes, being sometimes waxy, sometimes faintly granular, sometimes thickly studded with oil globules, sometimes presenting an epithelial lining, and in one instance containing apparently disintegrated blood. (2.) In cases where casts were present, as well as cysts, linear series of casts were observed within the tubules, some elongated, some ovoid, others globular and, as far as could be seen, identical with cysts. Either view accounts for the presence of cysts in atrophied kidneys and the apparent absence of tubes in the cystic portions.—Ed.] Urine in Granular Kidney.—There is nothing very characteristic of the urine passed from small atrophied kidneys; it is generally, however, more abundant, sometimes actually in excess, of lower specific gravity, of paler colour, less albuminous, and deposits a less quantity of epithelial sediment than that from the enlarged organ. Fibrinous casts will rarely be entirely absent, but often few in number; they are usually granular and small. Their quantity, and the presence or absence of blood globules, will depend very much on the degree of congestion. Scarlatinal Nephritis.—The occurrence of renal dropsy after scarlatina is known to be very common, but the precise nature of the renal change is still uncertain. For a long time it has been regarded as the typical form of catarrhal nephritis, or tubal nephritis of Dickinson, and is so described by the majority of • “Trans. Path. 8oc.,” vol. ix. p. 309, pi. x.