ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. 268 generally, it must be mainly sought for in changes directly and primarily affecting the brain; but that peripheral affections may be followed by central disease is forcibly illustrated by the case published by Lallemand* of a soldier, who had been operated upon for aneurism of the right axillary artery. In applying the ligature, the nerve was enclosed, cerebral symptoms followed on the seventh day, and death ensued on the eighth : the post-mortem showed an abscess in the left posterior cerebral lobe. The case is also of interest, as affording proof of the uniformity of the law of crucial conduction. . ,. Softening Pf the brain is looked upon as an essentially tatal dis- ease. though there is no inherent reason why the process of resolu- tion and absorption should not be carried out within the brain as in other organs. It is probable that as our means of diagnosis become more perfect and more refined, our knowledge of this subject will also enlarge; at present we deal rather with the last stages ol the disease than with its incipient and more curable features. ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. Suppuration occurs in three forms: we find it occupying the convolutions in the shape of a ragged ulcer, varying m size from a fourpenny-piece, or less, to that of half-a-crown, or the pus is infiltrated through a large extent of cerebral tissue, causing what Dr Bright terms the diffused abscess; or again, the pus becomes limited, as in other parts of the body, by a membranous expansion, and wo then have to deal with the encysted abscess. I he con- sistence and colour of the parts in which exudation and suppuration have been effected, vary according to the extent to which the tissues are involved; the softening may be scarcely sufficient to mark a difference between the healthy and the diseased portions, and 1 may reach such a degree that the latter are perfectly diffluent: the discoloration, in the same way, will be more or less or reddened, according to the amount of suppuration the injwtnon of the blood-vessels, and the accompanying exhalation ot blood, or its colouring matter. , . ... , The greater number of cysts containing pus, that we meet w , are the result of external injury, involving the bone, as rf Mature only cared to protect, the brain from contact with external ati sphere. It was already observed by Dr. Baillie, that abscess on the surface of the brain was almost constantly the effect of extei nal vio LnSnit that it was often independent of thisi cause.when foimied at a considerable deptli within the brain and that the far the more common form. The cyst itself presents in either^ various degrees of thickness and density; the former may amount to half a lino, and the latter increase to the consistent ol le. ‘ Rccherclies Anatomioo-patliologiqucs sur l’Enei'phalc,’ *c., ■( ol. i. 1*23.