CHAPTER XXXIX. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OP THE MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. Testicles and Vasa Deferentia.—There is no sufficient evidence to show that more than two testicles ever exist. They are absent when the entire sexual apparatus is wanting, and in some rare cases they are imperfectly formed, or one only may exist. An apparent absence of one or both glands at birth is not very unfre- quent, the descent of the organ being arrested or delayed, so that it lies in the groin, the inguinal canal, or the lower part of the abdomen. It may happen that the vas deferens exists without any trace of a properly formed testicle. If this be the case on both sides, virile power may be apparently unimpaired, though there is, of course, perfect sterility. Again, the vas deferens may be absent, and even the epididymis, while the testicle is plump and well formed, and though incapable of fulfilling its function, scarcely less than the other. The most usual and least degree ot imperfection is, that the vas deferens terminates in a blind extremity before reaching the vesicula seminalis. Retained Testis.—A defect of greater practical importance as being more common, is the imperfect descent of the testis into the scrotum. Of one hundred and three male infants examined by Wrisberg at the time of birth, seventy-three had both testicles in the scrotum, while in twenty-one one or both were in the groin, and the remainder had one or both in the abdomen. He found the imperfection more frequently on the left than on the right side, in the proportion of seven to six. Mr. Curling believes that if the descent does not take place within twelve months after birth, it is seldom fully and perfectly completed afterwards without being accompanied by hernia. The reason of this is sufficiently apparent, the pressure of the muscular walls of the abdomen must tend to cause the descent of the intestine through the open inguinal canal When the testicle is still in the abdomen at birth, it may descend' and usually does, within a few weeks (it did so in ten out of the twelve cases mentioned by Wrisberg), or it may not descend till some time before puberty, or it may not appear at all. The cause