815 MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. fourpenny piece, which was softened in texture, and roughened by small greyish prominences. The surrounding cartilage was in a commencing state of similar change. In a vertical section of the part most affected, it was seen that the cells near the free margin wei’e Fig. 188. enlarged and multiplied, while the matrix at the margin broke up into fibres of various size, quite separate from each other, the larger still imbedding some of the cells. The accompanying cut illustrates this degeneration of cartilage. Ulceration of cartilage, occurring as an acute or subacute affection, in various articular inflammations, has been much inquired into, and our knowledge respecting it has become tolerably definite and exact. It was formerly much disputed whether the change was effected by the action of the vessels of the cartilage itself, or those of the synovial membrane on the encrusted bone. Now, however, we know certainly, that human arti- cular cartilage is entirely devoid of vessels; and we have good reason to patella’in state of ueure. The free believe, txiat tnose OI toe surround- The left-hand figure represents one ing textures are not the effective of the.se. fibres, more magnified, and agents in the ulcerative process. If p™cies™S S°me sroups of cor" we-refer, as we may fairly do, to the instance of the cornea, as a very analogous tissue, we can scarcely hesitate to admit that ulceration is essentially an alteration of the nutrition of the affected texture, and that the influence of the adjoining vessels upon it is only secondary. The perforating ulcer of the stomach is also a striking instance of the truth of this position. It being then admitted, that ulceration of cartilage is produced by a special disorder of its own nutrition, we proceed to inquire what has been ascertained respecting the nature and the stages of this diseased action. These were admirably set forth by Mr. Johu Goodsir, in his well-known paper on the process of ulceration in articular cartilage, an extract from which we sub- join : “If a thin section, at right angles, be made through the articular cartilage of a joint, at any part where it is covered by a gelatinous membrane in scrofulous disease, or by false membrane m simple inflammatory condition of the joint, and if this section be examined, it will be found to present the following appearances on ono edge of the section is the cartilage unaltered, with its cor puscles natural in position and size ; on the opposite ed"e is the gelatinous or false membrane, both consisting essentially of nucle Vertical section of cartilage of