DEGENERATIONS OE THE SUBSTANCE OF THE HEART. 329 The degeneration may be traced through various stages. It commences as an atrophic condition, in which the fibre loses its sharp edges, and the striae, so well seen in the healthy heart, dis- appear. One or more oil-globules successively appear, until the whole fibre is occupied by them; its outline is broken, and in the highest development the fibres appear almost fused together into a confused more or less opaque mass, in which nothing of the original t ssue can be traced. This molecular deposit of oil in the fibre is often accompanied by a generally adipose condition of the organ, and a layer of fat on the surface; but not necessarily so, and we must be careful not to infer that the heart is in a state of fatty degeneration because it is surrounded by adipose tissue. The fat may insinuate itself between the muscular fasciculi and fibres, and yet no change in the latter take place. The large circular fat cell, with its sharp boundary of -J^inch in diameter, when seen under the microscope, occupies the former position, and cannot be mistaken for the minute oil-globule, which varies from a micro- scopic point to -g—ginch, and is confined to the interior of the sarcolemma. The heart affected with fatty degeneration has lost the firm mus- cular appearance which characterizes it in health, and presents a Fio. £9, Specimens of fatty degeneration of the heart. JLHeart fibres taken from the column® earneee of the mitral valves of a vmim. the fatty degeneration was scarcely observable in the ventricle8^ shTvri J fl,T StlU rf'tai.ne<1 ,h(,ir slrire- "* An exf .emc case of fatty degenerrnion Hw£a" ent,re cnI\ver"lon of ,he muscular fibre into oil molecules/ still retefew whoTad lf' i;/eke?./r0m th,e ri*ht ve,lt™'e an’old gentleman with AtedSg .L S^o yeare of htalift *nd was affected Snnff °ri8h’v^ff COlT> ?ithor throughout or limited to indi- knTr\ t}VhT CUt a ."rensy stain is often left on the ’ though the absence of this circumstance must not bo looked