267 BED SOFTENING. in softening of the brain dependent on obstructions of the small arteries and capillaries artificially produced. Granule-cells or glomeruli may represent, there is no doubt, the final stage of fatty transformation of several different kinds of cells. In the brain the}' have been thought to proceed both from the ganglionic nerve- cells and from the cells of the neuroglia or connective-tissue matrix of the brain. When they occur in the white substance they must no doubt be altered cells of the neuroglia, since this tissue contains no other cells ; and even in the grey matter it seems pro- bable that they have the same origin. Since the occurrence of these bodies has, from the time when they were discovered by Gluge, been regarded the main argument for regarding red soften- ing as due to inflammation, many pathologists have of late years discarded the inflammatory hypothesis, and have been led to con- sider obstruction to the supply of blood as the chief determining cause of this condition. It has now been repeatedly proved by experiment that the obstruction of an arterial branch in any organ produces at first, engorgement of the capillaries in the part supplied by it, and often haemorrhage. Hence the red colour of parts from which the arterial supply is cut off is not necessarily a sign of inflammation. Similar results follow from obstruction of the veins. Among the causes obstructing circulation are embolism and thrombosis of arteries, embolism of capillaries, and thrombosis of veins and sinuses. Sudden blocking of arteries from embolism produces a rapid and peculiar kind of softening, which will be : specially described; but gradual obliteration of the arteries by • thrombosis is believed by many authorities to be a frequent cause ot red softening. The conditions favouring thrombosis are espe- cially atheromatous changes in the vessels, by which their calibre ■ is diminished and the inner surface roughened; weakness of the heart, which retards the rapidity of the circulation; and, it is sup- j posed, certain states of the blood favouring coagulation. Many ■ observations and experiments supporting these views have been 1 ™acf'0^a*-0 years, especially by French and German pathologists; of which an excellent summary is given by Dr. Bastian in the - second volume of Reynolds’s “ System of Medicine.”* This explanation is in some degree a return to the views of older writers. Thus, Dr. Abercrombie suggested that ramollissement of the cerebral substanco was analogous to gangrene occurring in 0 ot“’3r. Parts of the body; but, though obliteration of the smaller • arteries of the brain may give rise to this change, the name does not 3eem well chosen, and we are not justified in speaking of gangrene, which means putrefaction, in parts which, though seri- ously diseased, are by no moans withdrawn from the range of vital ‘ H,CesfS- . Au ™PorW physical symptom of gangrene is remark- ably absent in softening of the brain, viz., a foetid odour With regard to the cause of softening, as of cerebral disease; * Reynolds and Bastion: Article, “ Softening of the Brain,” pp. 434-477. .