26 CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE SERUM. tubercular disease of the lungs, and in simple and continued fevers. Bleeding does not appear to influence the quantity of albumen in a very constant way; on the whole it tends to decrease it; and this seems to be especially the case in typhoid fever. In cases of cerebral congestion and of apoplexy, generally considered as examples of plethora, there was found, especially in the former, a very considerable increase in many cases of the albumen. This amounted once to 24-8 beyond the mean. In the latter there were several instances of marked diminution. Cases of chlorosis, in which the globules are so remarkably diminished, show rarely any diminution of albumen; and sometimes a considerable excess, amounting to 14 or 20 parts per 1000. Diminution of Albumen.—Diminution of the albumen of the serum probably takes place in various diseases, attended with defective nutrition and wasting, but has been more particu- larly observed in renal dropsy. It appears as if the albu- men of the serum, being drained off in the urine, and in the dropsical efflux, there remains behind a less quantity in the blood. This idea is confirmed by the results of three succes- sive analyses of Andral’s, in the first of which there being much albumen in the urine, the serum contained only 57'9; in the second, the urine containing less albumen, the amount in the serum had increased to 66; in the third, the urine being no longer albuminous, the quantity in the serum had returned to its normal figure, 72. In one of our own cases, anasarcous fluid had a specific gravity of only 10-14 ; it contained much albumen; was weakly alkaline. The patient had morbus Brightii. It is also in accordance with the circumstance noticed by Dr. Bright and others, of low specific gravity of the serum in this disease. Still this explanation does not accord with the general fact, that dropsical effusions are more watery, and contain less albumen than the serum, which one would therefore expect to find of greater density in such cases. Probably the supply of such albumen, both from the chyle and lymph, is defective in quality and quan- tity. Becquerel and Bodier state that in diseases of the heart the albumen of the serum varies but- little, as long as there is no dropsy; then it diminishes, and often considerably. In the disease called the rot, affecting sheep, which is characterized by the presence of numerous distomata (flukes) in the biliary ducts, M. Andral and his coadjutors found the albumen of the blood considerably diminished, as well as the red globules, while the water was greatly increased. Sheep are also subject to ordinary anaemia, i.e., to a deficiency of red globules only in the blood, the albumen remaining at its normal amount; and it is very worthy of remark, that in these latter cases dropsy does not take place, while in sheep affected with the rot it is not uncommon. This seems to point out that when in cases of cachexia and debility serous infiltra- tions of the limbs occur, it is owing to a diminution in the quantity of albumen in the blood.