ABNORMAL COXDITIOXS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 737 the bladder, into the prostatic sinus of the urethra, into the I rectum, or, externally, into the perinseum. Ulceration of the prostate scarcely occurs, except in some cases of chronic hypertrophy. It occasions severe suffering, and the admixture of blood with the urine. Tubercle is not of frequent occurrence in the prostate; it is generally co-existent with tuberculosis of other parts of the generative apparatus, and of the lungs. It may form a single large mass, or numerous small separate ones. As the tubercles soften and disintegrate they give rise to abscesses, which pursue the same course as those of inflammatory origin. Cancer is rare in the prostate; five cases of it only were met with by M. Tanchou among 8,289. The scirrhous species has been scarce ever observed. Encephaloid, either primary or extending from the bladder, is almost the only form that occurs. It causes considerable enlargement of the gland, and may also perforate the mucous membrane of the bladder, and vegetate in its cavity, filling it up so completely as to give rise to the idea of the viscus being distended with urine. The disease occurred in a patient of Air. Stafford’s, at the age of five years, and in one of Air. Solly’s at three. After childhood, however, the disease is not encountered until after middle life, no authentic case being recorded between I the ages of eight and forty-one. Cysts are in extremely rare cases formed in the prostate, as Mr. I Adams thinks, by closure of the outlets and dilatation of the I cavities of follicles. Concretions, in greater or less number, are of almost constant I occurrence in the prostatic cavities; they may often be seen, on making a section of the gland, as reddish yellow grains. The larger, fully formed ones, show under the microscope a beau- I tiful laminated structure, and resemble a good deal a section of a lithic acid calculus. Their form varies very much ; in the smaller I it approaches the oval or circular—in the larger, it is more poly- gonal, or triangular. They are not unfrequently pale or colour- * | less. They originate in large oval vesicles, formed of a well- I marked homogeneous envelope. These appear to increase in size, while concentric laminae are formed in their interior, whose inter- spaces are occupied by a finely mottled deep yellow or red matter. A central cavity is almost always left within the last-formed laminae. ' Deposition of organic matter may take place in some cases exterior - to the original envelope, but in most it appears to be within. Concretions of older date seem to lose the beautiful definiteness of * their structure, and tend to disintegrate. The contents of these semi-organized formations appear to be earthy matter (phosphate, with a little carbonate of lime), tinged by the ordinary yellow pig- * ment which is so often derived from the blood. We do not think they are developed from the ordinary epithelial particles of the gland, but that the original vesicles are cells of a particular kind, which are produced from organic exudation upon the mucous sur- 3 B