PERICARDITIS. 321 tissue contribute to the formation of new elements, though some of these may be leucocytes which have escaped from the vessels. Hydropericardium.—The serous effusion just spoken of must not be confounded with the dropsical accumulation of fluid, to which we should restrict the term hydropericardium, and which is a fre- quent accompaniment of general dropsy. In many cases of wasting disease we find a small quantity—perhaps one or two ounces—of serum in the pericardium, which appears to be eliminated shortly before death. It is not associated with symptoms of inflammatory action; and the fluid itself is a clear, amber-coloured serum. The amount appears to increase by post-mortem transudation. In long-continued dropsy of the pericardium the heart is generally I found contracted, and the muscular tissue anaemic and "of light- ; °rowa hu,e- Occasionally an atrophic condition of the muscular i nbre results, which is characterized under the microscope by an absence of the striation seen in healthy muscle. Resu\\s of Pericarditis.—The phlogistic process in the pericardium . generally involves the entire surface of the membrane in acute cases; the chronic form, except as a sequel of the former, has a tendency to limitation, and its residuary effects are seen in the form of circumscribed white patches, either on the visceral or parietal portion, or of partial adhesions or isolated bands of false membrane. . Jhe false membranes remaining after an attack of pericardial inflammation, may, unless absorbed, become the seat of changes thm!,aJw° metki1Ch ^find them uudergmng in other structures throughout the body. They present a metamorphosis into fibrous cartilamnoid, and osseous tissue. The deposit of the latter occurs m smaller or larger patches; they may be numerous and distinct • ^om one another or they may unite to form, as in a preparation I SSiff'" (N°' «>«»)• * ** «*<*»* ™2HCi,firtion somctimcs goes so far as to affect the whole of the t* » 1m'"er’ Policing the effect of a bonv capsule enclosing the neart. I rue bone is said to be sometimes formed. Pericardial Inflammation.—Pericarditis is not often an- hopathm disease. Dr. Latham, who was the first to notice its ntquent complication with the rheumatic diathesis, has rarely met rJ, i v 6XCept ln thls connectl°n. Andral gives six cases of peri- !™18 “ot. connected with rheumatism, of which three were un- met w;tv|tfi<1 Wlt 1 any 10thcr ?101rbld affection ; while Corvisart only At v ith five independent of rheumatism, which wore all excer.t c “0!le' comj'hcatod with disease of other parts. The rheumatic nndPi1CafR°n 18 im7° fou°d at a11 Periods of life. Messrs. ItillLt 22?^“ Dl; West look upon it as essential in y Zn ’ and 1,11 wnters on tho subject concur with regard to its frequency m adults, though the statistical results arS at are * “TraDs. ruth. Soc.,” 1869, vol. xx p. 101.