THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE JOINTS. CHAPTER XLIV. DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Malformations.—In cases of defective development, some joints i may be quite absent, the bones may be united by congenital anchy- I losis ; or, in a less degree of imperfection, they may be incompletely I formed, the ligaments sometimes being partly or altogether want- ling. even when the rudimentary extremity of the bone is covered ; with cartilage. On the other hand, supernumerary joints exist, both when the number of bones is natural and when it is excessive'. Inflammation of the Synovial Membrane.— This may arise as a ] prim ary disease spontaneously, from cold, from injuries, from 1 localization of the rheumatic poison, or from that of syphilis, or I gonorrhoea. It also occurs as a secondary affection, excited by disease <of the cartilage, or of the subjacent osseous tissue. It may be ' acute in various degrees, or chronic. It is rare in young children Hess so about the age of puberty, and very frequent in adults.’ Before we describe the morbid changes, we must advert to two ] points in the anatomical arrangement of this membrane, which are ! much importance. The synovial are commonly, and no doubt j justly, classed with the serous membranes, and are described to tform shut sacs, just as these are. Dissection, however, fails to : trace the membrane over the free surface of the cartilages, and l microscopic examination confirms its absence, except in the fetus. • In these unused joints the cartilaginous surface is found quite •smooth and even, and covered by a layer of delicate epithelial sscales, such as line the surface of the synovial membrane where it ipasses over the ligaments. In the articulations, however of adults inot only is the epithelial layer absent, but the surface of the carti ’ Ilage is slightly irregular, as if somewhat worn. Our own exami- nations have convinced us of the general correctness of these state iments, given, by Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman, but we must also mention that another high authority, Mr. Toynbee, is of a different