4.16 THE LARYNX. describes a variety which ho considers important on account of its leading to a contraction of the passage. He states it to attack the mucous membrane of the epiglottis and tne duplicatures of the "lottis, converting the mucous membrane and subjacent areolar tissue into a fibro-lardaceous white resistent structure of tolerable thickness, thus giving rise to contraction of the rirna glottidis and the cavity of the larynx. In children, catarrhal inflammation of the larynx may produce all the symptoms of croup ; in which case, though, as Andral ob- serves, the passage of air through the contracted nma gives rise to the well-known sound of croup, the post-mortem examination wdl only exhibit a slight tumefaction of the mucous membrane, with- out any trace of the membranous exudation, which is characteristic of that disease. Chronic catarrh of the larynx may lead to ulcera- tion which starts from the mucous glands; it may occasionally give rise to warty growths, and always produces some thickening of the submucous tissue, with relaxation of the ligaments and muscles Croupous Inflammation of the Larynx."—The larynx is the most frequent seat of croupous exudation, and though occasiona.lv found to extend even into the smaller bronchial ramifications, the deposit in the trachea and bronchi appears invariably to be continuous with the laryngeal exudation. In this form of inflammation raise membranes are produced on the mucous surface, which cover it m more or less perfectly continuous layers. They are composed essen- tiallv of a delicate network of fine threads, entangling numerous mucous corpuscles or leucocytes. The threads have been regarded as fibrinous, and produced by the exudation of a compilable sub- stance from the blood-vessels ; but it is probable that the true ongm and nature of the false membrane are very different. It is usually of a light yellow or cream colour, varies from a mere film to a due and a half in thickness, and is more or less closely attached to the mucous membrane, from which in early stages it cannot be com- pletely separated without wounding the surface. As the disease goes on, however, the layer of false membrane becomes loosened, leaving a brightly injected surface below which may, in some cases, show no further change. . , , , ■ ■ Croup of the larynx and trachea is said by Rmdfleisch to be dntm guishedbv the stratified character of the false membrane ; layers of roundish 'lymphoid cells alternating with homogeneous laier»oI * The reader is particularly referred to the ISth and 20th Leetuits in Hr. West. ■work on the “ Diseases of Infancy,” -vrhich are calculated to em- Croun is a disease known by a great variety of names. ,]p-cribed K The English name croup is of Scotch ongm. and was first,weJleliere in the distinction between them is still involved m some ohscunty.