SUPPURATION IN THE KIDNEY. C73 from the obstruction of an arterial branch by atheromatous and fibrinous matter, which would of course produce a local anaemia. In that which is regarded by several as the second stage of renal degeneration, the kidney, though much enlarged, is often remarkably pale. This anaemia, however, is not attended with atrophy, and is itself, probably, in part the result of pressure exercised on the intertubular plexus. Anaemia is the most constant result of obstruction of the small vessels by waxy degeneration. SUPPURATION IN THE KIDNEY. Pus may be formed in the kidney under two conditions, (1) from suppurative nephritis, (2) as pysemic abscess. (1) Suppurative nephritis, analogous to common inflammation of other parts, and like it often passing into suppuration, is not a very common disease; it constitutes what is generally known as renal abscess. It is most frequently seen as the result of the irritation of calculi in the kidney, or of inflammation of the bladder, which has either spread up along the ureters, or directly attacked the kidney. Hence this form of disease has been called Surgical Kidney. Blows on the loins are also mentioned by Drs. Prout and Johnson as causes of nephritis. Whatever be the cause, the general characters of the inflammatory action will not differ materially, provided it is true nephritis that we are dealing with, and that it passes on to the stage of suppuration. Nephritis unattended with the formation of pus, would probably be undis- tmguishable from the condition of hypersemia above described. . A® kidneys are usually enlarged, and in some parts very much injected; m others, the red surface has numerous whitish spots, or patches, appearing through it; these are seen in sections to’be , ends of long stria;, which commence at the base of the medul- lary cones, and extend to the surface of the organ. Between tnem are interposed streaks of congestion. There is often nothing remarkable in the medullary cones. The minute changes attect both the tubes and the interstitial stroma. In a case which the cortical tubes were quite infarcted with their epithelium; in the whitish portions this was especially accumu- j?te7> and altered so that it resembled a mass of nuclear particles; o tubes also were not clearly seen ; they were doubtless so dis- tended and crowded together that their outlines were lost. In some parts the basement membrane of the tubes was gone, and the ntents appeared as a naked strand of nuclei and granular utter, part of which became dispersed between the tubes, and aae the mass quite uniform. This mass of altered renal struc- Tm? .gently on the point of fusing down into fluid pus. wprr. l P?g^an tufts aPPeared healthy. The medullary tubes re also infarcted, some of them veiy much, and wore opaque, as X x ’ i