ORCHITIS. l'J.1 outset, and limited to the epididymis—progresses even more slowly than in syphilis, and it is common for the skin to share in the inflammation, the coverings of the testis becoming early adherent to it; and finally, the skin breaking down, an ulcer is formed, having thick indurated edges, through which the pent- up diseased testis protrudes in a granulating mass, in the form of a “benign fungus.” This fungous protrusion, although it may be covered with ordinary granulations, includes a great portion—sometimes even the whole of the testicle—the altered tubules being separated by a certain amount of fibro-corpuscular or cheesy material. The researches of Mr. Curling and Dr. Andrew Clark long ago pointed out the nature of the change chiefly present in this scrofulous form of orchitis. This seems to consist essentially in an affection of the true glandular structures, rather than of the tissues binding these together, although both suffer to some extent. The epithelium lining the seminal tubules proliferates, the cells block the tubes, and dilate them irregularly; Fig. 175- nutrition and physiological function being interfered with, the cells become cloudy and swollen, fat granules ac- cumulate within them, they burst, discharging granular nuclei, and finally a con- siderable mass of oily and fibrinous debris occupies the seat of the tubes which have been destroyed. Where these changes have occurred in isolated bits of the tubes, minute grey or yellow nodules result, and hence from their resemblance to so- called “ tubercles” in the lungs of phthisical people, these testicles have been called “ tubercular.” The close analogy between “ catar- rhal pneumonic phthisis ”—in which the main feature is an active proliferation and degeneration of the epithelium—and scrofulous orchitis, on the one hand, and between ‘ ‘ chronic interstitial pneumonia,” or “ fibroid phthisis” and syphilitic orchitis on the other, may serve to render the important distinctions here referred to more evident. Tubercle of the testis, in the form of grey miliary semi-translucent points, such as are met with in the lungs and other organs of patients dying with acute tuberculosis, seems to be a compara- tively rare affection. It is probable, however, that this is because the testicles are seldom examined in medical autopsies. In the Museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital there is a beautiful specimen of 2.2,1' Scrofulous orchitis. (From a drawing by Mr. Amott.)