GROWTH AND DEGENERATIONS OF CANCER. 189 system; secondary, to those that are in some way derived by dissemination from the primary. We have already alluded to one mode by which secondary cancers are established, viz.: that through the medium of lymphatics; and we have shown how it is explained by the close connection of both epithelial and connective tissue cancers with the lymphatic system. It is the commonest mode of transmission, especially in the case of true cancers, while in the class of sarcomata, even when they are highly malignant, it is less frequent, though not unknown. In the same way the blood-vessels may be the channel of infection, and the situation of the secondary growths often clearly shows this to be the case. The nidus is most often the next capillary plexus at which the blood arrives; thus, cancer of the breast occasions cancerous tumours in the lungs in almost all cases in which it also affects the liver, but it often produces cancer in the lungs without any occurring in the liver; cancer originating in the stomach occasions similar disease in the liver to which3 its veins proceed, before it produces any in the lungs. This method of transmission is the rule in malignant sarcomatous tumours where the lymph-glands are sometimes remarkably unaffected. Distribution by the Vessels.—In most of these cases of infection by means of blood or lymph-vessels, there is no possibility of tracing by what particles, whether solid or liquid, the secondary growths are set up; but there are instances where it is clear that the primary morbid growth has made its way into the vessels, and either crept along them till it has reached the next capillary plexus, or else allowed of the detachment of solid masses which have been carried along with the circulation till arrested in the capillaries, after the manner of an embolus, ihese facts have been observed both in cancerous and sar- comatous tumours, and in a few cases of enchondroma A similar mechanical transport may, however, take place in other ways than by the circulating fluids. Thus the distribution of cancer from the kidneys to the bladder may take place alon<* the ureters; from the larynx to the substance of the lungs, along the bronchial tubes; and in one remarkable case, a transplantation of cancer was observed from the upper to the lower part of the spinal canal, without any intermediate growth. Small cancerous growths have been observed in the track of an operation-wound 'for the removal of abdominal cancer, and when a tumour (cancer or sar coma) softens and bursts into the peritoneum, we find an abundant crop of new growths, which spring up, as if from seed. In such cases, the germs or solid masses take root, so to speak in their new soil, and begin an independent existence. Degrees of Infective Properties.—It is generally truo that thn greater the proportion of fibre in a tumour, the loss is its malignancy; especially intending thereby its tendoncy to con tammate the system, and to destructive ulceration On till other hand, the moro it abounds in cell growth, and in fluid