174 CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOUR8. infiltration, or as a distinct tumour; even in the latter case it is usually very closely connected with adjoining parts, and surrounded by no capsule, or a very ill-defined one. The_ ex- ternal form, the soft consistence, and sometimes the colour have been thought to resemble the brain, whence the name ence- phaloid. On section a thick creamy “juice” is generally seen, either exuding spontaneously or on pressure, or else obtained by scraping the surface with a knife. This juice contains, or is com- posed of, cells set free from the alveolar spaces; and if they be all removed from a thin slice of the cancer, the amount of fibrous tissue left is sometimes very small. The stroma is, however, never wanting, and has the alveolar arrangement already described. The substance is opaque, and in colour sometimes pure white, bat more often modified into various shades of red by the presence of blood vessels. The cells of medullary cancer are very difficult to cha- racterize. They vary much, both in size and shape, and when large they are mostly flat and angular, or polygonal, so as to have an “epithelial” character, which, if well marked, is very distinc- tive. Such cells contain one or several nuclei, sometimes them- selves larger. In some soft and rapidly-growing cancers, the cells are very small, and have in this case a much less pronounced epi- thelial character, but still show great diversity of form. There are also often free nuclei to be seen, which are possibly derived from fragile and easily-destroyed cells. In tumours so subject to softening and fatty degeneration as medullary cancers, all cell forms are liable to be destroyed, and a comparatively young portion of the tumour should therefore be sought for. History of Medullary Cancer.—This form of cancer presents, as has been said, in a very marked degree the characters above de- scribed as malignant. It is, however, worthy of note that its growth is, as compared with other forms, extremely rapid, and that it is by no means specially a disease of advanced life. It is most frequent between the ages of forty and fifty, but may occur m infancy, and cases of cancer in youth are almost invariably ol tins VaVarieties of Medullary Cancer.—Various names have been given to varieties of medullary cancer which differ m their consistency and general appearance. More important characters are deno.ei by the following namesThe term Hcematoid implies that the irrowth is unusually vascular, is the seat of excessive dove opmen of vessels, and perhaps of blood, and is prone to pour out those alarming hemorrhages which often cause fatal exhaustion. < the htematoid character is strongly marked, the name ot l ungus Ifromatodes is applicable. Melanoid cancer is m the great majority of cases encephaloid structure, with the addition of black jugment. The secondary growths which follow a primary me anoi canc may be unpmmented. . .. . . _ Villous Cancer is a growth of medullary cancer projcc mg m * cavity, such as the bladder, where it takes a villous 01 po yp