272 hypertrophy of the brain. the amount of white matter; this, according to Rokitansky, is owim', not to an augmentation in the number of nerve tubes, or their dimensions, hut in the excessive development of the inter- vening and nucleated substance or neuroglia. , Hypertrophy appears to be due to some constitutional cachexia, and is met with chiefly in early childhood. As long as the fontanelles are not closed, it does not in itself involve danger, and even the intellect continues unimpaired; but as soon as the ionta- nelles have closed, the undue pressure gives nse to numerous cerebral symptoms, none of which however, are char^termbc of this disease. It belongs essentially to the family of lbadutlc affections; the frequent coincident distortion of the bones, the swelling of the lymphatic glands, and the general torpor of the system, suffice to establish its relationship. The bloo^fl^fS ^nd dryness of the tissues must assist us m deciding ; ina doubtful ca.e whether we have to deal with hypertrophy of this eharacter or with hypermmia, hydrocephalus, or oedema, conditions which also may cause the brain to appear too large for its case, and Pr0^(f a flattening of the convolutions. Nor would it be just to consider as diseased a brain, which, though larger than the average at the age o the individual, exhibits no morbid relations such as those described. We must ako be careful not to confound cases of tumefacbon of the brain from softening with hypertrophy ; thus we find m Andril’s “Clinique Medicale” the account of a post-mortem, in which owing to this cause, the left hemisphere was so much swollen Ts to puS over the mesial line to the right side. A similar speci- comatose. The thalamus is described as enlarged to«ie size_oi heffis eg-, of a lardaceous, dead white appearance on section, with S soSing of the adjacent parts « test™ very vascular of oj.iuiou that the abnormity was discovered. Di. f ° JcurTQXlCe of the organic ialady had remained latent, imti!tje tUe fall. The same author gives an intei estm, . ■ ,uul under, weights of the brains of fifty c b concludes that all inflammatory who died of various diseases, pj^u of the organ, affections have a tendency to increase, the 0f blood and that this increase is mainly due to the gieatei amou contained in the cerebral vessels. * “Die Krankheiten ties Gehims und RUckemnarks boi Kiudcni, Muuthncr, p. 169. Wien, 1814.