MUSCULAR TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. 761 uterus continuing normal, we find no attempt at the formation of a pedicle; the tumour has evidently formed in the substance of the posterior part of the cervix the uterine tissue, which is still spread out over the upper part of the tumour as if embracing it. The tumour, in this case, is twelve inches long, by five inches thick, and presents the ordinary structure of fibrous tumours. The fibroid tumours found almost free in the ab- dominal cavity, or, at least, only attached to the uterus by cellular adhesions, probably have the same origin as the growths we have just con- sidered ; having been deve- loped in the first instance un- der the peritoneal investment of the uterus, they have sub- sequently become detached. This does not preclude the possibility of their being formed primarily, at the points where they are found. Minute Structure.—The in- timate structure of fibroid tumours varies in some re- spects ; to the naked eye it exhibits, at times, a concen- tric disposition of fibres; but moro commonly an irregular wavy appearance, without any uniformity of arrangement, presents itself, and it is more particularly in this case that cavities containing blood, a dark-coloured gelatinous fluid, ora clear serum, are formed, which give the tumour, on section, a resemblance to the sero-cystic disease of the testes or mamma. Occasionally the fibrous tumour presents a lobulated conformation. The micro- scopic appearances of the fibroid tumours of the uterus are not in accordance with what we should expect to find in a true fibrous structure. The microscope, in fact, demonstrates that they belong to an altogether different class of growths ; the fibrous appearance is scarcely perceptible under the microscope, which displays elon- gated nuclei, imbedded in an amorphous stroma. It appears to us that from the analogy they present to the genuine uterine tissue, in the unimpregnated state, we should be more disposed to class them with homologous than heterologous productions; that they and in its growth has separated Fig. 180. A uterus, the upper half of which is en- larged by the growth of numerous fibro- in uscular tumours in its walls. One tu- mour. larger than the rest, projects into the dilated upper part of the cavity of the uterus, and completely fills it. Five others are shown by the section imbedded in the anterior wall, and many others project on the external surface of the uterus. The lower half of the uterus is healthy, but elongated. The walls of the portion oc- cupied by the tumours are thick and laminated, like the walls of the uterus in pregnancy. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, xxxii. 16.)