HYDROCEPHALUS. 2-18 * <• Lcotures on Rost and Pain,” p. 34, Figs. 6 and 7. London, 1S63. Sp. gravity 1011'38 Water Albumen Chloride of sodium Soda Urea and osmazome Sulphuric acid, lime, potash 982(3 6 0 7-0 1-4 30 a trace. 1000 0 This composition differs from that of normal cerebro-spinal fl u. <1 in containing a larger proportion of solid constituents, viz. 1'8 per cent, instead of about 1'2 per cent., which is nonnal; in contam- ing more albumen; and in containing.urea, which has, however, been found in the cerebro-spinal fluid in several different diseases, especially in disease of the kidneys. The following analysis ot normal cerebro-spinal fluid is by Hoppe :— "Water ••• Albumen Salts and extractive matters. 987-49 1-62 1052 999-63 Causes of Hydrocephalus.—It is probable that great accumulation of fluid in the cerebral ventricles may arise from several different causes. In that form which is quite congenital, it would seem, a priori highly probable that original malformation should be the cause; and such a condition seems to have been discovered by Mr. Hilton, who has most ably demonstrated it m his lectures. ihe whole chapter should he read by all who wish to underhand the functions and relations of the cerebro-spinal Huid. He there records the fact that in several brains of children dying from hy- drocephalus he found the opening which naturally exists below the cerebellum, and between that organ and the medulla oblongata, forming a communication between the fourth ventricle and t e spinal canal, completely stopped up; so that fluid contained in the ventricles must be entirely shut m. This condition was found not only in children, but in one case m an adult, though in Mr. Hilton’s opinion as a congenital defect. MTMe these facts due weight, it must be pointed out that we are yet far from understanding either how the fluid ,ls Poured1 “h? the cerebral cavities or how it is removed; and that we do not positively know that the spinal canal has any better means of getting rid of an excess of fluid than the cerebral ventricles have. In cases which are not congenital, but where the ^echon comes on during infancy, there seem to be several influences which must at least bo called predisposing causes Amragtheso are rickets, which, by retarding the ossification oftheskifidunm ishes its power of resistance; syphilis, scrofulous cachexia, and