ADVENTITIOUS GBOWTHS OE THE DUEA MATEE. 229 size and number of the Pacchionian bodies. Of these we shall have occasion to speak, when considering the relations of the arachnoid. Adventitious Groivths of the Dura Mater.— Little is to be said con- cerning heterologous products occurring in the dura mater; the same cause which accounts for the comparative rarity of idiopathic inflammation in this membrane, suffices to explain why it is less frequently the seat of adventitious growths than the other enve- lopes of the brain. Fibroid tumours are not unfrequent in connec- tion with the dura mater, from which they are more prone to arise than from other structures within the cranium, according to the pre- vailing law that the physiological properties of a structure are liable to influence the morbid growths springing from it. In many in- stances these tumours would come under the head of hypertrophy, rather than of heterologous pro- ducts. Both on the internal and external surface of the dura mater we fre- quently meet with small laminae of bone, which in many instances maybe owing to chronic inflamma- tory action, of which no other trace is left. Some writers deny that the ossifications found on the inner sur- face of the dura mater are the pro- ducts of this membrane; they view them rather as growths belonging to the arachnoid, an opinion to which we demur, both on account of the position in which these bone do- posits are found, and from the gene- ral endowment of periosteal tissues, to which class the dura mater un- doubtedly belongs, togeneratebone. These ossifications, which are easily separated from the dura mater, and are generally met with along the falx, must not bo confounded with Fid. 54. A portion of dnra mater, exhibiting a mass of bone-lilce substance of low conical form, attached to the side of the falx cerebri. The patient, twenty- eight years old, had been subject to severe headaches from boyhood. A fortnight before death acute headache supervened, followed by delirium, partial paralysis, and insensibility. There was copious effusion of lymph in the cerebral membranes and ven- tricles. * Lateral view of the same. St. Bartholomew’s Museum. Series vi] No. 46. Catalogue, vol, i. p. 201. the hypertrophy of the frontal and parietal bones, said to occur durmg pregnancy, and hence termed, by their discoverer, Rokitan- sky, puerperal osteophyte. Tho most remarkable instances of genuine ossification, or of osseous deposit in the dura mater, are occasionally met with in chronic hydrocephalus, whore it seems w indicate an effort of Nature to afford extra protection to tho