284 CONDITION OF THE BRAIN IN INSANITY. Cysticercus celluloses is either confined to the brain or else there 1-. a simultaneous development in the muscles. It may occur in very large numbers ; according to Cobbold, at least 100 fatal cases ha>e come to light. . Serous cysts, neither originating in haemorrhage nor due to parasites, are of very rare occurrence; but true Dermoid cysts have been recorded. In a case referred to by Forster a .compound cyst, containing hair, cartilage, and bone, was found m the left cerebral hemisphere of a boy ten weeks old. Another containing fat, with short stiff hairs, was seen by Sir J. Paget, under the cerebellum of an elderly man.* CONDITION OF THE BRAIN IN INSANITY. Although there are no specific morbid conditions always asso- ciated with insanity some facts have been ascertained v hich are worth consideration. They must necessarily be given m a some- what fragmentary form. In acute mania, we find evidences of great hypertemia, or incipient inflammation, especially in the cortex of the brain.t The grey matter (and especially its inner two-thirds) assumes a distinct pmk tint, which is not removed by washing the cut surface. The same is seen m a less degree in some parts of the white medullary substance. This intense hypo- rfemia is probably always accompamed by some degree of capillary haemorrhage; and on microscopical examination red blood cor- puscles may be seen scattered among the nervous elements, io this condition especially belong the so-called dissecting aneurisms, though we must repeat that they are not peculiar to cases o t in- sanity. A more chronic change consists m an increase of connective tissue by which the nervous elements are compressed and unpaired. This connective tissue growth appears to start from the waffs of the capillary vessels themselves, and not from the neuroglia. The vessels suffer also more obvious changes; they becomevarmosM^ tuous knotted, or aneurismal; their walls show great thickening and fatty or calcareous degeneration. These changes m the ve^ are especially characteristic of insanity, accompanied by general naralvsis t Degeneration of other structures is shown by the presence of amyloid corpuscles, pigmented, fatty, and atrophied Live cells. Actual calcification of the ganghomc cells h^d| been observed. Peculiar changes in the nerve cells have turtner been observed by Meynert, who describes vesicular enlargement * “ Surgical Pathology,” second edition, p. tf£>. aifferent from that caused by t We believe tills form of hyperremm to be^essentiaUi cortoN, an(1 by the meningitis. It is-distinguished by outer layer is pale. In meningitisf or simple cm^ges'tion.^oi^die o\her' hand, the whole of the grey eor.tcal Dear's bv RokUm^'lwSl'sanhey, and others See description and figures bv Suiikey in “Trans. Path, doc., 1866, \ol. xvu. pl»P* •