ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 184 something of the disturbances of nutrition occasioned by unhealthy conditions of the blood quoad its chemical composition; we know something of the origin of rheumatism, and gout, and syphilis, and of the effects they produce; but they are very different from the phenomena of new formations. Surely the arising of a fibrous tumour, an enchondroma, or a cancer, implies a very different kind of action to that which is observed in any blood disease. We cer- tainly believe the blood to be affected, probably in its chemical composition, as well as. and most importantly, in its vital endow- ments, but we do not think it is the only seat of primary alteration. Were it so, how would it be possible to account for the constant preference manifested by scirrhus, and by other tumours, for par- ticular sites ? We conceive then, that in the case of cancer, the blood and the general system, but especially some particular part, having suffered some unknown deterioration or perversion of their vital power, a formative process is set up in the specially weakened part (perhaps in consequence of a blow or other injury), causing the development of cell and fibre structure, which soon constitutes a new growth, endowed with powers of assimilation and vegetation to an almost indefinite extent. The tendency to cancerous disease, that is to say, the deterioration of the blood, and of the assimila- tive powers, may exist for a long time before it expresses itself in the tangible reality of a tumour; but when this is formed it becomes an engine for multiplication of similar tumours, and intensification of the cancerous diathesis. It is not possible to trace the process further back than to the tissues themselves. In the vast majority of instances the growth manifestly originates within or in the interstices of textural elements; in some few it has been found in the coats of the vessels, but in none has it been certainly proved to have originated in the blood. Cancerous growths have, indeed, been seen within the veins, but this has been the result of perforation of their walls by formations external to them. Development proceeds in rudimentary cancerous tissue just as it would do in healthy ; nuclei and fibres seem to arise in the same way; and the view taken of the pathological process must depend upon the light in which fhe physiological processes of growth and development are regarded. Theories of the development of New Growths.—According to one theory the formation of new elements, whether in physiological or pathological circumstances, has been regarded as a production ae novo, or as the transformation of an amorphous substance into formed elements, much as a saline solution transforms itselt into crystals. This may be called the blastema theory, 01 the theory of free cell development. On this theory the formation of a new growth begins with the exudation (from the vesse s) of a certain quantity of blastema, which proceeds to develop cell and fibre-structure. In the case of morbid growths, sue as cancer, the special character or morbidity of the growth depeni s upon the blood and general system, but especially on the paiticuiar