USES OF FIBEDTE. 18 blood of the foetus and of the new-born animal, in whom certainly development and growth are proceeding rapidly, and in whom there must, therefore, be a constant demand for plastic material, is rich in globules, but poor in fibrine. Andral found in lambs, during the first twenty-four hours after birth, a proportion of fibrine only amounting to 1*9 per 1,000 ; at the end of the fourth day it had risen to 3 parts. This observation, as well as the familiar effect of diseases preventing the due oxygenation of the blood, in causing it to remain fluid after death, which seems to imply the non-formation or destruction of the fibrine, points very clearly, as it seems to us, to the conclusion that fibrine is an oxida- tion-product, and rather belonging to the descending series of de- structive assimilation, than to the ascensive, plastic, and formative. That fibrine takes an important part in the reparative process cannot be doubted; we constantly find it forming the uniting medium between divided parts, but have we any evidence that it becomes further developed, and passes into the form of any tissue more highly organized than that of the cicatrix P Surely there is not the least, or rather all that we know of the process of repara- tion tends to contradict such an idea. The case of a divided nerve serves to illustrate this point very well. Within a short time after the operation the cut ends of the nerve are united together by fibrinous effusion, which has solidified round them; this passes afterwards on into the form of imperfect fibrous tissue, and so the apparent continuity of the nerve is restored. But we know that it is not really restored until very much later; we know that many months must elapse ere the severed nerve-tubules can be again connected by their own proper tissue, and their function restored. Now, in this really reparative act there is no reason to believe that fibrine takes any prominent part, that it is at all more concerned than the albumen and oily matter of the blood, which are the elements, chemically considered, of which the nerve-matter actually consists. In the same way, in every organizing act in which there is more than the mere coagulation of fibrine, albuminous serum is also present, and we have no reason to. exclude it from partici- pating in the formative process. .Once more, if we take instances where deposition of fibrine has almost exclusively taken place, do we find development and growth proceeding actively in these deposits or not ? The wall of an aneurismal sac is often lined with dense layers of coagulated fibrine, and yet Professor Simon testifies that on the most careful examination of these layers no trace whatever is to be found of new organization. So it is with the masses of fibrine that are deposited in the spleen, the kidney, and in other parts. They show, after a time, a tendency to retrograde and dissolve, but none to develop into any higher grade. The small, fibrinous, sub-pleural nodules often seen in tolerably healthy lungs, are favourably circumstanced as regards vascular supply, for growth and further development; but they do not appear to enlarge or manifest any vital activity. The deposits of fibrine