477 MINUTE CHANGES IN PNEUMONIA. Fig. 104. condensation of the tissues necessarily, also, involves the blood - vessels, and arrests and prevents the circulation ; so that the further changes must be mainly due to extra-vascular metamor- phoses. The parenchyma becomes gradually softer, and the more str;nv-coloured and paler its hue, the more fully the suppuration process is established, and the more friable the tissue becomes. A purulent fluid now exudes on pressure. At the commencement of this stage the air vesicles may be isolated in the shape of grey granulations, of a globular form, Microscopic characters of the contents of an air vesicle in grey hepatizition, consisting of granular matter, pus cor- puscles, exudation cells, and cylindrical epithelium. containing an opaque granular matter. The microscopic charac- ters of grey hepatization at this period have erroneously been stated to be those of suppura- tion only; but true pus cells are by no means the predominant forms seen. . When the third stage of pneumonia advances to a fusion of the inter-vesicular septa, and an entire breaking down of the tissues, all trace of the normal structures disappears, and we only find a Confused mass of pulmonary debris, pus, and ichorous sanies. We then have to deal with genuine pulmonary abscess; but this mode ot termination must be regarded as decidedly exceptional. MINUTE CHANGES IN PNEUMONIA. If fine sections be made from a portion of lung in the stage o red hepatization, which has been subjected to appropriate har- dening processes, we find an appearance like that represented in -rig. -05. The capillaries are gorged with blood, the epithelium unaltered, the cavity of the air cells partially filled with a mass made up of fine fibrinous threads and a variable number of “ exu- dation cells ” or leucocytes, with a few red blood corpuscles. The nbimous mass, though not in contact with the alveolar wall, is nevertheless attached to it by fibrinous prolongations, which pass out into neighbouring alveoli. The fibrinous threads are notably nne and transparent. This appearance is only seen when the nepatization is very recent, and we do not often obtain specimens just in this stage.* There is no evidence in this stage of any new formation of cells ttl° lung- I he masses which choke up the air cells seem to bo '■r’th"fr,omi 'rhi7h Fitr- W5 was “Pied there was some abnormal dilatation the wX ’ 1 aP< tXaegCrutCS tl,e spai'° between the exudation masfand