VABIETIES OF HYPEBASMIA. 48 foim, and which can only be healed by means which bring about ahealthy circulation. These are, of course, directed to take on the force of gravity by the recumbent posture, to empty the distended vessels, and to supply, by external equable pressure, the defective tonicity of their walls. It may, perhaps, be ques- tioned whether the class of congestions from this cause should not have been included under those arising from venous obstruction, as the condition of the vein itself is such as to create an obstruc- tion to its own current. Withdrawal of nervous influence from a part is sometimes the cause of congestion taking place in it. Mr, Simon records a case in which, after the ulnar nerve had been torn across at the inner condyle, the two inner fingers of the hand of the same side ‘1 had become swollen and livid with vascular injection.” It is not, however, to be concluded that the walls of the vessels lose their tonicity whenever the nerves of a part are unable to discharge their functions, or that this is actually dependent on nervous influence. No doubt it is the special endowment of the vascular membranes, and only capable of being affected by the action of the nerves, as well as by direct stimulus. The effect of an atonic state of the walls of the vessels is well illustrated by an experiment performed by Dr. Williams ; he adapted to a syringe a tube with two arms, one of which was connected with a metal tube, and the other with a portion of dog’s intestine, of the same length as the metal tube; but, when distended, double its diameter. Water was now thrown in by the syringe, and the quantity discharged from the open ends of each of the two tubes estimated. The metal tube in the same time yielded three times more liquid than the intestine. Now a vessel, whose wall is possessed of a proper degree of contractility, may be compared to the metal tube. The force of the heart com- municated by the fluid to its walls is not lost, but reacts again immediately upon the fluid, and drives it onward. The vessel with atonic flaccid walls resembles the intestine, which yielded to the distending force of the column of fluid, and, from not reacting upon it, allowed a great part of the force to be lost as an impelling influence. Consequences of Congestion.—The effects of congestion have already been partially noticed. They have reference mainly to two circumstances—one the impairment of the vital actions of the part, the other the effusion from the overloaded vessels of watery, albuminous, or mucous fluids. When the arm is tied up for venesection a sensation of numbness, weakness, and chilliness is felt after a time, showing that the sensibility and contractility of the limb are impaired by the congestion which has taken place. In the hepatic and renal congestions, which often are produced by obstructive disease of the heart, the secre- tion of bile and of urine is commonly diminished, or morbidly affected. Cerebral congestion interferes materially with the free exercise of the functions of which the brain is the instrument.