CONNECTION OF GREY AND YELLOW TUBERCLE. 199 we find that the yellow masses are formed not by the transform- ation of the tubercle alone, but also of the secondary products of inflammation formed round it, so that a mass of yellow tubercle often contains a grey tubercle. This is seen in the lung, where a grey tubercle becomes apparently enlarged by the (inflam- matory) products in the neighbouring air-cells. These inflamma- tory products do not at first differ apparently from those of simple inflammation, but have a peculiar tendency, instead of undergoing simple absorption and removal, and leaving the tissues intact, to break down into amorphous granular material, and involve the tissues in their ruin. This is the caseous transformation of tubercle which we believe really to exist, so that, to the sources of caseous masses before enumerated, we ought to add in a prominent place, the products of tubercular inflammations. We shall see, in speak- ing of the peritoneum, that the tubercle, with its associated products may undergo another kind of transformation and become fibrous. This is, in fact, the general rule with tubercles of serous mem- branes. Theory of Secondary Production of Grey Tubercles.—The argu- ments for the more modern view that miliary tubercles "are secondary to caseous masses, require to be stated more at length. They were originally derived from pure observation in the field of clinical and post-mortem examination, but have received a certain confirmation from experiment. Observation first led to the hypothesis that the production of miliary tubercle depended upon the absorption of degenerative inflammatory pro- ducts, producing rather a local or constitutional infection of the tissues. _ The following are the chief facts adduced by Buhl, who, with Dietrich, has been the principal defender of this doctrine. (1) The almost constant presence of yellow tubercle or pulmonary cavities in cases of miliary tuberculosis. (2) The yellow tubercle is in these cases not incapsulated, and the vomicae are not enclosed all round by dense fibroid tissue, and hence absorption is easily possible.. (3) The accumulation of miliary tubercles first begins in the neighbourhood of the seat of the primary disease, and they are at first small, soft, and grey. (4) The miliary tuberculosis spreads excentrically, so that the older tubercles which have become altered and yellow, are nearest to the focus, while the smallest or youngest aro situated at the greatest distance from it. (5) The disease has clinically the character of an “ infective” or so- called zymotic disease. The theory, as at first stated, implied that, by the caseous metamorphosis of inflammatory products was generated some iniective substance or poison, which was the exciting cause of secondary tuberculosis; but it was soon found necessary greatly to enlarge the conception first formed of the antecedent morbid changes; and to include various processes resulting not in caseation out in loss of substance, such as gastric or intestinal ulcers instances of such lesions as the probable primary source of tubercle