849' MINUTE CHANGES IN RICKETS. pelvis which have been termed the elliptical, heart, or kidney- shaped, or figure-of-eight pelves. An oblique form in which the ilio-pectineal eminence of one side approaches nearer to the pro- montory on one side than on the other, was first shown by Nagele to result from ankylosis of one sacro-iliac symphysis; these pelves present a very characteristic appearance, and look as if one half of the pelvis and the acetabulum had been forcibly pushed over to the opposite ilium; hence the diameter from the sound sacro-iliac union to the opposite acetabulum will be very much diminished, while the interval between the ankylosed symphysis and the other acetabulum will be not only not diminished but even increased. An excellent delineation of this and several other forms of distorted pelvis are to be found in Dr. Eamsbotham’s “ Atlas of Midwifery.” The rickety distortions of the pelvis are probably never met with unaccompanied by spinal curvature; though the latter may occur without materially influencing the pelvic diameters. (5) The arrest of growth is a very striking phenomenon. Rickety children, though they may quite outlive their complaint and become strong and muscular, never become tall. Their short stature depends not only on curvature, but on actual shortness‘of the bones from arrest of growth. MINUTE CHANGES IN RICKETS. When the swollen end of a bone in rickets is cut into we see the chief morbid appearances at the junction of the bone and the carti- lage. Here there is normally in children a transition zone, made up partly of altered cartilage, which is bluish, and partly of red spongy tissue. This zone is immensely enlarged. The changes in the cartilage are found to extend over perhaps twenty or thirty rows of cartilage capsules, instead of one row as usually. The spongy tissue forms a layer several times as broad as it does normally; it contains in its meshes a red pulpy matter, which appears to be the ordinary red medulla, increased in quantity and altered in structure. Moreover, the line of junction, usually uniform, is very irregular; so that at some points cartilage dips deep down into the ossifying zone, while at another calcified portions appear in the middle of the cartilage. The existence of this broad band of flexible uncalcified tissue, at the junction of the epiphysis, is one cause of the distortions which rickety bones undergo. Examination of the altered zone of cartilage shows that, though so much wider than the normal zone of altered cartilage, the changes in it are essentially the same, the cartilage capsules showing proliferation and being arranged in long rows, as they usually are preparatory to ossification. The spongy tissue, beside its red pulp, is made up of trabeculae, arranged in the same’wav ns in cancellous bone, but of different structure. They are composed of 3 i