631 CONDITIONS PRODUCING JAUNDICE. * See a case in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiv. p. 122. softening. Sometimes we find the wall thickened and inflamed with thiTcoagula adherent to it, sometimes quite unchanged. In some cases a sort of embolism appears to take place within the portal system ; portions of clot being transferred from the tributary veins of the portal trunk to some of its branches. This is espe- cially the case when the coagula soften. A remarkable case of this kind is described at page 404. If simple obliteration occur the clot becomes inseparably united with the inner coats of the venous wall, probably through growth from the latter.* When the inflammation has subsided, the obstructed vessel gradually shrinks, and is reduced to a fibrous cord, while the sur- rounding tissue to which it was distributed, being deprived of its supply of blood, atrophies and falls in, so that the course of the vein is indicated by a deep linear fissure. The consequence of such attacks must be the diminution, to a greater or less extent, of efficient hepatic parenchyma, and as the importance of this structure to the due performance of nutritive absorption is very manifest (were it attested only by the intimate relation in which it is placed with the portal blood), it seems very probable that the abiding emaciated and enfeebled condition of many persons who have suffered inflammatory attacks of the liver, really depends on their having been thus deprived of a greater or less part of this important organ. Partial obstruction of the portal trunk produces general wasting of the liver. Total obstruction is fatal. The spleen always becomes enlarged; in the case above referred to it weighed twenty-four ounces. Breaking down, or puriform softening of the thrombus, may produce abscess in the liver, but does not always do so. Perhaps, as in other instances of softening clots, this is only the case when the special poisoning of pysemia is present, and is conveyed to the organ by the softening clots. CONDITIONS PRODUCING JAUNDICE. The next morbid condition of the liver which we shall consider is that which exists in the various affections in which jaundice forms a prominent symptom. There is little doubt that in most cases a jaundiced condition of the liver precedes and occasions a similar condition of the whole body. General jaundice is com- monly supposed to depend upon the absorption into the blood of bile that should have passed out into the intestine, and this is, doubtless, the cause of it in many cases. In these, the bile locked up in the substance of the liver causes it to be tinged yeilow, a result which we have produced artificially by placing a ligature on the duct. com. choled. in animals. But in many cases