129 DEGENERATIONS. j local affection ; very rarely it appears to be idiopathic, or at least J 11 the • primary disease cannot be traced. By far the most frequent t idetermining cause is some long-continued suppuration, such as 1 .accompanies necrosis or caries of bone, chronic abscess, joint 1 ^disease, &c. In the same way it may follow pulmonary phthisis 1 -'where there is much inflammatory destruction of the lung, dilata- i jttion of the bronchi with suppuration, empyema, chronic intestinal < uulceration, pyelitis, cystitis, and, it is said, chronic ulceration of r. the skin. Syphilis is a very frequent precursor of waxy degenera- tition, and this usually when it takes the form of bone disease or * chronic ulceration; but by no means invariably, for cases occur ian which waxy degeneration of the kidneys is the most promi- mont symptom of constitutional syphilis. It is also believed 1 by Dr. Dickinson that this degeneration of the kidneys may ( Ocelli’ as a sequel to simple chronic inflammation of those organs (tubular nephritis), but the question will then suggest itself '■whether the waxy degeneration may not have been the primary ddisease. A chemical explanation has been proposed by Dr. Dickinson of tithe fact that in the immense majority of instances this form of i-Iegeneration is preceded by chronic suppuration. He finds that mi tissues affected with waxy degeneration the proportion of Alkaline salts (as determined in the ash left by ignition) is re- markably diminished, even to the extent of 25 per cent. ; while she proportion of lime is in some degree increased. He has also minted out that parts thus affected have lost the natural faint alkaline reaction of healthy tissues, and are neutral or acid, so as io longer to discharge the colour of indigo solution, but to become stained by it. They may thus be recognized as clearly as by the iodine reaction. Regarding the lardaceous substance, in accordance vith the latest analysis as allied to fibrin, Dr. Dickinson goes a •tep farther, and concludes that it is nothing more than fibrin tepnved of the alkaline salts which it naturally contains. Hence ie denominates it dealkalized fibrin, and has, by treating fibrin vith acids, produced a substance which somewhat resembles the ardaceous material in its reaction with iodine. Finally, the loss of alkaline salts is attributed by Dr. Dickinson to the chronic mrulent discharge, which is the usual antecedent of this disease, jus being^ found to contain a large proportion of potassium and odium. The name of depurative disease is hence applied to this orm of degeneration. Space does not permit any full discussion of this hypothesis. can °nly say that Dr. Dickinson’s theory appears by no means satisfactorily proved. We do not know how tar the deficient of ilkalme salts is peculiar to the state of waxy degeneration or whether it does not occur in other anaemic conditions of the tissues -here is no obvious connection between the loss of alkaline silts which may be neutral) and tho change of reaction; andfinallt no >roof has been offered that the fibrin, or any constituent of the IC