HYDROCEPHALUS. 249 probably also actual tubercle, though cases arising from the latter cause will generally be classed under the head of acute hydro- cephalus. Another cause appears to be the chronic inflammation of the ventricles already described. We have spoken of hydrocephalus throughout as of a disease of childhood, and it is to early life that it mainly belongs. Several cases are, however, on record of the affection having supervened in the adult when there was no trace of previous cerebral disease. If it be found that the diathesis upon which the disease is engrafted belongs equally to infancy and manhood, we shall easily be able to explain why the more prominent symptom of dropsical accumula- tion does not present itself frequently in the adult. The firm con- nection of the cranial bones, and the compression which they consequently exert, offer a mechanical impediment to the effusion which can only take place at the expense of some other contents of the skull. The very congestion of the veins, which for instance exists in cases of uraemia, would militate against it. Senile Hydrocephalus.—Several instances of an accumulation of serum in the cavity of the arachnoid, or in the ventricles, and not offering any marked traces of active hypersemia or inflammation occurring in advanced life, may be found in the works of Professor Golis, Dr. Baillie, and Dr. Watson. They have received the name of senile hydrocephalus, and such are the cases to which the term of serous apoplexy if retained ought to be restricted. The fact of Dean Swift having died ol this affection, may serve to fix the sub- ject in the memory. The immediate cause to which this may be most justly attributed is an atrophic condition of the brain, which gives rise to a vacuum, and hence to a discharge from the vessels, of that part of the blood which most readily transudes the coats; the effused serum is peculiarly clear, and its quantity varies accord- imi ex^en^ °^. cerebral atrophy, from two to six ounces, v! uQ exam^no into the morbid anatomy of the brain, we shall discuss the origin and causes of atrophy; we have here only to do with one of its products; but it is apparent that in tne present instance, as well as in the hydrocephalus of infants, the effusion is a symptom of a deeper-seated malady, and not truly an idiopathic affection. In senile, as well as infantile hydro- cephalus, the soft commissures, the septum, fornix, and adjoin- ing parts, are commonly found softened; but it is not always easy to form a positive opinion whether this is a primary or second- ary condition. It may be well also to mention that a sudden effusion of fluid either on tho surface or within the ventricles of the brain the serous apoplexy of some writers, has never been definitely proved to take place, and that the cases in which death is attributed to this cause are for the most part casos of tho senile hydrocophalus above described m which sudden death occurs from some other causes such as disease of the kidnoys or heart. ’