IXFLAMMATIOX OF THE UTERUS. T5S ing parts, may also be called pelvic peritonitis. It gives rise to the adhesions of the uterine and adjacent organs so often seen at post- mortem examinations. Parametritis is used to signify inflammation by the side of the uterus—that is to say, of the subperitoneal connective tissue, and corresponds to the older term pelvic cellulitis. It may lead to abscess or to simple chronic induration. It is chiefly important in post-puerperal conditions. Croupous, or Diphtheritic Inflammation.—In certain conditions faLse membranes, such as are seen in croup and diphtheria, are found on the uterine mucous membrane, chiefly as a secondary affection, in cases of typhus, cholera, the exanthemata, usually with similar affections of the vagina. Dysmenorrhvea Mtmbranacea.—False membranes forming a com- plete cast of the organ are sometimes thrown off, which must be carefully distinguished from those just mentioned. They are, in the words of Dr. Barnes, “ three-cornered bags, somewhat longer in one direction, having an irregular opening at each angle. The opening at the smaller end, which is wider than the others, corre- sponding to the os internum, the others with the ostia of the Fallo- pian tubes.” The membranes are rough ; on the outer surface they show ragged projections, corresponding to the uterine glands, the orifices of which are seen on the smooth inner surface. The mem- brane itself is composed of the epithelium, or nearly the whole mucous membrane of the uterus. These casts are thrown off during the menstrual period, with symptoms of dysmenorrhcea ; hence often accompanied by haemor- rhage. From its precise resemblance to the decidua of pregnancy, the membrane may be called a ‘‘menstrual decidua.” According to Dr. Barnes, a simply fibrinous membrane is sometimes expelled under the same circumstances. Some good examples of dysmenor- rhceal casts are in the Museum of St. Thomas’ Hospital. Ulceration.—Dr. T. Smith states that ulcers of the os uteri may be the primary result of inflammatory action, or arise from eruptive disorders of the mucous membrane, similar to herpes or eczema of the skin. But they more frequently result from the chronic irritation produced by the discharge from the cervix. This is confirmed by the fact that, except in eruptive disease, the os uteri is rarely found abraded, unless there is co-existent disease of the glandular portion of the cervix. Tubercular or scrofulous ulceratioTi produces deeper-seated destruction of its tissues: it gives rise to more profound ragged erosion on the surface and sides of the os, which, however, is not accompanied by that knotted induration which is generally characteristic of the carcinomatous ulcer. Nor is it marked by the same tendency to spread and involve adjoining parts in its destruction. In addition to the forms of ulceration already spoken of the uterus is subject to the specific ulcers of primary and secondary syphilis. Under the name of corroding ulcer, Dr. John Clarke