INFLAMMATION OF VEINS. 405 C- -recent disease to be found. The lungs, the heart, are noted as being healthy, so also the kidneys and the brain. The liver was found much enlarged and dark coloured, feeling soft at many points ; on removing it from the body, about two or three ounces of purulent matter escaped from the portal vein ; the organ, at the -same time, shrinking under the hand. On incising the liver, numerous bright yellow circumscribed spots appeared, closely f --resembling abscesses ; they varied in size from a pin’s head to a wal- nut. They proved to be all connected, occupying the ramifications nf the portal vein, gorged with pus, of a perfectly laudable appear- ance. On examining the portal vein, it presented close to the point at which the splenic and superior mesenteric meet, a puckered, r ulcerated appearance of its inner surface, extending for about an jnch towards the liver; the ulceration was found to have pene- trated through the inner coat, the edge of which was turned up and well defined towards the healthy part of the vein. The ducts j the hepatic vein were found healthy, as also the orifices of the 2 mesenteric and splenic veins. The surface of some of the portal tranches was smooth, and these only seemed implicated as recep- tacles for the pus, while, in others, the lining membrane was destroyed, and a layer of puriform matter substituted. The lepatic cells proved everywhere natural, the lobules were loaded vith yellow pigment in the middle, and there was marked hepatic ao. — tvuo maincu -LLCUchl/lU venous congestion, which, it may be observed, closely resembled 1 'ATI oocri nn lb« m 4-. 1 ,1 1 _ _ 1 mi Q / J *v W U «. congestion of the inter-lobular plexuses. The intestines were only tjartially examined, but so far appeared healthy. This case contra- ! licts the assertion of Rokitansky, that inflammation of the vena ioortie invariably induces purulent and ichorous abscesses in the iver, and abscesses in the lung, with a very highly developed ‘l oyaemia. No abscess was discovered either in the hepatic or pul- monary tissue, nor was there any post-mortem evidence of pyse- 1 nia> for tlle suppuration was limited, in the most remarkable manner, to the trunk and branches of the vena portre. In the cranium we meet with similar changes in the sinuses of he dura mater, as a consequence of direct injury, and not unfre- [uently as a result of otorrhcea and caries of the petrous portion or nastoid cells of the temporal bone. Cerebral thrombosis is neces- arily commonly associated with meningeal inflammation. It ■ppears that the sinuses of the dura mater are liable to a chronic orm of inflammation in children, leading to their obliteration and onversion into fibrous cords. Such a condition has been found 'Y ionnelle and by Gmtrac, in cases marked by symptoms of cere- 1 . congestion and apoplexy. The latter author * gives the fol- owuig case in illustration of this condition ; a child aged four •oars was liable from its birth to a temporary suspension of huntary movement. There were no premonitory symptoms and be attack occurred equally in the erect or recumbent position’; the aW-toSt p°2^rvati0n8’” I!ordCaUX' 183°- Quoted by Andral, “Clinique Modi-