OBSTRUCTION AND OBLITERATION OF VEINS. 409 which Rokitansky lays some stress, as found after repeated attacks of delirium tremens. Oculists treat of dilatation of the veins of the eye in various forms ; and instances of varix in other parts of the upper half of the body are recorded by authors. Thus, Cruveilhier * delineates two cases of varix affecting the arm. Varicose veins may prove dangerous, by giving rise to haemor- rhage, in consequence of ulceration or rupture. They are not like the arteries, subject to atheromatous disease, though occasionally they become obliterated by the formation of a coagulum, or spon- taneous inflammation and cohesion of the parietes. OBSTRUCTION AND OBLITERATION OF VEINS. An obliteration of portions of the venous system, from spon- taneous coagulation of the blood during life, is a not unfrequent occurrence, either from the pressure exerted by morbid growths, as aneurisms or cancerous tumours, or without such mechanical causes, from some cachectic condition, as, for instance, in a case of empyema that fell under our notice, in which, from the inferior cava downwards, the veins were plugged up with a fawn-coloured coagulum. They are not, however, limited to the veins of the inferior half of the body, though most frequently met with in the \ena cava inferior, and the portal vein. Dr. bright j records a case in which the longitudinal sinus was filled in a child of twenty months, another of a female aged seventeen, in whom the left jugular and subclavian veins were plugged with a firm coagulum, terminating abruptly just as they entered the cava, and a third, in a lemale aged twenty, in whom a white, fibrinous coagulum was found in the subclavian vein, extending two or three inches up the jugulars. In both the last cases the hardened veins were traced during life; the subjects were all in an extreme state of exhaus- tion. In these cases the coagulum can be easily removed from the channel of the vessel, and the coats of the latter present no evi- dence of inflammation in the shape of thickening or interstitial deposit, or roughening of the lining membrane. Another form of obliteration is that resulting from a chronic inflammation, and consequent adhesive process, set up by the advance of degenerative disease, such as tubercle or cancer. Thus Dr. Lee records two cases of abdominal phlebitis resulting from malignant disease of the uterus; and another of inflammation of the iliac veins in a man, from carcinoma, is related by Mr. Lawrence. NEW FORMATIONS. Tubercle never directly affects the vessels; it is not found deposited in the coats, nor is it found in their channels. • “ Anatomte Pathologique,” livr. xxiii. and livr. xxx + “ Medical Reports,” part ii. pp. 60, 64, 65.