720 ABNOKMAL CONDITIONS OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. Fig. 170. of its supply of blood from obliteration of the spermatic artery, injuries of the spinal cord, producing paraplegia, and probably therewith the loss of the nervous influence necessax-y for the gland, inflammation of its tissue—especially syphilitic inflammation— varicocele, over-excitement of the organ, the long-continued use of iodine, which is said to affect the female breast similarly, tuber- cular elephantiasis, injuries to the back of the head and nape of the neck, the pressure of effusions, and of large hernise, neuralgia, and any wasting disease,—all appear, on good evidence, to be occasional causes of atrophy of the part in question. The serous covei'ing of the testis, the tunica vaginalis, is liable to be attacked by acute inflammation, either primarily or by exten- sion from an inflamed testicle, and then suffers as other serous membranes do. The membrane becomes thickened and injected with blood, and is coated with a more or less considerable quantity of fibrinous exudation. Serum is at the same time effused into the cavity, and is rendered turbid by flakes of fibrine floating in it; and in rare instances suppuration of the membrane takes place. The unabsoi’bed fibrine very commonly foi-ms adhesions between the opposing surfaces, which, in time, become very fii'm and dense, and may obliterate the cavity. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis is the name given to the pear- shaped, translucent swelling caused by an undue accumulation of the fluid which is secreted by the serous membrane forming the tunica vaginalis. This accumulation may depend upon either an excessive secre- tion or a defective absorption of this fluid, and it is usually caused by some inflamma- tory action. The fluid is usually clear, and of a straw colour, but it may be quite colourless, green, turbid, slightly ruddy, or glistening with shining scales of choles- terine. Its quantity is sometimes very considerable; six quarts are said to have been withdrawn in the case of Gibbon, the great historian. The serous membrane in old hydroceles may be more or less thick- ened, and even the seat of calcareous de- posit. Adhesions formed between the two layers of the tunica vaginalis may. accord- ing to their length and extent, alter the usual position of the testicle, so that it ap- pears in front, instead of lying in its usual place at the posterior and lower part of the distended sac; or they may subdivide the cavity, and produce thus a multilocular hydrocele. The natural cul-de-sac which exists between the epididymis and the body ot the testicle, is some- Drawing- of larg:e hydro- cele, combined with scrotal hernia. Curling’s article on “ Tes- tis” Cyelop. Anat. and Pliys.