NEUBOMA. 313 Fig. 77. be exempt: several cases are recorded of tumours on the auditory nerve. * J Still rarer is the Neuroma amyelinicum, or tumour composed of grey non-medullated fibres; only two cases are described by Virchow himself, and we need therefore only refer to his work for further details. False Neuromata.—The greater number of tumours of nerves belong to the classes Fibroma, Myxoma, or sometimes Sarcoma, as these all agree to some extent in ' their mode of growth, and it is im- ' possible in all cases to be1 certain 1 to what kind of tumour the descrip- : tions of authors are intended to ap- ■ ply; we can only give a very general description, which will apply equally : to many cases of true neuroma. The idiopathic neuroma occurs 1 without any known cause, in the > shape of a round or oval tumour, ■> varying in size from a grain of ' wheat to that of a pumpkin, and in number from one to several hundred. - It must be classed among the non- i inflammatory growths. The tumour is generally solid throughout, though occasionally it contains a cavity. It ihas a tendency to increase in size, and the nerve-fibres are propor- tionately distended and separated. * It may generally be easily detached 'irrom the nerve. The structure most ■commonly seen is that of a dense web of fibres with scattered nuclei, ■coming under our definition of a -fibroma. In many cases the tumour -is soft, gelatinous, or semi-trans- parent, and would be described as a myxoma. Cystic cavities are sometimes formed, and occasionally ■contain a fatty emulsion, so that the tumour is of an atheroma- ious character. Dr. Smith t has published two cases of neuroma which are instances of the occasional extravagant production of -hese growths; in them almost every spinal nerve was closely ttudded with neuromata, which did not, howover, give rise to nauch uneasiness; in fact it appears, as also noticed by the same mthor, that they are rarely productive of much pain. Another A posterior tibial nerve, in which there is a circumscribed ovnl tumour, composed of a soft gTumous sub- stancs. The component fasciculi of the nerve are separated and spread out' around the tumour, the peroneal nerve is adherent to the surface of the neurilemma, extended over the tumour-. (Prom St. Bartholomew’s Museum, Series viii. No. 1.) • See case by Toynbee "Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1853, vol. iv. n rirrith, M.U '"&c°nDubiLa, ST’ DlttBU0His- aud Treata^t of Neuroma^by A. W. ■ 259, pi. ix. fig-. 1,