SECONDARY DEGENERATIONS OE THE SPINAL CORD. 305 Partial sclerosis or induration with patches of grey or gelatinous i degeneration, due to the new formation of connective tissue and • compression of nerve substance, has also been found in different jparts of the spinal cord, medulla oblongata and pons Varolii, in (cases of paralysis agitans. * Simple Degeneration of the Cord.—Degeneration of particular [parts of the cord unaccompanied by new formation of connective t tissue appears to occur, and to be the cause of disturbances of the (functions of the cord. The precise mode in which these degenera- ttions originate is not yet quite understood. Thus in progressive 'muscular atrophy or wasting palsy Dr. Lockhart Olarkef has ob- served at particular regions in the posterior grey matter, small sareas, streaks, patches, or spots of a delicate, finely granular, [transparent substance, apparently resulting from the disintegra- tion of nerve tissue. SECONDARY DEGENERATIONS OF THE SPINAL CORD. When the passage of nervous impressions is from any cause • completely suspended in the white columns of the cord, the sub- stance begins to degenerate from disuse ; and hence in cases of ['paralysis, whether central, from affections of the brain, or arising tifrom lesion at any point of tlie cord itself, ttie wliole nervous tract I between the seat of disease and the peripheral termination of the nnerve is liable to degenerate, and ultimately to become atrophied. | In the spinal cord these changes may sometimes be traced through lots whole length before there is any atrophy, and when it is pe*r- faectly healthy to the naked eye. The degenerated portions are '•sometimes seen on cross sections of the fresh organ as paler and more transparent, though often natural to the naked eye, than the • surrounding parts; when treated with carmine, they become un- : usually deeply coloured. The manner in which the change may wbe traced and thus shown to be secondary is shown in the diagrams ‘(rig. 74), representing the secondary changes in a case ofhemi- ' plegia depending on tubercle in the brain. L, These changes have been observed after various lesions of the rrof111’ aS emb°lism, tubercle, &c., but not after recent apoplexy, l lhey also occur in consequence of special lesions of the cord itself 1 (from tumours, &c.) below the part affected. I *n„tlie degenerated portions there was seen, beside the atrophy f and fatty degeneration of the nerve fibres, what appeared to be an (' increase of the connective tissue, which must, of course, have been '-secondary to the nervous atrophy. The ultimate result is probably simple atrophy, and thus it is only in an intermediate condition mat the changes just described can be traced. ^ Reynolda’B “ Sy3tem of Medicine," vol. ii. p. 199. Many refer- t Beale’s “Archives of Medicine," 1SC1. X