25 CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE SERUM. conditions unfavourable to fibre-development, but is more par- ticularly observed in the corpuscular varieties. It was shown by Mr. Gulliver that the puriform fluid often found in vessels was really flbrine which had undergone softening; and it was an important step to prove that such collections of pus-like matter were not the result of phlebitis; but in recognizing their non- inflammatory origin, perhaps, it has not been seen clearly how very similar, or even identical, they might be with certain forms of true pus. (3.) The flbrine may part with some of its natural moisture, and change into a resisting, stiff, dull, translucent, or also opaque, horny mass. In process of time it may become calcified. (4.) It may undergo fatty transformation, becoming converted into a mass of small, oily molecules or drops. (5.) It may gradually be dissolved and taken up again into tho circula- tion. Rokitansky mentions, as an instance of this, the removal of fibrinous vegetations from the cardiac valves. CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF THE SERUM. Albumen is the principal nitrogenous constituent of the serum, in which it exists, dissolved in water, in the proportion of 63 to 72 parts per 1,000 of blood. The specific gravity of the serum is on an average 1'028, and varies less than that of the entire blood. The serum is naturally of a light yellow colour, which does not appear to depend on the presence of haemoglobin or of bile pigment, but to be special to this fluid. We have already expressed our dissent from the doctrine that the flbrine is the sole or chief material intended for the growth and nutrition of the tissues, and fully believe that the albumen is quite as much or more applied to this purpose. We have no means at present of ascertaining numerous qualitative variations which probably affect the albumen of the serum. Indeed we cannot but believe that its composition must be liable to continual minute changes, as on the one hand nutritive material for various tissues is drawn off from it, and on the other, chyle, scarce yet raised to the blood-standard, and lymph, contain- ing effete or semi-effete residua of nutrition, aro poured into it. AH such, however, to a certain extent, are clearly natural; and were our powers of analysis greatly more refined, we should probably find that it was by the most gradual steps that physio- logical variations passed into morbid. Increase of Albumen.—The amount of albumen, according to Andral and Gavarret, is notably increased in various diseases; but this excess does not appear to be characteristic of any. In acute rheumatism an increase was found varying from 4 to 24in pneu- monia, the highest increase was about 12; in pleurisy, the extraor- dinary amount of 34 in excess was once observed ; and several other instances are mentioned of lower degree. Peritonitis, tonsillitis, and erysipelas all furnish cases in which there was more or less considerable increase of the albumen. This is the case also in