587 INFLAMMATION OF THE INTESTINE. widely scattered glands in the mucous membrane of some persons, even when it was examined after immersion in acetic acid, which makes them much more opaque and white, while in other cases they were extremely numerous and close together. These structures, both the solitary and agminated glands, are liable to hypertrophic and hyperplastic changes in various morbid conditions of the mucous membrane, which changes are liable, in certain diseases, to end in degeneration and necrosis. Simple inflammation, chronic or acute, of the mucous surface, leads to ' enlargement chiefly of the solitary glands. This may go on to sloughing and ulceration. In tuberculosis of the intestines the lattei changes are the most conspicuous, but here also there is at : first a stage of proliferation and enlargement. In some of the • specific fevers, especially in typhoid, a similar series of changes is ' sGen, chiefly affecting the Peyer’s patches. It does not appear 1 that the process ever precisely resembles suppuration. Dysentery : is accompanied first by enlargement, then by sloughing of the : solitary glands of the colon. Follicular Ulceration of the Colon.—We shall now subjoin Roki- t tansky’s account of “ ulcerative inflammation of the follicles of the colon, such as we find in lientery, brought on by tedious i dianhceas. Ihe lollicles are at first tumefied in various decrees ‘ an(J consequently project as smaller or larger, round, conical : nodules on the internal surface of the intestine, being surrounded t by a daik red vascular halo. Ulceration now ensues in the . interior of the follicle, the small abscess penetrates the mucous membrane within the vascular halo, and a fringed ulcerated open- lna. , e Slze of a millet-seed appears, which leads to a small iolhcular abscess with red spongy walls. The ulceration con- tinues, and the follicle is eaten away,” so that an ulcer of the size ot a pea or lentil is formed. In its further progress the mucous membrane becomes extensively destroyed, and that with great rapidity, the muscular coat being frequently exposed. The most extensive destruction always takes place in the sigmoid flexure and in the rectum. The disease is always confined to the colon,’ out when it runs a very rapid course it may be accompanied bv catarrhal irritation of the small intestine. We have notes of a case in which there were a great number of the so-called solitary lolucles m the lower part of the small and in the large intestine although no irritation had existed during life. Their development eems to depend on some other cause besides mere irritation K thTls- ho doubt, promotes it. It can scarcely be supposed that the Lieberkuehn tollicles^which are mere involuted exten- sions ot the mucous surfinSf should not be affected wherever ■e9seenTialTvUSinmefmbrfne iS’ but 8lands- which differ involved structuro> seem to be by no means necessarily J^rT0m ^Minmation.—We proceed to the rare form of tentis, termed by Cullen E. Phlegmonodea. This, if it deserves