OSTEOMYELITIS AND OSTITIS. 832 in atrophic conditions of the body, when the corpuscles waste and the vessels expand to fill their place. A creamy, or mottled con- dition, is seen, on the other hand, in conditions of abundant nutrition when the lymph corpuscles are veiy plentiful, as in the spleen in similar conditions. The signs of inflammation of the medulla are a vivid or scarlet injection, with purulent infiltration,* small spots of suppuration, or scattered abscesses. If the inflam- mation be intense the whole spongy tissue may be softened and break down at a touch, leaving a thin external shell of bone only. Part or whole of the fat is at the same time absorbed, so that we find red medulla at parts where yellow normally occurs. If localized this process may of course lead to abscess, identical with that described under the head of ostitis. This disease is of great importance, as it frequently leads to pyaemia, a fact easily understood, if we remember the intimate relations of the medullary tissue to the blood; and this, whether we suppose a specific poison to he present or not. This connection has been especially noticed in military surgery, f Ostitis.—The first stage of this form of hone inflammation has already been described. In its second stage it either passes on to hardening or sclerosis, or else to suppuration. The sclerotic ostitis consists of the formation of fresh layers of bone around the vessels. It must be regarded as essentially the same process as goes on in the ossification of vascular tissue without formation of cartilage. In bone thus affected the Haversian canals are found small, and the ftexture particularly hard and ivory-like. The spongy part of the bone may also be condensed by a similar pro- cess, new osseous matter being deposited on the inner surface of the cancelli; and may thus come to be quite as hard as the compact part of the bone. The medullary cavity may be partly filled up in the same way. This process is seen in the ends of long bones in chronic rheumatic arthritis, formerly described, also as an ac- companiment of other forms of inflammation of bone, and in some cases of repair, such as the closing of the medullary canal after amputation. Suppurative ostitis, or abscess, is developed out of the rarefactive stage of inflammation by filling of the dilated spaces and canals with pus. The partitions are gradually softened and break down, till a cavity is formed just as in abscess of soft parts. There may be very general suppuration, so that a con- siderable portion of the bone is destroyed; in which case it is always complicated with osteomyelitis; or else limited suppuration, forming an abscess cavity. The latter affection was first clearly distinguished by Sir Benjamin Brodie. In the first case recorded hy him the lower end of the tibia is described, as vascular on the surface and hardened around the cavity, which was smooth, and filled with dark coloured pus. There is a distinct pyogenic * See figure in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol.xv). pi. 12. + Holmes, “ St. George’s Hospital Reports,” vol. l.; Medical Department,” vol. xiii. p. 244. but see “ Reports of the Army