CANCER AND OTHER NEW GROWTHS IN THE LUNG. 517 £ “ Trans. Bath. Soc.," vol. xx. p. 25. 1809. Cancer of the Lung.—The variety of true cancer found most commonly in the lung is the medullary. If, however, the name be taken in the strict sense given to it in the first part of this work, it is not of frequent occurence; and is almost always secondary. Undoubted cases of primary cancer, though rare, have neverthe- less been put on record. Dr. Walshe, in his work on Cancer, refers to a few; but with respect to some of them, it may be doubtful whether they were precisely what we now mean by cancer. Passing by earlier observations, we may refer to some in the “ Transactions of the Pathological Society.” * The primary tumours are usually solitary, somewhat large masses; the secondary growths are sometimes in the form of multiple nodules, sometimes of an infiltration. Occasionally they seem to enter the lung from the pleura, on the surface of which they form flat plates or sheets. When projecting on the surface they are often cupped or umbilicated, like similar growths in the liver. The contraction of several such masses may produce a Eeneral puckered and fissured appearance like that of cirrhosis. oftening of the tumours may produce cavities which give the same physical signs as the vomicoe of phthisis, and broken down lung tissue with elastic fibres may under such circumstances be found in the expectoration. Other modes of growth of pulmonary cancer are as follows.f It may be prolonged from the pleural covering inwards by the interlobular septa, and thus divide the lung into a series of irregular polygons. It may also spread along the bronchial tubes, affecting first their exterior; next, the substance of the walls; and finally, the mucous membrane, along which it may extend almost indefinitely, forming, occasionally, casts like those of plastic bronchitis. Or again, it may implicate the vessels, especially the veins, and either occlude them, or grow into their cavity. Sarcomata of the lung occur occasionally as secondary formations, subsequent to similar growths in other parts of the body; the spindle-celled form most frequently. Melanotic sarcoma is also found under similar circumstances. These growths form distinct tumours, not infiltrations, and grow in the walls of the alveoli, not within the air spaces. Dr. Wilks j speaks of having once seen a primary tumour of this character (fibrous or fibrocellular growth) m the lung. Ossifying sarcomata (one form of osteoid cancer) may also occur secondarily in the lung.§ Scirrhous cancer also occurs in the lung, most frequently as a consequence of primary scirrhus of the mamma. In such cases it commences in the pleura. Colloid has also occurred in the lung as a secondary growth. Upitholioina of the lung is excessively rare. In a case reported ♦ t Bnstowe, vol. xi. p. 34 (but perhaps a sarcoma). Fange, vol xviii ■ n 00 Bristowe, “Trans. Bath. Soc.,“ vol. xi. p. 25. 1800 1 “Trans. Path. Hoc.,’’ vol. Lx. p. 31.