PARASITES IN BONE. * “ Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. x. p. 278. 8G3 tissue is particularly liable to decay, through a species of fatty degeueratiou, leading to the production of a dry yellow, sometimes cheesy mass, which may in the end become completely absorbed. AYhen this happens a depression is usually left in the skull, showing the participation of the bony tissue, which is usual in so-called peri- osteal affections. Actual suppuration is rare. Sometimes a more fibrous mass results, which is permanent for a long time ; or, on the other hand, ulceration may ensue; though this will not be formidable unless the central part of the bone be also affected. This combination does, however, sometimes present itself', and syphilitic ostitis, or osteomyelitis, may accompany the periosteal affection; as they may also occur independently. The medulla, aud especially that portion of it contained in the spongy bone and diploe, is here the seat of the morbid process. This may, as in its more superficial seat, produce gummatous tumours, which undergo caseation, while the bony tissue included within them perishes (by necrosis), and various processes of demarcation, as suppuration, granulation, or osteosclerosis are set up around. Tne tumours thus produced are, however, not considerable. Syphilitic caries and necrosis are properly treated under this head, since they are not, as Mr. Holmes well remarks, primary affections of the bones, but the result and termination of nodes, or of inflammation of the bone, or of ulceration in the sofc parts around. Syphilitic ulceration of bone occurs in two forms. In the first, or annular, a small carious spot appears first, aud a wide ring of bone surrounding this is ultimately separated by a sequestrating furrow, so that a depression much larger than the original spot is formed. This is a combination of caries with necrosis. The “ tubercular ’' ulceration begins with syfihilitic inflam- mation of the compact tissue, which causes an elevation on the sur- face. The inflamed bone soon becomes dotted over with numerous little pits, or depressions, which coalesce, and form ulcers, usually oval or round, penetrating deeply into the interior of the bone. By the confluence and extension of these forms, especially the annular, complicated or reticulated forms are produced. The severer forms of caries occur in cachectic constitutions, or, as is thought, when much mercury has been taken. They are less frequent now than formerly. PARASITES. Hydatid or echinococcus cysts occur very rarely in bone. A very remarkable instance is described by Mr. Keate,* in which a lar^e tumour in the frontal bone of a young woman, aged eighteen, was formed by the development of hydatids bot ween "the plates of the