507 CHRONIC PHTHISIS (MIXED AND TUBERCULAR). tubercle in the vascular wall, and being, as we have shown before, an essential feature in the growth of tubercle (p. L94). Another source of caseous material must not be overlooked, viz., the degeneration of effused blood. This gives rise, as is well known, to dry crumbling material, which may soften and liquefy in the same way as the cheesy masses of phthisis, and as a matter of fact capillary haemorrhage into the alveoli often takes place, as seen m Fig. 110, so that in this way a certain amount of caseous mattei may be produced.. Indeed, an old haemorrhagic infarction (p. 474) has, at a certain stage, much resemblance to “ crude tubercle. Formation of Cavities or Vomicae.—Destruction of the lung with formation of cavities is the most constant and important of morbid changes m chronic phthisis. It results partly from the necrosis or slow decay just described, and partly from inflamma- tion and suppuration. So the phthisical cavity or vomica is not precisely an abscess, nor merely the result of local death or necrosis. It should be remembered that the lung tissue is exposed to the air and to the putrefactive influences brought by it, so that decay will be more rapid and more resemble ordinary putrefaction '■as 111 totor) than necrosis in secluded parts of the body. In vomicre there have often been found the minute organisms i (micrococci and bacteria) which accompany putrefaction. ter the first production of tubercle is completed, the morbid diathesis may as it were, have exhausted itself and the process nters into a state of abeyance, all active symptoms being arrested: or the inflammatory action is perpetuated and the course is con- tinuous to the fatal termination. In the former case every recur- rence of bronchitic or pneumonic inflammation finds a nidus of tubercle around which fresh matter is deposited, or which becomes an additional source of irritation. In both cases a process of iueS “nun and pus are secreted from the parts in ic e morbid deposit has been effected, the intervesicular septa are more and more absorbed and broken down, the softened matter dnds its way into the larger bronchi and is expectorated, a mixture ■f?Ua’ melanotic, oily and granular matter, interspersed with epithelium and the elastic fibres of the lungs, and the result is a cavity m the pulmonary tissue. The walls of this cavity may be more or less ragged, and be more or less lined with caseous latter, or present no traces of it, according to the date of its for- mation tubercular cavities or vomicte were formerly often mis- Wafii f.r. genuine abscesses, and wore sometimes called ulcers. to JiJ aiU numbe”’ tbere ™ay bo but one, or so many as enffi,?8 entme iung a nddled or honeycomb appearance when TuL ,1 ; 18 f,ar0’ as. Laennec observes, to find a single cavity f hej vary equally in size, from a pea to a man’s fist, and more St ofTt^Zmtl™ th° aLsCCSS and the bronchus passing out of it resembles a fistulous opening, the peculiar relation of which to respiration causes many of the phenomena of ausculta-