CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OVARIES. 77G gelatinous matter, and even more solid colloid material. The fluids always contain albumen and modifications of it, called paralbumen and metalbumen ; also a fibrinogenous substance, like many serous effusions. The above characters also belong to the fluid of simple cysts. The thick, viscid, and gelatinous matters often found in compound cysts are of different chemical constitution, containing mucin ; but whether this is the real constituent of the former coh loid masses is still uncertain. These matters are coloured, yellow, brown, or green, in various shades, probably by an admixture of blood. Cholesterine is sometimes found, and also much detached epithelium. Size of Ovarian Cysts.—As is well known, these form some of the largest tumours ever known in the human body. Specimens weighing 40 or 50 pounds have often been met with. Klob men- tions one of 150 and another of 196 (German) pounds in weight, which is perhaps the largest tumour ever described, except the fatty tumour before mentioned (p. 139). Structure of the Walls.—This point is very important, as it is thought to contain the key to the formation of ovarian cysts. The walls are composed essentially of connective tissue similar to that of the stroma of the ovary, in which are contained very frequently minute cysts, either visible to the naked eye or under the microscope. With these are seen indications of the Graafian follicles or similar structures, which are, as some think, wasting and gradually being destroyed; according to others, there are many still in a rudimen- tary stage. Further are structures which many observers regard as the commencement of minute cysts, viz., in the words of Forster, collections of roundish or oval cells, closely pressed toge- ther, in the midst of the connective tissue. Some of these are in a state of colloid degeneration, and thus form the contents of a microscopic cyst. The outer cells show transition to epithelium and a fibrous sac. Masses of developing connective tissue, or sarcoma-like structure, are often seen.* Another structure to which much importance has been attached is that of glandular tissue, i.e., epithelial cells in a tubular form. This tissue is very abundant in certain ovarian tumours, which have been called adenomatous, or glandular. No similar tissue is seen in the mature, healthy ovary, but in the course of the develop- ment glandular tubes, described by Pfliiger, appear to be steps in the formation of the Graafian follicles. This glandular tissue is seen to pass into a state of colloid degeneration, or to produce col- loid substance; so that it is believed the colloid masses in compound cysts may be formed in this way, and that all transitions may be found up to the largest cavities. Theory of the Formation of Compound Cysts.— From what has been said, it will be seen that all observers regard the minute cysts * Figured by Mr. Arnolt in Dr. Barnes* “ Diseases of Women,” p 321.