COMPLICATION’S OP PHTHISIS. 511 bation of the process actually constituting the disease. It appears in each case to cause an extension of the morbid process, and not to be the result of the previous elimination of tubercle. The pleurisy accompanying tubercle may supervene at various periods, and by the adhesions it causes and the consequent increased immobility of the lung, it necessarily much favours the development of the tubercular process. That the tubercular disease has a tendency to ' excite pleurisy, is evident from the frequency with which the latter occurs at the apices of the lungs, often forming a complete car- I tilaginoid cap from which it is difficult or impossible to detach the lung entire. When tubercular excavations approach close to the 1 pleural surface, and are not preceded by thickening of the pleura as generally occurs, a perforation may take place, inducing effusion i ot air and liquid into the cavity and secondary inflammation • 1 we .then have _ to deal with hydro-pneumothorax, upon which a rapidly fatal issue is almost certain to follow. Mere cellular • adhesions, according to Eokitansky, cannot prevent this termina- tion; they are, m part, mechanically loosened by the effusion from the cavern, and being involved in the pleuritic process, they are in part likewise destroyed m the exudation. Eokitansky describes . three forms m which the communication between the tuberculous cavity and the sac of the pleura may be established ; the pulmonary ■pleura may be detached from the affected surface by the mere force of the an- rushing in so as to form a bulla, which afterwards bursts ; t may be converted into a whitish eschar which tears or becomes .detached unbroken, or the pleura, together with the infiltrated ^parmdiymasurron ruling the cavern, may become gangrenous and be converted into pulpy matter. of Pulmonary tubercle with tubercular disease in other organs is of very common occurrence; Louis* found tuberculous ulceration in the intestines in five-sixths of the cases nrrlf-fa?Te<i’ tbe Emphatic glands were affected in the following axillir^ frequeuW : the bronchial most, next the mesenteric, the Sln’l m+e^C0llC1- lumbar> and cervical; the spleen and kidneys BjSH tubofl;cular Products m about one-sixth of the cases ; info t„LmeS, the P1'°®tate was fouil<1 more or less transformed tuberculous matter, and tubercle was also met with in nr«Jle;i?bral ara?]lnoid> though the frequency is not stated. The Lt* ng condition of the liver in pulmonary phthisis is one of Wth d®f ne!'abou/, Louls found ^ fatty in one-third of his cases \ith regara to the co-existence of pulmonary tubercle with mbercular disease m other organs, the general law has been es ;abhshed, that wherevor, after the age of fifteen, tubercles present of tt,i ™—ess Obsolescence of Tubercle.—When the tubercular products in fLo >mgs do not advance and undergo the progressive^hanges which * “ Researches on Phthisis," Sj d. Soc. ed., p. lfip.