626 DEGENERATIONS OF THE LIVER. from the middle of the diaphragm to the liver; (e) veins descend- ing from the abdominal wall above the umbilicus by the sus- pensory ligament to the left longitudinal fissure of the liver. At their upper origin they stand in communication, on the one hand, with the mammary and epigastric veins; on the other, with the superficial veins of the abdomen. Some of this group, surround the obliterated umbilical vein, and sometimes communicate with it, as before mentioned. In a case in which, with well-marked cirrhosis, there was an entire absence of ascites, we observed plexuses connecting the capsule of the liver with the supra-renal veins, and thus with the veins of the diaphragm ; on the left side also with the renal vein. As several of these collateral channels open into the azygos veins, these vessels are always found enlarged, of course, especially the right, and convey a considerable proportion of the accessory circulation. DEGENERATIONS OF THE LIVET. Under this head we include—(1) Fatty degeneration; (2) Paren- chymatous or albuminous degeneration; (3) Lardaceous degenera- tion; (4) Pigmentary degeneration. (1.) Fatty Degeneration.—The first degenerative condition oitRe liver which we shall describe is that of fatty degeneration. A liver thus affected is usually much enlarged, paler than natural, and in most cases softer; sometimes, however, it has a feeling ot great solidity. The capsule, in cases of uncomplicated fatty degenera- tion, is not thickened, nor attached by adhesions to adjacent parts. The thin edge of the organ is somewhat rounded, and the thickness < generally increased. On microscopic examination, it is at once seen that the hepatic cells are engorged with oil; instead ot con- taining a few minute drops imbedded in a mass of granuious < matter, they are filled to the extent of one-half or two-thirds, or even their whole cavity, with colourless fluid oil. Sometimes a Quantity of yellow matter is also seen m the cell-eayity, together with the oil, but this is often absent. The nucleus disappears, a* is generally the case in cells that have fulfilled their work of secretion, but the envelope persists, and is sometimes a little thickened and striated. In very advanced cases the cells are not found merely gorged with oil, but, to a great extent, iro -en F and lost; in their place there are seen only granular debris, e tangling multitudes of oil drops of different sizes. There - to be less tendency to the development and growth of young cem than in the healthy state, those that are forming appear stunted, and many become very early, affected noth orly dep^t. Tins seems to show that one very important function of the ‘’ nue- such cases is, at least, very imperfectly discharged It^ *n mif resting fact, that the bile in these cases undergoes no constant