438 THE LARYXX. mucous tissue itself, in which case they are small, flat, shallow de- pressions ; or else arise in the mucous follicles, when they are deeper and more’ conical. Neither of these forms extends deeply or causes any serious destruction. . (2) Syphilitic ulcers are much more serious than those just men- tioned They begin mostly at the side of the epiglottis, and form sometimes very deep excavations. They have brightly injected and a swollen edges from which warty growths often arise, if they heal they produce very hard contracting scars which may cause j considerable narrowing of the passage. Sometimes the ulceration spreads very widely, over a large portion of the mucous surface of the larynx, and may extend to the trachea. Under the uicers there is always much thickening and infiltration with lymphoid C°)l^Tvphoid ulcers. In the course of typhoid fever, ulcers some- - times form on the mucous surface of the larynx. They are (accord- ing to Forster) irregular, angular, deep, with villous margin and base ; and arise from a new formation of small cells in the mucous j membrane leading to sloughing. They are not usually deep, but; still a remarkable case is recorded by Ur. Wilks, in which an ulcer of this kind situated behind, at the junction of the vocal chords, had quite perforated the wall, admitting air and mucus into a space in front of the oesophagus. The air which thus made, its way into the posterior mediastinum penetrated into the thoracic walls, and; nroduced general subcutaneous emphysema. (41 Variolous ulcers are produced in the course of smaU-pox, by the formation and rupture of pustules on the mucous surface. Ulceration of the larynx also occurs m glanders. Tubercular or Phthisical Affections of the Larynx;; Phthisis.-It is very common m cases of pulmonary phthisis to find catarrh swelling of the follicular structures, and ulceration of the l'irvnx ’ The latter has been generally described as tubercular, but much doubt exists whether the disease originates m or is even in most cases accompanied by the formation of tubercles even w these are undoubtedly present m the lungs. Sometimes, Tou not commonly, tubercles are found m the parts surrounding the ulcer. Hence the greatest diversity of opimon has prevailed anion. PaTh°e1s°egultcers may be scarcely udder than a large piiTshead bu by their confluence produce broad irregular patches. Their edge, are often thickened or indurated, sometimes givingorigmtopapd- lary growths. The surrounding parts are injected but less. ^ that in ^syphilitic disease. Rokitansky states that tubercle is depo in the form of grey granulations m the submucous areola, tissue^r as ydlow caseous matter, infiltrated into, the mucou membrane. He has found it constantly and exclusively in th vicinity of the transverse muscles and the adjacent arytrenoid c * “ Pathological Transactions,” 1S5S, vol. ix. p. 31.