COMPLICATIONS OF PHTHISIS. •318 entire absorption of tubercular matter may take place without a metamorphosis of this kind, or without the formation of a cavity, is a question which we are not prepared to answer positively, though there is no certain proof to the contrary. That the healing process is not limited to the first stages of the disease, but is also seen after the formation of cavities, is established by the unani- mous testimony of the best observers. Andral remarks that traces of cicatrization are found in individuals, who at one period of their life have been subject to a severe affection of the respiratory organs, which was legarded as phthisis, or in such as have been cured of a previous pulmonary attack, but have succumbed to a subsequent . one of the same character, or, lastly, in persons who from the first < day of their cough have continuously grown worse, in whom, • Slerefoi'e’ a^er cicatrization of one cavity new ones had formed. The cavities may disappear altogether, leaving a dense white ! nbrous tissue ramifying irregularly in the surrounding tissue, or : the obliteration is incomplete, the cavity remains partially open, and the character of the lining membrane undergoes a change assimilating it to a serous membrane, or, which is more commonly i the case, converting it into a vascular villous covering, resemblin'1, a mucous membrane. Rokitansky states that, in the latter case, aneunsmal dilatation, or a gelatinous degeneration of the vessels - subjacent to the membrane, is liable to give rise to haemorrhage into the cavity, which either proves fatal, or else, by coagulating 1 UP the vessel, becomes a further means of oblitera- tion and ultimate cure. Tuberde in Early Life.—Before quitting the subject of pulmonary . KT.rC,e’ ^ave allude to certain differences which exist j Between the manifestation of the disease in early life and later years. In the former instance the lungs are much less liable to j Become the seat of the disease than they are in the latter; it is .more commonly simultaneously produced in a greater number of organs; and while, according to the extensive researches of Messrs. Kiuiet and Barthez, which are confirmed by those of Dr. West, the yellow form of tubercle ” largely predominates, there is a remark- ‘ aoie immunity from tubercular cavities. The cavities that do occur are much smaller in proportion, and, though occasionally very numerous, do not give rise to the same amount of destruction 11 i Pulmonary tissue that we see in the adult. The differences a mded to may bo accounted for, partly by the greater share the nutritive organs take in all the functions of early life, and partly By the proclivity existing in the lungs to lobular inflammation, ino latter circumstance renders it probable that a minute exami- nation of tubercle in the infant, would exhibit a greater production nt pus coincidently with the elimination of tuborcular matter ri nwS f?Uml m the adult Wo extract the following table from ,11 )Ve8t 8 classical work on tho diseases of childhood, as the best KiS °\that °an ?ffe,red of the rolation borne by tubercle to ne different organs of the body in early and advanced life. L L