INFLAMMATION. 86 play of forces between the vessels and their contents. Mr. Lister’s* experiments, published since the iirst edition of this work, strongly support the views that the primary change is not in the blood. He attributes stasis to some influence of the tissues on the blood circulating in them, which brings it into the same condition, with respect to cohesiveness of its corpuscles, as that of blood drawn from the body. Mr. Wharton Jones formerly con- ceived that it was the nervous influence which prevented the red corpuscles from aggregating together within the vessels, as they do out of the body, and that stasis depended on the suspension of this influence. It was an ingenious and probable opinion, but is disproved by the experiments which he himself has performed, and which are related in the Astley Cooper Prize Essay. All that can be said respecting the alterations in the vessels themselves, may be found in Dr. Sanderson’s essay. With regard to stasis, he adopts the same explanation as with respect to exuda- tion of serum and cells, believing it to be due not to the properties of the red corpuscles, but to an abnormal condition of the vessels; and quotes some experiments of Byneck,t which showed that other fluids, such as milk, circulating in irritated vessels, are also liable to stagnation. Mr. Lister had previously shown that healthy blood stagnates in the vessels of a part exposed to the action of irritants. None of these experiments, however, show that the original change is not one outside the vessels, in the tissues, by which the vascular wall is secondarily affected. Our limits forbid discussion; and we therefore simply pass on to state our own opinion, so far as we may venture to offer one, on this qucestio vexata. We saw reason to believe that the tissues, in virtue of their nutrition power, exercised an influence on the move- ment of the blood: that in active hypersemia their attractive force was increased ; and we would now add, that it is through the failure of this nutrition power that we believe stagnation takes place. The exact nature of the influence exercised by the tissues over the blood, which traverses the capillary channels, is unknown. All that we can discern is, that it is such as promotes its free passage through them j and therefore, when it is in abeyance or greatly altered, it is to be expected that the circulation will be interrupted also. More than this we cannot gather from the observed phenomena, and we would only offer the lemaik, in conclusion, that in coincidence with the establishment of complete stasis, cessation of the natural function of the part occurs, and other processes commence—the exudative, in which the plasma, that in a healthy state would have ministered to and maintained healthy action, is consumed in wasteful or even destructive changes. Whether the stasis depend solely on a persistence and exaggeration of the attraction of the tissues for the blood which exist in active hyperaemia, or upon this and an abolition of the natural non- *“ Philosophical Transactions,” 1858. + Iloilo It’s “ Untersuchungen, Leipzig, 1S70, p. 103.