MELANOSIS AND MELANOTIC TUMOURS. 163 the side of a vessel; so also in the abundant formation of black pigment which takes place in the liver of the frog at certain times there is not the least reason for regarding it as specially derived from the red colouring matter of the globules, but much more for supposing it to proceed from some of the highly carbonized matters contained in the liquor sanguinis. Small particles of coal, having the peculiar “pitted ” structure of coniferous wood, have been found in the interior of the lungs of coal workers by Traube. It has, however, been shown that the occurrence of minute haemorrhages is another cause of the pig- mentation of lungs.* In this instance, as in many others, truth lies intermediate between opposite opinions. It also occurs in the bronchial glands, its quantity in them being usually in proportion to that in the lungs: it is here raiely contained in cells. In the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, ot the uterus, and occasionally of the air-passages, it is generally the result of the irritation of chronic catarrh, and is derived from altered hsematine. In the mesen- teric glands, co-existing with such deposits in the mucous tissue, it produces a slaty grey, or still darker discoloration, spotted or uniformly diffused. In the sympathetic ganglia, in the skin. either naturally, in the dark races, or as the local discolora- tions, termed “melasma.” In new formations, as intravascular coagula, atheromatous patches, and their cicatrices, in hsemor- rhagic masses, false membranes of inflammatory origin, tubercle, especially the haemorrhagic variety, colloid matter, and can- cerous growths. Lastly, melanotic matter occurs in fluid exuda- tions, and in the cavities of cysts. Eokitansky is of opinion a , .°^ ^e ^lack pigment from the colouring a er o the blood is a settled point. We are rather inclined to agree with him than with Dr. Walshe, who thinks “that the relation of true melamc cell pigment to the constituents of the blood is altogether unknown.” It is quite certain that, in au the instances above mentioned, except that of the air cavities i , ,e tongs, the melanic matter proceeds in some way from the j the■ question is, howf Is there first extravasation ot e blood, exudation of its hsematine, and conversion of this into e pigment, or is this produced from the liquor sanguinis, in some unknown way of secretion P The chemical composition of melanotic matter is not accuratelv Known, but is found to differ very much in different specimens. The black pigment of the eye was found by Lehmann to contain A per cent, ot iron. All analyses, however, show a large proportion of carbon—at least oO per cent. It is quite insoluble in water, alcohol1 s ow? °[.dlli“8: but clocomP°sod by strong nitric acid and slowly dissolved by strong alkalies. b and It thus appears impossible to separate a distinct class of mcla- • Rindfleiseli. “ Pathologische Gewebelehre,” p. 356. First edition