ULCERATION OF TILE STOMACH. 50S well as from pains in the stomach, hut have generally been able to pursue their avocations, and to take their food, up even to the period of the fatal seizure.” Ilonmorrhage and Perforation.—The ulcer, especially when seated near the smaller curvature, is apt to involve some arterial branch, from which blood is poured out in abundance. The haemorrhage may be so copious as to destroy life at once, but more frequently death does not occur till after repeated attacks. The deeper the ulcer has extended the larger in general are the vessels it meets with, and the more serious, in consequence, the loss of blood. It has happened, that an ulcer, after perforating the coats of the stomach, has lighted upon the pancreatic duct and produced a fistulous opening into it. The most dangerous situation for an ulcer to occupy is the lower half or two-thirds of the anterior surface of the stomach, as, in case of perforation, there is no organ to which it can easily become adherent. On the posterior surface, adhesions form between the stomach and pancreas, or the adjoin- ing lymphatic glands, and on the upper and pyloric part of the anterior surface the escape of the gastric contents into the peritoneal cavity is sometimes prevented by the left lobe of the liver. In a remarkable case, recorded in the Report of the Patho- logical Society, 1847-48, p. 252, the barrier opposed to the_exten- sion of an ulcer by the left lobe of the liver proved insufficient, as the destructive process continued until it perforated the diaphragm, and gave rise to hepatisation and a gangrenous cavity in the lower lobe "of the left lung. These ulcers may heal at any period of their course ; it is not uncommon to find the cicatrices, which are their results, on the inner surface of the stomach. There can be no doubt that a production of fibroid tissue is the means whereby the reparation is effected. This takes place both in the margins of the ulcer, producing thickening and subsequent contraction, and also at the base, which it lines with a thin smooth layer. Cicatrices of this kind present a depression of the size of the ulcer, sur- rounded by thickened and elevated margins; others, where more contraction has taken place, are of a linear or corded shape. Haemorrhagic erosion of the gastric mucous membrane is thus de- scribed by Rokitansky :—“ There are round or roundish spots of the size of a pin’s head or pea, or narrow elongated streaks, at which the mucous membrane appears dark red, lax, soft, bleeding, and presenting a depression in consequence of loss of substance or slight erosion. Sometimes this loss of substance involves the entire thickness of the mucous membrane and the submucous cellular tissue, and produces an appearance of small round or striated ulcers. This process is invariably accompanied by hcemorrhage,” the effused blood being mixed in a more or less altered state with gastric mucus, which is poured out by the mem- brane affected with recent or inveterate catarrhal inflammation. The erosions are often very numerous, studding perhaps everv part of the stomach, with the exception of the fundus; their cine