ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SPLEEN- 657 blocks correspond to the areas marked by the terminal division of branches of the splenic artery., where they break up into the diverging brush of small twigs called the penicillium. The blocks are accordingly wedge-shaped or pyramidal, with the apex towards the hilus of the spleen; and in the typical cases coinciding with the ultimate breaking up of the artery. Coagulation once set up in this space may, however, extend beyond its limits, so that the shape becomes irregular. The cause of the arrest of the circula- tion must be, in most cases, the obstruction of the artery, but it is not quite clear whether a somewhat similar condition may not result from blocking of the vein. The arterial obstruction is not always produced by the same cause. Sometimes it is due to embolism, and hence, in a large number of cases of blocks in the spleen, we find cardiac disease, and especially vegetations on the valves. But sometimes no such antecedents can be demonstrated, and it appears that there must be spontaneous coagulation of blood in the artery, perhaps assisted by some diseased condition of the arterial wall, or from some mor- bid condition of the blood. This is especially the case in fevers, where blocks sometimes occur without any source of embolisms'. In either case infarction results in the manner already traced, and the block, once formed, goes through the changes described above (p. 397). . In the end, a mass of fibrous tissue results, which shrinks into a i cicatrix, and after a time nothing but a depression on the surface imay remain, unless, as sometimes happens, calcification occur. The accompanying hypersemia and inflammation always cause : some swelling of the gland, which, if the blocks are numerous, as : they often are, may be very considerable. This is, perhaps, the ' “ost frequent cause of the splenic enlargement in cardiac (disease. Cancer and New Growths.—Primary cancer is so exceedingly rare tthat it may be doubted whether any unquestionable case has yet been reported. Secondary cancer occurs chiefly as the sequel of eeancer of the stomach, or some other abdominal viscus ; but even tthis is very uncommon. Of simple tumours, lymphomata or lymphatic growths, already ? spoken of, are the commonest, and appear sometimes to have their rprrmary seat in the spleen. Fibroma and angioma, or cavernous tumour, have also been described. Isolated masses of splenic tissue, forming distinct tumours, are sometimes observed. Tubercle occurs, for the most part, in the spleen only in acute ^universal tuberculosis; it occurs more frequently in children than :=m adults, in the proportion of 40 to 13. It appears both in the form °f grey granulations, yellow miliary tubercles, or yellowish ' Cheesy masses, of the size of a pea and above. In acute tubercu- losis the spleen is described by Eokitansky as becoming swollen and softened, much as in a typhous state. The tubercles are here Suusually hard, grey, and like those in other organs. But in cases u u