MUSCULAR TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. 762 t “ Med.-Chir. Trans.” vol. xxxiii. p. 199. should he regarded rather in a relation to the womb analogous to that of exostosis to the matrix it springs from, than of a character totally at variance with that of their nidus.* [The foregoing paragraph, with its accompanying note, have been left as they stood in the edition of this work published in 1854. It may be added here, that the views then expressed have been since abundantly confirmed by subsequent observers. Indeed, thin sections of these tumours, stained with carmine, show so distinctly the structure of bands of long spimile ceils of plain mus- cular tissue, with rod-shaped nuclei, crossing and recrossing, as in the uterus itself, that the name myoma is now given to these growths instead of the older term fibroid, which expressed less definitely their muscular nature.—Ed.] The amount of blood supplied to these muscular tumours varies. The majority are but scantily provided with vessels. Some, when injected, only exhibit one or two larger vessels traversing the substance of the mass; others exhibit considerable and uniform capillary injection, the vessels being distributed in the connective tissue. The haemorrhage to which fibroid growths of the uterus may give rise is not owing to a laceration of these vessels, but to the irritation and congestion they induce in the superincumbent mucous membrane, which, from the same cause, may ulcerate and slough. When complicating pregnancy, they induce” htemon-hage, by preventing the normal development of the organ ; hence they 'are very apt to give rise to miscarriages. Fortunately for the indi- viduals, they are often a cause of barrenness. These tumours are usually of very slow growth, sometimes in the course of ten or twelve years reaching the size of a melon, and in rare instances attaining enormous dimensions. Specimens are on record weighing forty-four and even seventy-one pounds, and blocking with their great bulk a considerable portion of the abdomen. They often, however, remain quiescent for many years, and they are prone to undergo the degenerative changes common to all morbid growths. Thus they may be the seat of extensive- fatty degeneration, or of calcareous infiltration, or of mucoid softening into irregular cysts, forming the fibro-cystic tumour of the uterus. An excellent example of one of these tumours which has undergone calcareous degeneration to a very marked degree is preserved in the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital. It was removed by Mr. J. Moncrieff Amottt from the body of an old lady, who, having died at the age of seventy-two, from the effects of a fall, was found to have a tumour, weighing five pounds, and as hard as marble, in the * Since the above was written, a corroboration of the view expressed has been pub- lished in the “ Report of the Pathological Society for 1853,” p/219. Dr. Bristowe. in an elaborate paper on the subject of fibrous tumours of the uterus, concludes, from his examinations of them in the impregnated and unimpregnated conditions, that all so- c.tiled fibrous tumours of the uterus—at least in their earlier stages, before degenera- tion has taken place in them—are essentially muscular tumours ; not simply fibrous tumours with a greater or less quantity of muscular fibre mixed up with them, but developments of true and undoubted muscular tissue.