G30 THROMBOSIS AND INFLAMMATION OF THE PORTAL VEIN. found in cases of intermittent fever, and there depends upon stagnation, of blood in tbo sinuses, and tbe metamorphosis of its colouring matter. The obliteration of the vascular channels leads to congestion of the portal venous system and further conse- quences, which are nearly the same as those oi cirrhosis. L lti- mately the pigment may find its way through the liver into the hepatic venous system, and thus become distributed over the ^simple Atrophy of the Liver.—Wasting of the liver occurs in many diseases, accompanied by general marasmus, unless (as in phthisis) fatty degeneration supervene, and is very noticeable in cases of starvation. It also results from any obstruction of the portal vein. In some cases an idiopathic atrophy appears to occur without any obvious cause. The organ is much reduced m size, somewhat granular on the surface, of firm but not hard consistence, and of a peculiar brownish red colour, with the lobules dearly defined, so that it has some resemblance to the liver of chronic venous congestion. It has, on the other hand often been de- scribed as a form of cirrhosis; and it is probable that extreme wasting from the latter cause may come to resemble very closely simple atrophy. The distinction of course depends on the absence of any new production of fibrous tissue in the stroma, ^ of inter- stitial proliferation, in the cases of simple atrophy. The fibrous tissue and Glisson’s capsule may, however, be apparently increased in consequence of the wasting of the hepatic tissue. Dr V\ilks describes a case in which the organ was reduced to ljlbs.m weight, and the liver-cells were not more than one-half or one- third of their normal dimensions. He characterizes such livers as being smooth on the surface, and homogeneous m substance, but as producing the same obstruction of the portal system as actual cirrhosis. THROMBOSIS AND INFLAMMATION OF THE PORTAL VEIN. Coagulation of blood in the portal trunk or some of its branches, accompanied or not by inflammation of the wall of the vein, may be produced by several causes, and lead to important changes in thThiTcondition in the portal or hepatic vein branches been alluded to as resulting occasionally from abscess of the liver, but it may be produced by other causes. A fish-bone hasi been known to perforate the wall of the stomach, and the head of the pancreas, and wound the superior mesenteric vein, exciting inflammation of the coats of the vessel which extended to the SvSns of the portal vein. The effects of thrombosis and phlebitis are the same in these as in other veins .they may P 3 £2£ ft. Mock»g VP of tie channel mthi1W»» or these may proceed m some portions of the vein p