CESTOID PARASITES. 221 primary cyst seems to derange the nutrition of the included ones, so that they shrink up and degenerate into mere 1 arm me of cheesy consistence; these, together with an oily calcareous residue of the flmd contents, which are gradually absorbed, remain in the ulterior of the primary cyst, which itself wastes and shrinks like its included progeny. In this way another kind of cure of the i disease takes place, as the degenerated mass may remain for an indefinite time in the substance of a part without giving rise to . any symptoms. Such degenerated acephalocysts have, ft would . appear, been mistaken for tubercle. The following organs are ' occasionally the seat of acephalocyststhe liver /car egovriv, the ; peritoneum, and the underlying areolar tissue', the muscles, the bram, the spleen, the kidneys, the lungs, the bones. They not uncommonly occur in several parts at the same time. Other species of tapeworm, very rarely found in man, such as .laam nuna, Tania fiavopunctata, &c., need not be further con- - sidered here. Fig. 63. 7 Buthriocephalus lotus (formerly called Tsenia lata), the broad tapeworm, differs from Tania solium in appearance by the greater proportionate breadth of its segments, mnd by the structure of its “head,” which is without any suckers or hooks, forming a bluntly-pointed, club-shaped mass, J^in. in dia- meter, slightly flattened horizontally, and furnished with two laterally imposed fossae or grooves, called ' poBpla (=pits, hence the generic name). The anterior portion of the body is imperfectly segmented, and [enlarges in a very gradual manner. -the first sexually mature segment or proglottis is about the 000th horn the head; the total number ot joints is estimated as nearly 4,000. Each mature proglottis, which may be nearly one inch in breadth, con- “ams both male and female sexual apparatus; the generative orifices euig situated in the central line on ne ventral aspect, towards the upper ipart of' the segment. The eggs are a, ,F.V(J by s^jin., having three mell coverings and a lid-like oper- j-3«f Si Bothrioccphalus latus; head and joints, a, Generative orifices. (From Owen’s Lectures.)