61 HEMORRHAGE. This term implies the effusion of blood in mass, not merely of some of its constituents; exudations, therefore, which are only coloured by haematine, do not constitute haemorrhage. The best character of an haemorrhagic effusion is the presence of large masses of blood-globules imbedded in fibrinous coagula. Such may proceed either from an opening in a vessel of some magnitude, or from numerous capillaries. In every case where blood is effused in large quantity, the walls of the vessels must have given way; and perhaps this is the case in every instance where a blood- globule escapes from its channel, though it is not, to our minds, absolutely certain that there is no such thing as the haemorrhage by exhalation of the older writers. This suspicion, expressed some seventeen years ago, has been converted into a certainty by the researches of late years. It is not now doubted that both red and white corpuscles can leave the blood-vessels without any rupture of their wall. Opinions are, however, still divided as to the precise manner in which this occurs ; some think (with Strieker) that the vascular wall takes the blood-corpuscle into its substance, and discharges it on the other side; while Cohnheim believes in pre- existing openings in the walls, which are enlarged when the vessel is dilated, and allow the corpuscles to pass. This will be more specially considered under the head of intiammation; but there are reasons for thinking that the same thing happens without inflammation, if not under normal conditions. Haemorrhage may take place either in solid parenchymatous organs, or in those that enclose cavities and form canals. In the first case, the substance of the organ undergoes more.injury than in the latter. An effusion of blood into the brain is a most serious thing; on the surface of the Schneiderian membrane it is a mere trifle. When a large quantity of blood is suddenly extravasated in a solid organ, it ploughs up and disorganizes the tissue, and forms therein a cavity for itself, where it lies like a mass of black currant jelly; the walls of the cavity are usually ragged, and soon become stained to some depth by altered colouring matter. But the extravasation may occur in a very different manner, affecting a great number of points at once, and having the appearance of a multitude of red dots scattered about, or of minute streaks. This is termed capillary apoplexy, to distinguish it from the other form (“apoplect. heerd” of Rokitansky). It is often seen in the grey matter of the cerebral hemispheres after death from concussion of the brain. • If the haemorrhage, though taking place in the same way, be more abundant, the spots and streaks approach closer together, the tissue becomes more swollen, and, at last, may become thoroughly red, the blood having penetrated completely between and among the elements of the parts. This is haemor- rhagic infiltration, and when occurring in a limited region, all parts