749 NEW GROWTHS OF THE VAGINA. A chronic thickening of the vaginal mucous membrane is occa- • sionally met with. The catarrhal and the syphilitic ulcer also affect this part. Gangrene sometimes results from the effect of parturi- i tion, or the contusion caused by rough manipulation. The cicatrix i that results from the healing of a slough is occasionally an im- pediment at subsequent deliveries; a puckering of the vaginal i membrane, and consequent diminution of the passage, having taken place. Tumours and, New Growths.—The vagina is not often the seat of • morbid growths. Polypi and encysted tumours are the varieties ; that most frequently affect this situation. The posterior part of ■ the vagina is stated to be the ordinary seat of polypoid growths. An instance given by Mr. Curliug, in the “ Eeports of the Patho- logical Society,”* forms an exception to the rule. Here the solid tumour, which was removed from a woman, aged forty-five, grew 1 from the upper part of the vagina, to which it was attached by a broad peduncle, which commenced just behind the meatus of the urethra, and extended backwards towards the uterus about two i inches and a half. The structure of tbe polypi varies in character; i they may be fibrous or mucous—the fibrous being the least fre- i quent. They vary equally m size, from a trifling projection to i growths several pounds in weight. The encysted tumours of the vagina originate in an obstruction ■ of the follicles with which the upper and lower portions of the : region abounds; they con tarn a glairy, transparent greenish or dirty-brown, albuminous fluid; and, though the source of irrita- tion and inconvenience, are not productive of any danger, their ; correct diagnosis affording a speedy means of relief; but they have been repeatedly mistaken for totally different affections, such as ] prolapsus of the womb or the bladder, or for hernia. Specimens of cancer affecting the vagina are preserved in most : museums of pathological anatomy; they show that this part is commonly secondarily involved by an extension of the disease from the cervix uteri; “however, it may exist,” to employ the words of Kokitansky, “ though the latter is in a very undeveloped : state, and even without it, in the shape of primary carcinoma of the vagina.” The form of cancer present is doubtful, the rnicro- i scopic appearances having been seldom recorded. We have our- 1 selves seen one case of apparently obvious epithelioma of the floor of the vagina near the orifice, but there is a general belief that this form of disease is never met with in this position. Primary cancer of the vagina is undoubtedly extremely rare. It may be propagated from the rectum when the wall is destroyed by ulceration. * Vol. i. p. 301, 1847-18.