16 USES OF FIBRINE. So that it must be regarded as belonging to the general group of albuminous substances. Fibrine is hardly known in solution ; and should probably not be regarded as ready formed in the blood, but rather as formed at the moment of coagulation, by the combi- nation of two substances called respectively the fibrino-plastic substance or paraglobulin, and the fibrinogenous substance or fibrinogen (Schmidt). The former is like, though not quite identical with, globuline, or the albuminous substance contained in large quantity in the red blood corpuscles. The latter is also an albu- minous substance, and is contained in all serous fluids, such as those of the pericardium and pleura, hydrocele fluid, &c., and also in blood serum. These substances artificially prepared and artifi- cially mixed produce a coagulum absolutely identical with natural fibrine. Spontaneous coagulation accordingly must depend on the combination of these two substances, though it is not clear why they do not always combine. For a discussion of these questions we must refer to books on physiology. USES -OF FIBRINE. One very important end which the fibrine serves is the formation of coagula at the orifice of wounded vessels, preventing the occur- rence of further hsemorrhage ^ and another is to form a temporary uniting medium of the sides of wounds. But a still higher dignity has been assigned to the fibrine ; it has been regarded very gene- rally as the plastic material, par excellence, from which all the tissues are formed, and the small amount of it present in blood was sup- posed to show that it was constantly being drawn off for the nutri- tion of the tissues as fast as it was formed. Of late years, however, much evidence has been adduced, which at least goes some way to establish an opposite view, and throws considerable doubt ou the correctness of the old opinion. It should never be forgotten that by fibrine is commonly meant, not a chemical substance, but a mass imbedding the red and white cells, the latter of which certainly have some capacity for growth and organization. TV e will review the arguments on both sides. In support of the specially plastic and orgauizable character of fibrine, it is argued that it seems to bo by its means that the reparation of wounds S’ effected. A thin layer of coagulating, fibrillating material is the medium which unites and holds together the divided surfaces, and forms the first organic connection. So also when a fluid containing much fibrine is effused on the surface of sorous membranes, it very commonly forms bands of adhesion passing between the opposed layers. These now-formed structures resemble very much normal, white, fibrous tissue. There is evidence to show that layers, and even masses of fibrine, contain- ing leucocytes, are capable of being organized; so far, at least, as to become fibroid tissues, and that vascular networks are developed