167 SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. occur, part of a tumour being strictly sarcomatous, while another part is composed of fibrous, bony, cartilaginous, or some other tissue. In this way mixed forms arise, which have been called fibro- sarcoma, osteo-sarcoma, chondro-sarcoma, &c.; the first part of the name being derived from the special kind of tissue with which the sarcomatous growth is associated. The vessels of sarcoma are often larger than ordinary capillaries, and have thin or imperfectly formed walls, so as to appear like mere channels excavated in the substance of the tumour. Origin of Sarcoma.—Sarcomatous tumours arise in the great majority of cases from some form of connective tissue, as the fasciae and septa of muscles, the periosteum, the subcutaneous tissue (also from the skin), and in the brain and spinal cord from the peculiar connective tissue (ne.uroglia) which forms the basis of these organs. They do also arise in the interior of bones and in glandular organs as the mammae, parotid, and also in lymphatic glands, but in the thoracic and abdominal viscera they are chiefly secondary formations. The general appearance, form, and size of sarcomatous tumours differ so much in the different varieties that hardly any general assertion can be made about these particulars. Structure of Sarcoma.-—The elements composing a sarcomatous tumour are cells, intercellular substance, fibres, and vessels. The cells are either roundish, like lymph cells, spindle-shaped, and stellate (fibro-plastic cells), or sometimes irregular in shape and very large (myeloid cells). In general they resemble connective tissue cells and not epithelial cells. They contain usually one or two round or oval nuclei, with brilliant nucleoli; but the nuclei in the large myeloid cells may be very numerous indeed. The cells are often extremely fragile, so as easily to set free nuclei which may then appear to be the principal constituent of the growth. Hence the name of fibro-nucleated tumour given to some kinds of sarcoma. The intercellular substance is seldom or never absent, and sometimes abundant, though it may be inconspicuous. It is best brought into view by hardening the tumour, and is sometimes a very important character in the distinction of sarcoma from cancer. Fibrous tissue is found in the form of septa, dividing the tumours into lobes or capsules enclosing them, and the inter- cellular substance may also be fibrillated, but there is very rarely a true fibrous stroma forming loculi filled with cells, as is the case in true cancer. The history of sarcomatous tumours is, in the majority of cases, that of innocent growths; but many examples occur of tumours which are in every respect as malignant as true cancer. This question is best considered with reference to the different forms of sarcoma.