CHAPTER XXXI. THE LUNGS. Haying in tlie foregoing pages considered the diseases of thei respiratory passages, we now arrive at the investigation of the) morbid changes which occur in the lungs themselves; in thoi tissues aiding in the purposes of oxygenation, the ultimate vesicular! terminations of the bronchi and the interlobular tissue. . 1 bronchules, long before their termination, are deprived of their cartilaginous rings; these are reduced to mere flakes before theyj cease altogether, and all trace of them disappears in tubes of less than one-sixth to one-tenth of an inch in diameter. The tracheal muscular fibres, on the other hand, are continued even to the terminal bronchules, but instead of merely filling up the gap in the cartilaginous frame-work, they form a uniform layer encircling the canal, but excessively thin. They may be seen in tubes not more than one-eightieth of an inch in diameter. Annin the muscular layer are very thin longitudinal or elastic fibres; the ciliated epithelium descends into all but the terminal bron- chules. The latter are, however, lined by a simple pavement epithelium, which most observers have traced into the air vesicles also. According to others, there is absolutely no epithelial cover- ing in the air cells; and others, again, have been able to see nothing but nuclei. Without expressing any opinion as to tne structure of a perfectly healthy lung, wo must say that the exist- ence of a continuous epithelium lining the air vesicles of the most varied pathological conditions appears to us incomes a • This epithelium rests upon an extremely delicate basement mem- brane, by which alone it is separated from the very nch an closely knit capillary network. The capillary vessels coyei nea the whole area of the alveolar surface, and when seen m pro . obviously project into the cavity; a fact of some ™portoi» Another point in the anatomy of the lung, which m . 1 forgotten, is the relation of the bronchi to the air cells. ultimate respiratory spaces or loculi are conical space., -A ■ from the smallest bronchial tubes, so that theu’ opening &