PNEUMATOSIS. 71 of the natural yellow pigment of the serum; or again, especially in the case of ascites, from dissolved bile pigment. If the latter is the case it will be rendered evident by the reaction with nitric acid. A milk-white turbidity is occasionally observed, which depends on the admixture of fat (oil) or epithelium scales; or, according to Schmidt, of a peculiar albuminous substance. Blood globules may be often seen in great numbers in the fluids of ascites by the aid of the microscope; lymph corpuscles or leucocytes are always present; cholesterine tablets are common in that of hydro- cele, and may be sufficiently numerous to constitute a crystalline deposit. The reaction of the fluid is alkaline ; in rare instances an acid has been observed. Lactic, hippuric, and uric acids have been found. Urea is always present, usually in minute quantity, but as much as 6 per cent, has been determined. Sugar is found in cases of diabetes. The salts are principally chloride of sodium and the other salts of the blood serum, nearly in the same pro- portions as in that fluid. The gases of the blood (oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid) have also been found in minute quantities. The proportion of water varies a good deal, though almost always ' greater than in the blood serum, while the amount of albumen shows converse variations. We subjoin from Yogel the results of seven analyses, which show some remarkable variations in the amount of the several constituents. 1 Water 905’0 ■ Albumen 78 0 Extractive matter .. 4-2 Fat 38 Salts 9 0 Blood Serum. 2 920-0 71-5 8.5 3 927 48 10 9 6 Hydrocele Hydrocele 4 946 33 13 8 Ascites 5 956 29 9 7 8 Ascites 6 988-0 0-9 j- 10 0 Ascites 7 704 290 2 4 Ascites The seventh analysis shows actually a larger amount of albu- men than is present in the serum of the blood; this might be supposed to be an error, if other similar instances had not been observed; it probably depends upon a quantity of the water of the original effusion having been removed by absorption, so that the fluid became more concentrated. The most recent determinations, given by O. Weber,* do not differ from these in any important respect. PNEUMATOSIS. The occurrence of air or gas in various parts of the body was at one time thought to be a much commoner event than it is now admitted to be, and its production was spoken of as a well-recog- nized morbid process, under the name of Pneumatosis. Lately much doubt has been thrown on the very existence of such a process; and the abnormal collections of air are traced to one of the Pitha and Billroth, “ Handbuch der Chirurgie,” vol. i.