172 CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOURS. matrix of tlie nervous centres, and to which Virchow has given the name of neuroglia. A hyperplastic growth of this substance, sufficiently distinct to form a ■F1®- 35• tumour, constitutes a glioma. This form of tumour is un- doubtedly very nearly allied to sarcoma, and indeed it is doubtful whether any clear line can be drawn between them. Gliomata generally occur as solitary tumours, more rarely multiple; they vary much in size, and may be as large as a fist. They are sometimes extremely vas- cular, but sometimes again almost non-vascular, pale, and of a hardness approaching that of cartilage. They con- sist chiefly of round or some- what polygonal cells, sepa- rated by a very distinct, but homogeneous matrix. They are very liable to fatty or case- ous degeneration, so that they may sometimes approach the consistency of yellow tubercle. On the other hand, the degeneration sometimes results in the produc- tion of a cystic cavity. These tumours occur in the immense majority of cases in the brain, but similar structures have,been seen on the nerves of special sense, and in connection with the retina. They rarely spread by infection to neighbouring struc- tures, and there are very few instances on record of the occurrence of secondary tumours in distant parts. They may therefore be spoken of as generally, though not universally, innocent. Section of a glioma from the brain, showing the cells or corpuscles imbedded in a clear matrix, v, a vessel, a, portion of the tumour where degeneration and caseation have begun. (From an original preparation.) CANCERS OR CARCINOMATOUS TUMOURS. There are three varieties of cancer which agree to a certain extent in their structure, and about which, therefore, certain gene- ral propositions may be made. In each of these forms (encephaloid, scirrhus, colloid) there is a fibrous framework or stroma arranged in such a way as to form alveoli, or spaces communicating freely with one another, in which are contained cells, closely set together and not separated individually by any further partitions, or any intercellular substance. This is the only anatomical charac- ter common to all the tumours which we call cancer, and it serves, in the immense majority of cases, to distinguish them from the sarcomatous tumours which most nearly resemble them. The