INTESTINAL CHANGES IN SPECIFIC DISEASES. 601 undergo in this disease (p. 73). The change consists, usually, merely m enlargement, by multiplication of the lymphatic cor- puscles, but distinguished (according to Klebs)‘ from simple enlargements by their softer consistency and greyish colour. The cell-production often appears to extend beyond the boundaries of the original follicle, and, in a few cases, as in one figured by Vir- chow (Krankh. Geschwiilste, II. 569), actual ulceration has been seen. In this case, cellular infiltration extended through the walls of the intestine almost to the serous covering, and produced fiat varied patches on the mucous surface, which were in great part ulcerated, so that they much resembled tubercular ulcers. There were, besides, the usual leuchaemic swelling of the spleen, and lymphatic masses in the liver and kidneys. Similar ulcers have been seen in the duodenum. . it is interesting that very similar products have been observed m the intestine in a case of general lymphatic enlargements and growths, (constituting the disease known as Adenie, Pseudoleu- ktemia, or Hodgkin’s disease,) unaccompanied by increase of white corpuscles. Lymphatic new formations were found in the liver, kidneys heart, and other organs, as well as in the duodenum, where the growth formed a mass more than an inch and a quarter in thickness, chiefly m the mucous coat, but partly proceeding from the cytogenous or adenoid tissue lying under the basement membrane. Smaller masses occurred at intervals, both in the small ana large intestine, and were, in all cases, composed of lymphatic corpuscles, held together by a stroma. Syphilitic Affections of the Intestinal Canal— Syphilis very rarely aflects amy part of the intestines except the rectum, where two ,as<\ aro met Wlth. viz., ulceration and stricture. Syphilitic ulcerations much resemble, according to Virchow dysentenc ulcers but are distinguished partly bv their more uniform and level ulceration, partly by their situation, which is near the anus and not m the upper part of the rectum or sigmoid flexure. He thinks it uncertain whether they begin with condv- lomatous or gummatous growths, or whether they are, as some •mnk, local, that is, primary affections. The fibrous scars of these ulcers give rise to formidable strictures of the rectum. hori ° vl i°f °tb»r palits of tbe intestine have been found in new- m afb6ildreTvil [eCt,id Wlt,h heredltai7 syphilis, and, in a few cases, man • 1 v Klebs descnbes a case of an undoubtedly syphilitic p ln , om V'oye found some considerable ulcers near the tiep- in,..;1,.--e and low®r; Part of ileum, almost surrounding the parts VbnarnF; ^hlle numerous small ulcers existed in other with Vil 1 ous^projection™ 8 ^ *** thQ edg6S AVer° besot * Murchison, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” yol. xx. p. 1S8.