357 DISEASES OF THE VALVES OF THE HEABT. Fig. •water; sometimes resembling stalactitic projections, at others • forming irregular rounded eminences, stretching across the orifices of the heart like rigid bars, maintaining the valves in a state of ['permanent erection or distension, and inducing symptoms both of obstruction and of regurgitation. A single flap or curtain may be rendered rigid while the others retain their natural pliability: the ' valves of one side of the heart may be more or less intimately ■united by the morbid growth; but whatever forms the lesion may I ^assume, it is scarcely possible to occur without a permanent nar- |r rowing of the orifice. They are, as has been said, always connected | either with those chronic changes of the endocardium, which may he called slow inflammation, or efelse are a result of antecedent i acute inflammation. Kreissig and Bouillaud refer the disease uni- formly to inflammatory action; and Dr. Watson is also of opinion that it is somehow certainly con- nected with inflammation of the internal lining of the heart. But we must not overlook the import- ant fact of the natural tendency ^existing in the arterial system [.generally, as well as in other tis- sues of the body, to induration ind ossification with advancing i fife; and though we are far from tooking upon ossification of the ' ralves as a physiological process, »>ve are justified by analogy, as • rail as by the positive fact of the very chronic nature of these de- posits, in looking upon them in Jiany cases as of a non-inflam- .natory character allied to the general species of degenerative msea.se. At all events, they must fall under the same category as atheromatous and calcareous changes in the arteries. 4lth°ugh we have used the term ossification in accordance vth common usage, to designate the change under consideration, t is important not to confound the process with the one in vmch genuine bone is formed; cretification or calcareous deposition ■ v°ukl be a more appropriate term, for there is no resemblance between the morbid product and true bone. It consists essentially •t carbonate and phosphate of lime deposited in irregular amor- inous nodules, and resembling more a chemical precipitation than ® organic formation. The material is more or less friable and is connected by the remains of the fibroid, or atheromatous matter n which it formed. It is soluble in the mineral acids. It is often hfficult, when wo meet with an advanced case, to determine in Aortic valves of a man aged forty- seven, rendered perfectly rigid by cal- careous deposit. The patient was affected with granu- lar kidneys and cirrhosis of the liver.