653 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OP THE SPLEEN. described by Mr. Nunn (Ibid., vol. xiy. p. 252), weighed i3g lbs. ; and was not associated with any marked symp- toms. The opposite change of atrophy may reduce the spleen to the size of a hen’s egg, or a walnut. The form of the spleen is rather various. It may be tongue or platter-shaped, or cylindrical or globular. One of the most important circumstances to note under this head, is the great frequency of notches in its anterior border, which may be felt through the abdominal parietes when the organ is enlarged. The spleen is liable to various displacements, some of which are congenital, others the result of disease. Haller found it lying by the side of the bladder in a child one year old, Desault in the right side of the thorax in a new-born infant. It has been found in the left thoracic cavity when the diaphragm was absent, anu external to the abdomen in large umbilical hernia1, or where the abdominal parietes were fissured. Displacement may ensue from the enlargement or distension of adjacent parts, or from its own increase in size. Sometimes in the latter case it descends to, and slides off, the ilium, “ so as to occupy a diagonal position in the hypogastrium, and extend over the right ilium.” Hypertrophy of the Spleen.—Enlargement, without any notable change except hypersemia, takes place in many continued fevers and acute constitutional diseases, as enteric fever, erysipelas pyaemia, puerperal fever, &c. It then presents the following characters. The enlargement may be to twice or four times the normal size, the capsule appears tense, the gland plump and elastic, but on cutting it open it is soft and sometimes almost liquid, very vascular, and of a dark-red colour. H firm enough to form a distinct section it is either uniformly smooth, or more often coarsely granular. Microscopic examination (according to Forster) shows abundant new formation of smail lymph cells and nuclei, to which, rather than to the vas- cular fulness, the increase of size is due. The newly-formed cells and nuclei are often contained in large compound mother cells winch are found m various hyperplastic conditions in the spleen pulp and in the splenic vein. In other cases we have found, under the microscope, no very noticeable alteration of the structural elements. There may be some increase in the quantity of diffused granulous matters : but the nuclei appear quite natural. The change is one better judged of on a large than on a small scale. We have examined, at differ- ent times, numerous specimens of greatly enlarged spleen, but we have found little that could be regarded as characteristic of the several alterations. This is not surprising; it could not be expected that specific differences m the blood should mark themselves bv 1 corresponding varieties of form in the cell-growths of their exuda- ’ hors, any more than that the syphilitic virus should be detected bv • some special modification of the pus of a chancre. 3 Chronic hypertrophy is seldom unaccompanied by some other change; but cases of apparently simple hypertrophy do occur