THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 417 be in a ratio to the softened condition of the deposit in the organ from which the affected lymphatics take their origin. Thus, in a c case of encephaloid cancer of the stomach in an aged female, that i occurred under our own observation, the plexus of lymphatics | i occupying the lesser curvature of the organ was gorged to the a s size of crows’ quills with the cancerous matter.* In the majority of instances, we meet with no such filling up of those vessels, and I • the secondary affections which are set up in their glands appear to ■ be either the result of some material transmitted to them from the primary seat of the lesion, or of idiopathic disease set up in them by some general cause. Sir Astley Cooperf reports three cases of c obliteration of the thoracic duct, two of which were connected with ■ tubercular, the third with cancerous disease. In the first, the ■ob- - struction was produced by the thickened valves, in three’ distinct 1 parts, adhering to one another, the lowest still allowing of a partial t transmission of fluid, the upper arresting it entirely. Scrofulous matter was found deposited between the lamime of the valves. In the second there was considerable thickening and ulceration of the duct; two fungous growths occupied the channel; and in the third, v Inch occurred in a man who had died in consequence of malignant d disease of the testis and the lumbar glands, the thoracic duct was found much thickened, and filled with a pulpy mass, composed of broken, coagulable lymph. Opposite the curvature of the aorta ! the vessel was lost in a swelling as large as a moderate-sized walnut beyond which it was normal. The paper from which these cases - are derived, contain various experiments upon the thoracic duct in ^ annuals, of physiological interest. One of the main conclusions arrived at by the author in reference to this point is, that the cir- culation in the lymphatic system may be kept up by dilatation of collateral vessels subsequent to the occurrence of obstruction in a trimk, as in the vascular system at large. Dilatation.—A varicose condition of lymphatics is occasionallymet 1 atonic habits, causing them to resemble hvdatid tumours It affects various parts of the system, and especially the thoracic duct is liable to dilatation; occasionally the entire system is found in this condition, and an extreme instance of this, occurring in a young man, aged nineteen, which happened in the practice of M Amussat, is given in the works of Breschet and Carswell. Cruik- enankj alludes to and delineates a similar case. Here the lymphatics r; of the groins had reached a size sufficient to permit of the intro- duction of a straw by which air was blown into them; the iliac ganglia had entirely disappeared, and were replaced by the . lymphatic vessels. A corresponding enlargement of these vessels was traced through the abdomen into the thorax; none of the 1 other viscera presented any marked pathological changes. * Pathological Society,” 1847-48, p. 195. f a Records and Researches,” 1798, p. 87. v Bee (,arswell, “ Patholog. Anat. Pasc.” ix. pi. iv. fie- 4 and ■Rt-phoW « t cj ^ Lymphatique,” 1836, p. 260. b' ’ meschet, L0 SystOmc E E