59-1 TUBERCULAR. DISEASE OF TIIE INTESTINES. are destroyed and converted each into one ulcer. The vails being infiltrated with small cells, which are often collected into roundish granulations, or tubercles, pass through the same series of changes, and ulceration thus extends in an irregular manner beyond the original follicles, till the form of the original structure is quite lost. It may happen that the affected part is so com- nletelv destroyed that no intermediate stages are seen, and then (as in tubercular ulcers of the larynx) it is difficult to distinguish them from simple ulcers. . .. , The surrounding tissue is hypermmic, red, and swollen, and the margin of the ulcer firmly attached, rounded and indurated; its base? usually formed by condensed areolar tissue, may contain or not tuberculous matter. The enlargement of the ulcer m depth and in extent is thus effected by a process of essentially the same kind as is observed in cavities of the lung. The margin and the base become infiltrated with tuberculous products which soften and decay, and so the destructive process continually advances. It thus"* penetrates the muscular coat which becomes studded with granulations, formed, according to Klebs and others, m tne lymphatic vessels, and finally may reach the serous covering, and produce a crop of granulations on the peritoneal surface lius may be the starting point of general tubercular peritonitis, but the peritoneal tubercle is, on the other hand, very often primary. Perforation of the intestinal wall sometimes occurs, the ulcer retaining throughout its original character, in whicn respect it differs from the typhoid. The fatal event is often prevented by timely exudation of fibrine on the serous surface, winch either thickens the wall or else unites it to an opposing surface, air. Ancell contests the statement that the tuberculous ulcer alwayi retains its original character, he does not beheve that uicerafao the result of tuberculosis, are always produced by the deposit ot tubercle. He views them as the result of “ the ulcerous diathens of the disease.” We have noticed above the only ground which eXThe mesenteric glands are enlarged by the special deposit, and often to considerable size. This, however, it may be steted,^ not the essential circumstance in the disease formerly ca^c . m Tuberculous ulcers heal by a cessation of the morbid depo^ taking place, and subsequent effusion of plastic fluid, whic organized into the cicatrix tissue before described. The contraction ofgthis, if the ulcer has been of a large size, or ^nded roimd^ intestine, may cause more or less contraction of its ca • f culous disease generally, but not always, selects the lower' part the ileum as the seat of its chief ravages; it oftener d^cends, we think, to the caecum and colon than extends m 1 dl Intestinal tubercle is nearly always ^^^^^tretiwd lungs, and it has been suggested by Ivlebs tha