40 AN7EMIA, 8PAN/EMA. what to the outward pressure or resistance of the fluid, and thus become dilated; but it does not seem to have been shoWri that this actually takes place. Some degree of anasarcous swelling of the feet and ankles is not uncommon. When this occurs we may take it as a, sign, on Andral’s authority, that the albumen of the serum is diminished. Asthenia may advance to such a degree that it proves fatal, by a gradual failure of the vital powers, like the sinking at the close of diseases of exhaustion. The impove- rishment of the blood may probably be the determining cause of the appearance of tuberculous or other cachectic diseases. The nutrition of some parts in the anaemic may be impaired to such an extent that ulcerations form spontaneously. The cornea would appear especially likely to suffer in this way from not being per- meated with vessels. Such instances of morbid action are very important to notice, as being free from complication, and exhibit- ing, therefore, more clearly the essential nature of a process. Ulceration in this case is clearly not produced by inflammation. It is rather interesting to remark that the most lowly organized, and the least essential of all the tissues, viz., the adipose^ suffers less from impaired nutrition in the anmmic state than any other. It is by no means uncommon to see persons, especially females, presenting a considerable amount of embonpoint, who are mani- festly very deficient in healthy blood. This is the more easily comprehensible, as the fat vesicles really seem to be scarcelv more than so many minute drops of exuded oil, included in homoge- neous films of protein material. Local or Partial Anaemia.—The foregoing history of ansemia and spansemia manifestly relates to it as a general condition. It seems very doubtful how far there can exist such a condition as partial ansemia, if we recognize a deficiency of red corpuscles as an essential feature of this state. Of course the supply of blood to a part may be defective, in consequence of various causes ; but this does not involve any alteration in the quality of the fluid trans- mitted to the part. However, using the term in the sense of merely deficient supply of blood, the consequences of such a state will be generally those of diminished nutrition, or, more properly, atrophy of the part, with more or less considerable impairment of its function. If the deprivation of blood be very great, mortifica- tion may be the result; this has occurred in some cases in which the main artery of a limb had been tied on account of aneurism, and the collateral circulation did not establish itself soon enough. Even in cases which have a more favourable issue, the immediate effect of cutting off the supply of blood is to occasion weakness, numbness, and reduction of (he temperature; the muscles and nerves are, in a great measure, paralyzed, and the heat-producing process fails with that of nutrition. When the aorta of an animal is tied, its lower extremities, after a time, become as paralyzed as if its spinal cord had been divided. The causes of local or partial ansemia may be, (1) tumours of various kinds, situated so as to