MORBID CONDITIONS OB' BURS-E. 825 ligaments, or from destruction of them in consequence of disease and muscular inaction. Dislocation, it is affirmed, may also occur congenitally. What we wish to notice here is, the changes which take place in the articulating surfaces, when a dislocation has taken place, and remained a long time unreduced. Rokitansky describes these as follows : “ The capsule becomes enlarged, and the place of its insertion altered; the articular cavities of the bones increase in size, and undergo various changes in form; and cor- responding alterations are produced in the articular heads or prominences. In other cases, in which the dislocation is complete, the capsule wastes, and the bony cavities diminish in size, or are filled with masses of new osseous substance ; the displaced head of the bone loses its character, and a new joint is formed. The cellular structures which surround the dislocated head inflame, and frame a new capsule around it, which, for the most part, fits closely, is of fibroid structure, and has a serous lining; whilst the pressure of the head, in its new position, occasions a shallow, articular excavation beneath it. In other cases, instead of an excavation beneath the head, a mass of callus springs up around it, and forms either a hollow to receive it, or a level surface, while the head may be flattened in order to fit; or, lastly, the callus may project, and that which was the articular head be excavated to receive it. Sometimes the quantity of new bone deposited around a dislocated head is very abundant, and retains it firmly in its place. In dislocations of long standing, the pressure upon the vessels and nerves interferes with the nutrition of the luxated bone, and, like the soft parts, it is found in a state of atrophy.” Morbid Conditions of Bursa.—These small synovial sacs are liable to be affected much in the same way as larger. They may be attacked by inflammation, more or less acute, or quite chronic, resulting from rheumatism, the abuse of mercury, or some other constitutional affection, or excited by violence, or long-continued pressure. The effusion which takes place may, in cases of a chronic kind, be a simple synovial or serous fluid; but when the inflammation is more acute, it is either a turbid serum, with flakes of fibrinous matter floating in it, or actual pus. Suppura- tion sometimes is produced artificially, for the purpose of causing the obliteration of the cavity of the bursa. The matter sometimes makes its way directly to the surface of the skin, and is dis- charged, but it often, also, escapes into the surrounding cellular tissue, and diffuses itself over a considerable extent. Sir B. Brodie describes this as being of common occurrence after inflammation of the bursa patellcO, so that an abscess is formed between the skin and the fascia, covering the whole of tho anterior part of the knee, and liable to be confounded with inflammation of the synovial membrane of the joint. When severe inflammation supervenes, after the puncture of a large bursa, so much consti- tutional disturbance is sometimes occasioned that tho patient dies.