MORBID CONDITIONS OP THE TEEIH. 34(3 should exist, that the tissue should he dead, and that the oral fluids should be in an acid state, capable of dissolving it. lest paper applied to carious teeth almost invariably shows the presence of free "acid. Healthy saliva is alkaline, while that of dyspeptic nersons is prone to be acid, and it is in such that caries is most apt to occur. The enamel is, of course, first affected, but a very small perforation through this tissue may exiot with a considerable amount of disease in the subjacent dentine. It appears that when the acid solvent has once penetrated to the surface of the dentine, it extends laterally under the enamel, destroying, extensively perhaps, the body of the tooth, and undermining and eroding the enamel on its attached surface. The destructive process does not go on nearly so fast in the fang, which seems to possess a higher degree of vitality than the crown. A most interesting observation of Mr. Tomes demonstrates completely tbe vital nature of the actions going on in the dentine under the influence of disease. He shows that when a portion of dentine has become dead it is circumscribed by the consolidation of the adjacent living tissue. “The tubes become filled up, they are rendered solid, and the circulation is cut off from the dead mass by the obliteration ot the tubes.” It is remarkable, “ that the consolidation does not go on gradually from without inwards, keeping in advance of the decay, but occurs at intervals.” It is formed also in successive fines a second one being produced when the first begins to be attached, and afterwards a third, when the second gives way. The con- solidated zones vary in width and in completeness, probably according to the vigour of the conservative action. Another interesting exhibition of vital action is displayed m the production of secondary dentine by the surface of the pulp, under the excite- ment of caries in the contiguous tissue. This vascular papilla, originally the formative organ of the dentine, which had for years - confined its action to nourishing the perfected structure, under tne ■ stimulus of disease renews its formative action, and throws out SUmULUH OI UlStJcbOt, 1CHCWO J.UO a barrier between itself and the advancing mischief. How ven a earner ueuweeu nauu —o r ,, ' analogous is this to the throwing out of lymph on the outer surface of a hollow viscus which is threatened with ulcer- P8 The'1 structure of secondary dentine is not so perfect as the original, and it is commonly vascular. Under the mcros^e “ a transverse section of carious dentine, rendered soft. tilage, from the loss of its lime, presents a cribriform appearance- The tubuli are much enlarged and irregular in outline, * i c » entirely from their normal shape. This indicates that thesolvei _ enters the tubes, and dissolves, first, their walls, a^d , the intertubular material. In the consolidated zone= obliterating the tubes is first removed, and afterwards their wans obliterating tne tubes is nrst removeu, ; oftell and the intervening tissue. A confervoid grov th 1 > and the intervening tissue, .-v them, seen on carious teeth, and on the tartar that imp ‘ ■ nes Imperfect formation of tho enamel is a frequent cause o