INTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTEEIC FEVEE. 592 tion ; wo have found nothing in their substance besides the normal nuclei hut granular and amorphous matter, and some colloid cor- puscles or cells. The vessels of their capsule are generally much congested, as well as those which penetrate their inteiior. l,oki- tansky states that “ the mesenteric glands decrease in size, as soon as the detachment of the intestinal morbid growth has commenced. Of course they must remain for some time more congested with blood and larger than natural, even under the most favourable circumstances. Resolution and Healing.—It by no means necessarily follows that ulceration takes place after a patch or a single gland has been enlarged; the exudation may liquefy and be again ab- sorbed into the blood, and the part return to its normal condition. Cicatrization of the ulcers is not unfrequent, as Sir Thomas AN atson testifies. He says, “The ulcerated surface seems to clothe itself afresh by degrees, with a new mucous membrane, which is thin, however, and adherent to the subjacent tissues, and does not eude over them when pressed between the finger and the thumb, as the healthy portions of the coats of the bowel will do upon each other. And in the place of the cicatrix there is usually to be seen a mam- fest puckering, and a number of little wrinkles or lines, radiating from a common centre.” Rokitansky speaks of the new-formed membrane as a serous lamina, which becomes at its circumference as it were dovetailed in between the muscular and mucous coats. He confirms the observation of Sebastian, that small villi sometimes lorm upon this lamina, even before its union with the mucous membrane. In most instances, however, the absence of villi forms one oi the distinctive features of a cicatrix. We feel much hesitation in accepting Rokitansky’s absolute assertion, that the cicatrix of a typhus ulcer never in any way gives rise to a diminution of the calibre of the intestine. Dr. Carswell speaks positively of the occurrence of fatal ileus in persons who had suffered some months before from typhoid fever, the cicatrix of an ulcer bemgfound after death, which had destroyed the muscular coat around the whole circumference of the tube. . Secondary Ulceration.—Instead of cicatrization, or even when partial healing has taken place, the ulceration sometimes extends in a remarkable and irregular manner from its ongmal scat by a simpler process of destruction than that by which the typhoid utaers were originally formed ; and this secondary ulceration has even been compared to gangrene. The ulcers thus produced which might bewailed “post-typhoid” ulcers,are quite irregular in shape, and have not the typical characters of „iVen above. Dicers of the colon met with in typhoid fever •nniptir to bo ofton ol tbis kind. i ^Consequences of Typhoid Ulcers.-Perforation and hemorrhage the two most formidable results of typhoid ulcers The former may take place at any period of the disease, but rarely