431 DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. - geneous network, of highly refracting substance; the roundish meshes of which contain serum and pus corpuscles (leucocytes) • sometimes epithelial cells, free nuclei or red corpuscles. The network itself has a great power of resistance to heat and chemical r.reagents. It is at first covered by the topmost layer of epithelium (here ciliated), but later on this disappears. The membrane accord- ing1! replaces the epithelium, and is formed by a peculiar meta- morphosis of its cells, which become partly absorbed, partly converted into pseudo-fibrinous substance. The change has beeu called by Wagner croupous metamorphosis, and is thus described by him. In the first place, a general enlargement of the cell -especially of its protojilasma, takes place. Next appear several round or oval spaces, which ultimately become vacuoles, the cell- substance completely disappearing, while the remaining sub- stance becomes darker, more refracting, and looks lagged in mitlino W.VinlKr _ -a. <■ , , ‘ Jae»uu AU outline. Finally the cell is quite perforated by these ‘ spaces, which may also destroy part of its outline, and the nucleus dis- appears; but its residue is composed of substance extremely re- isistent to reagents, and becomes firmly united to the neighbouring •oelis, so that an open but very firm network is produced. The leucocytes found m the meshes of this structure are probably like dhe occasional red corpuscles, derived from the vessels J ’ The above description gives us the anatomical definition of croup but includes some forms of disease usually called diphtheria such -is ordinary epidemic “ diphtheria ” of the pharynx. Clinically dis- .met as these forms are, an anatomical distinction corresponding n the two types of disease has not yet been found ; that is to say loth croup and diphtheria may affect the pharynx as well as the ur passages. ° HI.—DIPHTHERITIC INFLAMMATION. This kind of inflammation is, like the last, accompanied by the ■•reduction, on the surface, of apparently adventitious material in h. form of layers or false membranes. They greatly resemble -ipous lake mernbmnes, and though several criteria have been •uggested for distinguishing one from the other, it cannot be said aat anj of these are perfectly satisfactory. The type of dinhthe it.c mflammatmn or diphtheria is commonly taken from a disease t the pharynx and tonsils, which occasionally extends to or affects he aar passages, whiie croup (as generally understood) is a disease f„“e lai7nx an(1 traciea- But, on the other hand, there are affec ^transferred accidentally to other parts of the body or to open “Ms ib onmj] locality is therefore not all-important ff! 4 state that the term diphtheria is used on the Continent m ,