INVAGINATION OF TOE INTESTINE. 580 Wlien the bowel is wounded by the thrust of a cutting instrument, the danger of escape of the intestinal contents, and of consequent peritonitis, is not so extreme as might be supposed. The mucous membrane being somewhat loosely attached and thrown into natural folds, protrudes at the orifice so as to close it, if it be not very large ; at the same time the constant pressure of the panetes tends to keep the wounded point applied against the opposing surface, to which, moreover, it becomes glued before long by adhesive exudation. If an opening is made into the intestine jy ulcerative perforation of its wall, the effusion of lymph uniting it to adjacent parts becomes occasionally the medium through which a fistulous communication is established, either with tne exterior of the body, or with another hollow viscus in the vicinity. Sometimes the ulceration instead of penetrating further, causes simplv the formation of abscess in the subperitoneal cellular tissue, faecal abscess, as it is termed. When the intestine is divided completely across, the two ends will occasionally unite, the serous surfaces be brought together and maintained m apposi- tion by stitches, but no one has yet succeeded in repeating Kam- dohr’s experiment (said to have been successful), m which a large portion of an intestine having mortified, was cut on, and the upper end inserted within the lower and kept m that position by a suture. It is very unlikely, that a mucous and a serous mem- brane would unite by adhesions, which is said to have occurred m that case ; the serous covering alone, and not the mucous surfa being disposed to adhesive inflammation. The mtestme may be ruptured or even completely torn across by a blow on the abdomen without any laceration of the wails of the body , sometimes even without any external bruise. The sudden escape of the intestinal contents produces acute and violent invagination of the intestine implies the inversion of a portion and its intrusion into another, an upper portion being generaffy intended into a lower, and the converse rarely (Dr Brmton thought never) occurring. The following account we abbiemato from the very full details given by Rokitansky. Invapab - not uncommonly form during the last moments of Me^pe daily in diseases which give rise to irregular and dmturlMj innervation. Thus they are often met with m the dead bodm of children who have died from hydrocephalus. They are characterized by the absence of all appearancesofre-actimi, such as we shall presently mention, and by tee parts being easily restored to their proper situation. Several ^ the same case. When they occur during life as a « tion, or consecutive only to diarrhoea, they spee • . ^-sus- patient into a condition of extreme danger. D COm- cention must present at least three layers, as will be readffy oom SS on viewing the accompanying diagram; the outer called the sheath, is formed by a portion of mtestme in its natma