109 ULCEKATION. ■■ 11 greater or less amount of exudative and organizing processes. L'hese are so far from being essential to it, that they constitute, in .iact, the means by which its ravages are repaired; the formation 'iif granulations, and the effusions'of pus, are the characters, not of am extending, but of a healing ulcer. Instances of pure and simple iiilceration are to be seen in the cornea, and in some ulcers of the rvalls of the stomach; they penetrate the tissue more or less Itleeply, so as sometimes to perforate it, without any surrounding ; thickening from the deposition of the lymph. In ulcers of the : ititomach, doubtless the corrosive action of the gastric fluid plays a ■ joart. When the erosion of the tissue goes on rapidly and exten- r r.vively, forming a sore, with very irregular surfaces and margins, mnd presenting no trace of reparative action, the ulceration is said . :,o be phagedenic. Many other varieties of ulcers are mentioned, ?out they all have reference to the amount and character of the , exudative and reparative processes taking place ; and though they afford excellent indications of the condition of the general system, which are well worth studying, they are not to be regarded as ! containing anything special in the nature of the ulceration itself. ! .Rokitansky considers that the main circumstance determining ulceration, is the corrosive quality of the exudation, the ichor! We agree with Sir J. Paget, in doubting the correctness of this, as n general statement; it is much more probable that, in consequence “bf altered and defective nutrition, the tissue gradually deliquesces 'sso to speak) into a fluid, the cellular elements undergoing rapid uatty degeneration and decay. Commonly also the new products t formed are themselves involved in the destructive process. Thus ion tubercular and typhoid ulcerations of the intestines the process commences with the formation of a mass of new growth under the : mucous surface. This causes absorption and destruction of the napithelium covering it, and thus an ulcer is formed, which is extended by the ejection of the newly formed mass. It is a matter of some dispute whether the tissue, as it decays rand is destroyed, is removed by absorption, or is cast off from the broken surface. Sir J. Paget inclines to the opinion that it is ejected, resting upon the analogy of excreting surfaces, on the dis- covery of fragments of bone and phosphate of lime in ulcers of ■osseous structures, and on direct observation of the commencement :of ulcers. We are also inclined to think that the process of removal is rather by ejection than by absorption, especially in the case of open ulcers, yet so that some amount of absorption also takes place, varying in degree in different cases, and probably even predominating in those where there is no external outlet Ihe formation of ulcerations on the surface of the cervix uteri has appeared to us to take place in the following wav much •as it is described by Dr. Baly on the intestinal surfaceAs the first step in the situation of a spot of hypereemia, a minute vesicle 18 formed, the epithelial layer being lifted up by effused fluid whilo the tissue boneath is softened, loosened up, and appears