POEMS OF PNEUMONIA. 482 the patient has survived the first shock, and therefore calls for the special attention of the operating surgeon. In this form the congestion is by far the most prominent | symptom; and though enough of vitality remains to give rise to I some active symptoms, yet the debility of the patient, and of the j organs of respiration, is so great as to prevent a reaction of a vigorous character. Mr. Erichsen* has analyzed sixty-two post- mortems of individuals who died after operations, and has set I down as pneumonic only those cases in which either one lung I alone was affected, or else in which some other palpable sign of I inflammatory action was manifested in the cavity of the thorax, I beyond a merely congested or softened condition of these organs, i such as solidification of their tissue, whether hepatization or spieni- I fication of it, the effusion of recent lymph or serum into the pleural I sacs, or marked evidences of inflammation of' the bronchial mucous I membrane. The result of his analysis is as follows . there were I twenty-eight in which there were evident signs of pneumonia, 1 eleven in which the lungs presented the characters common to the I first stage of pneumonia and passive congestion; nine where the j lungs were diseased, but neither inflamed nor congested, and. fourteen in which these organs were healthy, though manymav' have presented cadaveric congestion. A fact connected with this form of pneumonia, and pointed out by Mr. Erichsen, is, that while in ordinary sthenic pneumonia the right lung is most fre- quently affected, the left next, and lastly, both organs conjointly,. here the two lungs are most frequently affected together. In the twenty-eight cases in which pneumonia was traced, the light .ang alone was affected three times, the left lung alone also three times; . and both lungs together, though not to the same degree, m twenty- two cases. . . ,,-,11 Typhoid Pneumonia.—In the pneumonia accompanying typhoid 1 fever, congestion is equally a predominant symptom, and requires- the more to be carefully watched duiing life, as the insensibility of the patient and the general torpor of the nervous system allow it to run its course without producing (in many cases) any symptoms- of inflammatory action beyond those obtained by the stethoscope. Cough, expectoration, and dyspnoea may be absent, while we find ex- tensive crepitation over a large extent of surface. In addition o i post-mortem appearances already detailed, we find the nffecitu pa . very soft, and the product is of a chiefly cellular character, vytliout muchfibrin, while there is no definite limitation to the disease.^ some cases of atypic pneumonia, where we have reason ,o susp®c an arrested secretion of bile in the liver, we find a genuine j. dice of other viscera, and then the frothy juice exuding ron cut surface of the pneumonic lung may present a yellow tinge.* which has probably given rise to the term of bdious pneumonia^ Senile Pneumonia.— Again, in senile pneumonia,! the followim • “ Mcdico-Giirurg?. Transact.,” vol. *xyi. P- 29. + Hasse’s “ Pathological Anatomy, p. 22‘J.