75 LET7COOYTH2EHIA OR LEECH JEMIA. blood-corpuscles are formed. In several cases of leucocythcemia changes have been found in this tissue showing an increased pro- duction of white corpuscles; and though in most of these there were also characteristic changes in the spleen and lymphatic glands, one remarkable case has been recorded in which, together with some swelling of the spleen, there was immense enlargement and hyperplasia of the medulla of several bones, so that the latter change could not but be regarded as the predominant one.* The last mode of origin of leucocythsemia is from the follicular (lymphatic) structures of the intestines. Although these parts are often the seat of secondary morbid changes, only one case has been observed in which they appeared to be the starting-point of the disease. This observation is due to M. Behier.f In a man, aged twenty-four, of extremely anaemic appearance, there was found decided leucocythaemia, the white corpuscles being almost as numerous as the red. These corpuscles were of moderate size, as in the lymphatic form of the disease, and smaller than those found in the splenic form. After death no enlargement of the spleen or lymphatic glands, nor any notable change in any organ, except the Peyer’s patches and solitary glands of the small intes- tine, which were much swollen and enlarged by an over-growth of lymphoid tissue, though not ulcerated. No other part being diseased, it was concluded that the excess of white corpuscles was derived from the intestinal follicles; but it is true that the bones were not examined. Histology of Primary Morbid Changes.—The enlargement of the spleen is found to be due to hypertrophy of the proper spleen pulp, the Malpighian follicles being comparatively unaffected, or even small. In early stages the cells of the pulp are chiefly increased ; but later on there is also induration from hypertrophy of the fibrous elements. At the same time exudation takes place, and masses are formed resembling blocks, or infarctions, which may undergo degeneration. In the lymphatic glands the enlargement of the cortical portion, and especially the multiplication of its cellular elements, predominates. Secondary Morbid Changes.—The secondary changes consist chiefly in the formation of tumours, or growths, of a lymphatic character (lymphomata), consisting chiefly of lymph-cells, with a more or less clearly developed stroma or reticulum. Beside actual tumours, diffuse infiltrations of the same kind are met with, and every transitional form between the two may be found. From a study of the latter, it is clear that the morbid change begins in all organs in the interstitial connective tissue, or stroma, not in the special secretive or glandular elements. Thus, in the kidney white corpuscles are found between the tubes, and around the Malpighian bodies. The origin of these infiltrations is not • Waldeyer. Virchow’s “Archir,” vol. lii. 8. + “A Contribution to the History of Leuceomia.” Paris, 1868.