PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF THE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. 9 Hcematoidin is produced by the decomposition of hsematin, and hence (supposing that it could not have come from the bile) its presence in the body always indicates the previous effusion and decomposition of blood. White Corpuscles of the Blood.—These are larger than the red; they are, when seen out of the body, and dead, spherical masses, with a somewhat granulated surface. In their interior may be seeu granules, or sometimes indistinct nuclear bodies. On the addition of acetic acid sometimes a single nucleus is shown, sometimes two, three, or four; sometimes an oval or double nucleus, which appears to be in process of division. It is important to remember that these differences are normal, and not in themselves indicative of disease. When observed at the temperature of the body these cells show lively movements, throwing out and withdrawing portions of their substance, and undergoing various alterations of shape. In the characters which have been mentioned, as in others, they agree with lymph corpuscles, and with the corresponding elements of mucus and pus. — The chemical constitution of the white corpuscles is not of any importance for our present pur-pose. We will only call to mind the contrast which is observed between the mineral constituents of the corpuscles generally and those of the liquor sanguinis. Accord- ing to Schmidt the relative quantities of metals and acids are as follows:— Iv. Na. P05. 01. Corpuscles .. 4089 .. 9*71 .. 17-64 .. 21-00 Liquor sanguinis 5’19 .. 37‘74 .. 6'08 .. 40-68 It will be seen from this that the greater part of the potassium and the phosphoric acid are contained in the corpuscles ; most of the sodium and chlorine in the liquor sanguinis. This difference is sometimes not without pathological importance. PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF THE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. Variations in Number.—With respect to the red globules, it is certainly proved, that their amount is, cceteris paribus, proportionate to the vigour, health, and strength of the individual. In the examinations made by MM. Andral, Gavarret, and Delafond of the blood of various animals, it was constantly observed that those which possessed most strength and vigour, and were generally the finest specimens of the race, gave the highest figures in a series showing the relative amounts of globules; while those that were debilitated and poor showed a corresponding deficiency in this particular. Also, when the breed of a species was improved by crossing it with another, there was a corresponding increase in tlio quantity of red particles. In the human subject the comparison of the general vigour and activity of the sanguine temperament, both as regards body and mind, with tho sluggishness and