INFLAMMATION. 81 i constitute, together with transparent plasma, the entire contents of a portion of vessel of some length, not remaining absolutely • stagnant, but oscillating to and fro, or moving sometimes slowly i onwards, From a vessel thus filled we have observed them escap- i ing into a communicating vein, three or four at a time, and carried ; away into the general circulation. From repeated observations, ’ we are quite satisfied that stasis is not produced in a mechanical isort of way by the corpuscles becoming sticky and adhering to 1 the vascular walls and to each other. When weak liq. ammon. i is applied to the web, and the actual occurrence of stasis watched, i it appears as if the blood stream were suddenly arrested by some iinvisible power; the corpuscles, just before passing on so briskly, Lave retarded in their progress, more and more slowly, oscillate a 1 little, then stop, accumulate, and become congested together into ; a mass. The adhesion of the corpuscles to the capillary walls is i most marked after a short time; but it certainly is not the prime i cause of stasis. On what the adhesion depends it is difficult to isay; it has seemed to us more like the result of an attractive force Itkan of mere stickiness. The diameter of the distended capillaries, ’ which are the seat of stasis, has appeared to us, for the most part, ftolerably uniform; but in one instance we observed numerous (constrictions at various points. These were remarkably abrupt, and extended across one-third, or one-half, the channel. Mr. ’Wharton Jones mentions a local dilatation of arteries, but we find : no account of these local contractions of the capillaries. The red -globules, for the most part, appear to be packed together without any regular arrangement, but occasionally they may be seen lying together in rouleaux, like the corpuscles of human blood, ' with their long diameter transverse to the axis of the vessel. The ' white corpuscles are not unfrequently seen of a pyriform shape, dragging slowly along, or actually sticking to the sides of the > vessels; that they do possess some degree of adhesiveness is mani- fest, but it does not seem to be so considerable or general as Dr. ' Williams supposes. When the inflammation is subsiding, find the stagnant blood beginning again to resume its course, all that can be observed is, that the agglomerated mass of red corpuscles in a vessel loosens and breaks up, so that the individual corpuscles are again visible, while the impulse of the heart makes itself more and more felt, and at last sweeps away the accumulation altogether, having first detached small portions successively. Fibrinous coagula also form occasionally, as Mr. Wharton Jones describes, and are similarly disintegrated, and carried away by the returning current during resolution of the inflammation. While stagnation continues, a small quantity of haemoglobin dissolved in the serum exudes, and imparts to the tissues bordering the vessels some | degree of yellow staining. Later Observations.—We intend the foregoing account to serve < as a description of what may be actually observed of the process of inflammation, as it occurs in the frcg’s web. Most of the G