CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 93 .alike are affected alike, and tlie materies morbi passes by others. .How unable is tbe neuro-pathoiogical theory to explain such '.instances of inflammation ! Indirect Causes.—The second class of causes are those which act iindirectly on the part which suffers. The most common of these is ccold, which appears to act by repelling the blood from the surface, land causing it to accumulate in some internal part. This will be ddifferent, according to the previous predisposition ; thus one person, aas the result of a severe chill, will have bronchitis, another diar- rrhoea, a third peritonitis, a fourth renal congestion, and so on. Mala- rria, the repelling of eruptions, the arrest of habitual discharges, the ssudden healing of ulcers, are also recognized as causes of internal iinflammations, which they probably produce in the same way as ccold, but the active congestion of the incipient process is more apt tto issue in haemorrhage. It is matter of much uncertainty as to hhow many inflammations originate; they come on, as it seems, ^spontaneously, without the individual being aware of any exciting cause. Both as respects these, and those which are produced by ccold, &c., it seems to us necessary to recognize some special con- Jdition of the tissue, which in the one case converts the congestion into an inflammation, and in the other is the sole and efficient cause. In ague, for instance, during the cold stage of each cparoxysm, considerable congestion of the internal viscera takes iplace, but inflammation of these is comparatively rare. In "healthy states of the system, the surface may remain severely cchilled for several hours, during which the blood must accumulate i in the internal organs, but this does not occasion inflammation. IThese instances show that mere repellent influences producing congestion are not adequate to produce inflammation solely by ■ themselves. Even in the case of a common catarrh, there is a much reason to believe that the inflammation of the mucous sur- face depends much more on some infecting miasm, as that of 'influenza, or some unhealthy condition of the blood, than on exposure to cold or wet; and, in fact, many a cold occurs without any such exposure. In such cases the predisposing cause becomes the most important, or may even be the exciting also. Influence of the Nerves.—We have not yet noticed the nervous influence in its relation to the causes of inflammation. This is considered the prime mover in the process by those - who .adopt the neuro-pathoiogical theory; in our view it holds a • very secondary place. That disturbance of the nervous force may prove a cause of inflammation cannot be doubted; Lalle- mand (quoted by Dr. Williams) “relates a case in which a .ligature, involving the right brachial plexus, was followed by inflammation and suppuration of the opposite hemisphere of the brain.” Sir J. Paget mentions a case in which a portion of a calculus imparted in the urethra excited inflammation, with < deposits of lymph and pus in the testicle. Instances of a similar ! kind, or of active hyperaemia similarly occasioned, are not very