496 PERI-BRONCIIIAL GRANULATIONS. said before) wo can generally find some trace of previous disease, chiefly of the type of degenerative inflammation, resulting in the formation of caseous matter. But sometimes a simple inflamma- tion seems to he the precursor of tuberculosis, and sometime^ no antecedent disease is dis- coverable. In the lung, however, miliary tuber- cle, though generally distributed, may occur as the sequel of disease in the same organ; a cavity or mass of degene- rated matter being found at one apex (for instance), while one or both lungs are studded with miliary tubercles. The inter- vening tissue is often quite unaltered, some- times extremely hyper- eemic, though crepitant and otherwise natural* and, less frequently, actually pneumonic. This mode of occurrence of miliary tubercle may therefore be an accompaniment of phthisis, but is not neces- sarily so. . On the other hand, the local occurrence of miliary tubercle m the lung is always in combination with some form of phthisis. M e may find scattered tubercles surrounding a large cavity, or im- bedded in masses of grey fibroid tissue, or mingled in various proportions with destructive or indurative change, as will be shown in speaking of the different forms of phthisis. Fig. 111. Miliary tubercle, scattered throughout the pul- monary tissue, forming translucent, greyish, and circular points of the size of pins’ heads. PERI-BRONCHIAL GRANULATIONS. These bodies have very often been mistaken for tubercles in a certain stage of retrogressive change. They are bard dark grey nodules, with a yellowish centre, the latter having often been regarded as a degenerated portion of the tubercle. Close examina- tion, however, shows that this yellow centre is really a perfora- tion, and represents the cross section of a small bronchial tube, the thickened walls of which cut across, with some surrounding con- solidated tissue, constitute the nodule. The hollow of the tube contains either ordinary inflammatory products, mucus, pus. Ac., or more generally the same products which have already under- gone degenerative decay, or caseation. These products may com- pletely fill up the tube. ” More information is in some cases obtained respecting the structure of these objects by cutting open the bron-