THE TRACHEA. 443 oesophagus, phlegmonous erysipelas and diffuse abscesses in the vicinity, may each induce compression of the windpipe to such an extent as to cause death, or interfere with its functions by pressing on the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The practical question which arises in these cases regards the propriety of performing laryngo- toiny or tracheotomy; it is also one that requires great judgment in connection with disease of the mucous membrane, and the pre- sence of foreign bodies within the tube. Diverticula are described as occasionally forming in the trachea, by a dilatation of a portion of the posterior wall and consequent protrusion into the oesophagus between the ends of the tracheal rings ; they have been attributed by Rokitansky to an hypertrophy of the muciparous glands. The dilated duct of the hypertrophied cysts may be discovered in the pouch; which confirms the explana- tion of its origin. When met with in the trachea, a similar condi- tion is sometimes traceable in the bronchial tubes. Foreign Bodies in the Trachea.—The presence of extraneous mat- ters in the air passages is always an occurrence of very serious import; but unless the substance becomes impacted in the lima glottidis, it is not immediately fatal; the mucous membrane of the lower portions being less irritable and less liable to produce spas- modic action. The more rough the surface of the foreign body, the sooner inflammation is likely to supervene; and unless it be re- moved by coughing, or by an operative proceeding,, the issue is certain death. If of a globular form, and too large to enter into the bronchi, it will pass up and down in the trachea, giving rise to a variety of sounds. Cherry-stones, buttons, coins, teeth, morsels of food, portions of bone and other things, have thus found their way into the trachea, and remained there or got impacted in the bronchi. Such bodies find their way, in an immense majority of cases, into the right bronchus rather than the left, owing to the former being a more direct continuation of the trachea than the latter. One case is recorded by Mr. Liston,* as a solitary instance, of a piece of bone having lodged in the right bronchus, and having been discovered and removed during life. A triangular piece of mutton-bone had, six months previous to the operation, become entangled in the glottis, and shortly after slipped down the trachea. A perfect recovery resulted. Portions of food may repeatedly pass into the air passages in the case of persons whose power of swallowing is impaired, either from central paralysis, or from the pressure of tumours, aneurism, &c., on the nerves. The food will always pass by preference into the right bronchus, and set up pneumonia of the right lower lobe. The contents of the stomach may sometimes after death be forced up the oesophagus by distension of tho intestines, and reach the same _ destination. Softening of the lung results if the stomach contained fresh gastric fluid, and may be mistaken for gangrene, “ Practical Surgery," 3rd ed. p. 412.