CHAPTER XXL DISEASES OP THE VALVES OF THE HEART. 1 The estimates of different authors with regard to the influonco e exerted by inflammation in producing valvular disease, have varied c considerably. Bouillaud attributes nearly all changes occurring in the valves, such as altered consistency and form, fibrinous con- i cretions, calcareous and ossific deposits, to inflammatory action, • terming them the third stage of the inflammatory process ; while 1 Rokitansky, and many with him, are of opinion that they are only in part the product of endocarditis, but that the majority are the r result of slow changes of nutrition, not connected with inflamma- tory action. The most manifest direct results of endocarditis are white opacity and thickening of the endocardium and the lining ' membrane of the valves, and adhesion between the latter. These - adhesions are most commonly found in the aortic valves, and this ■desion must necessarily constitute a permanent and very serious obstacle to the circulation, in its turn giving rise to further dis- organization and derangement, such as hypertrophy and dilatation, dyspnoea and anasarca. In dealing with this species of malforma- tion it is often very difficult to determine whether it is congenital, or the result of disease, especially -when, subsequent to adhesion, an absorption of the partition separating the two pouches is " effected, and the double valve thus converted into one. The varieties which the fusion of the valves with one another, or their ^adhesion to the walls of the heart, may present, are very numerous. ■ 'In all cases an insufficiency of the valves must result, which both offers an obstacle to the free discharge of the blood from the heart, and fails adequately to close the orifice during the diastole, so as to prevent regurgitation. The left side of the heart generally, and •especially in regard to inflammation, offers by far the greatest proclivity to disease. Very few cases are recorded in which a phlogistic process could be demonstrated on the right side. Glum * gives two observations in which the tricuspid valve was thickened and rendered insufficient by this cause. Wo also find two instances reported in Dr. Hodgkin’s Catalogue of the Museum of Guy’s Atlas der Pathologischen Anatomic,” lfc'50, Liefcrung i. Beobaclitung’, 12 and 12a A A