PYAEMIA AND SEPTICAEMIA. 113 in their production is the obstruction of the capillaries by some • substance which (like Cruveilhier’s mercury globule) causes local inflammation. (3) This substance is transferred from the seat of primary inflammation to those of secondary inflammation. It is, however, quite certainly not pus. Classification of Experimental Results.—The experiments which most concern us here maybe arranged under three heads:—(1) Injection of pus into the veins or subcutaneous tissue ; (2) injec- tion of liquids containing septic or other supposed poisonous sub- stances; (3) introduction into the veins of small solid masses or ' powders of various kinds. (1) Injections of pus produced very dis- cordant results, till it was seen that the effects of liquid constituents :and of any solid particles which the pus may contain are very diffe- rent. Hence the later experimenters have carefully distinguished I the effects of filtered pus or simple pus-serum from that of the un- filtered liquid. In the former case there is one constant symptom, viz., fever, or rise of the body temperature,* but metastatio ’abscesses do not occur, and perfect recovery may take place. The injection of pus containing solid masses or flocculi was found (especially by 0. Weber) to cause, first, obstruction of the capillary circulation in parts of the lung (capillai’y embolisms), and finally the formation of abscesses in the parts thus affected. (2) The injec- tion into the veins of various fluids derived from gangrenous inflam- imations, infusions of putrid matters, putrid pus, &c., if carefully : filtered, has never caused the production of actual abscesses in ‘ the lungs, though it has caused local disturbances of circulation, l ecchymoses (Savory), and various constitutional symptoms with • which we are not now concerned. (3) Introducing small solid •' masses into the veins has the unavoidable result of causing ob- - structions of circulation (be., arterial or capillary embolisms) with the results described in another part of this work.f and if the [ substances introduced are non-irritating (wax, india-rubber, &c.) | nothing more. But if substances are used which mechanically wound and injure the vessels, as fragments of elder pith (Virchow) I or charcoal, inflammation is produced, the point of obstruction I sometimes leading to abscess. Chemically irritating substances, I - as mercury (Cruveilhier and Panum), produce still more marked j inflammation, leading to abscess; and the most intense suppura- f tion of this kind is produced by putrid or decomposing clots. | Extremely fine powders produce cajfillary obstruction, but if they I are non-irritating no further result ensues (Savory) than the r ordinary results of capillary embolism elsewhere described (viz., infarction and haemorrhage). It is clear then that the super- addition of inflammation to capillary obstruction depends not on O. . evidence on this point is too clear and unanimous to be entirely invalidated by am r® <liscoverV t.luit the injection of ««// liquid, for instance water or even the animal "own blood into the veins, has some effect in causing a rise of temperature. T 0,:e Embolism,”in chapter on “ The Organs of Circulation.” I