CAUSES OF ANEURISM. 383 determine whether the excessive pressure acts directly by causing dilatation, or indirectly by causing arterial disease which favours dilatation. At all events, the localization of the disease must be determined by the state of the vascular wall; while the excessive tension will act as a general predisposing cause. Laceration of the Coats.—The laceration of the internal coat of the artery may occur at the early stages of the diseases, and be the first exciting cause of the aneurismal tumour. The aorta of a lady, whose case is detailed by Mr. Hodgson,* illustrated this mode of the formation of aneurism. The coats of the vessel were diseased, and presented at the arch a transverse rent, about an mcli in length, which had penetrated to the middle coat. The blood had insinuated itself between the middle and external coats, the latter of which was elevated into a tumour, about two inches in cu-cumference. A similar appearance was found in the body of George II. We see no difficulty in regard to this view of the occasional origin of aneurism. That the early stages should not often be presented to us m the dead subject, is easily accounted for by the rapid distension that will take place after the first lacera- fion, and the equally rapid laminated deposit of the defensive h brine. Rokitansky, however, denies this mode of origin alto- gether, stating that no such rent is ever detected. Another ques- tion is whether laceration of an artery ever occurs without some previous derangement in its coats, in what is termed the traumatic a'le’,m?m’.Wlthout a Penetrating wound. The extreme pliability and elasticity of the arterial system, compared with all the tissues that surround it, might alone suffice to answer the question , but the direct physiological experiments performed by Mr. Hodgson and Mr. Hunter, and Sir Everard Home.f as well as the pathological observations by the former,! positively determine the point m the negative. Mr. Hodgson states that he has repeat- ly tried, in imitation of Richerand, to produce a laceration of he internal and middle coats of the popliteal artery, by violently extending the leg upon the thigh ; but that he has never lacerated the coats of the artery unless the degree of violence was sufficient to rupture the hgaments of the knee, an event which certainlv cloes not generally accompany those accidents to which patients dtinDute the origin of aneurism. Embolism a Cause of Aneurism.—It has been latelv made out that certain forms of aneurism, especially those of the cerebral arteries, are m some cases due to the previous existence of embol- ism, the immediate effects of which have passed away The run cess seems to be as follows :-the artery obstructed by an embolus" at length becomes pervious again, but the wall at this point is left so permanently injured and weakened that it readily dilates into * “On the Arteries,” pp. 89 and 63. l^e,^„r?p°;440f a B0Ci6ty f°r thB Imi)rOVemont of Medical and Sulcal ICnow- t “ On the Arteries," p. 61.