PYEMIA and septicemia. 117 ( than they are. Again, it has been supposed that the corpuscles of : the blood acquire some property which may be termed adhesive- i ness, which causes them to agglomerate together, and to block up : the minute capillaries. But obstruction of capillaries by such : masses has not been observed in pyaemia, though it has been in other diseases in a few instances. Whichever of these views bo : adopted it is clear that the next important question is whether any morbid poison does enter the blood from the inflamed part; and if so, what this poison is. We therefore return to examine the hypothesis which we assumed on setting out. Specific Theory of Pyaemia.—The embolic theory, as well as i others, requires the assumption that some morbid poison is dis- tributed through the body from the primary seat of disease; but opinions differ greatly as to the probable nature of this poison. : Some have attempted to discover it by chemical moans, and have extracted from the putrid matters supposed to excite pyaemia a number of substances, such as ammonia, sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphide of ammonium, and various products of decomposition, which, when introduced into the blood of animals, have produced various morbid symptoms, but not pysemia. Decomposing albu- minous matters have also been supposed to act as a ferment on the blood. More recently a substance, to which the name of sepsin has been given, has been isolated, in the form of a combination with sulphuric acid, and even crystallized. It is said to produce all the poisonous effects of putrid substances in a most intense degree. It appears to be soluble in water, not volatile, not destroyed by boiling or evaporation to dryness. But it must remain for the present doubtful whether this is a pure substance. On the other hand, there are many who regard the hypothetical poison as an organism of the group Yibriones or Bacteria. Reck- linghausen has observed such forms, which he calls micrococci, in pysemic abscesses. Burdon Sanderson has traced similar organisms in the fluids of a large class of infective inflammations. Klebs believes it to be a true fungus, which he calls microsporon septicuvi, and several other pathologists have made similar observations. It seems to be clear, however, that the ordinary bacteria found in putrefying fluids cannot produce pyaemia; though they may, if injected into the blood, produce marked constitutional derange- ment, and also obstruction of capillaries. This subject is further discussed in the section on Vegetable Parasites. On the whole, we must conclude that pyaemia is a general disease produced by some morbid poison, either self-generated or introduced from without; but that the nature of this poison is not yet known. The most prominent lesions (abscesses and blocks) found in many cases of pytemia, are not essential to the disease, but the rosult of secondary processes, which effect a peculiar distribution of the poisonous substance. Cases of pyaemia in which such lesions are absent are nevertheless ex- tremely difficult to distinguish from tho othor conditions into