599 IN TESTIN'All CHANGES IN SPECIFIC DISEASES. tlie calibre of the intestine in the shape of valvular or annular folds, thus giving rise to a stricture in the colon of a very peculiar form.” Instead of reparation taking place, the disease may con- tinue in a chronic though altered form ; the remaining mucous membrane being in a state of chronic catarrhal inflammation, and the intervening parts being the seat of suppuration with formation of sinuses and abscesses. Dysentery, as described above, is undoubtedly a specific disease ; probably in most cases, some persons would say in all, communi- cated by infection. It has many points of resemblance to diph- theria, so that some have spoken of it as intestinal diphtheria. INTESTINAL CHANGES IN SPECIFIC DISEASES. Intestinal Changes in Scarlatina.—The agminated and solitary glands of the ileum are found in some cases of scarlet fever enlarged and vascular, as in early stages of the typhoid change. More rarely the process goes on to actual ulceration. It is pro- bable that some degree of the same change may accompany other acute febrile diseases. It has been several times observed in diphtheria. * Dr. John Harley f has made an extensive series of observations on the intestinal changes in scarlet fever. He has found in twenty- seven cases out of twenty-eight the Peyer’s patches, especially in the lower third of the ileum, elevated and injected, sometimes swollen like a cock’s-comb, or of a dark purple colour, and occa- sionally almost ecchymotic. The solitary glands of the ileum were, in half the cases, enlarged, granular, and whitish, like sago- grains. In a smaller number of cases the solitary glands of the colon were similarly enlarged, and more rarely the general mucous surface was injected. In one case acute desquamation of nearly the whole of the mucous membrane of the large intestine was observed. He never saw ulceration of the solitary or agminated glands, except in some cases which he regarded as typhoid fever supervening on scarlatina. . Simple or unexplained Ulceration of the Intestines.—Cases some- times occur in which ulcers of the intestines, not unlike those associated with enteric fever, are met with, but where there is no evidence of this disease having existed, nor of any other associated morbid lesions. This may be the case in the ileum or in the colon. Some of these puzzling cases may be found recorded in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xviii. pp. 101-104, by Dr. Whipham and Dr. Dickinson ; who observed numerous ulcers in the colon, for which no cause except chronic constipation could be assigned. Intestinal Changes in Cholera.—The appearances in this disease * Cayley, “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xvii. p. 123. + “ Med-Chir. Tians.," vol. Iv. p. 103.