VESICULAR EMPHYSEMA. 461 compressed and obliterated by pressure, and it is probably the blocking up of vessels containing blood, which produces the abun- lant pigmentation which the walls of the cavities also show. Form of the Thorax in Emphysema.—The following is the descrip* tion given by Sir W. Jenner:— The thorax is barrel-shaped; the rntero-posterior lateral and vertical diameters are increased; the sternum is arched ; the lower cervical, dorsal, and upper lumbar spine is curved, with the concavity forward; the ribs are too hori- ?ontal; the intercostal spaces are widened, and but little, if at all, lepressed below the level of the ribs; the posterior bulgings on -itker side of the vertebral column are greater than they should re; the costal angle is larger than in health; the diaphragm lattened, and the lower part of the sternum forced forward. ° Varieties of Emphysema.—Emphysema is in most cases confined o certain parts of the lung. The parts most commonly affected ire the anterior borders of the upper lobes on both sides”, and less generally other peripheral parts, as the lower borders of each lobe. This partial emphysema occurs in lungs, of which some part is mpermeable to air through hepatization, compression, infiltration, nduration, or any other cause. Such a condition is in all proba- lility often produced during the last hours of life, or the death rtruggle by the violent efforts of inspiration; and is more often iresent than absent in post-mortem examinations. This variety aas been called acute, vicarious or compensatory emphysema, but he same condition is produced chronically when parts of the lung re from any cause impermeable to air, constituting chronic rcanous emphysema. In both the acute and chronic conditions -rst mentioned it is hard to draw the line between true emphysema nd simple distension of the lung. Chronic Substantive Emphysema.—The condition known as actual r substantive emphysema is produced by chronic processes during ic, and is much more important than that just described. This but very rarely spread over the whole lung ; more generally one wbe only is affected, and especially the peripheral parts of this, reneral emphysema of both lungs is probably quite unknown, or £ feast excessively rare. In all these cases the morbid condition ^•redorninates very much at the parts above mentioned. It is also cten localized at certain spots where there is condensation and Mntraction of the lung, as is often the case at the apex. etn/f or Atrophic Emphysema.—Although atrophy of the walls of 16 ®n’ ce‘^s cannot be regarded as the primary change in ordinary ‘ phjseina, there is a form of tho disease in which this appears to 3 he case. It occurs especially, or even exclusively in old age “ is accompanied by a diminution instead of increase in the sizo°of ,lng. HenceSirW. Jenner distinguishes this form as “ small- ' °fr en?physema.” The lungs collapse very completely when cnest is opened, so much so that in Jenner’s words “ tho weight elung may be sufficient to cause it to fall in like an inflated - -o of wet paper.” The air vesicles are in this form not distended