MORBID GROWTHS OF THE UTERUS. 739 has described a variety of destruction which differs from cancer only in not being accompanied by an indurated deposit. No account of the microscopic appearances of the part so affected is on record ; a link is therefore wanting to enable us to pronounce positively as to the nature of the disease. It is piobably a loim of “rodent ulcer,” called by the late Mr. C. Moore “rodent cancer,” and having marked affinities to epithelioma. The absence of induration, the cleanly cut margins of the sore, the want of fixation of the uterus, and the comparatively slow course of the disease, all tend to separate it pretty widely from the ordinary forms of cancerous ulceration. It is of very rare occur- rence ; Dr. Ashwell, in the course of an extensive practice cf twenty years, only twice met with it. ACCUMULATIONS IN THE UTERINE CAVITY. Uydrornetra.—The cavity of the uterus may become dilated by an accumulation of fluid within it. This occurs, independently of the accumulation of menstrual blood, in individuals past the climac- teric, in whom some catarrhal or other inflammatory condition exists, and is combined with obstruction of the orifice, usually of the os internum. In such cases mucus or pus may accumulate, and distend the uterus to a considerable size—not often larger than the fist—very rarely to the size of the pregnant uterus at full time. The walls are usually thin, and more fibrous than muscular; the mucous membrane atrophied and pale. The accumulated fluid undergoes, in time, considerable changes, and though it mav have beeu at first purulent or viscid, it becomes in the end watery and thin, sometimes colourless, sometimes yellow or brown. If the os externum be obstructed, both the body and cervical portion become dilated; either into one cavity, or if the os externum be also narrow, into an hour-glass shape. The obstruction of the orifices giving rise to this condition may be caused by inflammation, by cystic polypi of the cervix, by flexion, or by other causes. Hcematometra is the name given to accumulation of menstrual blood in the uterus, through congenital closure of the hymen, the external parts, or, more rarely, of the os externum or internum. The dilatation may be, especially in cases of imperforate hymen, very great indeed, at least equal to that of pregnancy. The relaxed blood becomes thick, black, and tarry. Physometra, or accumulation of air in the uterus, is sometimes observed after severe labours, as the result of decomposition of placental residues. MORBID GROWTHS—FIBRO-MUSCULAR TUMOURS AND POLYPI. The abnormal formations that most frequently present them- selves in the uterus are fibroid or fibro-muscular tumours; lhey