COAGULATION OP BLOOD IN THE HEABT. 351 vessels. This occurrence is now believed to depend not on endo- carditis, but on other causes imperfectly understood. It is how- ever, not the less important. The coaguJa formed by inflammation were described by Bouillaud as colourless, elastic, and glutinous and closely resembling the huffy coat of inflammation, or false membranes themselves. The symptom by which Bouillaud recog- nized this occurrence before death was a want of accordance between the pulse and the heart in point of force; the heart presenting evidence of violent excitement and action, while the pulse was small and evanescent. Gluge * describes organized fibrinous coagula under the name of heematoma, and gives an inter- esting description, with the minute anatomy of the clot of a case whmh occurred in a female, aged fifty-two. The left auricle was filled with a red tumour, surrounded by a delicate membrane, in the mtenor of -which he distinctly traced capillary vessels form- mg a retiform plexus. Similar instances may be also found in the records of the Pathological Society, and in Dr. Hodgkin’s Catalogue of Guy s Hospital Museum. ° The surface in such cases is found more or less intimatelv connected with the endocardium, while the interior of the clot may, in its turn, be undergoing further changes of an inflam- matory or degenerative character. The fibrine is seen to be breaking up into a granular condition ; exudation or inflammation corpuscles and fibro-plastic cells may be exhibited by the micro- scope. This sometimes gives rise to a substance almost exactlv lesembhng pus to the naked eye, but the microscope will show well-maiked differences. The elements seen are mostly atrophic and degenerated leucocytes, and even if cells which individuallv resemble pus-ceffs are found, they are not in so great numbers as bae- fill 1 tenPUS' .„bometlmes the cl°t is converted into a mere bag filled with punform material. These coagulations verv often ofLaTnnec.8 ' f°m’ COnstltut“g vegetations globuLl Dntmction of Ante-mortem Coaqula.—The older uatbnlno-^+o attnbuted a much greater importance to KS l nheVeTed I16™’ !,ol3T1’ in the heart, than they now obtain’ It !isgf n°l theU being leSai'hed as the immediate cause of death’ nnrr p}' “ rareJ cases that we ehan be justified in looW upon them as products formed during life • in the maiorit.v instances they arc merely the first evidence of the arrest of dSvy’menhfe inrr■ lnflrces of metamorphoses of • caJ • VVhen formed during the agonv, or alter rWV, +l “ no adhesion to the panotls; the polypusis moulded ’to T cavity which contains it, and a straw-coloured fibrinrma i ^ “vests a blood clot, similar to the buflV coat ^ coagnlum of blood obtained by venesection. The clearest rf16 tmction is, however, afforded by the manner in which She con-" * “ Atlas der Patliologischen Azmloroie,” Lieferuug n