118 SEPTICAEMIA. ■which they pass by insensible gradations, viz., fever resulting from suppuration or surgical fever (called by some writers pyaemia simplex), and the disease believed to be due to the.presence in tne blood of putrid or septic material, called septictemia. The former does not come within the scope of this work ; of the latter we must give some account, though leaving it undetermined whether it is really distinct from the constitutional condition of pyaemia. The two diseases appear to be often combined. SEPTICAEMIA. This has been also called ichorrhsemia, septic pyaemia, or putrid infection. It occurs rarely (some would say never) as an uncomplicated affection. When it supervenes after an injury the following symptoms are observed. At an early date, usuallv two or three days after the injury, the wounded part (which may never suppurate) assumes a swollen, infiltrated, and dis- coloured aspect, or inflammatory oedema, which may become actual gangrene. The febrile action runs high at the commencemeni, but°soon subsides, and the temperature may even fall below the normal. Rigors rarely occur at the outset,. and recurring shiverings do not appear in the course of the affection. The unne sometimes contains albumen. The skin is relaxed and dry, though in rare instances profuse perspiration may usher .in the attack. Delirium is not constant, but apathy, passing into stupor is usually observed. Copious diarrhoea sometimes occurs. I he disease runs a very rapid course, terminating fatally even m a couple of days—but in some instances lasts six or eight days, or even more rarely two or three weeks.* . Morbid Anatomy.— This is not at all characteristic; the blood is usually dark coloured, and imperfectly coagulated, the spleen enlarged, and soft ; liver and kidneys sometimes enlarged. Ike intestines occasionally exhibit haemorrhagic patches and swelling of the follicles, and contain black liquid feces.. Multiple abscesses do not occur; but in the experience of military surgeons.dark coloured metastatic nodules may occur in the pulmonary tissue, which, instead of undergoing suppuration, become gangrenous. Very rapid post-mortem decomposition is the rule. The above symptoms and post-mortem appearances correspond pretty closely with those observed in animals after the experimental injection of putrid animal matter into their veins. But it must be said that the type of disease presented by such animals is more definite and recognizable than any derived from observation oi actual cases of disease in man. And if we call the experi- mental disease septicaemia, the clinical disease seldom pei u resembles it. Our own experience has supplied us with a tew , Fitzgerald, Appendix to Report of Army Medical Department for 1S71.