SUPPURATION. 96 proportion of cells to the other constituents. (Theories as to the origin of these cells we have already alluded to, and shall speak of again.) Thus Sir James Paget distinguishes two types of lymph, the fibrinous and corpuscular, which agree generally with what Rokitansky calls fibrinous and croupous ; the latter being that in which the cells predominate. These cells, called, at different times lymph corpuscles, exudation corpuscles, plastic corpuscles, and embryonic cells, are really identical with the corpuscles ot pus, and cannot he distinguished from the white cells of the blood. Rokitansky* remarks that, as regards the abundance of these elements, exudations form a continuous series, from one with a minimum of them, to that form Pig- 9- which is distinguished by a luxuriant production of them, and is called pus. These differ- ences have often been brought into connection with differences of bodily constitution. Sir James Pagetf found in the fluid derived from blisters in different persons very varying amounts of corpuscular elements, the number being generally in in- verse proportion to their health and strength. These variations he attributes to differences in the condition of the blood. Recent discoveries have led some rather to attribute them to variations in the facility with which blood corpuscles can leave the vessels, and these in all probability to differences in the structure of the vascular walls. This view, however, cannot explain the difference between the basis-substance of different specimens, which is made up of fibres in some and granular matter m others. Another variety of exu- dation, the haemorrhagic, is distinguished by the abundance of red corpuscles, though these, as we have seen, generally pas* out of thePvessels in small number. It has been thought that blood pigment sometimes transudes without the corpuscles, but this has not been clearly proved. Fibrinous exudation on pleura in process of absorption: areolse form in it, and reduce it to filamentous bands SUPPURATION. We have next to consider that form of ' juPr'r'nt cells preponderate enormously, and m which ten c . 1 ‘ » “ Lelirbuch dor Path. Anat.,” third edition jroh i., p. 136. * “ Lectures on Surgical Pathology, second edition, p. 262.