SUPPURATION IN TIIE KIDNEY. 074 4 See a very good figure in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiv. plate 4, by Dr. Uoodhart. if containing finely-divided oily matter. The urine in these cases is found to contain cylindrical masses of pus cells, which have evidently been formed in the renal tubes; this sign, while it lasts, serves to distinguish suppuration in the kidney from that taking place in the bladder, as in the latter case the pus corpuscles form only shapeless masses. The changes in the interstitial substance are not less marked in many cases, and more specially characteristic of this disease. The tubes are seen widely separated, and the intertubular stroma in- filtrated by collections of leucocytes or pus corpuscles, such as are seen in all inflammations, and the accumulation of which consti- tutes pus.* If the walls of the tubes and fibrous structures are softened and broken down, an abscess results, but this is not always the case ; as the inflammatory process, when it starts from affection of the bladder or urethra, seems to become chronic, or to occur in repeated attacks. The evidence of this after death is the irregular wasting and puckering of the surface, the adhesion of the capsule, and beyond the capsule of the fatty and connective tissue round the gland; which can sometimes hardly be removed (Perinephritis). This special participation of the external enve- lopes is explained by a peculiar fact in the distribution of the morbid process, that even when it starts from the pelvis, the next most prominent seat of the disease is the surface ; the intervening part being marked merely by the whitish striation mentioned above. On the surface are seen yellow elevations composed of foci of incipient suppuration, which have a singular resemblance to pus- tules of the skin. With these is active inflammation (though not suppuration) of the capsule and surrounding tissue. The ongm of the pus cells in nephritis may of course be explained on any of the three hypotheses before mentioned (p. 87), but the probability seems great that here, at least, they are emigrated leucocytes.. The mucous membrane of the calyces and pelvis, especially when a calculus is lodged in these cavities, is softened and in- flamed, and secretes a purulent fluid. The ureter is generally comparatively unaffected, but the bladder or urethra, or both, are inflamed in most of these cases; and the urine is usually m a state of alkaline fermentation. . . This fact, combined with certain appearances m the suppurative kidney, has led ivlobs to suppose that the secondary inflammation of the kidney depends on the ascent of bacteria from the pelvis into the uriniferous tubes and kidney substance ; whence he calls the disease Pyelonephritis, or Parasitic Nephritis. In sections of a kidney in this disease, tubes and stroma, he says, often contain collections of brilliant granules, distinguished from fat by their insolubility in acids, alkalies, or ether. These are the bacteria, an the same are contained in alkaline putrefying urine. He believe that such granules occur, and that they are really bacteria, u how far they are to be regarded as the cause of disease is ye