PERICARDITIS. 318 layer varying in size from that of a sixpence to that of a fi ’■ c- shilling piece, and more, which may at times be detached from the subjacent serous membrane, to which they are then connected bv fibrous adhesions. In other cases they are mere thickenings of the pericardium itself, or rather of the subserous cellular tissue, and cannot in that case be detached from it. The former, to use the accurate description of M. Bizot, present at their commencement the form of small transparent elevations, aggregated together with circumscribed edges, and but slightly adherent to the serous mem- brane. They soon lose their transparency, becoming white and opaque, but still capable of being removed without injury to the subjacent serous membrane. They occupy every portion of the heart but lie chiefly in the direction of the blood-vessels. The second variety have no circumscribed margin, they are peculiarly white, and their greatest thickness is m the centre from where they are bevelled off in all directions; these are essentiallyidentical with the pericardium itself, and constitute a true hypertrophy of the membrane. We are ourselves of opinion that they are to be viewXs resulting from two causes; and that while they are in many instances the results of previous inflammation, they mav also represent a simple hypertrophic condition resembling the horny thickenings of the cutis. The great frequency of the occurrence of milk spots* in Bright’s disease of the kidney has been pointed out by some observers, and is obviously connected with the frequem hypertrophy and enlargement of the heart in that disease. Mi snots of this kind are always found on those parts of the heart which are exposed to friction. Thus, when the heart is normal m size the most frequent situation is near the apex, on the area which touches the chest wall. Another situation is the front aspect of the right ventricle, which, m dilatation of the heart, frequently strikes against the walls; and other portions of the ventncularor auricular surface are, for similar reasons, sometimes thus affected. PERICARDITIS. The first effect of inflammation in the pericardium is to produce a reddening and pulpy thickening of the membrane, by the conges- tion of the blood-vessels and interstitial effusion of serosig- A beautiful reticulation of minute vessels is visible to the naked. er > and still better under a low power of the microscope, both o ^ internal and external surfaces of the pericardium exudataonon the free surfaces then follows, which, according to tlie constitut o of the individual, is of a more or less plastic chapterIn the most active forms, the matter produced is a se^;Sd m viUous material of a yellowish hue, forming a reticulated 01 vui * See Dr. Taylor’s paper on the Causes of Pericarditis, in Medico Cli vol. xxviii. p. 468.