CHRONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. tially a different disease. It occurs not only after an attack of acute rheumatism, but after injuries and bruises, and sometimes without apparent cause. It is very frequent in the hip the shoulder, the knee, and the articulations of the hand. When' it is fully established in the hip joint, it is said by Mr. E. Adams rarely or never to extend itself to the other articulations. Some- times both hips only are attacked. When the knee is the seat of the disease, or the shoulder, other joints will, generally, be found more or less implicated. In the case of the knee, Mr. E. Adams recognizes a first stage, “marked by evidences of sub-acute inflammation, such as pain, heat, considerable swelling. This is followed by a second period, in which the heat and swelling diminish, but the pain continues.” We quote from Mr. ~SV Adams’s communication to the Pathological Society, the following account of the appearances ordinarily observed in the advanced stages of chronic rheumatoid arthritis. “In the hip joint: 1st. Great enlargement and irregularity of shape of the head of the femur, which assumes a mushroom-like form, in consequence of real or apparent flattening of its upper part, and nodulated masses and flattened ring-like layers of new bone, surrounding the edge of its articular cartilage, and extend- ing to a variable distance over its articular surface. To this mushroom-like form, the apparent shortening of the neck, in con- sequence of its upper part being concealed by the overhanging margin of new bone at the edge of the articular cartilage, °also contributes. 2ndly. Absence of articular cartilage to a greater or less extent, and the ebumation of the bony surface. 3rdlv. Nodulated masses of new bone, from the size of a hemp-seed to that of a walnut, attached by thin peduncles to the synovial mem- brane on the neck of the bone, or to that of the capsular ligament, —more or less spherical when small, but flattened and irregular when of large size. In the os innominatum: 1st. Increased capacity of acetabulum. 2ndly. Ossification of the fibro-cartilaginous rim, or cotyloid ligament. 3rdly. Absence of articular cartilage to a greater or lesser extent, and eburnation of the exposed bony sur- face. 4thly. Irregular osseous growths (stalactitic osteophytes) on the surface of the bones external to, and immediately surrounding, the joint. In the lcnee-joint, the appearances were essentiallv similar to those in the hip; new osseous growths, of irregular torm, surrounded the margins of the articular cartilages of the femur and tibia; and pedunculated osseous growths, in consider- able numbers, and of all sizes, were attached to the synovial mem- brane, both in the notch and lining the capsule. In addition, however, the articular cartilages on the condyles of the femur pre- sented a thickened nodulated appearance in their central parts.” Mr. E. Adams, describing the condition of the shoulder-joint, says, “ The capsular ligament is occasionally increased in thick- ness, and its fibres are hypertrophied; and it is generally more capacious than natural, showing that effusion of synovia to a con-