392 Timoiriiosis. vein ; in arteries it more often spreads from a main trunk into the branches, but may also extend backwards towards the heart. Thus spreading it may either partially or wholly obstruct the vessel, which it will in the latter case completely fill. The end towards the heart will, in any case, be rounded or bluntly conical. Secondary thrombus is a term sometimes used for coagulation which is the result of inflammation; sometimes, and more properly when the coagulation spreads from one set of vessels to another, as from arteries to capillaries and veins, from capillaries to veins or arteries, &c. Thrombi may also be divided into stratified and unstratified. The latter are formed by the sudden coagulation of all the blood in a vessel, as happens after ligature. The corpuscles of' both kinds and other constituents will here be, at least in the first place, uni- formly distributed. The latter are produced by slow coagulation in successive stages. On section they are found to be composed of layers, and to contain an unusual number of white corpuscles, strata of which alternate with strata of red corpuscles and fibrin. The layers are seldom perfectly parallel to each other or to the walls of the vessel. Thrombosis in different Classes of Vessels.—Local coagulation of blood in the vessels requires special consideration according as it affects veins, arteries, or capillaries. In thrombosis of veins coagulation of blood may be produced, (1) by a general cause ; (2) by some special cause. (1) The best ascertained general causes are retardation of the whole systemic circulation (as, for instance,- from feeble action of the heart) and morbid alterations in the composition of the blood. It is easy to see how any obstruction of the general circulation must cause stagnation of the blood current in the veins, and so favour coagulation; this result is, however, not very often met with as a simple consequence of disease of the heart, but more often when the heart’s action is enfeebled by some wasting disease; in which case other causes doubtless co-operate with the simple retardation. Such cases are with difficulty separated from those in which coagulation is ascribed to some change in the composi- tion of the blood. Thickening of the blood from loss of its serum (as in cholera); increase in the number of white corpuscles (as leuchsemia); the more obscure changes caused by fevers as typhus, are all instances of such predisposing conditions. At the same time, we would point out that this explanation must be used with caution, for such a cause if actually operating ought to produce general coagulation, or at least simultaneous coagulation in several parts of the body; and even the latter is not very often observed. Another probable general cause not vet proved with certainty to be an actual one, is the introduction of some poison into the blood, or its generation there, as the hypothetical poison of pyaemia. (2) Special or local causes are far more efficient in producing coagulation in veins. Of these pressure is the most common .