MOBBED CONDITIONS OF CABTILAGE. 814 is normal; at the same time the tissue becomes very soft and yield- ing, and shows a decided tendency to break up into fibres, which are arranged vertically to the surface. There is some evidence to show that, at a later period, cartilages, so altered, would waste and disappear. In advanced age articular cartilages become con- siderably thinned—at least this is the case in the hip, and, pro- bably, more or less in all joints that are exposed to pressure. Some- times the cartilage is simply atrophied; in other cases it is replaced by a semi-translucent, and in others again by a white fibroid tissue. Sometimes the cartilage seems itself to ossify, being con- verted into what is called the ivory or porcellaneous deposit. This is a peculiarly dense kind of bone; its Haversian canals being filled up by the earthy salts. Besides occurring as a gradual, almost unperceived change in the aged, it is also met with very constantly in the disease termed chronic rheumatic arthritis, of which we shall presently speak. Gouty Deposit in Cartilages.—The free surface of cartilages is sometimes covered with a thin layer of urate of soda ; and the same matter may also exist in the substance of the cartilage, in the caneelli of the invested bone, and in the subsynovial tissue. It is deposited as the result of gout. The appearance of the articular surfaces is precisely as if they were smeared with white paint. On examining these in vertical sections it is, however, seen that the greater part, if not all, is really contained in the substance of the cartilage, and that the complete infiltration of the superficial layer causes it to appear as if it were actually deposited externally. The urate of soda is in the form of bunches of crystals, like those shown in Pig. 163, deposited in the intercellular substance. Atrophy, or Usure of Cartilage.—It is not uncommon, on opening joints which are not apparently diseased, to find the cartilages more or less deficient at one or more points, and this especially in the parts where they have had to bear the greatest pressure. The cartilage is eroded more or less deeply, so that in the seat of the lesion the bone may be exposed, and this with scarce any traces of inflammation in the synovial membrane. Sir B. Brodie “has many times observed a portion of cartilage of a joint wanting, and in its place a thin layer of hard, semi-transparent substance, of a grey colour, and presenting an irregular granulated substance." This indicates a partial atrophy, and destruction of the cartilage, with imperfect replacement of it by a fibrinous exudation. We have examined the knee-joint of a female, aged forty-seven, who died of pleuro-pneumonia,, in which the cartilage of the femoral condyles, and of the patella, was manifestly in a state of chronic atrophy, or “usure,” as it has been termed by Cruveilhier. There was a sight injection of one of the natural synovial fringes, but no trace of inflammatory action ; the joint, externally, appeared quite healthy, and no complaint had been made respecting it during life. The cartilage of the patella was most affected; it presented, at its external part, an unequal, irregular surface, about the size of a