309 THE NERVES. Fig. 75. instances recorded of the vagus having been reddened and swollen, indicating inflammatory action, hut the large majority of cases in which the point has been attended to have presented no such change. Thus Dr. Albers examined the vagi, in forty-seven children who had died of hooping-cough, and found them per- fectly normal in forty-three; Dr. West, who has also paid especial attention to the subject, has, only in one case out of eighteen, met with any change in the nerves; in this case they were de- cidedly redder than usual. We are inclined to conclude, with the latter author, that an appearance so frequently absent cannot be one of much moment, and that, like Cotugno’s famous case, to which we have just referred, it may be set down to a cadaveric change. Atrophy of Nerves.—The morbid condition most commonlv seen in the nerves throughout the body is atrophy; this, however, can rarely be said to be a primary affec- tion; it is brought on by various causes, such as the following(1) Pressure, acting immediately upon the nerve, and causing gradual, and even entire absorption at the point upon which the pressure acts; this we find occurring in the case of aneurism, or enlarged glands, lying in the vicinity of nerves. (2) Atrophy of the nerve results from the part to which it is sup- plied ceasing to perform the func- tions for which it receives the nerve; thus atrophy of the optic nerve may follow destruction of the eye, by mechanical injury (as in the case figured); or the nerve of an extremity wastes, when the muscles of the part are condemned to inactivity. (3) It may result from some lesion or functional inac- t ivity of that part of the central nervous system with which the nerve is connected. In cases of atrophy and degeneration of the spinal cord, the nerves passing from the diseased portion aro necessarily 111 an atrophic condition; thus, in an instance given by Cruveilhier, * >n Which the disorganization of the cord was limited to the pos mnor strands, extending from the lower end to the cerebellum, the Portion of a cerebrum -noth the optic nerves and remains of the left eye. The cornea is opaque, and the coats of the eye are collapsed. The left optic nerve is considerably diminished in size between the diseased eye and the optic commissure. Behind the commissure, the nerve on the right side is rather smaller than that on the left, but the thalami appear to be of equal size. (From St. Bartholomew’s Museum* Series viii. No. 5.) ' “ Anat. Pathol.,” livr. xxxii. p. 19.