752 HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY OF THE UTERUS. distinguish some of the morbid from the healthy conditions of the organ. The weight and dimensions of the adult uterus fluctuate in health considerably. Kib.an * gives the following as the result of his measurements:—The entire length varies from twenty-four to twenty-six lines; the greatest breadth is eighteen lines; the greatest thickness, nine lines: the cervix is from ten to twelve lines long ; its breadth from six to eight lines ; its thickness from five to six lines : the length of the uterine cavity is twelve lines, its breadth nine lines ; the greatest thickness of the fundus, five lines, of the sides, four lines, and of the cervix, three lines. After one or more births all these measurements increase from one-fifth to one quarter. The weight of the uterus varies from eight to twelve drachms, and may, after several pregnancies, amount to two ounces. With the aid of this table we shall be better able to deteimine whether we have to deal with a morbidly enlarged or diminished uterus. Either affection may involve the entire organ, or be manifested in a part only. In certain cases, the uterus continues through the whole or part of adult life in the undeveloped condition met with in childhood, the various parts being perfectly formed—and, indeed, occasionally expanding at midd o age—but the size of the organ not increasing as usual at puberty. This condition, which receives the name of “infantile uterus,” may or may not be accompanied with ovarian defects, and is usually, though not always, associated with absence of sexual desire and the power of conception. The infantile condition of the uterus is characterized by its small size, so that the uterus seems scarcely wider than the vagina, and by the disproportionate size of the cervix and comparative small- ness of the fundus. This condition is sometimes seen in chlorosis, accompanied by defective development of the circulatory appa- ratus, as first pointed out by Virchow,f whose observations we have been able completely to confirm. ■ The term atrophy should not be applied to the persistent infantile condition of the uterus just noticed, but should be limited to those comparatively rare cases in which the considerable dwindling in size and activity met with at the climacteric period in advanced middle age is brought about at’ an unusually early period. Even in these cases, however, ovarian activity usually ceases with the premature involution of the uterus. The cei vix is sometimes the chief seat of the atrophic changes, but it is more common for the entu’e organ to assume a fibrous, anaemic, attenuated appearance. Certain of these instances of general atrophy of the uterus are due to what Sir J. V. Simpson styled “ superinvolution ” of the uterus after parturition. Partial atrophy, caused by the pressure of ovarian or other adjacent tumours, or “ eccentric atrophy,” due to a thinning ot * “Die Geburtslehre,” &c., von Dr. H. F. Kilian, vol. i. p. 92. Frankfurt, 1S39. t Virchow, “ Die Ohlorose,” u.s.w. Berlin, 1872.