SUPPURATION. 103 appear dark, on account of their opacity; by direct, of a dead white. Their structure will be best understood from an account of their development. It is now generally admitted that, as first shown by Reinhardt, granulous cells or glomeruli are the result of the transformation of other cells, either of normal or pathological formation. For instance, the cells of ordinary epithelium, and normal elements of the brain (probably those of the neuroglia), may undergo this change as well as mucus or pus-corpuscles, and the cells of any new growth, as cancer. The process consists, there is no doubt, in the formation of fatty molecules within the cell-protoplasm, and the gradual replacement of its albuminous by fatty material. This process is usually described as one of degeneration, and it is often induced by failure of nutrition, but recent observations on the early stages of inflammation in the brain (Strieker) show that deposition of fat must play some important part in the formation also of new elements. It is to be remarked, in conclusion, that a very abundant cell-growth commonly takes place in exudations, many particles of which are correctly denominated granular cells! These are not to be mistaken in descriptions for the granule-cells, into which they often undergo metamorphosis. The similarity of the name is unfortunate, but the subjoined sketch will make the i distinction between the two very apparent. Moreover the granules contained in living cells (leucocytes, &c.) are in a great measure of albuminous composition, and dissolve in acetic acid, by which fatty granules are unaltered. The formation of granule-cells (glomeruli) in an exudation is a much less serious matter than the formation of pus. Inflamed lungs may contain myriads of the : former and recover well, far better than if they were infiltrated ! ' with pus. Varieties and Degenerations of Pus.— In various unhealthy states of the system pus is formed, which differs in several respects irom that which we have now described. Small fibrinous flakes epithelial particles, cholesterine scales, and prisms of triple phos- phate may be mingled with it, as well as varying quantities of free oil. The pus-globules are in such cases often ill-shaped feebly formed, conveying the idea of very defective formative power , the quantity of granular matter mingled with them is much increased. Ia Certain unhealthy kinds of pus, which Rokitansky comprises under the term (Jauche) sanies, are especially distinguished bv their corrosive action upon the tissues, which he contrasts m/ ticularly with the bland quality of healthy pus. Their appearance is not at all constan tly different from that of the normal fluid but they are apt to bo thinner more tinged by hiematine, of an o’ffen ■ eive or ammoniacal smell, and to communicate a sensation of pricking or itching to the finger when applied to them Their corpuscles are s unted, and their developments aro variouslv alteied, apparently by the “gnawing” action of the serum m