701 ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF THE URINARY PASSAGES. all the forms of cystic disease before mentioned, must be compared with similar conditions of the ovary and testicle. The whole kidney is found converted into a compound cystic structure, which may sometimes attain so large a size, even in the foetus, as seriously to interfere with birth. Less extreme cases will of course survive into infantile or even adult life. The condition may go on increasing after birth. A simultaneous cystic dege- neration of the liver has been observed.* ANOMALOUS CONDITIONS OF THE URINARY PASSAGES. Under these we comprise the ureters, and their upper termi- nations, the pelvis and calyces of the kidney. The ureters may terminate, from congenital defect, in a cul-de-sac, either in the vicinity of the kidney or of the bladder. Sometimes they are double or triple, usually from fissure of the pelvis of the kidney, but they generally unite again before their vesical termination. Dilatation.—It is not uncommon to find them considerably dilated, when the opening into the bladder has been greatly narrowed or obliterated. The calyces expand at the expense of the renal tissue, and extend outwards towards the surface, till at length there remains only a thin layer of the cortical substance compressed against the investing capsule, and the kidney is con - verted into a number of pouches, separated by membranous loculi, which contain the remains of the medullary cones. The surface of the kidney becomes lobulated in a marked manner from the pouches pressing outward between the interlobular septa. The ureters are at the same time distended, sometimes to that extent that they resemble a portion of small intestine ; at tbe same time their walls are somewhat thickened, so that they do not appear to be much thinner than natural; they only attain, however, a con- siderable thickness when there is concurrent inflammation. The ureters become also increased in length, and therefore do not lie straight, but are thrown into coils or flexures. Dilated ureters are usually divided by imperfect septa, resembling valves, and it has been supposed that these are new formations ; but some indi- cation of such a division is often seen in the normal ureter. Their mucous lining does not appear to be so often inflamed or ulcerates as that of the calyces and pelvis. The pouches formed by the dilatations of these are often filled with puriform fluid, or with a mixture of pus and urine, or even with clear serum only. To the latter condition the term hydrops renalis, or hydronephrosis, has been given ; it is also called sacculated kidney. It seems to’take place when the obstruction to the flow of the urine into the bladder is complete, and when in consequence, after extreme distension and atrophy of the renal tissue, the secretion of true urine ceases, and * “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. vii. p. 229.