DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. 808 of coagulahle lymph, or in thickening of the inflamed membrane.” Fibrinous matter is, however, if the disease continue long, or often recur, effused either on the inside or outside of the synovial membrane, and becoming gradually organized into a fibroid tissue, thickens its substance and renders it sometimes firm and gristly! A preparation in the museum of St. George’s Hospital, shows the synovial membrane of the knee-joint so altered in this way as to be nearly an inch thick. It may be difficult, if not irnposs'ible, to detect the presence of fluid in the cavity of a joint which is in this state. Serous effusion, to a considerable amount, sometimes takes place in the synovial sac, without any manifest inflamma- tion. The affection is analogous to hydrocele, and belongs to the class of passive dropsies. Its causes are generally obscure. Suppuration.—'When abscess occurs in a joint, the pus is com- monly mixed with more or less of synovial fluid, and flakes of lymph, and is sometimes quite of a sea-green colour. There is, also, sometimes, suppuration outside the joint, the colour of the muscles is altered, the periosteum and the osseous structure in the vicinity are injected and inflamed. A rapid effusion of pus into the synovial cavities of joints, not unfrequently occurs in pyaemia, puer- peral fever, erysipelas, and in cases of contamination of the blood by some morbid matter. In one instance of this kind, occurring after a thecal abscess in a finger, we found the synovial membrane forming the margin of one of the ligamenta alaria of the knee- joint manifestly injected, and fringed with a number of various- sized villous projections. These consisted of a fibro-homogeneous, granulous substance, imbedding numerous glomeruli. A layer of similar matter was spread over the whole of the synovial surface, which was not injected with blood. The cartilage was ulcerated in some part of its extent, its surface rendered irregular by super- ficial erosions, and its texture altered to a lax fibroid stuff. The cartilage cells in these parts were most remarkably changed, con- taining sometimes from twenty to twenty-five celloid masses in their interior, instead of the two or three which they might con- tain in their normal state (see Fig. 186); showing, therefore, the same changes as in simple ulceration of cartilage, to be hereafter described. The intercellular substance was entirely deprived of its natural consistence; it broke down under slight pressure. Some- times complete destruction of the cartilage and part of the bone result from acute suppuration (in pyaemia); but in general the disease has too rapid a course to produce serious changes. Chronic Suppuration, or White Swelling.—In this condition, accord- ing to Rokitansky, ‘‘the quantity of purulent fluid effused into the cavity of the joint is generally considerable, and the capsule is, consequently, much enlarged; the synovial membrane is lined with a firm, shreddy layer of lymph, which is dissolving into pus, and a soft, purulent precipitate, which can be easily removed, adheres to the cartilages.” The layer of fibrine, lining the synovial membrane, “ is opaque and lustreless, its surface is rough, and