440 THE LAKYNX. syphilitic or phthisical disease; and in this way extensive destruc- tion of the deeper structures produced. Primary perichondritis, or inflammation of the membrane cover- ing the cartilages, occurs most often as a consequence of syphilis! It may give rise to an abscess, which causes even fatal obstruction of the glottis before it bursts; or to deep-seated ulceration and necrosis of the cartilage.* Abscess very rarely occurs independent of syphilis, t The necrosed cartilage may he completely separated by suppura- tion and even expectorated during life. New Growths in the Larynx.—These have lately received much attention since their examination has been facilitated by the laryn- goscope. In the great majority of cases they are seated on the vocal chords. According to the statistics of Dr. Morell Mackenzie,$ the most common form of growth is a papilloma or papillary out- growth, consisting of an hypertrophied vascular papilla with more or less connective tissue, and covered with epithelium, some- times sessile, sometimes pedunculated. These amounted to 07 per cent, in his list of cases (from which all cancers or malignant tumours were carefully excluded). Eihromata, including fibrous and so-called fibro-cellular tumours, come next, giving 16 per cent. These are generally pedunculated and make up the chief part of what have been called fibrous or mucous polypi. Other simple tumours, such as myxoma, lipoma, adenoma, angioma, and cystic growths have been very rarely observed, mostly in one or two instances only. Sarcoma is somewhat more frequent; nine cases of the spindle-celled variety having been observed or collected by Dr. Mackenzie. Simple epithelial growths, produced by mere hyperplasia of the epithelium, without any outgrowth of papillse (as in papilloma), and sessile, constituted 5 per cent, of the cases. Epithelioma is not common, though we cannot form any opinion as to its relative frequency as compared with other growths. It may form prominent outgrowths, but its more constant and more dangerous habit is to cause deep ulceration, which, after destroying the larynx, may perforate the oesophagus. Cancer (scirrhous or medullary) is extremely rare.§ _ The laryngeal cartilages have a tendency to ossily in advanced life in obedience to the general law affecting similar structures, hut this metamorphosis is also produced by disease ; and it is pro- bably in those cases of chronic laryngitis chiefly, which are con- nected with a rheumatic diathesis, and originate in the perichond- rium, that this metamorphosis takes place. The larynx is not so liable to be affected by tumours or foreign bodies pressing upon it » “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1864, vol. xv. p. 36. + “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” 1868, vol. xix. p. 74. ± “ Essay on Growths in the Larynx.” London, 1871. § Cases of epithelioma of the larynx are recorded in Hie I’ath<j_ „ M. actions,” vol. x. p. 63; vol. xii, pp. 44, 104 ; vol. xin. pp. >3, 2b, tol. xy PP- 5.1, &4, vol xvii. pp. 22! 33; vol. xviii. p. 26, &c. Primary cancer of the meduUai; kina is recorded by Hr. Broadbent, vol. xii. p. 44 (second case). ‘ Pathological Trans-