CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OVARIES. the ovary, or ovarian apoplexy. Hemorrhage may occur quite independently of menstruation, even in infants; there is, then, no discharge into a Graafian follicle. This condition has been observed in purpura htemorrhagica and in some fevers. IYTLA1I.MATIOX OF THE OVARIES. hinny of the symptoms referred to inflammation of the ovaries during life are probably due to mere congestion, which produces hyperesthesia. True inflammation, however, may occur, and this either in the puerperal state or independently of it. The former will be discussed hereafter. Non-puerperal inflammation, or Oophoritis, may, according to Klob,* be either follicular or parenchymatous. In the former the follicles are swollen, filled with serous or purulent fluid and detached masses of the lining membrane (membrana granulosa); it leads to the destruction of the inflamed follicles, but no other important result. It is always confined to one ovary. In the parenchymatous form, which may be combined with that just mentioned, the stroma of the organ is affected, the ovary appears much swollen, vascular, and oodematous ; and on section the follicles are scarcely visible. It leads to considerable destruction of the follicles, and may occur simultaneously on both sides. It is always accompanied by some inflammation of the peritoneal surface. This form of inflammation, especially if combined with the follicular form, may result in suppuration, though this is rare. More frequently it passes away, leaving behind it some induration and adhesion of the ovary to neighbouring parts, or may pass into a chronic form. The right ovary is far more frequently affected than the left (Klob). CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE OVARIES. The production of cysts in the ovary is a subject of great com- plexity and importance. On the one hand, a certain form of cyst- production is so common as to be of no practical importance, and almost to be regarded as normal; while, on the other hand, cystic growths may be among the largest and most formidable growths to which the body is liable. We must, accordingly, endeavour to classify the cases, that they may be conveniently discussed, under the following heads:—(1) Simple, or Unilocular Cysts; (2) Tubo-ovarian Cysts; (3) Compound, or Multiloeular Cysts; and (4) Dermoid Cysts. 1. Simple, or Unilocular Cysts.—There is no doubt that these arise from enlargement of the Graafian follicles. It may not be super- * “ Dio Palhologische Anatomic der Weiblicheu Sexual Organe,” A ien, ISOl a work to which we must specially acknowledge our obligations.