EMPHYSEMA. 459 than the cavity itself. On the walls of these cavities, which ; have been called infundibula (Rossignol) or intercellular passages ( (lhuney) are situated the air cells, which are hemispherical struc- i .tures, and therefore open very widely into the common infundibular v;space, the septa dividing the alveoli being very shallow. In an earlier stage of development, as seen in the foetal lung, the alveoli . are grouped around the infundibulum like the acini of a racemose gland, so that the whole lung may, in fact, be compared to a : complicated gland. This analogy, though it becomes fainter in the adult structure, is still of much importance, both as regards anatomy and physiology, and must not he forgotten in considering ■the morbid conditions of the air cells. Finally, we must state that the walls and septa of the air cells contain elastic fibres, and also [though in small quantity) ordinary connective tissue. It has also : often been stated that the walls contain smooth muscular fibres, but this point is not clearly established. The anatomical structures .just described, viz., the group of air vesicles and the infundibular .passage, form a pathological as well as a physiological unity; it is, :n fact, the morbid changes of these structures that we shall con- sider in the following chapters. In those changes the epithelium, he blood-vessels, and the connective tissues of the walls may ■severally be involved. EMPHYSEMA. The term emphysema is used in several senses. First as nterlobular emphysema. This consists in effusion of air into the .interstitial or interlobular tissues of the lung, from laceration . >r rupture of the air vesicles or bronchial tubes. This usually i tries rise to a similar affection of the pleura, and may extend to t he subcutaneous tissue of the neck, thorax, and body generally. I.t is well known that a similar condition of the subcutaneous tissue nay arise from laceration of the trachea. These occurrences are lomparatively rare, and not important. Development of gas in he body from putrefaction after death is sometimes called post- mortem emphysema, a condition only mentioned to prevent its Jeing confounded with that of which we have now to speak. VESICULAR EMPHYSEMA. Dr. Baillie, though unable to suggest the means of distinguishing . nis disease before death, was one of the first to show its true nature u the dead body. It consists essentially in a dilatation of a larger * 8maller number of air vesicles, and may he produced by unv ause exerting a great strain upon them. The effect is to diminish he specific gravity of the part affected, so as to render it more i’lioyant than the healthy lung tissue in water; to cause the lung o become less crepitant on compression, giving it a doughy or