619 INFLAMMATION OF THE LIVER. country, except in persons coming from tropical climates It is common m India. The early stages of this affection are not well known. _ When suppuration has occurred an abscess will be found varying in size, sometimes involving nearly the whole of the liver ’ its inner surface either ragged cr lined by a smooth “ pyogenic ’’ membrane. The surroimding tissue may show no change "except simple congestion. This form of abscess occurs more often in the right lobe than the left. It may open into the peritoneum or pleura • or more rarely into the stomach or intestine. By opening into the bUe diiots the contents sometimes become tinged with bile. he solitary abscess of the liver is in the majority of cases con- nected with ulceration of the bowels; usually with dysenteric ulceration of the colon ; and hence its infrequency has some relation to the rarity of the severe form of tropical dysentery in this countrv. lhe abscess is generally regarded as the consequence of the ulceration; though some authorities, as Dr. Murchison, take the converse view, believing ulceration to be not a constant accom- paniment ol hepatic abscess, and when it occurs, secondary to the lb™ ini WcVOr- ,many cases on record of hepatic abscess secondary to various kinds of ulcers in the intestines ■ which seem to connect the form we are now considering with pysemic abscesses strictly so called. to Solitary abscess sometimes occurs independently of dysentery smnierir!7 has bT r.eferred t0 cold. excessive drinking of and other causes- A similar abscess may result simply from direct injury, such as, according to Dr. Wilks mav be inflicted by a fractured rib. Some cases are quite unexplained. iioif ’ a Si\ngle lai?° abs?ess ma7 be formed by the confluence of °iL°f mU, tlplen Py®mic abscesses, so that the dis- fanction between the smgle and multiple abscesses may disappear ■ oriinT6 a,Lth°r8’ aS Dr‘ Moxon> intend that both Tsses onlv in binhG Same T7’tbe 1^'ge’ °r tropical abscesses, differing trniv l l ng more cbl'onic. But the descriptions given of the tropmal abscess represent a disease very different from pymmia. l)vL a £i CS °f\he L*ver' These are chiefly the result of The nvm’mi!hr °°casi°?al ?.au.ses be pointed out hereafter. 7 be e’tber braited to the parts connected with the arm or general. In the former case some morbid material be absorbed by one of the veins tributary to the portal bmnrL some diseased part, thus carried into the Lses efftl hiSVein W1thin the liver. The transport is in many often by “assfs derived from softening thrombi, but verv S °ftbls kmd can be discovered. In cases of gener J ?orbld material must be conveyed through the caS0 fhSn h. lfc, bec°mes arrested in the portal capillaries. In&either Kanmariea W mechanical, due to the obstruction morbfd iSerb 8peClflC’ dU6 t0 ° mflaminS properties of the * Murchison, “ Trans. Path. Soe.,» vol.viii.p. 237; Bristowe, Ibid., vol.ix.pp. 241,273.