TLEUEITIS. 526 With regard to chronic pleurisy, Dr. West remarks, “ that while it is a very rare occurrence as a purely idiopathic affection in eaily life, it is one of the most common complications of the dropsy which often succeeds to scarlatina.’ _ We do not generally find extensive pleurisy affecting both sides at the same time, while there is a marked difference in regard to the tendency of either pleura to inflammatory attacks; the left side presenting a much greater proclivity than the right. Hasse certainly states that the two sides are equally prone, but considers the fatality to be greater when the left side is attacked, than when the inflammation affects the right. The thirty-five fatal cases which he observed, were distributed in the following manner:— nine were double pleurisies, and in five out of the nine, the affect tion was trifling on one side; in the remaining twenty-six, the left : side was the seat sixteen times, the right ten times. He also quotes s Mohr’s experience, who found that of fifty-six cases, the left side ■ was the seat thirty-seven times, the right nineteen times. Doctors Hamilton Eoe, Hughes, and Copland, are also of opinion that the disease exhibits a much greater frequency on the left than on the opposite side of the thorax. It appears from the observa- - tions of Messrs. Rilliet and Barthez that the converse is the pre- - vailing character of infantile pleuritis, and that in children the > rio-ht side is more liable to the idiopathic affection than the felt. Pleurisy in Phthisis.—There is no affection with which j tubercular phthisis is so commonly associated as adheaons between the pleural surfaces, and the relation the two beari to one another appears to be in the ratio of the extent of the former. Hence the pleurisy has both a chronic and a more local character, and must be set down to th® s®C°r“|uj irritation arising after the deposit has been effected. - . 1 thickenin- assumes a cartilagmoid consistency, and the union becomes so intimate, that considerable force is often reclu”^ f remove the lungs, and it is scarcely effected without lacerahon of their tissue. The intercurrent pleurisy accompanying tii^rcnl disease of the lungs, is the source of those flying pains which, trom time Sto°time, attack phthisical subjects. The frequency of h occurrence is best illustrated by the statement of Loms that mo ^ hundred and twelve phthisical subjects, he> found.but° lungs were perfectly free, m every point of then surface i cases only he found the right pleura wholly unattacked, a d seven the left; in these cases there were either no non-adherent lung, or they were very small, ^tation, p ing from other parts, may equally give rise to wrtol npJfepition thus we find it limited to the diaphragmatic surface, m^i with a diseased liver, spleen, or peritoneum. 1 ' . 0f the mediastinal portion may be excited by morbid ai11 , _ed “earfor bronoMal glaei; .limited connecting the interlobar fissures, especially m connect pneumonia and tubercular irritation.