/bO ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BEOAD LIGAMENTS. stitution. These morbid contents are sometimes poured into the uterus, probably in consequence of the occlusion only having been effected by inspissated mucus; a less favourable issue is rupture of the sac, and effusion of its contents into the abdominal cavity. Morbid fluids can also enter the peritoneum by the apertures of the fimbriated extremity. This occurs in acute inflammation, both puerperal and non-puerperal, producing peritonitis. It should be remembered that uterine injections, or air, may by this means find their way into the peritoneum. In some cases of dilatation the uterine orifice of the tube is dis- tinctly unclosed, and obstruction appears to be caused, as in intestinal obstructions, by flexion. Hcemorrhage into the tubes is occasionally seen, perhaps coming from the ovary. It has usually undergone degenerative changes when observed. This may be one of the causes of dilatation. Tubercle of the Fallopian tubes is much more common than that of the ovary, and is sometimes a primary disease. We find the tubes filled with white or yellowish jmsty matter, proceeding from degenerative catarrhal inflammation of the mucous surface. The walls are thickened and indurated, the canal sometimes irregularly dilated and tortuous. Tubercles may be seen, it is said, on the mucous surface. In such cases as have come under our notice, we have found them in the walls or on the peritoneal surface, where they may be the starting point of tubercular peritonitis. This con- dition may be combined with a similar disease of the uterus, or occur independently. The lymphatic glands -generally become affected. Small cysts frequently form on the fimbriated extremities of the tubes. They have thin walls, and are not usually so large as a pea. A congenital structure, the so-called Hydatid of Morgagni must not be confounded with this. It is a cyst as large as a pea or a bean, attached by a pedicle, one or two inches long, or more, to the fimbriated extremity of the tube. It is said to occur in about one body in four, and is explained as the remnant of Muller’s duct, out of which the Falloprian tube is formed. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BROAD LIGAMENTS. The only anomaly which requires notice here is the occasional development of cysts from the body called the parovarium, or organ of Kosenmuller, a mass of tubular structure which lies near the ovary, between the layers of broad ligament, and is, in development, a relic of the foetal kidney. Minute cysts are not very uncommon in this situation; but occasionally some are formed, which in their size rival ovarian cysts, and may, without care, be confouuded with them. Some fibrous tumours of the broad ligament, which have been attributed to the ovary, are believed to originate in this body. Cysts may occur on the broad ligament, unconnected with the parovarium.