ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 183 SCALE OF MALIGNANCY. Malignant. Encephaloid. Scirrhus. Round-celled or Medullary Sarcoma. Colloid Cancer. Epithelioma. Osteoid. Spindle-celled Sarcoma (Recurrent Fibroid). Glioma. Myeloid Sarcoma. Myxoma. Enchondroma. Fibroma. Simple Histioid Tumours generally. Innocent. Vessels and Nerves of Cancer.—The vessels of cancer for the most part, we believe, are of the ordinary kind, derived from those of the natural tissues by the process of extension or growth: they have generally very thin and simple walls, so as to resemble very large capillaries rather than arteries and veins. Lymphatic vessels have been traced in cancerous tumours, accompanying the blood vessels. They doubtless communicate with the lymphatic vessels of the part affected. No new formation of nerves appears to take place, but the nervous filaments traversing or distributed to the part which is the seat of the cancerous growth, are often involved in the mass, and becoming injuriously pressed on, or otherwise injured, occasion the most frightful pains. There is scarce any- thing accurately determined respecting the chemical composition of cancer. Encephaloid is said to consist chiefly, if not entirely, of albuminous matter; scirrhus to contain gelatine also, while colloid jelly seems to be a principle quite sui generis. Possibly there may be some special cancerous virus, as there is a variolous , Rod syphilitic, but as yet chemistry knows nothing of it, and we only infer its existence from the effects it produces. Origin of Cancerous Growths.—The origin of cancer is a subject of the deepest interest, but the first and most important step of the process is entirely concealed from us. Mr. Simon views a cancer as “ substantially a new and excretory organ,” a growth which arises for the purpose of eliminating from the system aD unhealthy matter which is generated within it. Such a function, however, is surely not fulfilled by all instances, even of encephaloid, and still less of the other species. It rather seems that we should recognize in cancer a grave alteration of the normal formative powers; those real, but occult influences which determine that—here bone] and there muscle, and thero nerve shall bo produced. Wo know