818 SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOIXTS. No doubt can exist of the propriety of giving a distinctive name to this affection, although its course does not seem to be exactly similar to that of scrofulous disease of other parts. ^ The articular extremities of the bones are the primary seat of mischief, they become preternaturally vascular and much softened, so that they are easily cut with a knife, whiie “ a transparent and after- wards a yellow cheesy substance is produced in their cancelli.'’ Prom the observation above mentioned, we are inclined to think that granular cells, formed in the primary exudation within the cancelli, play some part in the absorption and removal of the earthy salts of the bone. As the disease of the bone advances, ulceration of the cartilage commences on its attached surface, in the manner described in the extract we have given from Mr. Goodsir’s paper. Before, however, this can take place to any great extent, the articular lamina, so well investigated by Mr. Birkett, must be removed. This consists of a thin, lamina of dense bone, containing large lacunte, with scarce any canaliculi, which bounds and closes in the cancelli on the surface encrusted by the cartilage. Until this is removed no vessels can shoot into the nipple-shaped processes of false mem- brane which dip into the cartilage. The osseous tissue gradually wastes and is absorbed, it undergoes a true caries ; sometimes also a part dies, and may exfoliate. In cases of this kind it is not at all unfrequent to find several joints affected with the same morbid change in various stages. As the whole of the articulating surface is generally involved in the disease, the attachment of the cartilage becomes loosened at all points, aud it is, therefore, even at an early period much more easily detached from the bone than is natural. Sometimes, as Sir B. Brodie mentions, in the advanced steps of the disease, nearly the whole of the cartilage is found forming an exfoliation instead of being ulcerated. ‘ ‘ As the caries of the bones advances, inflammation takes place of the cellular membrane external to the joint. Serum and afterwards coagulated lympb is effused; and hence arises a pulpy and elastic swelling in tne early, and an cedematous swelling in the advanced stage ol tne disease, which is one form of white swelling. Abscess having formed in the joint, it makes its way by ulceration through the ligaments and the synovial membrane, and afterwards bursts externally, having caused the formation of numerous an ci cuitous sinuses iu the neighbouring soft parts. hhis 'ea the joint especially affects children ; it is the essence of the mur , coxarius which is so very common among the otispring o poorer classes. It rarely occurs after the age of flinty. . disease is not regarded by all pathologists as originating 111 bone ; some regard it as primarily a disease of the synovia - brane. For instance, Billroth describes the affection as o