488 GANGEENE. The most marked form which septic disease assumes in the lungs is presented in cases of gangrene; it is, as ■ Sir Thomas Watson observes, very seldom the result of acute inflammation, and is almost as uncommon as the formation of true abscess. Its cause is not always clear. Dr. Stokes has published some cases, in all of which the patients had been habitual drunkards; the abuse of spirituous liquors does not, however, seem to exert a uniform influence in its production, for, in chronic alcoholism, as described by Dr. Huss,* this lesion has not been met with. It is also remark- able that ergotism, which has a peculiar tendency to induce super- ficial gangrene, is not accompanied by pulmonary sphacelus. 'The same applies to the analogous disease spedalskhed,f or the Nor- wegian leprosy. It presents two forms, the diffuse and the circumscribed. In the former, the lung tissue that is involved is broken up into shreds, which hang into a cavity filled with a foetid pubila- ginous, discoloured sanies, and through which the bronchi and vessels may yet be traced entire. The gangrenous portion presents a variety of hues, in the different shades of green, brown, and black. The surrounding parenchyma is infiltrated with ill-condi- tioned pus. An entire lobe, or even the greater portion of one lung, is found to be in this condition, though the upper lobe appears to be m.ost prone to the affection. It appears some- times to result from extension of circumscribed gangrene; but sometimes its origin is quite obscure. In circumscribed gangrene, which is more frequent than the former, we find one or more patches, varying in size and of irregular form, scattered through the lungs. There is much less tendency to involve the adjacent parts, and the course of the affection is more chronic than the former. Laennec describes the colour of the mortified portion as black with a greenish tinge—the texture as moister and more com- pact than that of the lung, and its aspect closely corresponding to an eschar, produced upon the cutaneous surface by nitrate of silver. The neighbouring pulmonary tissue is in a state of inflammatory congestion; and, after the sphacelated spot has become detached, a false membrane, of a greyish, dirty yellow colour is formed, which secretes an ill-conditioned pus. At times the membrane is formed even before the entire separation has been effected. If the gangrene involves the pleura, rupture and discharge into the pleural sac may ensue, or otherwise the bronchi may be the chan- nels by which the evacuation is effected. Circumscribed gangrene appears to be always dependent upon obstruction of the arterial branches supplying the part; to be, in * See Dr. Huss's work on the subject: “ Alcoliolismus Chronicus,” &c. Stockholm, * + |)r. DanicUsen and Boeckh, “ Om Spedalskhed,” Ac. Christiania, 1S47.