330 degenerations of the substance of toe heart. upon as an indication that the heart is not degenerated. The left ventricle and the column* carneae are most liable to be thus diseased, next in order the right ventricle and rmht aunclo, whi e the left auricle is least frequently involved. Dr. Quam, ^ J we are indebted for a clear resume of the whole subject of fattj degeneration of the heart, has found that in twenty-two in which the seat of the disease was expressed, the two ventricles were affected in ten, the left alone in eight, and the right alone in four. Rokitansky describes three forms of fatty degeneration of the heart; the first two are varieties of fat-deposit upon and within the heart, external to the muscular fibre to which we have alluded above' and to which, with Dr. Quam, we would apply the term fatty growth, while the term fatty degeneration should be confined to that change in the muscular fibre which we have just described and which constitutes Rokitansky’s third form The deposit and the degeneration may coincide, but there is no definite relation be- tween the occurrence of the two. The frequency with which fatty degeneration of the heart occurs among the patients that present themselves m a London hospital mav be inferred from the circumstance that Dr. Ogle has met with it in 100 out of 143 post-mortems in which he had noted the micro- «sopic appearances of the organ, a cixcumstance sjffljwjttomj the attention of nosologists upon the heart m order to with more accuracy than we at present can bi ng to b®a^^_ degeneration. Ibis concuuon ui, muscular substance to the same cause as the d™“„erat;Te process the frequent coincidence Canton ’ This coincidence is. heart was first pointed out bj i • ‘ f positive however, not sufficiently constant to of conclusion as to the condition o^^^^^VconLcted with the cornea. Fatty degeneration is , ■ ^ que to some a special diathesis, as scrofula or syphilis, and may be an special poison, as phosphorus. among the effects of Syncope and angina pectoris during life are among » “ Medico-Cliir. Trans.,” vol. xxxiii. p. 121.