644 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE BILIARY PASSAGES. 1 adhesion, and their contents then undergoing certain changes. Thus the muco-purulent matter may be converted into a clear glairy fluid, more or less tinged with bile; we have recently observed a case of this kind, and though we were some time in doubt as to the nature of the cyst, which was found in a healthy liver, we were soon convinced by detecting particles of columnar epithelium in . the matter lining its surface; besides the fluid in this case, there were several small whitish masses attached to the inner surface, consisting of a semi-homogeneous, semi-granulous, soft substance, containing imperfect celloid forms. We think it is too much to assume that all such tumours as contain a glairy fluid have originated in catarrhal inflammation; probably the morbid cyst- producing action is in many cases of a more chronic kind, and the fluid is glairy from the first. In a boy who died with pneumonia supervening on a tuberculized state of the lungs, we found the liver, with the exception of marginal oily accumulation in the lobules aud a somewhat atrophied condition of the cells, apparently healthy, except that here and there throughout its substance there were seen green coloured spots of the size of a pin’s head. These seemed to exist about the termination of the minuter portal canals, and were, doubtless, connected with the terminal ducts ; they con- sisted of yellow and orange or reddish pigment colouring matter, heaped up together and forming a mass which encroached on the parenchyma ; in one of them columnar epithelial particles were seen proving that a duct was involved in it. The cells contained no yellow matter, so that it was evident that these green masses had been produced by a morbid action set up m the minute ducts. Ulceration of the gall-bladder is not unfrequent; it may occur as a consequence of suppurative inflammation, or be set up in an oro-an which has been the seat of chronic disease, or occur m the course of remittent or typhoid fever, or be produced by the irri- tation of calculi, and probably also by that of unhealthy and acrid bile. The ulcers are sometimes small and numerous, sometimes there is but one large one : they are sometimes attended with sloughing of the coats, and sometimes go on to perforate the vail completely. When this happens the bile, if the gall-bladder con- tain any, escapes into the cavity of the peritoneum and rapidly excites fatal inflammation. If from long closure of the cystic duct, the gall-bladder contains no bile, but only a mucous or serous fluid& this does not escape so rapidly, and the inflammation is more limited to the neighbourhood of the liver. When meemtion is excited by the presence of gall-stones, it usually happens the bladder becomes adherent to some adjacent part, common y colon or duodenum, and, as the process advances, a communication is established between the two viscera, by means of which tiie calculus escapes into the bowel and may be discharged \\ e have, however seen a case in which fatal obstruction o the lutest ne= r.° OCCasioned by a gall-stone, which had probably escaped oy a fistulous opening from the gall-bladder. We do not know muc i