DISEASE OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 819 arthritis,” and defines it as essentially depending upon excessive growth of the synovial membrane and its fringes. In early stages the lateral portions are found especially altered; the fringes swollen and thick; the whole membrane soft and succulent. Gradually these changes become more marked, the synovial mem- brane thicker, more oedematous, and red, while the fringes become masses resembling spongy granulations. These begin to grow over the cartilage from the sides, insinuating themselves between the articular surfaces, which they gradually cover completely. The red granulation mass thus formed adheres to the cartilaginous surface here and there by vascular processes, which dip down into the cartilage (much as described by Goodsir.) By the gradual extension and penetration of these the cartilage is destroyed, and the granulating mass comes in contact with the bone. In the meantime the cartilage-cells undergo active proliferation, and the intercellular substance becomes absorbed. The amount of suppu- ration varies much, and the subsequent destruction of the joint and the ends of the bones, is attributed by Billroth chiefly to the growth of the granulation tissue. Bindfleisch regards the disease as essentially one of the articular ends of the bones ; caries fungosa, as he calls it, which attacks and destroys the cartilage beneath, as the synovial outgrowth does from aboye. Corml and Banvier, on the other hand, contend that the granu- lation-tissue and fungoid growth are merely secondary inflam- mations, not peculiar to this disease, the essential feature of which they believe to be fatty degeneration of the cartilage. The latter constitutes the first stage of the disease; in the second stage appear the fungous granulations. TUBERCULAR DISEASE. MM. Corml and Banvier describe a strictly tubercular disease ot the synovial membranes, in which they are thickened, soft, and contain numerous miliary tubercular granulations. The cartilages are affected as m the early stage of scrofulous disease; but the bones are Dot altered. This type of disease is probably rare. Its symptoms and history are hardly known. DISEASE OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. The joints of the vertebrae are very liable to be affected in nearly :the same way as other articulations of more perfect development ;SO that a brief account of their morbid states will properly follow ihere. The cancellous tissuo may be the seat of the scrofulous