MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. 813 make their way inward towards the cavity of the joint, in which at last they become free by the dissolution of the pedicle. These are usually true cartilages, and sometimes contain bone, in which may be seen Haversian canals, a clear proof of its having been at one time vascular. Others are formed by a condensation of fibrinous coagula; “ they are distinguished,” Eokitansky says, “by their uniform smoothness throughout, by a delicate albuminous invest- ing membrane, and frequently by their manifest arrangement in concentric laminae.” These never contain any of the characteristic cells of cartilage, and appear to consist solely of compressed fibril- lating exudation. Occasionally they are lodged in ulcerated cavi- ties of the normal cartilage, which might give rise to the idea that they were truly fragments of this tissue, cut out as it were by the process of ulceration. We do not believe, however, that this ever happens. It has also been supposed that fragments of cartilage chipped off may become loose bodies, and the possibility of tins occurience is shown by a case in which Mr. Simon removed from the knee-joint a piece of cartilage thus broken off (“ Trans. Path. 600., vol. xv. p. 206), but this cannot account for many cases. Cal- careous matter is sometimes deposited in the substance of these loose cartilages, and Mr. Rainey describes true bone lacume similar to those seen in the thin plates of the ethmoid, as existing in their interior. ° Inflammation of the ligaments, both acute and chronic, is said to occur, but Wickham states that, according to his experience, “ the ligaments are the last of all the different parts diseased, and that it is very common to find the ligaments perfect, even when every other texture is either altered or destroyed.” Prom Mr. Keys account it seems that inflamed ligaments become thickened and more pulpy than natural. The areolar tissue which penetrates among their fibres becomes highly vascular, and is probably con- cerned m producing the softening and ulceration of their substance winch sometimes takes place. . G°uty deposit is often found in the ligaments, with or without similar deposit m the cartilages. Relaxation of the ligaments may be the result of long-continued chronic inflammation, or of simple disuse of the limb. In the latter case it has been known to proceed to such an extent as to allow the head of the femur to slip out of the acetabulum. Fre- quent and heavy strains may produce a similar effect; Mr Wick- • ham mentions a case in which the leg was so much bent outward at i the knee as to be at nearly right angles with the thigh. MORBID CONDITIONS OF CARTILAGE. It is somewhat doubtful whether a true hypertrophy of cartilage •ever takes place; but an apparent hypertrophy is not unfreouontfv i observed. I ho thickness may be increased to treble of that which