165 SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. tumours) malignancy is either quite unknown or exceedingly rare. The tumours which are par excellence malignant are those commonly called cancers, or carcinomatous tumours. We include under this head (1) encephaloid cancer ; (2) scirrhus; (3) colloid cancer ; and, (4) epithelioma; meaning by these names particular kinds of structure, anatomically definable. About these structures it may he said generally that they are almost sure to exhibit, either early or late in their course, the characters we have called malignant. There is a second group of tumours with respect to which we cannot make so absolute a proposition. They are yery likely to be malignantj but, on the other hand, it is quite possible that they may remain confined to one spot, or be completely cured by removal. (Such tumours have been called semi-maliunant, a term very objectionable, if taken to imply that they possess a peculiar property m a modified degree, but admissible, if meaning that they are less likely to be malignant than those tumours included in our first group). These may be called sarcomata, or sarcomatous tumours, and include the following forms (1) Spindle-celled sar- coma, or recurrent fibroid tumour; (2) round-celled, or medullary sarcoma; (3) myeloid tumour ; with other less important forms, these two groups include all the forms of tumour in which malignant properties are common. The rare instances in which the history ot the simple histioid tumours resembles that of malignant growths, have been sufficiently considered, when speaking of those tumours. Since the sarcomatous tumours form a transition from innocent ffimours to true cancers, it will be convenient to consider thorn SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. Sarcomatous tumours constitute a group, which it must be allowed somewhat ill defined. The fibrous group on the one hand, and the carcinomatous on the other, are the territories which border on the debatabie land of sarcoma. The term may nevertheless very emently be retained as a collective expression for several definfl °f tVm?Urf’ each of which’ for itsolf> may be pretty clearly 'and w}ucl) aSren ln their history and mode of development ‘, as 011 certain particulars of minute structure. We shall thi? *>“? .?? *"»»• tax-™ as fibro-plftetic, re- W i h and myelold tumours, with somo forms of what were Wly called medullary sarcoma and others to be hereSer cbu.tmn'°n °f Sarcoma may bo defined as a growth ffirn ofTP°S?d ° 'tl98Ue resembling the immature or embiyonic orm of connective tissue. Such tissue is distinguished from (1„H or mature forms especially by the predominance of cell so much 80 that lt is a general, if not an absolute rule for fibre” bone.