DEGENERATIONS OF THE LIVER. 627 necessary alteration; it is sometimes unusually pale, but often has the dark green tint of ordinary bile. The minute ducts are tolerably natural, and doubtless continue to discharge their part of the bile-secreting process. A fatty condition may coexist with a considerable degree of cirrhosis. The appearance of a section un- Tig. 142. der the microscope is then very i of the lobules, and is always, (a) Empty envelope of an hepatic cell 'iwe think, most advanced there; from wMch the oil has escaped. Ssometimes, however, it may com- muc&ail^ W Hepatic cells containing rmence in the centres of the 1 lobules. This somewhat rare condition of central fatty engorge- :ment has been explained by rapid removal of fat from the muter portions of the lobules. The pal© condition of the liver adepends on the enlarged size of the cells, which are pressed closer together, and thus constrict the capacious capillaries and aallow less blood to be contained within them. There is, how- eever, no obstruction to the flow of blood, such as we have seen in c.cirrhosis; the soft state of the oil-laden parenchyma sufficientlv accounts for this. We think it most probable that fatty degene- rration does not consist merely in the impletion of the cells with oil in their containing a greater quantity of this matter than they naturally would, but that there is an actual impairment of their evelopment and nutrition, of their active power of formation and secretion, so that the tissue really undergoes a kind of decay. In support of this view,. we may mention that we have scarcely ever lound sugar present in the parenchyma of a thoroughly fatty liver A?1® almost always be detected in livers that aro not so ■inectea; this is certainly a remarkable fact. * Causes of Fatty Degeneration.—The proximate cause of the pro- ' uctl°n ofWatty liver is, we believe, the existence of an undue quantity of oily matter in the blood, in proportion to the assimila- tive power. In cases of disease it is also very probable that the by more transparent spaces of i fibroid tissue. remarkable; the lobules appear . as opaque islets separated more ' or less widely from each other, O a The fatty liver is usually much ( enlarged; in fact, no cause pro- duces such enlargement except i cancer. The fatty change is t usually confined to the margins