CHAPTER XXIY. ANEURISM. Aneurism,* or a dilatation of an artery, is connected with two lesions, according to which, from the days of Scarpa and John Pell, downwards, two classes of aneurismatic disease have been adopted by most writers—true and false aneurism,—though we shall find grounds for assuming that spontaneous aneurism is in all instances traceable to one ultimate cause—a morbid state of the arterial coats, which may produce accidental varieties in the arterial tumour. The definition of true and false aneurism, ordi- narily accepted, is that, in the former we have to deal with a dilatation, partial or entire, of a certain extent of a,n artery, with- out laceration of any of its coats; while in the latter, the dilatation is accompanied by the laceration of one or more of the coats. The precisely opposite definition was, however, given by Scarpa (following Sennertus), who called a sac a true aneurism which was deficient in one or more of the coats; while if the wall was perfect, like that of the artery containing all three coats, he called it a false aneurism. The terms true and false applied to aneurisms have, therefore, no fixed meaning, and it is better not to use them. Varieties of Aneurism.—We recognize the following forms of aneurism:—(1) Diffuse, produced by a general dilatation of the whole vessel uniformly in every direction, and over a considerable length, according to the amount of dilatation ; this may produce a cylindrical or a fusiform aneurism. (2) Circumscript or Saccular aneurism, in which the whole circumference of the artery is not involved, but protrusion of part of it takes place, and a sac is formed on one side of the vessel, connected with it by an opening more or less patulous, which may be reduced to a mere pedicle. It is to the latter that Mr. Hodgson and some other writers attempted to confine the term aneurism. (3) Dissecting aneurism, in which, by rupture of the inner coat, the blood finds its way between the middle and outer, or among the layers of the middle coat. A somewhat similar condition is seen in the cerebral • From uvevpvvio, I dilute; aievpvafxu, a dilatation.