847 RUACHITIS, OR RICKETS. mineral matter, while the bones of healthy children should contain 37 per cent. (Jenner). (3) Thickening of the fiat bones is due, precisely as in the swelling of the ends of long hones, to hypertrophy of the medul- lary pulp, and expansion of the cancellous tissue. The substance of the bone seems mainly to consist of diploe (Aitken). In the cranial bones it makes the sutures appear like deep furrows. It has been supposed that this diminishes the capacity of the cranium. The fontanelles are always late in closing’. A peculiar form of disease of the cranium has been described by Elsasser,* as occurring in rhachitis, and characterized by softening, thinning, and perforation of the occiput. The bone is atrophied, soft and porous; and numerous openings are observed along the lamb- doidal suture, and in the body of the bone, with the exception of the occipital protuberance. The perforations may amount to as many as thirty ; and, in place of bone, they are filled up only by the dura mater and pericranium, which are adherent to one another. The affection commonly manifests itself between the third and sixth month of infant life; the child exhibiting much restlessness, and a fear of all contact with the occiput. (4) The deformities produced by rickets are very important. They may be temporary or permanent. Of the long bones, those of the lower limb are most conspicuously affected. The femur is often curved, usually with its convexity outwards, sometimes the contrary; sometimes the bone curves forward with the con- vexity in front. The beginning of this is seen sometimes before a child walks, and is attributed to the weight of the legs and feet. It increases if the weight of the body is carried on a limb not yet rigid. The curve of the tibia is also usually convex outwards, an exaggeration of its normal curve. When with these curvatures, there is change of direction at the softened epiphysial junction, the whole limb may be curved, forming bandy legs. Sometimes the opposite condition, knock-knee, is seen. Similar curvatures of the bones of the arm are less easy to explain ; they are thought to be partly produced by the child supporting its body on its hands in crawling. The attachment of muscles is also, in some cases, the explanation. Thus Sir W. Jenner points out that the humerus is often bent at an angle just at the insertion of the deltoid, simply from the weight of the forearm and hand, when the limb is raised by that muscle. Deformity of the thorax is caused by falling in of the ribs alon°- a curved line or furrow, just outside the hue of union of rib and cartilage. It is formed by the drawing in of the ribs in inspira- tion, at the point where they are weakest. It has the effect of carrying the sternum forward, and producing “ pigeon breast ” The lower ribs are prevented from collapsing by the resistance of ZUI Phy8iol°eie und Tatliologieder ersten