602 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE INTESTINE. Fatty tumours, sessile or pediculated, occur in the intestinal canal; they originate in the submucous tissue, where fat vesicles always exist, and grow inwards, Serous and Jibro-serrous cysts aie met with but very rarely between the intestinal coats. Fibroid nodules, not exceeding the magnitude of a pea, are sometimes found in the submucous tissue. In a case recorded by Dr. Duck- worth, four fibrous tumours, from the size of a bean to that of a walnut, were found in a dilated portion of the ileum. ( Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xvii. p. 125.) Calcareous concretions, formed by the deposition’of earthy matter in new-formed fibroid tissue, in obsolete tubercle, or desiccated pus, or fibrinous exudation, occur very rarely. Eokitansky describes erectile growths to exist in the intes- tinal canal, either in the form of sessile tumours or pediculated polypi. We are not sure whether he would include under thus head instances of fibrous polypi, such as two recorded by Mr. P. Hewett, in the Report of the Pathological Society for 1846-4/, which, though of marked fibrous structure, were livid in appear- ance, and pretty plentifully supplied with blood-vessels. I he presence of these polypi may give rise to invagination and its consequences. . , Cancer not uncommonly attacks the intestinal canal; it is far more frequent in the large than in the small intestines; out of 3to fatal cases from this cause, in 221 the disease was located m the rectum. It is almost always primary, but sometimes arises by extension from neighbouring organs; and very rarely secondary a-rowths occur in the mucous membrane, or in the Peyer s glands. Dr Walshe seems to consider the small intestines to be more frequently affected than Rokitansky does; the latter says that “ the colon is almost exclusively the seat of cancerous degeneia- tion ” while “ the small intestine is scarcely ever the primary seat of cancer, except in the case of acute and extensive encephatod disease.” In the Report of the Pathological Society for 184,-48, there is recorded one case of cancer (colloid) of the small interlines and mesentery, and four of the ccecum, colon, and rectum, fhe duodenum and upper part of the jejunum are the parts of the small intestine most frequently affected, the rectum and sigm flexure those of the large which most frequently suffer. Wr. Curling has met with an instance of epithelial cancer in the coat- of the intestine. When the disease has its seat m the redturn, it most usually occurs at from two to three inches above the anu according to Dr. Walshe, and tends to spread upwards rather than d°Cancer^of the intestines appears to occur in the same formss aa m the stomach, viz., scirrhus, medullary, colloid, cylinder-celled epi thelioma; and in the rectum, flat-celled epithelioma. 1 e ca described’ as medullary commence in the submucous tissu ,