641 PARASITES IN' THE LITER. remain. These scars are themselves very characteristic, and a puckered depression on the surface of the liver, especially if under- neath it is found a small mass of fibrous or cheesy matter, may be regarded as almost certainly syphilitic. The organ may, if these scars are numerous, assume a peculiar lobate appearance, like the compound livers of some of the lower animals. More rarely calcareous metamorphosis of the degenerated tissue occurs. Tubercle rarely occurs in the liver, except in cases of acute general tuberculosis. In this disease miliary tubercles are occa- sionally seen scattered through the gland, and more frequently still the microscope reveals minute tubercles, not visible to the naked eye. They are collections of small round cells, but are dis- tinguished from simple interstitial proliferation by their definite form, and by the central degeneration. Also in cases of tubercular disease in children, not precisely acute, we sometimes find evidence of tubercular disease in cheesy or calcareous nodules rarely larger than a pea, often bile stained, and asserted by some authorities to be specially connected with the bile ducts. The tubercle seldom, if ever, proceeds to an extreme degeneration or softening, so as to produce anything like an hepatic vomica. PARASITES IN THE LIVER. Hydatid,, or echinococcus cysts are of frequent occurrence in the liver, more so in this than in any other organ. Sometimes they . are single, sometimes there are several separate cysts. They often ■ attain a considerable size. Rokitansky mentions one in the Vienna Museum of a foot in diameter, and we have very recently examined one of an oval form, whose long diameter measured six inches. Their usual site is the right lobe, and the largest are generally found ! here ; but the one just mentioned was situated at the extremity of : the left, and had grown in, and far beyond, the left lateral ligament. . As their size increases they rise to the surface of the liver, and • sometimes excite inflammation of the serous membrane, by which adhesions are formed connecting them with the parts adjacent. The prominent part is, of course, that where least resistance is offered to the pressure of the fluid within, and its wall may hence atrophy and give way, or be destroyed in the course of suppurative inflammation, and the contents thus be effused into some neigh- ■ homing cavity. The cysts have been known to burst into the : peritoneal sac, into that of the right pleura, or into the bronchi of ' the corresponding lung, into the duodenum or transverse colon, ■ and in some rare instances, into a large blood-vessel or branch of ' the hepatic duct. When the tumour, in its progress, causes ulcer- ation of one of the smaller ducts, which is not uncommon, bile makes its way into the cavity, mingles with and tinges its contents, • and very often excites suppurative inflammation of the walls of the sac. This seems to be the reason that hydatid tumours in the liver T T