FORMS OF PHTHISIS. 501 followed in its distribution the channels of respiration, but rather those of circulation, sanguineous or lymphatic. In such cases the “tubercles” will appear scattered through the lung without any reference to the bronchi or the anatomical divisions of the lung dependent upon them. Their distribution will then appear quite irregular, though minute examination may show that a certain number of the granulations are formed around blood-vessels in other perivascular lymphatic channels ; while there may be other evidence of the participation of the lymphatics, such as the pre- sence of tubercles in the pleurae, which are known to contain very numerous lymphatic channels leading from the lung. This consti- tutes the infective form of phthisis, and agrees in its mode of distribution with acute miliary tuberculosis formerly spoken of, being, in fact, essentially the same disease become chronic. These two extreme types of disease are sufficiently contrasted when seen absolutely unmixed, but this very rarely happens; almost all cases presenting some features of both morbid processes. The catarrhal form becomes in fact complicated with tubercles, produced, as is thought, by local infection; and the tubercle in the infective form never fails to produce secondary inflammation round it. Hence, in a chronic disease, whichever may have been its mode of origin, the appearances will be ultimately the same, and the catarrhal and infective phthisis will then be not only indistinguishable but identical. We find in both small-celled growth (what is usually meant by tubercle) in the walls of the alveoli and interstitial fassue, while in the alveoli and bronchial tubes are seen masses of larger cells, fibrin, and other so-called inflammatory products; noi is there anything to tell us which of these represents the i original disease. In all chronic forms of phthisis there is some fibrous induration or production of fibroid tissue, but this is sometimes the pre- ponderating, or even the exclusive change, constituting the disease called fibroid phthisis. FORMS OF PHTHISIS. We recognize the following forms of the disease commonlv described as phthisis of the lung:— 1. Catarrhal Phthisis or Caseous Pneumonia. 2. Mixed Phthisis. 3. Tubercular Phthisis. 4. Fibroid Phthisis. : The form of disease in which grey miliary tubercles are found scattered through comparatively unaltered lung-tissue is some- times represented as a form of phthisis, but since there is no actual destruction of the lung, it does not come under our definition of ,s “tsease. We have already described it as acute general tuber- cuiosis affecting the lung, and have nothing to add to that descrip-