538 ULCERATION OF THE MOUTH. and ulcers at such periods are found unusually inapt to heal, and all the experience of the juvantia and Icedentia, seems to testily that the local morbid process is extremely different from common in- flammation, and is essentially dependent upon a grave alteration ci the general system. ULCERATION OF THE MOUTH. Aphthce, Thrush, Mugud.—Aphtha: are small whity specks, some- times so closely set together that they coalesce and form patches, which may he very extensive. They separate after a time, leaving the mucous membrane beneath either simply excoriated or superficially ulcerated. After being detached they are often produced again, and this may occur several times in succession. The true nature a of this disease has been the occasion of much controversy, and there is not yet a perfect agreement on the subject. The patches - consist, there is no doubt, chiefly of clusters of the mycebum and spores of a microscopic fungus, the oidium albicans, found vary frequently in small quantities in the mouth even m health, and more abundantly in inflammatory or diphtheritic processes. It u only in the disease now under consideration that the fungus forms nearly the whole of the adventitious mass, which comams be^de only a few detached epithelial scales, beset with spores. It may thus be described as a growth of fungus upon the mucous surface. It has also been shown that it may be transferred by transplantation to the mouths of healthy children. It will not, however, AounJi unless there be some unhealthy state of the mucous me“^ane, and acidity appears to be the most important favouring condition ihe mucous surface of the mouth appears to be m new-born chfldron nlwavs acid even in health—a circumstance which accounts nr the facility with which the disease develops itself at that age; vhflej in older children, a very slight disturbance of nutation smxes^ bring about the conditions necessary for its development Thereu no doubt that the most frequent occasional cause of aphthae u to fermentation of portions of milk which remain m recesses of the mouth. It should be mentioned that the term mupuet %ap/wth' The French to the more extensive deposits of this kind. Badheaffh, indigestion, or abdominal disorders, are the precursors and attend ants°on aphthae. The whole of the buccal mucous membrane aPP - to be in a sS of asthenic inflammation, and the same conditior extends in some measure to the whole alimentaryrtra . - sometimes affected by aphthce as the result of invest!on - small circular ulcers tip and along the edges of the tongue. ourselves, and can scarce think they should be separate