558 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE STOMACH. and. pancreas, and, pushing forward the stomach (with the small curvature of which it contracts adhesion), forms a tumour in the epigastrium. Such tumours mould themselves upon these various parts and organs in so close a manner, that, after separation, the surface of the mass retains the impressions of the adjoining viscera.” The course of these growths, though rapid, is olten lor a long period unattended with pain or disturbance of the system* Primary malignant tumours ot the peritoneum are general!}, 11 not always, sarcoma. V,—abnormal conditions of the stomach. Congenital Abnormalities.— In very imperfect monstrosities, especially the acephalous, the stomach is either wanting, or very imperfectly developed. It is also absent occasionally, according to Rokitansky, in individuals otherwise normally built, and pro- vided with a well-developed intestinal tube; or it may be only indicated by a small saccular dilatation of the oesophagus. Variations in Shape and Size.— The s/iape of the stomach is some- times found remarkably altered; its cavity being partially divided into a cardiac and pyloric portion by an annular contraction, or even still further subdivided into three or four sacculi, so as to present some resemblance to the multiple stomachs of ruminants. These peculiarities of shape may either result from congenital malformation, or at Least in their minor degrees from contractions of the muscular coat or from destruction of. and subsequent cicatrization. Sometimes the stomach deviates from its usual shape, in the way of assuming greater simplicity , h is 'destitute of its cardiac cul-de-sac, and the msopliageal opening is quite at its left extremity. . . 1 The stomach is liable to great variations of size; these within certain limits are physiological, and are manifestly con plated in the peculiar convoluted disposition of its mucous ,g- j I healthy stomach, when empty, naturally contracts upon dsdf- and this to such au extent that its cavity is well nigh obht^ted. This is purely the effect of the unopposed action of its ^iscutar coat and is no evidence of disease in the viscus. It may pro- ceed’ from starvation, or from stricture of the oesophagus, traction of the cavity of the stomach m a less de fo . be produced by hypertrophy, anil cancerous ^^e °f co^; or by the cicatrization of extensive ulcers. Partial or glass” contraction is attributed to tight-lacing Dilatation of the stomach, often to a oonB^nab - ^ > of very common occurrence, and depends partly o P production of gas, and partly on loss of contractile p.ower^m its muscular fibres. In its more extreme de0r ., t |e _ rally the result of obstructive disease at the pylono ovx^ consequence of which the ingesta accumulate within the