8.33 OSTEOPHYTES. The osteophyte was first characterized by Lobstein as a bony vegetation which grows from the surface of the bone, or encircles the articulations, and offers the most varied forms. It is dis- tinguished by Forster from exostosis as being a superficial rough, lamellated, or splintery growth, extending over a considerable area, and differing in texture from the adjacent bone, and not continuous with it, but appearing rather as if cemented to it by subsequent growth. The osteophyte chiefly affects the more vascular portions of bones, as their articular ends, their rough lines, or, in the skull, the sutural cartilages; because, as Roki- tansky remarks, it is generally the product of an inflammatory process in the superficial part of the bone, and in the periosteum ; and hence it is very commonly found adjoining and surrounding not only portions which are inflamed, carious, or necrosed, but also spots of bone affected with various other diseases, which in some stage of their exist- ence have occasioned a reaction in the tissue of the bone. Thus we may refer the osteophyte, in an individual case, to simple inflamma- tion, to rheumatic or gouty inflam- mation, to syphilis, to new growths, or other causes. The diffused and fibro-reticular osteophyte of Lobstein, or what Rokitansky terms the velvety villous osteophyte, forms an osseous layer investing a bone that is otherwise healthy, sometimes removable, some- times firmly soldered to it; it com- monly presents the colour of the bone, or it may be discoloured ; by a lens it is found to present a furrowed surface, or to be composed of minute upright spicuho ; the small channels which separate the osseous ridges being in the direction of the vessels of the periosteum. This variety is a very common accompaniment of in- flammatory affections of the bone—it is the one which Rokitansky has observed to occur in the skull in females dying shortly after parturition, and which he has therefore called the puerperal osteo- Fig. 191. Osteophytes, occupying the lower end of the femur. The whole ex- terior of the bone is roughened by the growth of irregular plates and pointed processes of osseous sub- stance. A large canal, formed by ulceration, passes through the bone just above the condyles ; around the lower part of each condyle is a broad rim of new bone. From a man, aged thirty-five, with long- standing disease of the bone. (St. Bartholomew’s Museum, i. 201.)