210 ANIMAL PARASITES. more chronic conditions, to a disease resembling tuberculosis. The poison thus transferred Dr. Sanderson believes to be not chemically dissolved in the infective liquid, but to consist of particles suspended in it; and he further argues that these par- ticles are in all probability organized bodies belonging to the group Bacteria, or, as he calls them, microzymes. In support of this theory, Dr. Burdon Sanderson stales that in all infective inflammations (i.e., those produced by infective pyeemic products) in the lower animals, some of the minute organisms, called microzymes, micrococci, bacteria, &c., abound in the exudation liquids, and they are also found in the blood of animals in the state of acute infective fever. These forms he divides into two groups, of which the rod, or bacterium vibrto^jmd the dumb bell, or bacterium varicosum, may be taken as types. The latter may also be called “ still microzymes,” since they have no proper movement like the vibnones. The rods are found m the more intense and acute forms of infective disease; the dumb- bells, as well as spheroidal forms and chains of these, are found in more protracted inflammations. He further believes it will be found that forms such as these exist constantly in the exudation liquids of unhealthy inflammations in man, whether primary or secondary, &c.; and, without stating that they are the causa» of pyeemic infection, he has no doubt that by their presence in the exudation liquids thev modify, in a very decided manner, both the local changes and the constitutional symptoms. In very rare cases of pymmic diseases masses of vibriones have been found within the blood-vessels, and even attached to the valves of the heart t It may then be regarded as established that in several diseases, which have been sometimes described as septic some- times infective, organisms, resembling bacteria, blood and in the inflammatory products. It is by the greatest authority on cryptogamicbotany, Cohn t that the.e pathogenous bacteria are distinct from the accompany putrescence (Bacterium termo);—the former bem indeed destroyed by the activity of the latter. In what way t e? minute organisms are connected with the morbid changes which they accompany is yet unknown. ANIMAL PARASITES. The lowest forms of animal life known to occur pamsiticBlv are certain amteboid creatures called Grcgarum ^ch^e founds the intestines of some of the lower animals but ^ yet been observed in man. Several species of Infusoria occur in • “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol xxiii. p. ^ t Heiberg and Virchow. Virchow’s Archiv., vol. in. P- «« Micr. Soienee,” 1873, p. 176. . .r(! njotev } See “ Quarterly Joum. Micr. Science, 18.3, p. lob, piate r. ‘ Quarterly Journ.