INFLAMMATION OF TIIE URETHRA. 711 or hydroceles, or by the pressure of tumours. Enlargement of tho lateral lobes of the prostate pushes it to one side, of the middle lobe divides it iuto two passages. The length of the canal in such cases is increased. Lacerations of the urethra may be produced by mechanical injuries, by the passage of fragments of calculi, or by ulcerative destruction. They often give rise to urinary fistuho. Urethritis; Gonorrhoea.—Inflammation of the urethra of the catarrhal kind is exceedingly common, and constitutes the mis- named gonorrhoea. It commences at the anterior extremity and gradually proceeds backwards, in very severe cases extending even to the bladder. The mucous lining becomes swollen, injected, and covered with mucous or muco-purulent secretion. Its follicles and lacunse are attacked, especially the lacuna magna ; in the chronic state they are enlarged and relaxed, and pour out as well as the general surface a thin mucous, so-called gleety, discharge. During the acute stage, when the inflammation extends deeper to the fibrous structure of the corpus spongiosum, exudation of fibrine sometimes takes place in the venous sinuses, which renders them incapable of distension, and thus occasions during erection a bend- ing of the penis towards the affected part which is termed chordee. Abscess may form also in the same situation from suppuration of the exuded fibrine, or, perhaps, also from severe inflammation of the lacunae. The inflammation may spread along the con- tinuous mucous lining to other adjacent parts, to Oowper’s gland, the prostate, the vesiculae seminaies, and the testicles. This extension of tho morbid action to other parts is commonly attended by a subsidence of it in its original seat, so that it is often ques- tionable whether actual metastasis has not occurred. The gonor- rhoeal discharge passes through the same stages as that from other inflamed mucous surfaces; it is at first a thin mucous fluid, then more tenacious and muco-purulent or purulent, and as the inflam- mation subsides, it becomes again thin and pale. When a chancre coexists with gonorrhoea, “ the discharge has usually a greyish or reddish tint, or sanious aspect.” The mucous follicles in the vicinity of the meatus are liable to be specially affected both in the male and female; Dr. Oldham appears to refer to this condition under the name of follicular inflammation of the vulva, and Eleeberg, as quoted by Dr. Adams, thus speaks of their condition in the male: “The orifices of the lacunse become closed by inflammation, and in the course of two or three days pustules are formed in their places, which break and discharge a yellow pus. The orifices of the large mucous follicles are now seen dilated and surrounded by a swollen dark-red border, and they discharge a muco-purulent fluid into the urothra.” The disease sometimes assumes a chronic form. The contact of unhealthy vaginal secretion is the most common cause of urethritis, and it is important to be aware that this effect may be produced by the fluids of females who are perfectly chaste. The great