THE PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. CHAPTER XVII. THE MORBID ANATOM Y OF THE PERICARDIUM. The frequency of morbid alterations in the pericardium increases with age, a proclivity which is not marked in the same degree with ' regard to the internal lining of the heart, which is much more I Prone in childhood to take on diseased action than we should be inclined to assume a priori. Congenital affections of the pericar- . dram are very rare, and though cases of its entire absence are recorded by observers like Baiilie and Breschet, the majority of / instances that have been classed under this head have been shown o lie only apparent anomalies, owing to intimate adhesion between £Lt furfaces„of tbe sac giving rise to the semblance of the til lt- A Case °f undoubted absence of the pericardium, where Tub ,ym the same sei’°us sac with the left lung, was observed r- ^ P1 * Ealy in a man aged thirty-two.* ;,^n,othei' congenital peculiarity rarely met with is the non- attachment of the pericardium to the diaphragm, so that the infr tVeCTtltUE9 a d’stTfc Pendulous bag. Congenital openings pinto tae pleura have also been observed.f f ibrous thickenings of the pericardium, may occur so early in me as to seem congenital; we allude to the so-called milk spots wmcn are yet considered by various authors as results of inflam- mation exclusively. This is the view of Mr. Paget, while Dr otlglun ,s inclined to look upon them as the product of attrition nftl’ n8 they are alm?st universally found on the anterior surface ne heart, at the point most in contact with the anterior walls of l. i«0rV; £* » probably reconc.led by the ot- I,,'.*;1 kinds of white spots, os was well laid of mrtr ivavt;* oae’ Probably. owing to a previous attack torictbn ’ TL0thU1' t0 simPle tbickeningof' the pericardium m motion. They are cream-coloured opacities of the visceral * “Report of Pathol. Soc.,” 1851, p. 60 Douglas Po—” ’ • - t “Mfimoires Douglas Powell; “ Trans. Path’/Soo.,” 1869, vol. xx. n. de la Sociftfi d’Observation,” vol. i. p. 347, 99.