692 CYSTS IN THE KIDNEY. ment, consisting of closely apposed nuclei. No urinary principles are found in them, at least as a general rule, but oily matter is not unfrequent, and cholesterine is occasionally present. As they extend and attain a largish size, they seem to cause absorption of the cortical rather than of the medullary substance, so that on laying open a cyst, a medullary cone may be seen at the bottom of it, and forming, perhaps, a ridge in its interior. The whole kidney structure sometimes appears to be destroyed, but the organ acquires an immense apparent size. A case is recorded where the two kidneys weighed 3 lbs. lOozs. and 3 lbs. respectively. Origin of Cysts.—Respecting the origin of cysts, opinions are divided ; Drs. Johnson and Rrerichs maintain that they are pro- duced by obstruction of the tubes, and subsequent dilatation from secretion taking place within them. Mr. Simon first proposed the idea that they originate as new formations or growths within the tubes, each cyst having its origin in a germ or nucleus particle, such as under healthy conditions might have produced an epithelial cell. Rokitansky and Paget have also adopted this view, and we have ourselves been long convinced of its accuracy. It applies especially to those cases where the cyst formation is extremely abundant, but we are more inclined to believe that the few and rather large cysts which occur in kidneys not seriously diseased, are produced in the former manner. When the tuft in the interior of a Malpighian capsule is compressed and spoiled, we believe that a cyst may be developed from the capsule in the same way as from a portion of a tube. The smaller cysts contain usually either a clear fluid, or granulous, or an admixture of granulous and oily matter. The larger ones sometimes contain an endogenous cell growth. The envelope in all is well marked, formed of a distinct homogeneous membrane ; it occasionally presents concentric laminae. Oval and roundish fibrinous casts, when impacted in the medullary tubes, may simulate very nearly the aspect of cysts, especially when some epithelium is imbedded in them. [To the foregoing account, contained in the first edition of this work, we desire to add the following remarks:— It seems necessary to draw a distinction between the cysts of considerable though variable size, from a pin’s head up to one or two inches in diameter, and those which are quite microscopic and usually found scattered through atrophic kidney substance in immense numbers. In some cases larger cysts are found in kidneys otherwise quite healthy, so as to suggest the idea that they are possibly congenital structures. But in most cases these cysts are associated with contracting granular kidney, and there is great probability in the view which derives them from dilated tubes and Malpighian capsules, the outlet from which is obstructed by fibrous growth. The explanation of the microscopic cysts is more difficult, but according to the views now more generally adopted, they must be regarded as formed either out of portions of tubes shut off during the atrophic process, or out of the contents of the