SECONDARY OR PYvEMTC ABSCESSES. 4St> this lesion. Now that the nature of both affections is better under- stood, the error is less likely to arise; when we are in doubt, the history of the case, the situation of the abscess, the condition of the surrounding parts, the presence or absence of tubercular deposits in the lungs, are points that will aid us in establishing a correct opinion. It should, however, he remembered, that the distinction is, in fact, not always clear, but that abscess resulting from inflamma- tion may, if it continue to extend by a species of ulceration, con- stitute, in fact, one of the forms of phthisis. When this is not the case, healing takes place by the gradual formation of a capsule of connective tissue round the abscess and its cicatrization. The pus is either completely absorbed, or else remains incapsulated as a yellow caseous mass which may become calcified. This is, accordingly, one source of the wasted cicatricial nodules which have been erroneously regarded as always due to obsolete tuber- cular disease. Another occasional result of pulmonary abscess is gangrene; and more rarely the pus opens into the pleura, pro- ducing empyema. The form of abscess just described must be carefully distin- guished from the multiple or metastatic abscesses which occur in pyaemia, and the distinction is in general not difficult. SECONDARY OR PYYDtlC ABSCESSES. These abscesses are called secondary, because they are invariably dependent upon some antecedent suppuration or other form of inflammation at a distance from the lungs. They have also been called metastatic, from the erroneous belief that pus was absorbed and removed from one part of the body to be deposited in another. For the same reason, they have been called secondary deposits. By some writers they have been described as a form of lobular pneu- monia, and may be called simply multiple abscesses. The appearances by which we recognize these abscesses when in a mature condition are, spots of yellow pus, varying in size from a pin’s head to a walnut, generally situated near the surface of the organ and surrounded by a defined patch of deeply-congested tissue, which may present a colour approaching to black; beyond this, the parenchyma is in a healthy condition, or, at all events, in a state totally distinct from the circumscribed disease. The pleural surface over them is always inflamed. We generally find several of these abscesses in various parts of tho lungs. The pulmonary tissue of the seat of tho abscess may have entirely disappeared, or we may be yet able to squeeze out the pus, so as to show the normal structure. In an earlier stage they bear some resemblance to the haemor- rhagic blocks or infarctus already described, being uniformly dark red and engorged, and the capillaries being, as in such infarctus,