861 CANCEIt OP BONE. times found to develop in a remarkable manner, apparently simultaneously from many parts of the skeleton. Scirrhus has never been observed as a primary growth in bone. Colloid is almost unknown primarily affecting the bones. Great interest, therefore, attaches to the case reported by Dr. Moxon (“Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxii. p. 206), in which this form of cancer affected simultaneously a large number of bones. The growth was strictly alveolar,' and the alveoli contained colloid matter, with a few cells. If not called cancer, it could only receive some such name as alveolar sarcoma with colloid de- generation. Secondary cancer of the skeleton is far more common, and in this form most kinds of cancer have been found. Scirrhus is the least frequent, but distinct isolated tumours are sometimes seen. Instances are given by Sir J. Paget, in his “ Surgical Pathology.” Medullary cancer not unfrequently occurs subsequently to the same affection of the soft parts, and often in many bones at once. It may, like primary encephaloid, appear either in the form of distinct tumours or as an infiltration. Secondary colloid has rarely been observed in bone. Mr. Stanley records a case affecting the bone of a finger, and another occurring in a rib. Rokitansky relates one in which the right upper maxilla was the seat of the growth, and where the peripheral follicles of the growth were developed into large cysts. General Characters of Done Cancer.—The general mode of growth in all soft malignant tumours of bone, whether encephaloid or sarcomatous, is much the same. Separate tumours arise either centrally or peripherally. In the former case theyfi.il the medullary cavity, and expand the external shell of bone, or else infiltrate it, converting it into cancer, and proliferate beyond it. The bony shell sometimes found on the outside of such tumours is, however, of subsequent formation. Bone is often formed in the tumour, and when macerated appears as the curious structure known as spina ventosa. The original bone is perforated, or in great part destroyed. In the infiltrated form of encephaloid, the cancelli and Haversian canals are filled with a reddish, fatty-looking substance, which causes an absorption of the cancellar septa, and thus becomes one of the various morbid conditions to which a great fragility of the bones is attributable. The tissue presents the characters of medullary cancer ; it varies in vascularity ; at times, either from the large number of small arteries passing through the growth, or from the vicinity of a large artery, it puts on the character of an erectile or ancurismal tumour, and exhibits marked pulsation. It is probable that the majority of cases of aneurism of bone are tumours of this kind. The fragility which was noticed in the individual case before alluded to, is a quality often spoken of by authors as associated with cancer, without determining or assuming the existence of actual carcinomatous disorganization of the bone; it is also observed in deep-seated constitutional affec-