4G4 YESICULAll EMPHYSEMA. f “Med.-Chir. Trans.,” vol. xxiii. p. 37. The second is atrophy, in consequence of which the partitions between neighbouring air spaces give way, and larger cavities are formed by the union of two or more smaller ones. These are the “pei’nianence-securing ” causes of Jenner. Emphysema is usually a secondaiy affection, of which the ante- cedents are bronchitis, hooping-cough, and other diseases pro- ducing dyspnoea. In some cases, however, the emphysema seems to be the original complaint; in others it appears to be hei-editary, and intemperance sometimes has been assigned as a cause. For such cases, if they really exist, as well as for cases of universal emphysema of both lungs, quoted by Waters, the mechanical ex- planation is insufficient, and we must suppose some primaiy alteration in the lung tissue. In horses emphysema is a very common disease, and constitutes the vice termed “ broken wind,” which veterinary surgeons state to be chiefly due to overworking after a full meal of green meat. Veterinary surgeons have observed that it is hereditary in horses,* which tends to confirm the like remark made by Dr. Dudd, Louis, Hasse, and others,! as applied to man. Dilatation of the bronchi is a pathological condition frequently associated with vesicular emphysema, and may be attributed to the same cause. Hypertrophy of the Lung.—There is a consecutive condition of the lungs which may be mistaken for emphysema. Thus, after a long-standing disease of one lung impairing its functions and diminishing its capacity, we find its fellow taking on a vicarious action, and expanding so much as to displace adjoining viscera : a point of importance in forming diagnoses of diseased states of the thoracic contents. On opening this side of the thorax the lung may appear too large for its cavity, and induce the assumption of an emjihysematous condition. The history of the case, the examination of the lung, and the shrunken, contracted, bound- down, and atrophied condition of its fellow, will determine the real nature of the case. Whether in this instance there is an actual new foimation of pulmonary vesicles, it is difficult to ascertain; Kokitansky is of opinion that such an hypertrophy of the lxings is due to a dilatation of the air-cells, with a simultaneous augmenta- tion of their tissues ; that it does not consist in an increase in the number of the air cells, but in their dilatation, the increased thick- ness of their walls, the enlarged calibre of their walls, and in the development of their vessels. There can be no doubt theoretically that the changes that take place must tend to inci’ease the powers of aeration of one portion of the breathing apparatus; but au increased thickness in the walls of the air vesicles can scarcely facilitate oxygenation, unless it is by a reduplication of the basement mem- brane into the breathing cavity, so as to afford a larger surface mr the capillaries to ramify upon. The special circumstances under which the secondary enlargement and contraction of the lungs take * See Mr. Youatt’s work on the “ Horse: ” art. “Broken Wind.”