008 HAEMORRHOIDS. situated high up or low down, presenting generally a mucous aspect, a pale reddish hue, and a smooth or lobulated surface. A small growth of this kind, which we had the opportunity of examining had t short pedicle, was of the size of a pea rather highly vascular of lobulated aspect. It consisted entirely of Lieberkuehn folhcles, and of low folds or ridges covered with well-marked columnar epithe- lium and mingled with only a small quantity of fibroid tissue. 1 Haemorrhoids depend essentially on a dilated condition of the veins of the rectal mucous membrane, and are in some degree anal j- gous to the common varices of the legs. They are named inter- nal, or external, according as they are situated aboveor below the snhincter Although all take their origm in dilatation of the hemorrhoidal veins, yet in their subsequent progress present different appearances which we pr<d, ^uland first variety sometimes termed manscce, are described ‘ ‘ as fleshy tubercles, of a brownish or pale red colour, situate ^hhm the auus \>r descending from the rectum. They have a somewhat solid or spongy feel; and when divided they present a compact, ot porous and bloody surface. As the blood oozes from the cut surW theybecome pale and flaccid.” Whether internal or external thj often contain a central cavity filled with fluid, or coagulated blood, of a dark colour. ‘ ‘ More frequently there is no regular cavity, the sutoce of the tumour- being as if infiltrated with blood which becomes coagulated and dark; but this appearance is not owing S exrfavasation, but rather to a. dilatation of a vessels which ti-averse the tissue m the direction of the axis of rectum as unon dividing the part longitudinally, numerous darx streaks are seen in its substance, while a section made transver- y 1 show, oily sLu round,8h spooks." ta tumours donate, assuming a conical form with bases larger than their necks. >-ome times blood is exhaled from their surface, sometimes only a serom fluid and sometimes when they are external they are quite • have been large, these flaps continue conspicuou and ^ve^ p«_ caUy inflamed, these tumours become more perm^ent and^M “ The permanent state of the tumouis is ow p- t development of capillary vessel % and lymph becoming organized, tins iattei cucu ‘ found giving rise to the excrescences, or irregular mass ofd Ground the anus in those subject to hemorrhoids & variety of hemorrhoidal tumours mclude^such^s a f J pure dilatation, or varicose state of the veins oi me p»