684 MORBUS BRIGHTII. of it, and it is certain that it is not of the essence of the disease. In the more advanced instances of degeneration, before, however, atrophy of the kidney has become decidedly apparent, the cortical tubuli exhibit unequivocal traces of breaking up. Their basement membrane is lost; their epithelium, though still preserving the tubular form, is tending to become a mere detritus, and the com- mencing appearance of granulations shows that atrophy is taking place in some parts, while others remain prominent and distended by their included cell growth. Microscopic cysts are sometimes imbedded in the cortical tissue, and may tend, m some measure, to increase the size of the kidney, but they are not so numerous as in the more atrophied condition. The medullary tubuli are less affected than the cortical; those near the base of the cones, espe- cially, often are filled by accumulated epithelium, while those nearer the inammilke are more free, and contain, either some oily matter, or fibrinous casts, or yellow corpuscles, the result of haemorrhagic effusion. The matrix tissue is little altered in itself, but is in some cases infiltrated here and there with a granulous exudation matter containing a few nuclear corpuscles; these are sometimes elongated and developing fibres. These are the excep- tional cases, to which we have already referred. Morbid Contents of the Tubes.—The uriniferous tubes in this, as in some other morbid conditions of the kidney, contain, beside the altered epithelium, two kinds of products, which deserve special attention, viz., the hyaline or so-called fibrinous cylinders or casts and newly-formed cells or corpuscles. The composition of the former is not positively known ; no fibrillation is usually per- ceptible in them, though it is said that in rare cases some approach to it has been observed, and they seem to have been called fibrinous chiefly because they were regarded as the result of exudation. This view has given rise to the name croupous ne- phritis, applied to one form of kidney disease by some German pathologists, from its supposed analogy with croup of mucous surfaces and “ croupous pneumonia.” Rokitansky, on the other hand, regards all hyaline cysts, as formed by the metamorphosis of the renal epithelium by a sort of colloid degeneration; and when the cast and epithelium are found in the same tube (as in Rig. 158), supposes the cast to be the result of metamorphosis of epithelium higher up the tube. This appearance is, however, too general to be entirely explained in this way, and it must be taken as proved, that the hyaline material is in most cases something beside epithelium. Rindfleisch describes this substance in question as a product of the epithelium, especially of the straight tubes. The epithelial cells, he supposes, produce colloid masses in their sub- stance ; and these at length become fused into a cylindrical mass, filling up the tube. It is not easy to trace this process; but it must be admitted that occasionally a substance not unlike in appearance the material of the hyaline casts is seen in drops or small masses within the tubes. This may sometimes be seen in