HYDATID AND OTHER CYSTS. .319 patches pass insensibly into the indurated and congested surround- ing tissue. When degeneration sets in, the central portions become yellow, fatty, and necrotic, while the outer portions fc become more fibrous, and ultimately a mass of cheesy or calcareous :i material, or simply a fibrous cicatrix, is all that remains. The L latter ultimate stages of degeneration are not unfrequently met > with in the lungs of syphilitic individuals, and are hardly dis- tinguishable from old tubercular products, except by being gene- r rally distributed through the lung and not occurring specially at • the apex. It should be remembered that fibrous scars or puckered patches are less likely to be permanent in the lung than in more > solid organs. The microscopical appearances are those of inter- - stitial proliferation, with inflammatory changes in the air cells, ultimately resulting in the formation of rather dense fibrp- nucleated tissue—i.e., essentially what is described in the “white pneumonia.” We have observed in one case a peculiar fibroid : change round the pulmonary artery, suspected to be syphilitic.* HYDATID AND OTHER CYSTS. The formation of cysts in the lungs is of rare occurrence and ^perfectly latent, so that they are not discovered until after death, . unless they excite irritation; they may then find their way into the bronchi and be expectorated. They occupy the lower lobes of the organs. _ They consist, themselves, of a double membrane of a clear pellucid appearance, which under the microscope presents an homogeneous, delicately laminated structure. The laminae form i parallel lines, so as to resemble the pages of an open book. The (■pulmonary tissue adjoining the cyst is covered by a dense mem- brane, so that, although entirely surrounded by the pulmonary ;parenchyma, there is not in reality any real intimate relation I with it. They generally contain a limpid fluid, and present an endogenous development of hydatids of the same character as the parent cyst. They vary in size, but an instance which occurred to us, of an acephalo-cyst sufficiently capacious to contain a hen’s -egg> must be looked upon as unusually large. It neither contained secondary hydatids nor echinococci. A unique case of cysts in the lungs, filled with air, is quoted by Hasse.t ■* Payne, “Trans Path. Soc.,” vol. xxv. + “ Pathological Anatomy,” Syd. Soc. ed., p. 337.