CHAPTER XX. MORBID ANATOMY OF THE ENDOCARDIUM. It has required the multiplied observations of numerous labourers in the field of pathology to establish the true nature and importance of endocardial affections : Laennec and J. P. Prank were among the first to draw attention to inflammatory conditions of the endo cardium, but we owe the more correct appreciation of the subject to Bouillaud and Hope. The pathology of the endocardium is as significant in regard to its primary, as it is with regard to its secondary, lesions. The membrane is analogous to that lining the blood-vessels ; it consists of a layer of epithelium, between which and the muscular fibre of the heart there is a layer of connective tissue ; it is in the latter that blood-vessels ramify, and through them the nutrition of the surface-laminse becomes affected, in dis- ease as well as by the direct influence of the blood contained in the cavities of the heart. It is necessary to bear this double relation in mind, as, without a due perception of these facts, we shall find it difficult to harmonize our general knowledge of morbid changes with the apparent exceptions that endocardial disease brings to our notice. A careful examination of the endocardium is necessary, before we determine positively that the appearances we find are due to pathological alterations; the earlier observations lose much of their value from post-mortem staining having been mistaken for inflammatory reddening. When the change of colour, which, naturally, is of the palest white and translucent, is due to inflam- mation, the redness cannot be washed off, being, in fact, situated beneath the epithelium, nor is it rapidly destroyed by maceration • the membrane is pulpy and thickened, and in' an advanced state’ further products of inflammation are found beneath or upon the membrane. Where the redness is the result of mere imbibition wo usually find the blood in the cavity fluid. The later the post ’ mortem examination is made after death, and the warmer the weather at the time, the more likely are we to find the linine- membrane of the heart and arteries stained with blood. The redness of imbibition is darker in proportion to the period the