CAUSES OF HAEMORRHAGE. 67 that while the fluid of serous effusions is very rarely spontaneously coagulable, it nearly always contains one of the two constituents by the combination of which fibrin is formed, namely, the fibrino- genous substance of Schmidt. This substance, when mixed with fibri no-plastic substance, or paraglobulin, as for instance with blood-corpuscles, immediately coagulates into fibrin. An exceed- ingly small quantity of paraglobulin is sufficient. Schmidt only failed to produce this result in eleven out of ninety-three cases; and in several of these exceptional cases it was evident that coagulation had already taken place within the body. It does not seem possible to draw any clear line between those exudations which do and those which do not spontaneously coagulate. A slight admixture of blood may of course produce the former result; and so .may post-mortem transudation from the vessels. Passive Flux.—Passive fluxes are of extreme frequency, and are almost invariably associated with debility. Their copiousness, thG aqueous nature of the fluid, the frequent pallor, and non-elevated temperature.of the parts from whence they proceed, as well as re- laxed condition of these, may be said to be their general characters. They take place, as is manifest, from mucous surfaces, or from the glands that open upon them, and are, in consequence, mingled, more or less, with liquor muci, and with epithelial particles, in various stages of formation. In some cases, as in bronchorrhcea, occasionally they may depend upon venous obstruction; but their most essential cause seems to be a peculiarly relaxed and toneless state of the walls of the vessels, and of the tissues affected. This Bconiimed by the beneficial effect of astringents, locally applied. At the same tune, there is no doubt that the state of the blood, and ot the system generally, has an influence upon them, and that as the quality (the crasis) of the former is improved, so the debi- litating profluvium will diminish. It is reasonable to suppose that in this way the walls of the vessels are brought into a con- dition of more healthy tone. The peculiar condition of the tissues, as to their vital endowments, seems to be the only sufficient cause to which we can at all ascribe the different phenomena exhibited u iru same tissues, under similar circumstances. One person s a have a chrome bronchitis, with puriform expectoration, while another person is suffering under bronchorrhcea, although the cir- cumstances may be similar, and the two affections very much alike in their outset. When we speak of a toneless and relaxed con- dition of the vessels being the main cause of the flux, we do not so much mean to imply a defect in their contractile power (though this doubtless exists), but rather such an alteration of their tex- tl5,e’ af “at they are much more transudable by the aqueous part of the blood than is normally the case. In health a certain slLht exudation takes place from the capillaries and all the minuter lbathed Ur"18 a.nutrient atmosphere, in which the tissues are bathed. The exact composition of this is uncertain; but as the following experiment shows, it probably contains less albumen