544 MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TONSILS. place almost constantly, and the connection may sometimes he traced in the form of white cords running downwards from the base of the tongue, which doubtless represent lymphatic vessels enlarged and infiltrated with cancerous growth. The microscopic structure is that usually seen in flat-celled epithelioma, the great mass of the tumour being made up of epithelial scales, often arranged in loculi, and forming the well-known concentric or birds’-nest bodies. The same strictly epithehal growth may be found infiltrating the tissues beyond the apparent limits of the tumour itself, and is produced also as a secondary formation m the infected lymphatic glands. In this, as in other situations where epithelioma occurs, the epithelial formations m deep parts appear to be in direct continuity with the surface epithelium which grows inwards, so as to infect the connective tissue and ^ Fatty tumours and simple cysts are occasionally met with in the tongue, and Dr. Salter mentions the occurrence of pedunculated polypoid growths, which seem to be of the nature of simple fibrous or fibro-cellular tumours. MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE TONSILS. Inflammation. —The tonsils are a common seat of inflammation and its consequences. In an acute attack they become swollen, sometimes enormously, so as to impede the respiration. The pillars of the fauces, and the soft palate, are also involved in the inflammation. Suppuration often occurs, and is, perhaps, the best result, next to complete resolution; but more frequently, the in. perfectly subdued hypersemia produces actual enlargement, and fresh attacks occurring, a chronic hypertrophy of the gland is the result. We have examined some enlarged tonsils which had been excised and found their structure to be quite identical with chat of the healthy gland, so that the alteration constituted a true hjSiructwIofthe Tonsils.—It seems worth while to noticebriefly this 150int which we think is not well understood, as it explains m some measure the liability of these parts to hypertrophic enlargement. They are made up of a number oi duplicates and involution> mucous membrane, which, however, is differently c°°"secS to what it is in other parts m the vicinity.. shows the thin surface-layer of scaly epithelium with a tiuck m derlying stratum, consisting of nuclei, or very slight y P cells of a lymphatic type, which are imbedded m a stroma or nei work of firm threads, so that the whole constitutes what m called “ adenoid,” lymphoid, or cytogenous connective - L Part I P- 153), such as is found under the epithehal layer m feveral parts of the intestinal tract. . This layer is travemedby vessels, which are of capacious size in hypertrophied specimens,