PUERPERAL LYMPHANGITIS. 792 dependent upon the affection just described. The muscular sub- stance is found infiltrated 'with inflammatory cells, and ultimately breaks down into suppuration with the production of abscesses, which, as in corresponding conditions of the kidney, are found mostly in the outer parts of the organ. In this way a large portion of the uterus may be destroyed. The affection is usually accom- panied by thrombosis and puriform softening of the clots. It readily extends to the surrounding tissues, producing local peri- tonitis and subperitoneal abscesses. They most frequently start from fissures and ruptures of the cervix, which become covered with false membrane. Inflammation of the Ovaries ard Fallopian Tubes.—These parts are Very commonly affected in puerperal inflammations. The tubes, doubtless, become inflamed by direct continuity with the surface of the uterus. In metro-salpingitis, as this affection may be called, the lining membrane of the tube is found injected with catarrhal in- flammation. and showing profuse suppuration, or the cavity may contain sanious or putrid matters. It is needless to point out how easily these conditions are propagated to the peritoneum. The inflammation thus produced is often only partial or limited to the vicinity of the tubes. Puerperal oophoritis does not notably differ from simple inflam- mation already described; it is usually suppurative. SECONDARY AFFECTIONS. The morbid conditions above described are the primary inflam- mations of the puerperal state. We have now to consider the secondary affections of the surrounding parts. These affections are not only important in themselves, but as indicating the means by which the local puerperal inflammations produce a general blood poisoning, pyaemia, or puerperal fever. The lymph and blood-vessels must be first considered, then the adjacent serous cavity of the peritoneum. PUERPERAL LYMPHANGITIS. The lymphatic vessels very frequently become affected in puer- peral inflammations, and always in consequence of endometritis or metritis. The first change perceived in them is, according to lvlob, dilatation of the uterine lymphatics. These vessels are seen in a varicose state on the serous surface of the uterus, and con- taining a lax fibrinous coagulum, which in many of the vessels is softened into a puriform liquid, so that when one of these is opened it looks like an abscess. The coagulation of lymph is an altogether abnormal phenomenon and depends on the uterine inflammation. Inflammation of the lymphatic glands connected with these vessels