VARIETIES OF HYPEILEMIA. 46 also occur, or such congestion as produces an attack of convulsions. Obstructive valvular disease of the heart, throwing fhe blood back on the lungs, is the cause of the abiding dyspnoea which charac- terizes such complaints. The condition of the large hepatic veins, and of the infr. cava where it receives them, shows that the influence of inspiration must he felt as a powerful cause in pro- moting the circulation through the liver; when this, therefore, is impaired, as is the case in vesicular emphysema, or other diseases interfering with the respiratory movements, the liver will be con- gested, and the same will of course occur when in consequence of asphyxiating causes the blood does not pass freely through the lungs, but accumulates in the right side of the heart, and in the large veins. Now, in all such instances of congestion it may be remarked that there is no evidence of excitement of the part, if we except, at least, the occurrence of convulsions in attacks of paroxysmal cough; the temperature of the part is not raised, the functional activity is rather diminished than increased, and exuda- tions from the blood-vessels, if they occur, show no tendency to organization. Everything indicates that the hypersemia is merely the result of a mechanical cause,, and that there is no primary and special alteration of the vital endowments of the part. Relaxation of the Vessels.—The second cause of congestion, viz., atony of the vessels, may occur either primarily or secondarily. In adynamic fevers, in states of extreme debility, and perhaps in some persons whose tonicity is naturally defective, the vessels of a part become distended with blood, without any obstruction existing in the veins which convey their blood away, or without any previous inflammation or undue excitement having exhausted their natural contractility. The whole surface of the body, in some fevers of very low type, is covered with patches of con- gested vessels, and. it is to be noticed that these are chiefly seated in the under parts, the blood gravitating downwanls, and accumulating in this situation. Hence we derive a hint for a precaution well worth observing in continued fever, viz., to alter the position of the patient occasionally, and not to allow the blood to gravitate day after day to the posterior parts of the lungs, which in consequence are especially prone to engorge- ment and hepatization. Primary atony of the vessels of the choroid coat of the eye seems not unirequently to occur, and to be the cause of the muscse volitantes to which the dyspeptic and others are subject. The vessels of the uterus in passive menorrhagia, and those of the vagina in non-inflammatory leucorrhoea, are not un- frequently affected by primary atonic- congestion. It is, however, much more common that atony of the vessels occurs secondarily in consequence of some previous excitement or inflammation. This in fact is almost always the case in persons of feeble power, when they are attacked by inflammation ; when the disease is subdued there still remains behind this congested state of the overstrained vessels, which being naturally of weak tonicity, are unable to