ATELECTASIS PULMONTJM. II U 4G5 place, will be a subject for further consideration at a subsequent page, when we come to discuss the pathological states of the pleura. ATELECTASIS PULMONTJM. Diametrically opposed to the condition which we have just con- sidered, is one which is peculiar to early life, and frequently has been confounded with the results of pneumonia. It consists in the permanence of the foetal condition of the lungs; the vesicular structure either not being properly developed, or the infant not possessing sufficient force to expand the thorax, and cause the dila- tation of the breathing apparatus. It was first observed, and duly described under the name of atelectasis pulmonum,* by Professor Jorg , t who found that it occurred chiefly in full-grown infants of very feeble powers, or in such as had been born prematurely, and were, therefore, not in a condition to dispense with the pla- cental circulation. The inferior portions of the lungs are most liable to present this state ; it occurs in patches, which offer a dark- ened colour, do not crepitate on compression, and present a smooth surface on section. The affected part sinks in water. The part or lobule that has not undergone the due expansion, is below the level of the surrounding dilated lung tissue. Atelectasis is not necessarily ’ latal, it is probable that m many instances it is entirely overcome, as the child acqmres vigour, or that while a few lobules remain in a permanently contracted state, the remainder of the lung suffices ni!<■ l-lr.p 11 lpos®® ot aeration. We frequently, in adults, meet with puckenngs of the surface of the lung without any trace of inflam- ,1 ion, vhicli may perhaps be set down to this congenital state of the tissues ; or possibly the small nodules of fibroid or calcareous W often bnd equally without appreciable recent * WhliCh theJ COUld be reforred> may be due to the same ™ them to faY0Ur P^'ts in which there is an arrest development Dr. West observes, that if air be blown into a some lobules of which are not duly expanded, it will per- meate the collapsed air-tubes ; the pulmonary vesicles will by de- ft"'* become distended, and the solid lobules rise to a level with me rest of the lung, acquiring the same colour and consistence, and, hke other parts of the organ, will float in water. A sin°le nutation, however, is by no means sufficient to render this chaneo Eenenti;f{!Uti trhe1 moment the tube is withdrawn the air wfll fUd t|le lobules recently distended will again collapse and K I1*'; rest ot' tho lur‘g; their colour, too, will become ark, though less so than before. In conjunction with imperfect amlTk810!11 ° thT hm". tissue, we invariably find the foramen ovale the ductus Bctalli still open. The pathology of the affection, r “I“TeXfcimperfect; eiraon, expansion. n-1 ”e ITilmonum Vitio Organico,” Ac. Libs if«M ■ ..... , Oehornen Kmde.” Grirnma, 1835. P ’ Dlc Fl,t,,s’unge im