43 IXYPEE^EMIA. dyspepsia, or some cutaneous disorder, or a bilious attack. Most of the circumstances that promote a robust state of health, with the exception of exercise, are favourable to plethora; and, on the other hand, such as depress the general vigour, or induce diseases of debility, prevent its development.* Asthenic plethora is pro- bably in most cases dependent upon an unhealthy state of the liquor sanguinis, occasioned by impaired action of some of the excretory glands, which itself may depend on some latent organic diseases of the same. Consequences of Plethora.—The consequences of plethora have already been in part alluded to. They are generally such as result from over-distension of the vascular system. On account of its proximity to the heart, its delicate structure, and the large supply of blood it receives, it is not surprising that the brain should suffer from this cause more than most other organs. Eupture of some of its thin-walled vessels may take place, or the blood be poured out from numerous capillaries, though it is doubtful whether these results ever occur except there be also some disease of the vessels. The great capacity of the vascular system of the liver will cause it to be enlarged by the increased distending force of the blood-mass, more, in proportion, than many other organs. This will be especially the case if dilated hyper- trophy of the right chambers exist, and the blood is thrown back on the venous side of the circulation. Again, in consequence of hepatic congestion, the tributaries of the portal vein will also be congested; and this seems more especially to affect the hpomor- rhoidal plexus of veins, which become distended into the little tumours, well known as “piles,” and often give rise to a salutary haemorrhage. Another haemorrhage, not unfrequent in plethoric persons, especially the young, is from the veins of the nose. This seems especially to give relief to cerebral congestion. Menorrhagia may also be dependent on, or at least greatly increased, by a plethoric state. The natural determination of blood at the cata- menial periods will of course be often attended with a greater- discharge, on account of the increased tension of the vascular system. Though we consider it at least doubtful whether the plethoric are more prone to inflammation than others, there is no doubt that when inflammation is set up in them it is more violent, and requires more aetive treatment. Dr. Copland states also that the severer forms of fever in the West Indies affect young and plethoric strangers, rather than older residents, the aged, and the weakly. It is not improbable that plethora may play some part in producing a varicose state of the veins, but * There is no doubt that the cessation of habitual discharges, or their arrest by art, especially when suddenly effected, and without any corresponding modification of the system, induces a dangerous plethora. This should Dever be forgotten, not only in treating persons who are manifestly of plethoric habit, but even those who seem and are really in a different state. It seems that the vascular system, after having been long insufficiently filled with blood, cannot bear the amount of distension immediately which in the state of health would only be natural to it.