394 FURTHER METAMORPHOSES OF THROMBI. precipitation of fibrin upon them. The cerebral arteries and tbe coronary arteries of tbe heart have been found blocked up by a similar process. It is easy to see bow in all such cases a clot once formed will extend by causing coagulation of fresh layers of blood upon itself; and in this way spread through the whole diameter and length of one artery as well as into its branches. Obstruction seems, however, to be sometimes effected very suddenly by these means in the smaller arteries. Thrombosis of the coronari ai tones of the heart has been known to cause sudden death ; and thrombosis of the cerebral arteries sudden hemiplegia, or a “ paralytic stroke. In the greater number of cases, however, obstruction of artene» is caused by the impaction of a mass carried from a distance, or embolism, which we shall speak of directly. This may, of course, and often does, give rise to thrombosis, a clot extending m one or both directions from the embolus, after the manner of what we have called a secondary thrombus._ The extent of this will depend upon the amount of collateral circulation, the situation oi the branches, and also upon the rigidity or elasticity of the walls. If they are very elastic they will contract, forcing the blood out of them, and thus none will be left to form a clot; but if they are rigid, the vessels will not become emptied, and a long thrombus may be produced. . ... - , , Thrombosis of Capillaries.—Coagulation m the capillaries of a certain area may be the consequence of obstruction either m the artery leading to the spot or the vein leading from it. it may also be the consequence of some condition operating m the blood, and is a constant occurrence in septicaemia or pyaemia. It has m these diseases been attributed by some to a chemical change m the blood, by others to the presence of minute organisms (bactena), which block the capillaries. . _ , Consequences of Thrombosis.—Thrombosis of vems Pr0<™c®® chiefly oedema of the part from which the vein proceeds. Thus the feet and legs swell in the disease known as phkgmasiw arn dolens, in which the femoral and iliac vems are coagul i • Thrombosis of an artery produces m the part supplied y vessel a series of changes identical with those produced by embol ism, and which may therefore be considered hereafter. FURTHER METAMORPHOSES OF THROMBI. Softening and organization are the most important .modifications which thrombi ultimately undergo, boftemug was confounded with suppuration, but was shown by M • ’ 1839, to be really a distinct process; it has sumebeenvery. studied by Virchow.* It occurs chiefly or solely m stratum*! * Gulliver: “ On the Softening ' 95™"epr^U'd7rom “ Zeitsch. !{ ,-i; Vivnhnw ■ “ Gesammelte Abhandlungen, lt»0, P- • > I xxil. Virchow - fill'. Rat. Me<l.,” 1816.