349 ENDOCARDITIS. They are characterized by a row or fringe of translucent nodules along the line of apposition of the valves. When quite recent they have a close resemblance to the normal corpora Arantii seen ou the semilunar valves ; but are very numerous. These nodules or beads are now known to be formed in the first place by a hyperplastic growth of the connective tissue of the valve itself • they readily cause the precipitation upon them of fibrin from the blood, and the new growths thus enlarged form the villous excrescences which are called vegetations. These will be further considered below. Siippuration.—Ii the presence of lymph on the inner surface of the heart has never been satisfactorily established, it follows a iortiori, that we still less frequently meet with a purulent effusion : resulting from endocarditis. The loosening of the tissue, the ' want ol polish, and the felt-like character of the endocardium are sometimes very strongly marked in the centre of inflamma- tion and hence lacerations frequently occur. In these cases a • purulent product mixed with the blood may be found infil- trated into the tissue, if not at the surface of the endocardium ’ whilst abscesses are occasionally found to have spread themselves over a various extent of surface below the endocardium, in the • firi Si“7vfs°iuso"1“strata'deep “iie » of Endocarditis.-^ most important of these are-(l) Ulceration, (2) Fibrous thickening, (8) Dilatation, and (4) Em- ention. f °nf, °f the e£fecte of endocarditis is ulceration, it is met with on the parietes of the heart, but more uequently on the flaps of the valves, where it gives rise to perfora- tion and rupture. Perforation of the septum vontriculorum occa- I rlLrT tS thlS Cal,1S0- # A fr0e communication may thus be established, or the muscular wall may be completely destroyed but an exudation of fibnne having taken place on the^distal side’ the intermingling of the contents of the two cavities be prevented’ Jlceration and suppuration commonly give rise to pymmia which s due both to the mingling with the blood of some fever-produc- l and blocking of distant capillaries or small > arteries with masses detached from the heart. Chronic ulcerative endocarditis is a form which deserves In bo specially distinguished, since it may during life produce the gptoms merely of a chronic pymmiaf such as repeated rigors fc'gh temperature, and what are called “typhoid” svmntn™!’ It commonly occurs on the left side of the heart butt struction of‘if ufffctlnf^he t^icusPid valve, and causing ^b! blSs branches of the pulmonary artery with hcomorrhagic It is, however, scmetimes difficult or impossible to >1110 heart affection ia the cause or the coJ^Z, of Z geS • “ Trans. Path. Soo.,” vol. vi. p. 143.