ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 735 anything is known respecting cancer of these parts, except that they only suflier secondarily from extension of adjacent disease Hydrocele of the seminal vesicle has been described, and Professor N. E. Smith, of Baitimore, has recorded* a remarkable case in which the collection of brown serous fluid amounted to twenty pints, and gave rise to all the symptoms of retention of urine the bladder expelling its scanty contents every half hour, whilst a large fluctuating tumour distended the belly, and bulged into the partly obstructed rectum. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate is imperfectly developed when the organs of ; operation are so. Its size is diminished in some cases, when the testes are atrophied ; it is then rather consolidated in texture Hypertrophy of the prostate is an affection of advanced life, ‘about one man in three having some enlargement of the part after sixty iWb i°fLage’ Willst !n about twelTO Per cent. of men living ■ beyond this age the enlargement becomes notable, so as to be the • source of more or less trouble to the patient. In exceptional cases • f fmay attam a Slze so £reat as to displace the other pelvic contents, as m a case recorded by Sir Henry Thompson in which a prostate weighing twenty ounces pushed the bladder . nearly up to the umbilicus, even when empty. The condition : comes on quite imperceptibly, as one of those changes whose exist- ence is unknown till their secondary effects begin to be produced ■ The enlargement may take place in all the dimensions of the Hand -so that it expands laterally, downwards, and upwards. °Most ften one lateral lobe is enlarged more than the other which %d.eviatlon of the urethra to the other side. It is said that the left is the one most commonly affected, and that it also frequently projects more than the right towards the cavity of the This however, is by no means an invariable ruk.The so-called third lobe is commonly enlarged more or less when the datera1 lobes are so but may attain a great size without a^y cor-e- - ^ponding hypertrophy of the lateral. It forms a kind of pyramidal elevation, projectmg into the cavity of the bladder, and causing The^nfhrali011^Cieiit0 ,b° ra?sed> and ln some measure blocked up° .The enlarged middle lobe has been found of the size of a si mil range, more often it does not exceed that of a walnut; its surface may be smooth or nodulated. The hypertrophy of this ■ considerable, has the effect of throwing the neck of the bladder forward, and increasing the depth of its lower region ; caicuh may lodge behind and below the prostate in its 1? PpSie canal of the urethra becomes lengthened in ifo nm f 7* portion; sometimes divided into two channels W tl .prostatio * “ Lancet,” Oct. 19th, 1872.