ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF CANCER. 185 Fig. 42. part in which the growth takes place having suffered some un- known deterioration or perversion of its vital power. In opposition to this view has been elaborated the theory of cellular develop- ment, founded in great measure upon the facts of embryology, and purporting to unite in one view the formative processes both of vascular and non-vascular parts. According to this view every cell is the progeny of some other cell—omnis cellula e cellula—and just as in the formation of an embryonic limb the generations of tissue-elements may be traced back to one original ancestor, which first began to multiply by division or endogenous cell development (Goodsir, Eemak), so in the case of pathological new growths, their component cells may be traced back to pre-existing tissue- cells, of which they are the lineal descendants. What, in the case of new growths, determines the charac- ter which they assume is as little explained on this as on the other view; we do not even know whether it is a general cause affect- ing the whole body, or a special one affecting the part. All that is asserted is that the cause affects the original elements of the part as a special stimulus, causing them to take on some special kind of development. The evidences of this development are de- rived, firstly, in a general way from the fact that a new growth always takes its rise from some special tissue in an organ, e.g., from fibrous structures, or from epithelium, and that this mother-tissue, or matrix, has gieat influence on its type of organization; secondly, from the signs of multiplication, either by division, or more rarely by en- dogenous proliferation, which may be traced in the elements of the surrounding parts. 4-1} many cases transitional forms are met with which connect the original tissue- cells with the elements of the new growth. Ihiis, if we examine the peripheral portions of a cancer of the oreast;, we find the adipose tissue more or less infiltrated, as It 1 i 1 cance.rous growth. This infiltration consists in the gTaunal transformation of the adipose connective tissue into can- cotousiIs8 1°Cti -by th,Q I,roductiou from the connective tissue corpuscles of nuclei and elements resembling the cells nf ti,„ CTowtR th® 1interstices disappearing by the pressure of the cell growtn. Here several stages may be seen, such as m a con nective tissue corpuscle, containing several nuclei - oontoining in place of the ISHaWSefmu.h SefitfTh, eon“,nme to reetmble precisely * aiveoius of the cancer itself. In this case it is conclurWl th,. An piocess consists essentially in the conversion of the connective Diagram of the prolifer- ation of connective tissue. a. Simple connective tissue corpuscle, b. The same en- larged or hypertrophied, c. Division of the nucleus, d. Division of the cell. e. Further division of the cell and formation of round granulation cells. /. Con- tinued proliferation. (After Virchow.)