THE BLOOD CORPUSCLES. 11 excitement, and bleeding, if employed, is well borne. The effect of iron in promoting an increase of the red globules is well known, but it will often fail where tbe attendant circumstances are un- favourable ; and we have seen a much more rapid effect produced by the change from a scanty to an ample diet. Free exposure to fresh air and light seems also powerfully to promote the form- ation of red blood, as much as the deprivation of them tends to destroy it. Deficiency of Red Corpuscles.—The opposite condition to plethora forwhich the term spancemia((rnavos, scarce) is more appropriate than anaemia, is essentially characterized by a deficiency in red globules. This condition is met with in the disease known as chlorosis, when there is a chronic deficiency, both of the red and the white globules, and of the solid constituents of the blood generally so that the proportion of water is much above the normal. Deficiency of red globules perhaps never occurs without deficiency in some other constituents of the blood also. Extreme cases of spancemia are by no means unfrequent, and, which is not sufficiently known, are by no means unattended with serious danger. Sudden death has in several instances taken place apparently from the cessation of the heart’s action, the debilitated organ being insufficiently stimulated by the impoverished blood. In an extreme case of chlorosis Andral found the globules at so low an amount as 38-7 per 1,000, the water at the same time being increased from 790 to 868'7. Similar alterations were found in the blood of other indi- viduals who had become anaemic from other causes, from lead poisoning, the cancerous or tuberculous cachexia, or from repeated losses of blood. In Bright’s disease there is evidently a marked failure in the power of producing red globules, and the same is the case in the peculiar affection termed leucocythcemia, which either depends on, or is coincident with, great hypertrophy of the spleen. We are inclined to think that in spanaamic states the red globules are not only deficient in number but defective in quality; they appear under the microscope manifestly paler than those of per- sons who have a healthy colour, their hsematoglobin being in all probability not properly formed. The well-known symptoms of this condition are general debility, diminished temperature, palpitation, often excessive, of the heart, and various nervous affections. Dissolution of Blood Corpuscles.—In some of the most malig- nant fevers the blood corpuscles appear to be actually destroyed. Dr. Williams has observed this in a case of albuminuria proving fatal by purulent infection, and in a case of malignant scarla- tina ; wo have examined tho blood a few times in persons dying of such diseases, but have not found any noticeable alteration in the globules. Unless in very extreme casos, such as that observed by Dr. Williams, it would be very difficult to get clear evidonce of tho dissolution of blood corpuscles, although it is probablo that this may occasionally occur from the operation of