TUBERCLE XX TIIE LUNGS. 494 are not as yet very well known, but they appear to resemble tubercles in many respects. 5. Small Fibroid Granulations of uncertain origin are sometimes found scattered through the lung where the history and absence of accompanying changes forbid the supposition that theyare tubercles. Such granulations are far more common on the pleura and other serous membranes, and those occurring in such situations may be taken as a standard of comparison for the ill-defined nodules in the lung. Grey Miliary Tubercles.—These when met with in an uncompli- cated form (as in acute miliary tuberculosis) are hard, resistent, translucent bodies, projecting on the cut surface of the lung, of a pale grey colour, sometimes yellower and more opaque in the centre. Their shape appears at first sight round, but a low mag- nifying power, or even close examination with the unaided eye, will suffice to show that they are really angular, and that the angles are prolonged into the intervesicular or interstitial structure of the lung. The average size may be estimated as about that of a pin’s head, the extremes varying from the limit of vision to the size of a hemp seed, or J-inch in diameter. If larger than (or perhaps even as large as) this, it is extremely probable that the apparent size of the tubercle is increased by inflammatory or hypertrophic change in the surrounding parts, which we may not be able to detect with the unaided eye. The microscopical examination of these tubercles, especially in sections of the lung containing them, shows that they consist of small cells, sometimes containing nuclei, often not (and in this case undistinguishable from nuclei), generally arranged somewhat concentrically7 round one or more centres. The more external parts usually consist of larger cells, the central parts of smaller, or the latter may even be degenerated and amorphous. Sometimes by tear- ing the structure out with needles larger many-nucleated cells, like ‘1 myeloid ” cells, may be demonstrated. Intercellular substance is less easy to make out than in tubercles from some other parts. Complicated Miliary Tubercle.—The tubercle may, as we have said, give rise to inflammatory or hypertrophic changes in the sur- rounding tissue, and the nature of these will depend upon the dis- position of the organ in which the tubercle occurs. In the lung the changes thus produced are chiefly of two kinds—(1) catarrhal inflammation, (2) hypertrophy of connective tissue, chiefly result- ing, not in the formation of vascular fibrous tissue, but of cytoge- nous or adenoid tissue, which gives the appearance known as fibroid degeneration, or induration. Haemorrhage also frequently occurs, but its precise relation to the production of tubercle is not known; and breaking down, or the formation of cavities, which will be further discussed. In many cases where all or any of these changes accompany7 tubercle, it is impossible to say7 whether they have pre- ceded or followed it. , . . The most important histological fact is that the tubercle is not