141 _ IT.—NETT GROWTH OF CARTILAGE ; CARTILAGINOUS TUMOURS ; CHONDROMA. The pathological production of cartilage in a diffuse form may take place in the repair of fractures of bone;* in the formation of new or false articulations after dislocations, or as hypertrophy of normal cartilages, but never in the repair of cartilage which has become injured or destroyed. Outgrowths of car til aye, known as ecchondroses, are met with on the cartilages of the ribs, in the larynx or trachea, and on articular cartilages, such as the sym- physis pubis. The dendritic vegetations of joints often produce true cartilage, which then exists in the form of pendulous masses. If these become detached by natural involution or accident, they form the loose cartilages, for which operative interference is some- times necessary. Bodies of this kind are, however, not always cartilaginous, being sometimes fibrous and sometimes calcified. From these outgrowths must be clearly distinguished the true cartilaginous tumour (chondroma or enchondroma) which never grows from a pre-existing cartilage. Enchondroma.—This name was applied by Muller to certain tumours essentially consisting of cartilaginous structure, whose real nature was first discovered by him. Enchondroma forms usually a globular tumour, with a smooth or somewhat Fm. 19. tuberiform surface. Internally a section displays a structure which differs much in different cases, and is homogeneous, ex- cept in quite small tumours. Frequently some parts are gelatinous, or almost ljquid, and others are composed of fibrous and vascular connect- ive tissue. Some are composed of dense fibro-cartilage; in other cases this is replaced by an amorphous, firm intercel- lular substance, similar to hya- line cartilage. In fact, every variety of normal cartilage may be met with in these tumours ; which occasion ally preso i it ovon the peculiar form of cartilage „ , , with stellate anastnmniinoTplk Enchondroma composed of flbro-cartijage; stellate anastomosing ceils microscopic structure. (After Lebert ) tounu as a normal structure only in the cephalopoda.! Tho cartilage is in general arranged Hhitohfgy'" “8urgicaI rathology’” 8econd cdition> P- 183; Wedl. “Pathological + Paget's “ Surgical Pathology,” second edition, p. 495.