So i ENCHONDBOMA. phyto. The layer of new bone, lie says, varies in thickness from a very thin film to half a line, and more : generally occupies the frontal and parietal bones, but is sometimes found covering the whole inner surface of the cranial vault, and scattered in patches over the base of the skull. But the connection of this growth with the puerperal state is very doubtful. Rokitansky’s second variety of osteophyte is the splintered or laminated form, presenting itself in excrescences and lamelhe several lines in length, of a conical shape, and terminating in a sharp point, which are found chiefly in the neighbourhood of the cancellous parts of bone affected with caries. The next form of osteophyte which we have to consider is that which appears to be mainly the result of chronic rheumatic arthritis; it is distinguished by forming excrescences of a warty and stalactitic character, which are developed in the vicinity of joints of persons labouring under this disease; the articular sur- faces may be partially absorbed and present patches of enamel- like deposit, while the new osseous formations are thrown out, as it were, to support the defective mechanism. The osteophyte pro- duced under such circumstances sometimes surrounds the joint and gives rise to a bony ankylosis. The bodies of the vertebrae are frequently found united to one another by osseous vegeta- tions, extending over two or more bones, like bridges; they are analogous to the callus uniting fractures, but appear to be the result of some constitutional cause. Similar bony ridges are also observed to form between the ribs. The cauliflower osteophyte is described by Lobstein as a large sessile tumour, which is more or less compact at the base, and becomes spongy towards the surface, sometimes attaining the size of the head of a seven-months’ child. It may arise from periosteal bony growth, or occasionally merely forms an ossification of the stroma or fibrous envelope of some form of morbid growth, as scirrhous, fibrous, fungous tumours, and the like. Lobstein’s general theory of osteophytic growths is, that they consist mainly of an ossification of the tissues surrounding the bone; according to this view, the diffused osteophyte is nothing but ossification of the cellular tissue, uniting the periosteum to the bone; the fibro- reticular osteophyte an ossification of the periosteum itself, the flat and styloid form the ossified tendinous and aponeurotic fibres, while the variety now spoken of and that causing ankylosis is attributed to ossification of the intermuscular cellular tissue; he denies the inflammatory origin of the malady, and sets it down to a morbid hypertrophy. EUCHONDBOXTA. The abnormal cartilage formed in connection with bone or enchondroma consists essentially of the same chemical and micro-