73 LETTCOCYTHiEMIA OR LEUCHiEMIA are names given to a condition of the blood in which the white corpuscles are enormously increased in number. The former name is the more correct, as the blood does not lose its red colour, and as the prominent alteration in it is the great increase of white cor- puscles. When a drop of blood, drawn during life, is examined microscopically, the red corpuscles appear tolerably natural, and often arranged in rouleaux, leaving intermediate spaces, which are more or less crowded with the white corpuscles. It is difficult to say what is the proportion which the one set of corpuscles hear to the other. In cases which we have witnessed, we should have regarded them as nearly equal, comparing mass to mass, or thus estimated, the colourless may, from their larger size, preponderate. Dr. Bennet estimates the white as scarcely one-third the number of the red, which seems about the average proportion in advanced cases. Many of the white cor- puscles are very much larger than the natural size. They have more coarsely granular contents than the normal ones, with an interior single, double, or tripartite nucleus. The en- velope and nucleus are brought L into view distinctly by the ac- tion of acetic acid, which ren- ders the granular contents transparent. Occasionally a cre- scentic nucleus is to be seen in the cells, and some free nuclei also are observed between them. In rare cases, coloured nucleated corpuscles, or transitional forms between the white and the red, have been observed. The blood, in fatal cases, is often found imperfectly coagulated—some- times grumous, of a dirty brown colour. The coagula, where decolorized, have not the aspect of healthy fibrine, but are of a more opaque dull yellow, and, when broken up, resemble thick creamy pus. They contain in this part very numerous white cor- puscles, to which the peculiar aspect is no doubt due. The red corpuscles are invariably diminished; the solids of the serum little altered; but the specific gravity of the blood shows a constant dimi- nution (from 1055 to 1040 or 1035). The iron is also deficient from the paucity of red corpuscles. In some cases the blood has had an acid reaction, and has contained xanthin and hypoxanthin (bodies also obtained from the spleen), together with gelatin and some other nitrogenous substances of simpler constitution, and lactic acid. Morbid Anatomy.—Morbid changes are chiefly observed, in' the first place, in the spleen and the lymphatic glands; secondly, in Fia. 5. Blood in Leucooythsemia—four of the\ white corpuscles have been treated with acetic acid. From Dr. H. Bennet’s work.