124 degenerations. Eig. 14. Connective-tissue corpuscles from the inner coat of an artery, in a state of fatty degeneration. (Alter Rindfleisch.) so that the functional power of the organ is pro tardo destroyed. The hepatic cells in true fatty degeneration not only fill them- selves with oil, hut fuse together with others, and break up into granulous films, entang- ling oil-drops; this destruction does not occur when they simply become loaded with oil from the presence of a large quantity of this substance in the food. The process by which fibrinous co- agula, or extra-vascular de- posits are broken down and dissolved, seems to be in some measure of the nature of fatty degeneration; there is com- monly much free oily matter visible in the softened mass, and the exudation corpuscles seem to be thoroughly charged with it. Fatty degeneration is clearly a kind of atrophy, but not identical with the simple form; we have seen muscular fibres of the heart, which were 5 y atrophied, and had lost their transverse striation entirely, winch yet did not contain a single particle of oil. The prevalent opinion respecting the nature of fatty degeneration is that.there occurs true conversion of the albuminous substance of the tissue mto fatty mattei lust as when adipocere is formed out of flesh immersed in water, but this is opposed by Dr Ormerod s inv®fa^tmn». However this may be, it is important to distinguish the following conditions in which the quantity of fatty matter m and part is greatly increased. (1) Mere accumulation of adipose sub- stance in and around an organ, the tissue remaining heaithy (2) accumulation of adipose tissue in the same waybutwit atrophy of the proper structure; (3) increase of od in the elementary structure of a part without atrophy, or breakin up, S true fatty degeneration, in which the structure is more or loss dpstroved aiid its elementary parts converted into oily matter. d It i, remarkable that poisoning with phosphorus into urea, being formed at the same tune. induration. It Fibroid degeneration is somewhat allied aueg ;md of occasions the gradual thickening 0> se foct v-nd of fibrous areolar tissue by the formation of a P d t]ien structure. This may attain a considerable ttackuess, by its dead white aspoct resemble v ery mnc d bas been The capsule of the spleen is sometimes thus altered, and has