ABNOBHAL CONDITIONS OF THE TESTICLE. 719 Fig. 16f>. of those of children; two of these were of weak mind, but this condition is by no means the frequent accompaniment of cretinism or idiocy. A case recorded by Mr. Wilson shows the influence of aroused mental emotions in producing the due development of the generative organs, which had not taken place at the twenty-sixth year of age. The atrophy of the testis in old age comes on very gradually, the organ becomes flabby, and its tissues discoloured, but it is seldom diminished in size. Mr. Curling states that the ordinary weight of a sound testicle, in a healthy adult, is about six drachms, great individual differences, however, being often met with, as well as differences between the two glands; the left was heavier than the right in five cases out of six. It the weight fall below three drachms, the organ may be certainly said to be in a state of atrophy. In one instance known to us both testes were reduced to the size of small peas, and the individual, aged twenty-three, presented all the characteristics of a eunuch. “ A testicle in an advanced state of wasting, not arising from disease of the gland, usually preserves its shape, but feels soft, having lost its plumpness, elasticity, and firmness. The tunica albuginea is thin. Its texture is pale,.and exhibits few blood-vessels ; the tubuli and septa dividing the lobes are indistinct, and the former cannot be so readily drawn out into shreds as before. The epididymis does not usually waste so soon, nor in the same degree, as the body of the testicle. It sometimes, however, loses its charac- teristic appearance; and I have even found it reduced to a few fibrous threads. The fluid pressed out of the wasted testicle and epididymis is entirely desti- tute of spermatic granules and sperma- tozoa. In many instances adipose tissue is deposited behind the tunica vaginalis, and encroaches on the epididymis, and the posterior part of the testicle. Fatty matter is also found in the glandular substance. The structures composing the spermatic cord undergo a corresponding diminution, the. cremaster muscle dis- appears, the nerves shrink, and the ves- sels are reduced in size and number. Thevas deferens, though small, can gene- rally be injected with mercury as far as the commencement of the epididymis, and sometimes the metal reaches the vasa efferentia. * The causes of atrophy of the testis are very various : deprivation * Mr. Culling, Op. tit., p. C5. Inflammation of tunica vaginalis, after application of caustic, the aperture made by this is shown at *. There are flocculi of lymph on the serous surface of the testis (From Mr. Curling’s article )