502 CATARRHAL OR BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC PHTHISIS, ETC. The differences between these forms depend essentially upon the mingling, in different proportions, of tubercles properly so called, j with the products of acute or chronic inflammation. The first form of phthisis is essentially a pneumonia, with peculiar history j and tendencies; the second is similar pneumonia with miliary | tubercles superadded; in the third the disease appears to begin with the formation of tubercles, hut soon to become complicated with pneumonic processes. The second and third forms will then, I when they have reached a certain stage, be practically identical, 1 and their distinction will be a matter of inference, not of observa- tion. They will therefore he described together. The production j of fibroid tissue, or induration from chronic inflammation, may be a part of either of these diseases; but in the form called fibroid phthisis it is the predominating change. I.—CATARRHAL OR BRONCHO-PNEUMONIC PHTHISIS ; CASEOUS PNEUMONIA ; SCROFULOUS PNEUMONIA (VIRCHOW). This form of disease, though it undoubtedly exists, we believe to be, in an nnmixed form, rare. When it occurs it is as a sub-acute disease, sometimes following an acute febrile complaint, as measles or simply acute bronchitis. When chronic we believe it to become almost invariably complicated with the production of tubercles, and usually of fibroid tissue also; the disease then becomes mixed phthisis. At the same time there are cases of chronic limited broncho'-pneumonia when the presence of tubercle cannot always be traced; and we thus have two actually occurring forms of the disease—(1) acute and general; (2) chronic and partial. In un- roixed catarrhal phthisis, we have a considerable portion of one or both lungs, sometimes nearly the whole, consolidated; while other portions are softened or actually converted into cavities; and there is a certain proportion of normal lung tissue. The consolidated portions are to a large extent yellow, dry and friable, in fact caseous. This condition is the yellow tubercular infiltration of Laennec, the scrofulous pneumonia, caseous pneumonia, or tuber- cular pneumonia of different modern writers. Other portions will be in the earlier stage of this affection, that is to say, a grey or pinkish grey hepatization, with the characters of simple catarrhal pneumonia, said to be the “grey tubercular infiltration" of Laennec; and again there will be firm oedema or gelatinous infiltration. The three conditions just mentioned are the three stages olae- "enorativo or caseous pneumonia; the same affection which, here found alone, accompanies the production of tubercles in chrome phthisis. The yellow colour of the last stage is due to fatty de- generation of the catarrhal products contained in the alveoli. Inis disease is usually lobular, or develops from broncho-pneumonia, but is said to develop from lobar pneumonia also. The disease