68 CAUSES OF HAEMORRHAGE. and fibrine than the liq. sanguinis. Valentin, having made an albuminous solution of a certain specific gravity, placed it on a filter of stretched serous membrane; and, on examining the fluid which passed through, he found the specific gravity reduced—that is to say, some of the albumen was left behind. It is probable, and seems proved by pathological experience, that increase of the pressure upon the fluid causes it to transude in a less altered state, so that this, whether it be a vis a ter go, from increased cardiac impulse, or caused by an obstruction in the onward direction, must be one cause of an effusion containing much albumen and fibrine also. But the common watery and mucous effusions, which constitute such fluxes as those of leucorrhcea and bronchorrhcna, contain little, if any, albumen, and no fibrine, and are chiefly remarkable by the quantity of their aqueous and saline contents. The same may be said also of the intestinal and cutaneous fluxes that take place in phthisis, and in other exhausting diseases.* In all these it seems certain that the natural filtering power of the walls of the vessels is changed in such a way that they allow the aqueous and saline part of the blood to transude with extreme rapidity. At the same time the crasis of the blood itself is altered; it turns, as the popular phrase is, to water—i.e., its corpuscles and its organic matters are not formed in due proportion; but, on the contrary, waste and diminish, so that the colliquative discharges from the tissues are promoted, and kept up by the (as it were) deliquescing blood. It is interesting to observe that the filtrating property of the vascular membrane is capable of being influenced through the nervous system. Thus, after a fit of hysteria, a quantity of limpid aqueous urine is passed, much more than would have been voided had no such event occurred. This must depend upon an alteration of the condition of the Malpighian tufts, and perhaps of the capillaries of the tubular venous plexus. We have noticed something of the same kind after a small dose of opium. Almost the only instances of fluxes taking place from glands, with which we are acquainted, are those which the kidneys _ afford. That of diabetes depends, as is well known, upon a diuretic sub- stance, sugar circulating in the blood, and not undergoing the decomposition which it should normally. Discharges, such as those of chronic bronchitis, or ehronic dysentery, which were, in their commencement, of truly inflammatory nature, but after- wards become more of the nature of fluxes, often contain a very large amount of muco-purulent matter, and cause a proportionally severe drain on the system. These, however, do not present the hydncmic condition of the general system, before alluded to. Passive Dropsy.—Passive dropsies are the commonest of all ; all the cardiac dropsies, and most of the renal that we meet with are of this kind. Their very aspect excludes the idea of increased * Simon states that he failed in detecting any certain indications of albumen in the sweat collected (by means of linen washed with distilled water) from the breast of a person in the colliquative stago of tubercular phthisis.