INFLAMMATION. 85 ing and confirming the stasis, and determining its results, but we do not think they are the primary and causative phenomena. It seems to us a very important fact, which Mr. Wharton Jones states, and which we have observed ourselves, that “stagnation commences in the capillaries, and extends from them to the veins on the one hand, and the arteries on the other.” We have seen the blood stagnant in the capillaries, while it was moving on steadily through an adjacent artery and vein. This points to the capillaries as the part where the arrest commences. Again, it is a very important circumstance, that, if a strong stimulus be applied, the stasis takes place almost immediately: it seems as if the blood were suddenly coagulated in the capillaries. That in the healthy state the red corpuscles pass on so smoothly and uninterrupt- edly, within their even rela- tively narrow channels, that they shun, as is well known, the walls, and allow a thin layer of the fluid in which they float to intervene, while the colourless corpuscles show no such tendency, but affect -' c x a preference for the so-called _ , .. . , . , ,r wt. ^ T > , f,, , , , , Production of stasis from Mr. Wharton Jones’ Stlif layer, and move slowly Essay, Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi. p. 35. onwards in it; that there is decidedly a tendency of the red globules to aggregate together in blood drawn from the body, while this seems to be held in abeyance when the blood is within the vessels ; that the smallest capillaries, according to Wharton Jones, are traversed chiefly by plasma, and by a few colourless corpuscles, one after the other, with only a single red corpuscle now and then ; that the red and colourless corpuscles show no tendency to stick together,—appear to us very significant facts, which require some such hypothesis as that offered in Wharton Jones’ report, April, 1844, viz.: “That there exists some sort of attraction between the colourless corpuscles and the walls of the vessels, but an absence of attraction, if not a repulsion, between the red corpuscles and their walls, as also between the red and colourless corpuscles.” We have already (page 81) given reasons for rejecting the adhesiveness of the corpuscles themselves as the cause of stasis, and the determining cause must be one which acts by means of the vessels in which the blood is contained. It must, therefore, by some change either (1) in the walls of the vessels themselves’, (2) in the nerves acting through the vessels, or (3) in the sur- rounding tissues, altering their normal vital relations to the blood. It must, in fine, depend upon some derangement of the normal Fig. 7.