vesicular emphysema. 462 + “ Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxni. p. 37. but by tbe absorption of the partitions several may be thrown into one. The whole solid tissue of the lung is remarkably diminished, and at the same time very deeply pigmented. This condition is described by many authors simply as atrophy of the lung. . Causes of Emphysema.—The credit of offering the first rational explanation of asthma, and its connection with emphysema, is due to Dr. Floyer,* though the priority of the discovery is commonly attributed to Laennec. . . , The explanations which have been given in later times may be considered under two heads. In the first place it has been supposed that if the tissues are altered so as to lose their power of resistance, a normal pressure of air will cause excessive expansion. Mr. Eainey, in one of his interesting papers in the “ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, ’t Has attempted" to show that fatty degeneration of the walls of the air cells exists in emphysema, and that the over-distension^ is due to the weakening of these structures thus produced. Xo a priori objection can be brought against the reasonableness of this ex- planation. It is, however, opposed by the fact that atrophy and fatty degeneration are not found in early but in later stages of emphysema, and are thus to be regarded rather as a consequence than as a cause of that condition. In the second place it has been held that while the tissues are unchanged excess of pressure on the inner surface of the air vesicles will cause first over-distension, and afterwards atrophy of their walls, with all the other changes met with in emphysematous lungs. This cause is obviously sufncient if it can be shown to exist, and much ingenuity and research have been spent in showing how such an excess of pressure comes to exist in the whole lung or in particular parts of it. Some have supposed the excessive strain to occur during inspiration only, others during expiration. There can be little doubt that it may be produced by both movements. . The first inspiratory theory was that of Laennec. He attri- buted the chief influence to hindrances to the exit of air from the lungs, such as the pressure of mucus in the smaller bronchi, swelling of their mucous membrane, pressure of tumours or enlarged glands on the larger bronchi, &c. In all such cases he thought air would be freely drawn m during inspirabon but being unable to escape would accumulate behind the seat ol obstruction, while every successive inspiratory movement would increase the tension. Such a valve-like action is difficult ot com aSHSSiSSigillSsS aU',taB iS UfUa1’ substance of tbe lungs must appear always inflated.