535 INFLAMMATION OF THE BUCCAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. ] Fissure of the palate may be unilateral or bilateral, and combined or not with fissure of lip and jaw bone : it may affect the hard or more often the soft palate alone, or both. That of the hard palate i is on one or both sides of the vomer, never in the median line ; that of the soft palate always median. Some degree of this defect is not uncommon, and quite compatible with life. A similar fissure of the lower lip and lower jaw is very rare. 4. Mikrognatliia, or Brachi/gnathia, deficient development or - small size of the jaws, is a very rare defect, usually affecting the . lower jaw. 5. Synchelia, or Atresia oris, complete closure of the mouth by adhesion of the lips ; or a very small opening may be left. 6. Mikrostomia, smallness of the mouth, which is formed by i small, but naturally-disposed lips. 7. Achelia, Mikrochelia, deficiency or small size of the lips, which expose the teeth or gums. 8. Makrostomia, prolongation of the corners of the mouth on one or both sides through the cheeks in the direction of the ears. INFLAMMATION. The buccal mucous membrane shows but little tendency to be . affected by catarrhal inflammation ; it is, however, often inflamed in one or more spots from some local irritation, or morbid action. ■ -Thus a carious tooth, a piece of diseased bone, a crop of herpetic ■ vesicles, will excite inflammation in their vicinity. In adults, gene- ral inflammation of the mucous membrane is sometimes produced by the abuse or excessive action of mercury, and shows a marked tendency to pass into a state of ulceration and sloughing. Nitrate of silver, iodide of potassium, and probably other drugs, may ha ve a similar effect. Mr. Tomes mentions the occasional occurrence of spontaneous * salvation, with considerable inflammation of the gums. Chronic ; filpamfaiation of the gums is not uncommon, and has appeared to us sometimes to be of a rheumatic origin. It may extend over the whole mouth, or be confined to the vicinity of two or three ■teeth. “The surface of the gums,” Mr. Tomes says, “becomes minutely nodulated; and the secretion of epithelium increased ; the papillae are increased in prominence, while the substance of the gum is generally thickened, and the edges about the teeth become thick and round.” ano^er form of so-called chronic inflammation, the gum lather decreases in size, and “ assumes a very smooth and polishod surface and mottled aspectthe hard palate also becomes impli- oated, and there is acute intermittent pain. Ulcerations often form n the gums as well as on other parts of the mucous membrane of ne buccal cavity; they are sometimos simple aphtha;, sometimes mall, round, slightly excavated, and without any surrounding