448 BRONCHITIS. arborescent or pnnctiform injection in the bronchi, which is seen in inflammations of other mucous membranes, as that of the stomach. Sometimes the affection resides exclusively in the larger bronchi, is fading off in the smaller divisions; at others it occupies the reverse t Fig. 99. relation ; the danger to the individual increasing with the number: of small tubes affected; the tumefaction and loss of elasticity in which, necessarily exert a great influence in producing dyspnoea. The actual sense of the difficulty of breathing, as well as the real. absence of proper aeration of the blood, shown by the lividity of the patient, has • appeared to us to be greater in these? cases of capillary bronchitis than in pneumonia. The more asthenic the form of bronchitis, the more the redness • of the bronchial mucous membrane ap- ■ proaches a livid purplish tint; it is generally found of this hue in the chronic forms. The secretions will vary accord- ■ ing to the stage and character of the s disease, from a viscid glazy mucus, to a . genuine purulent discharge of a more or less diffluent character. Occasionally, death is the result of a sudden effusion : of liquid into the bronchi, constituting : what is called suffocative catarrh, which is met with more frequently in the infant t than in the adult. Long-continued purulent expectoration may, however, have existed during life, without any appreciable lesion being discovered after death; in these cases, the bronchial l mucous membrane, as Andral* observes, need not even present a trace of redness. . In examining the lungs we must be careful to compare different portions, before arriving at definite conclusions; for it is often difficult to determine to which part the fluids belong which exude on section. The surest way to ascertain the state of the parietes and contents of the bronchi, is to follow them from the larger trunks with a pair of scissors, being careful not to admit more extraneous matter into the tubes than we can help. Plastic Bronchitis; Bronchial Polypi.—True croupy inflammation I may affect the bronchi, as it does the upper respiratory passages, though it is met with less frequently ; complete moulds of portions of the bronchial tree present themselves to us ; the influence they exert upon respiration depends partly upon the obstruction they j themselves offer, and partly upon the tumefaction of the subjacen i mucous membrane. * “ Precis d’Anatomic Pathologique,” vol. ii. p. 481. Injection and stasis in the vessels of the bronchial mucous membrane, in bronchitis, seen by a low power. The vessels were disposed in longitudinal clusters united by transverse inosculations.