GANGRENE. 110 less dense than natural. Afterwards the covering of the vesicle is detached, the fluid escapes, and the tissue beneath, appears still more lax and spongy, and has evidently undergone loss of substance. The hypereemia persists. In this case we feel little doubt that the deliquescing tissue is partly thrown off in the fluid which escapes from the vesicle, partly absorbed by the blood- vessels. _ _ . It seems desirable to indicate the difference which exists between, ulceration and absorption. In both there may he considerable loss of substance at some one or more points of the part affected, but in ulceration there is always an unhealthy state of the nutrition of the tissue, there is disease of it; in absorption this is not the case; the part may be diminished, but cannot be said to be diseased. Contrast a bone, carious and ulcerated from inflammation, with one which has undergone absorption, in consequence of the pressure of an aneurism. . Gangrene.—The last result of inflammation which we have to mention is Gangrene, or Mortification. This, indeed, is not a very common termination, nor is it at all peculiar to the inflammatory process. It more really belongs to a deficient condition of vital power induced by various causes, which may of itself be the cause of the death of some part, or render it so feeble that it perishes under injurious influences which would otherwise have had no such effect. Gangrene may ensue from the following causes. (1 ft om an absolute and prolonged stagnation of the blood; (2) from a defective supply of blood; (3) from a general taint or unhealthy crasis of the mass of the blood; (4) from a local injury. The absolute stagnation of the blood in the first case may be the result of violent inflammation, especially of an asthenic kind, and occur- ring in debilitated systems and organs; or it may be brought about mechanically, as when a portion of intestine is strangulated. Bokitansky says, that in this case the blood stagnant m the vessels first undergoes gangrenous decomposition, and that exuding through their walls in the state of gangrenous ichor, it sets up the same decomposing change in the surrounding tissues, which break up into a dark-coloured pulp, of as little consistence as tinder—diffluent, and excessively stinking. In the second case, besides various kinds of obstruction of the arteries from excemal pressure, their channels may be blocked up by extensive fibrinous coagula, either forming spontaneously or inconsequence of disease of the coats of the vessels. They may again be plugged by blocks (embuli) transported from a distance. Gangrene occurring m aged persons, without any apparent cause, and that fioni t t use o s eased grain and hospital gangrene, are instances m which the mor bid action is dependent on a general taint of the blood, or ecay 0 whole system. Mr. Simon suggests that the mode m which ergot of rye produces its fatal effect may be by causing such contraction ot tho blood-vessels as prevents the flow of blood into the more * ' parts, which consequently fall into the condition ot di) gangren