393 THROMBOSIS. and a familiar instance is the binding of the arm after the opera- ■ fron of venesection. Pressure of tumours, inflammatory or indura- • five growths, abnormal pressure of the viscera themselves, as the • P^'10 Viscera in females, or the abdominal organs in either sex, often lead to coagulation in the deep pelvic and abdominal ■ y0111®' -Dilatation or a varicose condition of the veins, by retard- 1 the current may have the same effect. Other morbid concli- ! - ns tbo walls are> in the case of veins, of very subordinate ?i !?C6' • b)lsease> especially inflammation in the organs from ' Y^10!1 the vems anso, frequently causes coagulation. The most familiar instances are thrombosis of the renal veins in cases of bright s disease of the kidneys, and of the uterine or other veins in inflammation of the uterus or its appendages. Inflammation of the tissues surrounding a vein, or of the wall of the vein itself, is • not less likely to produce the same result. Finally, we must not omit to point out a possible occurrence, once thought to be fi-e- viz-’ the entrance into "matter * ™6 COntents of aa abscess or other collection of morbid In afr cases of thrombosis, the extension of coagulation to con- 1RUSt disregarded. Thus thrombosis of a ^vfryi Tem leaC-‘S firSt t0 a Pr°jection of the clot into the cavitj of the larger vein into which it opens, and then to the Et^btT^r TUnd °f aaother clot which may finally com- 1 P1 tely block the larger vessel. Thrombi which block up the ten0^8 USrIly arise in tbis way- Moreover, obftr'uc- n ,■ aU arteryby. whatever cause produced, may lead to coagu- SpSSZff1' - «• h»TArtTlT8Af ^^--Coagulation of blood in the arteries may or some'fdber nf VOm8 by pressure’ by feebleness of circulation, out irtdcb ^P, the causes, special or general, acting from with- monlvi ft Z mentioned in the case of veins; but more com- If we 1 p-i vp d fcerrauied P/ the condition of the arterial waU itself, queme o/pX 1°f COasideratloa the thrombosis which is a conse- mp r , sm’ tbls 1S, in fact, by far the most frequent cause, of which I t Pr°CeSf °f G;hr<ailc iadammation or atheroma, irterial wohSpoken, ekiewhcre, the inner surface of the the vciel as a w" T8?’ ^ acts uPon. the blood contained in iviv nro L, -, i f ’ , body and causes its coagulation. In this idherfto hS }arg6r prten!f isolated masses of clot, which micro t° the walls. In smaller arteries it will be likelv fo JueutU^in^l^0*1011 ’ a result which may obviously occur subse-