CONDITION OF THE BRAIN IN INSANITY. 285 ! division of their nuclei, oedema, and hardening, accompanied by -enlargement of the cells themselves, with final molecular decay, i and atrophy. * J ’ Drs. Take and Rutherford,! in an analysis of the morbid appear- Lances.in the brains of thirty insane persons, found in eighteen ceases increase of connective tissue (grey degeneration or sclerosis), -which they regard as proceeding from the neuroglia. They also ■ describe the occurrence of cavities sometimes as much as -3-inch in ildiameter. 5 0 Changes in the Brain in General Paralysis.—One form of insanity, kknown as general paralysis of the insane, has been made the -subject of a very large number of pathologico-anatomical investi- gations, and it has often been thought that some lesion had been udiscovered which could account for the disease. Adhesion of the meninges to the cortical substance of the brain -was first thought to be the clearest pathognomonic sign of the ddisease ; then softening of the cortical substance, and its easy - separation, or splitting into layers, was regarded as the criterion • induration of the white substance also had its defenders; and other observers attached very great importance to a granular and sandy condition of the inner surface of the cerebral ventricles. - here is, however, no one of these characters which is not met To- Yl0I' U( conditions of the brain, associated with very different diseases. Certain morbid conditions, supposed to occur m the cerebellum, are even less constant and important. When the microscope came to be applied to the investigation of the brain other changes began to be signalized. Rokitansky was the first to au iricrease ir| the connective tissue or neuroglia, miain nn'f; thiV°r!i!X’ an,d 118 observations have been in the mrra,^,rm Tiby °Bhei'S Wh° Hav? used yeiT different methods of /[he ^ango 18 no*, however, confined to the brain ; 15’ °n ,the other ^nd, found m a more advanced stage in the ' brain anTt fi>PeaBSBti0 f^fnd itself by ascending progress to the at a h'i.b dp P1' r w no? mdely distributed, or arrived 8vmnm fe%eif evolution, this change may produce hardly any bS Tp 1rhe 0rdel;r WL11Cb 14 attacks first the spine, then the i S’e S"617 Wlth the symptoms of general paralysis, the np Jp chronic increase of the neuroglia, certain changes in have been observed; they are described by d«t h lC af ei aS nodoiy pigmented ; but this phenomenon Cb v! t\ PP r't0 constant. In one case examined bV Dr the R • h° notlces the occurrence of small cavities in all parts of !h ‘°me "1 ■»¥»&. others with'SglS iee°n W f Y a,PP$:ar to corresPond precisely with what have been een by several observers, and very variously interpreted. They ftlr Psychiatrie,” 18G8. Medicin fltr 1868,” vol. ii. p. 19 „ Bain, Med. Joum.,” Oct, 1869, p. 289. * Journal of Mental Science,” Jan., 1870. Heft 3 and 4; quoted in “ Jahrea