802 EXTEA-UTERINE EEEGXAXCY. being due to the umbilical cord being twisted round it, and not, as has been suggested by others, to gangrene, or the accidental formation of ligamentous bands. He expresses his conviction that many of the cases of apparent arrest of development may be set down to this cause, the amputated member not having been found, either from its being atrophied or buried in coagula, and from the separation having been effected at the early stages of pregnancy. Numerous observations are recorded by authors, evidencing the occurrence of the inflammatory process in the foetal viscera. Peritonitis, with its various sequelae j gastro-enteritis, followed by ulceration; inflammatory lesions of the liver, pneumonia, and pleurisy; abscesses in the lungs, the thymus, thyroid glands, and supra-renal capsules; and pericarditis ; have each been proved to occur in the foetus, by Desormeaux, Billard, Simpson, Cruveilhier, Montgomery, and other pathologists, to whose works we must refer for further particulars. The same applies to the various cutaneous affections of a syphilitic or other character. Nor is it compatible with our limits to do more than allude to the endless varieties of monstrosities which, from the causes mentioned, or from reasons to which pathology offers no clue, affect the unborn child. EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. Five varieties of extra-uterine pregnancy are assumed to occur— in the Fallopian tubes, in the walls of the uterus, in the ovaries, in the peritoneal cavity, and in the vagina. We have not met with a well-authenticated instance of the last form, and the occur- rence of ovarian pregnancy has also been denied by authorities like Velpeau and Kilian. The danger to mother and child is almost equal in each variety; in fact,, there is only one case on record in which both have survived; this was one of peritoneal or abdominal pregnancy, which occurred to Dr. P. L. Heim, and in which the Caesarean section was successfully performed.* The accident most frequently met with is the Fallopian tube pregnancy. In this case the ovum is arrested in its descent into the uterus, and the process of growth and development progresses as if it had reached its proper nidus, up to the period of its discharge. The cause of this stoppage appears to be obstruction in the tube, which is not so great as to prevent the entrance of semen, but does prevent the descent of the ovum. The tube is distended, and its walls become hypertrophied ; the changes in the maternal system, though sometimes accompanied by certain anomalous symptoms, are those met in ordinary pregnancy; there is general turgescence of the mamma) and the uterus, and in the latter organ it has long been taught that a decidua is formed, as if it contained the foetus. • Rust’s “ Mngazin fur die gesammtfi Heilkunde,” voi. iii. 1817.