6G9 HYPEMMIA OF THE KIDNEY. Fro. 151. ■with. No simultaneous hypertrophy of both kidneys, without disease, has been observed. Atrophy is the ultimate consequence of several diseases, which will be spoken of hereafter, but also occurs in the course of senile decay, more constantly than atrophy of almost any other organ except the spleen. This condition appears to be always connected with thickening and obstruction of the arteries. This senile atrophy of the kidney is extremely difficult to distinguish from granular atrophy dependent on disease. Hyperasmia.—This condition of the kidney is of frequent occur- rence, but is almost always the result of some prior general affection, as of obstructive dis- ease of the heart, or the arrest of the cutaneous transpiration. We shall describe an extreme case, to convey an idea of the state of congestion that may often be inferred on good ground to exist, and shall hereafter refer to it as the commencement of other affections. The kidney is enlarged, its weight often doubled; it is of dark red colour, and drips with blood when cut into. The cortical substance, the medullary cones, the mucous lining of the calyces and pelvis, are all much congested. The former is somewhat softened, of a dark-red colour, and presents in many cases small dark-red spots, which are the result of haemor- rhage into and between the tubes. The Malpighian tufts are also distinctly seen as minute, reddish, sub-transparent grains, prominent on the cut surface. In the medullary cones, the congested vessels form long dark-red streaks. A somewhat turbid sanguineous fluid is contained in the injected calyces and pelvis. The capsule, if the hyperaemia has befallen a healthy kidney, can be peeled off readily. Micro- scopy shows the Malpighian and other capillaries loaded with blood, extravasation sometimes into the capsule of the former, and often into the channel of the tubes. In a typical case no other alteration would be visible, but it is scarcely conceivable that the hypersemia should proceed to any great degree without exudation of fibrinous fluid taking place, which is then seen having coagulated in the tubes, forming casts of their interior, and Heemorrhage into Malpig. capsules compressing the tufts. Fin. 152.