INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 828 peculiarities. It is usual to classify the varieties of inflammation according to the part of bone affected—as ostitis, osteomyelitis, and periostitis ; the first denoting inflammation of the compact bony tissue ; the second specially referring to the medulla and cancellous parts of hone ; the last not only inflammation of the periosteum, but of what is practically almost inseparable from this, the contiguous part of the bone. Moreover, in each part of bone the inflammation may take one of two types ; it is either plastic, which in this case means tending to ossification and induration (sclerosis); or else destructive, that is generally suppurative (abscess); hut each of these passes through the same preliminary stage, now to be described. Earefactive Inflammation.—This variety or stage of inflammation is marked by absorption or rarefaction of the bone. Most pathologists regard the process of rarefaction as the necessary pre- liminary to either of the others. It appears to be strictly analogous to the physiological process by which the medullary cavity is hollowed out, and spongy, cancellated bone formed. The first appreciable inflammatory changes in bone, to use Mr. Groodsir’s words, “occur within the Haversian canals; these passages dilate, or become opened up, as may be seen on the surface of an inflamed bone, or better in a section. The result oi this enlargement of the canals is the conversion of contiguous canals into one cavity, and the consequent removal or absorption of the osseous texture of the part.” The whole tissue, conse- quently, becomes much lighter and more porous. The spaces formed by the enlarged canals, as also those formed, by absorp- tion of the intermediate material, become filled with granular tissue, composed chiefly of .embryonic cells. The further course of the inflammation depends upon whether these cells become formative cells (osteoblasts), or whether they degenerate into pus The naked-eye appearance of the bone in this condition is thus described by Mr. Holmes: * “ When the periosteum is stripped oil, the bone is seen to be irregularly vascular, some portions having a slightly red tint, evidently caused by the enlargement of the vessels which pass from the periosteum into the bone; and, with a magnifying-glass, tlie increased size of tlie vascular apertures is easily proved, while, if pressure be made on the surface of the bone, drops of blood will frequently ooze from the mouths of the enlarged vessels, proving their increase in size, as well as the loss of con- sistence in the outer hard wall of the bone.” Less obvious changes are perceived in the central parts of the bone. The spaces produce by absorption of the walls of the Haversian canals at length, how- ever, become visible to the naked eye, and spaces are seen m t e compact tissue like those in cancellous tissue, so that it is some- times said to become cancellous. Similar changes occui m e * “ System of Surgery,” 2nd edition, 1870, vol. iii. p. 733.