785 CANCER OF THE MAMMA. jeet of numerous histological investigations. Nevertheless, its anatomy and history are hy no means clearly made out; they have sometimes been confounded with simple hypertrophy. The new growth forms a nodular lobulated mass, of elastic or hard con- sistency, involving a larger or smaller part of the mammary gland ; usually solitary, hut sometimes multiple, and affecting com- monly only one breast. It grows very slowly, and rarely ulcerates. The structure of these tumours is complicated, consisting partly of solid sarcomatous tissue, partly of cysts, and partly of glandular tissue. The solid tissue is plainly an outgrowth of the fibrous tissue, which forms an important constituent of the mamma, especially in early life. It consists of sarcomatous tissue ; that is of round or spindle cells, with a considerable amount of inter- cellular substance and fibre. According to Billroth this is the essential part of the tumour. Portions of glandular structure, both acini and excretory ducts are also seen, and it has been generally thought that part, at least, of this is newly formed gland-tissue; so that the tumour must be called a glandular tumour, or adenoma (p. 152). Billroth, however, contends that the gland structure is nothing but the remains of the normal gland ; though he admits that the hypertrophy of the matrix must entail some enlargement of the acini. The usual appearance is to find slits, or very narrow ramified cavities, lined with cylindrical epithelium—an appearance which may be explained by compression of the acini, but also, as we shall see, otherwise. The cysts vary in size, some being micro- scopic, and appear to be formed by dilatation of the acini, from an obstruction of their outlets. They are lined with cylindrical epithelium, and contain serous or mucous fluid. Yery often these cysts are complicated by proliferating growth into their interior, which may almost fill the cavity, and thus give rise to some of the narrow ramified cavities, lined with epithelium, above described. The minute cysts in the stroma, no doubt, go on multiplying and increasing in size till a very complicated structure results. In fine, we must think that there is in these tumours a new pro- duction, both of glandular tissue and of stroma, though one may often preponderate over the other. CANCER OF THE MAMMA. Cancer affects the breast more frequently than any other organ of the body. All the varieties of carcinoma have been met with here; scirrhus is, however, by far the most frequent form in which it occurs primarily. The encephaloid variety may be primary, but is more commonly engrafted upon the former; tho colloid form is the most rare. When associated with other cancers, that of the mamma is stated by Dr. Walshe to be invariably primary, except in those rare instances when the disease spreads from the lymphatic glands or superjacent skin. 3 E