182 GENERAL REMARKS ON CANCER. physical characters, and not by their living actions, amounts to this:—If a tumour, on being incised and compressed, yield a whitish, milky juice (the so-called “sue cancereux”), it is probably cancerous; we have, however, failed to obtain this sign from actual encephaloid. If the cell-growth of a tumour is what may be called exceedingly multiform, i.e., one particle unlike another, the field of view being filled with utter varieties of shape and construction, there arises a strong presumption that the structure is cancerous. If a tumour consist of an abundant cell-growth lying in the alveoli of a fibrous stroma of slight consistence, it so far bears a close resemblance to encephaloid. There are, how- ever, scirrhous tumours (of the breast) in which the cellular elements occupy a very subordinate position, but the alveolar structure will even here be an important criterion. An epithelial character of the cells, that is, their being fiat, angular from mutual pressure, and closely packed without intercellular sub- stance, has been thought by recent observers, especially in Ger- many, to be an important distinction of cancer as contrasted with sarcoma, and the absence of intercellular substance is also a character of some weight. The above characters will serve in the great majority of cases to distinguish anatomically the group of cancers, a group, as we have said, by no means co-extensive with malignant tumours, although the most certainly malignant. The characters of sarcomatous tumours, which stand next in order of malignancy, we need not recapitulate, except to insist upon the importance of the presence of an intercellular substance, regarded as a positive character, though it may be difficult to see except in a hardened specimen. If a tumour can be satisfactorily referred to this group, we know that it is extremely likely to recur, and may very probably be truly malignant. If finally, we find the tumour to possess the characters of some simple tissue of the body, we know that recurrence, or any form of malignancy, is as excep- tional as the opposite qualities are exceptional in the case of the typical cancers. Scale of Malignancy—In concluding these general remarks, we may state, we think, the following position with some confidence, viz. that, starting from encephaloid as the representative of cancer par'excellence, we find the malignant character gradually declin- ing as we pass through a series of formations, such as we have above described,’ until we come to those of whose innocent nature there is no question. The exact limit, we believe, at which malig- nancy is lost cannot be distinguished by any clear line, any more than in natural history we can separate absolutely animals Irom plants, or in chemistry we can make a positive distinction between the metals and the non-mctallic elements. Such a scale we have attempted to represent in the following table :