312 NEUROMA. Eio. 76. Of the morbid growths found in nerves, the so-called neuroma is the most common. Two kinds of nerve tumours must, however, be distinguished; the so-called true and false neuroma, the former containing true nervous tissue, while the latter is merely a tumour of some kind in connection with a nerve. The true neuromata may be composed of white medullated nerve fibres (neuroma myelinicum of Virchow) or of grey non-medullated fibres (neuroma amyelini- cum). The latter are extremely difficult to distinguish from ordinary fibrous tumours, and were first separated from them by Virchow.* There is no doubt that the greater number of tumours occurring on nerves are not composed of nervous tissue. At the extremities of the nerves in stumps after amputa- tion of limbs, bulbous enlarge- ments are formed, which are genuine new growths of nerv- ous tissue. (J?ig. 76.) On careful microscopical examin- ation, the swellings are found to consist of a plexus of white nerve fibres with double out- line. t Similar outgrowths are met with as the consequence of ligature of or injury to the nerve. Tho nerve swellings of stumps after amputation may attain the size of a bullet or plum. True neuromata unconnected with division or injury of the nerve are very rare, and it must remain doubtful, from the de- scriptions givon, whether some cases belong to this class or to that of false neuromata. They are often multiple, and sometimes occur in immense numbers on almost every nerve of the body. The spinal nerves are chiefly affected, but instances are known in connection with cranial nerves. Only the optic and olfactory nerves seem to A stump of the upper extremity, show- ing: the bulbous termination of the median, internal cutaneous, musculo-spiral, and rousculo-cutaneous nervous; the circum- flex pas-es behind the teres major and its termination is not seen. (From St. George's Museum, a. 35.) * “ Archiv,” 1858, Bd. xiii. s. 263. Also “Die KxanMraftcn Geschwillste,** Bd. iii. s. 2^3-305, from which great part of this section on Neuroma is derived t See figure in Virchow, op. cit. vol. iii. p. 253, tig. 227.