CHAPTER XII. THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMISRANES. 1 We must commence this section with the ungratifying confession, : that it is a subject upon which our knowledge is very limited. - At present, we can scarcely be said to have advanced beyond the 1 very threshold of this department of science. We shall follow the same order we adopted in treating of the 1 morbid anatomy of the brain, and examine successively the post- . mortem appearances of the dura mater, the arachnoid, and pia mater, and then oi the cord itself. In all cadaveric examinations of the spinal column, it is particularly to be borne in mind, that 1 position of the body after death may influence the post-mortem phenomena, independently of morbid action, owing to the gravi- tation of the fluids to the depending portions, and their secondary » ®“ect uPon the nerve tissues. How important it is to attend to this point is illustrated by some observations, made by Mr. | Ceiling, of tetanic cases. On examining the body of a man who •i had died of tetanus, which had been placed on its face immediately a after death, Mr. Curling found that part of the pia mater covering the anterior columns of the medulla spinalis remarkably vascular ; a circumstance which would necessarily induce a conviction iu the mind ot the pathologist, that an essential lesion had been dis- [ covered, by which the exaltation of motor action could be satis- factorily explained. Unfortunately for the conclusive force of the I 'observation, in three other instances, where the bodies were [ suffered to remain in the usual position, the vessels on the pos- ' h-nor parts only wore observed to be turgid. Bus influence of position is more likely to affect the spinal cord than the brain, owing to its being less excluded from atmo- ! T/inC a«ency- is also important to remember, tbattho relation 1 envelopes of the cord differs from that existing between the investments of the brain and their contents in various material points. The movements of tho osseous case of the cord would nave rendered a close adhesion with the membranes a source of • On “ Tetanus,” p. 48. U