I’Y.DMIA AND SEI'TIC.DMIA. 116 extent. Hemorrhage, or ecchymosis, is a direct consequence of capillary obstruction, when the embolic material is of such a nature as to injure the vascular wall. Thus Felts, in experiments on living animals, saw a haemorrhagic patch actually forming, in consequence of the obstruction and injury of capillaries by injected SUSttleChas been done to explain the origin of inflammations in ioints and serous membranes. . . , , ±, * J properties of the Venous Clots.— Supposing that the matter of decomposing clots does pass into the circulation, and produce the results just described, we still have to inquire how the clots come to break down, and how they have infective> pro- perties which certainly do not belong to all crumbling fibnn. It has’been found, as a matter of fact, that the coagula are readily formed, and do readily break down m veins which are surrounded by tissues in a state of inflammation, but espec-ally when this is an unhealthy or “ septic ” inflammation. These results have been attributed to inflammation of the vein, or to the infiltration through its walls of some poisonous substance de- rived from the inflamed parts, or even to the passage of leucocytes through the walls. At all events the softening is not very different funi that which occurs in other situations for instance, in the £e"t) toughitAppears to be more rapid The mfechre pro- j• '* p i-l„ plots are however, a matter of demonstration , and °rzrth °r th‘ r^eX^S^Mdemed.bat to* ® , • j. tiint the small veins are not always carefully ex J ^d vet such a v“in is extremely likely to he the starring- amT^V t^ disease Again, many cases of pyaemia start from point of tl > , }iard to trace. The occurrence of some hone, and veins m bone> are ha t,tz probable, hv the fact “Stwlo reject the emboHc theory or hod it iumOfeifc h«« inose wn j acquires from the entrance into it of sonic supposed that the bloc A infl;lmed parts the properly of poisonous mattei aerive property explains the . There arc doubtless other ohanp<» whioh j the primary disease : off., o«te^myeUUs ^“'fthe Dro diseaJei as almost eon- injuries, that some military surgeons }iauj sp° v]i d to he one of the parts which