INTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTERIC FEVER. 589 tion, which ends in the formation and throwing off of the false membrane, after which there is a pause. The quantity of the exudation varies much in different cases: sometimes it forms a layer of some thickness, extending pretty uniformly over the sur- face, or appearing in the stools as tubular casts of the intestines; sometimes it is as thin as a wafer, or consists merely of tattered shreds. In one case mentioned by Dr. Copland there were also shreds of dysmenorrhoeal false membrane discharged from the uterus, but not at the same time as those from the bowels. Boki- tansky mentions the occurrence of less consistent fibrinous exuda- tions, which probably approach more or less closely to those of diphtheritis. They are. as he observes, “ the expression of a con- stitutional affection,” the results of an altered blood crasis. Such affections are commoner in children than in adults, but are always rare. False membranes, similar in appearance, are sometimes formed in dysentery a disease, which will be spoken of hereafter. The appearances just described are not known to occur in cases of ordinary diphtheria (of the throat), but swelling of the solitary and Peyer’s glands in the ileum has been observed in that disease. INTESTINAL AFFECTION IN ENTERIC FEVER. The changes which take place in the intestinal mucous mem- brane in continued fevers have been most diligently examined, and minutely described by Bokitansky and others, but our limits forbid us to do more than give a short and comprehensive account of the series of morbid changes occurring in typihoid or enteric fever. We observe the following series of changes :—. Hvper,%‘mia to a greater or less extent is set up around the solitary follicles, and^ in and around Peyer’s patches. Enlargement and distension of these glandular structures proceed nearly pari passu vuth the hypertemic congestion. After a certain time, the length of which varies in different cases, the contents of the enlarged glandular masses soften, break down, and are discharged. The cavity which remains on the mucous surface, constitutes the typhoid ulcer, to which Bokitansky attributes the following character:— (1) Its form is elliptical, round, or irregular, and sinuous, accord- ing to the shape of the part which has been affected. Thus, a largo patch, when destroyed, gives rise to an elliptical ulcer; a smaller or solitary gland to a round one; partial destruction of a patch will produce an irregular ulcer. (2) The size of the ulcer varies from that of a hemp-seed to that of a half-crown. (3) those of an elliptic shape are A»ys situated opposite to the inser- tion of the mesentery, and have their long axis parallel to that of J,n“?stlne- The typhoid ulcer very rarely indeed forms a zone, v|ne margin of the ulcer is invariably formed by a well- defined fringe of raucous membrane, which is a line or more wide detached, freely moveable, of a blueish red, and subsequently of a