615 CONGESTION'. the lower margins of both lobes are simply compressed and approxi- mated, so that the whole organ becomes bluntJy conical or almost heart-shaped. These changes are now scarcely seen, except in the bodies of old women. In men the practice of wearing a tight waist-belt may produce a broad white band, with thickening of the capsule, passing hori- zontally across both lobes. CONGESTION. The vascular apparatus of the liver is very large, its capillaries are more capacious than those of most other parts, and the calibre of the portal and especially of the hepatic veins is extremely ample. It is, therefore, capable of containing a very large quantity of blood. Though its surface is closely invested by its capsule, yet this membrane allows of a good deal of distension, and this is also attested by the tortuosities of the arterioles of the surface, which probably exist for the purpose of allowing the vessels to be elongated without injury to their texture. Congestion of the liver may be general or partial. The latter is far the more common condition, and, indeed, in its lower degrees is not morbid. The central parts of the lobules, in perfectly healthy livers, are often seen to be marked by a spot of redness which occupies about the middle two-fourths of the whole diameter. This is produced by the blood, as the circulation gradually failed, having stagnated in the hepatic veins, in their radicles, the intra-lobular veins, and the surrounding capillaries also. Mr. Kiernan named this, “ Hepatic Venous Congestion of the first degree.” When the congestion ex- tends further in the direction backwards, there are seen no longer mere spots of redness, but patches of very irregular shape surrounding, more or less completely, portions that are not con- gested. These portions are situated at the interlobular spaces, where three or more lobules adjoin. Such a condition was named by Mr.^ Kiernan, “ Hepatic Venous Congestion of the second degree.” This may coexist with a perfectly healthy condition of the cells which occupy the meshes of the capillary plexus, hut not unfrequently these are variously altered, and thus give rise to some modification of the appearance. The appearance of the liver greatly depends upon contrast between the central and peripheral portions ot the lobules. This is most marked in the so-called nutmeg ” condition. Conaeguencea of Congestion.—Congestion of the liver, although extreme, does not seem to occasion any structural change, if it is only temporary ; but, if, as in the case of obstructive cardiac dis- ease, it results from a permanent cause, and is, consequently itseii permanent, it produces tho following effects. The distended capillaries, especially the hepatic portion, press on the inter- vening cells; these become, in part, atrophied or stunted—in