CABIES. 837 the ulcerated spot, leading to condensation of the deeper parts of the hone, and to periosteal deposit of bone on the surface. This is only seen in healthy or sthenic inflammations. Central caries in spongy bone begins with hyperEemia of the medulla, wasting of its adipose tissue, and production of pus corpuscles, but not in very great number, till a brownish red pulp is formed, and by absorption of the trabeculse, an excavation; which is distinguished from an abscess by not containing true pus. The process may then extend outwards, layer by layer, till the whole bon9 is destroyed (Forster). Granulations are sometimes formed which assist the absorption, or it may pass into actual suppuration. Necrosis may accompany either form of caries ; if on the surface, small fragments of dead bone are shed off; if in the substance, sometimes a larger necrotic portion is found in the middle of the carious mass. The surface, if exposed to the air, is often blackened. Caries affects particularly the cancellous bones, as the vertebrae, the epiphyses of long bones, the bones of the hands and feet; but the cranial bones are sometimes affected. It is almost always a chronic process, but some very rapid, almost gangrenous cases, have been called phagedenic caries. The effects of caries on the bones are very obvious in macerated specimens. The external shell is either destroyed, excavated, or perforated, the cancellated tissue rarefied, its partitions attenuated, and larger or smaller cavities formed, so that the whole has a ragged appearance. Sometimes, in consequence of simultaneous enlargement, the appearance is very much that of osteoporosis. Outgrowths of bone are sometimes seen around the carious patches. Minute Changes in Caries.—In all cases of absorption of bone, the surface on which absorption is taking place will be found hollowed out in hemispherical or curved depressions—the lacuna) first described byHowship. More minute excavations, seen under the microscope, give a concave sinuous outline to the edge of a section. These hollows are filled during life with granulation- tissue, and to this the most recent observers assign the chief part in absorption of the bone. This view is supported by the fact that, not only dead bone, but plugs of ivory driven into living bone, may be partially excavated and absorbed, and that on the surface of these plugs similar excavations are seen. How granula- tions absorb bone, we do not know. Virchow rejects this explanation, though admitting the excava- tion of ivory plugs by some such means. He believes that caries consists in a breaking up of the bone into its cell-territories, i.e., portions depending on each bone cell, and softening of these territories individually, while the cells, both of the bone and the medulla, proliferate and take on a new development; the inter- cellular substance being cast off in fragments. The lacunae are formed by softening of successive cell-territories. The process is