DEGENERATIONS OP THE KIDNEY. GT7 centre. These appearances depend upon obstruction of capillaries or minute arteries; and in what way the obstruction produces haemorrhage is shown on page 116. Cohnheim objects to the term . capillary embolism, contending that small arteries are always obstructed. This is doubtless, in strictness of speech, true; but the phenomena are certainly different from those of obstruction of larger arterial branches. This process, though not necessarily pyaemia, may be a part of one form of that disease. (See mao '349.) Simple Degenerations of the Kidney,—Three well-marked condi- tions maybe called degeneration:-—-(1) Granular degeneration of' the epithelium, seen in acute febrile diseases, concurrently with a similar affection of the liver; (2) Fatty degeneration of the epithelium; (3) Lardaceous degeneration, affecting chiefly the blood-vessels. Fibroid degeneration or cirrhosis will be described under a dis- tinct head. Granular or Parenchymatous Degeneration.—The kidney is enlaiged, especially the cortical portion, smooth, and generallv pale, though perhaps with some spots of injection or ecchymosis Ihe cortical portion has a peculiar opacity and whitish clayey colour ^but is less opaque than in some cases of Bright’s disease); it is soft, and its appearance has been described as “ coarse- grained. The pyramids appear over-vascular but otherwise natural, so that there is a striking contrast between the two parts, ihe enlargement of the cortical portion depends upon the con- dition known as “cloudy swelling” of the epithelial elements characterized by positive increase in size, and by the great abund- ance of dark granules in their substance. The convoluted tubes will hence appear filled up with opaque masses, but do not necessarily contain any abnormal elements or substance. As the epithelium of the cortical tubes is normally somewhat gianular, and often slightly fatty, some experience is needed to recognize this condition, but in general the dark, opaque appear- ance of the tubes is sufficiently distinctive (see Fig. 156). The epithelium of the straight tubes in the pyramids (obtained bv squeezing till a milky drop appears on the papilla) is usuallv quite translucent and clear. No other changes are constantly CiSCIlu. “ This fonn of disease is met with in the same class of diseases as produce the similar condition of the liver (p. 628), and probablv occasions (though how we do not know) the albuminuria so often present m these diseases. It is thought by some pathologists to be the first stage of one of the varieties of Bright’s disease, or even to be in fact a mild or acute form of that disease. The condition must, however, m most cases be transitory; and if chronic disease be established, other features will be added, which alter the patho- logica! type. Phosphorus poisoning has been found to produce a similar degeneration of the renal epithelium. Scarlatina is also