CYANOSIS. 370 ventricular septum at all. Here there had been no cyanosis, although a thorough intermixture of the venous and arterial blood must have necessarily taken place. Bouillaud * is of opinion that the communication between the two sides of the heart, and the consequent admixture of the arterial and venous blood has, comparatively, little to do with the purple hue of the complexion, which he considers to result, mainly, from the coincident obstacle offered to the circulation by a malformation of tRe arterial orifices of the heart. The numerous cases on record in which not only the foramen ovale was patulous, hut in which there was further evidence of the actual passage of the blood, directly from one side of the heart to the other, shows, as Dr. Peacock t has remarked, that there is a want of just relation between the amount of venous blood entering the general circula- tion and the degree of cyanosis. The lesions that are found in connection with this symptom, consequently, require to be care- fully analyzed before we can determine the exact part that each bears in its production. They may shortly be enumerated as a patulous condition of the foramen ovale, from the valve not entirely covering the orifice (with which a defective involution of the Eustachian valve is commonly combined) permanent patency of the ductus arteriosus ; contraction of the systemic or pulmonary arterial orifices ; a deficiency in the inter-ventricular septum; and the malformation in which the aorta springs from both ventricles. . ' History and Symptoms.— Cyanosis is a disease which generally shows itself at or immediately after birth. The circumstance that it occasionally makes its appearance later in life has induced Meckel and Abernethy to assume that the foramen ovale may re- open, an hypothesis which is unnecessary, as we now know how frequently a communication exists between the auricles, without producing cyanosis, and that this lesion may, under certain cir- cumstances, as in diseased states of the lungs, induce a disturb- ance in the balance of the circulation, 'sufficient to force the blood through the auricular septum. Stress has been laid by several authors upon the circumstance that the fingers of cyanotic individuals are found clubbed. B e only advert to it to mention that it is by no means diagnostic of this form of heart-disease, or, in fact, of any distinct malady. A more important point is an observation with which Rokitansky concludes; his remarks on the subject, to the effect that cyanosis is incom- patible with tuberculosis, against which he states that it offers a complete protection. We do not deny that this is the prevail* rule vet it is not as absolute as the author quoted assorts. in the Report of the Pathological Society for 1848 (p. 200) we finfflB case presented by Dr. Peacock, which refutes the universality «; * “ Traitd Clinique,” «!cc., vol. ii 690, ct seq. + “Pathol. Reports,” 1818, p. 202.