ABNORMAL CONDITION’S OP THE INTESTINAL CONTENTS. 611 air with a part of its oxygen replaced by carbonic acid, and some hydrogen. In cancerous strictures of the pylorus, and in chronic catarrhal states, the gas contains but little oxygen, much carbonic acid (probably also hydrogen and carburetted hydrogen), and constantly also sulphuretted hydrogen. In the small intestines of criminals Magendie and Ohevreul found an abundance of hydrogen and carbonic acid, no oxygen, and a vary- ing quantity of nitrogen. Marchand found in the gaseous contents * of the large intestines carbonic acid, nitrogen, hydrogen, carbu- 1 retted hydrogen, and a small proportion in one case of sulphuretted I hydrogen. That these gases are secreted by the mucous lining pd do not proceed from decomposition of the ingesta, is considered : improbable by Lehmann. We cannot, however, coincide in his opinion, at least to the exclusion of the first-mentioned way of i production, if for no other reasons, on account of the experiment 1 performed by Frerichs, which he himself details, that a portion of intestine emptied of its contents, and isolated from the rest of the ' canal by two ligatures, always became full of gas after being left s some time. Clinical experience also points strongly to the same conclusion. The other view, however, is maintained by all recent : investigators. According to the accurate and classical researches of Planer ’ the gases of the stomach appear to be chiefly air swallowed with the food, which has lost oxygen and gained carbonic acid, possibly ^mixed with a small proportion of gases of decomposition. Thus they are chiefly mtrogen and carbonic acid with a small proportion oi oxygen. r In the small intestine the oxygen fails entirely, but a small : proportion of hydrogen appears, derived from the decomposi- -Uon ot food. In the large intestine are found nitrogen, carbonic acid, some hydrogen, and hydrocarbons, chiefly marsh gas, and rtraces of sulphuretted hydrogen, but the proportions of these depend very greatly upon the food. 1 Stomach. (Planer.) Ileum. (Planer; post-mortem.] I Colon (after Ruge) | obtained during life. N 68-68 79-73 17-50 CO, ch4 H H,S 6 25-20 16-23 40-51 — 4-04 19-77 22-22 6-12 — traces. iompfFt^nt gaVil?ply contained in any cavity of the body soon to consist almost entirely of nitrogen and carbonic acid.