COMPLICATIONS OF PHTHISIS. 510 HAEMORRHAGE IN PHTHISIS. In early stages of phthisis, haemorrhage is thought in many cases to occur in the bronchial tubes, without there being neces- sarily any destruction of lung tissue, as has been already men- tioned (p. 445), but it is right to say that some authorities do not accept this explanation, holding that haemorrhage in such cases is always indicative of the presence of tubercle. There can be no doubt that some escape of blood is very common indeed in the neighbourhood of tubercles, as may be seen in Fig. 110, and doubt- less results from infiltration of the wall of the smaller vessels with tubercular growth. More considerable and sudden haemorrhage must arise from rupture of a larger vessel, but this is extremely difficult to trace, it being sometimes impossible, even in cases of fatal haemoptysis, to detect the injured vessel. It is generally clear, however, that the extravasation must have taken place into a cavity, or on a free surface, since the tissue is not lacerated as it would be were the haemorrhage interstitial. In a certain number of cases of advanced phthisis, bleeding appears to result from the rupture of a small aneurism or aneurismal dilatation (see p. 389). Cases have been collected by Dr. Douglas Powell, who gives the particulars of four cases which came under his own ob- servation and of others from various sources, and draws the con- clusion that—“ fatal pulmonary haemorrhage in cases of advanced phthisis almost invariably proceeds from rupture of a branch of the pulmonary artery in a cavity, either traversing its walls or crossing it, embedded in a tubercle.” If blood, from whatever cause, be poured out into the bronchi, it may of course be drawn by inspiration into others than that in which it first appeared; and in this way solid casts are sometimes formed which are to be dis- tinguished from those of plastic bronchitis, j" COMPLICATIONS OF PHTHISIS. The complications of disease occurring in the course of tuber- cular phthisis and at different periods, are inflammations of the mucous membranes of the air passages of the pulmonary paren- chyma and of the pleura. Of the appearances presented by the first, and of the relative frequency of occurrence m them oi ulcerations in consumption, we have already spoken, ther can be no doubt that the acrid character of the expectorated matters very much favours the ulcerative process. The frequency with which slight attacks of pneumonia supervene m the course oi phthisis, is not surprising, if we look upon it merely as an exace - • “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxii. p. 41. + Peacock : “ Trans. Path. Soc.," vol. xrav. p. 20.