430 CROUPOUS INFLAMMATION OF MUCOUS SURFACES. but also much altered in quality. The mucine is greatly increased, and the water relatively diminished; hut the special constituents of the secretion, if any (such as those of the gastric surface), are not increased. The numerous cells floating m the secreted liquid greatly modify its appearance and properties, they are in general more abundant as the mucus is deficient, and thus two chief types of catarrhal inflammation are marked out, the mucous and the purulent. These types may succeed one another in the course of the same disease, or else exhibit their distinctive character from the beginning. „ , . , Ulceration is not a common consequence of catarrh, and occurs, if at all, usually in chronic cases ; but it is not necessary to attri- bute it to any other special cause beside the catanh itself, ihe so-called catarrhal ulcers are generally shallow, only superficially' eroding the mucous membrane proper. _ Changes in the sub- mucous tissue (such as induration) sometimes accompany cluonic catarrh. The fever accompanying this form of inflammation has some more or less clearly defined characters. Its onset is i^dual rather than sudden, often marked by repeated rigors, and the temperature does not reach tho same height as in some inflam- mations. There is. however, a marked tendency to become chro c even in cases which may have had an abrupt beginning; e.g., bronchial catarrh, gonorrhoea, conjunctivitis, aural catarrh, and others. CROUPOUS INFLAMMATION OF MUCOUS SURFACES. Although, as we have said, the ordinary fiuansofinflammation on mucous surfaces do not give rise to any solidifying erodabon like the “ inflammatory lymph of some othei parts , there disease generally very distinct from ordinary catarrhal inflamma- tion in which are produced considerable sheets of adventibotu matter usually called false membranes. These have been thou lu to he composed of fibrin, produced out of maten^ exuded from^ blood-vessels, hut there are several d^c^s m the wayXWs view, and of late years it has been contended that the iappar*3 exudation is nothing but the greatly altered tissue 1 sl , fl0OpSions1 stm vary about the time nature of the J membrane, and we can only give the description of it which^ believe to he the most accurate, that ot M a?U01- ( essentially confirmed by Buhl, Bindfleisch, and ot ieis. mX/nrit/ of Crow —The microscopical investigation of tne croupous membrane (according to Wagner) shows a clear homo- * Warner: “Archiv (lei- Heilkunde,” vol vii. n^Sl, vol- bi'.Verlixndl. wjnor: “ Allgpmeine rafhologiej’ ^ YiEMefsci?: “Athol. Hist*” »’KUW vol. xxii. p. 35,Ifll.