7.30 INFLAMMATION OF THE UTEEUS. taken for a polypus, and of the patient’s having entirely recovered. One of these cases is recorded by Dr. J. Cooke. * The diagnosis of inversion of the uterus from a large projecting polypus is not so easy as might be thought a priori. The chief reliable sign is the possibility of insinuating the uterine sound beyond the neck of the polypus into the cavity beyond. Of course no such sulcus exists in cases of complete inversion of the uterus. "We have already had occasion to refer to the occurrence of rup- ture of the uterus as a concomitant of pregnancy in the homed or bilocular malformation of the organ. The accident is also met with in the normal uterus. A trilling laceration at the os tincse occurs at every birth, and is therefore of no consequence; and it appears that until the solution of continuity extends beyond the circular fibres of the cervix no danger is to be apprehended. Above this point the rupture may penetrate the entire thickness of the parietes, so as to allow an escape of the foetus into the abdominal cavity ; or one layer only, either on the inner or outer surface, may give way. It has been shown by many observers that the perito- neal investment of the uterus may, during parturition, alone be lacerated, leaving the uterine substance entire. The direction of the rent is stated differently by authors. Rokitansky affirms that it is generally vertical, Burns asserts it to be transverse, and Kilian maintains that it is commonly diagonal. It very rarely affects the fundus, but most frequently the posterior and inferior surface* which corresponds to the promontory against which, in the act of parturition, the expulsive efforts propel the child with peculiar force. Bupture of the uterus occasionally takes place before parturition, as a result of external injury; it is said not to be necessarily fatal, nor as dangerous as might be supposed. In one such case of rap- ture in the fourth month of pregnancy, with no clear history of external injury, the parts were sent up from Norfolk to us for examination. We found a granular fatty condition of the uterine tissue at the site of rupture, suggesting some inflammatory process which had weakened the muscular wall at this spot and favoured its rupture, possibly by some foetal movement, or by some compara- tively slight external injury. Its occurrence during parturition is, unfortunately, not a mere pathological curiosity. According to the statistics of the Dublin accoucheurs, Drs. Collins and L larke, the average frequency is about one in five or six hundred hirths. The former met with thirty-four cases in 16,414 births, the latter had four cases-in 2,484 parturient females. INFLAMMATION OF THE UTERUS. Under this head wo have to consider inflammation of the lining * “ On the Removal of the Uterus in cases of Prolapsus and Inversion.' London. 1836.