395 FURTHER METAMORPHOSES OF THROMBI. : thrombi, in which a limited portion of the centre becomes first • pale, soft, and crumbling, and is then transformed to a thick, 11 creamy fluid, much resembling pus to the naked eye. It contains, however, few leucocytes or formed elements, consisting chiefly of albuminous and fatty molecules. In rare cases something like s actual pus, with abundance of corpuscles, is found. This process < occurs frequently in thrombi of veins, and almost always in those of the heart; it often leads to the detachment of embolic masses. Organization occurs chiefly in homogeneous, unstratified thrombi . in healthy vessels, more frequently in arteries than veins; it is the c Ordinary termination of thrombosis from wound or ligature. The : thrombus becomes first of all very closely adherent to the vascular wall, it then partially loses its colour, and becomes in part con- 1 verted into a yellowish mass, similar to the inner coat of the v vessel. In this mass are subsequently formed blood-vessels and t bands of connective tissue which completely replace the original mass, and themselves ultimately disappear or become reduced to v very small dimensions. The processes of vascularization and con- v version into fibrous tissue are somewhat complicated,, and have been _ described in very different terms by different observers. 1 0. Weber, with whom Eindfleisch agrees, attributed organization to the proliferation and development of the leucocytes in the clot .'itself. These were supposed to become united into a network p similar to that formed by the corpuscles of connective tissue and their prolongations ; while the red corpuscles and fibrin represented intercellular substance. The capillaries were believed to be : mostly derived from the still permeable part of the vessel, a few connections only being formed with the vasa vasorum. It is as a matter of fact usually possible, when a thrombus is in process of r®11" organized, to inject its capillaries from the main vessel; but the production of vessels has been of late exjilained in a very different way. ! According to the latest observers, the organization of the throm- p bus is effected by changes in the epitheHum of the vessel and the 1 connective-tissue cells. of the inner coat. Both these classes of ■ elements proliferate within a few hours, and form spindle-shaped or fibro-plastic cells, which afterwards become transformed into f vessels and connective tissue. As the thrombus becomes per- : meated with newly-formed capillaries the fibrin and corpuscles simply liquefy and disappear, so that the process is rather a sub- stitution of newly-formed vascular tissue for the clot than a trans- : formation of it. The young vessels become connected with those of the middle and outer coats of the vessel, so that a complete cir- [ -elation is established, and subsequently enter into communica- tion with the still open cavity of the vessel. Other observers have attributed great importance to tho activity ot leucocytes, or migratory cells, which are supposed to make their pAy from tho vasa vasorum, and from the blood still circulating in me vessel itself into tho interior of the thrombus. It has indeod