784 TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. nection with the proper gland tissue, they sometimes appear to he altogether isolated. In a small tumour of this description, removed from the breast by operation on the supposition of its scirrhous nature, and of its being unconnected with the gland, which we had an opportunity of examining, the microscope revealed well-marked ducts and lobules, in no essential feature differing from ordinary mammary tissue. We have since repeatedly examined the structure of mammary tumours, which were regarded as malignant, and found them to consist of follicular structure, filled with epithelial growth. Mr. Birkett describes this form of tumour as present- ing to the naked eye a granular appearance of a white, rosy, of red colour, dependent in a measure upon the time it has been exposed to the air; it is lobulated, divisible into the most minute lobules, attached by a pro- longation to the breast, and invested by a fibro-cellular envelope continuous with the proper fascia of the gland. The lobules are con- nected by common areolar tissue, and the growths vary in size from that of a marble to that of a child’s head. This might also be called adenoma, being a true glan- dular tumour. Cylinder-celled epithelioma, or true Adenoma , is described by Billroth and Kindfleisch. It is produced by prolifera- tion of the glandular epi- thelium, and forms an alveolar structure, in which cylindrical epithelium is contained, like that of the normal glandular acini, but arranged in a disorderly manner, so as to fill up the cavity, instead of remaining ranged along the walls. It ends in fatty degeneration and formation of atheromatous cysts, but the cystic dilatation of the ducts is not notable. It is plain that this tumour constitutes a transition from simple glandular hypertrophy to cancer, resembling the former in the character or shape of its cells, the latter in their arrangement. It is a rare form of tumour ; we have had no opportunity of examining it. Cysto- sarcoma Mammas; Sarcoma Aden oides.—This form of tumour is not so uncommon as that just described, and has been the sub- Fjg. 183. Lobular hypertrophy of mamma. A. Section showing the entrance of duet. b. Cross section, resembling cystic disease.