428 CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. which can affect such surfaces, since they present so close a general agreement tha t much special description will thus be saved. I he following account applies not only to the respiratory mucous tract, but with some modifications, to the intestinal, and in a more restricted sense, to the genito-urinary tract, and to the eye and ear Three forms of inflammation are distinguished which may affect 1. Catarrhal inflammation, the form peculiar to such surfaces, in which no solid adventitious products are formed. 2. Croupous inflammation, in which solid sheets called false mem- branes, are formed upon the diseased surface. This has more re- semblance to the inflammations of serous membranes. _ 3 Diphtheritic inflammation, in which there is necrosis or slough- ing of the tissues, with the formation of false membranes much resembling those of croupous inflammation. The two latter forms are comparatively rare; the former ery common, being the almost invariable result of any injury or irrita- tion of the mucous tissue. I.—CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. In catarrhal, as in other inflammations, we have hyperwmta, ■ shown by the more or less pronounced red colour; hypercesthesia,, shown by the extreme sensibility of the mucous surface; iiuxeatu productiveness, shown in the swelling from mterstitial effuaon,, in the abundant liquid secretion (flux or catarrh proper), and m numerous leucocytes or young cells which the secretion contains. There is also increased waste or destruction, shown by the delach- ment of very many epithelial cells, by the fatty degeneration of many of these, and by the molecules of fat present in th° seeretio • It thus presents all the essential characters of inflammation a, for- merly defined. The factors of the process must now be separately. C°nypeiaemia is doubtless the most important condition of cat.irrh. and often must be regarded as the cause of all the other derange ments Venous hypersemia very commonly produces or predispose* to catarrh, as is seen in the occurrence of broncmtis inconsequence of cardiac obstruction ; of gastric and intestinal catarr s, i on straction of the portal systeui, &c. Whether simple, acti , arterial hypersemia, such as that resulting from section o * pathetic can of itself be said to produce catarrh is doubtful, ^t, at all events, it brings the mucous surface into such ^ that very slight causes will set up inflammation. P morbid hand, active hypersemia is an immediate consequence o stimulus (whatever it may be) which produces catan ’ ' foie one of its earliest symptoms. Hyperamna has for its nmc diate consequences redness, hypersecretion, and swelling,