259 HiEMORKHAGE. the blood, the vascular tension or blood pressure, and the state of the coats of the vessels, and that of the tissues surrounding them. The first, though doubtless important, as necessarily influencing most materially the two latter, we do not as yet possess sufficient data to speak of otherwise than hypothetically. Increase in the tension of blood within the vessels cannot but be a powerful pre- disposing cause of their rupture ; but that it will not of itself cause hemorrhage, unless the vessels be diseased, is shown by the fact that apoplectic effusion is not met with in healthy individuals who have died from strangulation, when the blood pressure within the skull must be very greatly increased. On the other hand, apoplexy is most commonly associated with two morbid conditions, which, when occurring together, are distinct evidence of increased arterial ~*n**on viz., granular disease of the kidneys, and hypertrophy of the heart (especially the left ventricle). That there is increased arte- rial tension in this condition of the body may be shown deduc- Fig. 65. tively from the laws of fluid pressure, and is also demon- strated by the sphygmograph; it is of course obvious that ves- sels might be strong enough to bear a normal pressure, but give way under one abnormally great. Condition of the Vessels. — A morbid condition of the coats of the vessels is, however, so much the most powerful factor in the causation of apoplexy, that some pathologists have spoken of it unconditionally as the cause. The principal morbid appear- ances seen in the vessels in cases of apoplexy are as follows (1) Chronic arteritis, giving rise to ngidity and brittleness of the walls, from atheromatous or cal- careous deposits; (2) as a conse- quence of this condition aneu- nsmal dilatations of the smaller arteries, which may be either a kind of dissecting aneurism SSS!6 Tidfe andthe. outer coat (lymphatic sheath i some wnters), or else true aneurisms composed of all the coats ■ (l-rple ,fat,ty doS'3neration of the capillaries and small vessels’ of fhVt alWayS, associated with atheromatous or other changes wall of1T>1gerVe8nelS; a Peculiar uuclear proliferation in fho S4. 659).18 " • s““ “ Peri-arte-itis. Nuclear proliferation in the outer coat or lymphatic sheath of a cerebral artery from a child. This is the condition believed to pre- dispose to cerebral haemorrhage; which however, had not occurred in this case. ’ (From an oHginal preparation.)