740 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PENIS. Hill, may take three forms. 1. The desquamating papule, a reddish-purple solid elevation, covered by a few thin, epithelial scales, and gradually spreading from the size of a pin's head to tliat of a sixpence or a shilling. 2. The superficial erosion, a moist, slightly raised surface much resembling the “ mucous patches ” of the later stage of the disease, and met with in similar positions, as under the foreskin in the male, and the inner nymphaj in the female. 3. The. indurated ideer, beginning as a hard papule, but gradually assuming its typical appearance of a sore with a hard base, feeling to the touch like a cup of gristle inserted in the skin, with a surface covered by a scanty adhesive yellow discharge, and bounded by sloping rounded edges, the induration extending some- what beyond the immediate margin of the ulcer. This initial manifestation of syphilis may remain for from three or four weeks to as many months, when, under treatment, the induration and other signs gradually disappear. The soft chancre, or non-infecting venereal sore, is distinguished from the syphilitic lesion by the absence of marked induration, by its sharply-cut margin giving it the appearance of being punched out of the skin, and by its spongy, worm-eaten base, bathed with a foul auto-inoculable pus. As a result of this last important pro- perty, it usually happens that these sores are multiple, especially in women on the opposite surfaces of the labia pudendi, and around the free margin of the prepuce in men. The anatomical characters of the induration tissue underlying a syphilitic ulcer, although closely resembling those of the gummy tumours subsequently forming in the skin, the viscera, and ehe- where, and hence deemed by Wagner a structure peculiar to syphi- lis-syphiloma—probably differ in no material respect from the appearance presented by any form of chronic inflammatory lesion. Beneath the thickened cuticle and enlarged papillae, a dense layer of fibro-corpuscular growth is seen, tho corpuscles resembling leucocytes, and separated only by a slight granular substance, or enclosed in the meshes of a definite fibroid stroma, which in some instances is of considerable density. A structure precisely resem- bling this is met with wherever slow irritative processes have been long°at work, as in an old indurated pile, or about the cavities of lungs destroyed by chronic phthisis. . The term ulcus elevatum has been applied to a species of sore unconnected with syphilis; probably a variety of what is now called the soft sore. n , Phymosis is the name given to such a contracted and elongated prepuce as cannot be drawn back over the glans. This is usuaflya congenital defect, and may be present to an extreme degree. e have seen a man whose preputial orifice was from birth no larger than a small pinhole, and in whom circumcision was requite in middle life to enable the penis to perform its functions. Sometimes such a condition results from psoriasis of the prepuce, or from tne contraction following the healing of venereal ulcers.