761 UTERINE CYSTS. These softer—and, for the most part, much smaller—masses correspond to the jelly-like polypi met with in the nose, and con- sist almost wholly of altered mucous membrane. lienee theymav present the characters of myxoma, the sub-mucous connective being actively developed, and its interstices filled with clear viscid fluid, the whole being invested with a delicate epithelial layer; or. the glandular portion of the mucous membrane being the' special Seat of the hypertrophic change, a soft vascular tumour is formed whose structure is made up almost entirely of gland tissue, ducts, and their terminal dilatations, regularly lined with epithelium, and connected by more or less delicate bands of fine fibrous tissue, in which the vessels are distributed. To this last class belongs the “ channelled polypus ” of Dr. Oldham, described as made up of several long channels, with occasional communications between them, and opening by large orifices on the free surface of the growth. A third variety is formed by the expansion of the glandular crypts after obstruction of their ducts, and these tumours are more distinctly vesicular or cystic, the tiny spheres being distended with the accumulated mucous or other secretion, seldom attaining any large size, and as rarely becoming pedunculated. The “ ovula Nabothi,” or firm clear vesicles in the os and cervix uteri, belong to this class. The symptoms caused by the presence of these succulent polypi are of course far less important than those attending the larger fleshy growths; they can hardly interfere with parturition, but the haemorrhage to which they frequently give rise may render opera- tive interference necessary for their removal. UTERINE CYSTS. . Cystic, growths are extremely rare in the uterus. Certain cases are on record, however, in which the cystic transformation already mentioned, affecting muscular tumours of the uterus, proceeds to such an extent as to make the cyst development the leading feature of the case, and such tumours,have derived a grave importance of late from their close simulation of ovarian dropsy. In almost all the instances of attempted removal of the tumour under this supposition, death has resulted. An interesting example of this cystic tumour of the uterus was brought to the Pathological Society of London in 1867 by Mr. Isaac B. Brown. The tumour in this case—which is sufficiently typical for brief narration here— weighed eight pounds and a half after some pints of thin, clear fluid had been removed from an enormous cyst in its substance, and it sprang from the body and neck of the uterus, having been evolved out of the substance of these parts. The wall of the cavity, and a large fleshy projection into its midst, were made up for the most part of fibro-muscular tissue, more or less closely resembling