INFLAMMATION OF THE STOMACH. 56,3 - uiuuu-vrasoiB, out also OI larger trunks, and even of the aorta, is changed into pulta- thicknoss. It is either affected in single folds, or streaks which pass from the cardiac orifice to the lesser curvature, and from the large curvature to the pylorus; or over a large extent; or we find the entire surface converted into a black carbonaceous mass, of ■several lines in thickness, distended by sanguinolent fluid, and consequently presenting a tumefied appearance.” The muscular coat is affected, and the parietes of the stomach are often perforated . 1 1 r ui/uiuawi CbLKj U1UDU ‘ The acid affects the neighbouring organs through the mem- branes, and thus either coagulates'or tans the contained fluids, ..fuses the tissues into a gelatinous mass, or Cfirbonifi.es thorn; the liscoloration produced is always very marked. In many cases, aot only the blood of the neighbouring blood-vessels, but also of ■nn Ifll'fVQP ri*un lrti nrt/-l A I 1*1 . • ^ous, pitchy, greasy, black cylinders. Beyond the stomach, and especially in the duodenum, and at the commencement of the ejunum, the effect of the lowest degree is exhibited in coagulation if the intestinal mucus, and of the chyle, in corrugation and ipacity of the epithelium, in the tanned state of the mucous mem- irane, and the dark injection of its vessels.” The highest decrees ‘if corrosive action are rapidly fatal, “the lowest degrees are allowed by exudative inflammation, the mortified epithelium l -i J 1 UAAC -LU.UI LlUtH doughs, and being replaced by a new formation, as soon as :he reaction has abated, recovery ensues.” In all the higher degrees, inflammation, passing into suppuration, produces°the separation of the superficial mortified layers. The suppurating nroeess may be protracted, or may terminate early with the cormation of cicatrices. “According to the depth to which he tissues are destroyed, the loss of substance is repaired under J f™ o sh-uctnres that vary in size and consistency.” L 1 ffth\m° lfiCatl01^18 llmited the ^bmucous cellular tissue h. latter becomes condensed, and “ forms, at some places, project- or and evon annular, duplications towards fLm US T7 peculiar membranous strictures are 13S2' i 1 the muscular coat itself is involved, it is partially ntn I f/ <l0Sn°Te<1’jmd the walls of the oesophagus are converted ^afibro-cellular firm tissue, which contracts, and thus pro- J™®. th'!.most lmP.ortant and most resisting strictures.” Chronic ™ S0,metm'.us occlirs as the result of profound injury •oai hfei0rma 0n °,f 1absccsses anfl sinuses of the musculo -oat, and of the surrounding cellular sheath of the cesophao-us mlY produco perforation of adjoining passages, the ti-achea ami J-Ty healAl0avillo considerable contractions of the ■ ■ s and strictures. Cicatrices and strictures are formed in the frequently, in the membranes of the stomach. - n rbid changes produced by arsenic arc as follows • “ At one i larger ^amount* T?0*1 th° Powder,haPPeM to attach itself to •ormfc i ammint, the mucous membrane appears plicated and mmefied, reddened, invested by a detached epithelium and n n> exudation; its tissue is softened, pultaceous; and at the