ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SPLEEN. 652 tation of the duct of the submaxillary gland, or Wharton’s duct, produces a tumour within the mouth which has received the name of Ranula. The salivary concretions, or calculi, are described by Rokitansky as “ white, friable, and either round, oblong, cylin- drical, or obovoid; in size varying from that of a millet seed or pea, to even that of a hazel nut. They are either solitary, or, if small, frequently very numerous (twenty and more); and they are composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, held together by animal matter.” The saliva from which they are formed by depo- sition, must be, as Dr. Walshe remarks, in an unhealthy state; for while the concretions consist chiefly of phosphate of lime, sometimes containing 94 per cent., there exists very little of this salt in the normal secretion. “ It becomes, therefore, extremely probable that the excess of phosphate is generated through the influence of irritation of mucous membrane.” ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SPLEEN. This or^an is generally absent in acephalous monsters; some- times it is wanting, together with the stomach, or the fundus of the stomach, in subjects otherwise well developed; or it may be itself alone in a rudimentary state. Small supernumerary spleens, which are often met with in the vicinity of the organ, are not to be regarded as instances of its multiplication, but of its subaivibion. The spleen is liable to very great variations m size, probably more than any other organ of the body. This depends chiefly on the very large size of its vascular system, and on the great quantity of vellow, elastic fibre contained in its structure, which allows it to be distended to a prodigious extent. Most, if not all, hypertrophies of the spleen, however, are produced not only by engorgement of the vessels, but by an alteration and increase of the red, pulpy parenchyma which they traverse. This parenchyma, consisting chiefly of lymphoid corpuscles, has certainly very close relations with the vascular system of the organ, some histologists asserting that the blood finds its way through spaces which have no regular walls. Whether this be the case or not, it is certam it will very readily admit of increase or diminution corresponding with the distension of the vessels. Its corpuscular elements appear to be also susceptible of rapid increase. . , •v We shall here only mention the degrees of change m size which the spleen may undergo. Rokitansky states, that “ the sp e?n unfrequently measures sixteen inches in its long, seven inches in its short, diameter, and four inches m thickness; its w g may amount to 13J lbs.,” or even, as others affirm, to 20 lbs. and upwards. One weighing 13 lbs. is reported by I • r Tranl Path. Soc.,” vol. xxii. p. 276), from a case where the white corpuscles of the blood were increased; another,