MORBID CONDITION'S OF THE FEMALE URETHRA. 713 destroyed, commonly from the mechanical effect of catheters pushed against it; hut it may also take place spontaneously, and it has happened that the indurated part being destroyed by the extending ulceration, the stricture has thereby been cured. A more common and less favourable result of deep ulcerations is the perforation of the canal and the formation of a fistulous opening. When the obstruction occasioned by a stricture is very great, and it maybe such that the passage will hardly admit a bristle, the urethra behind is dilated, often in- flamed, and sometimes ulcerated, so as to give rise to urinary fistula, or effusion of urine. The bladder and ureters are affected, as we have before described. Of course the hypertrophy of the bladder, by propelling the urine more forcibly against the stricture, must tend to increase the dilatation of the canal behind. The urethra is sometimes obstructed by warty growths, which are situated generally near the meatus, and are remarkably vas- cular; they are developed as the result of gonorrhoea, and poly- pous growth is occasionally found, but is much more rare. Chronic disease of the lacunae sometimes converts them into small indurated tumours, which become imbedded in the corpus spon- giosum ; of this kind, perhaps, is an instance mentioned by Bokitansky, in which numerous cartilaginous protuberances from the size of a millet seed to that of a pea were scattered over the surface as far back as the bulb, not, however, obstructing the passage. It may be well to remind the student that the common expression of “old cartilaginous strictures” intend simply the density and firmness of the induration maiter, and not at all that it contains any true cartilage. Stricture is rare before puberty, but has been found at the age of ten years; it is well to be aware that it may at this age be possibly the result of the habit of mas- turbation. Many surgeons have regarded the excessive use of stimulating injections as as occasional cause of stricture. Croupous, or fibrinous inflammation, in very rare cases occurs primarily on the urethral mucous lining, and chiefly in children. It is probable that it takes place also here as a secondary process in the same diseases in which it is found in the bladder and ureters. Variolous pustules are not unfrequent in the urethra. Tubercle is of rare occurrence in the urethra; it is only present when the entire urinary apparatus is likewise affected. It has been found in the miliary as well as in the more massive form. Cancer affects the urethra, either in the male or female, for the most part as an extension of adjacent disease; but cases are recorded where the growth in this part was either primary or isolated. Morbid Conditions of the Female Urethra.—Displacements of the uterus, especially retroversion, cause compression of the passage as also does the pressure of the child’s head during labour. Such compression not unfrequently produces sloughing? of the parietes and vesico-vaginal fistula. Dilatation of the urethra is in rare • cases congenital; it is sometimes effected purposely for the sake