332 APOPLEXY AND RUPTURE OF THE HEART. Without a knowledge of the changes which have taken place in the tissue, and precede the occurrence of these accidents, it is impossible to offer any rationale for them; but now that weaie acquainted with the fact that the muscular fibre is degenerated at certain parts of, or throughout the organ, it is easy to und^stand that, under given circumstances, requiring an unusual ell ort the heart, the weakest point will yield, and give rise to effusion of blood. There is no essential difference between those cases in which the haemorrhage seems confined to the muscular Wsue and those in which, owing to a laceration of the Pe™ar^uflm and endo- cardium, a passage is° established by which the blood flows into the serous sac. In the latter case we find the pericardium on opening the body, distended with fluid blood, or, if the individual 1ms survived7some time after the accident, the blood is partly coagulate . The rent varies from an inch in length to a nimute orifice frequently runs into the septum, and occasionally we find a accompanying rupture of the column® came®. The ieft ventricle is bv fir the most frequent seat of these disruptions; we find that six or seven cases of spontaneous-rupture of the heart, detailed m the Reports of the Pathological Society of London, occurred in the left ventricle, and only one in the right. An analysis of these cases also shows that the prevailing impression &at is more liable than the posterior to become lacerated, is erroneous, five having occurred on the posterior, and two on the anterior walls of the heart In all there was fatty degeneration, most rnaiked a. different explanation must be sought for, toa“0}int^,7 itseif. of the rupture, which appears to vary as much as the We find that of five cases of this description, m a sss rasas “ the ventricles once. . . instances Rupture of the heart is generally ““g*^Severed from the are, however, recorded m winch the p. ,, cases Nature first shock, and survived for several hours, ‘of a film 0f is found to have made an effort at repair, in - 1 P lymph, exuded between the torn surfaces.