841 OSTEOPOROSIS. to be true carbonate of lime, and not like the tophi of adjoining articulations, urate of soda. Atrophy.—Simple atrophy is less rare than simple hypertrophy; but this condition not unfrequently results from several causes. ‘‘Inflammation, fatty degeneration, disuse, or injury,” are men- tioned by Mr. Holmes. It is also distinguished as concentric atrophy, in which all parts of the bone waste equally, themedullary cavity becoming smaller at the same time as the walls become thinner; and excentric atrophy, in which the cavity enlarges at the expense of the external portions. The latter condition may be combined with or merge in that of osteoporosis. The condition known as concentric atrophy results in limbs from disuse, whether in consequence of dislocation, stiffness of the joints, ankylosis, or paralysis. Partial atrophy may be the result of fracture or other injury to the bone, as has been thought (though Mr. Holmes doubts this), from injury to the medullary artery. Excentric atrophy does not necessarily cause any diminution of the external dimensions, but the bone is rarefied; both the can- celli and the medullary cavit}^ being enlarged, and the partitions absorbed, while the external wall becomes reduced to a mere shell. In this condition the bone is extremely light and brittle ; the latter state has given rise to the name fragilitas ossium, and may give occasion to so-called spontaneous fractures. In flat bones all the cancellous tissue may be absorbed, and the tables come in contact. The causes of excentric atrophy are senile decay and various cachexise. It is usually accompanied by fatty degeneration, and the bones, when removed and macerated, are yellow and oily. This property is noticed by museum collectors in the bones of animals from menageries; which show also the results of muscular inactivity in the smooth surface, and wasting of the muscular ridges. Two peculiar conditions allied to atrophy must be spoken of separately—viz., osteoporosis and mollities ossium. OSTEOPOROSIS. In the rarefied state of bone to which the term of osteoporosis was given by Lobstein, the affected bone presents an increase of size, and a diminution of density, owing to the tissue being expanded ; the surface of the bone is irregular and very porous. When the bone is fresh, signs of hypermmia and inflammation are present, the medulla being vascular and rich in cells, the periosteum swollen’and injected ; but on macerating the bone its actual substance is found diminished, the gradual expansion inducing a thinning of the sur- rounding osseous layers, and eventually a communication between adjoining cavities. The condition may affect the compact or can- cellous tissues alone or together. When the cortical layers are the seat of the change, the appearances may induce the resemblance of caries. Lobstein describes the surface in this case as bein^ covered