INFLAMMATION. 264 tion. Dr. Bastian states that the specific gravity of softened white matter usually falls to 1 032, hut when in its natural condition it is about 1-040.* It is common in children, complicated with hydrocephalus, or as a product of arrested or perverted nutrition, or exanthematic fevers; the affected portions ot the brain often being entirely diffluent. In adults it is found in connection with phthisis. White softening is chiefly met with in the parts most remote from the grey matter, as one would expect, if the etiology, as given above, is correct, because they are provided with fewer blood- vessels. Rcstan, who was the first to draw attention to cerebral softening, which has since been extensively studied by patholo- gists, admitted the presence of an inflammatory and a non- inflammatory form; but there is now a general agreement among pathologists to separate this condition from the changes produced by inflammation. Abercrombie and some other writers attribute the form of softening just described under the term of cerebral softening to inflammation ; an analysis of the cases given by Abercrombie himself, will, however, be found to support the view of the existence of white softening without the physical signs of inflammation. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the brain occurs in the various forms, and gives rise to the same products that we find in other organs, modified, of course, in their characters by the anatomical relations of the organ. We find it as an acute and as a chronic disease. Acute inflamma- tion of the brain is not frequently met with in the dead house, in the early stages, nor is idiopathic encephalitis a disease o£ common occurrence, and many of the cases recorded by older witters resolve themselves into cases of meningitis. It is not our province to inquire into the causes of the peculiarities of diseased action; but we may allude to the circumstance of the brain being so com- pletely withdrawn from physical influences acting immediately upon it, as one of the reasons why idiopathic inflammation should not set up in it, with the same frequency and violence that it exhibits in organs that are more exposed. It is brought on by exposure to the sun’s rays in hot summer days or m tropical climates, and may be so rapidly fatal as to produce death before the purulent stage has supervened. Other instances of idiopathic encephalitis are however met with in the early stage, in which no direct exciting cause is traceable. In a case of this kind we find a more or less circumscribed dusky redness in the substance of the brain; the spot generally occupies the upper part ol the * Bastian : “ Specific Gravity of the Brain." in the “ Journ. of Menial Science," Jan, 1866, and lieynolds’s “ System of Medicine, ’ vol. u. p.