78S CANCER OF TIIE MAMMA. ago and other predisposing causes, and for statistics, we must refer to works on surgery. Sarcoma.—A true spindle-celled sarcoma has been seen in the mamma, hut is rarely uncomplicated, there being generally either cystic production, or sometimes an intermingling of cancer. It often recurs after removal, and may come in the end greatly to resemble the soft cancer in external appearance,* * * § and to be repro- duced in distant parts. No doubt such tumours were formerly called cancer; indeed, the name carcinoma fasciculi turn of Joh. Muller, which means spindle-cell sarcoma, was taken from tumours of the breast. Myxoma is sometimes observed, but was probably formerly con- founded with colloid cancer. It may recur and even be reproduced in distant organs.t Filroma.— Simple fibrous tumours are not very common. They arise, according to Virchow, from a hyperplastic process in the fibrous stroma of the mamma, in which the glandular structure disappears. This may be general or partial, the former causing general induration of the glands. A peculiar form of tumour is Virchow’s fibroma papillare iniracanahculare, formed by papillary growths within the lactiferous ducts. We have seen one case, and another has been lately described.! True fibromata seem some- times to contain cysts.§ Enchondroma occurs in the breast seldom, if ever, unmixed, but usually combined with myxomatous and sarcomatous tissue ; more rarely with cancer. But it is in any form very uncommon, sir A. Cooper described a case which was partly bony. Lipoma.—Isolated fatty tumours are not unfrequently formed in the adipose tissue surrounding the gland. General hypertrophy of the same tissue produces the appearance of enlargement of the gland. The production of fat may indeed be combined with a general interstitial fibrous hypertrophy, producing apparent en- largement, though wasting of the gland substance; but it may also occur in cases of actual wasting of the breast, from scirrhus or fibroid induration. Echinococcus cysts have occurred in the breast, but are excessively rare. One is reported in the “ Pathological Transactions ’ by Mr. Bryant (vol. xvii. p. 276). Tubercle has not been observed to occur in the breast. Syphilitic growths in the form of gummata are spoken of by some authors, but the descriptions for the most part require con- firmation. * Anderson, “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. p. 254, pi. viil. i See a remarkable case in “ Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxm. p. *.*5, and vol. xxi . p. 120, pi. iii. _ t> 4\ t Virchow, “Krankh. Gesclrwiilste,” vol. i. p. 342. De Morgan, 4 Trans. Tath. Soc.,” vol. xxi. p. 353. (?) § “Trans. Path. Soc.,” vol. xxiii. pp. 258, 260.