<)9G CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES OF HEIGHT'S DISEASE. cases. Vide “ British Medical Journal,” 1861, June and December. tricle of the heart. Cerebral haemorrhage* occurs with a certain frequency, and also a peculiar affection of the retina. Some of these changes, especially cardiac hypertrophy, are met with in a certain number of cases of the other form of Bright’s disease, but only occasionally ; while their absence in the contracted granular kidney is in the highest degree exceptional. Many theories have been framed to explain these morbid conditions, which we can only briefly glance at. Dr. Bright himself noticed the occurrence of hypertrophy of the left side of the heart in cases of granular kidney, and attributed it to the reaction on the heart of obstruction in the systemic circulation; this obstruction being caused as he thought by the fact that blood poisoned, or unhealthy from inac- tivity of the kidneys, must traverse the capillaries with less ease than healthy blood; as well as by an atheromatous condition of the arteries. Dr. Johnson, who first noticed the condition of the smaller arteries, regards it is as pure muscular hypertrophy, which he attributes to a contraction or stop-cock” action, intended to hinder or prevent the access of (poisoned) blood to the tissues. The obstruction thus caused to the circulation leads to cardiac hypertrophy. Traube regards the actual obstruction to the passage of blood through the kidney itself as the cause of general high arterial tension, and this as leading to hypertrophy of the left ventricle, notwithstanding the obvious objection that the obstruction (even were it complete) of the renal circulation must have only an inconsiderable effect on the whole mass of the blood. Sir W. Gull and Dr. Sutton have lately put forward an entirely different view of these relations. The kidney disease they regard not as the cause of the other changes, hut as itself the consequence of a general arterial disease, to which they have given the name of ‘1 Arterio Capillary Fibrosis; ’ the anatomical characters of which we cannot here consider, hut which have led, they think, to the erroneous conception of a true muscular hypertrophy. This change in the vessels, however, causes general obstruction to the arterial circulation, leading in the end to cardiac hypertrophy, and accompanied by arterial tension. The same change in the vessels also gives rise to fibroid change in the viscera, of which the kidney, from its rich vascular supply, is the most conspicuous instance. It is impossible to discuss these views; we can only point Out what we believe to be established facts; that a high degree of arterial tension accompanies most forms of Bright’s disease, but chiefly the chronic; that true arterial muscular hypertrophy does exist, as described by Dr. Johnson, either as the consequence or as the cause of the arterial tension; and that if the former alternative be accepted, the obstruction must he situated in the tissues; whether or not, for the reason given by Bright. Finally, this * Mr. Jones speaks of the relation between disease of the kidneys and cerebral hremorrhage as most intimate, the two lesions concurring in nearly 90 per cent, of his