83 INFLAMMATION. after many hours. Simultaneously with the veins, the capillaries also enlarge, but not more than one-sixth or one-fourth of their diameter; in some the current goes on unchanged, while in others retardation of the current and emigration of the leucocytes take place as in the veins. Some red corpuscles also leave the veins and capillaries at the same time as the white, but not in the same numbers; they pass through slowly, and are sometimes broken in two by the blood current. There is also simultaneous exudation of blood serum. After a time (perhaps twenty-four hours) the capillaries and veins are closely surrounded with the emigrated blood corpuscles, and though these rapidly pass away, their places are taken by others. The leucocytes, travelling partly by their own activity and partly perhaps conveyed by the exuded serum, at length fill the mesenteric tissue, and form layers on its upper surface, which may be solidified by the coagulation of the exuded serum. Subsequent to this process, but in reality a part of it, is the phenomenon known as stasis, already described, which has its seat in the capillaries, and which therefore brings us back to the ' description formerly given.* Causes of the Vascular Phenomena of Inflammation.—If we adopt ' the division of Dr. Burdon Sanderson (formerly given), we must ■ consider the phenomena of inflammation under three heads—(1) Disorders of circulation ; (2) transudation of serum, emigration of j.1 cells, and stasis; (3) changes in the elements of the tissues. The I 1 causes of disordered circulation have already been considered under the head of Hyperaemia ; but those which come imder the ' second head are peculiar to inflammation. These cannot be simply a consequence of the first class of phenomena, as then every active ■ hyperaemia would result in inflammation : some other explanation 1 is necessary, and the following have been suggested. The view of Di\ Williams is that stasis and inflammation depend upon the white blood corpuscles. He maintains “ that an essential part of inflammation is the production of numerous white globules in the inflamed vessels; and that the obstruction of these vessels is mainly due to the adhesive properties of these globules.” With regard to this doctrine, it must be admitted that Dr. W llliams anticipated some recent discoveries, in drawing attention to the behaviour of the white corpuscles; but neither the increased number nor the adhesiveness of these elements can completely explain the phenomena which have been described. J Other explanations formerly given need hardly be noticed now • since they are obviously untenable in face of the new facts which ! have come to light. There are, in fact, two distinct nhenomena i which have now to bo accounted for—the emigration of cells and i the subsequent stasis. ’ . nn™t„?hon1'1 be Statr1 that cT"7ati°n of leucocytes from the vessels appears to be a normal process in frogs, and also in some mvertebrata; and is perhans so under i some circumstances in the higher vertebrata. pernaps so under