112 PYAEMIA AND SEPTICAiHIA. was supposed that under certain circumstances, when suppuration occurred in one part of the body, pus made its way into the veins, and was thus distributed to various other parts, where it was deposited; hence the familiar surgical term “ secondary deposits. It is not now believed that actual pus enters the veins, but in discussing the subject it is almost necessary to assume that some morbid poison, whether derived from inflammation or not, does enter the blood. We shall therefore endeavour to explain the morbid lesions on this hypothesis, and afterwards show what evidence can be given as to the existence and nature of this poison. The phenomena most frequently observed m pycemia are somewhat as follows '—A man has received an injury, or undergone some surgical operation; it may be an amputation, or that tor fistula in ano • for a time all proceeds well, but soon shivenngs come on, with adynamic fever and oppression; he emaciates, pain or disorder shows itself in some internal viscus, and m a few days he dies in a state of stupor or delirium. Often the discharge ot pus fif there have been any) from the original wound stops, granula- tions cease to grow, and it becomes what surgeons call unhealthy. The blood often contains an excess of leucocytes. On opening the body the blood is sometimes found abnormally fluid ; but this is not constant: there are abscesses, more or less numerous, com- monly in the lungs, and often in the liver, or other parts ; there is freauently purulent inflammation of the joints or serous mem- branes and often ecchymosis on the latter. Pyaemia may occur without any external wound, and then often assumes a^ chronic form. Many cases of “ Puerperal Pever also fall under the same ^Experimental Evidence.-The original view of the origin of pyaemia wal supposed to be confirmed by some ot the earlier experiments. Cruveilhier, for instance, injected mercury into veins, and found that small abscesses were formed m the next set ot capillaries sup- plied by the veins ; either in the lung, if the mercury was in- fected into veins of the general system ; or m the liver, if into veins JT+hfi nnrtal svstem. A small globule ot mercury was found hx the centre of each of these abscesses, showing that this had excited inflammation, passing into suppuration noout lfreli m Se part where it was deposited. The pus-globule was supposed to i„ the same direction, by injecting pus itself, asf a „r other.,ibices, “Stlybe'thu. summarized: (1) The true inflammations, not deposits ot pus. (2) lhe staiting 1