665 addison’s disease. Cysts.—A cystic condition of these organs is described by Vir- chow f.s struma supra-rerale ; and a form of lymphatic cavernous tumour (lymphangioma) has also been described; but both are very rare. Addison's Disease; or Melasma Supra-renale.—This name is given to the disease first distinguished by the late Dr. Addison, in which a peculiar degeneration of the supra-renal capsules is associated with extreme cachexia and peculiar pigmentation or bronzing of the skin. These three characters are nearly constant, but of the two latter, one, more often the cutaneous affection, is sometimes wanting, though the anatomical characters of the supra-renal bodies and the general course of the disease may be enough to identify it. We are here only concerned with the supra-renal bodies, th9 changes in which, though not always quite the same, are constant in certain features. The organ is always enlarged, its fibrous envelope thickened and adherent to the surrounding parts. The substance, hard, nodulated; all distinction between the cortical and medullary portions lost; and the natural structure quite obliterated. The adventitious material which occupies the place of the normal structures appears in two forms at least. First.—A translucent fibroid material, sometimes quite resembling cartilage in appearance, of a greyish or sometimes slightly greenish colour, said by Dr. Greenhow to “ assume a pinkish hue on exposure to the air.” Secondly.—White or yellowish opaque crumbling material, resembling “ scrofulous matter” or “ crude tubercle.” Beside these two substances are seen collections of creamy liquid, like softened tubercle, and sometimes cretaceous matter; the two latter being apparently derived from metamor- phosis of the whitish crumbling material. The different matters are sometimes mingled together so as to produce a mottled appearance, one passing imperceptibly into the other, sometimes the translucent material forming a diffuse infiltration, and especially becoming continuous with the thickened envelope, while the white opaque matter is enclosed by it in distinct masses. The general naked-eye appearance seems to us more like that of certain syphilitic gummata, especially of the brain, than any other morbid product. In typical cases of Addison’s disease, when the change is far advanced, certainly no miliary tubercles are ever seen. Minute Changes. —Microscopical examination of these products has yielded rather unsatisfactory results. The grey fibroid mate- rial is found to consist of connective tissue, with a granular fibrillated matrix, nuclei, and sometimes spindle-cells; but is sometimes nearly amorphous, perhaps from secondary degenera- tion. This appearance has suggested the term lardaceous to some observers, but it is quite distinct from lardaceous disease pro- perly so called, and is unstained by iodine. The opaque por- tions eonsist of material obviously in the state of necrosis or decay: shrunk and withered cells, like what were formerly called