147 NEW GROWTH OF BLOOD VESSELS. the inner layer of the periosteum or from the medulla of bone; but from their starting-point they may spread both into the bone itself and into the neighbouring soft parts, which, at first affected by a purely cellular growth, may at length become ossified. More generally, however, the tumour grows by addition of successive layers to the outside, and a very large mass, usually with a lobu- lated or irregular exterior, may thus be formed. The bony parts of the tumour are of a structure which, according to Sir J. Paget, is “true bone, but not well-formed bone;” according to others is merely a calcification of the intercellular substance; but it seems that both may be met with. The unossified parts of the tumour may be hard, but are principally composed of cells, in which the spindle form, characteristic of some forms of sarcoma predominates, but round cells and large cells of the myeloid type are also seen (Pig! 21). It is on this ground that Yirchow and other recent writers classify these tumours under the head of sarcoma. Secondary tumours, precisely similar in structure to the primary growth, may occur in other parts, most frequently in the lymphatic glands ; but sometimes, without passing through the lymphatic system, in the lungs. While in the former case there can be no doubt that the generalization is effected by the lymphatic channels, there is great leason to think that in the latter the secondary growths arise from portions mechanically transported through the veins and pulmonary artery.* VI.—NEW GROWTH OF BLOOD VESSELS; VASCULAR TUMOUR; ANGIOMA. The Pathological Production of Plood Vessels.—Before we proceed to describe vascular tumours, which constitute our next class, we shall give some account of the development of new vessels in inflammatory exudations and other new formations. Two opinions have been held as to the mode in which their formation takes place. By some, as Paget, Travers, and Simon, they were con- sidered to be formed by “ outgrowth from adjacent vessels.” Small dilatations appear on the side of a vessel, increase in length, and at last meet and coalesce with similar diverticula in their vicinitv; in this way a new capillary loop is formed, and the process is earned on in the same way. On the other hand, Bokitansky, vogel, and Dr. Walshe agreed in regarding the new vessels as originating spontaneously in the exuded blastema. Bokitansky nas, however, given up this opinion so far as new growths and inflammatory false membranes are concerned, but still believes in the occasional endogenous production of blood-cells in certain cystic structures. With this exception, the belief in the indepen- dent lormation of blood or blood vessels is now generally given up f origin of certain blood-corpuscles to l, in a recent memoir (“ Quarterly