729 TUMOURS AND NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS. Even where the mass of the growth is composed of large irregular cells packed in a slight fibroid framework, there are usually por- tions—generally about the margin—of the tumour in which the cells are small and regular, like those of granulation-tissue. True scirrhous carcinoma, in which the dense stroma is greatly in excess of the contained cell growth, is hardly ever encountered in the testis, although different parts of the same tumour often present very different degrees of hardness. If any of the healthy gland-tissue is left it is spread over and closely adherent to the carcinomatous nodule. This disease has an unhappy tendency to spread up the cord—sometimes as a uniform and continuous enlargement, at others in a nodular, irregular manner—and it early affects the lymphatic glands lying in front of^ the lumbar spine; the inguinal glands remaining free unless the scrotum also be involved. Secondary formations in remote viscera are also to be looked for in these cases, if the patient live long enough. The spermatic vessels become enlarged in proportion to the extent and rapidity of the growth. Carcinoma of the testis seems to be most frequent in middle life, and from thence on to sixty or sixty-five, but it has been observed even in infancy. Colloid carcinoma is unknown in the testis, and there are very few cases on record of melanotic cancer in this locality. A small round-cell sarcoma has been described as causing a swell- ing ot the testicle, very difficult to be distinguished from carcinoma. Probably the microscope alone could decide between them, for this round-cell tumour is frequently associated with invasion of the ljunphatic glands. It forms a cream-like infiltration of the testis, with an abundant milky juice, and having a structure of round or oval nucleated cells imbedded in a granular semi-fluid matrix, but. with none of the alveolar fibroid stroma characteristic of carcinoma. Spindle-cell sarcoma, having a strong tendency to be associated with cyst development, is also met with in the testis. This cystic tumour, like cancer, is limited to one testicle, but differs materially from it in its comparative freedom from the clinical features of malignancy. The cysts may be only two or three in number, or excessively numerous, causing considerable enlargement. They vary in size, from the most minute to the dimensions of a pigeon’s egg, and their delicate walls are lined with a beautiful epithelium. Their contents are, in the younger cysts, a transparent, light-coloured fluid, in the older, a more thick, viscid, and very albuminous substance, in which’ more or less blood may be present. The cysts are imbedded in a stroma of I spindle-cell tissue; sometimes small masses of enchondroma being developed between them. A lobulated growth of the same fleshy tissue sometimes arises from the wall of the cyst, and occupies I its cavity more or less completely. In one specimen we have