INFLAMMATION. 78 exudation; while the changes in the tissues are the consequence merely of the exudation of blood constituents. Pinal ly, we may sum up the phenomena which every complete definition of inflammation has to account for thus, as, (1) Active hyperaemia, or determination of blood; (2) Stagnation of blood; (3) Escape of the liquid and corpuscular constituents of the blood; (4) Changes in the tissues both in the direction of overgrowth and in the direction of degeneration or loss of substance; (5) Ner- vous disturbance, as j)ain and hyperaesthesia. External Characters.—The general appearance of an inflamed part is well described in the terms handed down from the age of Celsus, as being the seat of redness, heat, pain, and swelling. These are the visible symptoms of a pathological process, which, though continually before our eyes, and of the utmost impor- tance in its results, and though it has been the subject of numberless speculations and careful labours, we are compelled to acknowledge we are still imperfectly acquainted with. The redness of an inflamed part is more or less vivid; it is deepest in the centre, and gradually shades off towards the circumference. In this respect it differs from an extravasation, whose margin is more defined, as also in the circumstance that it can be in a greater degree removed by pressure, though by no means com- pletely. The aspect of the redness may differ according to various circumstances; if the capillary networks of the part affected be plane, or uniformly extended, the injection will appear as an uniform deep blush; if, on the other hand, they are moulded to the form of villi, or folds of mucous membrane, the surface will have the appearance of a pile of red velvet: in fibrous struc- tures a streaky appearance is observed, and generally the form of the redness will depend upon the arrangement of the capillaries of the part. The increased depth of colour is owing chiefly to distension of existing vessels, not in anywise to the formation of new ones, a process which does not take place till a much later period: the only other cause which at present exists is the stain- ing of the surrounding tissues with exuded haemoglobin, which may occur soon after stasis has been established. It is necessary to distinguish carefully between genuine inflammatory redness, and that which often simulates it closely in the dead body, viz., hypo- static, or depending solely on mechanical causes, or on the mode in which death has taken place. It is always desirable to take other circumstances into consideration at the same time, but we may generally say that we should doubt the inflammatory nature of a redness which existed solely in depending parts, or in those the large veins of which were much gorged, or which coincided with a fluid condition of the blood, and which was not attended with any thickening of the part. It may also be ob- served, that after an internal part has been exposed to the air a short time, it assumes a much more marked and brighter redness, which depends solely on the action of the oxygen in the air.