387 CONSEQUENCES OF ANEURISM. Effects produced by Aneurisms.—As an aneurism enlarges it necessarily displaces the adjoining tissues, and causes an absorp- tion of those that offer any resistance. The danger of an aneurismal tumour depends upon its site and upon its vicinity to vital organs whose functions are liable to be interfered with by pressure. It is thus that aneurism occurring in the thorax and in the regions of the neck threatens life, before the arterial disease has put on any dangerous appearance, by narrowing the trachea, by compressing the oesophagus or other vessels. The extent to which absorption prepares a passage to an advancing aneurism is in some cases extraordinary; an aortic aneurism by this process may pass through the thorax or eat into the vertebral column. In these cases, as Eokitansky describes, not only the bone is destroyed but the aneurismal sac itself becomes fused with the periosteum, and the other fibrous structures that usually invest the bones. In this way the exposed vertebral column may constitute a portion of the aneurismal wall. Sometimes we meet with a bone, such as a rib crossing the cavity of the aneurism, and attached only at the ends ; the bone being at the same time denuded of periosteum. This paradoxical result is thus produced. The aneurism pressing on the rib causes absorption of the adjacent portion of periosteum and pushes the remainder off the bone, till the membrane forms part of the aneurismal wall; while the cavity, extending itself on both sides of the bone becomes continuous behind it. Hodgson* has pointed out, that as the aneurism advances to the surface of the body, it induces sloughing of the integuments, and an eschar forming on the tumour itself, its discharge gives rise to fatal haemorrhage ; the same is the case when the aneurism opens into a cavity lined with mucous membrane. But a different result takes place when the sac projects into a serous cavity ; in this case the membranes do not slough, but the pariet-es of the tumour become softened and thinned, and a laceration is effected. If a rupture of the internal and middle coats alone takes place, the external coat remaining entire, the blood may separate the latter to a greater or less extent without forming a sac; it then causes what has been termed by Laennec, the dissecting aneurism. Cure of Aneurism.—Nothing has been added by later writers to the observations of Mr. Hodgson on the subject of the spontaneous cure of aneurism, and we cannot do better than to’extract his own terse summary of the subject: first, the whole tumour may be removed by sphacelation, in consequence of extreme inflammation excited by the distension of the surrounding parts ; secondly, the tumour, as we have already had occasion to observe, may assume such a position as to obliterate, by its pressuro, the superior or inferior portion of the artery communicating with the sac; and thirdly, the gradual deposition of fibrine in the sac and the artery leading to it, may render them impervious, and allow a subsequent * “ The Diseases of the Arteries,” &c., p. 35.