since the publication of Dr. Baillie's Morbid Anatomy. Mr. Cooke has done every thing that abridgment and condensation, without affecting perspicuity,and good arrangement, withouttotally changing the character of his author, could accomplish ; and we cannot doubt that his translation will eminently contribute to promote the study of pathology, and a more intimate knowledge of the writings of Morgagni in this country." " The manner in which the work is translated merits great applause. The language is good and correct without being affected; the style is perspicuous without diffuseness ; and, what is of infinite importance in a work purely of science, all unnecessary ornament is carefully shunned. The peculiar manner of the original is well preserved." " In conclusion, this work, independent of its general utility, will, we conceive, be particularly suited to two orders of medical readers. It must, in the first place, be one of the most valuable works which the student of pathology can possess. Its form and compass are such, that he may easily, and without misapplication of time, not only read it, but almost commit its substance to memory, after becoming moderately well acquainted with healthy anatomy. It will be an inestimable companion to the clinical student, whether at the bed-side of the suffering individual, or witnessing in the dissecting-room the appearances after death. The second order of readers to whom we think this book particularly calculated, embraces all those of our professional brethren whom local situati(m, or the incessant drudgery of business, must in a great measure preclude not merely from reading, but even consulting such a book as Morgagni. To such, while it is difficult or irksome to evolve the leaves of a mighty folio or quarto, it will be a matter of comparative facility to look over the pages of this well-printed octavo, the execution of which is in every respect calculated to invite perusal. Lastly, to all medical readers of every rank and kind, this work will be found not unserviceable, and we trust, that its perusal will only confirm the opinion which we have now delivered." Edinburgh Medical Journal, January 1823. Preparing for Publication, by the same Author, A TREATISE ON THE Derangements of the Digestive Organs, Intended to elucidate their influence on remote parts, and on tiie mind, and vice versa, by cases which have occurred in the Author's practice.—In one small volume, 8vo. H. TEArE, I'KINTUR, TOWIiR-IIILL, LONDOV .