267 DIAGNOSIS OF OVARIAN TUMOURS. When the tumour and uterus move together, or, if the uterus be drawn up out of the pelvis, difficulties in diagnosis may be experienced. If the tumour be cystic, it may be ovarian with a short pedicle, a broad ligament or parovarian cyst, or, a cystic disease ot the uterus. When it is solid, it may still be ovarian, dermoid, fibrous, or can- cerous ; or it may be a fibrous tumour of the uterus. A fixed pelvic tumour is probably neither ovarian nor uterine, but if either, it is cancerous. In an ovarian tumour, the uterine sound will rarely go beyond its two inches, unless complicated with pregnancy or some uterine disease. In cystic disease of the uterus, it may enter for six or more. The uterine sound should not be used too hastily for diagnostic pur- Caution in poses, because when pregnancy and ovarian disease are combined, evil “sing sound, may follow its use, although it ought always to be employed before operative measures are resorted to. When ascites is present, a pelvic examination will generally detect a vaginal rectocele, that is, a bulging into the vagina of the posterior wall of the vaginal passage from the pressure of the ascitic fluid into Douglas’s pouch, and this bulging is not met with in uncomplicated ovarian disease, though it may occur when ovarian disease and ascites co-exist. I have found this point of great diagnostic value for many years, and was pleased to read that Dr. Peaslee had mentioned it as one of value. “ Solid uterine tumours,” writes Tait, “ besides the absence of fluctua- tion, have in addition two vascular signs which I have never met with in ovarian tumours, viz. an aortic impulse which may be seen and felt, and an enlargement of the uterine arteries to be felt in the vagina.” In pregnancy, there is also to be seen the peculiar purple livid con- dition of vagina which does not exist in other pelvic tumours, the changed appearance of the nipple, enlargement of the breasts, &c., &c. I have often found the rectal digital examination for diagnostic pur- I poses to be great, and particularly in young or old virgins; but I cannot speak from personal experience of the value of the introduction of the hand. Professor Simon, of Heidelberg, however, speaks highly of it. On the Value of Tapping for Diagnostic Purposes. When there is any doubt as to the true nature of a cystic abdominal Diagnostic tumour, a preliminary tapping ought to be performed, and the physical value of nature of the fluid examined, although an ovarian fluid in our present taPPin8- state of knowledge is not to be recognised by any definite physical or chemical characters. Drs. Washington Atlee and Peaslee, however, inform us that the fluid of an ovarian cyst may be distinguished from all fluids by the presence of a peculiar cell which they call the ovarian Ovarian granule-cell, which is about the size of a pus-cell, round and full of celis. granules, and Mr. Thornton has recently confirmed these observations (‘ Path. Soc.,’ March 16tli, 1875); adding, moreover, that large pear- shaped, round, or oval cells, containing a granular material with one or several large clear nuclei, with nucleoli and a number of transparent globules or vacuoles are characteristic of malignant tumours. ■When, from what appears to be a monocyst, the fluid drawn is Of fluid, clear, slightly opalescent, and limpid, of a low specific gravity, about 1005, and non-coagulable by heat or nitric acid, or if coagulable by heat the coagulum is re-dissolved upon the addition of boiling acetic