595 AMPUTATION OF THUMB. no account, unless absolutely required, to interfere with the palm of the hand; his incision in the palmar surface must never go beyond the fold of the joint. In performing this operation the surgeon is to take charge of the amputated member, an assistant holding the hand, separating the fingers, and compressing the radial and ulnar vessels. With the hand pronated, a vertical incision should be made about one inch long with a sti’ong scalpel over the dorsal aspect of the head of the metacarpal bone, and from its distal end over the joint the knife should be made to pass up one cleft of the finger close to the bone to be removed, round the palmar surface of the finger in the fold, and through the second cleft to the point from which the circular incision started, the tendons and ligaments being divided as cleanly as possible (Fig. 623). The joint can then be opened and the finger removed. In a labouring man, it is wise not to remove the head of the metacarpal bone unless diseased, although in the higher classes it is sometimes expedient to take it away with bone forceps, to allow the neighbouring fingers to be brought closer together, and thereby to improve the aspect of the hand. With the same object it is at times wise to take off the head of the metacarpal bone of the little or index finger obliquely, i.e. in a direction sloping upwards away from the median line of the hand. In amputating either the little or index finger at this joint, the same form of incisiou may be made, the outer flap under both circumstances being somewhat larger than the inner, in order that the cicatrix may be placed close to the adjoining finger, and thus out of all harm’s way. If the incision be made so as to allow the scar to fall over the exposed aspect of the hand, the result is very inconvenient, and often painful, as the hand naturally rests on its outer borders. The same arguments apply to the amputation of the thumb, one Amputation long external skin flap adjusted to a shorter flap in the cleft being oftlluml,‘ far superior to the palmar and dorsal flaps usually adopted. But it may be here stated, that amputation of the thumb ought to be a very rare operation, as it is far better practice in all cases of injury to the thumb, where there is no possibility of saving it, simply to cut off any sharp point of bone, trim up the soft parts, and allow the stump to granulate, than to make what is sometimes called a good job of it by amputating the organ higher up; for any stump of a thumb, however short or ugly, is of use. In the hand here figured (Fig. 624) the man was an engineer, and he has been able for years to follow his occupation with but little inconvenience. To describe other amputations of different parts of the hand is unnecessary. As little as possible should be taken away, and this by making skin flaps only, care being always observed to divide the tendons by a clean cut, and as high up as possible. The ingenuity of the surgeon and the wants of the individual case will suggest the best means by which the latter can be supplied. Amputations of the Lower Extremity. Fig. 024. Ought to be very rare. Hand after amputa- tion of part of thumb, index and two outer fingers. Amputation These are of more importance than those of the upper, from their extrandty**