374 ON FRACTURES, Diseased bones pre- disposed to fracture. Fracture from muscular action. Fractures in insane people. Ormerod’s observations. Diseased bones are always predisposed to fracture from slight causes, more particularly the rickety and cancerous, and those that have atrophied from any cause, or are the subject of fragilitas and mollities ossium, and likewise bones that are weakened by the presence of tumours or some syphilitic or other inflammatory affection. In diseased or brittle bones muscular action may be enough to cause fracture. Thus, I have known a thigh to be fractured in turning in bed, in an epileptic attack, and in swinging it over the side of a cart; the humerus, in the act of hugging a wife; and in a man, set. 26, from throwing a stone; the clavicle, from lifting a heavy weight; the ribs, in coughing; the radius, from wringing clothes; and every sur- geon knows how frequently the patella and, more rarely, the olecranon are broken from muscular spasm. Mr. J. Anningson, of Burnley, has also recorded a case of a woman, set. 42, in which the upper three fourths of the tuberosity of the calcis was fracture, and displaced upwards by muscular action (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 26th, 1878). “ From a review of the observations made on the bones of two insane patients,” writes Dr. Ormerod (‘St. Bart. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1870), “it may fairly be inferred that the brittleness of the ribs depended on a morbid condition of the bones, and that this condition wms general, affecting different parts of the osseous system coincidently, though more marked in the ribs than in some other more compact bones. The process was essentially one of absorption of the internal structure of the bone, the osseous tissue being replaced by an excessive deposit of the fatty matters normally existing in its interior. Thus, the usually invisible membrane lining the Haversian canals, and forming the coats of the vessels lying there, was thickened into a membrane of cognisable struc- ture and dimensions. The space for this thickening was obtained by removal of the innermost concentric laminae; and from this point a change was propagated which resulted in or tended to the removal of each entire Haversian system. In the whole bone there was a loosening of the mutual connection of the laminae and an obscure disintegration of the osseous structure itself and a general infiltra- tion of oily matter into the substance which had intruded itself within the Haversian canals, and into whatever part of the compact structure of a bone could find room for it.” In confirmation of these views I may mention, that I have been attending with Dr. Black of Canonbury, a middle-aged lady, the sub- ject of dementia and epilepsy, who in nine or ten fits, none of them having been violent, broke a bone, and on several occasions two. The Fig. 475. Impacted fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. Taken from a man, set. 64, who recovered from the accident.