379 ON FRACTURES. its forms. The inhalation of chloroform at times is a valuable aid in Chlorform. the reduction of a fracture. If, when the fractured bones haves been reduced, muscular spasm is Division of so severe as to render it impossible to keep them in sit'd, a condition tendons, which is not uncommon in fracture of the leg, the tendon of the offending muscle may be divided. In otherwise intractable fracture of the leg, there is no operation of greater value and attended with less evil than the division of the tendo Achillis. In a general way, how- ever, the muscular spasm ceases after the first three or four days. When the fracture has been reduced, and by manipulation co- Splints, aptated or “set,” splints or other mechanical appliances are neces- sary to keep the bones in their normal position, and the simpler these appliances are the better, so long as they fulfil their purpose. These splints should always be well padded, and the pads so adjusted as to fit into the inequalities of the limb, and protect it from any local pressure. They should be firmly and immoveably fixed to the limb by inelastic straps or bandages and the seat of fracture as a rule, should be left exposed for the surgeon’s examination, in order that the fracture may be re-adjusted if displacement take place. To cover up a broken bone by bandages or splints is a mistake. The position of the bone during the progress of repair should be always open to view, the former practice being based on hope, the latter on certainty. Pott’s rule, that the splints should include the joint above as well as below the fracture is sound, though it cannot always be followed. Every joint, however, should be fixed when by its action the broken bone is rendered movable. When one bone is broken in a limb where double bones exist, the second acts as a splint and keeps up extension. Under these circum- stances a simpler apparatus is required to keep the fractured bone quiet and restrain the action of the muscles that move it than under other circumstances. Extension is a valuable and necessary adjunct to other treatment. Extension, and should be kept up by means of weights, pulleys, or such other appliances as the ingenuity of the surgeon may suggest. These means however, will be described in the treatment of special fractures. After the setting of the fracture, the essential point to be observed After- in its treatment is, the immobility of the broken bone; and next to treatment, this, its exposure to observation during the progress of repair to render certain that the bone has maintained its right position. The treatment of compound fractures is similar to that of simple. Treatment of plus that of the wound with its complications and the broken frag- compound ments or projecting portions of bone, “but rest of the bone is the fraclures- great object we have to aim at.”—John Hunter, 1787. These fractures should be “ set” in the same way as the simple, great care being observed in the manipulation that the soft parts are not more injured; loose fragments of broken bone must be taken away, projecting portions excised, and the bone reduced, the wound being en- larged when necessary to facilitate this act; the injured parts, too, ouo-ht to be thoroughly cleansed and all wounded vessels twisted or ligatured ; the bones should then be fixed immovably by means of splints, inter- rupted splints being often required. When the wound is not very ex- Scaling of the tensive, it should be sealed by means of a piece of lint saturated with *ouud. blood, or, with what is better, the compound tincture of benzoin. If