COMPLICATED FRACTURES. 438 Summary. By way of summary, compound fractures into joints should he regarded as cases of wounded joint, and treated accordingly, the amount of hone comminution and displacement having an important influence in determining the question and nature of operative inter- ference, when such may be called for. . In large joints, where excision is inexpedient or dangerous, amputa- tion must be had recourse to; in others, where excision is a sound operation, it should he preferred. In the ankle- or wrist-joint where the articular ends of the bones project, they should, except in young subjects, be removed. Comminution Comminution of bones is a complication that requires a few observa- tions, although in simple fractures it does little more than render difficult the treatment of the case and increase the risk of some short- ening or deformity. When, however, it is the result of a direct force from a “ spent ball,” or other projectile, the comminution may be very great, the bone also may be fissured and with the soft parts contused; the danger of the case under these circumstances being much aggravated, not only from the direct effect of the injury, but from the ostitis that is so liable to follow. In compound In compound fracture, bone comminution has, too, an important lacture. influence for harm; adding greatly to the risks and dangers of sup- puration and diminishing the probabilities of a successful result; since each piece of bone often acts as an irritant and retards recovery, and the fragments too often subsequently die. It is always well, there- fore, in these cases to remove the detached portions, and, when the extremities of the bones are rugged, to excise them. Large pieces cf hone, however, that are held by their periosteal coverings, must not be interfered with. This splitting and comminution of bone is most frequently met with in gunshot wounds, the conoidal of the present day splintering far more than the round bullet of former times. Projecting In all cases of compound fracture where difficulty is experienced in pieces of reducing the projecting ends of the broken bone, the best course is to bone. remove them with a saw, particularly when they are sharp; com- minuted fragments should also be taken away. When much bone has, however, been removed, the surgeon should be careful not to separate the parts too much, for fear of want of union. The subject of dislocation and fracture has been discussed in the chapter on dislocations. Fracture from gunshot wounds will receive attention in the chapter devoted to gunshot injuries.