URINARY CALCULI. 89 to a large size, are irregular, and mould themselves to the position in which they are placed, often filling the bladder. Their colour is white, grey, or dull yellow, their consistence friable and more earthy than any other variety, sometimes so soft as to resemble moist chalk. Their appearance on section is thus described by Mr. Taylor in the catalogue of the calculi of the Royal College of Surgeons of England “ They are frequently composed of concentric laminae, which in general adhere hut slightly to each other; between the laminae shining crystals of the triple phosphate are often observed; or some of the laminae are entirely wanting, and these form a white friable mass like chalk; in others, they appear semi-crystalline, as if made up of numerous small crystals confusedly aggregated together. In calculi that have a crystal- line and glistening texture the triple phosphate is most abundant, while the calcareous phosphate is in excess in those which have an amorphous earthy appearance.” 8. The carbonate of lime calculus is a very rare form. Tliudichum says that prostatic calculi sometimes consist almost entirely of this sub- stance. In Guy’s Museum, No. 218760, such a vesical stone exists of a snow-white colour, with a nucleus of uric acid. Odling says that calculi which have undergone partial decomposition in the bladder often contain this ingredient. 9. The uric (of Liebig) or xanthic oxide calculus which bears a close relation to uric acid, is as rare as the last. Dr. Marcet detected the substance in a stone of eight grains’ weight, hut no remains of it are at Guy’s. Stromeyer re-discovered it in a stone weighing 335 grains, removed by Langenbeck, which was laminated, and of a bright brown colour. A portion of this calculus is in Guv’s Museum, No. 2145". 10. The fibrinous calculus of Marcet and Prout requires notice, although, according to Bird, it must he regarded as a portion of dried inspissated albuminous matter exuded from an irritated kidney. Such pseudo-calculi present considerable lustre and a vitreous fracture. 11. The uro-stealitli calculus seems to be made up of fatty matter. It has been described in Heller’s ‘ Archives,’ 1844-5, and by Moore in the ‘ Dublin Quart. Journ.’ for 1854. In Hunter’s collection there is likewise a fine specimen of the kind. 12. Blood calculi have likewise been described by Marcet, and Roberts has recorded one taken from a sheep by Mr. Lund of Man- chester. All recorded cases have been connected with renal haematuria. Silica, and also the urates of soda and lime, are occasional ingredients in a stone. With this brief description of the varieties of stones, for much of which I am indebted to Poland’s article in ‘ Holmes’s System,’ it may be well to consider if any diagnosis of their nature can he made before their removal, and for this purpose the character of the urine is of great value. If it be acid the stone is either uric acid, oxalate of lime, or a mix- ture of the two; and, as the uric is more common than the oxalate the probabilities point to the former. When the urine contains either ingredient, the nature of the layer that is being deposited is esta- blished. Gouty people are more prone to uric acid than to oxalate calculi. Carbonate of lime calculus. Xantliic oxide calculus. Fibrinous calculus. Uro-stealith calculus. Blood calculi. Diagnosis of stone from character of urine.