DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. 342 Extension upwards. Cock’s liieiiiod. Diffienll ies when chloroform not used. After- treatment. placed on the other side of the doorway, make steady extension This is only a modification of Sir A. Cooper’s plan of bending the extended arm over the knee, placed in the axilla with the patient sitting, using the humerus as a lever; and is, doubtless, a good one. Should these means fail, success may be secured by drawing the arm vertically up- wards, as practised by White, of Man- chester, in 1764, and recently advocated by Mr Lowe, of Burton-on-Trent (‘ St. Barth. Rep.,’ 1870). In 1864,1 succeeded by these means in the case of a subglenoid disloca- tion of one month’s standing, in a man set. 64, the method of manipulation and exten- sion having failed; and again, more recently, in a similar case of twenty-four hours’ standing, in a gentleman, set. 30, when every other means had proved unsuccessful (Fig. 441). Mr Lowe places his patient in a sitting posture on the floor, and then stands behind himonasofa forcibly extending the dislocated arm upwards, the scapula being kept fixed by the surgeon’s foot. In all cases, the extension should be gradual and steady, the counter-extension effective; no jerking or great force should he allowed; pulleys are to he looked upon as dangerous appliances; with the use of anesthetics they should be abandoned. In recent disloca- tions they are never needed ; and in the old, adhesions should be broken through by forcible rotation and flexion of a joint rather than extension. Extension forwards is at times beneficial. It proved successful in my hands in a case of subspinous dislocation of three weeks’ standing in a man, set. 75. In a neglected dislocation of twenty-five days’ standing, Mr. Cock succeeded in 1859 (vide author ‘ On Diseases and Injuries of Joints,’ 1859) by the following plan, all other means having failed :—“An air- pad, made of vulcanised india rubber, was placed in the axilla, and the arm firmly bandaged to the side, the air-pad thus being made to exert a powerful outward pressure upon the head of the bone. Upon removing the bandage upon the third day, the head of the bone was found to have returned to its natural position.” Without chloroform, obstacles to the reduction of a dislocation of the shoulder are muscular spasm, and the difficulty of replacing the head of the bone through the rent in its capsular ligament. With chloroform, the resistance of the muscles is an element which has not to be considered, the second one alone existing. In old dislocations, the presence of adhesions is an extra element of difficulty. After the reduction of a dislocation the arm should be bound to the side for a week, and kept at rest for a fortnight or more, all violent exertion being forbidden for several mouths, the object being to give time for the injured parts to recover their power, and ruptured muscles to unite or form fresh adhesions. It happens at times that the trunks of the nerves are so injured as norizontady outwards. Fig. 441. Reduction by extension of arm downwards.