ON GUNSHOT ABDOMINAL INJURIES. 554 Gunshot woumls of heart. Treatment. Gunshot wounds of the heart are always fatal, although not always immediately. In a case recorded in Circular No. Ill of the War Depart- ment of Washington the patient survived fifty hours, the pistol ball having wounded the right auricle. Treatment.—To arrest hemorrhage, to remove fragments of bone or foreign bodies, and to do nothing that can interfere with nature’s reparative processes, are the three great principles of practice to be observed. They are, indeed, precisely similar to those the civil surgeon follows. In bleeding from an intercostal artery, the best plan is to plug the opening, at least so says Professor Longmore. This may be done in the following way :—“ A large piece of linen is laid upon that part of the chest in which the wound is placed, and the middle portion of this linen is pressed into the wound by the finger, so as to form a kind of pouch. This pouch is then distended by sponge or lint pushed into it until the pressure arrests the bleeding; on stretching out the corners of the cloth the pressure of the plug will be increased.” If the wound is not attended with haemorrhage it should be cleaned and lightly closed, the side being strapped up to restrain movement. Hermetically sealing gunshot wounds of the chest is reprehensible. The patient should be laid on the wounded side with the wound down- wards, to allow of the escape of discharges. In all other respects, the treatment of gunshot wounds is similar to that of others, and the remarks already made are applicable to them. Venesection is less commonly employed now than it was by the surgeons of the Peninsular war, and in the American war appears to have been abandoned. The dangers of inflammation of the contents of the chest are the chief source of the surgeon’s anxiety, and his aim ought to be to prevent them if possible, and when present to check them. Haemorrhage should be treated by the application of cold, perfect rest, and the administration of opium. When empyema follows as a secondary result, a free outlet may be made for the accumulated fluid. Gunshot Wounds of the Abdomen. Gunshot These are mostly penetrating, and non-penetrating wounds are often wounds of associated with some injury of the abdominal viscera. Longmore in- the abdomen. forms us that in the Crimean campaign, out of 115 non-penetrating wounds and contusions, 22 deaths occurred, these cases including those of injured viscera. When death follows a non-penetrating wound it is, as a rule, from sloughing of the abdominal walls. Penetratin''. Penetrating gunshot abdominal wounds are generally fatal, nine out of ten of the Crimean cases, French and English, having been so recorded. In the American campaign the mortality was 74 per cent. Shock is always very great, and collapse from haemorrhage the most striking symptom. This is, indeed, says Longmore, “ sometimes the only symptom which will enable the surgeon to diagnose that the viscera are perforated. The mind remains clear, but the prostration, oppressive anxiety, and restlessness are intense. Should life be prolonged, signs of peritonitis will soon appear.” In musket-shot wounds, it is exceptional for any of the abdominal contents to escape from the opening; but when they do, the nature of the wounded viscus will be indicated. The swelling of the margins of the wound accounts for this fact.