131 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. Treatment.—Before a surgeon can say with certainty that a Treatment of stricture exists, a urethral examination is a necessity, and this is an 8tncture- operation in which as many difficulties are met with by the inexpe- rienced as in those far more complicated; indeed, without some skill and confidence, the attempt to pass a full-sized catheter down a healthy urethra constantly fails. To pass a catheter, it is usually wise to place the patient in the Mode ot recumbent position, with the shoulders slightly raised and the knees separated, the surgeon observing that he is lying quite straight, with the abdomen exposed to the navel, this point being the best guide to the line of the urethra. A large metallic instrument (No. 7 or 8 being the best) should be selected for the examination, and made moderately warm by being dipped in warm water or rubbed by the hand and tho- roughly well oiled. The operator should stand on the left side of the patient, and raising the penis with his left hand introduce the end of the catheter into its urethral orifice, keeping its point during the intro- Position of duction of the first three or four inches well to the lower surface of auroc0u- the urethra, in order to avoid the lacunm of the urethra that exist in the roof of the passage. The handle of the instrument at this step of the operation, may be directed over the left thigh of the patient, I or, what is preferable, maintained over the median line of the body in the direction of the umbilicus. With the left hand he may then gently draw the penis up the instrument which he with the right Manipulation allows by its own weight to slip down the passage, simply directing it with a light hand. When its end has reached the bulbous portion of the urethra the handle of the catheter must then be gently depressed in the central line of the body, and if no obstruction exists, the bladder will he entered; the point of the instrument during this movement being kept well along the upper surface of the urethra. In a healthy urethra, indeed, the surgeon has little more than to guide a metallic instrument into the bladder, the weight of the catheter being alone nearly sufficient to allow it to pass down the passage. Half the errors committed in catheterism arise from a non-appreciation of this fact; the desire to pass the catheter originating efforts that inter- fere with the entry of the instrument into the bladder under proper guidance. When a stricture exists the catheter will be arrested in its course; where and, under these circumstances, it should be withdrawn an inch or so stricture and passed on again, with the handle slightly altered in direction. If exia,s- the resistance is still felt the instrument should be withdrawn and one of a smaller size employed, and on this failing to glide by the obstruc- tion a yet smaller one, and so on till the stricture is entered. The seat of stricture or strictures, as well as the nature of the con- traction, will be made out by this process. If much pain attend the examination the surgeon has employed either too much force or an irri- table stricture exists, and if bleeding follows, this latter probability is strengthened, particularly if no violence has been employed. Catheter- Avoid force, ism, indeed, ought never to be attended with violence, and if gentle measures do not succeed, no other should be attempted. In passing a catheter, some prefer the patient to be in the erect Catheterism position, but I cannot recommend it; there is more chance of inflict- in erect ing injury in this position by the patient moving, and the surgeon has Position- not so complete a control over his instrument or patient as when he is