ON THE TREATMENT OE KNEE-JOINT DISEASE. 469 “ I entered the tenotomy knife a little above the top of the great tro- chanter, and carrying it straight down to the neck of the thigh-bone, divided the muscles and opened the capsular ligament freely. Withdrawing the knife, I carried the small saw along the tx-ack made— pursuing this by pressure of the fingers— straight down to the bone, and sawed through it from before backwards, in the direction represented in Fig. 557, which shows the saw applied to the anterior surface of the neck of the bone. The section of the bone was accomplished in four minutes. No haemorrhage followed, and a good recovery took place with a stiff limb.” When the saw is used, it should be held at an angle of 135° to the line of the shaft of the femur (Fig. 557). A narrow chisel, however, is an equally good instrument for the purpose. In my four cases the neck of the thigh bone was readily divided in less than five minutes, and the wound above the tro- chanter healed in a few days; the boys walking in eight weeks. I did not attempt to obtain movement in any, being well satisfied with the results secured; although before I operated on the last, I was alive to the fact that my friend Mr. Lund, of Manchester, had operated with such success upon a man who had both liip-joints anchylosed in a straight line with the body, and, as a consequence, could not sit, that after the operation excellent motion was obtained in each liip-joint, and the man could 3it up in a chair with the body nearly perpendicular, and the thighs comfortably placed on the seat; he could moreover support the weight of the body upon the legs. (‘ Brit. Med. Jour.,’ Jan. 29,1876.) When there is no neck of the femur to be divided or the muscles \y|len tjlere and soft parts about the minor trochanter of the bone are so contracted is no neck to and rigid as to render it probable that the shaft of the femur cannot ,lle hone, be brought down to a right line, Gant’s operation (‘ Lancet,’ Dec. 1, 1872) should be performed; that is, the femur should be divided by a Gant’s small valvular wound subcutaneously below the trochanter, either by operation, means of the saw as employed by Adams, or chisel as suggested by Volckmann and advocated by Maunder, the same care to exclude air being employed in the operation as has been advised in Adams’s. Both these operations are superior to Barton’s, who divided the femur between the trochanters, and to Sayre’s, who excised a wedge of bone from between them. Fig. 557. Rule for application of the saw. Drawing showing the lino of sec- tion of the neck of the thigh- bone in Adams’s operation. The Treatment of Diseases of the Knee-joint. This may be taken as a type of the treatment of all joint diseases. On the Acute synovitis is usually the result of a wound, and should be treated treatment of according to the principles laid down in a former page, viz. by rest and the kne °f