URINARY CALCULI. 88 Phosphate lime calculus. Triple phosphate calculus. Fusible calculus. to me by Dr. Proufc and Dr. Willis that this alteration in tint may in some way depend upon changes produced in the sulphur.” They are soft in consistence, and on sec- tion, present a very imperfectly radiated structure with no tendency to a develop- ment of concentric layers. They yield easily to the knife when scraped, and form a perfectly white powder, whether the cal- culus be green or brown. The fracture is crystalline. 5. Phosphate of lime calculus.—There are two varieties of this form ; the one as described by Wollaston of renal origin, consisting of neutral phosphate of lime. These usually have a smooth polished sur- face of a pale brown colour, and are regularly laminated—the laminae being so slightly adherent as to he easily separable into concentric crusts; in some, lines are seen radiating in a direction perpendicular to the laminae. These calculi contain a considerable proportion of animal matter. The other form is of vesical origin and composed of phosphate of lime similar to that of hones, and hence often called “ bone earth ” calculi. They are more common than the former, and constitute irregular masses resembling mortar, or a granular, semi-crystalline powder, enveloped in a tenacious mucus ; these latter being more con- cretious than stones. There are three cases on record in which the phosphatic calculus has been followed by other forms. Foreign bodies, as a rule (and vesical calculi of long standing are such) have the earthy phosphates deposited upon them. 6. Triple phosphate, or ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate calculus is rare. The College of Surgeons possesses but three specimens, and Guy’s only two. No. 2154< in Guy’s Museum shows one which has no nucleus, but a central cavity lined with delicate crystals of triple phosphate, resembling the crystals of quartz in the cavities of flints, while No. 2152 is a section of a large calculus of the kind on a nucleus of a tobacco pipe. Fig. 341 represents such a calculus formed round a piece of broken catheter, and oc- curred in the practice of my friend Dr. Kitchener. 7. The fusible calculus, or the phosphate of lime with phosphate of magnesia, and ammonia calculus, is the most frequent of the phosphatic calculi. It is generally due to the presence of ammoniacal urine from cystitis, and constitutes the crust that forms on other calculi, or on foreign bodies introduced into the bladder. These calculi increase Fig. 341. Triple phosphate calculus with nucleus of a piece of catheter. Fig. 340. nail *>' izre Cystic oxide calculus. Guy’s Mus., No. 52143.