FRACTURED RIBS. 87 is liable to be followed by inflammation of the lung itself or of the pleura. Fractured ribs generally unite in about a month; and where they Period have not been kept quiet, considerable callus may be thrown out, or required for a false joint formed. repair. Diagnosis.—Pain at the seat of injury, associated with a peculiar Diagnosis, catch in the breath of the patient and the general avoidance of any- thing like a full inspiration, are somewhat characteristic symptoms of a fractured rib, more especially when they show themselves at once after direct or indirect violence. At times, too, the patient will complain of a grating in the part, and, on the application of the hand over the seat of injury, if the patient be made to cough, crepitus will be felt— Crepitus, this crepitus being caused by the friction of the ends of the broken bone. When the seat of fracture is beneath a thick layer of muscles or fat, this symptom may, however, escape detection; nor should it be too closely sought after when others indicate the nature of the injury, as the manipulation required to elicit this sign is sometimes consider- able, and any approach to violence or over-manipulation is always injurious. When emphysema complicates the case as indicated by a more or Emphysema, less diffused puffy swelling which crackles on pressure, there will be no doubt as to the lung having been injured, since this symptom is caused by the escape of air from the lung into the cellular tissue about the seat of fracture. This may be either local or general; when associated with hcemoptysis, it is fair to infer that the lung has been penetrated ; fliemoptysis. the severity of the mischief being gauged by the extent of the em- physema and the amount of the haemoptysis. Treatment.—The object of the surgeon in the treatment of a Treatment, simple fracture of the thorax is, to maintain the ribs at rest, which should be effected by the application of strips of strong adhesive Strapping, plaster two inches broad, extending from the sternum to the spine, and from at least three inches above to three inches below the seat of injury, each strip being applied so as to cover half of that which preceded it (Fig. 317). By this method, the movements of the broken ribs are restrained without those of the opposite side being interfered with. It is, moreover, both in comfort and efficiency, far superior to the old method of encir- cling the chest with a flannel roller; in- deed, it generally affords speedy relief to all symptoms. When the case is compli- cated with emphysema or even haemoptysis the same treatment should be carried out, for in these more severe cases the neces- sity of maintaining the immobility of the ribs is just as necessary as in the less severe. In rare cases in which much displacement has occurred, a sheet of felt or gutta percha made soft by hot water and moulded to the part Gutta perclm is of great value, the mould being subsequently fixed by strapping as described. The patient should be kept quiet, though not necessarily in bed. Rest. Fig. 317. Bandage. Strapping in fracture of ribs.