Inflammation of tendons. Treatment. Relieve tension. Necessity of early incision. 300 AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. Virchow is said by Holmes to have recorded the fact, that a similar ossification of the muscles of the left arm of the Prussian soldier takes place, and is termed “ exercise bone.” Inflammation of Tendons. As an acute affection, this is most serious and gives rise to severe local and constitutional symptoms. It is met with as a consequence of a severe strain or laceration of tendon, or of some punctured or other wound Involving the sheath. It may begin in one toe or finger and spread upwards to the palm, and so on to other tendons and even up the forearm. The local symptoms are pain with the external evi- dences of inflammation, heat, redness, and swelling; the swelling being deep-seated while the pain soon extends up the arm beyond the seat of mischief. The constitutional symptoms are those of more or less severe pyrexia. If surgical interference is not brought to bear upon the case at an early period, suppuration must soon appear with the local symptoms of throbbing and aggravated local distress, and the constitutional symptoms of rigors, excitement, and depression; inflammation of the absorbents and their glands will probably complicate the case. Under still more neglect, sloughing of the affected tendons, and dif- fused inflammation with suppuration of all the parts involved in the disease will ensue. A finger, hand, or forearm, may be jeopardised or sacrificed, if the inflammation be very active or the treatment with which it is met insufficient. Absorbent inflammation and blood poisoning (septicemia) are common accompaniments of this affection. Treatment.—This affection is very amenable to surgical control, and a free incision into the swollen part is the best means of arresting its progress by relieving tension. The operation not only relieves pain, which is caused by the tension of the fibrous tissues from the effusion beneath, but arrests the progress of the affection, by preventing the inflammatory effusion burrowing up the theca of. the tendon. For these objects a clean cut down to the theca should be made as soon as hardness of the parts, with external evidence of inflammation, appears. If pus escape the practice must be good, but if serum only, the operation will tend to arrest the progress of the affection at its onset, prevent the formation of pus, and probably check the disease. The incision should be vertical over the middle line of the finger and the centre of the tendon; no vessel or nerve of importance being there in the way. When suppuration exists, the surgeon must follow up with his lancet every line of inflammation and suppuration, for in no tissue does more harm ensue from retained fluids than in the fibrous. In the very earliest stage of the inflammation warm fomentations and possibly leeching may be beneficial. Elevation of the limb undoubt- edly relieves pain, the hand being higher than the elbow, and the elbow than the shoulder. A saline purgative is often serviceable. But the sur- geon must not lose time by such temporising means ; for tension of the part means its death by strangulation, if not mechanically relieved, and medicines, have no material influence upon the affection. When suppura- tion appears, tonics and liberal diet are required, as well as stimulants