162 PHIMOSIS. treated by circumcision. In exceptional cases, where a narrowing of the prepuce is more marked than an elongation, the prepuce may be slit up (Fig. 369), but in children circumcision is the better operation. In some instances, however, where the penis is very short, the fault resting more in the penis itself than its skin covering, circumcision should not be performed, for I have known, under these circumstances, the operation to fail, even when well done j in such cases the prepuce should rather be slit up to the corona and its mucous covering turned well back and fixed to the skin. Slitting plan. In minor cases thz slitting plan should be carried out; the skin and its mucous lining being divided in the middle line either by the intro- duction of a bistoury guided by a director beneath the prepuce, or by means of a pair of sharp scissors. The surgeon must be careful in doing this, to divide the mucous membrane right hack to the corona. In the adult he should then turn the two flaps backwards, and fasten the mucous to the skin flap by means of some fine sutures. In the infant there is no necessity to stitch. When the prepuce requires divi- sion to expose a sore or some warty growth, the above plan should be selected. Circumcision Circumcision, is an operation that requires great nicety, for it fails if sufficient skin is not taken away and the mucous covering of the glans is not fully divided up to the corona, and it does not turn out well when too much skin is removed. The following is the plan I have for years adopted and taught, and have never known to fail if properly carried out:— Mode of The first point is to decide how much skin is to be removed, operating. which can satisfactorily be determined by applying a pair of long dressing forceps to the penis, which should be allowed to rest in its natural position, on a level with its corona, and closing them as soon as the glans penis has been allowed to slip backward. The integu- ment in front of the forceps may then be amputated with a scalpel (Fig. 370.) The forceps should now be taken away and the mucous covering of the glans be divided in the middle line, well up to the corona (as in the slitting operation) and turned backwards, the two flaps being stitched to the skin by fine su- tures. In adults, a fine uninterrupted suture is probably the best; in in- fants, a strip of dry lint wrapped round the parts is all that is necessary. The glans penis in both these operations should be completely sepa- rated from its mucous covering, all secretion removed, and the fraenum divided when short. Tig. 370.