150 RUPTURED URETHRA. 5. The external division of the stricture is an excellent operation in obstinate cases of permeable, contractile, and irritable strictures; in all cases of extravasation of urine in which perineal incisions are called for, and also, in long indurated strictures complicated with urinary fistulas. 6. Perineal section, Wheelhouse’s or Cock’s operation, is good in all cases of impermeable stricture or obliterated urethra, complicated or not with urinary abscess or fistula, in which a free outlet for the escape of urine is essential. 7. Internal urethrotomy, except iu penile or in the obstinately irritable or contractile strictures, is not often required, and the treat- ment by caustics is dangerous. 8. Cicatricial strictures should be treated as others; but they are far more obstinate, and require more frequently external ure- throtomy. On Ruptured Urethra. Rupture of urethra. Mode of oucurreuce. Symptoms. Treatment. Catheterism. The secondary effects of an injury to, or a rupture of, the urethra have already been considered under the heading of traumatic stricture; and it has been shown, that in at least 6-65 per cent, of the cases of organic stricture, an injury was the assigned cause. It has also been shown that the worst and most intractable cases of stricture, as well as the majority of examples of obliterated urethra are of this kind. I propose now to consider the subject of ruptured or injured urethra with its immediate effects and treatment. In the majority of instances the injury is caused by some direct violence applied to the perinseum, such as a fall astride a post, plank, fence, or chair, a blow or kick on the perineum. In not a few instances, the injury has been produced by the passage of a cart wheel across the pelvis, though it may be somewhat difficult to understand how such a result can be produced by this cause, unless some fracture of the pubic portion of the pelvis coexists; but explain it how we may, in practice we meet with cases of ruptured urethra following the passage of a wheel across the pelvis, and unconnected with any other distinct evidence of fracture. The characteristic symptom of a rupture or laceration of the urethra is the passage of blood, which appears usually as an immediate result of the injury, which may be little or profuse in quantity, although it seldom endangers life, and, as a rule, subsides without treatment. If the injury has not been severe, it is just possible that this is the only symptom by which the laceration can be recognised; and if some time has elapsed between its receipt and the calls of nature to relieve the bladder, micturition may be completed with little or no difficulty, and convalescence re-established. It is not often, however, that the subject of a lacerated or ruptured urethra escapes so easily, for in the majority of cases, retention or extravasation of urine is the result, and for the relief of this the advice of the surgeon is generally at once sought. When called to attend a patient who has been the subject of an injury to the urethra suffering from simple retention, the first object is to attempt the passage of a catheter; and, if the urethra be not completely torn away and there is not much blood locally effused,