TUMOURS OP BONES. 529 become the seat of cancer, and, within a short time, I had three such cases under care, in two of which the tibia was the seat of the disease, necrosis having existed in both for upwards of twenty years; and in the third, although the femur apparently became necrosed twenty-two years before the man came under my observation, the cancer evidently began in the skin over it, and extended down the sinuses into the bone. Fig. 596 was taken from the limb of this patient during life, Fig. 595 was taken from the limb after amputation at the knee-joint in another case. In a man I treated years ago, the os calcis and the soft parts over it were the seat of the disease, and the bone after amputation was found infiltrated with cancerous epithelial elements; and more recently (1878) I amputated the foot of a woman which had been the seat of cancer for twenty-five years, and of necrosis for ten. The Diagnosis of Tumours of Bone. In most cases an approximation to truth can only be made. A globular tumour situated in the articular end of a bone, and ex- Diagnosis, panding it but not involving the joint, of slow, steady, and often pain- less growth in a young subject or adult, is probably myeloid. A more elongated or ovoid tumour situated in the shaft of a bone, of more rapid growth, with full veins in the soft parts covering it, and a semi-elastic, unequal feel, in a young subject, is probably a periosteal cancer. A firm, fibroids growth, of a somewhat globular form, of gradual increase and unequal surface, fibrous in one spot, bony in another, in an adult, is probably an osteo-sarcoma, while a more indu- rated growth with a botryoidal outline, and a similar clinical history, is probably an osteo-chondroma. Pain, rapid and diffused growth, with unequal density, glandular enlargement, venous obstruction, and wasting, generally indicate cancer. Gradual, painless increase, a defiued contour, globular, botryoidal, or in ridges, with no venous obstruction, glandular enlargement, or disturbance of the general health, usually indicate a benign tumour. The more globular the outline the greater the probability of the growth being myeloid. The older the patient and the more botryoidal the growth, the greater the chance of its being enchondromatous. The slower the growth, the more local and divided into septa, the greater the chance of its being osteo-sarcoma. When a tumour is periosteal, by making firm pressure below the tumour, the bone will be made out to be on a lower level than the growth. When the tumour is endosteal and the bone expanded, on making firm pressure below the surface of the bone, the bone will be felt to rise gradually from the unaffected part over the surface of the growth so as to form a shell for it. Treatment.—A tumour of bone can only be effectually treated by Treatment, excision, and when it involves the articular end of the bone and encroaches upon a joint amputation is too often necessarv. When the whole bone is involved as in a cancer, nothing but amputation can be mt*t o entertained, and it is usually well to amputate high above the disease, in cancer.°n If the tumour is placed in the head of the tibia, an amputation at the knee-joint may be performed, or, where this is inexpedient, just above the condyles. If the condyles of the femur are the seat of the disease the amputation should be at the centre of the shaft, it bein«- justifiable to amputate at the hip-joint only when the disease’is too ex- vol. ii. 34