DISLOCATIONS. 332 When reduction cannot be accom- plished. Propriety of attempting reduction of old dislocations. To reduce an old dislocation. On compound dislocations. inflammation show themselves, cold, in the shape of ice in a bag, should he employed; leeches are seldom called for. Three or four weeks are at least required for repair to take place before any useful free movement of the joint can be allowed, although when no inflammatory symptoms appear, passive movement may he permitted at the end of two weeks; but, in dislocation of the hip, no walking or standing should be permitted for a month. When reduction cannot he accomplished after a reasonable attempt, a second one may be made at a subsequent period after the effects of the first have passed, that is, if any sound hope exists of success being secured; some modification of the means employed probably suggesting themselves to the surgeon, upon reflecting as to the pecu- liarity of the case and the cause of his failure. When the patient is an adult the difficulties and prospects of the case should be laid before him and his opinion taken; not, however, as to the desirability or the reverse of the attempt, for such an opinion belongs to the surgeon and his colleagues only, hut as to the risks that must he run, for in many cases failure of reduction, more particularly of forcible reduction, is followed by some destruction of the new joint that nature has partially formed, by some inflam- matory change that may end in the destruction of the joint, or in ren- dering its usefulness still less promising. With respect to the propriety of attempting the reduction of an old dislocation, no .definite rules can be laid down, and since anesthetics have been introduced, those originally given by Sir A. Cooper and generally followed, require modification. Sir A. Cooper gave three months as a limit to the attempt in the shoulder, and eight weeks in the hip; yet Sedillot reduced a dislocation of the shoulder more than a year after its receipt, Brodhurst on the 175th day, Smith (D.S.) at the seventh and ^ tenth month; whilst Breschet reduced a dislocated hip on the seventy-eighth day, Travers and my colleague Mr. Durham at the fifth month, Blackman (of Cirencester) at the sixth month. Yet such cases must he rare. Ball-and-socket joints are also more readily replaced than others. The best guides the surgeon possesses for his decision are found in the amount or absence of repair that is present in the dislocated joint. When the movement is good, there is small reason for making the attempt; for, writes Fergusson, “ after three months the use of the limb is not, when reduced, greater than that which it would have acquired in its dislocated state.” When the movements are very limited, a cautious attempt to re- duce the dislocation is hardly likely to be followed by a had result, at whatever period it is made; but, as previously stated, the patient and surgeon should take counsel together on the point and share responsibility. To facilitate the reduction of an old dislocation, it is needless to say, some anaesthetic should be employed, and all adhesions broken down by free rotation or forcible movements of the joint. When this has been effected, the head of the bone ought to be replaced by manipulation, or by slight extension, forcible extension being inadmissible. When tendons are very rigid and forbid movement, they should be divided subcutaneously, but this should be done some days before reduction is fully attempted. Compound dislocation is one of the most serious accidents that can