239 DISEASES AND TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. of great use. The urethra can he readily, dilated by it, the growth made to project through the aperture left in its side, and the whole destroyed without doing any injury to the healthy tissues. Polypi of the female bladder may protrude through the urethra, and Polypi of put on the appearances of a urethral growth; but a complete examina- tion of the urinary organs will prevent the surgeon falling into any error of treatment. Fibro-cellular tumours at times grow in the urethra and cause much local Fibro- distress. I removed one from a lady some years ago, with a good lesult, j which occupied the whole floor of the urethra to the neck of the bladder, urethra. Irritable-Bladder in women is a very common effect of uterine dis- irritable turbance or displacement, as well as of rectal disease. Such a symptom bladder, demands the closest investigation to ascertain its cause. It is mostly secondary to disease of the uterus, &c., and not often dependent on bladder affections. CHAPTER XXVI. DISEASES AND TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. Sore Nipples are sources of great distress and too often the pre- Sore nipples, cursors of mammary abscess. They are doubtless often caused by some aphthous condition of the child’s mouth, but as frequently result from some unusual sensibility of the skin of the part, and at times from want of care. In first pregnancies mothers should always harden Prevention, their nipples by the daily use of some spirit lotion, or eau de Co- logne and water; and, where they are not sufficiently prominent, a breast glass or gutta-percha shield, such as that sold by Elam, of Oxford Street, should be worn, as nothing tends more than these means to prevent this troublesome affection. When sore nipples occur at the time of suckling, the same shields Treatment, should be worn, great care being observed to dry the nipples after use, and never to leave them in the child’s mouth after the process has been completed. The application of the glycerine of tannic acid, Applications. Richardson’s styptic colloid, tincture of catechu, a solution of nitrate of silver, gr. v to the ounce of water, or an ointment of extract of rhatany, gr. viiij to 5ij of the oil of theobroma, are good applications. Castor oil as an external application, or collodion, is sometimes useful. When cracks exist, it is a good plan for the mother to draw out the Mode of nipple by means of the old-fashioned feeding bottle before giving it drawing out to the infant, the mother’s nipple being put into the central opening, tlle niPPle- and her mouth drawing the artificial one. Another ready method is the application to the nipple of the mouth of a wide-necked empty bottle that has been heated by hot water, the nipple, as the bottle cools, being pressed into the bottle and rendered prominent in a painless way. Engorgement of the breast takes place, when, from any cause, a Engorgement woman is unable to give suck, either from defect or disease of "the nipple of tlle breast, or the death of the child. Under these circumstances, the gland may become tense and distended, and, if left unrelieved for twenty-four or thirty-six hours will probably inflame. When the gland, however, can be relieved by the application of an infant to [the nipple, or next best by a bottle in which a partial vacuum has been made by means of hot water, the mother’s mouth, or a very carefully applied breast pump, » the engorgement may subside and no harm accrue.