176 CHANCRE. Soft chancre. Generally with a suppurating bubo. Lee’s observations. The three forms of syphilitic sore. Conclusion. Fringing sores. This form of chancre is commonly associated with some induration not suppuration of the first row of the inguinal glands, the multiple indolent bubo. Its secretion consists of epithelial debris, of globules of lymph more or less perfectly formed or disintegrating, and of serum, not pus, and not auto-inoculable. In debilitated and unhealthy sub- jects, adds Lee, infecting sores will suppurate as any non-specific lesion would do, and in such cases it is sometimes very difficult to dis- tinguish the secretion produced by the local disease from that which depends upon constitutional peculiarity. The soft suppurating chancre is often multiple, has an excavated surface with neatly shaped and cut edges as if the wound had been punched out. It has an irregular and worm-eaten surface secreting abundance of pus. It is prone to spread rapidly and to become pba- gedsenic. It has usually a soft base, but if otherwise, it will have what Ricord has described a phlegmonous hardness, and not a defined one, as in the syphilitic chancre. It is commonly associated with a sup- purating bubo, and secretes pus, which “ has the property of always reproducing its specific action when applied to another part of the same body, or when inoculated upon another person.”—H. Lee. The experiments of Fournier, Rollet, and Lee’s observations, led the latter surgeon to “ conclude that if a venereal sore yields a secre- tion capable of being inoculated so as to produce the specific pustule, the evidence, so far as it goes, is in favour of its being a local disease, and of its not requiring constitutional treatment. If, on the contrary, a disease which we believe to be primary syphilis yields a secretion which is not auto-inoculable, then the evidence is against the local character of the affection and indicates a constitutional mode of treatment.” In this we read the type of the simple local venereal sore. In a clinical point of view, however, this great distinction between the two forms of chancre is not always definable; and consequently an intermediate class of cases in which syphilis occurs has to be recognised, approaching in their clinical features more the soft sore. There are, therefore, three forms of syphilitic sore, which the Government Committee on Syphilis has thus well described :— One characterised by induration throughout its entire course; One, soft in its early stage, and becoming subsequently indurated; and one soft throughout the whole course, but which, unlike the simple local sore, is followed by constitutional disease. Hard sores do not of necessity give rise to syphilis, whilst soft sores may. And it is an undoubted fact, that the question of induration or non-induration is greatly determined by the position of the sore; chancres upon the female genitals, simple or syphilitic, and chancres upon the glans penis, being rarely hard. The point, therefore, resolves itself into this—that the indurated chancre with a fair amount of probability, although not certainty, may be the precursor of syphilis, and not a merely local disease. The soft or non-indurated sore, in exceptional cases, may be due to a syphilitic inoculation, and be followed by the constitutional symptoms, although in the majority of cases, it is a purely local affection. A crop of soft sores fringing the prepuce, or surrounding the corona, is, in all probability, a simple and non-syphilitic disease.