77 DISEASES OP THE PROSTATE. Atrophy of the prostate is often found in the aged and in the young; On atrophy and in rare cases it is due to some arrest in its development. jn °f prostate, the majority, it is genuine atrophy or fibroid degeneration, probably caused in some by syphilis. Such a condition, however, does not give rise to any symptoms by which it can be recognised during life, nor is it a cause of any distress. Calculi of the prostate are not rare, and may be found embedded in On calculi of the organ as small stones varying in size from a grain of sand to Prostate- bodies of much larger dimensions. They are often very numerous are sometimes amorphous, but generally laminated. Wollaston says they are composed of 84 per cent, of phosphate of lime, | per cent, of carbonate of lime, and 15 per cent, of animal matter. “ The prostate gland, like other glands, is liable to an inspissation Mode of of its secretion, producing small yellow, sometimes red, pale or colour- ,ormiltlon- less bodies, scattered throughout the follicular structure. These, at first, are said to consist entirely of organic matter, which Virchow believes to be derived from a peculiar insoluble protein substance mixed with the semen; but sooner or later, these formations are believed to irritate the mucous membrane, causing phosphatie depositions, which become encrusted upon the organic matter, and thus the genuine pros- tatic calculi are found.”—Poland. When embedded in the orgau and not interfering in any way with the Symptoms, urethra, they cause no symptoms; when encroaching upon the urinary passage, they may cause obstruction, but certainly must give rise to urethral and, probably, bladder irritation. They are accompanied occa- sionally by ulceration and suppuration of the surrounding parts. A prostatic calculus may project into the urethra and increase, Calculus may the urethral portion subsequently extending backwards into the extend into bladder and forming a prostato-vesieal caculus. In ‘ Guy’s Hospital ladder. Fiq. 325. Prostate Prostato-vesieal calculus. Reports’ for 1857, a case recorded by Poland, with references to others, will be found (Fig. 325). The calculus has a dumb-bell shape In all these cases, the urethra is usually pervious; the passage of a sound, however, as a rule, detecting its presence—a grating sensation being experienced in the passage of the metal instrument over the