531 HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY OP BONE. in the jaws, and in Chapter XIII, attention has been directed to them. Whether they ever occur in the long bones is an open question, though in 18701 trephined the enormously enlarged and expanded shaft of the tibia of a man, ait. 30, for gradually progressive disease of fifteen years’ standing; the bone having been the seat of a fixed pain in its centre. I did so under the impression that the case was one of abscess, but hav- ing perforated a dense shell of bone, an inch thick, I came upon a cavity the size of an egg, which contained no pus though it was lined with the soft velvety material usually met with in abscess, and what escaped from it was not to be distinguished from the blood that flowed during the operation. The operation was quite successful, and a rapid cure ensued. I believe this case to have been one of cyst in the bone. Hydatids are found in bone, and in Guy’s Museum there is the head of a tibia containing a cyst or echinococcus which holds many smaller cysts within it; also another specimen illustrating the existence of hydatids in the vertebrae. In 1869 I treated with Dr. Freund, a case in which a large hydatid escaped from the expanded condyle of the humerus after a puncture in front of the joint. The hydatid had clearly made its way from the bone into the elbow-joint, and through this externally; a good recovery with a stiff joint ensued. Hypertrophy and atrophy of bone are pathological realities, although during life it may be a difficult if not an impossible task to recognise such conditions. Hypertrophies and chronic inflammatory changes are consequently often mistaken the one for the other, although in the former the enlargement is gradual and painless, and, in the latter associated with local pain and other evidence of inflammation. In some cases the bone is enlarged and its cancellous structure expanded (porous hyperostosis); in another it is enlarged, but at the same time more dense (sclerotic hyperostosis). These changes are best seen in the calvaria (Fig. 597). In Prep 106835 in Guy’s Museum, the bone is at least double its normal thickness. In rare cases, the hypertrophy is clearly due to increase of function, as shown in another preparation in Guy’s Museum, 100015, taken from a man who was a paralytic, and who had used his arms for progression, here the bones of the upper extre- mity are larger than those of the lower. In the majo- rity of cases, however, the hypertrophy is inflammatory, and even in the case which Mr. P. Hewett mentioned in his well-kuown ‘ College Lectures,’ where the man’s skull increased so impercep- tibly year by year as to be only recognised by the gra- dual increase in the size of his hat, the disease was traced to an injury. This aflection is pathologically interesting, though surgically nothin^ can be done for it. = I'iq. 597. Hypertrophy and atrophy of the hone, prep, in Guy’s Museum. Hydatids. Hypertrophy and atrophy ot bone. Porous hyperostosis. Sclerotic hyperostosis.