Superficial. Deep. Haemorrhage may occur. Examples. Haemorrhage into trachea. Division of the tongue. 18 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. the necessities of these cases, in order that in the hour of danger he may be prepared to act with energy and decision. In the majority of cases of “ cut throat ” the wound is only of a superficial nature, and simply involves skin, or skin and muscle, and does not implicate either the pharynx or the respiratory tract. These cases require no other local treatment than that usually employed for skin wounds, such as .sutures and warm-water dressing. When the wound is of a deeper character, it may penetrate into the pharynx and air-passages, or involve the deep vessels, the dangers of the case being much determined by the position of the wound. My colleague Mr. Durham in an able article in ‘ Holmes’s Surgery,’ (2nd Ed.) asserts, that of 158 unselected cases the wound was Above the hyoid bone in . Through the thyro-hyoid membrane in Through the thyroid cartilage in Through the crico-thyroid membrane in Into the trachea in . 11 cases. 45 „ 35 „ 26 „ 41 „ The respiratory tract was opened in about two thirds of the cases. In all cases of cut throat, hcemorrhage as the direct result of a divided or wounded artery or vein is to be apprehended; and, although from the deep position of the carotid artery and jugular vein these vessels in the majority of cases escape injury, yet when they are divided death is usually rapid. Partial or complete division of some of the branches of these vessels is, however, not unfrequent. A man in Guy’s, tot. 21, in a fit of despondency cut his throat, and died from profuse haemorrhage into the lung before help could be obtained. The blood was found after death to have come from a divided superior thyroid artery. An inmate of St. George’s divided the left common carotid artery and wounded the internal jugular vein with a penknife, and died before the house surgeon could arrive. “A gentleman, who committed suicide by cutting deeply between the os hyoides and thyroid cartilage, partially divided the external carotid artery on the right side, just as it was given off; the flow of blood was immense, and he was found dead within ten minutes of the in- fliction of the wound.” (Fothergillian Prize Essay for 1836, by my father, the late Mr. T. E. Bryant.) In Guy’s Museum, Prep. 171179, the left internal jugular vein maybe seen divided; the cut being between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and proving speedily fatal. Prep. 17119 shows division of the inferior thyroid artery. Blood may flow into the trachea and, suddenly or slowly, cause asphyxia ; it may coagulate over the orifice of the larynx with the same result. Mr. Le Gros Clark has also shown (‘ Surg. Diag.,’ 1870) how air may enter the circulation through a partially divided vein and destroy life in twenty-four hours. When the incision is above the hyoid bone and deep, the tongue may be divided, and the loosened portion by falling over the orifice of the larynx may cause sudden death by suffocation. In wounds of this description, the surgeon should consequently guard against the possi- bility of this contingency taking place by passing a thread through the tongue and drawing it forward.