396 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. Of the greater tuberosity. Symptoms. Of the shaft. Shortening. Displace- ment. Symptoms. Treatment. Boyer’s rule. leather splint, the angle being well pressed into the axilla, with one half fixed to the arm, and the other to the thorax. In all these cases the surgeon should explain to the patient that some impairment of the mobility of the limb may be expected, and some shortening in impacted fractures. Fracture of the greater tuberosity is a recognised accident, and is usually associated with dislocation of the humerus forwards, the scapular muscles drawing the tuberosity backward. Dr. R. Smith, in his excellent work on Fractures, gives a description of two of these cases. He describes a remarkable increase in the breadth of the articu- lation, the projection of the acromion and flattening of the deltoid, as the most striking features of the injury. He also draws attention to the vertical sulcus corresponding to the bicipital groove, formed by the head of the bone on the inner side and the displaced tube- rosity on the outer, as one of the characteristic symptoms. Fractures of the shaft of the humerus are common, and more readily made out as well as successfully treated than any other fracture. When oblique, they are frequently followed by some degree of shorten- ing, hut this result is of little practical importance, as it interferes hut slightly with the functions of the hand. Such fractures are as commonly the result of direct as of indirect violence, muscular action being by no means an uncommon cause. I have already mentioned an instance in which it occurred in a man during a marital embrace, and a second produced by throwing a ball. Lonsdale, Malgaigne, Hamilton, and others have recorded similar instances. When the fracture is transverse, there is no displacement. When oblique, the tendency of the lower fragment to ride will depend upon the line of the obliquity and its position. WTien the line of fracture is below the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment will have a tendency to he drawn outwards; when above this point, the upper fragment will be attracted inwards by the pectoral muscles, the lower fragment being drawn upwards and outwards by the deltoid. Loss of power in the arm, mobility of the bone, crepitus, local pain, and deformity are ample symptoms to indicate the accident. An error in diagnosis ought not to occur. Tkeatment.—This is not really difficult, although from the fact that united fracture is more frequently found in this bone than in any other, it would appear as if the practice were less successful. In a measure, this conclusion must be regarded as correct, and I would explain it by the want of a due appre- ciation of Boyer’s rule of treat- ment, viz., to keep the joints above and below the broken Fig. 485. Splint for fracture at the shaft of the humerus.