Symptoms enlarged prostate. Irritability. Cystitis. Its ultimate effects. 74 HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. other of the lateral lobes a great irregularity of the urethra is the result. This enlargement of the prostate may so derange the course of the muscular fibres about the trigone of the bladder as to produce a bar or ridge that mechanically interferes with micturition. Guthrie and Mercier have described such a bar as occurring independently of these changes, the bar consisting of the elastic structure and mucous mem- brane of tbe neck of the bladder. Thompson also asserts that, in “ very exceptional instances, the bar is undoubtedly to be met with.” I have never known such a bar as that last described, and give it only on the authority of the names quoted. It is said to occur earlier in life than prostatic enlargements, and to give rise to similar symptoms. Hyper- trophied prostates are sometimes met with, measuring four inches in diameter, and are common at half that size. They have been found to weigh ten or twelve ounces, the normal weight of the prostate being four and a half drachms. Symptoms.—So long as the vesical orifice of the urethra is not mechanically encroached upon, prostatic enlargement may proceed to an extreme degree without giving rise to any definite symptoms, and retention of urine is very often the first feature that attracts notice. But, under these circumstances, it generally will be found that the patient has had for some time a difficulty in micturition; that the bladder has hesitated to contract when the desire to pass urine mani- fested itself; and that either there has been less force in the expulsion of the fluid than formerly, or, that the water has flowed in a more languid stream. Irritability of tbe bladder will generally be present, the act of pass- ing urine being rapidly followed by the desire to do so again, and the difficulty of the act gradually increasing. As the disease progresses, a feeling of weight and fulness in the perinmum and of irritation about the rectum will soon appear; the rectal irritation and the irritability of bladder increasing equally, till at last the two acts of defsecatiou and micturition take place together, the violent straining and tenesmus giving rise to pro- lapse of the rectum or piles, and leading the patient to believe that the bowel complication is the cause of his disease, if not the disease itself. At a still later period and as the result of the bladder being unable to empty itself, a residuum of urine remains behind, and tbe bladder consequently gradually expands from its accumulation, and becomes exhausted by its ineffectual expulsive efforts. Tbe urine, moreover, at the same time, decomposes and acts as a direct irritant to the mucous membrane of the bladder. In this way, inflammation of tbe bladder, and subsequently incontinence from the overflow of a distended organ, is produced, this inconvenience existing day and night.' The ultimate result of this affection left to nature is the same as that of all obstructive urethral diseases; from the pressure of retention the bladder suffers first, and subsequently the ureters and kidneys; organic renal disease is thus set up, and the powers of life are gradually sapped by exhaustion, death being often hastened by severe bladder symptoms, hsematuria, or urajmic poisoning.