ON OVARIOTOMY. 278 ness in operating, gentleness in manipulating, and thoughtful atten- tion to every detail are absolutely essential to success, the safety of the patient must depend upon her quietness and passiveness under the surgeon’s treatment. Under these circumstances the value of some anaesthetic cannot be too highly praised, for the patient by it is not only rendered insensible to pain, but her perfect quiescence is guaranteed, and her passiveness under the hands of the operating surgeon completely ensured. The vomiting that occasionally follows the use of an anaesthetic is the only argument against its use, but it is an evil which must he endured for a positive good. By the use of the nitrous oxide gas fol- lowed up by ether, or of the chloroform mixture, of alcohol one part, chloroform two, and ether three parts, as recommended by the Chloro- form Committee of the Med.-Chir. Society, this vomiting is certainly less common than alter the use of chloroform alone, and as a general anaesthetic it should be employed. Keith prefers ether, and Wells the bichloride of methylene for the same reason. Extent of the incision into the abdominal parietes.—The temperature of the room, the position of the patient, and the propriety of the administration of chloroform having received our attention, the opera- tion itself next claims consideration, and the first thought naturally is as to the extent of abdominal incision required, as there is still a want of unanimity in the practice of different surgeons upon this point. Before commencing, the careful surgeon will see that the bladder has been emptied by means of a catheter; the linen of the patient well drawn up out of harm’s way and free from the chance of becoming soiled by the use of waterproofing; the limbs of the patient well pro- tected and kept warm by a pair of drawers, and covered by a clean sheet, either with or without a blanket. He should see also that all his assistants are carefully arranged, and special duties assigned to each, and that every instrument that may be required is clean and nigh at hand. He may then proceed to make his incision, the patient having been brought completely under the influence of an anaesthetic; though previously he should determine as to its length. From Mr. Walne, Sir J. Simpson, and Dr. Clay’s practice it might he argued that the long incision should always be adopted, since their success has been great, and in their practice the long incision has been invariably employed. From the practice of Dr. Keith, Mr. Spencer Wells, and others, the short incision would appear to he the better, for their success has at least been as good as that of Dr. Clay and others, and as a rule the short incision has been the one selected. I regard the truth as between the two extremes. When the tumour can. he removed with facility by means of a short incision, a long one is clearly not required; and, when the tumour is monocystic or nearly so and free tumour large from abdominal adhesions, it may be so removed. But when the an semi tumour is large and semi-solid, or, when adhesions exist which cannot be readily broken down by the employment of gentle traction upon the growth, it is the best practice, doubtless, to make a long incision; as by so doing the removal of the growth is much facilitated, the causes of its abdominal retention and the connection of the adhesions are satisfactorily ascertained, and, as a consequence, can be dealt with with greater safety. Vomiting does not contra- indicate use of chloroform. Extent of incision requisite. Care to have llie bladder empty. Incision may be long or short. Short preferred. tVhen solid, then long incision