514 NECROSIS. Repair after removal of sequestrum. Treatment ot necrosis. Removal of sequestrum. Await its detachment. When necessary to interfere. ing it from its bed. In this way, large masses of bone are sometimes discharged by natural processes. After amputation, this result is fre- quently seen. Some years ago, I saw with Mr. Cock and Dr. Iliff, of Kennington, a case in which the upper part of the shaft of the humerus which had separated at its upper epiphysis, was gradually pressed out from below through the deltoid muscle and projected outside the acromion process for about an inch; Mr. Cock had only to complete the process which nature had so well commenced, and draw out the bone, which was four inches long (Fig. 578). Fig. 578. Upper half of the shaft of the humerus thrown off at its .junction with the upper epiphysis by natural processes. Prep, i.10460. Every surgeon is familiar with a somewhat similar act in other cases where large pieces of bone, and far more frequently small ones, are sometimes discharged by natural processes; but such successful natural efforts are rare in comparison with the failures, surgical art being demanded, as a rule, to assist in a cure. When the dead bone has been shed, the sequestrum extruded by natural efforts or removed by surgical skill, the bone granulates and thus heals. When this process takes place upon its surface, the steps are very visible, and when the sequestrum has been removed from a cavity, the same process goes on, but with it another acts with equal force, and that is the gradual contraction of the periosteal shell of new boue that surrounds the sequestrum. A bone in this way is reformed and repaired. Treatment. — When the presence of dead bone has been made out, its removal is the only sound practice, since the longer it is left in its cavity, the thicker and denser will become the periosteal bony sheath, consequently the probabilities of a natural cure are lessened, and the difficulties of a surgical operation greatly increased. The seques- trum, however, cannot be taken away until it has been thrown off or loosened from the living tissues; although as soon as this result has been effected, the sooner the operation for its removal is performed the better. To interfere too soon before this process has been completed is sometimes injurious, and always futile; to wait too long is simply to add to the difficulties of the case and to postpone re- covery. Bones that are not loose may, however, often be detached by a good twist with a pair of forceps, or raised by an elevator. When the dead bone is found to be loose by means of a probe, by being made to move in its sheath, there should be no hesitation on the part of the surgeon as to interfering; though when this movement cannot be made out, the same treatment may be j ustifiable, as the sequestrum may be so tightly impacted or shut in by granulations, as to be im- movable though still separated. Under these circumstances, the history of the case and more particularly the duration of the disease will be of great help as a guide, for if many months have passed since the inflammation that killed the bone set in, the probabilities of the