459 DISEASES OF ANKLE-JOINT. pathology is identical with that of all other joints, synovial mischief being possibly more common than affections of the bone. Effusion into the joint is readily detected by the swelling and consequent pressing forwards of the extensor muscles of the foot, by the fluctuation between the malleoli in front, and at times behind, and along the bor- ders of the tendo Achillis. Bone enlargement is readily seen by the expanded malleolus or malleoli. Bone abscess may occur in either malleolus or in the astragalus. The pulpy disease makes itself known by some such swelling as is found in synovitis, but the swelling will not be due to fluid, but to the presence of the lowly organised tissue found in the disease, showing itself in a doughy swelling around one or both of the malleoli and beneath the extensor tendons. Disease of the Tarsal and Metatarsal Joints, or, rather, of the bones and joints, are very common ; for it is in the On diseases bones, as a rule, that the disease begins, the joints becoming involved tarsul secondarily. Disease in the joint between the astragalus and os calcis metatarsal may, however, be found alone, and I believe that such disease is com- joints, monlv the result of some lateral sprain of the ligaments that hold Sub-astraga- these bones together; lateral sprains of the foot being more likely to be felt at this articulation than at the ankle, as the astragalus is held so firmly between the malleoli. Disease in this joint is to be recognised by the swelling being beneath the malleoli; the pain produced by any lateral movement of the heel or foot; and occasionally by the grat- ing of exposed bone. The movements of the ankle joint will be un- involved. Disease of the other tarsal or metatarsal bones is indicated by the en- Indications, largement of the bones, as well as by the position of the sinuses leading down to them. The scaphoid bone and joints are frequently affected, this bone being the keystone of the antero-posterior arch of the foot; and when so affected, the disease very commonly extends to the cunei- form bones, there being but one synovial capsule common to the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones. The form of the foot thus affected is very peculiar. “ It assumes,” Appearances writes Erichsen, “ a remarkable bulbous or clubbed appearance; the of the foot, fore part and dorsum of the foot are greatly swollen, glazed, and possibly perforated by sinuses discharging thin unhealthy pus.” (‘ Science and Art of Surgery.’) When diseased and dead, these four bones may be re- moved, and a good foot left. As a single bone, the cuboid is also not rarely diseased, and may be taken away without any detriment. In the case figured (Fig. 548) the scaphoid, three cuneiform, and cuboid bones were removed, and an excellent foot remained. I removed them from a boy, set. 8, by simply enucleating the diseased and dead bones from their beds, and disturbing the periosteum and soft parts as little as possible. Fig. 548. Case. Appearance of foot after the removal of the scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform bones.