REPAIR OF FRACTURES. 386 % Fibrous union. St»gfi8 Of repair. Repair in compound fractures. Unnnited fractures. Causes. relative position of the broken ends of the shaft of the bone and the comminution of the fragments; great displacement and separation of the fragments being bridged over or cemented together by irregular masses of connecting bone tissue. When immobility of the broken bones has not been maintained, the bone cement or provisional callus will be very extensive. In the ribs where it is impossible to prevent movement, there is always some ensheathing callus; indeed, Dupuytren’s ring of provisional callus is constant. In the clavicle also it is common. In other bones, it will vary with the amount of movement that has been allowed in their treatment. When the movement is very great, the process of ossifica- tion will not go on kindly, and ligamentous or fibrous union will remain, giving rise to an ununited fracture, and occasionally a false joint is formed. (A splendid example of this is represented in Fig. 477.) The rapidity with which ossification or true bony union is obtained in fracture depends much on the degree of immobility insured to the broken bones and the constitutional power of the patient. The period in which the several parts of the reparative process are usually completed after fractures of adult human bones are reckoned thus according to Paget:—To the second or third day after the injury, inflammation in and about the parts; thence to the eighth or tenth seeming inaction, with subsidence of inflammation; thence, to about the twentieth, production of the reparative material, and its gradual development to its fibrous or cartilaginous condition ; thence- forward its gradual ossification, a part of the process which is most variable in both its time of commencement and its rate of progress, and which is probably rarely completed before the ninth or tenth week. In open or compound fractures, repair goes on very much in the same way as in simple, and when they are made simple by sealing the wound, precisely in the same way. When the wound is left open and suppuration takes place in the soft parts around the broken fragments, repair goes on through granulation, the granulation tissue subsequently ossifying and passing into bone-cells ; the process of repair under these circum- stances being more gradual than where the reparative material is poured out between the broken bones, and goes on directly to ossify. At times after a simple fracture, but more commonly after a com- pound, the fractured bone inflames, and, as a result, the broken frag- ments die wholly or in part, repair is retarded and cannot be perfected until the necrosed bone has been cast off or removed. In comminuted compound fracture, this result is more common than in less complicated cases. In gunshot injuries of bones this comminution of the bone is the chief point of difference between them and other compound fractures. Compound fractures, as a rule, require for their repair three or four times the period required in simple. Ununited fractures are met with ,when, from any local or general cause, ossific union is delayed or does not take place between the broken ends of the bones, and in by far the bulk of cases, this is the result of a want of that complete rest and quiet which is so essential for the ossific union of a broken bone. When the ends of the broken bone are kept asunder, ossific union is likewise sure to be retarded or prevented, and also when any