DISLOCATIONS OF THE THUMB. 349 zium, the former being the more common accident. Sir A. Cooper described a dislocation inwards, but gave no ease. Dr. P. Hamilton questions its occurrence. Reduction of these dislocations by extension and local pressure is usually readily effected, the bones being kept in position by means of a pad and a good splint extending some inches above and below the displaced bone. Dislocation of the first phalanx from the metacarpal hone is a recog- Dislocation of nised accident, the displacement backwards being the usual form, first^>halanx Dislocation fonoards is a rare one. The first form is usually the result metacarpal of a fall upon the distal end and palmar surface of the thumb, the bone, bead of the metacarpal bone projecting forwards, the base of the first phalanx backwards, and the extreme phalanx being flexed upon the first. The head of the metacarpal bone having probably been thrust forward through the capsule of the joint, and caught between the two beads of the flexor brevis muscle. In some cases, the reduction of this form of dislocation is effected Treatment with ease by simple extension, or, by the pressure of the surgeon’s of thumb upon the displaced phalanx, and for the purpose of extension Fio. 451. nothing equals in value the Indian toy called a “ puzzle,” or tube of plaited reed (Fig. 451). When this is not at hand, strips of strapping W] applied longitudinally to the distal digit and fixed by a circular piece difficulty in will answer the purpose. In some instances all these means fail, and reduction, there is yet much obscurity as to the cause of the difficulty. The numerous muscles and tendons that surround the joint doubtless have a powerful influence, more particularly the two heads of the short flexor with the sesamoid hones, and, when the wound in the capsule is small, these muscles act more powerfully, the base of the displaced hone or the head of the metacarpal bone being held by these parts “ as a button is fastened iuto a button hole.” Under these circumstances, success may at times be achieved by flexing the metacarpal bone of the thumb to an extreme degree, rotating, and then suddenly extending the displaced phalanges; this manoeuvre, as it were, freeing the displaced hone from the many tendons and ligaments that surround the joint, and that doubtless, at times, interfere with its reduction. I succeeded by this method in one case where every other had failed. My friend, Mr. Sells of Guildford, informs me that he has with facility reduced several dis- locations of this form by forcibly bending the thumb back, so as to tilt the base of the phalanx over the head of the flexed metacarpal bone and then extending it. Both these means have the effect of relaxing the short flexor muscle as pointed out by Prof. Fahbri. When all such means as have been mentioned have been unsuccessfully tried, the subcutaneous division of the tendons and ligaments that appear to