148 CAUSES OF DEATH FROM STRICTURE. Its obstinacy. Dilatation Perineal section. Statistics of results in treatment. Causes of death from stricture. cicatrices have a constant and almost perpetual tendency to contract. A traumatic stricture, the result of a contracting cicatrix, is conse- quently in its nature essentially a contractile stricture, and its treatment is, therefore, very troublesome. When treated by dilatation, it will re- contract, and even if treated by perineal section or external division, it is far more likely to return than any form of inflammatory stricture. All forms of treatment are consequently uncertain and unsatisfactory. If dilatation of the urethra is once secured, the introduction of a cath- eter at short intervals is most essential, or otherwise, the canal is certain to re-contract; and, if it is doubtful whether any case of simple inflam- matory stricture is ever really cured, it may unquestionably be asserted that a traumatic stricture will exist for life, and that it will require constant and repeated treatment to preserve even a moderate patency of the narrowed passage. The principles of treatment in both varieties, however, are the same, although the practice may not he so successful. If the urethra be permeable, the treatment by dilatation should be primarily employed and persevered in for some time if success is to be secured. If the stricture is so narrow and indurated as to refuse dila- tation and a grooved staff can be passed through, the operation of external division is the soundest practice, and gives the surest hopes of immediate and future benefit. If the stricture be impermeable, and from its narrowness require immediate treatment; or should its complications, either of extrava- sation or urinary fistula, demand attention, the perineal section must be carried out in the same manner as in the cases previously referred to. If extravasation of urine be present as a secondary result of this traumatic stricture, the same principles and practice which have been advocated in the treatment of simple organic stricture are equally ap- plicable ; as are also the recommendations which have been made for the treatment of periueal fistula. The permanent success, however, of the practice in these traumatic cases is not nearly so great as in the inflammatory, although the practice in both is really the same. It is hardly necessary to illustrate these facts, as the experience of all surgeons will bear them out. To show the greater severity of these cases and the difficulties of their treatment by dilatation, it may be stated, that out of the forty- three examples of traumatic stricture which have been tabulated, in six, or 14 per cent, of the whole number, the operation of perineal section or of external division was absolutely required; whereas, amongst the cases of simple organic stricture, only 6 per cent, re- quired such operative interference—the simple treatment by dilatation answering every other purpose. The Causes of Death from Stricture. There are few local diseases which, if neglected, have a more fatal tendency than urethral stricture; and certainly there are none in which the progress towards evil can be so accurately and clearly traced. If the portion of the urethra situated behind the stricture is the part which primarily experiences the evil influence of the obstruction, the bladder becomes subsequently involved, and last, but not least the ureters and kidneys. The importance of the kidneys in the animal