AMPUTATIONS OP THE LEG. 599 Pig. 627. the length of the anterior, and of skin only, and to divide the muscles and deeper structures by cutting from behind forwards about an inch below the joint end of the tibia, and not after disarticulation; the popliteal artery being thus divided low down where it is readily secured. The patella should not be removed except when diseased. When the operation has been completed, and the articular surface of the femur is found not to be healthy, or reparable, or the flaps too short, the condyles should be taken away, a thin rounded section of bone being removed, or more if the necessities of the case demand. Dr. Brinton (‘ Phila- delphia Med. Times,’ 1872), advises the inter- articular semilunar cartilages being left. After the operation, a troublesome suppuration occasionally takes place in the synovial bursa beneath the extensor muscles of the thigh, and when it occurs it should be dealt with by free incisions. Stephen Smith, of New York, has suggested (‘ Amer. Journ. of stcph Med. Sc.,’ Jan. 1870) the formation of two lateral skin flaps for Smith this amputation, each flap to be formed by an incision commencing hooded one inch below the tubercle of the tibia, and carried downwards aud forwards over the side of the leg (vide Fig. 628) until Stump after amputation at the lelt knee-joiut. Fig. 628. Stephen Smith’s method of amputating. it reaches the under surface, when it is curved towards the median line. I have adopted this method on six occasions with excellent results, and am disposed to think it the best. The stump left is very good, Fig. 629. the cicatrix being vertical and placed well behind the lower end of the femur (Fig. 629). Amputation at the Leg. Amputation of the leg for disease is a very successful operation, only about one case in twelve proving fatal. In young life, it is more successful than at a later period. Amputations for injury are, however, very unsuccessful, at least 60 per cent., or more than half the cases, dying. Pyaemia is a more common cause of death after this form of amputation than even that of the thigh. Fatality Posterior aspect of stump after S. Smith’s amputation at knee-joint, showing cicatrix.