ON GUNSHOT INJUKIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 559 vessels have been injured. When any doubt exists as to the probability of saving the limb the operation should be postponed, and undertaken, if necessary, as a secondary amputation. The experience of all British and Continental surgeons fairly endorses Longmore’s conclusions, that in gunshot fractures of the thigh, while the propriety of practising conservatism in the upper third is clearly indicated, amputation is the safest practice in gunshot fractures of the middle and lower third. M. Legouest, in an essay published in the * Mem. of the Society of Surgeons at Paris/ believes that amputation at the hip-joint should be reserved for compound fractures complicated with injuries to the great vessels, and he advocates the postponement of the operation as long as possible. In gunshot fracture of the head of the femur, where the soft parts Gunshot are not greatly injured nor the bone comminuted, excision of the bone of may be performed, the only case of recovery in the American war from femur such an injury being where this practice was adopted. In Circular No. Ill two such successful cases are recorded out of three, and they in- duce Dr. Otis to “ add that these instances must place excision at the hip for gunshot injury amongst the established operations of surgery.” Out of eighty-seven excisions at the hip for injury in America, eight recovered. In fracture of the thigh the evil of transporting a patient is so Of thigh, great that Stromeyer says, “ I have, during the last campaign, lived to see what I expressed a desire for some years ago, when I wrote, ‘ Above all things it appears to me to be necessary that cases of gunshot frac- ture of the thigh should not be transported to a distance, but should be carried on a stretcher to the nearest house, and the treatment carried out there.’” He speaks most highly of the conservative treatment of all gunshot fractures. When operation is called for, pri- mary measures should always be preferred both for amputation and excision. In f racture of the leg, conservatism has even a better chance, that is, Of leg. where the shaft of the bone is alone implicated; for when the knee is involved, amputation is generally held to be the rule of treatment. Excision should not be entertained, the results of experience con- demning the attempt. Langenbeck in gunshot wounds of the knee Of knee- recommends conservative treatment; amputation being alone required when the soft parts are severely injured and the hones shattered. He lays, also, the greatest stress upon the necessity of fixing the limb in some immovable apparatus, from the moment of the injury to its cure (the plaster-of-Paris splint being preferred), coupled with the appli- cation of ice to the part. In gunshot fracture of the shaft of the leg hones not involving joints, the same rules of practice are applicable as have been laid down for the treatment of fracture of the humerus, &c. In gunshot wounds involving the ankle-joint, amputation is the Of ankle- best practice. In exceptional instances where the injury is slight j°hit. that is, where the bone is simply split into the joint, an attempt to save the limb may be justifiable. Excision, as a primary operation is not desirable; as a secondary oue, where an attempt to save the limb has been made and failed, Langenbeck’s experience is in favour of excision nine out of eleven cases in which he did it after the Bohemian war