AMPUTATION. 581 extension to the limb in the axis of the bone to he divided, as if to draw the patient downwards, though not with sufficient force to effect this result. When any splintering of the bone has taken place the rough margin Splintering ought to be carefully smoothed down with the cutting forceps, care of bone- being observed not to tear away the periosteum. Dr. McGill, of the United States Army, has suggested the propriety Periosteal of making the periosteal flaps as described above to cover iu the end ^dP- of the divided bone iu amputation, and gives three cases in which this was done with excellent effect (Circ. No. 3). I have adopted the plan on many occasions with satisfactory results; in some cases, the end of the divided femur being capped with a mass of new bone.. The bone being sawn through, the stump is to he raised and the Securiug the main artery at once seized; the vessel should be drawn out of its vessels, sheath, firmly held with forceps (Fig. 120) and sharply twisted suffi- ciently often for the surgeon to feel that resistance has gone. The end ought not to be twisted off. The smaller arteries should he treated in the same way, it possibly being the best practice to twist off the ends Torsion, of the small muscular and cutaneous branches. When ligatures are preferred they may be used, the carbolised catgut Ligatures, probably being the best. As soon as the chief vessels have been secured, the tourniquet should be taken away and the stump elevated to assist the venous circulation, the assistant being ready with his finger to compress the main artery of the limb if any vessel remain unsecured. Any nerve trunks that have been cut long in the flaps should be removed to a level with the hone. A stream of iodine water may then be made to pass over the end of the stump to cleanse it of all blood, and check capillary bleeding, and the surface dried with a soft towel, the surgeon satisfying himself that the vessels are all safely secured. The edges of the flaps may then be adjusted and kept in apposition by sutures, which must sutures not be put in too closely, but inserted about half an inch from the margin of the wound, and made to perforate the skin and fat obliquely to the free border of the flap; the most dependent corner of the wound should be left open for the introduction of a drainage tube. Drainage. A posterior splint ought then to be fixed on the stump (Fig. 611), Splint, with pads of lint or sponge to maintain steady pressure upon the base of the flaps, though not on the wound, and a piece of dry lint or gauze, through which a hole has been cut for the end of the drainage tube, is to be applied to the surface of the wound. Cotton wool should then be bound over the stump, or a good large Fig. C12. Thigh stump, with splint. Thigh stump with splint for extension.