AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT. 598 Amputation of tiie thigh Supra-con- (lyloid am- putation. Gi'itti’s. Statistics. Operation. of 69 cases of Callender’s and my own, 4 died, or 1 in 17; and of 119 cases over twenty years of age, 38 died, or 1 in 3; amputation of the thigh for chronic joint disease being nearly six times more successful in early than in middle life. This operation in the upper or middle third, when the muscles are thick, is best performed by means of anterior aud posterior skin flaps aud the circular division of the muscle, or by the flap operation as illustrated iu Fig. 610, the anterior flap being made by cutting from without inwards, and the posterior by perforating. The opera- tion by lateral flaps, whether made of skin or muscle, or skin alone and circular muscle is not satisfactory, the bones having a tendency to appear at the upper angles between the flaps. In amputation at the lower third one long anterior flap may be made, and a short posterior, as previously described under Carden’s operation (Fig. 615). Mr. W. Stokes, of Dublin, advocates (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1870, ‘ Dublin Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ 1875) the supra-condyloid amputation of the thigh, in which the femur is divided at least half an inch above the antero-superior edge of the condyloid cartilage, and the patella de- prived of its cartilaginous surface is applied to the same surface, and fixed there with carbolised catgut sutures. The anterior skin flap is made oval, and the posterior fully one third of the length of the anterior. I have performed this operation in one case with a good result, and have seen it performed on several previous occasions by my colleagues with success. I think well of it, and would suggest a wider trial. My colleague, Mr. Jacobson, has written an interesting paper on it (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Reps.,’ 1878). This operation differs from what is known as Gritti’s in the section of the femur, being about one inch higher up. Amputation at the Knee-joint. This is an excellent operation in all ways, and one that should always be performed in preference to any higher amputation when the special circumstances of the case will allow. It is apparently attended with less risk to life than when a section of the bone is made, and yields an excellent and serviceable stump, on which the weight of the body can generally be sustained. Velpeau revived the operation in 1830, while Mr. Pollock re-called the attention of London surgeons to the subject (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1870). In his paper he states, that up to 1870, 48 cases of the kind had taken place in England, and that 12 died, or one fourth; but since then the operation has been more common. I have now performed it twenty-three times. On 7 occasions for compound fracture of the leg, 6 of which recovered; in 13 cases for chronic disease of the knee-joint or leg, 11 of which recovered; and in 3 cases for gangrene of the leg from arterial obstruction, one of which alone recovered, the operation in the other two having failed to save life. In only two or three of the cases did I remove the patella. In all the successful cases, excellent stumps were obtained (Fig. 627). In performing this operation, a long, broad, anterior flap should be made, which must of necessity be of skin, and also a tolerably long pos- terior, for it is remarkable to what an extent the posterior flap always retracts. 1 prefer to make my posterior flap about two thirds