122 STONE IN THE FEMALE BLADDER. Hemorrhage Pelvic cellulitis and peritonitis. Acute cystitis. Uremia. Calculus in the female bladder. Symptoms. The duration of the symptoms and the size of the stone are conse- quently valuable aids in forming a prognosis. When death takes place from so-called shock, it is probably connected with organic renal disease. In a small proportion of cases, death takes place from haemorrhage ; such a result, however, when uncomplicated, being very exceptional. It does not probably occur once in a hundred cases. Pelvic cellulitis and peritonitis have usually been regarded as common causes of death. Pelvic cellulitis is very insidious, and often only positively made known when some peritoneal complications make their appearance. Its cause has generally been assigned to a too extensive incision of the neck of the bladder, but the careful investigation of a large number of fatal cases suggests the probability, that although a fatal complication, it is one which for the most part arises without uriuary infiltration and as a result of continuity with structures that have become inflamed from injury sustained during the operation, or, from the prolonged presence of the stone. It is also commonly associated with renal disease, and it is now well known, that under such circumstances, the inflammation of serous membranes is very com- mon. It is consequently an open question as to how far the renal disease or the operation is the cause of the pelvic cellulitis and peritonitis. Death from acute cystitis may occur, as it may from the hsemorrhagic diathesis, pyaemia, chloroform, or any accident. Uraemia, as a cause of death, is classed with renal disease. In children, incontinence of urine is apt to follow the operation, par- ticularly when the horizontal position has not been rigidly enforced during the healing process. It is, however, a rare effect. Wasting of a testis may likewise take place from some disease or wound of the vas deferens. I have, however, known this to occur but once. Cases of it have, however, been recorded by Teevan and others. STONE IN THE FEMALE BLADDER. Calculi are doubtless formed as frequent in the kidney of the female as in that of the male, and pass downwards into the bladder, although from the absence of the prostate as well as the shortness and dilatability of the female urethra, they rarely require surgical treat- ment. The records of surgery contain many instances in which large calculi have been passed by natural efforts from the female bladder without any very injurious effect resulting, and Mr. Clogg, of Looe, Cornwall, has recorded a case, in which a stone nearly four inches round was thus passed (‘ Brit. Med. Jour.,’ May 2,1874). But the experience of every surgeon will supply him with instances in which calculi of moderate dimensions have been readily passed, and I have a specimen of mul- berry stone, nearly an inch in diameter, which a young woman thus got rid of. In neglected cases of vesical calculi in women the stone may, however, excite ulceration of the bladder, or be discharged per vaginam. The symptoms of stone in the bladder of the female are very similar