EXCISION OF WRIST-JOINT. 491 found convenient. The operator now turns to the ulnar side of the incision and cleans the carpal and metacarpal bones as much as can be done easily. The ulnar incision is then made; it should be very free, extending from about two inches above the styloid process down to the middle ot' the fifth metacarpal bone, and lying near the anterior edge of the ulna. The dorsal line of this incision is then raised along with the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, which should not he isolated from the skin, but cut as near its insertion as possible. Afterwards the common extensor tendons should be raised, and the whole of the posterior aspect of the carpus denuded until the two wounds communi- cate freely together, though the radius is not as yet cleaned. The next step is, to clean the anterior aspect of the ulna and carpus, in doing which the pisiform bone and hooked process of the unciform are severed from the rest of the carpus, the former with the knife, and the latter with the cutting pliers. In cleaning the anterior aspect of the carpus, care must be taken not to go so far forward as to endanger the deep pal- mar arch. The ligaments of the internal carpal bones being now sufficiently divided, they should be removed with blunt hone forceps; next, the end of the ulna is made to protrude from the incision and sawn off as low down as is consistent with its condition, but in any case above its radial articulation. The end of the radius can then be cleaned sufficiently to allow of its being protruded and removed. If this cau be done without disturbing the tendons from their grooves, it is far better. If the level of the section is below the upper part of the car- tilaginous facet for the ulna, the remainder of the cartilage must be cut away with the pliers. The operator next attends to the metacarpal bones, which are pushed out from one or the other incision and cut off with the pliers, so as to remove the whole of these cartilage-covered portions. The trapezium bone which was left in the early state of the operation, can now be carefully dissected out, so as to avoid any injury to the tendon of the flexor-carpi radialis or to the radial artery, and the articular surface of the first metacarpal bone then becomes exposed and removed. Lastly, the cartilaginous portion of the pisiform hone is taken away, but the non-articular part is left, unless diseased, in which case it should be entirely removed. This remark applies to the hooked process of the unciform. No tendons are divided in this operation except the extensors of the wrist. In order to ensure motion After- of the fingers, passive movements should be performed from a very early treatment, period after the operation. For this purpose, Lister places the limb in a splint with the palm of the hand raised by a wedge of cork fixed below it, so that the joints of the fingers can be moved without taking the limb off the apparatus. When the splint is removed some flexible support is required for some time. ( Vide Lister’s paper, * Lancet,’ 1865.) Excision of the joints of the thumb requires no description, and may be Excision of made by a vertical dorsal incision that interferes but little with the ten- joints ot dons of the part. The operation is very good, and should always be per- formed where possible for disease or injury. I have done it on many occasions with a good result, and at times recovery has been followed by movement. In the case of a man with neglected dislocation in which I performed it, hermetically sealing the wound with lint and the com- pound tincture of benzoin, rapid recovery followed with a movable joint. In a second case, in which I excised the phalangeal joint of the thumb a like result ensued.