Double inclined plane. Perineal pad. Immoveable bandage. Interstitial absorption of neck. 416 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. abduction or adduction of the limb prevented and extension maintained, no pressure being applied over the trochanters. With this splint no Fig. 507. Double splint for fracture of the shaft or neck of the thigh-bone and hip-disease. perineal band is required if the foot of the bed is raised two or three inches. It is as valuable for fracture of the thigh-bone as for disease of the hip-joint. Sir A. Cooper’s plan of placing the patient on a double inclined plane has few advantages when union is to be looked for, and even the broad well-padded belt which he applied round the pelvis in order to keep the broken fragments closely together cannot be recommended; still, where the long splint cannot be worn the inclined plane may be substituted. In the impacted fracture no perineal pad is wanted, as no extension is required. In the non-impacted, where it is used, care must be observed that it is well applied and well padded, particularly in aged subjects; an india-rubber perineal tubular band being better than a leather one. When the necessary confinement to the supine position cannot be tolerated and bed-sores appear, it may be necessary to give up the long splint, and, under these circumstances, it is wise to fix the hip, pelvis, and thigh, in some strong immoveable casing similar to that employed in hip disease (Fig. 552), the limb being kept extended by means of weights attached to the foot during the setting of the material. The casing may be of leather, felt, perforated zinc, or flannel, with starch, or gum and chalk. To allow the patient to get up without any apparatus is not only to give up all hope of a cure by union, but adds to the local irritation, as the broken fragments will grate against one another and irritate the soft parts around, often causing severe local and constitutional disturbance. Under all circumstances, however, immobility of the broken bone is to be ensured. Interstitial absorption of the neck of the bone is sometimes met with after fracture, and in Fig. 508 the fact is well illustrated, the neck of the bone having almost entirely disappeared, as will be seen at once on comparing a section of tbe injured bone with that of the uninjured, from the same subject (Fig. 509). It is said also to take place after a contusion without any fracture in osteo-artbritis j how far it may occur otherwise is an open question. My own impression is that in all such cases some fracture existed, though it is difficult to prove the truth of such an opinion. The question requires further elucidation.