393 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. chief one of diagnosis between the supposed accident and dislocation but, when dislocation of the head of the humerus exists with fracture of the glenoid fossa, the same symptoms are found. The subject, therefore, requires further elucidation. In suspected cases of this kind the elbow should be raised, in order to press the head of the bone well Treatment, upwards into position, and kept there by sling and bandage. I have seen a case of dislocation of the head of the humerus down- Case, wards and forwards, complicated with a fracture of the lower portion of the glenoid cavity, the broken piece being drawn downwards. Fractures of the humerus form about one seventh of all fractures. Fractures of and are about half as frequent as fractures of the clavicle and scapula humerus, together. They are commonly the result of direct violence, and occa- sionally of muscular action. They may be divided into fractures of the head and tuberosities, shaft, and condyles. Fractures involving the head and tuberosities are usually the re- Fracture of suit of a blow or a fall upon the shoulder, although occasionally they follow falls on the elbow. In a case that came under my care in 1877 and died from other injuries, the greater tuberosity was crushed Causes, off and displaced upwards from a fall upon the shoulder. This accident could never have been made out during life. In all cases, the direction of the violence is an important point to discover, as by it the surgeon obtains the best guide to the position of the fragments as well as the nature of the injury. When the line of fracture follows that of the anatomical neck, it is intracapsular; and when it occurs, the head of the bone may be completely separated and left as a foreign body in the joint; yet such cases are very rare. In others, such as Fig. 481 illustrates, the head is separated and the tuberosity fractured; more commonly, however, the fracture is impacted, the lower fragment being either driven into the head of the bone, or the head driven into the neck, the greater tuberosity, as a rule, being broken (Fig. 482). Dr. R. Smith, of Dublin, states that when this accident exists, the arm is shortened, the acromion process projects, the shoulder loses its rounded form, the shaft of the humerus approaches the acromion, and the head of the bone cannot be felt. When the tuberosity is broken off, crepitus may be detected. In 1868,1 saw such a case in a woman, £et. 59, who had fallen on the shoulder nineteen days previously, the case having been treated as one of contusion. Shortening in the arm of three quarters of an inch, and a distinct prominence of bone with thickening could be felt between the acromion and coracoid processes; while the head of the bone rotated freely in the glenoid cavity. In it, there was some flattening of the deltoid. A good recovery took place with per- manent shortening. I saw also a similar case in 1865, in an old man set. 82, in -which good repair took place. Fig. 482. 'I ^ GrmUr Tuberosity Impacted fracture of the head of the humerus. Prep. 111350, Guy’s Mus. Fig. 481. Fracture of the head and tuberosities of the humerus. Po- Symptoms. land’s case.