Amputation at the shoulder- joint. Double flap operation. 590 amputations at the shouldek-joint. Fig. 617. stretching, the surgeon judging by his eye their required length, while the muscles should be divided by a circular sweep an inch below the base of the retracted flaps, the bones being bared to this extent before they are divided (Fig. 616). Mr. Cock includes the muscles in the flap, but I hardly think this necessary unless the skin is very thin. When the flaps are brought together a pretty stump is seen, and sub- sequently it turns out to be a very good one (Fig. 617). In amputation of the forearm, the mixed form is the operation, the skin flaps being made from the anterior and posterior aspects of the limb, the flap amputation executed by transfixion, being very unsatisfactory, on account of the tendons of the forearm (Fig. 622). In amputation at the wrist-joint and elbow- joint nothing can be better than this mixed method (Figs. 620-1), the surgeon having it in his power, according to circumstances, to make one long anterior, posterior, or lateral flap cover the stump, and thus to secure the cicatrix being out of harm’s way. One of the best stumps of this kind I ever obtained was at the elbow-joint, in which I made a long skin posterior flap, the cicatrix subsequently being placed above the condyles of the bone and in front (Fig. 621). Stump after an ampu- tation of the leg by the mixed method. SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. The subject of amputations as a whole having been considered, I propose now to describe them in detail as applicable to different parts of the body, and begin with the upper extremity. Amputations at the Shoulder-joint. This operation may be called for in cases of injury, when the arm has been so irreparably injured as to render amputation through the tuberosities impossible or excision inapplicable; or for disease, when too extensive to be taken away by a less severe measure; the surgeon always bearing in mind that large portions of the humerus may be resected with advantage so long as the chief vessels and nerves of the arm are intact, and that amputation through the humerus, however high, leaves a far better stump than at the joint. After this operation, when performed for injury, one out of three cases die; but when for disease, one in two. The operation is best performed by means of the double flap opera- tion. A good assistant is required to compress the subclavian artery above the clavicle, or to take charge of the axillary in the lower flap. When the right arm has to be amputated the surgeon should stand beliiud, and when the left in front of his patient (Fig. 618); under both circumstances a deltoid flap should be first made, cutting from without inwards from the posterior part of the axilla to an inch in front of the acromion process, this incision including in its sweep the whole deltoid muscle. Having reflected this flap with a