222 AFFECTIONS OF THE SCEOTUM. Morgan’s suspender. Fatty- tumours. Affections of scrotum. between them; and in my hands this operation has been very suc- cessful. Sir B. Brodie used to divide the veins subcutaneously and apply pressure. Mr. J. Wood, of King’s, subcutaneously surrounds the veins with a double wire noose, and keeps up pressure upon the wire by means of a metallic spring till division of the veins occurs. Lee’s opera- tion is performed as follows:—Under chloroform or not, the scrotum on the side of the varicocele is to be taken between the fingers and thumb and the vas deferens (which may always be known by its cordy hardness) allowed to escape, so soon as this is done, a needle may be passed through the scrotum beneath the bundle of spermatic veins, and a figure-of-8 ligature applied over the needle sufficiently tight to arrest the circulation through the veins, but not to cut the skin over them. A second needle is to be applied in like manner, half an inch or more lower down or higher up as the case may be; and the veins divided subcutaneously between the two needles by a teno- tomy knife. Sometimes the veins may be divided two or three days after the insertion of the pins, but there is no object in delay. The ends of the needles are to be cut short after the operation, and on the fifth day may be removed. A day or so later the patient may get up, wearing a suspensory bandage. As a general rule, this operation is most successful, and not dangerous. It is only to be done, however, when palliative treatment fails. Mr. Morgan, of Dublin, has recently suggested an admirable suspender for varicocele and other affections of the testis, which is illustrated in Fig. 386. It consists of a piece of webbing 4j inches long, 3| inches wide at one end, 4 inches at the other, and gradually tapering to the narrower end. A piece of thick lead wire is stitched in the rim of the smaller end, two tapes sewn along the entire length of the webbing, and the sides fur- nished with neat hooks, a lace, and a good tongue of chamois leather. When the suspender has been applied to the testicle, the tapes are to be attached to an abdominal belt. The size may vary more or less. The lead wire encircling the lower end gives a foundation to the general means of support, and keeps the testis within the bag; the patient can mould it more or less to his convenience, and it need not be worn at night. Fatty tumours are occasionally met with in the cord. I have re- moved one the size of a walnut; and fibrous or fibro-cellular tumours have been met with on the testicle. I have seen one of the latter the size of an orange, excised from the testicle with success by Mr. Hilton. Affections of the Scrotum. The scrotal pouch is very frequently the seat of injury, while the Fig. S86.