CYSTIC DISEASE OP THE BREAST. 256 together the several lobes and lobules, and the dimensions of the inter- Cysts spaces which go to form the false cysts. In a third class, however, dilated1”8 °f *ie ^rue cyst'c adenocele of the breast, the adenoid solid elements are ducts. developed within cysts composed of dilated ducts. In all, the ele- mentary structure of the growths whether these are dense and compact, loose and pedunculated, within false cysts or in dilated ducts, simulates the structure of normal gland tissue. In some, the csecal terminations of the ducts are the most prominent, and in others, the ducts and sinuses; while in a few true milk or cream secretion exists, precisely similar to that secreted by the breast. In fig. 404 every variety of this affection can be seen. In all probability, however, all adenomata are developed in cysts as intra-cystic growths. Dr. Goodhart, in an able paper has supported this view (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1872). Cystic Cancer. Cy9ts in cancer. Diagnosis of true cystic adenocele. Special characters. Is an inno- cent growth. The pathology of cystic cancer is identical with that of cystic adenoma, while the cysts in the one instance contain the more or less solid characteristic lobules of the adenoid growth, and in the other, are filled with the less developed and more irregular, but equally charac- teristic material which goes to build up the cancerous tumour. The diagnosis of these cancers rests, therefore, upon such points as have been already described under a former heading. On the Diagnosis of the “ True Cystic Adenocele” of the Breast. The remarks which have been already made respecting the importance of cysts in the innocent and malignant tumours of the breast are not applicable to all cases; inasmuch as to this rule, as well as to others there is an exception, and in the present case, the exception is to be found in that form of cystic disease of the mammary gland which is essentially a cystic disease of the gland itself, and more particularly its secreting ducts, differing in this way from the other forms of cystic adenocele which are new growths, developed independently of though allied in structure to the breast-gland itself. This true cystic adenocele, however, is of an innocent nature and pathologically allied to the genuine adenocele. It is the tumour originally described by Sir B. Brodie as “ arising by a dilatation of portions of some of the lactiferous tubes,” and, by Mr. Birkett, as duct-cysts distinctly referable to the dilatation of a duct, or to a connection with one, and containing growths which appear to spring from their walls, and these two forms of cystic adenocele are strictly analogous in their nature. In both, the pedunculated or floating bodies possess a structure allied to the breast-gland, and are composed of more or less distinct csecal terminations of newly developed ducts with variable quantities of true connective tissue. This affection is more common in middle than in young life, for out of 14 cases 3 only occurred in women under 30; in 11, in women over 40, while 1 was as old as 71 0 Path. Trans.,’ vol. xvii, p. 283). How, then, is such a tumour to be made out ? and what are the special 'symptoms which characterise it from the other forms of mam- mary tumour ? First of all, being an innocent tumour, it will be found to affect the patient in a purely local manner as all other adenoid tumours. It is a local disease, which at no period of its growth