URETHROTOMY. 110 Perineal section, when necessary. Cock’s operation. Mode of performance of external urethrotomy without a staff. Perineal Section or Cock’s Operation is a more difficult and dangerous operation than Syme’s, and is called for, moreover, in far more severe cases when the urethra is impervious and no guide to the urethra exists beyond that which the surgeon’s knowledge of the anatomy of the parts affords. It should also be re- membered that, as a rule, the normal anatomy has been nearly destroyed, for impervious strictures requiring urethrotomy are usually chronic, as well as complicated with extravasation, suppuration, or urinary fistulaj. The operation I shall describe is that one suggested by Mr. Cock, and known by his name; “ the objects aimed at in the operation can be accomplished, while I doubt if those of any other have ever been fulfilled. However complicated may he the derangement of the ptri- nseum, and however extensive the obstruction of the urethra, one portion of the canal behind the stricture is always healthy and often dilated, and is accessible to the knife of the surgeon. 1 mean that portion of the urethra which emerges from the apex of the prostate, a part which is never the subject of stricture, and whose exact ana- tomical position may be brought under the recognition of the finger of the operator. Thus, when we cannot introduce a catheter by the ordinary method, and even when we cannot tap the bladder through the rectum, it still remains to us to tap the urethra as it emerges from the prostate, and thus to effect the desired communication.” The operation which Mr. Cock has described as “tapping the urethra at the apex of the prostate, unassisted by a guide staff,” is performed in the following manner, and illustrated in Fig. 366. I have seen Mr. Fig. ofiG. Mr. Cock’s operation of tapping the urethra at the apex of the prostate. Cock frequently perform it, have done it myself on many occasions, and have no hesitation in strongly recommending it as the operation for external urethrotomy without a staff. I give it in Cock’s words, taken from ‘Guy’s Hospital lteports,’ 1866:—“The only instruments required are a broad double-edged knife with a very sharp point, a