8 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. Fig. 303. Treatment. Snuff. Abruption. Noose. Rouge’s operation. seldom recognised in an early condition, since they cause no pain and but little inconvenience. A slight excess of discharge is the earliest symptom, and this is generally regarded as being the result of “cold;” but when this secretion is examined, it will be observed to be more serous than is found to exist in an ordinary coryza. The discharge continuing, may at last cause some anxiety to the patient, and, if the surgeon be consulted, a careful examination with a speculum should be instituted, when a polypus or rather a fringe of polypi, will often be observed on the margin of the middle turbinated bone. When the disease has been made out, removal of the growth is the only effectual treatment. Tonics and local astringents may for a time re- tard their growth, but rarely effect a cure. The use of tannin as a snuff has been very successful in my hands in causing the sloughing off of even the largest polypi (‘ Lancet/ Feb., 1867); but the remedy is uncertain in large polypi, although it is always of great value in destroying the smaller, and thus in checking the progress of the disease. I have had several instruments made to apply the tannin, but the bent glass tube is as good as any. It is modified from one made by a patient for his own use, and answers well. The tannin is put into the small receptacle in the upper half, that end of the tube being inserted into the nostril, and the other into the mouth, and the'patient then blows the tannin into his nostril. The removal of the softer kinds of polypi should always be by abruption. Some surgeons employ a long pair of narrow well-made forceps which fix the pedicle, and then by a slight twist and some force, the removal of the growth is effected. When the polypus hangs far back, the introduction of the finger into the mouth and behind the fauces facilitates its removal. The best instrument known is the “ noose,” and that illustrated in Fig. 304 is the form I prefer. It is so constructed that a loop of wire introduced along the septum and half turned, can be made to pass over the polypus and encircle its peduncle. The loop is then drawn home, the growth strangled at its neck, and abrupted. By these means, the polypus is removed as a whole and bleeding is prevented; consequently, by the use of this instrument, the nose can generally be cleared at one opera- tion. In some cases, I have cured the disease by cutting off with along pair of scissors the turbinated bone from which these polypi grow. A few days after the removal of the polypi by the snare, tannin, as a snuff, may be employed. In severe cases in which this treatment has been employed with but poor success. Rouge’s operation, as suggested by him for the treatment of certain cases of ozseua in 1873 may be performed, the operation con- sisting in the elevation of the upper lip and soft parts of the nose from their osseous attachments by means of an incision made beneath the lip through the mucous membrane where it is reflected from the lip into the gums, the lip and nasal cartilages by these means being so freed from their attachments as to allow the surgeon to lift them up