ON OVARIOTOMY. 285 We have learnt that the pedicle may he ligatured in two or three Treatment of parts, dropped hack into the pelvis, and that the ends of the ligatures l)edlcle- may he left hanging from the wound with a good result; and that the pedicle may also he fastened externally by means of a clamp with equal success. But we have also ascertained that good success is gained by dropping the pedicle into the abdomen, after its division by the crushing clamp and cautery, or, after it has been ligatured in two or more portions and the ends of the ligature been cut off. It would appear, as far as present experience goes, that in the case of long pedicles, the best practice is to fix them externally by means of a clamp; with short and broad pedicles in which the vessels are usually small the cautery may be employed ; or, the pedicle ligatured in two or more parts with stout silk, the ends of the ligatures cut off, the stump dropped in, and the wound afterwards closed. If subsequent experience proves that the cautery is to he relied on, whether aided or not by other means, we shall doubtless have dis- covered a plan of treatment which bids fair to do more for ovariotomy than any other improvement of modern times. Hitherto it has been in the treatment of short and broad pedicles, the class of cases for which the actual cautery is now proposed, that ovariotomists have experienced so much difficulty; but at present the practice can hardly be said to have yet arrived at any state of certainty. In this treatment of adhesions, our practice should be governed by like principles. When they are slight, they may be broken down; when strong, they may be divided or ligatured, or perhaps destroyed by the cautery. When large vessels exist, they must he tied until the crushing and cauterising plan of treatment has been perfected. But let no risk be run, let the ligature be applied, and their ends cut off, rather than incur any chance of bleeding. On sponging out the pelvis.—The tumour having been removed Qu sponging and the pedicle secured, it will be well to examine the opposite out the ovary, to be sure of its healthiness, and then to turn attention to Pelvi8- the presence of the fluid or blood that may have escaped into the pelvis during the operation. If the fluid of the ovarian cyst has been of the serous kind, and the evidence of the extravasation of blood into the abdomen is purely negative, there will be little or no need of running the risk of irritating the peritoneum or pelvic organs by the application of a sponge; for the thin serous fluid of ovarian cysts is readily absorbed, and the presence of a little blood of small consequence, since we know from experience that blood may be exten- sively effused into a joint and no evil follow, as it may into the cellular tissue of a part and yet be absorbed. Obstetricians will also readily recall cases in which blood has been effused into the peritoneal cavity without, of necessity, any serious result. A sponge must not, therefore, be applied to the delicate surface of the peritoneum without good reason, and, where the fluid of the ovarian cyst has been simply serous, and no evidence of the effusion of blood in any quantity, there is no need to use a sponge. When required, it should be new, of the softest kind, and well warmed, two or more dips into the pelvis being carefully made, to free the cavity from all foreign matter. The sponge is far preferable to flannel, for, when properly cleansed and soft, it is quite unirritating, and* not so likely as flannel to leave any foreign matter behind. The sponge,