liability to pyaemia. Of uppec extremity. Treatment. Excision of shoulder or elbow. Of the lower extremity. Below knee. Above knee. Upper third of femur. Amputation at hip-joint condemned. 558 ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. tusions of long bones are more fatal from this cause than comminuted gunshot fractures (‘ American Journal,’ vol. xlix). Fractures of the lower extremity are more liable to be followed by such blood poisoning than those of the upper, the susceptibility being much determined by the size of the venous canals ; the larger and more numerous the veins of a part, the greater the danger of septicaemia. In gunshot wounds of the pelvic bones Stromeyer believes the liability to pyaemia to be very great, and that cold and exposure favour its de- velopment. Gunshot fractures of the upper extremity are far less fatal than those of the lower, and “ unless the bone be extensively injured by a massive projectile, or longitudinal comminution exist to a great extent, especially if also involving a joint, or the state of the patient’s health be very unfavorable, attempts should always be made to save the limb.” —Longmore. When the bone is much splintered an examination by the finger for foreign bodies or detached pieces of bone should be made as well as their removal. Sharp points of projecting spiculae should be sawn off, the most dependent wound being extended when necessary, or a fresh incision made for the purpose in a dependent position when only one wound exists, the case being then treated as an ordinary com- pound fracture. If the shoulder and elbow-joint be opened and the condition of the soft parts, vessels, &c., is not such as to necessitate amputation, excision of the joint should be performed, the experience of all recent campaigns indicating this very strongly. Gunshot wounds of the wrist too often demand amputation; excision is not expedient, and (where the major operation is not imperatively demanded, attempts to save the limb should be made. The same remarks apply to injuries to the fingers and hand, and only such portions as are irreparably damaged should be removed; for the value of a piece of thumb and one finger, of whatever kind, is hardly to be over-estimated, and every effort should be made to preserve whatever parts can possibly be saved. Gunshot fractures of the lower extremity are far more grave accidents than those of the upper. Longmore lays it down as a general rule, that ordinary fractures below the knee from rifle balls should never cause primary amputation; while, excepting in certain special cases, in fracture above the knee, amputation is held by most military surgeons to be a necessary measure. The special cases are gunshot fractures of the upper third of the femur, especially if it be doubtful whether the hip-joint is impli- cated or not; as in these, the danger attending amputation is so great that the question is still open whether the safety of the patient is best consulted by excision of tbe injured portion of the lemur, by removal of detached fragments, and trusting to natural effects for union, or, by resorting to amputation. The decision of the surgeon must generally rest upon the extent of injury to the soft parts, the age, condition of the patient, and sur- rounding circumstances. If the femoral artery and vein have been divided, any attempt to preserve the limb will certainly prove fatal. Amputation at the hip-joint for gunshot wound is generally fatal; so fatal, indeed, that it ought only to be undertaken when the lower limb is so mutilated as to render it a necessity, or when the great