SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. q Dislocation of cartilages of nose. Displacement of septum. Adams’s operation. Epistaxis. Treatment. crepitus of the fracture with displacement, &c. Cases of fracture of the frontal sinus require no special treatment, and generally do well. In children, the cartilage of the I'm. 298. nose may be displaced from the nasal bones in consequence of an injury, and, unless replaced, permanent de- formity and obstruction will ensue. The surgeon consequently, when this accident takes place, should do his best to restore the misplaced parts and to keep them in apposition, al- though some difficulty is often expe- rienced in its accomplishment. With the view of preventing or correcting deformity Mr. W. Adams has suggested, that the broken or bent septum should be straightened by strong plate - bladed forceps (Fig. 298a b) and the broken nasal bones raised, these parts subsequently being maintained in position by an ivory clamp, and the side of the nose pressed into place by a nose truss (Fig. 298a a) connected with a fore- head plate (a) and band (b). The plates (e) are shaped according to the outline of the nose, and are made to diverge by rotating a central controlling screw, the pressure of the Fig 298o plates being regulated by two cir- cular springs. The ivory clamp must be worn day and night for three or four days after the defor- mity has been corrected, and the nose truss for some months during the day. Epistaxis. Bleeding from the nose is an occurrence of considerable fre- quency, and when not too free or lasting, rarely requires surgical in- terference. It may be the result of an injury—traumatic; or associated with some cancerous affection or fibrous growth from the base of the skull or other local cause; or, it may be the direct consequence of some fulness of the vessels of the head or heart disease. It is found also as a kind of passive exudatiou Forceps and nose truss for treatment of in anaunic and cachectic subjects; deformed nose. after purpura or from hepatic dis- ease, and also as supplementary to the catamenia. Treatment.—In order to successful treatment its cause must be ascertained. When traumatic, it usually stops without aid. When