CHANCRE. 177 A spreading chancre with a suppurating bubo, is probably a local affection. A small single chancre indurated from the beginning, is the most suspicious of syphilis although even in this, there is no certainty of its being so. In fact, it is not possible to speak with any certainty as to a chancre being syphilitic or otherwise. Syphilis is a constitu- tional disease which can only be recognised by its constitutional symptoms, and not by the point of its inoculation. With respect to the period of incubation of a simple or syphilitic chancre no definite time can be given, since it varies from a few hours to a week; but the multiple suppurating simple chancres, as a rule, appear more rapidly after infection than any other, and the syphilitic chancre often does not appear for a week at least, sometimes two or three, after infection. Dr. Bumstead, of New York, says—“ that an interval of at least ten days will be found to have existed between infection and the appearance of the sore.” (Edition of ‘ Cullerier’s Atlas of Venereal Disease,’ 1868.) A chancre, like any ordinary sore, may present different appear- ances at different times. It may be at its origin vesicular, papular, pustular, or an excoriation, and pass through the ulcerating, granu- lating, and cicatrising stages ; in some cases the ulcerating stage will be a long one, while in another it may be so brief as hardly to be recognised. The action of the sore may vary with the condition of the patient, as well as with the condition of the part upon which it is placed, and it will be influenced probably by the nature or stage of the infecting sore from which the disease has been communicated. A chancre, like an ordinary sore when there is much local action and little constitutional power may become irritable, inflamed, or phage- dionic, more particularly when drink, irregular living, and debauchery have so enervated the system, as to render the patient unable to withstand the effects of any local irritation. These various actions may attack the chancre at any period of its progress. When a chancre is sloughing or phagedaenic from the first, and has originated from an inoculation of syphilitic matter, there is every reason to believe that the sloughing process may have a beneficial tendency, since the very intensity of the local effects of the poison may be the means of preventing its absorption, and thus, the outbreak of syphilis. When, however, the sloughing action appears during the ulcerating or later period of the chancre’s progress, it will have no such useful influence; for when syphilis is inoculated through a chancre, it is during its vesicular, papular, or pustular condition, prior to its ulcerative stage, and no action of the sore that appears after this period can have any effect in checking the diffusion of the poison. “ If the inflammation spreads fast,” writes Hunter, “it shows a constitution more than naturally disposed to inflammation; if the pain is great it shows a great disposition to irritation ; it also sometimes happens that they very early begin to form sloughs. When this is the case they have a strong tendency to mortification.” “ These three conditions of a sore,” adds Aston Key, commenting upon the above, “ distinct in their cause and in their operation from the syphilitic action, are ad- verted to, as pointing out the distinction that is to be drawn between the irritable, inflamed, and the sloughing chancre, and afford a guide VOL. II. 12 Spreading chancre. Period ot incubation. Varieties in aopearance of the chancre. May assume different conditions. When sloughing