601 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. student have them always before him in the treatment of every case of local injury or disease. Indeed, it is upon this principle—viz. To sacrifice “ the least possible sacrifice of parts ”—most of the operations of the as little of foot are undertaken, and it is well to remember, that of the different amputations that have been recommended, each succeeding one is only a degree more severe than the preceding, and that none of them are called for until minor measures have altogether failed, as the surgeon in the present day takes away diseased bone or bones without fear, leaving nature to repair the breach, and in this confidence he is rarely deceived. I have taken away, in one case, the whole second row of tarsal bones, and in another, the three cuneiform, scaphoid and cuboid with excellent results. I have removed the necrosed os calcis with so little deformity that the loss could hardly be detected, and taken away on several occa- sions the upper articulating surface of the astragalus for disease, with a result which has astonished me, no external deformity remaining, and movement of the ankle being almost complete. Mr. Key in 1836 took away the whole of the outer part of the foot for injury, leaving only the os calcis, astragalus, scaphoid, inner cuneiform bone, and great toe (vide Fig. 630; ‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1836), from a boy, set. 17, who subsequently had a use- ful and sound foot. More recently Mr. Birkett has done the same with a like success. Single metatarsal and tarsal bones when irre- parably diseased may be re- moved with some confidence of a good result being ob- tained, and any of the ope- rations I am about to describe should only be undertaken when less severe measures are inapplicable. Upon this principle the amputations of Hey and of Lisfranc were Principle hailed with satisfaction. Key’s consisting of the disarticulation of the of the metatarsal bones from the tarsal, or the section with the saw of the differe.at metatarsal or tarsal hones, Lisfranc suggesting the disarticulation. operatlu"3- Chopart’s amputation, again at the medio-tarsal joints, and Syme’s amputation at the ankle-joint, Pirogoff’s, which is a modification of Syme’s, a part of the os calcis being preserved, have all the same end in view. The subastragaloid amputation, as recorded by Malgaigne, to save the astragalus and ankle-joint, is based upon the same principle,’ and Hancock’s amputation to save the posterior part of the os calcis with the astragalus, goes still further in the way of conservatism. All these operations have their own value, and each is applicable to its own class of cases; where the minor measure will suffice the major is out of all question, the principle of the least possible sacri- hce of parts being the one upon which they, as all other amputations should be based. 1 ’ Fig. 630. Foot alter amputation of the four outer toes with their metatarsal bones, two external cuneiform and cuboid bones. Key’s case. ‘ Guy’s Hosn. Rep ,’1836. F Before considering the different forms of amputation it will be Surreal well to consider briefly the surgical guides to the foot as expressed