HYDROCELE. 184 Diagnosis or mode of examination. Position of testicle. Translu- cencv. Shape, &e Statistics of hydrocele. The Clinical Examination of a Hydrocele of Testicle. On examining a testicle the seat of this disease, the enlargement will be found free and readily moveable, and to occupy the position of that organ which it includes. On inquiring into the history oftbe case, it will he ascertained that the swelling appeared primarily in connec- tion with the testis, and gradually encroached upon the upper portion of the scrotum towards the external ring, while on careful examination, the cord will generally be felt clear and distinct above the tumour. In exceptional cases, however, the fluid xvill be found to pass upwards through the external as far as the internal ring, it being tolerably clear in such examples that the peritoneal testicular process lias closed only at one point, and that is at its internal abdominal opening (Fig. 261). On taking the tumour in the hand it will be found to be light, and on passing the fingers over its surface it will be felt smooth and uniform. Fluctuation will also readily be detected on the slightest and most delicate palpation. The position of the testicle should then be looked for and made out; its natural site being somewhat posterior, and in large tumours, towards the upper part. But it must be borne in mind that in certain examples, that is, in cases in which, the organ is mal- placed, the testicle may be in front of or below the tumour. The best test of its presence is afforded by manipulation; the peculiar testicular pain felt on the application of pressure affording a certain indication. The question of translucency should next demand attention, for when present it is of peculiar importance, and indicative of the vaginal hydrocele. It must be remembered, however, that such a symptom is not constant, since it is neither present in cases of hydrocele in which the fluid is thick, bloody, or opaque, nor when the walls of the vaginal tumour have become thickened by fibrinous deposit. It should be added, that for this translucency to be well observed, the integuments of the scrotum should be firmly stretched over the scrotal enlargement. The tumour is generally described as being of a regular and pyri- form shape, but this condition is very variable, since the shape of the swelling depends upon the openness of the tubular peritoneal membrane of the cord and the connection which exists between the surfaces of the tunica vaginalis testis and tunica vaginalis scroti. When the canal has closed and withered down to the hody of the testis, the swelling will be more or less globular; and the higher the point of closure of the vaginal peritoneal sac towards the internal ring, the more pyra- midal will the watery swelling necessarily become. If adhesions exist between the two layers of serous membrane at the lower portion of the testis, the hydrocele will appear to be at the upper part; and, when the natural contraction between the tunica vaginalis of the cord and of the testicle is not completed (Fig. 263), an irregular or even hour-glass contraction may make its appearance—the outline of a hydrocele depending much upon the anatomical conditions of the part in which it is situated, and the pathological changes which may have resulted from the affection. The true pyriform swelling is best seen in children, when the fluid will be found frequently to pass well up the cord, although in adults it is not uncommon. Hydrocele occurs at all ages, but it is somewhat common at birth and middle age, and in a large proportion of cases appears, as a one- sided affection, and seems to affect the right or left testis indiscrimi-