542 ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. Ball to he extracted if possible. Blow from cannon balls at full speed. Not at full speed. ■When spent. Shell wounds. ricochet shots is the most destructive, and large projectiles “ rolling over” the surface of a part, or moving at low rates of speed, possess a force which will crush all parts with which they happen to come in contact, even extremities, and rupturing internal organs in a way peculiar to themselves. A conical rifle ball, when partially spent, may lodge in a part, either in a bone or some soft tissue. It may take some unusual path and lodge where the surgeon cannot find it, or cannot remove it; and under these circumstances, it may rest, become encysted, and give but little trouble. But, on the other hand, it may set up a chronic inflam- matory action in the part and give rise to local suppuration. Bullets, however, rarely lodge in the soft parts without giving rise to suppura- tion, although in bones they may do so. Such cases should not, however, induce the surgeon to leave them alone when they can be removed; they should always be extracted if possible, unless they have penetrated any of the great cavities of the body. Bill- roth speaks very strongly on this point. In all blind wound tracks of the extremities, the finger should be passed into the wound and the foreign body looked for, the external wound being enlarged when needed for this purpose ; and in non-penetrating wounds of the head, chest, ab- domen, and pelvis, the same practice may be observed. The removal of the ball as the cause of irritation has not only a beneficial influence on the body of the patient, but it has an equally beneficial influence upon the mind; for as long as the ball remains lost in the tissues, tlie soldier naturally regards it as a serious impediment to his re- covery, and there is no effect equal to that caused by its removal. Billroth has found much assistance from Nelaton’s sound in doubtful cases, but, as a rule, he says that projectiles that cannot be reached by the fingers can rarely be extracted, the bullet forceps, even the Ameri- can, being of small value. When a part of the body is carried away by a cannon hall at full speed, the stump will present a level surface of contused and almost pulpified tissues. The muscles and integument will not have re- tracted ; the extremity of the broken bone will probably stand out, small fragments of bone being scattered over the surface of the wound. When the same result follows the contact of a cannon hall, the force of which is partially expended, there will be evidence of more dragging and laceration of the soft parts, more irregularity of the wound, more hanging of the muscles, greater comminution of the bone, and greater injury to the soft parts above the seat of separation, and probably greater splintering of the bone upwards. When the force of the cannon hall is still less or spent, there may be no separation of impaired parts, but a general contusion, crushing, or disorganization. In some cases where the force is oblique, there may be no external evidence of injury, this want of external evidence being too commonly associated with broken bones or severe internal lacera- tion of viscera or soft parts. Such cases were formerly set down as due to “ wind contusions,” or, the “ brush of a shot,” but are now believed to be caused by contusions of nearly spent cannon balls, or glancing blows from some projectile. Shell wounds, as a rule, produce severe laceration of soft parts, and though they may penetrate tissues, yet they very rarely pass through them.