DISEASES OF THE BONES. 504 lated lGSUlt °f aiticular ost!t!s> dy>ng “ore rapidly than the cancel- Affection of ^ ^le cartilages at the same time undergo degenerative changes and cartilages and separate from their bony attachments more or less rapidly, in some extension to cases being cast off as a slough, or shed as a nail or cuticle. Under these circumstances joint disease occurs. (Vide Fig. 574.) Fig. 574. Necrosis of the articular lamella of bone with degeneration of cartilage covering it in. In the shafts of bones, changes similar to these are equally manifest, the bone in the early stage first expanding, and, in subjects of better power subsequently thickening from the organisation of the inflam- matory exudation, the bones thus becoming solid and dense, and the subject of a condition known as sclerosis (Fig. 575). Fig. 575. Sclerosis of hone, the result of inflammation. From Prep. Guy’s Mus. Subperiosteal In cases of inflammation of bone when the periosteum is not mor- depositiou. bidly involved, a layer of new tissue secreted from the periosteum is poured out upon the bone, which at first is soft and fibrinous, and subsequently hard and osseous, this new material being reparative in its nature, and that from which the new bone will be formed. It may be only a few lines in thickness, though at times it is even half an inch (Fig. 577) ; and before it becomes osseous, it can readily be peeled off the bone by means of the handle of a scalpel or a periosteal elevator. It is to this tissue M. Ollier alludes, when he recommends the sub-perios- teal resection of the shaft or articular ends of bone, for it is upon such mainly that the regeneration of a bone or part of a bone depends. Changes analogous to those described as going on in the periosteum, occur in the endosteum or medullary membrane of the bones, although not so well seen. The products, therefore, of a periostitis or endos- titis vary with the character and intensity of the inflammatory process, precisely in the same way and under the same conditions as Acute the products of inflammation vary in the softer tissues. In very iu- necrosis. tense inflammation and subjects of low power, the death of the inflamed parts is the result, of the periosteum with the bone depending upon it for its nourishment, of the endosteum with its bony fabric, or of the