311 DEFORMITIES. tively noted, eigbt were of the thumb, and four of the fingers aloue, three of the toes alone, and five of the fingers and toes together, the deformity being symmetrical in six of the cases. Occasionally super- numerary fingers or toes have perfect metatarsal or metacarpal bones, and more rarely the hand may he double. Jardine Murray, of Brighton, has recorded such a case (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xlvi). Hypertrophy of extremities is met with, either of whole limbs or parts of limbs. In drawing 10, Fig. 419, hypertrophy of one finger is shown, associated with deficiency of others, but the hypertrophy is a type of the affection that is met with in practice, whether of a digit or extremity. Treatment.—Rudimentary fingers and toes may he fearlessly ex- Treatment, cised when they appear as skin appendages, but, when they exist as bifid phalanges, great care is called for in their treatment on account of the frequency of there being a common joint to the two digits. Under these circumstances, the surgeon should carefully consider the question of amputation; and if he decide upon performing it, it will be wise to cut off the supernumerary digit some little distance from the joint, leaving a stump, which, as a rule, subsequently withers. Hypertrophied extremities may be removed when they are sources of great inconvenience, but not otherwise. Webbed fingers and toes are another common deformity. At times Webbed all the digits of one or both hands or feet are webbed, but more com- digits, monly only two are involved. Thus, I have seen the thumb and in- dex-finger webbed in one case (No. 3, Fig. 419); the ring and middle fingers of both hands (No. 4), and in another the second and third toes of both feet. In one instance, the toes of one foot were webbed, and the fingers of the hands more or less truncated. In another, with webbed toes on both feet, there was a supernumerary right thumb. Indeed, where a disposition to deformities shows itself several varieties of deformity may co-exist in the same subject. Treatment.—For the baud, when the fingers are well formed, the Treatment, surgeon, if possible, should divide the weh, but, under other circum- stances, it is more prudent to leave it alone. When the web is very narrow there is nothing left but to divide it, hut before doing so a good opening at the base of the cleft ought to he established to prevent the subsequent closure of the wound. This can be effi- ciently effected by means of the galvanic cautery or otherwise, and the subsequent introduction into the opening of a piece of aluminium wire, the wire being kept in till the wound has cicatrised and become as thoroughly established as an ear-ring hole. When this step of the operation has been effected, the cleft may be fearlessly divided. When the web is broader and more material exists for the surgeon’s manipulation, the best plan to adopt is, to split the weh transversely between the fingers, and to turn one flap of skin round one finger and the other flap round the second, stitching the edges of the flap to the skin of the finger. Webbed toes need no surgical interference. Absence of parts cannot surgically be remedied. In No. 13, Fig. 419, Deficiency or there was an absence of a thumb, but by way of compensation, an extra parts, finger was given. In No. 14, the ring-finger was absent, but the index and middle were hypertrophied. At other times, limbs are truncated as if from intra uterine amputation,