605 syme’s operation. if no such difficulty is experienced, such a measure is unnecessary. In dressing the stump, a good opening for drainage should he left. Fig. 634 illustrates the condition of the stump a year after the opera- tion in which the tendo Achillis was not divided. On one occasion, I performed this medio-tarsal operation for injury, making two lateral flaps from the dorsum and sides of the foot, the in- tegument of the sole having been destroyed. A good stump resulted. Fig. 631. Sulmstraga- loid amputation. Stump after Chopart’s amputation. Subastragaloid amputation follows next in order amongst the amputations of the foot, and is the removal of as much as is taken away in Chopart’s amputation, with the addition of the os calcis. It should be performed when the disease for which an operation is required involves these parts, and yet leaves the astragalus and ankle-joint sound. It seems, according to Velpeau (‘ Operative Surgery,’ 1839), to have been first per- formed by M. de Lignerolles, and subsequently by Textor, although Malgaigne in 1846 described the operation as his own without mentioning these facts. It is made by a heel flap as in Syme’s ampu- tation, and a dorsal flap as in Chopart’s, the foot being removed by opening the joints between the scaphoid and astragalus, and that between this latter bone aud the calcis. “ The stump resulting from the subastragaloid amputation appears to me,” writes Hancock, “ to be perfect; it is round, and of good form ; the cicatrix is firm, and well up in front, and the bottom of the stump is perfectly covered by the natural heel tissue.” NMaton says this form of amputation “has been found to surpass all amputations” (‘ Clin. Surg.’). Hancock’s operation must be looked upon as a modification of the Hancock’s subastragaloid, in the same way as Pirogoff’s is a modification of operation. Syme’s, for Hancock saves the tuberosity of the os calcis and turns it up to be united to the lower surface of the astragalus, from which he takes a slice of bone. It maybe adopted, when in his attempt to perform the subastragaloid operation, the surgeon finds the lower surface of the astragalus diseased and the os calcis sound. Mr. Hancock performed it in 1864, with an excellent result. The incisions are very similar to those required in the subastragaloid, the end of the os calcis being divided in a line corresponding to the heel flap, instead of the flap being reflected. In the * Lancet ’ for 1866, full particulars of Hancock’s operation may be read, as described by him in a lecture at the College of Surgeons. Syme’s Operation. This consists in the removal of the whole foot with the articular 8yme’s surfaces of the bones of the leg just above the malleoli; a covering operation, for the osseous surfaces being provided from the integument of the heel, the result being, adds Lister, “ a stump admirably fitted for beariug the weight of the body. At the same time, the parts likely to