ON THE TREATMENT OF HIP-JOINT DISEASE. 467 splint (Fig. 515) is also good, applied to the side of the sound limb, through which he likewise applied all counter-extension. When mal-position such as arises from flexion, abduction, or adduction of the thigh exists, a position which would be detrimental to the patient’s welfare, it is essential that it should be remedied before the plan of treatment already laid down is carried out, and so long as no anchylosis has taken place, or the union is soft, there is a good pro- spect of this being effected. For this purpose, chloroform should be given, and the thigh slowly hut surely brought to a straight line with the body, and there fixed; any inflammation caused thereby being checked by the local application of ice or hot fomentations, according to the comfort one or other gives the patient. At times, however, active disorganizing changes and bad results follow. When dis- placement or dislocation of the joint exists, it is often in the surgeon’s power to reduce the dislocation, and then to treat the case as one of the ordinary kind. In the case from which Fig. 553 was taken, the hoy was eleven years old; the disease had been acute, and the dislo- cation was on the ilium. Its reduction was readily effected under chlo- roform, and a good result followed. A weight of six or seven pounds was enough to keep the limb in position, and the counter- extension was well applied on the opposite side of the pelvis. If, how- ever, I had now the treatment of this case, I should have employed the double splint with elastic extension. When the displacement is of long standing and the natural cure of the disease has gone on to its end, it is not wise to interfere and thus run the risk of undoing what nature has well done; as many of these cases of supposed dislocations are not of this kind; but simply a shortening of the neck of the bone from the absorption or destruction of the head or epiphysis of the femur, or, at times, of the acetabulum. Drs. March and Sayre, of New York, deny the existence of a dislocation, but in this they are wrong. It does occur, although rarely. In the case from which Fig. 553 was taken, it was very clear. In exceptional instances the displacement of the iimb is due to a separation of the neck of the bone from the epiphysis, which is left fixed in the aceta- bulum, or is cast off. This condition is illustrated in Figs. 537-8. When anchylosis has taken place at a bad angle, at such an angle as seen in Fig. 554, any attempt at forcible flexion with the view of breaking down the ad- hesions, must he looked upon as futile and unjustifiable, although it may be right to consider the propriety of improving the position of the limb by some surgical procedure; and/or this object, several surgical opera- tions have been devised. Thus, in 1875, M. Tillaux presented before the Surgical Society of Paris a woman, set. 32, the subject of bony anchylosis of the hip-joint of a year’s standing, the limb having been flexed and rotated inwards, for whom he had with success, forcibly fractured the neck of the Fig. 558. In cases of malposition of the thigh. Forcible extension. In.case of displacement or dislocation of joint. Anchylosis at « bad angle.