STONE IN THE BLADDER. 92 Subjective symptoms. Condition of ! urine. On sounding. Position of j patient. j Instrument | selected. Catheters, best. Mode of sounding. of different degrees of intensity referred to the bladder and aggravated on any sudden movement, such as by riding, jumping, or jolting of the body. Pain during and particularly after the act of micturition, extending along the urethra to the penis; exhausting straining, and the passage of blood. During the flow of urine, a sudden arrest of the stream will often be observed, this arrest being followed after the lapse of a moment of time by the return of the flow, and this inter- ruption may he repeated more than once in each act of micturition. Retention or incontinence of urine may complicate the case. Rectal irritation and tenesmus with or without prolapse are also frequent symptoms; and reflected pains along certain nerves are very constant. Thus, pain in the glans penis is most common, and pain in the scrotum, perinseum, and down the thighs. John Hunter relates a case of stone in which pain in the left forearm was the only indication of a want to make water. Sometimes the bladder symptoms may be severe for a time and then cease, or suddenly appear after any extra exertion. In the former case, the stone probably becomes fixed in a sacculus and ceases to irritate; in the latter, it escapes from a sacculus and makes its presence known. As long as the bladder remains healthy the changes in the urine will be but slight, but when the stone acting as a foreign body, sets up cystitis, all the symptoms of that affection will appear, with the muco-purulent discharge and ammoniacal urine. When the symptoms have existed for any lengthened period, the probabilities of renal complications are great, as indicated by albuminous urine with lumbar pain and anasarca. In rare cases, a persistent erection of the penis is present. But these symptoms of stone are merely subjective; they are those given by the patient; and, however suggestive of the affection they may be, are not conclusive, since all may be produced by other bladder affections. The only conclusive evidence to be obtained is by the physical examination of the bladder, by the “sounding” of the patient with a metallic sound or catheter, by the “ ringing ” of the stone against its end. To sound a patient suspected of stone, the horizontal position should be selected, and the pelvis raised on a pillow. The bladder should contain a few ounces of urine if possible, three or four being enough and eight being ample, and the rectum should be empty. When the bladder is empty, some few ounces of water should be injected. For a child, a small metallic bulbous catheter or sound with a short sharp curve should be used (Fig. 343), the bulbous end being one size larger than the stem, and for the adult, a similar instrument suffices (Fig. 342). An instrument with a long curve may glide over the. stone, and will certainly fail to find one lodged behind the prostate; it is, also, less movable. The short curved catheter can be made to turn downwards to explore the base of the bladder with the same facility as it can the sides. A hollow sound or catheter is better than a solid, as a stoue will often be detected on drawing off the urine, as the bladder in the act of contracting may throw the stone upon the end of the instrument, and thus make its presence known. The catheter should not have a \'he instrument should be warmed, freely oiled, and passed carefully and slowly into the bladder, nor ought its introduction to give