DISEASE OF THE TESTICLES. Syphilitic orchitis Very solid, hut not elastic or transpa- rent unless compli- cated with hydro- cele, which is very general Irregularly nodular and very hard In tumour Absent altogether, ex- cept in very early stage; returns also towards convales cence Slow in the extreme, often hardly noticed Moderate Irregularly oval and lumpy Very slight, allows rough handling. To- wards end of disease, on recovery, pain on pressure returns Very hard and irre- gular outline. Of. ten hydrocele, with small fibrous bodies in tunica albuginea Always in body of gland Constitutional syphi- lis, hereditary or ac- quired Essentially chronic; rarely terminates by suppuration foreign bodies. To wards the end tliesi bodies soften ant excite suppuration volved a half crescent Present Slow at first; flamed Moderate Free Generally indurated ways. Other syphi- litic affections Often both organs Tubercular disease. its stages or inflamed parts, lumpy. last soft before puration body of gland Tuberculosis Very indolent and iu- after tin period Healthy Generally indurated Hydrocele, almost al- Rarely with hydrocele. Disease in other parts of body Both organs, as a rule involved Cystic, or adenoid disease. Carcinomatous disease. Firm and elastic; insidious enlarge- ment of gland; not translucent; indistinct fluctua- tion Generally regular, smooth, and elas- tic ; rarely bossy In tumour A tense and firm en- largement of body of testis; not trans- lucent. Indistinct fluctuation towards later stage ; bossy outline; parts softer than others. In tumour. Present at first, but soon lost Soon disappears. Unequal; slow at first, more rapid afterwards Rarely, but some- times very large Oval with flattened sides. Smooth at first, subsequently bossy Slight when present; generally painless even on manipu- lation Rapid, as a rule; slow only in the carci- noma fibrosum, which is very rare. Sometimes very large. Globular or pyriform. Smooth at first,subse- quently lumpy, soft- est at these points. Very slight, even on free manipulation. Firm and elastic, more so in one spot than another Firm, but elastic; softer on the bosses, when present. In body of gland Body of gland. Unknown Unknown ; occasion- ally from injury. Unequal; never in- flamed Rapid as anile; rarely slonr. Healthy Full; veins enlarged. Mucoid fluid, more or less blood- stained Rarely involved Blood or creamy fluid, with characteristic cell-grou'th on micro- scopical examination Generally involved. Rarely with hydro- cele Cancer in other parts; rarely with hydrocele. Always single Single as a rule.