99 LITHOTRITY. Hodgson, Fergusson, and others, subsequently practised the opera- tion, and, upon the result of their experience with that of Civiale, the operation has become a recognised one, the instru- ments employed having been vastly improved and their use better understood. In 1829 Aston Key read a paper on lithotrity at the Hunterian Society, and the report of a successful case, and in ‘ Guy’s Reports ’ for 1837 will he found a masterly paper upon the subject by the same surgeon. In 1834, Fergusson also wrote on lithotrity in the ‘ Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal,’ in which he introduced his rack lithotrite, and to him as well as to Sir B. Brodie, Sir H. Thompson, and Charles Hawkins, most of our modern improvements are due. In a former page, the difficult question was briefly discussed as to the class of cases in which lithrotrity should be selected, and in this the mode of operation, the preliminary and after-treatment, remain to be explained. For it may safely be stated, that no cases require more care- ful preparatory treatment and more cautious after-treatment than those now under consideration. Starting, therefore, with the assumption that our patient is middle- aged and healthy; the stone of moderate dimensions and not too hard ; the urethra of normal size; bladder healthy and capable of retaining easily about four or six ounces of urine—conditions under which operative interference ought to be most favourable—it is always well to keep the Cases patient quiet for a few days, and to test the urethra and bladder as favourable to their capabilities of bearing the mechanical irritation of the instru- lor lilllotri,.v ment by the introduction of a sound; attention should be paid at the same time to the condition of the secretions, &c. With every atten- tion, however, it is not uncommon to meet with cases in which the mere passage of a sound is followed by severe local and constitutional disturbance, and in lithotrity, such a complication is most detrimental. On the other hand, where irritability exists, the occasional introduction of an instrument is often followed by relief. When the bladder is inflamed and irritated by the presence of a Preliminary stone, rest is most essential, with the use of alkalies and the decoc- treatment, tion of the Triticum repens, or other drugs suitable for cystitis. When the urine is ammoniacal, the bladder should be emptied and washed out. By these means the symptoms may subside and the bladder become capable of retaining sufficient urine—four to six ounces—to allow of the operation being performed, where previously it would have been impossible. “If a stone be small, and it be possible to make away with it at a single operation, I should not mind advising lithotrity on a very brief acquaintance; but if the operation is likely to require two or more sittings, then I should think it wise of the surgeon to test, as it were, his patient’s constitution by a repeated preliminary use' of a bougie or sound.”—Fergusson. The patient having been prepared for operation by the treatment Preparation just laid down, the bowels cleared by a mild aperient or an enema the f°r operation, day. before, and the bladder sufficiently distended by the patient re- taining his urine as loug as he conveniently can before the surgeon’s visit, the operation may then be proceeded with. Operation.—The patient should be placed upon a firm horse-hair Position of patient.