141 cock’s operation. large silver'probe-pointed director with a handle, and a canula or female catheter, modified so that it can be retained in the bladder (Syme’s perineal catheter is the best). “ The patient is to be placed in the usual position for lithotomy; and it is of the utmost importance that the body and pelvis should be straight, so that the median line may be accurately preserved. The left forefinger of the operator is then introduced into the rectum, the bearings of the prostate are carefully examined and ascertained, and the tip of the finger is lodged on the apex of the gland; the knife is then plunged steadily but boldly into the median line of the perinseum, and carried on in a direction towards the tip of the left forefinger, which lies in the rectum. (Fig. 366.) At the same time, by an up- ward and downward movement, the vertical incision may be carried in the median line to any extent that is considered desirable. The lower extremity of the wound should come to within half an inch of the anus. “ The knife should never be withdrawn in its progress towards the apex of the prostate; but its onward course must be steadily maintained until its point can be felt in close proximity to the tip of the left forefinger. When the operator has fully assured himself as to the relative position of his finger, the apex of the prostate and the point of his knife, the latter is to be advanced with a motion somewhat obliquely either to the right or the left, and it can hardly fail to pierce the urethra. If, in this step of the operation, the anterior extremity of the prostate should be somewhat incised, it is a matter of no consequence. “ In this operation it is of the utmost importance that the knife be Description not removed from the wound, and that no deviation be made from its of Cock’s original direction until the object is accomplished. If the knife be cJ^miuuil prematurely removed, it will probably, when reinserted, make a fresh incision and complicate the desired result. It will be seen that the wound, when complicated, represents a triangle; the base being the external vertical incision through the perinmum, while the apex, and consequently the point of the knife, impinges on the apex of the prostate. This shape of the wound facilitates the next step of the operation. “The knife is now withdrawn,but the left forefinger is still retained in the rectum. The probe-pointed director is carried through the wound, and guided by the left forefinger, enters the urethra, and is passed into the bladder. The finger is now withdrawn from the rec- tum, the left hand grasps the director, and along the groove of this instrument the canula is slid until it enters the bladder. “ The operation is now complete, and it only remains to secure the canula in its place with four pieces of tape, which are fastened to a girth round-the loins. “ A direct communication with the bladder has now been obtained and the relief to the patient will be immediate; unless the kidneys have become irremediably disorganized, we may confidently anticipate a favourable result; and the restoration of the urinary organs will be more or less complete, in proportion as the obstructed portion of the urethra is more or less amenable to the ordinary judicious treatment of stricture. “ The canula may generally be retained in the bladder for a few days,