VAGINAL FISTULA. 238 When neck of uterus involved in fistula. When fistula make a U-sliapcd cut round the fistula through the mucous membrane of the vagina, raise the flap thus formed and cut off its lower half, including the opening of the fistula in the vaginal mucous membrane. They then draw down the shortened flap over the fistulous opening into the bladder, and unite it by sutures to the cres- centic border of the mucous membrane forming the bed from which the flap had been raised. The fistulous opening into the bladder is thus covered over with a flap of sound mucous membrane. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1872.) When the neck of the uterus is involved in the fistula, it may be necessary to lay it open; but when the uterus is involved, it is more frequently necessary to turn the neck of the uterus into the bladder and close the vagina high up. In very extensive lacerations of the vesico-vaginal septum, the surgeon may be called upon to close the vagina nearer its orifice. I have done so on several occasions with good success, two or more operations being required. When the fistula is surrounded by cicatricial tissue, and when after b Scic™tndaf ^'e adaptation of its edges there is much tension, lateral incisions through the parts are of great use; as they allow the edges to come together more readily, and thus facilitate repair. In recto-vaginal fistula unconnected with parturition, before an of the disease operation is attempted, the surgeon should satisfy himself by a digital rectum. examination of the rectum that no stricture or disease of the rectum co-exists to which the fistula is secondary. Vascular excrescences are very common in the female urethra, and from their great sensibility cause severe pain. They at times pro- ject from the meatus as a florid outgrowth, are often attended with a discharge of mucus, and at times of blood, also with irritability of the bladder. Their removal is the only sound treatment, which can be effected by forceps and scissors, or by means of the galvanic cautery. When the former practice is followed, the growth should be well drawn downwards and excised, a stick of nitrate of silver being applied to the base of the tumour to prevent bleeding. When any doubt exists as to its complete removal, chloride of zinc may be used. When the urethra is the seat of more than one such growth, the introduction of a stick of sulphate of zinc at intervals of two or three days,may be followed by the withering of the growths; but when this result does not ensue, the passage must be dilated and the growths re- moved. Nitric acid in some cases is a good caustic to ensure their destruction when excision or the galvanic cautery cannot be employed, and Dr. A. Edis has recently (‘ Brit. Med. Journ./ April 4th, 1874), used with advantage the saturated solution of chromic acid, applied by means of cotton wool rolled round a stick to the growth until the sur- face became shrivelled. To facilitate the use of any of these means, but more particularly the destruction of the growth with the galvanic cautery, I have found the use of the boxwood or ivory speculum and dilator depicted in Fig. 394 Fig. 394. tissue. There must Vascular excrescences in urethra. Treatment. Speculum dilator for female urethra.