FOREIGN BODIES IN THE WINDPIPE. 21 Foreign Bodies in the Windpipe. There are few accidents which excite more anxiety and alarm to a ^ei"n looker-on than the passage of a foreign body into the larynx or trachea, ^u'apipe. C The unfortunate subject, in the midst of apparent health or happiness, is suddenly forced to make violent struggles for life, and to the spec- tator death seems imminent. In the surgeon’s mind no less painful feelings are excited, for unless by bis art timely relief can be afforded, the danger which is apparent becomes real, and death becomes almost a certainty. The majority of the victims of such an accident are children, although adults are not exempt from such a contingency. A foreign body may be inhaled at any moment, sudden inspiration Mode of being sufficient when the mouth is full, and especially when that ^0(jy foreign body is smooth, light, or small, such as a fruit stone, bead, bean, nut, or coin. Vomited matter may likewise be drawn by inspira- tion into the air-tubes by patients in a state of unconsciousness, as when under chloroform, or in an epileptic fit, and so produce death, or through fistulous openings between the oesophagus and trachea, the result of simple or cancerous ulceration. The body may be lodged at the orifice of the larynx (Fig. 310), and thus cause sudden asphyxia; situation of or pass into the rirna, where it may be arrested, or into the trachea or the foreign bronchi, the right bronchus being its most common seat. The size and shape of the foreign body determines many of these points; for whilst a large one will naturally be arrested at the orifice of the larynx, a small will probably pass through ; and a jogged and light body, such as a piece of nut-shell, would be more likely to be caught in the rirna than a small round body, as a bean. Fig. 810. Bone in larynx causing death, taken from a child 11 months old. Prep. 17105. Fig. 311. Date stone impacted in right bronchus. Prep. 1717'*. . ^ Piece of “eat may become impacted in the rirna glottidis and cause instantaneous death (Prep. Guy’s Hosp. Mus. 1710).