ON OVARIOTOMY. 2S3 alluded, it will be seen that good success has attended each. Upon the whole, the best results possibly have attended the practice of fixing the pedicle externally. The first object which the surgeon has in view in the treatment of the Objects in pedicle is, to prevent haemorrhage, and, in the attainment of this end tiie he should employ such means as are the least liable to excite or be pedicle, followed by, peritoneal inflammation. When experience lias decided upon a plan which will with certainty secure these two objects, the one great difficulty which attends the practice of ovariotomy will have been overcome, and the mortality of the operation, doubtless, be much diminished. In the infancy of ovariotomy the early operators treated the pedicle upon the simplest principles. They secured it by one or two ligatures and brought the ends of the ligatures out of the wound; but subsequent experience has taught us, that the fastening of the pedicle by one ligature is dangerous, and cannot be adopted with safety. It does not attain even the first object the surgeon ought to have in Use of the view, namely, security from haemorrhage; while the mortality of the single cases in which it has been employed has been very great. The practice lisature- of fastening the pedicle by a double ligature, and of bringing the ends xjse of the out of the wound, still exists, and in Dr. Clay’s hands has proved double successful. ligature. The fear of exciting peritonitis by the presence of such a foreign body as a double ligature hanging from the wound, and the natural dread that surgeons entertained of evil consequences from the decom- position of the extremity of the ligatured pedicle within the pelvis, rendered the minds of surgeons dissatisfied with the practice just described, and induced Mr. Duffin to urge the expediency of keeping the strangulated stump of the pedicle outside the wound. Mr. Keeping Hutchinson perfected the practice by the introduction of the clamp. 8^j"?P Up to a recent date, this practice was generally approved, and, as wound0 ° can be seen by the statistics of the different operators, it has hitherto borne good fruits; still, to the minds of reflective men, it was not so satisfactory as could be wished; the good which was evi- dently acquired by maintaining the secured pedicle external to the wound was neutralised in certain cases by an undoubted evil. When the pedicle was long and narrow, the method appeared to be Evil of good and successful; but when the pedicle was short or broad, many traction on bad effects became perceptible—evils which could only be attributed to Pecticle- the traction upon the uterus and its appendages from their pelvic posi- tion. It was thus, therefore, that other plans of treatment were looked for, by which this traction on the pedicle could be obviated, and yet security from hemorrhage guaranteed. The plan of treatment which naturally suggested itself was the drop- Dropping in ping in of the pedicle with the divided ligature, and this was first done of the pedicle, j in 1829 by David Rodgers of New York, who, in removing an ovarian tumour, applied a ligature to the pedicle, cut short both extremities of the ligatures, returned the pedicle into the abdomen, and closed the external wound. His patient made a good recovery. This plan of treatment did not meet with general approval. It was too bold and inconsistent with all past experience and professional prejudices, and fell to the ground. It was repeated at intervals by other surgeons with tolerable success, and has now gained a strong hold on the professional mind, and bids fair to become, in certain cases a