100 IITHOTRITY. mattress or sofa, the pelvis raised by means of a pillow, and the knees slightly raised and separated, care being taken that only such portions of the pelvis are exposed as are necessary to allow of the surgeon’s manipulation, for a sudden chill often acts upon the bladder and induces it to contract and expel its contents. Introduction The instrument, selected by the surgeon, having been previously well instrument warmed and oiled, is then to he carefully introduced, no force being employed, indeed, it may almost be allowed to fall into the bladder by its own weight, the surgeon simply guiding it. Mode of The bladder thus reached and the instrument pressed well into the seizing stone, organ, the object is to seize the stone, which can either be done by so depressing the lithotrite with its open blades as to allow of the stone falling between them, or by turning the open instrument to the stone and picking it up. The first is the older and the more usual method and the one 1 have commonly adopted, the second being useful where the first is inapplicable, where the prostate is enlarged, and the stone rests in a hollow behind it. It grows in favour with experience. Fig. 314. Operation of lithotrity. I give the first, or English method (Fig. 344), in Brodie’s words « the rule for seizing the calculus (which I must acknowledge to have first learned from witnessing the very dexterous operations, of Heurte- Tlie English loup) is as simple as possible. The patient lying on his back, the method, as handle of the forceps (lithotrite) is elevated, which, of course, brings, described by j]ie convex part of the curved extremity of it in contact with the Brodie. posterior surface of the bladder, where it is contiguous to the rectum. The forceps is then to be opened by withdrawing the sliding blade to a tereater or less extent, according to the probable size of the calculus, the fixed blade being at the same time pressed gently downwards in the direction of the rectum. The object of this manipulation is,