98 LITHOTRITY. and the conditions of the viscus render lithotrity an easy and a safe operation.” These extracts which I have given from Aston Key’s paper written forty years ago, might have been from the pen of a more recent writer, as they most accurately represent the advantages of what was then called the new operation, and prove how the great surgeon who wrote them recognised its value. Summary. It would thus appear that in children, lithotomy ought to be the rule, aud lithotrity the exception. In adults, lithotrity ought to be the rule and lithotomy the exception—the latter operation being selected only when the former is impossible from some urethral or prostatic irrita- bility or mechanical obstruction, severe bladder disease, or a large stone. Renal disease in all cases renders doubtful the prognosis of any operative procedure, the weight of evidence tending in favour of a cutting rather than a crushing operation under such circumstances, though when the stone is small, lithotrity is not precluded. When In cases in which neither operation can be recommended, or when palliative both are rejected, it is wonderful how long patients, the subjects of be adopted*0 stone aU(l organic disease, by care and good advice will live, and how little irritation a calculus sometimes causes; and though the knowledge of this fact should not induce a surgeon to leave alone a patient who has a stone, it is enough to enable him to give hope and encourage- ment to one whose life would be endangered by any surgical attempt at its removal, for palliative treatment is, doubtless, a source of great comfort and a valuable means of prolonging life. LITHOTRITY. On lithotrity. “ In the whole of my professional experience,” says Fergusson in his rcs'ectim' it College Lectures, 1867, “ I know not of a useful operation which has irsprc mg . |)euu gQ shamefully overpraised, and thereby damaged in character as lithotrity. I know not any process in surgery requiring more fore- thought, knowledge, manipulative skill, and after-judgment.” “Nor is it possible,” writes Thompson, “to conduct all the manipulations with too much care and gentleness.” These opinions, emanating as they do from two of the most experienced lithotritists of the present day, ought always to be remembered, since they are true to a degree that surgeons only who have had some experience in the operation cau appreciate. To Mr. Elderton, a Northampton surgeon, is due the merit of being the first to construct an instrument for the purpose of crushing a calculus, and enabling the patient to pass it by the urethra When nrst (‘ Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal/ April, 1819); but lithotrity was first peiforme realised as an operation and successfully practised by Civiale in 1824, and to him the profession is chiefly indebted for the operation, though Leroy d’Etiolles, Heurteloup, Amussat, and others did much towards favouring the practice. It is probably, however, to Heurteloup Literature of that British surgeons are mostly indebted, as he came over to Eng- the subject. land about 1829'and explained fully to the profession the mechanism of his improved instruments and the steps of the operation, aud, on the invitation of Mr. Aston Ivey, this instruction was given in the theatre of Guy’s Hospital. Weiss, in 1823, had previously devised a screw lithotrite, and, after Heurteloup’s visit, and probably from information acquired through him, so improved it, that all modern instruments are based upon that which he thcu introduced. Aston Key, Brodie, Costello,