Use of forceps. Use of can ula. Valvular opening in trachea. 24 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Some surgeons advise the introduction of forceps or other instru- ment through the wound into the trachea for the removal of the foreign body, and in recent times success has followed the practice. Thus in May, 1876, Mr. Maunder extracted, by means of a loop of silver wire through an opening made in the trachea, a glass sleeve link from the left bronchus of a boy set. 13. Mr. Hulke, in August, 1876, hooked out of the right bronchus of a woman, set. 37, the outer tube of a tracheotomy canula by means of a piece of German silver wire bent into a hook; and Mr. Lucas, on November 16,1877, removed by means of forceps the same kind of thing from the left bronchus of a man set. 57, the tube having been in the bronchus for seven weeks. Pig. 312 represents an excellent pair of forceps for this purpose. It was made for Dr. S. D. Gross, of Louisville, before 1854, and is taken from his book on ‘Foreign Bodies in the Air-passages.’ “They,” as described by him, “are composed of silver, and are a little upwards Fig. 312. of eight inches in length. The handle is considerably curved on the flat, and has two large rings for the thumb and finger. The blades, which are rounded and very slender, are five inches long and terminate each in a fenestrated extremity, nine lines in length by three lines in width, the outer surface being smooth and convex, the inner flat and slightly serrated. The blades when shut slightly overlap each other. The weight of the instrument is a little over five drachms. The in- strument, being long and slender, may be used as a probe; being com- posed of silver may be bent at any point and in any direction; and being delicate cannot impede the passage of air during its use.” When these means fail to remove the foreign body, the patient must be left; but the wound in the air-tube should be kept open. If the foreign body be in the larynx, the canula may be intro- duced, but when in the trachea or bronchus, such a practice is injurious, as preventing the escape of the substance. Under these circumstances Hilton’s suggestion is undoubtedly the best—the forma- tion of a transverse valvular opening in the trachea, which readily allows of the escape of the foreign body when impelled against its surface. The cutting out of a portion of the trachea is quite un- necessary. The tracheal wound can also be held open by hooks, or fastened by ligatures. In one case in which the trachea was deep I managed to keep the tracheal wound open by means of a divided ring of strong wire embracing the neck, its two ends being made to hook into the opening into the air-passage, and acting as retractors. In another I held the wound apart by means of a wire instrument made on the principle of the eye speculum. When efforts fail at one time for the removal of the body, they may be successful at another. Mr. Brunei’s well-known case is one in point. Mr. Durham informs us from an analysis of 554 cases of foreign bodies in the air-passages, that