362 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. Results. Dislocation of the ankle. Varieties. Dislocation of foot outwards —Pott’s fracture. Causes. Character. Dislocation of foot inwards. Character. recurrence of the accident is liable to follow upon the least occasion. I have on several occasions thought, that disease has been excited when this measure has been omitted, and I once saw anchylosis follow. Per- manent lameness is by no means uncommon. When the surgeon fails to reduce the displaced cartilage, the patient at times suddenly gains relief by its self-production during some accidental movement. In other cases the cartilage reassumes its normal position more slowly. In 1873, I saw a case of this kind where this always occurred after its displacement. It was in a gentleman, aet. 30, and the inner cartilage projected beyond the head of the tibia in a most marked manner. The patient, therefore, should be kept in bed, and only allowed to move the limb, but not to stand upon it. When this result is not secured, the joint should be strapped up to restrain movement. Dislocations of the Ankle-joint. Such an accident uncomplicated with fracture is rare—that is, dislocation of the foot outwards is generally associated with frac- ture of the fibula; and dislocation inwards, with fracture of the tibia; or both malleoli may be broken. Pure dislocations of the foot forwards or baclcioards, however, may occur. These dislocations are given in the order of their frequency, and are usually produced by some violent twist or bending of the foot when the patient is jumping, or by some violent impulse of the body, with the foot fixed. Dislocation of the foot outwards is better known as Pott’s fracture (Pig. 465), the fibula being usually broken two or three inches above the external malleolus. It is caused by a violent bending of the foot outwards with the foot everted, its outer edge being raised and the inner turned downwards on the ground. At times, the extremity of the inner malleolus is broken off and displaced outwards, with the foot and astragalus. Under all circumstances, the lower end of the tibia or inner malleolus forms a prominent projection inwards, leading or misleading Sir A. Cooper and his copyists to describe this accident as dislocation of the tibia inwards. At the seat of fracture of the fibula, a depression exists. When the force is continued beyond the point necessary to cause the displacement mentioned, the lower end of the tibia may be made to project through the soft parts, and thus give rise to a compound dislocation. Iu still more severe cases, the extre- mities of both tibia and fibula may be made to project, the foot being completely turned outwards. Exceptional cases occur in which the foot is turned out of its socket between the malleoli, without any accom- panying fracture. Dislocation of the foot inwards (Fig. 466) is the counterpart of the last-described accident, and is caused by violence that turns the foot in- wards, with its outer edge to the ground. It is usually associated with an oblique fracture of the inner malleolus and displacement. The force required to produce this dislocation is very great, the tibia being a far stronger bone than the fibula, and consequently is less common. The end of the fibula is often fractured and drawn outwards with the astragalus. At times the astragalus is also fractured. The accident is known by the inversion of the foot, the sole looking inwards, and by the projection of the external malleolus, this prominent symptom having led Sir A. Cooper to describe it as dislocation of the tibia out- wards.