DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. 339 ture in the case (Fig. 438). I had a patient under observation about thirty years of age, who could at will dislocate her shoulder in t ns direction by muscular action. In this dislocation the limb is said to be slightly longer than normal, but I have not found it so. Fia. 437. /Sui-spinous jSu7>- clavicular From Flower’s models, Middlesex Hospital. Subspinous dislocation of head of humerus. Subclavicular dislocations, in which the head of the humerus rests 0,1 below the clavicle ou the sternal side of the coracoid process are exceed- IocutiaF ingly rare (Fig. 437). I have never seen a complete example. Mal- gaigne informs us that in it the arm is pressed against the chest with the elbow slightly removed from the side, the head of the bone being felt and seen in its abnormal position, and the shaft instead of the head of the humerus felt in the axilla. The bulk of cases recorded as of the subclavicular kind are probably subcoracoid. The supracoracoid dislocation is a mixed form of accident, as it is The secondary to a fracture of the coracoid process. Malgaigne has re- supra- corded an example, and Holmes, in the * Med.-Chir. Trans./ vol. xli, a second, with an account of the dissection of the case, the preparation being in St. George’s Museum. He also describes a third which occurred in the practice of Mr. P. Hewett. Some points in diagnosis remain to be told, and the most important Important was pointed out by the late Mr. T. Callaway in his excellent Jacksonian P?int thc Prize Essay for 1849, which is: “ That in taking the vertical cir~ these'08'3 °f cumference of any shoulder in which dislocation exists by means of a dislocations. tape carried over the acromion and under the axilla, an increase of about two inches over the sound side is an invariable concomitant.” The same author also shows, how elongation of the limb does not take place, at any rate, to any extent; the different accounts given by authors on this point depending upon the fact, that they are content with optical rather than actual measurement. Professor Dugas, of Georgia, Dugas’s guide has also pointed out (‘Southern Med. and Surg. Journal,’ 1856) at0®aon081s- sign of dislocation of the shoulder-joint that merits more notice than