ON OVARIAN DISEASE AND OVARIOTOMY. 270 Fibrous or solid ovarian tumours. Multilocular disease varied conditions. Injections inapplicable. Tapping only a temporary measure. May prove fatal. May cause after- adhesions. May be employed for diagnostic purposes. Among the cases which have been tabulated as monocystic tumours —only nine per cent, of the whole number—many doubtless were of the proliferous kind, and in these, the treatment by injection is not to be advised. The treatment by iodine injection should, however, always be enter- tained by the surgeon in every case of apparent monocystic ovarian disease, while the circumstances of each individual case can alone determine what course ought to be taken. Of the fibrous or solid tumours of the ovary, little need be said, as they seldom develope to any size or interfere to any great extent with the patient’s comfort, while the expediency of their removal has rarely to be entertained by the surgeon. Should they, however, become cum- bersome by their size, the expediency of their removal must be enter- tained, and decided upon as in other cases. In all other forms of ovarian disease, in the multilocular or poly- cystic, composite, adenoid, or cysto-sarcomatous, as they have been variously called; in all which are made up of many cysts and of a variable quantity of solid material, such cases forming, indeed, the bulk of those coming under observation; there is no treatment which appears to be of any material benefit, none which seems to have any influence in retarding the growth of the disease, in palliating its inconveniences, or averting its end. The treatment by iodine injection is obviously inapplicable to them, and there is nothing else which offers any prospect of doing permanent good. The patient must quietly sub- mit to her fate or to the alternative of an operation; and in these bearing ‘‘ the stamp of incurability upon them,” the question becomes necessarily narrowed. By means of the operation of tapping, a patient may obtain relief, which is only temporary. Within a brief period, and at uncertain inter- vals the operation will have to be repeated, and, by repetition of such means, existence may be prolonged, but in the majority of cases, this prolonged existence is miserable, and the intervals of so-called ease are, at the best, uncertain. Tapping is also at times a fatal opera- tion, in rare instances from hemorrhage into the abdomen, but more frequently from acute peritonitis and suppuration of the cyst. My own statistics prove, that these causes of death are 35’5 per cent, more frequent when tapping has been employed than when the disease has been allowed to run its course. It should be observed, also, that in all cases of tapping, parietal if not visceral adhesions are prone to take place, and, in the analysis of fatal cases, this fact is well demonstrated. Under these circumstances, is tapping to be recommended in such cases of ovarian disease as appear to be favourable examples for the operation of ovariotomy ? W ithout doubt, in the majority of cases, tapping had better not be performed. For diagnostic purposes, as already shown, it may be employed with confidence and with good effect, for it is better to run the risk, of causing the formation of adhesions and even of death by the operation of tapping, than to submit a patient to the dangers of ovariotomy when the nature of the case is not clearly understood, and the pro- priety of the removal of the growth is surrounded with doubt. In very chronic cases, it may also be adopted when the tumour is made up of one large cyst, which may be a broad ligament cyst, and therefore curable by tapping, but, under other circumstances, it is by no means