DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 355 attempt at movement causes pain. The head of the bone can often he felt in its new position beneath the adductors (Fig. 459). The patient at times can, however, walk with such an injury. Dislocation upon the os pubis is the least common form of disloca- Dislocation tion, and is due to forced extension and rotation outwards of the thigh, after dislocation by abduction, the pelvis being thrown forwards and the body bent backwards as the head of the femur is wrenched out of the socket and then drawn upwards. It is marked by eversion of the limb and foot and abduction ; rota- Characters tion backwards of the trochanter, and consequent flattening of this region. The head of the bone can usually also be felt, if not seen, as a projection upon the os pubis (Fig. 460) or on some part of the lip of the acetabulum. When thrown above the bone beneath Poupart’s ligament, it forms a very prominent projection beneath or to the outer side of the femoral artery (Fig. 461). When the head of the bone is thrown between the anterior ilium, or between the inferior superior and inferior spines of the spine and the acetabulum, the head position. Diagnosis.—With reasonable care symptoms which characterise the different forms of dislocation, these dislocations of the hone will be felt in that and attention to the special Diagnosis of Fig. 461. ought readily to be made out, although cer- of up- tain fractures about the neck of the femur may present others somewhat similar. I have seen two cases of impacted frac- ture of the neck of the thigh-bone with the foot inverted and the thigh flexed, presenting symptoms so similar to those of dislocation into the sciatic notch, that the diagnosis could not be made out till the pa- tients were brought under the influence of chloroform, when, by gentle manipulation, the nature of the accident was discovered; the greater freedom with which the head of the hone could he made to rotate in the acetabu- lum, and the limp condition of the limb under chloroform in the case of fracture, forming a marked contrast to the immobility and permanent position of the thigh in dis- location. The late Mr. It. W. Smith (on ‘ Fracture,’ 1850) records also a case of fracture of the neck of the femur which had been mistaken for dislocation. When in the adult the displacement recurs, after the apparent reduction of the bone and the extending force has been removed, the probabilities are, that the lip of the acetabulum has been broken off, Acetabulum or the head of the femur fractured (vide Birkett, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans ’maybe vol. hi); and, when in a child, the displacement of the head of the bone cUip),ed- or upper epiphysis should be suspected; it being quite impossible under both these circumstances, to maintain the bone in position except by means of a long splint or weight to keep up extension In all cases of a doubtful nature, chloroform should be given for purposes Dislocatioa upon os pubis. From Astley Cooper.