197 EPIDIDYMITIS. second complication of epididymitis, more common than that just described, which is, the effusion of fluid into the tunica vaginalis or the production of an acute hydrocele, and I am disposed to think, that it is this apparent swelling of the organ which has given rise to the mistaken idea, that true testitis is a common affection after gonorrhoea. The enlargement of the organ from such a condition is, however, very different from that already described as due to an inflamed gland. It is more globular, tense, and elastic; it is certainly equally painful with that affection, but its true nature can he readily made out by its translucency, and the presence of fluctuation on palpation. It is the result of a direct extension of the inflammation from the epididymis to the tunica vaginalis, and the following explanation of its occurrence by Gendrin, as given by Curling, who assents to its soundness, seems most satisfactory, since it is certainly borne out by clinical observation. He says, “when the subserous cellular tissue, which always participates in the inflammation of a serous mem- brane, penetrates into the interior of an organ, it becomes a ready means of commuuicating the inflammatory action, but when the con- tiguous organ in subjacent parts is of a different structure from that of the cellular tissue, the extension of inflammation inwards is checked. Thus, in the case of the inflamed tunica vaginalis, the cellular tissue readily transmitted the morbid action to the epididymis, but the tunica II albuginea arrested its progress to the body of the testicle, and this ex- plains the fact that, after inflammation of the tunica vaginalis excited by injection, the body of the gland is rarely found to suffer. On the other hand, the epididymis is seldom attacked with inflammation with- out the disease being quickly propagated to the tunica vaginalis.” The hydrocele, as a a rule, however, disappears as the disease subsides in the epididymis, it being exceptional for the former condition to remain when its cause has been removed. As a consequence of this epididymitis, it is by no means uncommon for a considerable thickening of the seminal ducts and of their surrounding cellular tissue to remain for many weeks or even months. In the majority of cases, however, this result does not take place, for in the healthy subject there is every reason to believe, that with the inflammation all effusion disappears, and the organ is left as sound as it was before. In the cachectic patient this happy event does not, however, always take place, and more or less thickening of the inflamed part will generally he observed, the epididymis feeling indu- rated and enlarged, and in parts nodulated and cordy. It has been a disputed point by pathologists whether this condition ever leads to an atrophy or destruction of the testicles, or whether it has any influence upon the true function of the organ in causing sterility, and upon this point I have no positive facts to adduce, though I have certainly seen a wasting of the glandular structure of the testicles after inflam- mation, the result of an epididymitis. In one instance, I witnessed inflammation of the body of the testis in a young man who married at a time when he had a marked induration of the epididymis, the result of an attack of inflammation some months previously. I entirely attributed the inflammation in his case to the retention of seminal secretion from the obstruction to the seminal duct the result of the old epididymitis, since we know that all ducts or canals, when surrounded by organised inflammatory products, are liable to obstruction or stric- ture, and it is only right to believe, that the spermatic ducts are Hydrocele. Obstruction of seminal duct.