ON FRACTURES. 373 Intra- uterine. In infancy. connected; but fractures may occur at any age, while separation of the epiphyses is rarely found in subjects above twenty-one. A fracture may be met with at every period of life; indeed, it may Time of life, occur in utero from some external violence, and, when the accident has taken place some time antecedent to birth repair may have gone on to completion although in most cases with deformity, the vis medicatrix natures being, as Billroth well observes, a better physician than surgeon. I have seen this in an infant who was born with a humerus bent at right angles, evidently from a repaired intra- I’m. 473. uterine fracture. The fractures of infancy are comparatively rare, and are commonly incomplete or “green-stick.” Fig. 473 illustrates this in the cla- vicle, and Fig. 474 in the parietal bone. The latter was taken from a child, set. eight months, who was thrown out of a perambulator on the pave- Case of. ment. No symptoms of brain disturbance followed the accident at any time. The drawing was taken on the second day following the acci- dent. The case occurred in the practice of Mr. Harris, of South Hackney. In such cases as these, the depression in the bone may, as time passes, be gradually pressed out, but in others it is permanent. Fractures in the adult are mostly complete, though an incomplete fracture may oc- Incomplete fracture of the clavicle. From ‘ Holmes’s System.’ Incomplete fracture. cur. Impacted frac- Fio. 474. tures (Fig. 475) are chiefly found in the aged, the bones at this period of life being more brittle than they are in younger subjects. They are commonly met with in the neck of the femur and the lower end of the radius, although they occur in the neck of the humerus, and other parts. Thus in Fig. 512 is illus- trated an impacted fracture of the shaft of the femur. Men are more ex- posed to fractures than women on account of their more constant liability to injury, and those bones suffer the most that are the most exposed to external violence, hence the frequency of fracture of the lower extremities. Impacted. Incomplete fracture of the parietal bone of infant.