426 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Diagnosis. Starred and vertical fracture. Character of uniting medium. Bony union possible. Treatment. Posterior splint. records a case in which five inches existed, is well shown. In Fig. 521, the separation Fig. 521. Fracture of the patella. Separation of fragments. The diagnosis of the trans- verse fracture is rarely diffi- cult, the nature of the violence, the sudden loss of power of the limb, the distinct separation of the fragments, and the bulging of the synovial sac between the divided portions of bone, being characteristic. In thz starred fracture the different pieces of bone may be made out. In the vertical, the diagnosis may be more difficult, and can be only made out by manipulation. In exceptional cases where either the ligamentum patellae or the tendon of the extensors above the patella is broken, some difficulty may be felt, but such accidents are very rare. When the transverse fracture is little more than a fissure, no separation will be found, the amount of separation being determined by the extent of laceration of the fibrous and tendinous coverings of the bone. When the laceration is partial and the separation slight, there is a better hope of a bony or close union than when the laceration is complete and the separation great, and it should be known, that union by bone may take place although pro- bably but seldom ; that union by strong ligament, with about half an inch to an inch of separation, is more common; but that non-union is not rare. William Adams, in the ‘ Path. Trans.,’ vol. xiii, informs us that, out of thirty-one specimens he examined, fifteen were examples of ununited fracture, twelve of true ligamentous union, and four doubtful. In tbe unuuited the separation was very great, in the liga- mentous, it was rarely beyond an inch and a half. In tbe ununited the separated fragments were only connected with each other by a single layer of fibrous tissue. That bone union takes place is now generally recognised. In Prep. 121175. Guy’s Museum (Fig. 522) the fact is well exemplified. The specimen has been fully described with remarks, by the late Mr. W. King, in the ‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ series i, vol. vi. In the starred or vertical fractures osseous union is generally secured, these cases being rarely attended with complete laceration of the periosteal or fibrous covering of the bone. Treatment.—In all cases, as well as in every form of fractured patella, a long well-padded posterior splint with a foot-piece extending from the tuberosity of the ischium to the foot should at once be adjusted, the knee- joint being left uncovered by the bandage. To the knee-joint, a bag of Fig. 522. Anterior surface. Vertical section. Fracture of patella united by bone. Taken from my father’s museum.