261 EXCISION OF THE BREAST. On the Importance of Enlargement of the Absorbent Glands as a Diagnostic Symptom. When some enlai’gement of the axillary or clavicular glands exists On enlarged with a chronic tumour of the breast, the malignant nature of the disease 8 is rendered probable; for the simple adenomata are generally unat- tended by such a complication, and with the cystic affections it is also rare. Many months, however, may elapse in cases of cancer of the breast before the appearance of this symptom, because enlargement of the absorbent glands and infiltration of the skin have some connection. In cancerous affections, the enlargement of the glands is indolent and very painless. In the inflammatory affections of the organ, glan- dular enlargement and tenderness are commonly present. On the value of the Tubercular and General Infiltration of the Inte- qd gnment over the Breast. tubercular When the integument of a breast is sparsely or thickly studded with infiitmtbn'L shot or pealike tubercular infiltrations, or is so infiltrated with netv a symptom, material as to present a brawn-like feel and aspect, there can be no question as to the cancerous nature of the disease, since such a symptom is never present in any inflammatory or simple disease of the mammary gland. The infiltration may be slight, from the mere shot- or pea-like affection of the skin, to its more brawny infiltration ; but in all ;i stages it is equally characteristic, and speaks in positive language of i the cancerous nature of the mammary growth, one tubercle telling ‘ as plain a tale as if many tubercles existed. Cachexia.—I have no belief in the existence of a special cancerous Cachexia ns a cachexia. A cachexia may be present in cancer as in any exhausting or symptom, wasting disease; hut that of cancer differs in no single point from that of any other affection. When a cachexia exists, it indicates the pre- sence of some affection which is undermining the patient’s strength, which may he cancer, hut, it may be any other form of disease. On Excision of the Breast. There is no great danger attending excision of the breast beyond On excision that which accompanies any, even the smallest, operation. It is true of the breast, that patients occasionally sink after the operation from pyaemia, ery- sipelas, or visceral diseases, hut these contingencies attend any operation for wound ; from the excision itself there is little danger to life. From Mortality in my notes of 133 cases of cancer in which excision was carried out I excision.' find that nine died, or about 6'7 per cent., while in three only, or 2-2 per cent., could the death be ascribed to the operation. One c nisea of died from pyaemia, on the thirty-fifth day; one from erysipelas, con- death, tracted several months after the operation, when the wound had healed ; two from acute bronchitis, three weeks and a month respect- r ively after the excision; one from profuse diarrhoea, on the eighth day, probably pysemic; one from haemoptysis in the third week; two from I exhaustion after a return of the growth, in three and six months; and > one from actual sinking after the operation on the third day. The ) three cases which died from pyaamia and diarrhoea which was also ( probably pysemic, and the one which sank on the third day may, i perhaps, with justice he directly assigned to the operation, but the i fatal termination in the remaining six examples had no reference what- :i ever to the excision. In the operations for innocent tumours of the