284 ON OVARIOTOMY. Brotlie’s view. Use of eai-bolised catgut ligature. Division of pedicle by actual cautery. Conclusions . as to the 1 treatment of the pedicle. more general practice. I may mention here that Sir B. Brodie had some confidence in this practice, for in 1843, when discussing the case upon which Mr. Aston Key had operated without success, at Guy’s Hospital, he expressed his belief, that the right treatment of the pedicle was to drop it in and close the wound, and that if success could be secured, it would be by such means. I make this statement on the authority of Dr. Oldham, who heard the remark. In a fatal case recorded by Dr. Peaslee in the ‘ American Journal of Medical Science,’ July, 1865, in which this practice was adopted and death followed the operation on the seventeenth day, the extremity of the pedicle was found to be atrophied, but not sloughing, and the li- gature was covered with an exudation of lymph which had already become somewhat organized. In a case occurring in my own practice, the pedicle was secured with a carbolised catgut ligature which was cut short and dropped in, and, when the patient died a year subse- quently, from some other cause than the disease, no traces of the ligature were visible, nor even an adhesion, the fimbriated end of the divided pedicle being free. In our profession, however, a theory when once established rapidly developes, and a practice which is based on a received principle soon improves. The professional mind having realised the fact that the pedicle of an ovarian tumour might with safety be strangled by a ligature, dropped into the abdomen, and the wound closed; and, having been taught by the results of experience that the strangled extremity of the pedicle did neither decompose nor set up any peritoneal mischief, looked out for some other plan of treat- ment by which the presence of the foreign body, the ligature, might be done away with. As a result, the division of the pedicle by the ecraseur was tried, while that by the actual cautery has been in- troduced. The use of the cautery is a bold practice, and has the advantage of past experience in its favour, since from the earliest times the hot iron has been a favourite means of arresting haemorrhage, even from large vessels. In the veterinary art it is also still con- stantly employed. Mr. Baker Brown, to whom the credit of its application is unquestionably due, informs us that his experience of this form of practice is very good, and that of Skolberg of Stockholm is certainly startling. But haemorrhage at times follows the prac- tice and renders it uncertain. I have lost two patients from this cause. On the whole, the evidence seems to indicate that the practice is good in certain cases—that in short, fleshy, and broad pedicles, the cautery is efficient, but that in the long and thin it is unnecessary, other treatment being more applicable. More facts, however, are required before the cautery can be generally received into practice, although by means of the cautery, aided by the crushing of the extremity of the pedicle, safety may be found even in extreme cases. What, then, it may be asked, is the right treatment of the pedicle of an ovarian tumour ? Is it always to be secured by one method P and if not, under what circumstances is the plan to vary ? Going back to past experience we have ascertained that if the pedicle is to be tied, it should be in at least two places; and that all traction on the pedicle, and as a consequence on the uterus, is to be regarded with apprehension, and, therefore, to be avoided.