602 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. Pig. 631. by its anatomy, for although in cases of disease these guides are greatly obscured, they are still of value, and in cases of injury they are always reli- able. The accompanying figure will help the student. On the inner side of the foot, not far from the inner malleolus, the tubercle of the scaphoid (a) is to be felt as a marked prominence; about half an inch in front of this will he found the articu- lation with the cuneiform bone (b), and one inch beyond this the joint which the surgeon will have to open in Lis- franc’s or Hey’s operation (c); just above the tubercle of the scaphoid will be found the articulation with the as- tragalus, the line of Chopart’s ampu- tation (d). On the outer side of the foot, one inch below the external malleolus, a sharply defined projection will always be felt, which is the peroneal tubercle (e), and half an inch in front of this will be found the joint which separates the os calcis from the cuboid, this joint, forming the outer guide to Chopart’s amputation. Half an inch in front of this again, or one inch from the tubercle, the prominence of the fifth metatarsal bone is always to be felt (h), the line above this prominence indicating the articulation with the cuboid bone, which forms the outer boundary of the incision for Hey’s or Lisfranc’s opera- tion. All these points should be looked for in the healthy foot, and learnt so as to be readily recognised in the injured or diseased. Hey’s amputation (Lisfranc’s). Surgical guides to foot as expressed by anatomy. The credit of introducing this operation must be accorded to Hey, for the date of the first case he published was 1797, whereas Lisfranc’s paper -was only published as a suggestion in 1815. Hey’s The operation consists in the removal of all the toes with the meta- operation. tarsal bones by disarticulation, although it seems, from reading Hey’s observations (1814), that disarticulation of the metatarsal bones was not essential, since in one of the two cases recorded, the cuboid bone was removed with some part of the astragalus, and in the second “ the projecting part of the first cuneiform bone which supports the great toe was divided with a saw,” and in others he stated, that be sawed through the metatarsal bones when the joints were not removed. Description “ The operator,” writes Malgaigne, in describing it, “ should use a of operation. sma]i ]{n;fe with a solid strong back, and only one edge. In operating on the right foot the patient should lie on his back, and the surgeon, facing the foot, should grasp it with his left hand, the thumb and finger re-