518 CARIES OF THE BONES. On caries. Definition. Periosteal caries. Articular caries. Syphilitic caries. f Endosteal caries. or the simple removal proved unsuccessful, is scarcely a justifiable pro- ceeding. To gouge away bone that is inflamed and not dead, or to excise inflamed bones that nmy undergo repair, is a proceeding which is practically bad and scientifically unreasonable; for all bone that is not dead is reparable, and to interfere with it mechanically is bad surgery. The great success of the operation for necrosis (sequestrotomy) is unquestionably due to the introduction of anesthetics. Prior to their introduction the operation was difficult and dangerous, in- deed, it was rarely performed, amputation having been too often substituted. Caries. No word in surgery has been used with greater carelessness and with a greater variety of meanings than caries, nor is there one that conveys now a less definite idea. In this section it will be applied to an unhealthy inflammation of' bone, chiefly of cancellous bone. When superficial, it is often associated with ulcerative or mole- cular death, when deeply placed or central, with necrosis or suppura- tion, and may or may not be associated with syphilis or struma. It is pathologically remediable and reparable, and whenever found is mixed up with reparative processes. In patients of feeble power and some constitutional cachexia, or where the disease is very extensive, it may, however, clinically be incurable, and thus require surgical interference. Nevertheless, in its nature it is inflammatory, and should be looked upon as a curable affection, depending more upon constitutional than local causes. In this respect differing from necrosis. A bone is said to be carious on its surface when being exposed it presents an irregular and worm-eaten appearance, and is suppurating, and the sore throws off a serous, more or less offensive, purulent discharge, -which contains excess of phosphate of lime, mixed with small fragments of bone tissue. This affection is generally associated with an ulcer or open sore of the skin over the parts, and more or less thickening of the periosteum and bone around and beneath the diseased portion. It is always vascular, and readily bleeds on being touched. It is occasionally painful. At times the bone is soft and yields to the pressure of the probe; in other cases it is hard. When it attacks the articular surface of a bone it often forms pits with sharp well-defined edges, and under these circumstances has been looked upon as scrofulous, but with what amount of truth it is difficult to say. When it is associated with syphilis it follows the suppuration of a node. At times it is complicated with the tubercular thickening of the surface of the bone itself, or with what Paget has described as annular ulcers, in which a spot of ulcera- tion is seen which goes on to form a circular trench round a worm- eaten surface. This trench increases in width- and depth, and at last loosens a sequestrum, which separates and leaves a circular de- pression. In bones of the skull this ulcer may involve one or both tables. This ulcer may subsequently heal, leaving a permanent depression. “ Caries,” in fact, is inflammation and ulceration of bone, “ necrosis ” is its death en masse, A bone carious in its interior is vascular, although softened some- times almost to rottenness, and easily breaks down ; it discharges often