RETENTION OP URINE. 151. Incontinence of urine oiteu present, Retention from enlarged prostate. Treatment. Retention due to an elongated prepuce. It is not to treat retention of urine, however, that the surgeon is usually called to such cases. An incontinence of urine is generally the form of malady which attracts notice, and from this the surgeon rightly infers that a case of severe retention of urine is before him, the incontinence being merely the overflow of an already overdis- tended and engorged bladder. The symptom of incontinence is a very positive one, and should never mislead any practitioner. It is almost always a concomitant and result of retention, and should be so regarded, at any rate until the surgeon has convinced himself, by a careful examination, that the bladder is not distended. Eetention of Urine as a symptom of Enlarged Prostate, and in the Aged. It has been a common opinion held by all surgeons for many generations, that an enlarged prostate is a very general con- dition of old age, and retention of urine, as a consequence and symptom of this affection is of frequent occurrence. The inves- tigations of recent pathologists have shown, however, that such an opinion is by no means correct; for although an enlargement of the prostate, either as an hypertrophy, or from the development of independent prostatic glandular tumours may take place, and, when it does, it is most commonly met with in old people, yet such a condition is by no means to he considered as a senile change. When retention of urine takes place in old people in whom no stric- ture exists, it is too frequently ascribed to this chronic enlargement of the prostate, and as it is really a rare thing to find such a condition in the bodies of those that die, it is fair to believe, that this retention is due to other causes, such as atony of the bladder, which may be re- lieved by the introduction of a large catheter. This operation should always be undertaken with great care, as an injury to the prostate or bladder in old people is of considerable consequence. An elastic in- strument with a full curve, in the hands of those who are not in the constant habit of using instruments is to be preferred, and this may be passed slowly down to the neck of the bladder. It is at this point that the difficulty in its introduction is always experienced; but if the index-finger of the left hand be introduced into the rectum and the end of the instrument tilted upwards by the slightest pressure with the right hand, the catheter, as a rule, will be readily passed onward, and relief secured. Retention of urine may also be produced by an abscess situated in the prostate gland, and the retention is only relieved when the abscess has been opened. This treatment, therefore, is that which should be followed. Eetention of Urine as a result of an Elongated and Adherent Prepuce. It is a somewhat inexplicable fact that surgical writers have, with rare exceptions, omitted to notice that an elongated prepuce and adhesion of the glans penis to its mucous membrane covering, is capable of producing retention of urine with every symptom of vesical irrita- tion ; yet few surgeons can have had much experience at any hospital or dispensary, particularly in out-patient practice, without seeing many such examples. I could quote cases in which an adherent prepuce had been the cause both of retention and of incontinence of urine, and in which it had produced symptoms of irritable bladder and every