STRICTURE OP THE URETHRA. 128 l’liosphatic diathesis as cause. Symptoms of stricture. Retention. Altered stream. Retention may be due to spasm of muscles. Frequency o retention in organic stricture. Irritable bladder. Rectum affected. Urine altered. I have been unable to discover that tbe so-called pbosphatic dia- thesis has any influence in exciting the formation of an organic stric- ture, or any other urethral disease, although this is a point upon which Sir B. Brodie has largely dwelt; but there can be no doubt, that any morbid condition of the urine has considerable power in exciting a spasmodic contraction of the muscular walls of the urethra more par- ticularly when an organic stricture exists, and of inducing retention of the urine. Symptoms.—In a large proportion of the cases of simple organic stricture, an attack of retention of urine is the first thing which attracts the attention of the patient, which may have followed some indiscretion in diet, excess of drinking, or exposure to cold. It is then, perhaps, for the first time, that the patient can bring to his recollection the fact, that other less marked but not less certain symptoms, had existed previously for some time. It may be that a chronic gleet had been present for many months, or that some urethral pain or difficulty had attended the act of micturition, that the stream of urine had been somewhat narrowed, divided, twisted, or of a screw shape; or that micturition had been more frequent or prolonged; yet these symptoms by themselves had failed to make sufficient impression upon the mind of the sufferer as to lead him to suspect the existence of a stricture. It must not be thought, however, that the retention is usually caused by the gradual contraction of the stricture, though in excep- tional cases such a condition may exist, yet it is tolerably certain that in the majority, the retention is due to some spasmodic action of the urethral muscles at the seat of stricture, for very slight causes appear capable of exciting spasmodic action of the canal in a diseased urethra, and consequently giving rise to retention; spasmodic and organic stricture being generally combined. Indeed out of 483 cases of stricture consecutively admitted into Guy’s, 129, or more than a fourth, were suffering from retention. When the stricture is not discovered under these circumstances, it will, if not detected early, soon give rise to other and more characteristic symptoms. The stream of urine will gradually contract so that it will at last cease to exist, the urine passing only in drops. The bladder will become so irritable that the patient will have to rise frequently in the night to micturate, and the effort will be attended with pain; a small quantity of urine, moreover, will probably also be passed; symptoms affecting the rectum will soon appear, and the straining during the act of micturition will be associated with tenesmus; these symptoms at times being so severe as to necessitate, whenever natural relief is sought, the use of the stool instead of the chamber vessel. Prolapsus recti, or piles, also frequently complicate the case; while incontinence of urine may follow. Under these circumstances, it is clear, that the bladder is never emptied, although some small quantity of urine may be passed at each act of micturition. The retained urine, undergoing partial decom- position, acts as an irritant, and becomes cloudy and ammoniacal, depositing more or less mucus and phosphates. The urine collecting, gives rise to distension of the bladder, which, pressing on the rectum, excites tenesmus and prolapsus, and, interfering with the return of the venous blood, to piles. As the distension increases, the bladder loses its power of contraction, and consequently expands till it overflows—the