DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 36 A May require division of teudo Achillis. Dislocation of foot forwards. Treatment of dislocation of the ankle. Mode of keeping bones in position. Splints, &c. Treatment of compound dislocation of ankle. When resection necessary. of the tibia and fibula projected so far forward as almost to rupture the soft parts covering them. The accident was caused by wrest- ling. The dislocation was reduced by flexing the leg on the thigh and by manipulation; but no means could he found to maintain the hones in position till the tendo Achillis was divided and the leg placed on its side and fixed on an outside splint. Mr. Cock (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1855) has recorded a case of the same accident in a boy, set. 16, where the same difficulty was experienced. He divided the tendo Achillis and bound the foot in splints, and a good result was obtained. Dislocation of the foot forwards is probably more rare than the last, and is generally only partial. It has been described as dislocation of the tibia backwards, and is known by precisely the opposite symptoms to those last described. The heel is shortened and the foot lengthened, the upper surface of the astragalus being capable of recognition by the fingers. Poland records such a case (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1855), in which the whole foot was much elongated and the posterior part of the astragalus caught in the anterior part of the tibia and fibula and wedged in tightly. Reduction was only effected after the division of the tendo Achillis. Treatment.—The lateral displacements of the foot are not difficult of reduction by extension and well-directed manipulative force. The flexion of the knee facilitates this operation by relaxing the muscles of the calf. To keep the bones in position, a Macintyre or flat posterior splint extending up to the popliteal space, with foot-piece and two side splints all well padded, are sufficient, as a rule, the surgeon using his judgment as to the amount of pressure and padding that may be demanded. In some cases where it is a very difficult matter to keep the parts quiet from the action of the gastrocnemii muscles, the tendo Achillis should be divided, the foot, after this simple operation, being perfectly passive, and entirely in the hands of the surgeon to place and to keep in any required position. The limb should subsequently be slung in a proper swing, Salter’s being the best. In hospital practice, two or more pieces of bandage slinging the splints to the cradle answer well. In the displacement of the foot forward or backward the same kind of treatment is appli- cable ; but in these accidents, it is expedient, as a rule, to divide the tendo Achillis at once. This should be done at any rate when the slightest disposition to displacement is found to exist, the treatment of the case being by this operation rendered more simple and certain. The splints should be retained for at least six weeks, and afterwards passive movement allowed. The patient should not bear any weight on the limb for another month. The treatment of compound dislocation of the ankle-joint cannot be reduced to any definite rules. Each case must be treated on its own merits. In young and healthy subjects, more may be attempted in the way of saving the joint than in the old or cachectic. When a small wound exists, operative interference is only exceptionally needed; but when a large one with projection of the bones, it is a question whether the better practice lies in the reduction of the dislocation after cleans- ing the projecting bones, or in their resection. When the bones cannot be reduced by ordinary force, their resection becomes a necessity.