323 CONTRACTION OP FINGERS. Ogston’s operation. Fig. 429. Tenotomy in contracted limbs with diseased joints. aching, something less should be allowed, and so on. Exercise sufficient to get and keep the muscles in order may be allowed, but not sufficient to tell upon the weakened ligaments. In other cases, as an additional means, strapping the knees may be of great use; in extreme cases only splints or irons should be employed. These latter instruments when used, should extend from the pelvis to the foot, and be well jointed. Double splints are of little use in these cases, as in the simple they are not wanted, and in the severe they are useless. In very severe examples operative interference may be justifiable. In the ‘Edin- burgh Med. Journal’ for April, 1877, Dr. Ogston reports a case in which by means of Adams’s saw he divided vertically and subcutaneously the inner condyle of the femur (vide Fig. 429), and so forcibly straightened the bent limb with the best result. The operation has been repeated eighteen times since, with good results. When the knees give out instead of in from the same cause, similar principles of practice are applicable. Besides all these recognised affections there are many other conditions in which tenotomy is a valuable operation. Thus, in the contracted limbs which are asso- ciated with bip, knee, or other joint dis- ease, it is often necessary to divide the rigid and contracted tendons or muscles that forbid the limb being straightened by the application of any ordinary or justifiable force; while mechanical means can then complete the object the surgeon has in view. It is better to divide than to tear a tendon. Contractions of the fingers. In this affection where the flexor tendons and the palmar fascia together produce a permanent contraction of first one and then the other finger so as to draw them into the palm, some operation is called for. This affection is curious, generally appears in the little finger, Course, subsequently involving the ring-finger. It often attacks both hands, together or consecutively. It is said to be found more frequently in gouty or rheumatic subjects than in others, but I have failed to verify this statement. It is also difficult to trace the origin of the disease to any local injury; in fact, this affection is somewhat obscure. It may attack the middle finger or any and all of the fingers, but more commonly it is the two outer. From its symmetry it has probably a constitutional and not a local origin. It is often hereditary, but possibly not more so than any other deformity. Treatment—By fixing the contracted fingers in a flexible splint Treatment, and gradually stretching them, much may be done, and in several cases I have effected a complete cure by these means. But it is difficult for men patients to submit to this inconvenience, and, as a consequence, the surgeon is only consulted when the disease is severe and the finger Drawing illustrating Dr. Ogston’s operation. Right limb shows line of section of the inner con- dyle of the femur. Left, inner condyle brought to required position. Contracted fingers.