DISEASES OE THE PKOSTATE. 71 the lateral lobes, so as to open out the neck of the bladder and render it constantly patent, the incontinence being due to overflow, the result of retention. In these cases, the use of a urinal is the only remedial means at the surgeon’s command, except in those caused by venereal excesses, when tonics, cold bathing, and absolute abstinence from all injurious habits may effect a cure. DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. The diseases of the prostate gland are of importance, placed as it is On diseased at the neck of the bladder and the commencement of the urethra, for Prostttle- on the one hand it may suffer as a consequence of urethral disease, and on the other, when diseased, it may give rise to bladder symptoms of considerable severity. Thus, it may inflame or suppurate as a con- sequence of urethral disease, gonorrhoea or stricture, and mechanically interfering with the flow of urine, cause retention. It may indeed undergo nearly complete destruction from suppuration, the direct con- sequence of stricture and possibly of extravasation. When enlarged from hypertrophy, stone, cancer, or any other cause, it may mecha- nically interfere with the flow of urine, and so give rise to bladder symptoms or bladder disease of no slight severity', and it may cause incontinence by the special direction of the growth of one of its lobes. Inflammation of the Prostate. This is usually due to the extension backwards of a gonorrhoeal in- Inflamed flammatiou, or, to the presence of a stricture. It may arise, too, as prostate, a complication of cystitis from the irritation of a calculus, the passage of a sound, or the application of caustics. It is also not unknown as au idiopathic affection in gouty subjects, and in those who indulge in sexual excesses. It is generally ushered in with pain in the perineum and bladder Symptoms, irritation, the act of micturition being attended and followed by pain, and often tenesmus. Def as cation ceases to be a painless act and is attended with uneasiness, sometimes with difficulty, and at last with distress. On manipulating the perineum, a deep-seated fulness will be felt, and on passing the finger into the rectum, the prostate will be found enlarged, spongy, and painful; rigors probably' will form one of the general symptoms with febrile disturbance, which will vary in severity according to the acuteness of the affection. If the inflammation advances to abscess, a throbbing pain at the neck Abscess of the bladder will be felt, with a constant desire to go to stool, and lorms- retention of urine is almost sure to occur. If left alone, the abscess will probably burst into the urethra and dis- charge itself externally with immediate and marked relief; while in other cases, it may open into the rectum. It sometimes happens that the abscess is ruptured during the passage of a catheter to relieve reten- tion, or during a rectal examination. When the disease is acute, the local as well as the general symptoms will be severe; but when chronic, they will be less marked though not less characteristic. As a result of acute inflammation, chronic disease is often left, as Chronic indicated by pain in passing water, irritability of bladder, a thin prostatitis, urethral discharge, cloudy purulent urine, and perineal, pelvic, and anal pain, which is increased on exercise or excitement. There may be