INJURIES OF THE PENIS. 365 Fig. 372. home, for, if the tissues are divided too rapidly, haemorrhage will take place. The heat should not be too intense. Under ordinary circum- stances, the operation is absolutely bloodless, and the subsequent pain slight. After the penis has been removed, it is wise to slit the urethra open for about half an inch, turn its two edges outwards, and fasten them with sutures. This step may be done at the time of the operation or during the first week, and is necessary to prevent the con- traction of the urethral orifice that may otherwise ensue. When the cautery is not to be had, the knife should be used, and the old opera- Amputation tiou consisted in the removal of the organ by one clean sweep of the wlttl bistoury, an assistant having steadied and compressed the base of the organ by a band of tape. The modern im- proved operation, which, I believe, was sug- gested by Hilton, consists in the introduc- tion of a narrow bistoury between the spongy and cavernous bodies, and after dividing the latter, the spongy body with the urethra must be cut through about half an inch more forward. The object of this is to make the urethra stand out from the stunted organ, and thus facilitate mic- turition. It is without doubt the best mode of amputating a penis with the knife. To prevent any tendency in the urethra to contract, it may be slit open or stitched back to the preputial skin. Fig. 372 illustrates the stump after such an ampu- tation. To arrest haemorrhage during the operation. Clover’s clamp for com- pressing the penis is very excellent, and ought to supersede the tape. Other tumours of the prepuce. The prepuce may be the seat of fatty, sebaceous, or even fibrous Tumour of tumours, though these are rare. It is not uncommonly the subject of the prepuce, what has been described as elephantiasis, although when the penis is Hypertrophy involved, the scrotum is usually similarly affected. I have, however, of prepuce, seen one case in a man aged thirty-five, where the penis was thus alone affected. The organ was immense, and frightful to look at. When in repose, it measured eight inches round and six long. The man came to me with a gonorrhoea; admitting, however, that he had never been able to have true coitus since the disease had existed, which was about four or five years. The disease is a chronic hypertrophy of the skin and cellular tissues. Nothing hut the excision of the redundant integument is beneficial. Stump of penis after operation. Injuries to Penis. These are not common, excepting such minor injuries as laceration Injuries to of the frsenum or prepuce, produced in coitus. Incised wounds, how- penis, ever, are occasionally met with, the products of insanity, jealousy, or malice; the parts require careful adaptation with sutures. The body of the penis at times, however, becomes the seat of injury from some rough bending of the organ during connection or otherwise ; and, as a consequence, when the immediate effects of the injury have passed