LITHOTOMY. 116 After- treatment. Introduction of tube not necessary. Exceptions. Position after operation. Difficulties during the operation. Care that staff is in bladder. force should this he required, as is most likely if the stone be large. Extraction being effected, the operation is completed.” As soon as the operation has been completed, the patient should be unbound and any bleeding vessels twisted. In children, the introduc- tion into the wound of a piece of ice, or the application to the wound of a cold sponge, with or without ice, is usually enough to arrest any hx- morrhage, and, in the adult, the same practice, as a rule, suffices. When, however, the haemorrhage is persistent, a piece of sponge or a sponge tent should be introduced into the wound up to the neck of the bladder; such a proceeding arrests bleeding, though not the flow of urine, which percolates through the sponge. The sponge may be removed at the end of twenty-four hours. This practice is strongly advocated by my col- league, Mr. Cock. Liston was in the habit of introducing a gum-elastic tube, six inches long, through the wound into the bladder, to carry off the urine for the first two days, and fastening it in with tapes. This practice is still followed by some. It is, however, quite unnecessary; and at Guy’s we use the tube only in exceptional cases—that is, when severe haemorrhage ensues, the wound being plugged around it. Dupuy- tren employed the same kind of tube, to which was attached a circular piece of oil silk at its centre like an unribbed umbrella; sponge or charpie was introduced between the tube and silk when bleeding took place, after the upper end of the tube had been intro- duced through the wound into the bladder. Matthews has adapted an india-rubber bag around the tube, which can be introduced into the bladder empty, and then expanded with air and water. It answers the same purpose as Dupuytren’s canule a chemise, and is, probably, more efficient. In exceptional cases, when the bulb is cut into, it may be necessary to apply pressure with the finger on the pudic artery to arrest bleeding. The patient having been placed in a bed, a good draw sheet should be placed beneath his hips and a pillow behind his knees to keep them flexed, while the knees should not be tied together. A sedative may be em- ployed to give rest, but beyond this, little or no medical treatment is required. The diet should be nutritious but unstimulating, and wine and meat given as soon as the appetite demands. The bowels, if not acting naturally on the fifth or sixth day, should be cleared by an enema or mild aperient, such as castor oil, and the horizontal position should be maintained till the wound has closed. Key has remarked that in children partial incontinence is apt to follow when this rule has not been observed. Sources of difficulty in Lithotomy, and how to avoid them. The difficulties connected with the operation are too often due to carelessness and too great speed, consequently they are mostly of the surgeon’s own making. If, however, he feels the stone and hears its ring before operating, he is sure of its presence, and knows also that the staff is in the bladder, and that it has not passed through any false passage in the urethra or between the bladder and rectum. If, moreover, before cutting he assures himself by touching the staff that it has not been displaced he has a direct guide down to the calculus.