TUMOURS OF THE BREA8T. 246 is, during the period of its structural and functional maturity, a reso- lution of the disease or a dispersion of the diseased products may be looked for. But, when it appears at or near the climacteric years, when the gland is suffering an effacement of its secreting mechanism and a withdrawal of its secretory force, no such a result can be ex- pected, and it is at this period that the greater number of intractable tumours occur. “ It is the climacteric effacement of the breast that gives a peculiar character to the disease in women, and there are well-marked struc- tural differences in the tumours according as they appear before or after that period. Those that develop after the climacteric years are perhaps the most common, as they are certainly the most intrac- table, and they have been the real source of ambiguity in the patho- logy of the organ. That ambiguity depends upon the circumstance that they occur in an organ which is gradually losing or has lost its characteristic structure.” Where the normal itself is vanishing, the departures from the normal are elusive. It seems probable, therefore, from Dr. Creighton’s investigation, that the adenomata, sarcomata, myxomata, and carcinomata have their type in a series of progressive changes which the gland undergoes in its physiological evolution. The feebler the intensity of the function, the more cancerous the disease; the higher or more advanced the evolution from the resting state, the more benign the tumour. Oil the diagnosis of tumour of the breast. Is there a new growth! Mode of manipulating, Birkett’s method. The Clinical Examination and Diagnosis of a Breast Tumour. From a practical point of view, tumours of the breast may be divided into inflammatory, adenoid or innocent, and malignant, for simple hypertrophy or excess of growth of the gland can hardly be classed among the tumours. The first point a surgeon has to determine when consulted by a patient who has “something the matter” with her breast, is practically the existence or non-existence of a tumour, i. e., is there a new growth developed behind, and in connection with the mammary gland ? or, is the disease from which the patient is suffering situated in the sub- stance of the glandular structure itself ? This first and most important question ought to be solved before a further step can with safety be taken; before the formation of a correct diagnosis of the case can be made; and it is quite impossible to magnify its importance. To do this, however, considerable care is necessary, and some manipulative skill must be called into requisition; as a careless examination will surely end in an uncertain diagnosis, and with this, a failure in treatment must necessarily follow. In examining a breast, therefore, with diagnostic intentions, the surgeon with the whole gland well in view, should place the palmar surfaces of his fingers over the suspected spot, and taking the gland in his hand manipulate it gently and in every part with his fingers and thumb ; when, if au isolated tumour can be found, he will in all probability detect its presence; if, however, he is uncertain upon this point, he should make the patient lie down, for “ if a patient be sitting or standing, and the breast is grasped by the finger and thumb, when induration of the gland itself exists, a sensation is felt as if a tumour were present. If, now, the palmar surface of the fingers be pressed flatly against the chest in the same part,