193 HEMATOCELE. A the sac, and usually at its posterior and lower part, the peculiar testicular sensation being produced by slight pressure. When caused by a sudden strain or injury, the enlargement will be 'When caused more sudden as well as rapid, and he found to follow close upon the by injury, receipt of the accident, while the rupture of the blood-vessel may he announced by the sensation of a sudden snap or giving way. The local symptoms are similar to those already described. The tumour, on its first appearance, may be somewhat soft and obscure, or clear fluctuation may be detected in it; hut if much time be allowed to pass before coming under observation, this fluctuation will not, in all probability be made out, for the effused blood rapidly coagulates, and gives rise to the sensation of a solid growth. The sac of the hsemato- cele whether tunica vaginalis or cyst, rapidly alters in character and becomes thick, and in certain cases fibrinous, or even cartilaginous; at first from the coagulation of the fibrine of the blood upon its inner surface, and, in cases of longer standing, from distinct inflammatory changes brought about by the presence of the blood acting as foreign matter. In some instances this thickening of the cyst is very great, even to the extent of half an inch. When a haematocele has followed upon a hydrocele, there will usually when he a sudden enlargement of the part after the strain or injury, accom- following panied with more or less pain, this pain apparently depending upon the hydrocele, amount of distension to which the cyst has been subjected. If it follows the operation of tapping, it will, as a rule, be recognised by the escape of more or less blood or bloody fluid at the time of operation, and the rapid re-filling of the hydrocele sac or cyst with a more solid and opaque material. To form a correct diagnosis of haematocele the history of the case is most important; indeed, more so than the local symptoms, for it is certainly true, that by the latter alone, in some instances, it is almost impossible to make out the true nature of the affection. By way of summary it may be stated that a haematocele is usually a Summary, uniformly smooth, tense, and »o»-transparent tumour, with an indis- tinct sensation of fluctuation, but with distinct evidence of testicular pain on pressure. It may be accompanied with pain during the early period of the affection from the distension of the cyst, but not at a later date, or during its chronic stage, unless softening down. As time passes, it will become harder, if no symptoms of inflammation show themselves; but on them manifestation, evidence of suppuration will soon appear, for hHematoceles have not, as a rule, a disposition to remain quiet like hydroceles, but tend to open outwards by the breaking up of the coagulated blood which has been effused, and the inflammatory process. The symptoms which indicate the presence of a haematocele of the Symptoms of spermatic cord are somewhat similar to those already described for l*®matocele vaginal haematocele, the difference in locality being remembered. It cor'd ematlC is generally produced by a blow or strain, as in the ordinary vaginal haematocele. It can he diagnosed by the suddenness of its appearance, or the suddenness of the enlarged hydrocele sac, by the opacity of | the swelling and tendency to consolidation which it possesses, also by the accompanying ecchymosis of the parts. Cases are recorded by Bowman, Curling, and others, in which this disease obtained enormous • dimensions, but such examples are very rare; the affection beino- very ) uncommon. ° J VOL II. 13