ON OVARIOTOMY. 276 when submitted to ovariotomy, and, as a consequence, should be studiously avoided. It follows, therefore, as regards the lookers-on at au operation, and all who may come in contact with the patient, that none who may bring infectious or contagious disease should on any account be admitted. The physician who is attending a case of puerperal fever is looked upon as a possible poisoner as far as con- cerns the puerperal woman. The medical attendant of a scarlet fever case, of erysipelas, or other contagious disease, should be re- garded in the same light in the presence of an ovariotomy operation, and be excluded. Hence, in hospital practice, great care is needed to exclude all such possible means of injury as have been briefly enumerated. I need hardly allude to the necessity of all bed and bedding, blankets, sheets, and hangings being perfectly fresh j all sponges being new, soft, well cleansed, scalded, and free from soap and grit; of flannel, when wanted, being fresh, and having been previously well washed in warm water ; and every instrument to be employed being scrupulously clean. The hands of the operator should likewise be thoroughly cleansed from soap just previous to the operation, and be well warmed, for manipulation with a cold hand cannot but prove injurious to an exposed peritoneum. Dr. Peaslee considers this fear of irritation from the handling of the intestines and peritoneal membrane to be so great that he bathes his hands with a preparation which he calls an artificial serum, composed of water four pints, white of egg six drachms, I and salt four drachms. This practice, however, has not been followed ] by any other operator, ofr"omRtUre The temperature of the room in which the operation is performed.— I There is still some difference of opinion on this point, among ope- rating surgeons, Dr. Clay, of Manchester, Peaslee of America, "and others, advising that the operating room be heated to 75° F. or 80° F., and a good supply of moisture engendered by the diffusion of steam, while Wells and others make no such rule. Speaking from my own experience, I have no faith in the adoption of such a practice. I would have the room heated to a comfortable temperature, 65 de- grees being amply sufficient, since a greater heat acts as a powerful depressant upon the patient, and can do no good. A warm room with good ventilation is what I always seek in preference to a hot one, with closeness. A cold damp room under all circumstances is to be condemned. ■■ Position of The position of the patient.—The horizontal position is that which j patient. patients suffering from ovarian disease can rarely assume, and when the tumour is so large as to require ovariotomy, this position becomes almost impossible. As a consequence, the half-reclining position is the most comfortable for the patient and convenient for the operating surgeon. It is the posture I have invariably adopted in the cases which have fallen into my hands, and I know of no good reason why it should be changed. Some operators have employed the sitting posture in pre- ference to any other, on account of the facility with which the turnout (an j be removed through the abdominal incision, and also on account of the advantages it gives in preventing the escape of the ovarian cyst-con- tents into the abdominal cavity. Mr. Hutchinson, for the same reason I prefers the patient to be turned partially on her side, but both these, postures are not only inconvenient to the operator, but have other Care to prevent contagion. Hospital rules in respect to operation.