Thomas’s splints. 613 fluid. Oil silk over all keeps it moist many hours. The lint must be damped night and morning. The zinc is thrust into the gland to he destroyed, with or without a previous bistoury puncture and strapped in its place. After about five days, if the zinc is removed the gland is found destroyed, and converted into a gray friable mass, very acid to test paper. The best place for the silver is over the sternum; the wire with the zinc being brought beneath the collar to the neck. Unless suppuration is excited, which is very rare, there is no pain. With some slight modifications, this caustic can be used for When keeping in check the growth of malignant diseases in parts, as the 0 rectum or cervix uteri, where other operative means are inadmissible or unadvisible. “ I have known,” adds Golding Bird, “ of its employ- ment in a case of the latter disease, where a rapid destruction of the growth and relief from pain was the result. A short rod of zinc was worn in the canal of the diseased cervix, and to it was attached a stiff copper wire insulated with gutta percha, which terminated in a silver plate that was strapped to the front of the abdomen.” Thomas's Splints for Disease of the Hip- and Knee-joints. By some oversight these splints were not noticed in their right places, but they are too good to be omitted, the one for hip disease being the only posterior splint we possess, and the other for knee disease answering admirably all the purposes of a splint, and permitting more freedom than any other. The hip splint consists of a long piece of malleable iron, one inch Thomas’s by a quarter for an adult, and three quarters of au inch by three sixteenths for children, extending from the lower angle of the shoulder-blade to the centre of the calf of the leg, to which an iron oval chest hoop, measuring four inches less than the chest circumference, is firmly rivetted to the upper end, and two half hoops to support the thigh and calf, as seen in Fig. 646. The vertical iron band is carefully modelled to the outline of the trunk and limb, and the chest hoop fitted to the sound side, but away from the diseased. The whole should be well padded, and bound to the body passing in the direction of the sound side over the posterior surface; and if this is efficiently done the diseased limb will be well supported, and the patient, if a child, can be moved readily from room to room. The curve of the instrument may re- quire alteration from time to time, as the flexed limb becomes extended, and the curved spine straight. The knee-splint is composed of a padded ovoid iron ring, three-eighths of an inch thick, to fit well up in the groin, and two vertical iron rods, ending in a patten hip-spliat. Fjg. 616. Thomas’s posterior splint as applied for hip disease. Knee-spiir