113 LITHOTOMY. ing the angle at which the knife enters the bladder will incur no risk of wounding the pudic artery. The knife may be conducted with deliberate care into the bladder, the resistance afforded by the prostate will be readily felt, and the hand of the operator should be checked as soon as he feels the prostate has given way.”—Key. The surgeon knows when he has entered the bladder by the absence of resistance, and occasionally by a rush of urine. He should remem- ber, however, that some urine will escape so soon as the urethra has been opened, and not be misled by the fact. The angle which the knife makes with the staff, regulates the size of the incision into the neck of the bladder. When the knife is in a line with the staff, the incision will be limited; the larger the angle the knife makes with the staff, the larger will be the wound. As a rule, a large wound can be of no advantage unless the stone is Size of very large. A small wound, however, is a disadvantage when the stone wound, is of medium size; for although the neck of the bladder is capable of a good deal of dilatation under moderate force, any severe laceration of the prostate is almost certain to be followed by bad results. Surgeons, differ much upon this point, some recommending dilatation in pre- Lateral lithotomy with Key’s straight staff. Taken from Key’s works. prefer free division of tissues rather than run the risk of lacerating them. Moderate dilatation is certainly free from risk ; while severe dilata- tion is dangerous, in-as-much as it necessitates great laceration. As a rule the incision should never exceed the limits of the prostate. The bladder having been opened, the third step of the operation Third step of remains to be performed, which consists in the removal of the stone, operation. This is to be done by means of forceps. The knife having been withdrawn on the completion of the second Points to he step, the index-finger of the surgeon’s left hand should be introduced attended to. through the wound into the bladder, guided by the staff; and the operator ought always to remember that, till the finger has been fairly passed into the bladder upon the staff, this instrument is not to be VOL. II. S