365 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. When the hones are much crushed, their resection should always be undertaken; indeed, it is a general feeling in my own mind, that in compound dislocations, as in compound fractures with a large wound, it is wiser to resect the ends of the projecting bones than to reduce them. Amputation of the foot should only be performed when the When soft parts and bones are much injured, and the age of the patient or “™P“ta,lon his want of power forbids the hope that a recovery with a useful preferred. limb can be secured. Before any attempt at reduction is made, the parts should be thoroughly cleansed. After the reduction of the dislo- After- cation whether simple or compound, the application of ice in a bag is of great value, or the treatment by irrigation. In the suppurative dislocation of stage, the latter practice is probably the better of the two. When the ankle, wound is only of a limited nature, it may be sealed at once either by lint soaked in blood, or, what is better, by the compound tincture of benzoin. Report speaks strongly in favour of washing out the joint in such cases with a weak solution of carbolic acid (1 part in 40), and then sealing the wound. Opposite the wound, an interrupted splint should be employed. Secondary amputation may be called for in these cases, on account of gangrene or a failure in nature’s efforts to effect repair, &c. Dislocation of the tibia and fibula at their lower articulation, with Dislocation a forcing of the astragalus upwards between the two bones, is an acci- °/eta^',falus dent which must be recognised (Fig. 468), and is usually produced by tibia and a jump from a height on the foot or feet. I saw a good example of fibula, it in 1869, in both feet of a man, set. 55, who fell from a scaffold. The malleoli were widely separated and projected, the depth of the foot from the ex- tremites of the malleoli was lessened, and the movements of the foot almost gone. No frac- ture could be made out. It was impossible to move the bones from the position in which they were wedged, although all means were used. Yet a good recovery took place, though with stiff joints. Sir W. Fergusson describes this accident, and gives a case. Dislocations at the tarsal joints are met with in practice, although but rarely. They are diffi- cult to diagnose, and still more to classify, since they are so variously described by different writers. The first to be noticed is the dislocation of the foot from the astragalus, which maintains its normal position between the malleoli. The pos- sibility of such an accident was doubted, till Mr. Dislocation of ankle. Pollock, in 1859 (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xlii) ,bet"pcel) n > tibia ana fibula. Cast published two cases. One occurred m Mr. 160, Guy’s Mus. Keate’s practice in 1823. The os calcis and scaphoid with the other foot bones were displaced outwards off the astragalus, and, in the other which occurred in his own practice, the same bones were dislocated inwards. A dissection of this case is* giveu. In the former instance the foot was everted and the head of the astragalus projected on the inner side of the instep. In the other, the foot was inverted, so that the sole turned inwards as in