60 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. A symptom of enlarged prostate. Diagnostic inferences. May be due to renal affection. Caution. On cystitis. Chronic cystitis. the aged, in whom no prostatic enlargement exists) this irritability of bladder is a complication of serious import, for in both classes of cases it is due to a want of power on the part of the bladder to empty its contents; in the one case from a mechanical obstruction caused by the prostatic tumour, in the other from a loss of power in the parts— the residual urine under both partially decomposing becomes ammo- niacal, and in this way acting as an irritant to the mucous membrane of the bladder, thereby giving rise to the irritability. The treatment of these cases is not, therefore, a task of difficulty; the removal of the residual urine, and the prevention of its subsequent retention by the cautious employment of a catheter being the most important, together with the frequent washing out of the bladder with warm water, or, water medicated by some solution of morphia, opium, quinine, or nitric acid. The recognition of the cause of the symptom, however, is the main point to he remembered, the practice to be followed readily suggesting itself when the cause is understood. As a sign of gravel, an irritable bladder is of importance, and a careful examination of the urine will determine its true meaning. As a symptom of calculus in the bladder, it is constant and valuable, although in some cases of stone it is extraordinary how little irritation the presence of a calculus will produce. As a sign also of organic disease of the bladder, irritability must not be passed over. The obscurity of this class of cases is, however, very great, and the correctness of diagnosis must rest upon the com- bination of many symptoms, none being of greater value than another. In women, this symptom is a common accompaniment of uterine affections, while in both sexes it is often associated with rectal disease. Lastly, this irritability may be the product of a renal affection, the urethra and bladder being perfectly sound. When, therefore, bladder symptoms exist, and a careful examination fails to discover any disease in the bladder or urethra, it may fairly be assumed that some renal affection is the cause. But a careful chemical and micro- scopical examination of the urine is alone sufficient to enable the surgeon to arrive at anything like a correct diagnosis. Irritability of bladder may also be produced by some cerebral or spinal disease, but the fact can merely be alluded to in these pages. The passage of a large quantity of urine, as iu diabetes, should not be mistaken for irritability of bladder. Inflammation of the Bladder. Cystitis is a common consequence of stone, prostatic disease, stric- ture, or gonorrhoea, and is usually chronic or subacute—the more acute symptoms mostly supervening upon the chronic. As an acute idio- ■ patliic disease it has been described by authors, but cliuically such cases • are very rare. The most acute are those occuring in gouty subjects : as a catarrhal affection. The chronic form is the direct consequence of local irritation pro- duced by the presence of a tumour, stone, or other foreign body; although it is found wherever the flow of urine is interfered with from either prostatic disease or urethral obstruction; the bladder in these cases being irritated by the retained and decomposed urine as