211 CYSTIC DISEASE OP THE TESTICLE. tain examples, the cysts are clearly made up of dilated tubes with pouches at their extremities, or, as lateral dilatations—these tubes being occasionally lined, as Mr. Curling was the first to observe, with tesselated epithelium and containing granular matter. I have failed, Varieties in however, to find this in all the cases I have examined, and am disposed t to look upon the presence of this tesselated epithelium as specially characterising a certain growth. Spermatozoa are invariably absent in the cysts or tubes of this affection, while cartilage or bone elements will almost always be fouud to exist either as small isolated patches or as filling the cyst, when the growth might be described as an enchondro- matous tumour, the cartilage being deposited in separate masses, and these masses being divided by a fibrous stroma. The true secreting portion of the testicle will often be found pushed up into some corner of the tumour, spread out over the cystic mass, or distributed between the cysts themselves, the tumour being invariably encysted in its own capsule; although, in rare cases, tumours of this nature will be found upon the cord and body of the testicle. The above facts, therefore, lead me to conclude that the majority of these are new growths follow- ing the great law which governs the development of all tumours, by taking on the likeness of the part in which they are developed, and that they are more or less built up as is the structure of the normal gland. The testis being essentially a tubular organ, all morbid growths developed in or near it have a tendency to assume a tubular or cystic character, this character varying in extent in different cases; the cystic or tubular and fibrous or fibro-plastic structure being found in dif- ferent degrees of perfection and quantity in different cases. We may thus find in the testicle, a tumour presenting all the Fibrous ami elements of the fibrous or fibro-plastic tumour without cysts, whilst in fibro-plastic another, in which the cystic formation more or less predominates, the tumours- same elements will exist in smaller proportions; and, in the majority of these examples, the true structure of the testicle will be found spread out to a variable extent over the special capsule of the new growth. In other cases, the new growth will be altogether free from any connection with the testis itself, and be found growing from the cord. All these separate kinds of tumours, examples of which may be seen in Guy's Museum, appear to me merely modifications of one kind of growth—the simple, or perhaps more correctly, adenoid growth of testis. We thus see a close analogy between these tumours of the testis and Analogy those of the mammary gland, as well as of the ovary, and find in all between the simple adenoid tumour partaking more or less of the nature of WaT^ the gland in which it is developed; and a also true cystic disease of testicles" the gland itself, the latter being evidently a special affection of the tubes and ducts of the mammary gland or testis, and not of the secreting structure. In both organs they are new growths, simulating more or less correctly, the anatomical structure of the true gland ° Symptoms and diagnosis. Haying described the special pathology of this disease, I pass on to Symptoms ot consider its clinical aspect, as well as to point out the symptoms which c*stic diaeasc indicate its presence, and help the formation of a correct diagnosis In °f tcst‘3' doing so I must premise, that the several forms of this cystic disease are to be recognised more by negative than by positive signs, since they ap- pear usually as painless enlargements of the organ, are of slow growth