357 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. sion of tlae limb being subsequently and successively employed (Pig. 463). In dislocation into tbe foramen ovale the reduction by flexion is likewise good, with subsequent circumflexion inwards, and extension (Pig. 462). In sub-pubic dislocations, tbe reduction by extension outwards and rotation is preferable. To carry out this reduction by flexion and manipulation, the patient should be placed on bis back on a hard couch and thoroughly anaesthe- ticised. The surgeon should then grasp the ankle of the displaced limb with one hand, and the ham with the other, flexing the leg upon the thigh, and the thigh upon the pelvis, at the same time liftingr the limb and adducting it towards the opposite side of the umbilicus. Having effected this movement, the surgeon should, by a semicircular sweep outwards, suddenly extend the limb and bring it into a straight line with the body (Fig. 463). If one attempt fail, a second may be made, and in by far the majority of recent cases success will attend the effort. “ If there is any single and best rule for reducing a recent dislocation of the hip,” writes Bigelow (‘ Lancet,’ June 15th, 1878), “it is to get the head of the femur directly below tbe socket by flexing the thigh at about a right angle, and then to lift or jerk it forcibly up into its place. This rule applies to all dislocations except the pubic. Flex and forcibly lift, and if this fail, flex and lift while abducting.” No roughness should be used, gentle, well-directed manipulation being all that is called for, the leverage obtained through the femur being enormous. Some slight rotation of the limb outwards or inwards, according to the necessities of the case, at times facilitates reduction. Callender insists (‘ Lancet,’ 1868), and I think wisely, upon the im- portance of not fully abducting or rolling the limb outwards, as, if this be done, the head of the bone is almost certain to roll past the acetabulum to its inner side; or, if an obturator dislocation is under treatment and the thigh rotated inwards, the head of the femur will roll round to the iscliiatic notch, just reversing the movement which takes place when an ischiatic dislocation is improperly manipulated. The object of the treatment is, to use the femur as a lever to raise the head of the bone from its backward position, and allow the stretched muscles to act naturally and draw it into place, the act of flexion com- pletely relaxing the strong ilio-femoral ligaments. The surgeon, with his knowledge of the way in which the head of the bone was driven through its capsule, using his best endeavours to make it retrace its steps, and employing his anatomical knowledge to press, elevate, or guide the malplaced bone into its normal position. The various move- ments adopted in reduction by manipulation, as well shown by Morris, serve to bring the head of the displaced femur down to the notch in the acetabulum by making it retrace the course it took in the process of dislocation, and then subsequently turning it back through the rent in the capsule by a rotation the reverse of that which occurred during dislocation. This method of reducing dislocations of the hip is known in France as I)epics’ method, in America as Reid’s. The former employed it in 1835 (vide Nelaton’s * Pathol. Chirurg.,’ 1847), but Dr. H. Bigelow has proved, that the credit of the method is really due to Nathan Smith, of New Hampshire (vide Memoirs, 1831). In a case of disloca- tion into the foramen ovale in a man, I failed in my first attempt by manipulation, but in the second I succeeded by the application of Mode of reduction l)y flexion and manipula- tion. Bieelow’s rule. Callender remarks. Tlie object of the treatment. Morris’s views.