350 DISLOCATIONS OP THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Excision. Dislocation of ungual phalanx of thumb. Dislocation of the phalanges. Dislocations of the hip. Causes. prevent reduction has been practised with variable success; and when this fails, excision of the part has been employed. In a case of this kind of six months’ standing, when the thumb was a useless member and the seat of pain, I excised the joint with excellent success, a moveable articulation being secured with hardly any deformity. When the bone is displaced forwards, it seems probable from the dissections of M. L. H. Farabeuf (Arch. Generates de Medicine, Sept.. 1876), that the extensor tendons of the thumb stretched on the inner or outer side of the metacarpal bone is the cause of the difficulty in its reduction, and, under such circumstances, forced flexion of the thumb upon the palm aided by manipulation is generally enough to replace it. Dislocation of the ungual phalanx of the thumb may take place in either direction, forwards or backwards, the last being the more com- mon, and the displaced bone being so small, difficulty is often felt in Pig. 452. applying extension to it. The puzzle (Fig. 451) is the best thing to employ for the purpose, or Levis’s apparatus (Fig. 452). At times, pressure with the thumb upon the displaced bone or forcible flexion will succeed. Hamilton pithily advises “ forced dorsal flexion in the case of the backward luxation, and forced palmar flexion in the case of the forward dislocation ” (p. 634, ed. 3). Dislocation of the phalanges of the fingers like those of the thumb, may occur in two directions, the backward being the more common. They are readily made out and easily reduced by extension, or flexion and then extension. DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Dislocations of the Hip. These are grave accidents and are found mostly in male adults, between 15 and 45 years of age, but occasionally in the young or old. Mr. Powdrell (‘ Lancet,’ 1868) has recorded a case in which the head of the femur was displaced into the foramen ovale at the age of six months, and reduced by manipulation, Erichsen has recorded another, of dislocation on the pubes, in a child a year and a half old. I have treated an instance of dislocation on the dorsum in a boy at. 6, and in a girl set ; but these are exceptions. On the other hand, they may occur in the aged, since Malgaigne has recorded five between the ages of 60 and 85, and I have treated one in a man aged 73, and in another aged 66 ; but at this time of life fracture of the neck of the femur is more common. The accident is always the result of violence, no slight force being required to tear through the ligaments that hold and bind the head of the femur in its deep pelvic cup; indeed were it not for the great