4 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. Plugging. Mode of plugging. as they are unquestionably good. If these measures fail, the nostril or nostrils must be plugged. Plugging nose.—To do this effectually, some skill is necessary; to do it otherwise, is useless, if not injurious. To plug from the anterior nares alone is to trifle with the haemorrhage.andmerely to mask the escape of blood as well as to direct it down the pharynx, under which circum- stances, severe loss of blood may take place without knowledge. To per- form the operation of plugging effectually, a plug of lint, cotton wool, a sponge tent, or compressed sponge an inch and a quarter long and an inch wide, should be prepared and fastened in the middle by a piece of strong silk or whipcord, an end about six or nine inches long being left. Fig. 300. Bellocq’s canula for plugging nostrils. With Bellocq’s canula (Fig. 300), a long-eyed probe, or an elastic cathe- ter, a double thread of the same strong material should be passed into tbe nose along its floor through the posterior nares into the pharynx, and the loop caught either by the fingers or forceps and held while the in- strument is withdrawn through the nostril. There will then be the loop hanging out of the mouth, and the two ends out of the nostril. The loop must then be fastened firmly to the pledget that has been prepared. This plug having been well oiled, is then to be drawn into the mouth by applying traction upon the ligatures protruding from the nostril, tilted with the finger behind and above the soft palate, and carefully adjusted or wedged into the posterior nares ; by which means the escape of blood into the pharynx will be prevented. The two cords hanging from the anterior nares can then to be separated, and the nasal cavity filled with compressed sponge, lint, or cotton wool which should be introduced between them, the whole mass being made secure by tying the two cords across the plug that has been introduced in front, and fastening them in a bow to allow of unfastening. When any styptic is deemed necessary, the sponge, cotton wool, or lint intro- duced into the anterior nares may be saturated with the solution of the perchloride of iron, tannin, matico, or a concentrated solution of alum. By this means the possibility of any escape of blood from either opening of the nose can be effectually prevented, and the most dangerous epistaxis absolutely controlled. Sir W. Fergusson once remarked that he had known after plugging the nares, blood to ooze up along the nasal duct out of the caualiculi, but such “ oozing tears of blood” must be very rare. To remove the apparatus, the knot at the anterior nares should be undone and the anterior plug taken out, the posterior being readily drawn from its position by means of the end