83 RENAL CALCULI. fawn-coloured amorphous deposit, and is soluble iu ammonia and hydro- chloric acid, insoluble in acetic acid. Heat dissolves only the urates of the urine. Potash dissolves all deposits except the phosphates and oxalate of lime. Hydrochloric acid dissolves all except uric acid. When any of the inorganic deposits just described mass together Formation of either by themselves upon any nucleus of organic matter such as blood sto»e, or a foreign body, a stone is the result. This stone may form in the kidney and remain there; it may pass into the bladder and be emitted with the urine, or rest there and increase; or, the calculus may have its origin in the bladder either from the precipitation of the earthy constituents of the urine, or, from the irritation of a foreign body introduced from without. A stone having a renal origin and resting in the bladder seems to have the power of extracting from the urine its inorganic elements, and thus rapidly increasing; oxalate of lime, urate of ammonia, uric acid, phosphate of lime or triple phosphate, being precipitated by its presence, and aggregating or crystallising upon its surface. It acts, too, after a time, as a foreign body, sets up bladder irritation, and, as a consequence, the phosphatic salts are deposited from the decomposition of the urine. Dr. Owen Rees has shown in his ‘ Croonian Lectures,’ 1856, that where irritation of the bladder exists either from a calculus, foreign body, or other cause, the mucous membrane secretes an alkaline fluid that tends to cause a precipitation of the earthy phosphates, and the formation of a phos- phatic deposit upon a calculus. Renal calculi are generally composed of uric acid, urate of ammonia, On renal or oxalate of lime, and Beale states, that microscopic renal calculi of calculi, phosphate of lime are by no means uncommon. These concretions mav Characters, be either impacted in the uriniferous ducts, lodged in pouches connected with the ducts and increase in the structure of the kidney, or pass into the pelvis of the kidney. They may be single or multiple and the size of a hemp-seed, nut, or walnut, or, they may be so moulded to the divisions of the pelvis of the organ as to assume an arborescent shape such as that figured (Fig. 336). Dr. Gee has lately recorded a case in which a renal calculus weighed 36£ ounces 0 Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1874). There is reason also to believe, that a renal, like a vesical calculus, may form upon a nucleus of blood the result of an injury. When the stone is fixed in the structure of the kidney, its presence may be indicated by but few, if any, local symptoms. When it moves about in the pelvis of the kidney, it gives rise to symptoms known as those of nephritic colic; paroxysmal lumbar pain, with nausea, vomiting, or collapse, irritability of bladder, and at times painful micturition and haunaturia being the chief symptoms. When the stone passes into the ureter all these are aggravated, epain shooting down the groin, thigh, and scrotum of the" affected