33 TRACHEOTOMY. been much liked; though the best by far is the ball-and-socket instru- ment (Pig. 316) I had made some years ago—its great advantage consisting in the mobility of the tube with the trachea, the neck plate being fixed. The rigid tube when required to be worn for long, too often excites ulceration by the pressure of its free end on the trachea, which may extend into the innominate artery. Mr. Morant Baker has re- cently introduced into practice a tube made of vulcanised red india rubber, which seems to answer well, and may be employed on the second or third day after the operation has been performed. Every metal canula should be double, and every canula fixed iu position by a piece of silk or tape passed through the shield and fastened round the nape of the neck. Fig. 316. After the operation, the atmosphere of the room should be kept warm After- and moist by the admission of steam, care being taken that the air is not treatment , saturated with vapour. The wound ought to be kept clean; strapping and sutures are rarely required; water dressing or sweet oil being pro- bably the best local applications. Great care should be observed to keep the orifice of the canula free from mucus and the inner tube clean. A piece of muslin should be placed over the tube to prevent the entrance of foreign bodies. Complications.—If the operation should be complicated by haemor- Complica- rhage the surgeon must not be alarmed. When arterial, it must be ar- tions. rested before the trachea is opened, either by the application of a ligature or by torsion ; if venous, the sooner the trachea is opened the better, for a few good inspirations do more to relieve the venous congestion, which is almost always present when tracheotomy is demanded, than any other attempt to check bleeding. As soon as the tube has been introduced, the patient may be rolled over on his side, to allow the blood to run away from the tracheal wound. A piece of sponge applied with some pressure over the wound is generally enough to arrest all venous bleeding, unless some large venous trunk has been opened. I have never known haemorrhage of this kind to be so copious as to in- terfere with the operation, or to be so persistent as not to cease readily on its completion. If the surgeon stops his operation till bleeding has ceased, he will too often wait till the necessity of the operation with the life of his patient has passed away. Opening of the trachea.—Tuere can be little doubt, that in patients On the after puberty, the trachea should generally be opened below the isthmus opening of of the thyroid gland, but in infants and young children where the ‘he trachea trachea is deeply placed and the neck fat and short, the nearer the m mfants- opening is to the cricoid cartilage the better. For several years I have VOL. ii. ' 3