EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. 473 the radius, which is often displaced backwards and somewhat out- wards, rarely takes place as a result of disease. Before fixing the joint at an angle, it is well in most cases to con- Position of suit with the patient, for in some, the straight position is the more nxingjoini. desirable. In the case of a painter I bad under care, a flexed elbow would have lost him his occupation. In another, of a bargeman, the joint was fixed at a right angle, with the hand pronated, to hold the oar. A carpenter asked me to fix his left elbow at an obtuse angle, and a haycutter nearly straight. In all these instances, any other position would have been most detrimental. In disease of the wrist and carpus, the same position of the hand D|seaMs^°f should be maintained as in disease about the elbow. . _ carpus In disease of the phalangeal joints when anchylosis is to he oh- phalangeal tained, I have of late years always fixed the diseased extremity at joints, such an angle as will allow its point to come in contact with the top of the thumb, having invariably found the straight positions of the finger very incovenient. In this position, the fingers are more useful and less in the way, and the deformity less observed. In these cases, the best material to use as a splint is a piece of zinc or tin, which is firm, thin, and takes up little space. ON OPERATIVE INTERFERENCE—EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. In the treatment of joint disease, next to the preservation of life, General the aim of the surgeon is, to preserve the natural movements of the remarks, articulation ; and when that hope has gone, to save the limb. If this end can be obtained with a stiff joint, the result in disease of the lower extremity may he regarded as satisfactory, and even in the upper, a stiff shoulder or elbow-joint at a useful angle, is not so bad a result as some would lead us to believe. When neither of these ends appears probable, possible, nor expedient, Questions for from the extent of the local disease, the general want of power of decision, the patient, or the necessities of the individual case, the question of operative interference comes before the surgeon, and he has to decide on the expediency of an incision into the joint, the removal of dead hone from or excision of the joint, or amputation; and to work out the many points involved in the solution of these questions is a task of difficulty, since, from joints having a different value in the human body, a form of practice which is applicable to one may be inexpedient to another. This difficulty, moreover, is doubtless aggravated by the different value which surgeons place on different forms of practice, and the estimation in which they regard natural processes; for one who has great faith in natural processes in the cure of disease, and Varieties of particularly of joint disease, will attempt to save a limb that another opinion will condemn, since he regards any practice as wrong that interferes reaPe=tiue with a natural recovery so long as any reasonable hope exists of se- mterference. curing such a result; and believes that a cure by anchylosis, how- ever acquired and however long a time maybe passed in securing it, is worth the attempt. Another, who has stronger faith in surgical treatment, will excise a joint, believing it to be inexpedient to