SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. 12 Treatment where ulceration. May end in necrosis. Necrosis ma originate in bone. May result from injury or syphilis. Fetor peculiar. Diagnosis. lnuco-purulent secretion can be allowed to remain to decompose, and so one of the most troublesome symptom of fetor will be removed and in future prevented. Medicated lotions are sometimes required, such as iodine lotion, Condy’s fluid, carbolic acid, the sulphate or chloride of zinc, or nitrate of silver, in the strength of about one grain to the ounce of water. The inhalation of the fumes of iodine is always useful. But ozsena does not always depend upon such simple local conditions. It may arise from some ulceration of the passage, an ulceration that may be seen through the speculum, and, if not seen, suspected to exist when an occasional escape of a blood-stained muco-purulent secretion takes place. The principles of treatment under these circumstances, are—tonics constitutionally, with cleanliness locally ; topical stimulants being em- ployed when simpler means have failed, or, when great indolence of the part is present. These cases are, however, very obstinate, and much time is fre- quently required to bring about a cure—several months being often not long enough; but the fetor, which is the chief symptom of annoyance to the sufferer, may speedily be removed by the mechanical and local means already suggested, and so the worst feature of the disease becomes destroyed, and the mental as well as the physical comfort of the patient secured. When, however, this inflammatory action and perhaps ulceration is allowed to continue, a different result will ensue; the bone itself becoming involved, and as a result necrosis follows. In so-called strumous sub- jects, this condition is not infrequent. I have no evidence to give that such a necrosis is always the result of the extension of the in- flammation from the soft parts around the bone to the bone itself. In many cases, if not in the majority, I believe the disease originates in the bones. Necrosis of bone in the nose is not an unfrequent condition, and, as such, is another cause of the disease described as ozeena. It is found in children as well as in adult life, and may be the result of injury, extension of disease from the soft parts covering the bones, or asso- ciated with the so-called strumous diathesis, or with the syphilitic poison. Occasionally it takes place without any such distinct cause, when it is described as idiopathic; it being well known, that inflamma- tion of bone may arise per se. When ozeena is the result of necrosed bone, the fetor is generally of a peculiar character, such as is well known to accompany diseased bone; and under these circumstances, by careful examination with the speculum or probe, bare bones will often be detected, by which the nature of the disease becomes tolerably evident. In early life, I believe that inherited syphilis is a more frequent cause of this affection than is generally suspected, and this opinion has been confirmed by the presence of other marked symptoms in some cases, such as old skin diseases, syphilitic teeth, or keratitis. To form a correct opinion in all cases of ozmna, a careful history of the case must be obtained and well-known symptoms not over- looked, for unless an accurate knowledge of the case can be acquired, the treatment adopted must be doubtful, and consequently unsuccessful.