DISLOCATIONS. 330 Cadge’s case, Diagnosis and symptoms of dislocations. Compare injured side with sound side. Deformity. Loss of voluntary power. Impaired mobility. May he separation of an epiphysis. comes gradually filled in with fibrous tissue, the muscles, tendons, and soft parts that have been torn or misplaced make fresh attachments, and ossific matter is deposited in the tendons. The mobility of joints after dislocation is at times impaired. How long these secondary changes take to form is not yet decided. In some patients they doubtless occur rapidly and in others slowly, as Brodhurst and Fournier both (‘ St. George’s Hosp. Kep.,’ 1868) record a case in which the cartilage of the acetabulum was found healthy, and the cups unfilled, three years and ten years respectively after a disloca- tion. Cadge also records a singularly instructive example (‘ Med.- Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xxxviii) of an unreduced dislocation of the head of the femur upwards between the two anterior spinous processes of the ilium of sixteen years’ standing, in which “ the new bone was deposited in such abundance that it formed a new and complete acetabulum, so complete as, indeed, to hold the thigh bone suspended after all the soft parts were removed, and make it requisite to saw off a large piece of the new bone in order to set the femur at liberty. The new cavity, thin at its walls and smooth on its outside was lined by a dense pearly white tissue which resembled fibro-cartilage. The head of the femur was still covered with cartilage. The old acetabulum had disappeared, partly by the absorption of its cotyloid margin by a deposit of new bone, and partly also by a mass of dense fibrous tissue.” Diagnosis and Symptoms.—-Typical examples of dislocation when seen at an early period of their existence are not difficult of diagnosis; although partial and even complete dislocations, some days after the accident, when swelling of the parts has taken place, are often obscure. The frequency with which such cases are overlooked, even by good men, forbids our saying they can always be made out. In every case of suspected dislocation, the surgeon should compare the sound with the injured side, as in doing this, he will at once detect the most obvious result of any dislocation, deformity, and be able to make out the direction the displaced bone has taken. He, moreover, will see whether the limb is longer or shorter, or more abducted or adducted than its fellow. The patient will not only have lost all power of voluntary movement, but the surgeon, by grasping the affected extremity will probably find when dislocation exists, that the movements of the joints are very limited, and the attempt to move it causes severe pain. There will also be an absence of crepitus, unless some days have passed since the accident, when the crepitus of effusion into the joint or into the bursae about the joint or tendons, will often be felt. Deformity, loss of the power of voluntary motion, and impaired actual mobility, coming on after an accident, are the three most marked symptoms of dislocation. Indeed, these symptoms by themselves, with the absence of crepitus, are usually enough to enable the surgeon to diagnose a dislocation from a fracture, although possibly they are not enough to distinguish it from the separation of an epiphysis. In subjects under the age of 21, the possibility should be entertained of any case of injury about a joint being due to some separation of an epiphysis or complicated with it. With respect to the diagnosis between the separation, of an epiphysis and dislocation Holmes, with his usual clearness, writes upon this point (‘ System,’ vol. v): “ Separations of epiphyses are distinguished from dislocation by the following characters :—(1) The