CANCER OF THE BLADDER. 67 by no means uncommon for some of the villous tissue to be passed with the water, and then under the microscope its true nature may be revealed. In a case I saw some time ago, with Mr. Dukes, of Canonbury, of a female child who had several attacks of haematuria, I caught in the eye of my catheter with which I was examining the bladder, a small | villous growth, aud accidentally pulled it away. Microscopically its structure was characteristic, and the child had no return of the disease. Pig. 323, taken from i a drawing, illustrates one of these i growths. Each villus is com- i! posed of elongated nucleated cells h and loops of blood-vessels, and is covered with columnar epi- thelium. Treatment. — There is no i cure for this affection, and the || surgeon can only relieve sym- j ptoms; pain and irritability of I] bladder by sedatives, retention I by catheterism employed with extreme gentleness, and haemor- rhage by astringents, as gallic acid and iron. Astringent injections have been recommended, The disease usually destroys life in about two years; but a patient of mine died lately who had symptoms of it to a marked degree, with occasional profuse haematuria, for eight years. The whole mucous surface of the bladder was covered with this villous growth, the bladder hypertrophied, and the kidneys diseased as in an ordinary obstructive affection. Cancer of the bladder is a disease of the old or middle aged, and may occur as a primary disease of the organ, but more commonly from extension of disease from the rectum, uterus, or prostate. It may assume the form of the hard, soft, or epithelial cancer. Haemorrhage is the earliest as it is the most prominent symptom, dysuria and all the other sigus and indica- h tions of obstructive disease of the urinary passages soon making their a appearance. Local pain of a lancinating character is tolerably con- h stant, and is referred much to the loins, thighs, and perinaeum. The m bleeding is often profuse and sudden, blanching the patient; cachexia ti soon shows itself, and death from exhaustion, with glandular enlarge- i; ments in the pelvis and loins. The urine often contains debris of broken-up cancer with the blood, I which when found, renders the diagnosis certain; yet the surgeon should '£ remember, that the epithelium of the bladder assumes such variable fa forms as to compel great caution in coming to any conclusion with «' regard to the nature of a growth from isolated cells. Masses of cells te or organized tissue are valuable diagnostic signs. Fig. 323. Thickened Wed/ of Bladder >hied walls of the organ. From drawing I6863, Guy’s Hosp. Mus. Treatment. Cancer of the bladder. Symptoms.