Tn hip joint. Congenital displacement of nip. 370 CONGENITAL MALFORMATION OF JOINTS. Congenital Malformations (dislocation) of Joints. It has been the habit of authors to describe cases included under the above heading as examples of dislocation ; hut it is clearly more correct to regard them as malformations, for as met with in the shoulder, clavicle, wrist, and lower jaw, they are always associated with a want of development in the hones, and paralysis of the muscles of the part. When seen in the hip, there is likewise good reason to believe that congenital deficiencies are also present, as the anatomical facts which bear upon the point support this view; one such is given by Cruveil- hier in the second plate of the second volume of his ‘ Pathological Anatomy,5 where an engraving of a skeleton in which this congenital displacement existed, shows it to he the result of a want of depth, from incomplete formation, of the acetabulum; and another is furnished by a valuable preparation in the Middlesex Hospital Museum (Prep. 12, series 3), in which there is practically no acetabulum, hut a strong capsule and a well-developed head of the femur without a ligamentum teres. This congenital displacement of the hip is by no means an uncommon affection, and is often mistaken for hip or spinal disease, more particu- larly when one joint alone is implicated. It generally affects both joints, occurs in female rather than male children, and in those who are in all other respects well in health and perfect in form, and although it has been boldly asserted that “ it is beyond doubt that this dislocation is produced at birth through downward force applied to the thigh in endeavouring to hasten the birth in breech presentations,” no evidence has been published to support the view. On reviewing Fig 471. Fig. 471a. Case of displacement of both femora. Anterior view. Side view. my own experience, I must add that it does not in any way encourage such an opinion, for whilst in no case have I been able to learn that