183 HYDROCELE. seen floating in the secretion, while in others spontaneous coagulation of the same may be observed. The thickening of the tunica vaginalis, moreover, which so frequently takes place in chronic cases, the presence of membranous bands and septa in the cavity of the serous sac, and the fact that this form of hydrocele may be produced by extension of the inflammatory action from the epididymis or the body of the testicle, point likewise to the same conclusion. It is not, however, so clear that an inflammatory action has any in- fluence in the production of the serous effusion in the congenital form of hydrocele,‘in which a communication still exists between the ab- dominal peritoneal cavity and the scrotal serous sac; indeed, it would rather appear as if the exudation was of a passive nature and merely an excess of the natural secretion of the serous membrane, since in many of these cases the fluid rapidly disappears under tonic treatment, being re-absorbed as the powers of the patient improve, and vice versd. The fluid of a vaginal hydrocele is invariably albuminous, as the Fluid of secretion of all serous membranes contains albumen in solution, and hydrocele, under the influence of an inflammatory action, this is markedly in- creased ; hence, the amount of albumen in the fluid of a hydrocele is determined by the nature and violence of the inflammatory action. In some cases of the vaginal, as of the congenital variety, we thus find it as a thin, serous, and saline fluid of a clear colour, slightly tenacious and albuminous, the fluid differing in no single point from the natural serous fluid of the peritoneal cavity, while in others, it is of a more tenacious character, varying from a pale amber to a deep straw colour. In some examples, the fluid will be stained with blood, in others it will hold cholesterine in suspension, at times being perfectly opaque and syrupy from the presence of such matters. It, is, however, in the old and chronic cases alone that these last conditions are to be observed. In the acute vaginal hydrocele, more or less fibrin will be found either In acute in solution, or in the form of false membrane or adhesions between the Ciise9- two surfaces of the serous nembrane; and, in the chronic, the walls of In chronic the cyst will be found to have undergone great changes; the thin caseB- clear membrane having become thick and opaque, owing to the organiza- tion of the inflammatory product which had been poured out into its tissue, and in certain cases containing cartilaginous or ossific deposits, while on its surface, it will present a firm fibrous appearance. In rare cases, suppuration lias been observed to occur in the tunia vagi- nalis, but this result is beyond my experience, except as the effect of some external irritation or plan of treatment which had been adopted for its cure. Uncomplicated hydrocele, or a simple effusion into the tunica vagi- nalis, unassociated with any disease of the testis or epididymis, is generally a painless and insidious affection ; it attracts attention mainly by its size, and demands treatment chiefly from the mechanical incon- venience it causes. It is generally of slow progress, and, as a rule will be found to have existed for many months before seen by the surgeon, the patient seeking advice only when the organ has become cumbersome, and from its weight, has excited some pain and dragging in the lumbar region.