175 CHANCRE. known by the appearance of a crop of vesicles around the corona of the glans, or upon the external or internal surface of the prepuce. It is generally attended by much local irritation and local evidence of inflammation, the vesicles when they burst often discharging freely. The affection runs its course in a few days, when the parts heal. A zinc lotion of three or four grains to the ounce expedites recovery, or, a solution of nitrate of silver gr. v to the ounce. The number of vesicles and their grouping is generally sufficient to enable the surgeon to diagnose this affection from a venereal disease. Chancre may be defined to be a sore the result of venereal contact, and On chancre, in a general way, is found upon the penis of the male and genitals Definition, of the female, but it may be seen upon other parts of the body, such as the pubes, thighs, lips, tongue, nipples, fingers, &c. &c., in fact wherever the secretion from a syphilitic subject may be applied to a raw surface. In by far the larger number of cases, this disease begins and ends as Generally a local affection; in a smaller it is a local inoculation of a constitu- local. tional disease, and is followed by syphilis. The sore is not syphilis, although it is the direct means of communicating syphilis, no more than the inoculation of smallpox is smallpox, although the inoculation may be the means of giving smallpox. So long as the disease is local it is comparatively unimportant, When local is however extensive and troublesome it may be in healing. But when- usually i ever it is the local inoculation of a constitutional affection such as ummP01t!UI'- syphilis, it is of grave importance, however apparently trivial may be the local sore. It becomes, therefore, a vital question to make out from the local Is a sore a appearances and conditions of the sore, whether it is likely to prove a' constitutional local disease only, or to be followed by constitutional symptoms, and 0ue ? to a certain extent this diagnosis may be made; that is, a surgeon may Karly from the external appearance of a chancre go so far as to say that in diagnosis all probability, this one will not be followed by syphilis, and that one di®cult- will; but he can do no more, as to dogmatise upon the point and to speak with certainty is beyond his power. The chancre which will not in all probability be followed by The soft and syphilis is the soft suppurating sore. The chancre that will in all the hard sore, probability be followed by syphilis is the hard non-suppurating sore. John Hunter thus described the indurated chancre:—“ The sore is Hunter’s somewhat of a circular form, excavated, without granulations, with chancre, matter adhering to the surface, and with a thickened edge and base. The hardness and thickening are very circumscribed, not diffusing themselves gradually and imperceptibly into the surrounding parts, but terminating abruptly.” In this description we read the type of the hard infecting chancre, the chancre of the inoculation of syphilis wherever found. Hunter adds, however, that “a chancre has com- monly a thickened base; and, although the common inflammation spreads much further, yet the specific inflammation is confined to this Hard chancre base.” An infecting chancre may, too, appear only as a crack, ex- not generally coriation, or indurated tubercle, without abrasion, attended with a suppurating bubo.