359 DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. attempt. Fergusson states that after three weeks, he has never seen a successful attempt. I have seen a dislocation on the dorsum reduced on the thirty-fifth day, with an excellent effect. Success has, however, been recorded in exceptional cases up to the sixth or eighth week, or even after six months, hut failure has more frequently followed the attempt. My colleague, Mr. Durham, in 1873, reduced one after the fifth month. Sir A. Cooper fixed eight weeks as the limit of time up to which the attempt should be made. When reduction has failed, good movement may often be secured after the lapse of time. The dangers Dangers of attending attempts at reduction are not theoretical. Inflammation and destruction of the joint are no infrequent consequences, and fracture old cases of the bone has been recorded by many surgeons. Dislocation of the knee or rupture of its ligaments has likewise taken place from the ex- tension employed, and with a fatal result. When fracture of the femur is associated with dislocation of the Dislocation lone, the latter should, when possible, be reduced by manipulation. In ^ femf™c,ure 1860,1 saw my colleague, Mr. Birkett, reduce with the greatest facility a dislocation of the head of the femur on the ramus of the pubis in a boy, set. 12, when the femur was broken below the trochanter, the bone slipping into place on the application of gentle, well-directed force. Similar cases have been recorded by Bloxam and M. Et&ne. When the reduction of the dislocation by these means has failed, some hope remains that when the fracture has united, a better success may be secured. Sir A. Cooper has related an example in which re- duction, by means of extension, was effected five weeks after the accident, in a youth about seventeen. Effects of dislocation.—The sciatic nerve may be injured at times Effects of in a dislocation of the hip, and as a consequence paralysis may ensue. „1fS|l1<’C!lt‘on Morris shows in his paper how this complication is caused, while Maclise in his illustrations gives a drawing illustrating how the nerve may be stretched, and Hutchinson (c Med. Times,’ 1866) a case in which the paralysis was permanent. Dislocations of the Patella. These are not common accidents, but when they occur are generally Dislocations caused by muscular action, and at times by the application of direct oftt*!j; force. They are most commonly met with outwards, occasionally p i e a‘ inwards, and very rarely edgeways. When the ligamentum patellae has been torn across, the patella is drawn upwards, and authors have described this accident as dislocation upwards. The dislocation ouitvards is usually seen in women in whom the Dislocation femora have a more oblique inward direction than in most men or in outwards, knock-kneed subjects, the bone resting on the outer condyle of the femur or on its outer edge ; in the former case the outer edge of the patella tilts forwards, and in the latter inner. The knee is usually slightly flexed; it looks broader and flatter, but the unnatural position of the cap marks the nature of the accident. In 1868,1 saw this acci- dent in a male child ten months old; the patella rested on the outer side of the condyle of the femur, and was readily reduced. Dislocation inwards is very rare, and easily recognised. It is al- Dislocation ways due to direct violence to the outer border of the bone. inwards. Both these accidents are attended with laceration of the synovial capsule.