FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 407 With the fingers, this rule will not hold so good, since it often happens .Care reclU11 ed that the loss of a finger will be found of less inconvenience than a stiff determining one. In a general point of view, a stiff metacarpo-phalangeal joint to a the angle at labouring man is an impediment, while to a gentleman it may be of ;g service, and at the same time preserve the comeliness of the part. A gj^ptake stiff first phalangeal joint will be most prejudicial in some trades, while place, in others it is of slight importance. A stiff joint between the extreme phalanges is rarely of much moment. The patient, however, should be consulted by the surgeon in all these cases, and the treatment moulded to the wants of the individual; since a position that may be good for one may be bad for another, and no one position is applicable to all. It is too common to find men applying at London hospitals to have fingers removed that have been saved, but fixed at bad angles; the stiff finger being an impediment to the free performance of their trade. In compound fractures and dislocations of the thumb, loose frag- Compound ments of bone should be removed and joints excised; as much as possible of the soft parts should be saved, and the wound left to natural c 1 1 *' processes for repair. To amputate a thumb for injury ought to be a very rare operation. In these injuries to the fingers the same principles of practice should be adopted, although modified by the wants of the individual case. To save a finger, and to amputate it months after Of the on account of some stiffness of joint or malposition is to waste tingeis. time. When a joint has been opened, and anchylosis must be looked for after a natural recovery, the propriety of making the attempt should be discussed before the practice is decided upon, when, if the decision be in favour of a conservative practice, the injured parts should be adjusted and fixed by means of a splint in the most favorable position. In most subjects, the straight is a forced and inconvenient position, Straight and not that ever assumed by nature, with the hand at rest. The best position not is the slightly bent, when the thumb and fingers can touch at their tips, t,ie or that which the hand naturally assumes when at rest. In exceptional cases, however, exceptional positions may be required. I have for years acted upon this principle, and always with advantage. The best splint for fingers is a piece of perforated zinc. It is thin, zinc splint, and can be bent to the required curve without trouble, as well as readily fixed on with stapping or lint saturated in tincture of benzoin. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Fractures of the Pelvis as of the cranium, spine, and thorax, are of Fraolures of importance, inasmuch as the visceral contents are involved, but when pelvis, no such complications exist, the injury is, comparatively, not dangerous. Fracture and dislocation of the bones commonly occur together, and may be regarded as alike in a clinical point of view. The anterior portion of the crest of the ilium is not rarely Of crest, broken from direct violence, and the accident is not serious. Rest in bed to keep the abdominal muscles quiet, and the application of a pad with strapping, or a broad pelvic belt when displacement exists, are the ordinary surgical means required. Fracture of the pelvic basin itself is usually the result of some crush- Of pelvic ing force, the weakest part breaking, such as the rami of the pubes. l)a3iu' In other cases, there will be some separation of the pubic bones at