SURGERY OF THE CHEST. 44 Mode of performing thoracentesis. Dieulafoy’s aspirator. Trousseau’s advice. Sudden death after tapping. On asphyxia, Causes. The Operation. In tapping the chest the following points should be observed—The ninth intercostal space should be chosen just in front of the angle, or the seventh midway between the sternum and spine. This latter spot can always readily be found by drawing a line with a string round the body on the level of the nipple, and midway between the sternum and spine, this line will cut the proper intercostal space. At this spot close to the lower rib, a small incision should be made through the skin and fascia with a lancet or scalpel, and through this the trocar and canula, warmed and oiled, should be introduced; the trocar as soon as it has perforated the chest should be withdrawn, the canula being pushed more home. When the operation has been performed for air or serum, a small instrument should be employed, and great care used to prevent the admission of air. For this purpose there is no better instrument than the pneumatic aspirator of Dr. Dieulafoy, or one of its modifica- tions, and Dr. Bowditch, of Boston, United States, a staunch supporter of this practice, reports (‘ Practitioner,’ April, 1873) that during twenty-four years, and in 270 operations, he had never seen any injury done by the aspirator. As a substitute, one of the canulas may be used fitted with a stop-cock or valve to prevent the admission of air. When the chest requires opening for the discharge of blood or pus, it has been already asserted that a free incision or large canula should be resorted to. I prefer an incision, and make it large enough to admit my little finger, and subsequently, a large india-rubber drainage- tube. Trousseau strongly advises the operation of tapping when serous effusion fills the cavity, as indicated by auscultation and percussion; when oppression of breathing also exists, it may be urgently needed, but this oppression, adds he, is one of the most deceitful of signs, and its absence ought not to inspire too great a feeling of security; as by refraining from interference we run the risk of losing patients, when the operation would assuredly have saved. In empyema he fixes in the canula and draws off the fluid every twenty-four hours, injecting the chest with a solution of iodine, one part of the tincture in six, every two, three, or four days. It should, however, be recorded that sudden death has taken place after thoracentesis for pleuritic effusion or empyema, although evidence is wanting to prove that any distinct relation exists between the opera- tion and death, since cases are on record in which sudden death ensued in the normal course of cases of pleuritic effusion. Trousseau has recorded examples of the latter kind, and Drs. Cayley and Broadbent of the former. (‘ Clin. Society,’ 1877.) Apncea, or so-called Asphyxia. Death from asphyxia, in the common acceptation of the term, means death from either the cessation of the respiratory process or the want of the ordinary respiratory medium (oxygen) the heart ceasing to act after the cessation of the respiratory’ process. Etymologically it means an absence of pulse. The more correct term is apncea. It is caused by whatever interferes with the admission of the air into the lung, by such acts as drowning or hanging; by diseases that mechani- cally block up the air-passages, or excite spasm of the larynx; by any external or internal condition of the thorax that prevents the admission of air into its cavity or interferes with its expansion ; by the want of the respiratory medium or by the inhalation of toxic vapours.