ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 315 lu. valgus, the peronei muscles are chiefly involved; in varus, the ad- ductors, particularly the twotibials; in equinus, there is contraction of the muscles of the calf through the tendo Achillis; and in calcaneus, paralysis of the same group. Club-foot is often hereditary, and more prone to attack the male Often branches of a family than the female, and in this respect seems to follow hereditary, the ordinary law of all deformities. In a case under my care of talipes varus, the child’s father, grandfather, and great grandfather on the father’s side had congenital talipes, while none of the female branches of the respective families were deformed. “ It is convenient, for practical purposes, to divide congenital club- Degrees of foot into three degrees of severity: the slightest, that in which the severity, position of the front of the foot, when inverted, is such that the angle formed by it with the inside of the leg is greater than a right angle, and in which the contraction is so moderate that the toes can easily be brought temporarily by the hand of the surgeon into a straight line with the leg, and the heel be depressed to a natural position. The second class includes those in which the inversion of the foot and elevation of the heel appear the same or little greater than in those of the first class, but in which no reasonable effort of the surgeon’s hand will temporarily extinguish the contraction and deformity. The third class comprises those in which the contraction of the soft parts and displacement of hard parts reaches the highest degree, so that the inner margin of the foot is situated at an acute angle with the inside of the leg, sometimes, or even almost in contact with it. Cases of the first and second grades may be respectively converted into the second and third grades by delay in the application of remedies, and by the effects of improper locomotion.”—Little. Talipes equinus is the most common form of the acquired talipes, al- t. equinus though Little positively declares it is at times congenital. It is found the more in every degree, from the inability to flex the foot beyond a right angle to a pointing of the toes, necessitating the patient walking upon the form"U heads of the metatarsal bones and phalanges, the head of the astragalus projecting prominently on the dorsum of the foot. Fig. 420 illustrates the medium and extreme forms. Talipes varus is the more common congenital form. Fig. 421 illus- T. varus the trates it in three degrees of severity. more It is very frequently combined with T. equinus, as seen in Fig. coute'nital 421a. The arrows in the figure indicate the direction of the con- form, vexity of the tarsus and metatarsus forwards and outwards; the perpendicular line through the axis of the limb shows the extent of the inward deviation of the metatarsus, by which the base of the little toe, being brought completely beneath the axis, has to support the entire weight of the body in walking. Talipes valgus may be of all degrees of severity, and may be con- Talipes genital or acquired, these two varieties presenting very different valg«s. appearances. Fig. 422 iilustrates the congenital form in two degrees of severity; and also the acquired. Talipes calcaneus is illustrated in Fig. 423. Talipes For a full detail of the anatomical changes of the foot under these calcaneus, different conditions, vide Adams in * Path. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. iii. Before considering the treatment of these affections it will be well to look into the principle upon which all interference must be