22 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Most frequent in right bronchus. Symptoms. Sudden fits of cough. Altered voice. Variation in breathing. Auscultation. Examples of impaction without symptoms. In the case of a child, set. 2£, on whom I unsuccessfully operated in 1864, a date stone was found impacted in the right bronchus, while its upper end was pressing against the left side of the trachea, and exciting ulceration (Pig. 311). The child lived four days. In another case recorded in my ‘Clinical Surgery,’ Part II, a bean was firmly impacted in the right bronchus, causing complete obstruction to the right lung. The fact that the septum at the division of the trachea is some- what to the left of the median line is probably the explanation of the right bronchus being more frequently the seat of the foreign body than the left. This was pointed out by Goodall of Dublin. The larger size of the right bronchus doubtless favours this tendency. The symptoms which attend the entrance of a foreign body into the air-passages are somewhat characteristic, although those that follow are often obscure. The most typical is a violent convulsive cough coming on abruptly, followed by difficult respiration, and a feeling of suffocation—this spasmodic cough being likely to recur at intervals on any movement. When the voice is altered in character, whistling or stridulous, it is suggestive of the foreign body being near the rima, and impacted; and when there is tenderness of the larynx on manipulation or pain, this suspicion is strengthened. When an extraneous body is in any part of the larynx, but more particularly in the ventricles, the spas- modic derangement to which it gives rise, too often proves speedily fatal. In children, rapid suffocation is a common result of such a cause, death being more from spasm of the glottis than from mechanical ob- struction by the foreign body. When the breathing of the patient is at times natural, and at others disturbed by a paroxysm of cough or dyspnoea, and when these symptoms are brought on by any movement or violent respiratory effort, it is probable that the foreign body is loose in the trachea or one of its divisions ; indeed, patients are conscious occasionally of the movement of the body. When by auscultation it can be made out that air enters one lung freely and the other feebly, the exact seat of impaction of the foreign body is indicated, and the amount of dyspnoea present will depend upon the closeness of the impaction. When the extraneous body has passed through the larynx into the trachea, there may be long intervals of repose between the attacks of laryngeal spasm; but any spasm may prove fatal. Many cases are now on record in which foreign bodies, particularly coins, have been impacted in a bronchus, and have given rise to no urgent symptoms for years. Dupuytren in one of his lectures given in 1833 relates a case where a coin was known to have been in the air- passage for ten years without producing any very distressing effects, and was found after death to occupy a tubercular excavation. Professor Gross gives a case in which a portion of bone is said to have been coughed up, after having been retained for sixty years. Cases such as these, however, should never allow the surgeon to rest satisfied, or permit a foreign body to remain in the air-passages ; for so long as it does, death may at any moment be produced by sudden convulsive laryngeal spasm. Difficulty of breathing is not uncommon as a consequence of the arrest of food in the oesophagus or lower part of the pharynx, and ah