ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. 585 ment which should reach several inches up the stump. The most durable aud reliable is a fine cotton cloth, with a thin layer of caout- chouc on one side, known in the shops as hat lining. The gauze is also extremely useful in the form of antiseptic bandages, whether to check a tendency to retraction of the soft parts ot a stump, or, for securing and completing a dressing. If strapping is required, common Antiseptic adhesive plaster may he rendered antiseptic by dipping it for a second strapping. or two in a watery solution of the acid; and it is most convenient to have the lotion hot, so that the strap is warmed at the same time by its immersion. It can then be applied effectively under the spray, which should always be used in changing the dressings of a stump, till the wound hasbecomesuperficial. The antiseptic atmosphere not only affords perfect security against the introduction of mischief, which it would otherwise be extremely difficult to avoid, hut has the great advantage of permitting free inspection and manipulation of the stump. When the spray is intermitted, the wound must he covered with a “ guard of rag dipped in the lotion. The ends of the adhesive straps should be overlapped by the gauze, to prevent them from subsequently conduct- ing putrefaction inwards. While discharge is free, the dressings should be changed daily; but as it diminishes, the intervals may he increased, till when there are merely a few minims in twenty-four hours the gauze may he left undisturbed for a week together.” “ Besides these antiseptic precautions, there are two other points Drainage, essential to bear in mind in carrying out the treatment, viz. to provide for the due escape of serum, and to protect healing parts from the irritating influence of the antiseptic gauze. For the first purpose I have found it convenient to lay in the wound a strip of lint soaked with an oily solution of carbolic acid (1 to 10), one end hanging out as a drainer, this being removed on the second day of the operation under the spray. For the second purpose it is necessary to protect the cica- trising part by interposing between it and the gauze a layer of oil- silk coated on both sides with copal varnish, and afterwards brushed over with dextrine to enable it to become uniformly moistened when dipped into a watery solution. It is thus immersed just before being laid upon the wound, the dressing of the wound consisting of an antiseptic to keep out putrefaction, and an unstimulating protec- tive to exclude the antiseptic.” “ For lubricating instruments intro- duced into the bladder I use a solution of carbolic acid in olive oil, 1 part to 20.” Lister uses also boracic acid in solution, or as lint, or ointment. “This practice,” writes Lister, “will be found by no means difficult Advantages or complicated. It requires no special skill, and the care which it is ulaimed- essential to take soon becomes habitual and instructive, and in the aggregate saves the surgeon a great deal of time, besides relieving him of a load of anxiety. For when a few days have passed without putrefaction, the dressings may be left unchanged for several days together, while at the same time the patient is felt to be absolutely secure against the various risks of pyrninia, erysipelas, hospital gan- grene, necrosis, osteo-myelitis, or exhaustion from profuse suppuration.” “Surely,” he adds, “these are advantages well worthy of our best efforts to attain them,” and in this I cordially a°ree; but more experience is wanted before these advantages that Lister claims for it are established. 1 am no convert as yet to the theory on which it