Division of muscle. Wry-neck resulting from spinal disease. Sprains of joints. Contusion of joints always serious. Treatment. 326 CONTUSIONS, SPRAINS, AND WOUNDS OP JOINTS. The operation of dividing the sterno-mastoid muscle either wholly or in part at its sternal or clavicular origin, must be subcutaneous, and requires much care, for important parts lie behind the muscle which may be injured. A punctured wound should be made over the part to be di- vided with a sharp-pointed tenotomy knife down to the muscle; a blunt - pointed knife ought then to be introduced with its edge turned towards the muscle close to its bony attachment, and all resisting fibres divided by turning the edge backwards, an assistant putting the muscle fully on the stretch; the muscle usually gives way with a distinct snap. The thumb or finger must then be applied to the part and a pad ad- justed, sufficient pressure being made to prevent bleeding, but no more. As already stated, extension should be made early in the case, after the second or third day, and the means adopted in the example quoted seems to be the best; it succeeded at any rate, where the usual instru- ments failed. When both insertions require division, it should be effected by two different punctures. Some surgeons prefer to divide the muscle from behind forward, but there is greater risk of injuring the deep parts by this practice than by the one advised. I need scarcely add that where wry-neck is due to spinal disease, no such treatment as the above is applicable. CHAPTER XXX. CONTUSIONS, SPRAINS, WOUNDS, INJURIES OF JOINTS, AND DISLOCATIONS. Sprains may be very slight or very serious injuries, and are more or less severe overstretchings if not lacerations of the ligaments that bind the bones of an articulation together, In the more severe instances are included lacerations of the muscles, tendons, and soft parts that surround the joint without displacement of the bones. They require rests and time in their treatment in order that repair may be complete; since neglected sprains are often the cause of joint disease. Contusions of joints always ought to be regarded in a serious aspect, for a large amount of internal injury may often be sustained with very slight external evidence of mischief, and, under certain conditions of health, a slight blow or sprain is often enough to set up severe local action or to excite chronic changes which may involve the integrity of the joint. During the period of the growth of bone in children these observations have great force. The nature of the accident and the amount of force concentaited on the joint is the best index to the case, and, under all circumstances, the prognosis should be guarded and the treatment cautious. Treatment.—“ In sprains of joints, rest is the first principle,” said John Hunter in 1787 (MS. Lectures), and at the present day the same words are as pregnant with truth as when first spoken; indeed.