DISLOCATIONS. 329 DISLOCATIONS. A joint is said to be dislocated when the articular surface of one bone On is displaced from another, and, when the hone is wholly displaced, the aislocatlons- dislocation is called “complete,” hut when otherwise, “'partial or incom- plete. When a wound communicating with the joint complicates the case, it is known as a compound dislocation, and when not so associated, as a simple one. Congenital dislocations are cases of malformation, and the displace- Congenital, ments of bones produced from disease are accidental complications of Pathological a more serious affection. In the present chapter neither of these two displacement, conditions will receive attention. Dislocations are mostly caused by external violence, hut they occa- Causes, sionally occur from muscular action. Dislocation of the lower jaw is the most familiar illustration of this fact. I have known, however, the head of the humerus to be displaced by the exertion used in the violent throwing of a stone, and by the spasm of muscles in an epi- leptic fit. I have, likewise, seen the hip-joint dislocated by mere mus- cular action. Schoolboys are also familiar with the dislocation of the thumb at the carpal joint, which some young persons who possess relaxed ligaments are capable of producing at will. Laceration of the ligaments more or less complete as well as of the Effects, capsular ligament, is a necessary accompaniment of all dislocations, Primary, the muscles and soft parts that surrrouud the injured articulation being likewise, generally much torn. At times the nerves are pressed upon or lacerated, as at the shoulder, and the main artery may be divided in severe injury at the knee-joint. In all joints, more particularly in the ankle, dislocation may be complicated with fracture. After a dislocation has been reduced, most of these injuries are Secondary steadily repaired, although some weakness of the joint often remains, effects, but when nerves have been injured, more or less local complete paralysis or want of power follow in the muscles supplied by the injured nerves. When a dislocation has been overlooked or neglected, other secondary and in a measure reparative changes take place and a new joint is New joint, formed. To effect this, inflammatory products are poured out around the bone in its new position, which organize and ossify (Fig. 431). The cavity thus formed becomes lined with a dense layer of fibrous tissue, putting on the external aspect, and serving instead of cartilage. The head of the bone becomes at the same time altered in shape, and surrounded by the condensed cellular tissue of the part, which answers for a new capsule. A large amount of mobility is often secured, par- ticularly in the ball-and-socket joints. When, however, the original articular cavity be-