HERNIA TESTIS. 20S Treatment of tubercular testicle. Attention to general lieal th. Rest. During inflammation During suppuration. When testis large and disorganised. On hernia testis, “ benign fungus.” Character. Causes. Condition of parts. in its different stages, and of watching the various form of its depo- sition, its changes, and decay. Treatment of tubercular disease of the testicle.—When tuber- cular material has been once deposited in a testicle as in any other tissue, there are no recognised means by which the absorption of this material can be procured. It is true that it may remain in an inactive or passive condition for an indefinite period, and finally, by under- going an earthy degeneration, cease to trouble; nevertheless, it will still exist, ready as it were, on the least disturbance, to light up some inflammatory action in the tissues around, and to give rise to any or all of the various conditions just described. Looking also upon, the deposition of tubercle in a testicle as only one of the local manifestations of that general condition described as tuberculosis, it is clear, that the principles of treatment should be of a general character to improve the health and revive the powers of the patient by tonics, good living, good air, regular habits, and, what is of great impoi’tance, total abstinence from sexual excitement or gratifica- tion. Indeed the parts should be maintained as much as possible in a quiet condition, and for this purpose, cold sponging night and morning is of some service. When inflammatory symptoms make their appearance, they will generally run their course in spite of treatment; for, as already shown, they are usually caused by the breaking down of the tubercular deposit, and may be looked upon as one of nature’s means for its elimination ; indeed, until this material has been discharged, their subsidence is not usually to be expected; fomentations in this stage and the applica- tion of water dressing to the part are, therefore, suitable, while support in a suspensory bandage, should be resorted to. When suppu- ration is nigh at hand or has manifested itself, it is good practice to open the abscess freely with a lancet, as it saves time and pain to the patient and often prevents the formation of the sinuses which prove so troublesome. During all this time the health of the patient must be attended to by ordinary measures. When the gland has attained a large size and is evidently destroyed by abscesses and disintegration of the infiltrating material, it may be excised, and more particularly if hernia testis has appeared and the disorganised testis is a source of trouble and weakness to an enfeebled patient. On Hernia Testis. This affection, which has been variously described as “granular swelling,” and “benign fungus of the testis,” has also more cor- rectly been called “ hernia testis,” for it is essentially a gradual pro- trusion of the substance of the gland through a rupture or ulceration of its fibrous envelope, the tunica albuginea. It may follow upon suppuration of the body of the gland the result of an injury, or of an acute or chronic orchitis, or from the softening down of tubercular deposit. It seems to be the result of pressure produced by the natural elasticity of the fibrous tunica albuginea; the testicle, as it were, being gradually squeezed out of its capsule and everted, the mass being eventually increased by the free granulations which spring up on its surface. The whole organ, or only a portion of it, may thus be extruded from its natural position, the extent varying according to the amount of disease and the size of the opening in the tunica albuginea and