MOLT.ITIES ossium. 532 Atrophy. Example. Elongation o bone from in- flammation. Arrest of growth from injury to epiphysis. Mollities ossium. Durham’s views. Atrophy Is most commonly mot with in the shafts of bones that have not been used for many years, as in paralytic subjects and persons who have been the subjects of joint disease; in the bones of the aged, and in those that have been injured. The botie may become a mere shell, its cancellous tissue being expanded, and its cells filled with a fatty matter. When atrophy follows injury, Curling’s suggestion (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xx) that the causes may be found in injury to the medul- lary artery is probably right. This probably happened in the case of a man who came to me with an ununited fracture of the humerus, in whom I found the bone on exposing its ends for operation to be a mere shell and not half its normal thickness. It, however, cannot be the only explanation, as Norris has recorded (‘ American Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ 1842) a remarkable case, in which after a double fracture of the humerus about its centre, the whole bone disappeared, the forearm subsequently swinging as a thong, while the arm became shortened six inches ; the bone disappeared “ by the gradual action of the absorbents.” In these cases, spontaneous fracture or fracture from slight muscular action is very prone to occur. f These cases of hypertrophy or atrophy must not be confused with the elongation of the shaft of a bone which is due to inflamma- tion, or to the shortening of a bone from arrest of its growth follow- ing disease or the removal of the shaft, or to some injury to the epiphysial cartilage that connects the shaft with the epiphysis; for it cannot be too strongly impressed upon the student’s mind that any disease or injury which interferes in any way with the nutrition of the epiphysial cartilage through which the long bones mainly grow, will be followed by arrest of the bone’s growth, and consequently, by the shorten- ing of the limb; that is, when the disease or accident occurs in early life during the period of growth, I have before me the notes of several cases where this result ensued. In one in adult life, the tibia was an inch shorter than its fellow after the removal of a necrosed shaft in childhood (vide Tig. 580); in another, nearly the same amount of shortening followed an injury to the superior epiphysial line of the tibia; and in a third, the same result followed after a displacement of the lower epiphysis. In all these cases, the fibula was curved outwards, the shaft of the bone bent, and the outer malleolus much lower than the inner, the bone having grown as the others. In one case, the head of the fibula was partially displaced outwards. Mollities ossium, or osteo-malacia is a rare affection, and its cause wrapped in obscurity. It is found in men in about one case iu ten of the affection, and in women is usually discovered during, even if it does not originate in, pregnancy. It. chiefly attacks subjects wbo, from some cause or other, have been subjected to prolonged depres- sing influences, more particularly upon the nervous system. My colleague, Mr. Durham, in an able paper on the subject (‘Guy’s Rep.,’ 1864), writes “ that mollities ossium is to be regarded as a particu- -1 lar expression, as it were, of a general morbid condition of the system, rather than as a special disease of the bones themselves,” and I believe there can be little doubt as to the soundness of the opinion. It should never be confounded with rickets, or with the fragility of the bones met with in the aged or demented.