i 90 STONE IN THE BLADDER. If the urine he alkaline from fixed, alkali as indicated bv the per- manent change in the test paper, the earthy phosphates or the carbonate of lime calculi are indicated; if from the carbonate of ammonia the result of decomposition of the urine, the mixed phosphates; that is, a crust of these is being deposited upon an unknown nucleus. When a small stone has been previously passed and examined, great help is given towards the formation of an opinion, and also when gravel has been passed. On frequency In England, one person in 100,000 dies annually from stone, in Scotland of Stone. one in 50,000, and in Ireland one in 200,000. The proportion of deaths varies greatly in different districts. Cadge informing us, in his very able address given before the British Med. Assoc, for 1874, that in Norfolk, the mortality from stone is one in about 42,000,and in Cheshire, one in about 425,000. In the sexes. The bills of mortality indicate, that ten males die to one female from calculous disease, and stone is said to be found in men twenty times more frequently than in women. It is probable, however, that stones form as readily in the one as in the other, but that in women, owing to the shortness of the urethra and its capability of dilatation, they are more readily discharged, large stones not being rarely dis- charged in the female sex by natural efforts. (Vide Stone in Female.) Aire at which The statistics of M. Civiale, Coulson, and Thompson indicate that with" US m6t a^ou^ 60 per cent, of the cases of calculi are found in subjects under twenty years of age, 10 or 12 per cent, in those between twenty and forty, 12 to 15 per cent, in those between forty and sixty, and about 10 to 12 per cent, above sixty. But iu taking these absolute numbers and comparing them with the relative numbers of persons living at the different periods of life named, it would appear, that children and young persons are less liable to calculous disorders than has been commonly supposed, and that for twenty years and upwards, the tendency goes on increasing in a very remarkable manner to the end of life; or, as Sir H. Thompson puts it, that the “proportion of elderly calculous patients to the existing population at their own ages is larger than the proportion of children afflicted is to the number of existing children.” Two thirds of the cases of stone that have come under our notice in hospital practice are in children, and half of these are under five years of age. These young ones are, moreover, generally of a healthy and ruddy aspect, and form a contrast to those admitted for other diseases, the formation and presence of a stone in youug life being apparently not incompatible with good health. Causes of With respect to the causes of stone I concur, with Cadge, that Stone. “ it is safer to attribute lithuria to dyspepsia and mal-assimilation, which probably concerns all the digestive organs, than to fix the fault mainly on one,” and that this condition arises from the want of milk as an ordinary article of diet, for whilst in the children of the poor, stone in the bladder is so common as to constitute half the whole number of cases met with in practice, it is seldom seen in the more opulent classes. STONE IN THE BLADDER. When a stone has descended from the kidney into the bladder it may give rise to no more marked symptom than a slight urinary irrita- On calculus vusicse.