160 AFFECTIONS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS. Not to mistake suppression for retention of urine. himself against falling into the error of mistaking suppression for re- tention; as in all cases of supposed incontinence he should remember that it may be due to retention and overflow. Extravasation of Urine in Children and Retention from Impacted Urethral Calculus. Impacted urethral calculus. Extravasa- It has been already explained how retention and extravasation of urine in the adult may be produced by the mechanical obstruction of a urethral stricture. It remains to show how, in children, the same effects ensue from a mechanical obstruction of a very different kind. I allude to the obstruction caused by a urethral calculus. A vesical calculus when small and ejected from the bladder may become lodged or impacted in any portion of the urethra, and, as a consequence, give rise to every degree of difficulty of micturition, even to a retention of urine and extravasation. And although in adult life I have seen complete retention, I have never seen extravasation occur as a result of impacted urethral calculus. In infancy and childhood, however, almost all the examples of extravasation of urine that have passed under my observation have been the product of such a cause; I have seen it in an infant fourteen months old, and in many others older. When a case of retention in a child comes under notice, and there is no phimosis, paraphimosis, or adherent prepuce by which this symptom may be produced, a strong probability exists that a urethral calculus is the cause. Indeed extravasation of urine in childhood is almost inva- riably the result of an impacted calculus, the impaction commonly taking place in the perinseum, the stone rarely passing into the penis. Treatment.—If the calculus can be removed by forceps carefully used, this practice is the right one to adopt; it is, however, rarely successful, and, where these means fail, the stone must be excised. When extravasation has taken place, the urethra must be opened in the perinmum by a free incision upon a grooved staff. The stone is sometimes lost in the sloughing tissues. By way of summary of the causes of retention it may be stated that to the causes retention in a male child is usually due to a urethral calculus, phimosis, of retention. paraphimosis, adherent prepuce, or the mechanical obstruction caused by a piece of string, &c. In a. female, to ulceration about the meatus, or to adherent labia. Retention in the young adult, to stricture, ob- struction of the urethra from stone, gonorrhoea, perineal, anal, prostatic abscess, or rectal disease. In the aged, from enlarged prostate or atony Removal of calculus. Summary as of the bladder. Retention from fever or general nerve shocks may occur at all periods. In women, hysterical retention may also occur, as well as retention from other uterine causes. CHAPTER XXIY. AFFECTIONS ON THE GENITAL ORGANS. There is probably no part of the body which varies more in its con- formation than the penis, or one in which any congenital defect is more likely to be inherited. The elongated and contracted prepuce is