139 EXTERNAL URETHROTOMY. rally succeeds in very quickly finding it, and passes the point onwards through the stricture towards the bladder. The stricture is sometimes hidden amongst a crop of granulations or warty growths, m the midst Wheelliouse’s operation of opening urethra. of which the probe-point easily finds the true passage. This director having been passed on into the bladder (its entrance into which is clearly demonstrated by the freedom of its movements), its groove is turned downwards, the whole length of the stricture is carefully and deliberately divided on its under surface, and the passage is thus cleared. The director is still held in the same position, and the straight probe-pointed bistoury is run along the groove, to insure complete division of all bands or other obstructions. These being thoroughly cleared, the old difficulty of directing the point of a catheter through the divided stricture and onwards into the bladder is to be overcome. To effect this, the point of the probe-gorget is introduced into the groove in the director, and, guided by it, is passed onwards into the bladder, dilating the divided stricture, and forming a metallic floor, along which the point of the catheter cannot fail to pass securely into the bladder. The entry of the gorget into the latter viscus is signalised by an immediate gush of urine along it. The short catheter is now passed from the meatus down into the wound; is made to pass once or twice through the divided urethra, where it can be seen in the wound, to render certain the fact that no obstructing bands have been left undivided; and is then, guided by the probe-dilator, passed easily and certainly along the posterior part of the urethra into the bladder. The gorget is now withdrawn; the catheter fastened in the urethra, and allowed to remain for three or four days; the elastic tube convey- ing the urine away to a vessel under or by the side of the bed. After three or four days the catheter is removed, and is then passed daily, or every second or third day, according to circumstances, until the wouud in the perinseum is healed; and, after the parts have become consolidated, it requires, of course, to be passed still from time to time to prevent recontraction.”