480 EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. Probe pointing to abscess in the tibia. fibula. Remarks on the foregoing cases. When operative interferen necessary on diseased knee. it was also partially ancliylosed. Below the joint, a sinus existed leading into the head of the tibia, and through this sinus dead bone was felt. The boy's health was very bad, and it was clear that nothing but am- putatiou could be entertained. His urine was albuminous. The operation was performed on September 17th, and a good recovery ensued. On examination of the joint which was disorganized the head of the tibia was found to be perfor- ated with a channel which led from the joint to a mass of necrosed bone, and the articular facet of the tibia was likewise necrosed. The disease in the joint clearly had been secondary to the disease in the bone. The preparation is depicted in Fig. 559, and the drawing shows well the condition of the tibia. Remabks.—These three cases show well the results of articular ostitis when passing on to necrosis in the knee- joint, and fairly indicate the kind of practice that should be applied. In the first case, nature had done her utmost towards obtaining a cure, the knee of the patient having been on admission partially anchylosed; and, had it not been for the presence of the necrosed articular facets of the tibia, a complete natural recovery would have taken place. The surgeon’s duty in this case was clearly to remove from the joint what seemed to be the sole obstacle to a natural recovery, the necrosed bone, and the complete success of the treatment justified the step, for the boy ultimately had an admirable limb. In the second case, the disease was of precisely the same character, and natural processes had, also, done their utmost towards the establishment of a cure, but the presence of necrosed bone in this case, as in the former, interfered with the recovery and prevented its realisation. On the removal of the bone from outside the joint, natural processes went on without interruption towards the attain- ment of their end, and a complete recovery with anchylosis, was obtained. In the last case, the same cause, articular ostitis, and the same result, disorganization of the joint, were clearly present; but the local disease in the bone was too extensive to allow of any hope of good being derived from its removal, while the general condition of the patient was too precarious to allow of the attempt. As a con- sequence, the only operative interference that seemed justifiable was car- ried out, and the issue of the case was all that could be desired. In dis- organization of a knee-joint, therefore, the result of articular ostitis, of an abscess in the epiphysial extremity of the bone bursting into the joint, of disease in the epiphysial cartilage between the shaft and epi- physis, or, of a sequestrum in one or other of the bones entering into its formation, some operative measure is usually required; and, when the diagnosis of the case is tolerably clear, the practice ought to be decided, as delay cannot be of any use. The disease must be removed. I'm. 559. Abscess of tibia, burrowing into knee-joint with necrosis.