TUMOURS OP THE BREAST. 244 Evolution of [;lanil. Involution gland. Lowest stage of action. Intermediate stage. When stimulus is at its height. When breast is disturbed in disease. The breast, in passing from its “ resting ” or inactive state to that of full activity, undergoes during the entire period of pregnancy, a process of “evolution” which is characterised in its different stages by certain cell changes within its acini and transport of cells without; and, in the return of the gland to its quiescent condition on the sub- sidence of lactation, a process of “ involution ” in which a parallel series of changes acting in an inverse order is to be observed, the functional subsidence of the gland being spread over a shorter period of time than its gradual awakening during pregnancy. When the functional stimulus of the mamma is acting at its loivest point at the beginning of “ evolution ” or the ending of “involution,” the secretory product is a large granular yellow pig- mented cell, which cells are found within the secreting acini, in the con- nective tissue spaces outside the secreting structure, and likewise in the lymph-sinuses of the subjacent lymphatic glands, these cells being the waste products of a feeble degree of secretory activity; and, if the mammary excitation were always to act at that degree of intensity, the secretion it may be said would always be in the form of large granular pigmented cells. At the next appreciable advance in the intensity of the stimulus, the product formed in the gland may be described somewhat generally as a large granular nuclear cell, which is nothing else than the crude epi- thelium of the middle period of the breast’s unfolding, in which an imperfect secretory force resides. Coming s till nearer to the full excitation, the cellular ingredients are fewer and the mucous production much more abundant, and finally, when the stimulus is at its height, the mucous fluid has given place to a fatty fluid, and whatever cellular elements the secretion contains are the well-known colostrum cells which approach most nearly the perfect secreting cell. The periodical unfolding of the breasts, which is an obvious accompaniment of each pregnancy, is thus characterised by a progressive series of immature secretory products which necessarily run to waste. The epithelial cells are not transformed into milk till the time of delivery and during the period of suckling following; but the functional action of the breast has been at work all through the pregnancy, and has advanced in intensity just as the secreting struc- ture has advanced in its unfolding. The various stages of unfolding have corresponding secretory products, becoming less and less crude, and as there is a similar series of more rapid but exactly parallel waste products in the upfolcling, it is a legitimate inference to ascribe “ a special kind of secretory product to a certain degree of intensity of the glandular force.” When the breast gland is disturbed from its resting state by a cause other than pregnancy, and, in consequence of some morbid excitation is urged into a kind of evolution process, the steps of its unfolding are less orderly than in the normal evolution, and the' “ spurious excitation ” never carries the gland to the end of its un- folding or to the perfect degree of its function. And, although the morbid excitation may be said to correspond in its intensity to a stage i j, of the normal evolution, there is this fundamental difference, that the corresponding stage of the normal process is transient, giving place to ) ( a stronger force while the morbid process continues indefinitely at the I same enfeebled level. As a consequence, the cell that should have