397 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. bone in absolute rest; for in fractures of tbe arm, the common prac- tice of applying spints to it, and allowing perfect freedom to the action of tbe forearm, is to be condemned; because in moving the forearm the triceps and brachialis anticus with the biceps, have as powerful an action upon the humerus as upon the bones of the forearm. . . In the primary treatment of all fractures of the arm, it is. a wise and scientific practice to keep the forearm at rest, which is best done by the application of some angular splint extending from the shoulder or axilla to the wrist, associating with it a posterior or anterior short splint reaching from the shoulder to the elbow (Fig. 485). After about two or three weeks the angular splint may be removed, and some immovable one applied, the forearm being left free. Any splints that secure immobility of the broken bone after its ends have been co-apted by manipulation must be regarded as beneficial, and no splints can do this effectually that allows freedom of movement of the forearm. When two lateral splints appear the more adapted to keep the bones in position, they must be angular, to include the elbow, and bent at a right angle. The incomplete or green-stick fractures of children are well treated by millboard, gutta-percha, or felt splint, after the bone has been restored to its normal position. In putting up fractures of the arm, care should be observed not to press upon the musculo-spiral nerve as it winds round the bone, especially when the line of fracture corresponds to its position. Fractures involving the lower end of the humerus whether transverse Fractures above or vertical through the condyles, or both together; whether the lower complicated with separation of the epiphysis or some displacement of cni1- the bones of the forearm, are always difficult to diagnose and to treat; and when the joint is involved either by the fracture running into it or by displacement, there is usually some subsequent imperfection in its movement. Fractures above the condyles where the bone is thin and expanded, whether in the child or adult; or separation of the lower epiphysis (an accident of early life) are usually produced by some fall upon the elbow. When the line of fracture is oblique from behind forwards the action of the biceps and brachialis anticus has a tendency to draw the forearm with the lower fragment upward and forward. When the line of fracture is oblique from before backwards and upwards, the lower fragment of bone with the bones of the forearm is apt to be drawn backward by the action of the triceps, thereby giving rise to the external appearance of a dislocation of the bones of the forearm backwards, since there is the same projection of the olecra- non process and hollowness above it, the same projection of the lower end of the humerus forwards, with the pressing forwards of the artery in both accidents. There is, however, this great distinction between the fracture and dislocation, so well expressed by Sir A. Cooper. In fracture there is, he says, “ the removal of all marks of dislocation on extension, " P °mS and their return as soon as extension is discontinuedcrepitus of a marked kind is felt where a fracture is present, and of a suppressed kind where a displacement of the epiphysis exists; whereas in disloca- tion, no crepitus is present, and there is marked immobility of the