VAGINAL FISTULA. 231 Removal of sutures. When catheter to be dispensed with. Bowels to be locked up for two weeks. Results. Vaginal cystocele. Vesico- and recto-vagiual fistula. tied together, and flexed upon the abdomen. The urine should be drawn off every six hours for the first three or four days, and the parts kept clean. Iced milk and beef tea should be given for the first day, but meat and wine subsequently if the appetite allow. The patient may lie on one side when preferred. If the quill suture is used, the deep sutures should be removed on the third or fourth day, and the superficial on the seventh. When silk, wire, or gut sutures have been employed, they may be left for six or seven days; but after the fourth day they should be taken away when suppuration appears in their track. On withdrawing the quill sutures, great care should be observed not to separate the thighs or parts; indeed, for quite ten days or more after the operation this point should be observed. After the first week, the use of the catheter may be dispensed with, the patient making water on her hands and knees, the parts subsequently being carefully sponged. When any offensive vaginal discharge appears, the passage may be syringed with a lotion of Condy’s fluid. The bowels should be locked up for at least a week by small doses of opium twice a day, and then relieved by a dose of castor oil after some warm oil has been injected into the bowel; but, in some cases where union is thought to be feeble, it is well to keep them from acting for a longer period, care being always observed that no large indurated motion be allowed to pass, warm water and oily enemata being used. With this attention, good success generally follows, and women may have subsequent labours without any giving way of the parts. Where much prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina co-exists, a strip of mucous membrane running up the vagina from the anal end of the recto-vaginal septum may be cut off, and the edges of the wound brought together. I have done this in many cases with au excellent result; indeed, in many cases of prolapse of the uterus, following some slight rupture of the perinaeum or even without, this operation is of great value. In vaginal cystocele, a like operation is of benefit, the removal of a piece of vaginal mucous membrane at its labial border being often fol- lowed by a good result. I am tempted to think that many more of these cases of vaginal and uterine prolapse can be greatly benefited by surgical treatment than the majority of practitioners believe; and that in the future, surgical treatment will be more frequently demanded for these affections. Vesico- and Recto-vaginal Fistulse. Abnormal communications between the bladder or rectum and the vagina, are usually the result of long and tedious labour from slough- iug of the tissues after too much pressure, although at times they may be caused by the rough use of instruments, the retention of a pessary, or the presence of a stone. They are, usually, discovered a few days after the delivery, by urine, -wind, or faeces passing through the vaginal passage, these symptoms appearing on the separation of the slough. The surgeon is usually called upon to treat the case when the puer- peral month has passed and the patient’s powers been restored; till then it would be rash to think of interference. The operation for the cure of these affections is a very good one,