HiEMATURIA. 54 Urethral keemorrhage. Fallacies of Flood in urine. Treatment of lucmaturia. When hasmorrlinge into bladder. When retention present. Uretliral htemorrhage irrespective of injury may proceed from a chancre, an acute gonorrhoea, or an impacted stone. It may follow over-exertion, or the straining associated with retention of urine or sexual intercourse, It may likewise take place after the forcible bend- ing of an erect penis in a chordee, or during some sudden muscular ex- ertion from a rupture of the vas deferens, as pointed out by Hilton, and, in rare cases, it may occur without any known cause, the blood flowing from the penis unaccompanied by any symptom of disease. I have re- corded two such cases (‘ Clin. Surg.,’ Chapter 47). Urethral haemorrhage as a result of catlieterism is also common, and may be caused by the introduction of some foreign body into the urethra. It should be remembered also that bile when concentrated, indigo, or other rare constituents of the urine, from diet or otherwise, may simu- late the presence of blood, as may the black urine which results from the external or internal use of carbolic acid when absorbed in poisonous doses. This symptom, however, soon disappears on the omission of the remedy. In a case under my care in 1871, of a man who had a weak sore the size of a crown piece, which had been dressed with an oily lotion of carbolic acid one part to forty, the black urine appeared after the second dressing, associated with brain symptoms and collapse of the general powers, which I thought must prove fatal. The symptoms, however, speedily disappeared on withdrawing the drug, and a recovery ensued. In a more recent case, a boy set. 9, wTas unin- tentionally kept in a semicomatose state for two months by the appli- cation of a lotion of carbolic acid (one part to a hundred) to a small sore, the brain recovering its healthy condition on the omission of the lotion. The poisonous action of the carbolic acid was detected through the urine, which was occasionally black. Treatment.—The disease or condition that gives rise to the blood in the urine requires treatment more than the symptom itself, but at times, the bleeding is so profuse as to threaten life. Renal haemorrhage when profuse, may be checked by gallic acid in full doses, gr. v to gr. x three times a day, acetate of lead, tincture of ergot, or matico, opium beiug generally a valuable addition, and, in extreme cases the spirit of turpentine, absolute rest in the horizontal position, and cold milk diet being also adopted. Haemorrhage from the bladder, when persistent, may be checked by tbe application of a bag of ice over the pubes and to the perinaeum; by cold or astringent injections into the rectum, with rest and opium, aud there is no necessity to pass a catheter or to interfere with the clot, so long as the urine flows and retention does not occur—the urine at the natural temperature of the body being a good blood solvent. A clot of blood, when bathed with urine, as a rule so disintegrates in the course of a few days as to allow of its being passed without help. Any dis- turbance of the clot when first formed will probably rather tend to encourage than stop bleeding, consequently, no unnecessary cathe- terism should be employed. When retention exists, the symptoms become urgent, and opium administered either by the mouth or, what is preferable, by the rectum, fails to give relief, the passage of a large-sized catheter and the use of an exhausting syringe, such as Clover invented for use after lithotrity (Fig. 319a), or the aspirator may be called for; yet these measures