FRACTURED RIBS. 35 a simpler instrument. Either may be employed, as anything that How to judge helps to decide when the canula may be removed with safety is of ™ t“°cy of value. Uie glottis. CHAPTER XIX. SURGERY OF THE CHEST. Contusions. The chest is liable to be contused, and severe contusions are not un- Contusion, frequently followed by extensive effusions of blood. The swelling under these circumstances occurs suddenly after the injury, and appears with the discoloration of a bruise. These cases, as a rule, do well if left alone, the extravasated blood becoming absorbed, but, in exceptional examples, the blood may break down and give rise to suppuration. Treatment.—When the contusion is slight, the application of a cold Treatment, lead lotion is all that is necessary, and in more severe examples where extravasation is great, there is nothing equal to the application of a bag of ice. In obstinate cases, the use of some stimulating liniment hastens recovery, and the administration of tonics is always of value. When the effused blood breaks down and suppuration ensues, the abscess must be opened, but the surgeon need be in no hurry to con- clude that the effused blood is incapable of being absorbed nor that pus has formed, since it is a familiar fact that blood may remain fluid in the tissues for a long period and yet be eventually removed by absorption. Rupture of the Pectoral Muscle is an accident which may take place from a forcible strain applied Ruptured to the muscle unprepared for action or from external violence. I have muscles, seen a case in which the muscle was nearly torn across about its centre, from the forcible drawing back of the arm, in which the fingers could be inserted between the divided ends of the torn muscle, and there was much effusion of blood. In it the arm was bound to the side by a bandage and ice locally applied, and three months subsequently, some power existed in the muscle. The amount of repair which is to be expected in these cases depends upon the severity of the injury, and the care with which the parts are kept in position during its progress. As a general rule, the two ends of the divided muscle should be kept in contact for at least two months before movement is allowed. This accident is not rare in children from forcible dragging of the arm. Fractured Ribs form about a tenth part of the cases of fracture admitted into a large On fraclnrea hospital. This accident is less common in children and young adults than ribs- in subjects past middle age, on account of the elasticity of the ribs. In the aged the ribs become so brittle that they break under slight external violence, and in rare cases from the violence of a cough. I have seen this occur in two patients, the one a male and the other a female, between sixty and seventy years of age, in whom no signs of disease existed, and both are now alive.