DISEASES OF ELBOW-JOINT. 402 Diseases of _ Synovitis makes itself known by the general enlargement of the joint. 'ioint> as wel1 as b-V the sense of fluctuation on either side of the ole- cranon process. Pulpy disease is recognised by the presence of the doughy, semi-fluctuating products that have been poured out in the same position. Articular ostitis can be recognised by the expanded bones. In a general way, elbow-joint cases do well, recovery taking place with movement, in the majority, while in the minority, a natural cure takes place by anchylosis, with or without external suppuration. The amount of movement that may at times be se- cured after a natural reco- very from a suppurating joint is very good. Fig. 549 was taken from a boy, set. 19, who had had a disor- ganized joint treated by free incisions when ten years of age. In it the head of the radius was displaced outwards. He had as much movement as the drawing indicates. In many cases, useful flexion and extension are often secured as well as pronation and supination, and in some while these latter movements are preserved, the ulna and humerus are firmly fixed together, and when so, the value of the hand is but little diminished. In several of my own cases, I have found after many years the rotation of the radius perfect. Often require But as these good results which may follow a cure by natural pro- mterference. cesses cannot be calculated upon, it is doubtless a wiser course to sub- mit the majority of cases of disorganised elbow-joint to operative interference, not so much probably to remove a disease that is incurable by natural processes, as to procure movement and prevent anchylosis. Fib. 549. Drawing illustrating the amount of flexion after recovery from suppuration. Disease of the Wrist-joint Diseases of js not so common as that of the carpal bones and carpo-phalangeal wrist-joint. j0in^S) and when it has started in one of these parts is very prone to be propagated to others. When suppuration takes place, the pus often burrows freely between the tendons, but as long as necrosed bone does not exist to prevent recovery, a good result may be looked for, although probably with some amount of stiffness or even anchy- losis. When necrosed bone keeps up the irritation it should be removed. To assist recovery the hand should be secured by a splint in the position intermediate between pronation and supination, such an one being the best. When the hand is left alone it is too apt to assume the prone position—a by no means good one. Disease of the Radio-ulnar Joint Of radio- is rarely met with,. In a recent case of a middle-aged man that came ulnar. under my care, it appeared to follow over-action, and gave rise to severe local pain and general disturbance. It was followed by suppuration and relieved by a free incision on the dorsal aspect of the wrist down to the joint. The case terminated by anchylosis.