202 CHRONIC ORCHITIS. Shape of glaud. Pathology. Tubercular disease of testis. even on somewhat rough manipulation, and in these examples even, on firm pressure, the ordinary testicular sensation will fail to be excited. The general appearance also of the testicle, the subject of this affec- tion, is somewhat peculiar. It is not pyriform or globular as in hydro- cele and many other affections of the gland, but has a peculiar flattened outline from side to side, and a smooth even surface, unless the disease he associated with some effusion into the tunica vaginalis, when the tumour will naturally assume more the shape of a vaginal hy- drocele. But the simple affection is rarely associated with such a compli- cation, and when it is, the fluid, as a rule, is secreted in very small quantities. The epididymis in exceptional examples, from the exten- sion of the inflammation to its tissue may be slightly enlarged and thickened, but this never occurs to any great extent. There are, also, seldom any constitutional symptoms worthy of remark, except in cachectic and irritable patients, when the dull aching pain of the part may give rise to some general irritability of the patient’s condition, and an anxious expression of countenance. The pathology of this affection is that of chronic inflammation of any other part, and consists in a more or less general infiltration of the gland with an organisable or organised material, the inflam- matory effusion separating the secreting tubuli, and affecting them in ways determined by the amount of fibrin poured out between them and the amount of pressure to which they are subjected; the in- flammatory product in some cases being very generally diffused between the tubuli, while in others it is deposited in irregular masses. When the material poured out is very great, and equally diffused betweeu the meshes of the testis, i. e., when the disease is extensive or of long standing, that condition of the gland is probably produced which is indicated by an utter absence of the natural sensation of the organ on handling, or on firm pressure, and, under such circum- stances, there is the greatest anxiety for the subsequent maintenance of the integrity of the organ; though should the disease make a favourable progress towards recovery, and the inflammatory product be re-absorbed, the pressure will be proportionately removed from the delicate tubuli of the organ, and the natural testicular sensation be restored. If the inflammatory product soften down, as it will in the delicate and cachectic subject, suppuration will take place, and in propor- tion to its extent will be the liability to a hernia testis. Again, should this inflammatory product proceed to a more permanent organisation and contract, the delicate tubuli of the testicle will suffer in proportion to the extent of the part involved, and an atrophy of the organ be the result as a consequence. All these complications are met with in various degrees in practice, and with greater or less frequency, the general condition of the patient having a more important iuflueuce in determining the result even than the treatment; but I may add, that there are few affections which are more amenable to good treatment than that now under consideration. When the disease is remarkably insidious in its advance, slow in its progress, and painless in its character; when the patient is cachectic and irritable, with an anxious countenance, a disposition to a hot skin, and to other symptoms of constitutional irritation ; and, more