AFFECTIONS OF BURS^I MUCOSAS, GANGLION, ETC. 309 Treatment.—The local ganglion when first formed, may often be Treatment cured by the application of a blister and by rest of the tendon secured Blisters, by means of some splint, but when it has existed for some time, such treatment is useless. When it can be ruptured by pressure applied by Rupture, grasping the flexed hand with both hands and by one thumb superposed upon the other over the ganglion, a cure may often be effected; firm pressure being subsequently kept up by means of a pad of lint and strapping. When this fails, the ganglion should be punctured Puncture, subcutaneously by means of a spear-shaped needle or fine tenotomy knife, its contents squeezed out, and pressure applied by lint and strapping as before. When success does not follow this treatment, a silk seton may be introduced, the hand being kept quiet on a splint, seton. but it should be removed so soon as suppuration has been estab- lished. This treatment should not be employed, however, until all minor means have failed, for it is occasionally followed by diffused in- flammation of the theca of the tendon with all its dangers. The diffused or compound ganglion is dangerous to deal with; that oftlie is, any interference with it may be followed by severe inflammation diffused of all the thecae involved, and thus limb and life be jeopardised. But form‘ this result is not common when proper precautions are taken to guard against it. The risk of such a thing should always, however, be laid before the patient by the surgeon before any operation is ar- ranged. The only effectual way of dealing with it is hy incision. To do incision, this, the surgeon should for some five or six days before fix the hand and forearm upon a splint; he should then make a clean cut into the affected theca, free enough to allow of the ready escape of all the gan- glion contents without any forcible manipulation. When many tliecro are involved, more than one incision is called for. The incision should always be made in a vertical directions over the tendons, and both above and below the annular ligament when the disease extends up the arm. After the operation, the wound should be dressed with water dressing and the splint kept on, movement of the finger being allowed after the lapse of a few days, when the fear of diffused suppurative inflammation has passed away. In the severe example of the affection illustrated in Fig. 418, this practice was adopted with success, and in several others of a less severe character, I could record the same result. I have never had occasion to divide the annular ligament.