DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 351 leverage of the lower extremity, the accident would probably be a rarity. In exceptional instances, however, the bone is displaced with the slightest force. I have had a young man under my care whose femur had been dislocated a dozen times or more, the smallest twist in the limb causing its dislocation backwards. Congenital dislocations and displacements from disease are not in- cluded in this group. Dislocations from accident are of various forms, but. the division varieties of made by Sir A. Cooper is, doubtless, practically the best, if we remem- dislocation of klD. Fig. 453. Fig. 453a. Fig. 453.—Recent case of dorsal disloca- Fig. 453a.—Rent in capsule, with tion. femur flexed. From Mr. Morris’s paper. ber that varieties of each form or partial dislocations, are met with in practice; since there is good reason to believe that the head of the thigh-bone may rest at any point round its socket. 1. Dislocation upwards and backioards, on the dorsum ilii is the most common. 2. Dislocation backwards, towards the ischiatic or sciatic notch—a variety of the latter—stands third on the list as to frequency. 3. Dislocation downwards and inwards, into the foramen ovale stands second. 4. Dislocation upwards and forwards, upon the pubes, is about equal in frequency to that towards the sciatic notch. These several forms of dislocation depend much upon the degree How formed, of flexion or extension, and of inward or outward rotation of the thigh at the time of luxation. The head of the femur under most if not all circumstances, as demonstrated by Mr. Henry Morris in an able paper (‘ Med. Chir. Trans.,’ 1877), leaves the acetabulum, when the •» lower extremity is aiducted, through a rent in the capsular ligament where it is the thinnest, viz. at the inner and lower side of the joint (Fig. 453a), the strong ilio and ischio-femoral ligaments situated on the anterior, outer and posterior aspects of the joint and the shape of the acetabulum preventing displacement in any other position. With the limb abducted, however, the head of the femur is more than half out of the acetabulum, the ligamentum teres is quite loose and all the strong portion of the capsule is relaxed. Indeed Mr. Morris believes, that it is only in adduction of the lower extremity that a simple dislocation of the ead of the femur can possibly occur, and that a dislocation on to the