STONE IN THE BLADDER. 91 tion; and when it passes with the urinary stream this symptom will disappear. When the calculus rests in the bladder and increases, it usually gives Symptoms, rise to more characteristic symptoms which differ widely in different subjects, and apparently have little to do with the nature of the stone. In some, indeed, in the majority of cases, the symptoms are so Slight, slight as to be disregarded, whilst in the larger number the symptoms have frequently existed for many months if not for years before advice is sought. Indifference or carelessness may occasionally be the cause May be of this delay, but as a rule, it is due to the uncertainty of the symptoms °vei'l0°ked. and the comparatively little inconvenience the patient suffers. It is a rare thing, however, for a parent to seek professional advice for a child suffering with stone until hcematuria has been observed, some prolapse Hteraaturia. of the rectum taken place, or the pain which the child experiences Pain after after micturition become pronounced; although in such a case, it micturition, will generally, upon inquiry, be learnt that the child for many months Interrupted had been observed to play with or drag the penis after micturition, that 0 l*rine the stream of urine had occasionally been interrupted in its flow, and jegireTo pas that a frequent call to make water had long existed. water. These symptoms, therefore, with tolerable accuracy denote the presence of a calculus, though its existence can only be affirmed posi- tively on its absolute detection by a sound. Yet nearly all the symptoms which have been enumerated can be produced by other and less important conditions, and more particularly by an elongated and adherent prepuce. Retention of urine in an otherwise healthy child is almost always Retention of caused by the impaction of a stone, and when incontinence exists, it urme' frequently indicates the presence of a calculus which has been forming ^“c^''.i|lleuce for a lengthened period, and which is often connected with renal as ° unne well as vesical changes of an organic character. In adult life, indifference to early symptoms is not common, and a frequent desire to pass water when persistent will soon induce a man to seek advice; and as this may be the only symptom of stone, it should neither be disregarded nor lightly treated. Indeed, with such a symptom, a sound should at once be passed, this being the readiest and best means of proving whether a stone be the cause or not. The symptoms that indicate the presence of a calculus will be found to vary, from the slightest irritation of the bladder to the severest agony, and those which have been described will be present in different degrees of severity or in different combinations. The importance, however, of an early detec- tion of a calculus is so great, that in every case of persistently irritable bladder which is not clearly the product of some other affection, it is detection of better to suspect the existence of a stone and examine with a sound stone than run the slightest risk of overlooking it, and consequently of imPortant- increasing the dangers (which are always great) of exciting or keeping F . . . up organic disease in the bladder and kidney. It is to be remembered £^““3 that the presence of a calculus is chiefly dangerous to life from the organic renal changes it is liable to excite; and that neither the operation of lithotrity nor lithotomy is commonly fatal if such changes have not taken place. The early detection of a stone becomes, therefore, neces- Confirmed sarily a point of the highest importance. symptoms of The confirmed symptoms of vesical calculus in the adult are, pain ad^t/’1