CARIES OF THE BONES. 519 a thin, sanguineous, fetid, semi-purulent fluid, which contains frag- ments and elements of bone; abscesses which generally communicate externally through the soft parts often co-exist in and about the bone, and are occasionally combined with necrosis. In the spine, where it is Characters the more commonly met with, it is often unassociated with any ““g p.™|ress external suppuration or discharge, though the bone with the inter- vertebral substance softens down and undergoes extensive molecular death; much loss of bone taking place, the particles being appa- rently reabsorbed and carried away, and complete recovery follow- ing without any external discharge. Around the inflamed or carious bone the cancellous tissue is generally infiltrated with more or less organizable inflammatory lymph, the character of which depends much upon the character of the inflammation. In feeble and strumous sub- jects, the fluid will be of a serous, oily, and non-plastic kind (‘ Black on Tuberculous Bone/ Edin., 1859), the cancellous bone becoming more cellular and lighter. In more healthy types, the effusion will be plastic and organizable, the bone becoming more compact. In one case no consolidation of the surrounding bone will be present, while in another, condensation of the bone to a greater or less extent will be found. Under all circumstances the nature of the inflammatory action turns much upon the constitutional power of the patient; the disease tending in strumous and feeble subjects to widen but not to repair, while in more healthy subjects it inclines to a local action and recovery. In rare examples, genuine tubercle may co-exist with the inflam- mation. Treatment.—Looking upon caries as an inflammatory affection and Treatment of consequently as curable, it is to be treated on somewhat similar prin- caries, ciples to inflammation of other parts. When the general powers of the patient are feeble, they ought to be stimulated by tonic medicine and regimen; local pain to be soothed and torpid action stimulated, but all mechanical and surgical interference should be avoided, except for the removal of dead bone. In superficial or periosteal caries In superficial or ulceration, when rest, elevation, soothing or possibly stimulating caries, applications with tonics fail to induce a healthy reparative action, local stimulants are sometimes of use, and the application of such mineral acids as the nitric or sulphuric, strong or diluted, has often a beneficial action. Pollock speaks highly of the value of sulphuric acid, at first Pollock’s diluted with equal parts of water and subsequently pure, the acid de- Plau> stroyiug the diseased bone to which it is applied, and setting up a more healthy action in the parts beneath, thus hastening recovery. Boinet advocates the use of iodine, at first diluted and then strong; others recommend phosphoric acid. Dr. Fitzpatrick applies the Vienna paste or potassa cum calce to the surface of the inflamed bone, as well as to its deeper parts after puncturing them. The actual or galvanic cautery has also been employed, and in superficial caries seems to be valuable. In deep-seated or endosteal caries, some speak highly of In deep' operative interference, either by the gouging out of the diseased tissue endosteal or excision of the inflamed or carious bone; but I allude to this treat- caries, ment only to condemn it, since I believe it to be both unnecessary and Surgical injurious. It is unnecessary, as in the majority of cases recovery can interference be secured without it; it is injurious, since gouging, as a rule, adds to lit cess ary.