DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. 58 tion, and tlie operation need not be classed amongst the unjustifiable operations. The reader may refer to an interesting paper on this subject in the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.’ for 1869, by Mr. Thomas Smith, and also to the ‘American Journal of Med. Science,’ January, 1873, and July, 1874. CHAPTER XXI. DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. Irritable Bladder. 1 i i k C it On irritable bladder. Causes. Long and adherent prepuce in child. Calculus bladder. Almost every disease of the urinary organs manifests its presence by some bladder symptom, and that symptom is usually what is called an irritable bladder, that is, the patient passes urine more frequently than natural, with or without pain. Such a symptom may indicate some slight deviation from the healthy relations that ought normally to exist between the bladder and its con- tents; or the presence of a severe if not fatal organic disease. It may be a result of some irritation of the glans penis associated with retained sub-preputial secretion, or an adhesion between the glans and prepuce; or, it may be due to a serious cerebral or spinal affection. It may indicate kidney, bladder, prostatic, or urethral disease, and, in many instances, it is the one symptom that has induced the patient to seek advice. The “ irritable bladder,” therefore, though only a symptom, is clinically an important one, and demands elucidation at the com- mencement of a chapter on bladder affections. Irritability of bladder in children.—When this symptom is well marked in a male child, the condition of the penis should first receive attention; since, if the prepuce be long or adherent to the glans penis,. and the secretion from Tyson’s glands from want of cleanliness, have accumulated and become indurated, there will be strong reason to be- lieve, that the irritability of bladder is the direct product of these • apparently simple causes, for any of these conditions of the penis i are sufficient to produce every degree of bladder irritation, and a cure • can only be obtained by their removal. To secure this end, all retained 1 secretion should be taken away, adhesions between the glans penis • and prepuce carefully separated, and, if the prepuce be long, circum- cision performed. If, however, on a careful examination no such conditions are to be observed, the state of the bladder should be inquired into, and for this purpose a sound passed (an instrument with i a bulbous extremity being preferred) (Fig. 343), and, if a stone be detected, the cause of the symptom will be clearly explained, as well as the practice to be followed. It must be remarked, also, that if a calculus be the cause, a careful inquiry will probably detect the presence of other symptoms such as pain after micturition, haematuria, and an oc- casional interruption to the flow of urine—the intermitting urinal flow being very characteristic of the presence of a stone, although all these symptoms may be present in irritable bladder from an adherent pre-