123 STONE IN THE BLADDER. to those in the male, such as irritability of bladder, pain during and after the act of micturition, intermittent flow of urine, and hsematuria, a bearing-down pain and incontinence of urine being common accom- paniments. In the female sex, uterine and vesical symptoms are so closely associated, that surgeons cannot be too much aware of the fact, since cases of stone in the bladder are frequently passed over as examples of uterine disease, when a vaginal examination would reveal the true state of affairs; a calculus can often be felt by the finger through the the vesico-vaginal septum, but where doubt exists, the sound will settle the point. The treatment of stone in women is far less complicated than in Treatment, men, on account of the anatomical formation of the parts, and the majority of calculi can be readily removed either by urethral dilatation and extraction or by lithotrity. The method by urethral dilatation is based on the natural one of By urethral expulsion, and is applicable in all cases of small calculi. In children, a stone three quarters of an inch in diameter, and in adults one inch, with the patient under the influence of chloroform may be fear- lessly removed from the bladder by rapid urethral dilatation and ex- traction. Indeed, 1 have removed calculi two inches in diameter by this means, without any injurious after-effect, but it is probably wise, not to make the attempt, the surgeon possessing in lithotrity an efficient aid or substitute. Slow dilatation of the urethra is almost certain to be followed by Rapid incontinence, while after rapid proceedings, it is rare to meet with this dilatation result. preferred. The operation may be performed as follows:—With the patient on Mode of her back under the influence of chloroform, Weiss’s three-pronged performance, dilator should be introduced and rapidly expanded sufficiently far to admit first the left index-finger of the operator, and then the forceps, when the stone, having been seized, can be rapidly removed. I have on several occasions employed the lithotrite for this purpose with the view of crushing the stone should any difficulties be experienced in its extraction, and therefore recommend the practice. On four occa- sions I have not dilated the urethra at all, but passed the lithotrite or forceps and extracted at once, and consider this plan is as good as any other, for every surgeon must be struck with the facility with which a finger or any moderate instrument can be introduced into the female bladder when the subject is under the influence of an anaesthetic. If any difficulty is felt in the extraction of the stone, or it prove larger than can be safely removed as a whole, it may be broken up and removed piecemeal. By these means I took away at one operation without any difficulty or bad result from a child only four years old, a calculus an inch and a half in diameter, and in the year 1869, I successfully removed with facility three calculi from three patients by these means. In female subjects there can be no such hesitation as to the wisdom of removing fragments after the crushing operation as there is in males. When the stone is too large for removal by rapid dilatation, or the bladder too contracted, inflamed, and ulcerated to allow of lithotrity, the very'iar°e'e stone should be removed per vaginam, the surgeon in this operation p again imitating a method sometimes resorted to by nature. To do this, ^';moval pcr