155 RETENTION OF URINE. other symptom of vesical calculus, even lisematuria, prolapsus recti, or Vanetyof constant priapism. _ caused by All, or nearly all these cases take place in early life, and 1 never adherent see a case of vesical irritation in a male child without first examining prepuce, the condition of the penis. I have been in the habit of pointing out this fact to students for some years, and have advised them to follow the practice suggested under the conviction, that in at least two thirds of the cases suffering from urinary irritation which pass under observa- tion, an adherent and elongated prepuce is the sole cause. Circum- Treatment, cision and the careful separation of the prepuce from the glans penis, with the removal of the confined secretion of Tyson’s glands, is the only remedy, which is at once simple and complete. Retention of urine as a symptom of ruptured urethra has already received attention in another page. On Retention of Urine from Organic or Cicatricial Stricture. Among the many contingencies to which a patient suffering from Retention organic stricture is continually exposed, none cause more agony and du® t0 alarm, or demand more prompt and decisive action on the part of the stricture, surgeon, than retention of urine. The retention may be the result of a slowly contracting organic stricture; but it will probably be produced by some sudden accession of spasm of the muscles of the passage, and thus be compound in its nature, a spasmodic being grafted upon an organic stricture. The symptoms, however, are necessarily urgent, and it becomes an im- portant question as to what practice should be pursued. With this object, it will he of interest to inquire, first of all, what practice has been proved of value ? and, as a means to the solution of the difficulty Treatment. I can show, that out of 129 consecutive examples of retention from simple organic stricture, 109 were successfully treated by means of catheterism, warm baths, and opium. In 20 cases only, or 15-8 per cent., were any other operative measures called into requisition, and in all of these 20 examples, the bladder was punctured per rectum with complete success. Out of 8 cases also of retention of urine produced by the gradual In traumatic contraction of a traumatic stricture, 5 were treated by means of cathe- stricture, terism, and 3 by puncture of the bladder. The proportion of cases requiring such an operation, being much greater in traumatic stric- tures than in the preceding class of simple organic stricture; the cause of this difference being very apparent. If a surgeon is called to a patient suffering from retention of urine produced by either a simple spasmodic or an inflammatory stricture, it has already been explained that relief can be obtained by the cautious introduction of a catheter, aided, if required, by the use of the warm r H t bath or a full dose of opium, and, in certain cases, by the inhalation of tlietensm- chloroform. If these means fail, as experience proves mav be the case either from some peculiarity of the stricture, or the manner in which the treatment has been carried out, other measures will necessarily be called into requisition; and it has been already stated, that the best and most expeditious practice is to puncture the bladder through the rectum. Puncture per It is true that this practice is rarely needed in simple spasmodic or in rectum, inflammatory stricture, for the means already suggested are, in the majority of cases, amply sufficient to secure relief; nevertheless in