235 VAGINAL FISTULA. and generally successful, failure following only in exceptional instances, that is, when the subjects are feeble, with small reparative power, or when the loss of tissues is too great to be made up. Recto-vaginal fistulae are more readily cured than vesico-vaginal, but both operations are alike in principle. Operation.—Without going into its history, full details of which can Operation for be found in the special works on the surgical diseases of women, it may ^^va='"ul be said, that it is to Sims and Bozeman, in America, and to Simpson and Brown, in this country, that the modern operation has been brought to its present state of perfection, although it is probably due to the introduction of chloroform that its great success is to be attri- buted. Very small fistulae may probably be cured by the actual or galvanic cautery, but every opening above the size of a crow-quill demands some plastic operation. In the operation, the surgeon has three main points to observe:— Objects in 1st. To bring the fistula well into view and under control; 2nd, to view, pare with nicety and accuracy its whole margin; and 3rd, to bring into and maintain in apposition, the raw and incised surfaces. For the first object the duck-bill speculum is undoubtedly the best; i. Speculum, by some authors it is spoken of as Bozeman’s, by others as Sims’. It is both a dilator of the vagina and a retractor. Some surgeons, Jobert being amongst them, talk of exposing the fistula by dragging the uterus externally, and thus everting the vagina. I have never had the boldness to use sufficient force to do this, and cannot advise it. Such a measure would, however, greatly facilitate the different steps of the operation. Weiss has recently so arranged the duck-bill speculum as to be self- supporting (Fig. 391). I have used the instrument and have been much struck with its value. For recto-vaginal fistula the patient should be placed on her hack, as Operation for in lithotomy, and for vesico-vaginal fistula this position is at times the recto-vaginal most convenient; though I usually prefer the semi-prone position, the fistula’ Fig. 390. Position of patient for vesico-vaginal fistula.