ON FBACTUKES. 377 deformity in a limb mistaken for one caused by an accident, and attempts have been made to restore, or rather to reduce it to its sup- jn Prognosis in posed normal condition. , Prognosis.—Simple fractures, as a rule, do well. At Guy s, ... gjm-le six years, out of 469 cases of simple fracture of the thigh, 17 died, fracture, or 3'5 per cent.; of 888 examples of simple fracture of the leg, 8 died, or not 1 per cent.; of 123 cases of fractured patella there was no death. The same statistics inform us that one tenth of all cases of fracture of the thigh are compound, and as are also one fifth of all fractures of the leg. Compound fractures are always serious accidents, those of the upper In extremity being less fatal than those of the leg, and these less so than compound, those of the femur. Thus, at Guy’s, in six years, out of 94 cases of compound fractures of the arm and forearm, 16 or 17 per cent, died, or 1 in 6 cases; out of 202 cases of compound fracture of the leg, 56 or 27-7 per cent, died, or 1 in 4 cases; and out of 52 cases of com- pound fracture of the thigh, 19 or 365 per cent, died, or 1 in 3—the mortality increasing by 10 per cent, in each group. These statistics however, hut roughly indicate the risks of the different accidents, as they include smashes of limbs with the compound fractures. As a cause of death after fracture of the long hones, Professor Fat Czorny, of Freiburg, has proved in an able paper (‘ Berliner Klinische embolism. Wochenschrift,’ Nos. 44 and 45), that “fat embolism” is to he taken into account; the fluid fat of the bones being taken up by the veins and carried to the central organs—brain, lungs, and kidneys, &c—and thus causing death. This result, he states, is a common cause of death when a bone is much fissured and the cancellous tissue laid open as in the V-shaped fracture of the tibia, and more particularly when this is compound. He does not inform us how this accident can he avoided. Teeatment.— The principles of the treatment of fractures are very Treatment, simple, though the practice is often very difficult. To restore a hone to its normal position, and to keep it there by means of surgical appli- ances, or as John Hunter expressed it in 1787, “to place the parts in a proper position by art, that is, as near their natural position as possible and keep them so” are simple rules to he observed, hut to carry them out often demands the highest surgical skill and ingenuity; principles, and yet the whole treatment of fractures is really comprised in these two indications. In examining a fracture, the greatest care is requisite, and only suffi- Points to be cient manipulation should be allowed to ascertain the seat of the fracture, learnt by an the line of its direction, and the tendency a fragment may have to ride exaniInati°®- in any direction—this special tendency being the one point to be remembered in the treatment. These points, moreover, should he made out at the single examination prior to treatment; for repeated exami- nations whether by the responsible surgeon or his assistants are to he condemned, as they can only do mischief by exciting more local irritation than is necessary, and adding to the injury which the mus- cles and soft parts have already sustained. For this reason, when after an accident, a fracture is suspected to have taken place, the surgeon or bystanders should do no more than bind the limb to some immove- time of able apparatus such as a wisp of straw, a bundle of sticks, or two mjury- pieces of wood fixed by a handkerchief, till the sufferer has been