ANESTHETICS. 562 Stages of anaesthesia. How anaesthetics destroy life. Cause of cessation of heart’B action prior to arrest of respiration. Respiration usually ceases first. Ether. Advantages and disad- vantages. Guides to complete anaesthesia. Post-mortem observations. the nerve centres, cerebral and spinal. To this end a patient passes through,first, a stage of cerebral excitement; next, cerebral insensi- bility and loss of sensation; thirdly, loss of voluntary motion; and, lastly, of reflex action, the brain losing its power before the spinal cord; absolute paralysis and anaesthesia existing only when both nerve centres are completely under the influence of the inhaled drug, the nerve supply of the respiratory and circulatory systems alone ex- cepted. Indeed, it is upon this fact that the practical value of all anaesthetics is based, the surgeon aiming at producing paralysis of the muscles of the trunk and extremities only, and not those of the respi- ratory or circulatory systems. In a general way, there is a wide interval between the two stages; in exceptional instances this interval is abridged; in such the heavt and respiratory system suddenly become affected, and it is under these circumstances that sudden death takes place. Chloroform, like many other drugs, does not act alike in all in- dividuals, some being very susceptible to its influence whilst others are the reverse. Like all anaesthetics, it increases at first the force of the heart’s action, although this effect is slight and transient, the heart acting with less than its natural force when complete anaesthesia is produced. When a patient is brought quickly under the influence of an anaesthetic the heart’s action may be suddenly arrested, Brown- Sequard believing that under such circumstances “ it is by the reflex influence due to the sudden irritation of the branches of the par vagura in the lungs that chloroform has killed in the very rare cases in which the heart’s action had been stopped before the respiration.” (‘ Lect. on Phys. of Nerv. System.’) Moderate doses of chloroform tend to weaken the heart’s action after their first stimulating effects have passed away, the respiratory act usually ceasing before the circulatory when death is the result. Thus danger increases with the degree of stupor produced. Ether is said not to depress the action of the heart to the same extent as choloroform. Of late it has grown rapidly into favour, and it is said by its advocates to be more safe than any other anaesthetic.. It should be given with sufficient freedom to bring the patient under its influence before the blood becomes saturated. When the upper eyelid can be raised without muscular resistance: and no muscular contraction is caused by touching the cornea, the patient is, as a rule, sufficiently under the influence of the anaesthetic, for surgical purposes. Respiration generally, but not invariably ceases before the action of the heart, and death may be due either to the failure of the heart’s- action or to that of the respiratory function. After death, all the cavities of the heart are distended; the cases in which the left side is empty being only exceptional. Chloroform is more commonly fatal in the struggling stage than in any other. Billroth asserts “ that during the stage of excitement violent mus- cular efforts may give rise to apoplexy, especially in individuals with disease of the heart, rigid arteries, or emphysema. Of most consequence in this stage, however, are the contractions of the muscles of masti- cation and the posterior muscles of the tongue. By means of the stylo-glossi and the glosso-pharyngei the tongue is drawn spasmodically backwards, pressing the epiglottis down so as to close mecnanically the . S. s