ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. 544 Hemorrhage. Primary. Obliteration of artery from contusion. Secondary. whose wounds are slight in proportion, are quite overcome, and require to be carried.” “ As a general rule, however, the graver the injury, the greater and more persistent is the amount of ‘ shock.’ A rifle bullet which splits up a long bone into many longitudinal fragments inflicts a very much more serious injury than the ordinary fracture effected by the ball from a smooth-bore musket, and the constitutional shock bears like pro- portion. When a portion of one or both of the lower extremities is carried away by a cannon ball, the higher towards the trunk the injury is inflicted the greater the shock, independent of the loss of blood. When a ball has entered the body, though its course be not otherwise indicated, the continuance of shock is a sufficient evidence that some organ essential to life has been implicated in the injury.”—Lonq- more. Haemorrhage.—The amount of haemorrhage attending a gunshot wound varies according to the size and situation of the wounded vessels. When large vessels are involved, death is rapid, and such cases do not come under the notice of the army surgeon. In the cases that come into the surgeon’s hands in a general way there has been an attack of haemorrhage directly after the injury, but little more; possibly some oozing, but rarely much, may exist. When a limb is shot off, there is rarely more bleeding than when it has been torn off by machinery as seen in civil life. Large vessels, when torn or twisted, seldom bleed. In these cases the plugged pulsating extremity of the lacerated artery will generally be found projecting from the wound. In the wounds caused by rifle-balls, vessels escape in a marvellous manner, the great resiliency of large vessels and the freedom with which they slip away under pressure from their loose cellular connections, allowing a ball to pass along or across their course without wounding them. At times the vessel may be so contused as to become obstructed and obliterated (vide Prep, at Netley). Nevertheless, a rifle-hall occa- sionally may directly divide a large artery and cause instantaneous death. In the American war, among the cases of primary gunshot lesions of the arteries that came under treatment, it was found that in most, only a portion of the calibre of the vessel had been carried away, and that retraction had thus been prevented. Secondary haemorrhage is common in gunshot wounds, and is due probably, as a rule, to the reopening of a wound in a vessel tem- porarily closed, or to the sloughing of some part of its walls that had been injured. In the former case, the new tissue that had stopped for a time the flow of blood, gives way under some sudden movement or local mechanical force such as some foreign body in the wound; or breaks down during the suppurative or sloughing process. In the latter, the injured coats of the artery are castoff, having been destroyed by some contusion or other violence. In either case the thrombus or clot in tbe vessel is not sufficiently well formed or organized to resist the force of the blood current from behind. When such a clot organizes, there will, of course, be no bleeding. “The great frequency of secondary haemorrhage has for its chief causes the absence or faultiness of sanitary conditions, and the debility of the patient, due to privation of nourishing food, and to exposure. The means calculated to remove or anticipate such evils will, if