274 ON OVARIOTOMY. Ovariotomy not to be performed recklessly. Circum- stances favourable for the operation. Electrolysis. On ovariotomy. Preparatory treatment. is such as to satisfy the surgeon that some local source of irritation exists. I have hitherto briefly explained when the operation is not to be undertaken, and shown when it may perhaps be justifiable in extreme cases, but the surgeon should watch himself carefully in such despe- rate cases, and not be led to undertake it without much anxious thought and earnest consideration, since operations undertaken with no reasonable prospect of success are plainly unjustifiable, unscientific, and inhumane—they degrade the surgeon and injure the profession. The public derives no benefit from the experiment, and the character of operative surgery necessarily suffers. It is well, therefore, to hear in mind the sarcasm of Cruveilhier, that “ even success does not always justify rash enterprises.” To return to our original point, let us inquire into the circum- stances under which the operation of ovariotomy should be per- formed in the majority of cases, and, after what has been written the answer to this question can hardly be regarded as difficult. For, if the reasons already given for the rejection of the operation are to be regarded as correct, it is tolerably clear, that it is to be thought of only when the tumour has, by its size, become so cumbersome as to interfere with the comfort and curtail the power of the patient to perform the duties and enjoy the pleasures of her ordinary existence ; when the general health has become affected, and the local effects of the disease are distressing; under these circumstances, and these alone, the question of operation is to be considered, and, if per- missible, to be undertaken. Electrolysis.—If recent experience, however, is to be trusted, there is good reason to believe that the treatment by electrolysis is of value, for instances of its success have been published by Dr. Fieber, of Vienna, and Dr. Semeleder (‘New York Med. Journ./ June, 1876). A weak voltaic current was used by both doctors, and the needle attached to the positive pole was introduced into the tumour, whilst the other pole was applied to the skin with a sponge or metallic electrode. This treatment was employed daily from five to ten minutes, and cures were effected by from five to twelve weeks of treatment. On the Operation of Ovariotomy. Before proceeding to consider the operation of ovariotomy, it may be well to inquire into the necessity of adopting any special treatment in the preliminary preparation of a patient who is to pass through such au ordeal; as some authors have led us to believe, that in this point of practice, there is some special power, and that success or non-success in the ultimate result of this operation may be determined by the care with which the preliminary treatment has been carried out. For my own part, I confess that I have failed to recognise the necessity of adopting any such line of practice. The principles by which we should be guided in the preliminary treat- ment of a patient about to undergo the operation of ovariotomy, need not differ in any way from those which experience has taught us to be called for, previous to any other capital operation. We should do our best to raise the standard of health by all those general hygienic and other influences which are well known to act beneficially, such as good