62 DISEASES OP THE BLADDER. When ulceration exists. Treatment of cystitis. Treatment m chronic forms. Washing out bladder. In other cases of chronic disease (catarrhal cystitis), the urine will he mixed with greyish, viscid, ropy mucus, or muco-purulent fluid, which so sticks to the bottom of the chamber vessel and together as to fall like a glutinous mass when turned out. The urine will probably, in chronic cases, be alkaline or ammoniacal; in subacute, acid; in neglected cases, the discharge of mucus becomes enormous, and phos- phate of lime often becomes mixed with the mucus and forms stone. When ulceration of the bladder is present all the symptoms are ag- gravated and the local pain severe. Bleeding is a common accom- paniment, the blood being either mixed with the contents of the bladder and passed as dark-coloured urine, or as clot3 of blood. In the cystitis of gonorrhoea, it is probable that the mucous membrane about the neck of the bladder is alone affected; in the more chronic cases of disease, the whole surface and submucous tissue is involved. Treatment.—Whatever may be the local cause of the cystitis, the local symptoms require attention, although in order to a cure the removal of the cause is most essential. Rest in the horizontal posture, hot fomentations or the hot bath, simple diluents such as barley water, linseed tea, milk and water, with alkalies as the citrate of potash in scruple doses, or the bicarbonate of potash in ten-grain doses, three times a day, and, above all, sedatives, are most essential. Of the sedatives, hyoscyamus is the best in half- drachm or drachm doses of the tincture every two or three hours, and where this is not enough, opium may be substituted; but where the kidneys are diseased, opium should always be given with great caution. The morphia suppository is an excellent remedy, or an enema of starch with opium. The bowels should be relieved by enemata in preference to purgatives, although, when severe constipation is present, a good mercurial purge is often of value j leeches to the perinseum are some- times serviceable. When retention of urine complicates the case, catheterism is called for and an elastic catheter should be used with the utmost gentleuess. In chronic cases the infusions of buchu, uva ursi, pareira, or senega, are excellent remedies, the tincture of cubebs or copaiba at times acts also beneficially ; the triticum repeus, as introduced hy Sir H. Thompson in the form of a decoction, two ounces to the pint, is also a valuable drug. When gout is the assignable cause, colchicum sometimes acts as a charm, and in some cases of gonorrhoeal cystitis, the same good effect is often experienced. The best way is to give it with five-grain doses of the carbonate of lithia. When stone is the cause, it should be removed; when stricture coexists it must be dilated; when enlarged prostate or atony of the bladder in the aged is the cause of the cystitis it is essential to keep the bladder empty and prevent any residual urine from remaining to decompose, and so add to the irritation; for this pur- pose the catheter should be introduced daily, and in severe cases the blad- der should be washed out, either by a stream of tepid water or medicated solution. Ten minims of diluted nitric acid to five ounces of water in the best form, or the same quantity of the tincture of iron. Mr. R. White, of Dublin, speaks highly of borax gr. iv to eight ounces of water, and T. W. Nunn of a solution of two grains of quinine in 2J ounces of water with a drop of diluted sulphuric acid. When the urine is fetid, Condy’s fluid or a few drops of tincture of iodine, carbolic acid, or of one part of thymol dissolved in seven of glycerine may be added to the water.