ANAESTHETICS. 569 tion watch in hand ; and I trust there are few, if any, surgeons who at the present day sacrifice safety and certainty in their operations for expedition and display. The use of anaesthetics has rendered the practice of surgery safer, surer, and more scientific. It has removed difficulties from the practice of our art which before were insurmountable, and has rendered possible innumerable things that could not in former times have been entertained.” Local anaethesia may be brought about by freezing a part, as sug- Local gested by Ur. J. Arnott, or by means of the rapid evaporisation of pure anaesthesia, anhydrous ether, as practised by Dr. B. W. Richardson. Both are valuable means of diminishing pain where anaesthesia by inhalation is forbidden or inapplicable. Aruott’s plan is carried out by mixing Arnott’s up finely pounded ice in a gauze net or thin translucent india- method, rubber bag, with half its bulk of powdered salt, the net being placed over the part to be benumbed. If well applied, it renders the skin at once pale and bloodless, and if continued, of a tallowy death-like aspect; when too long applied it may produce frost-bite or chilblain. Dr. Richardson’s ether spray is a more elegant, as it is a more Richardson’s, effectual, mode of applying local anaesthesia than ice. It is worked by his well-known apparatus, consisting of a tube with india-rubber ball and second spring ball to make the current continuous, the air being pumped in through this tube into a bottle containing anhydrous ether of a sp. gr. 0‘723 and of a boiling-point of 96° Fahr. Through the stoppered neck of this bottle a glass tube is passed, which reaches at one end nearly to the bottom of the bottle, and at the other, is fitted with a point, with one or more perforations through which the ether is forced in a fine spray, this spray being directed upon the part to be benumbed (Fig. 608). Fig. 608. Dr. Richardson’s apparatus. For opening abscesses, taking out small tumours, the removal of Where external piles, and other miuor operations, this local anaesthesia is of applicable, great value; but in graver surgical acts, it is inapplicable, as it only affects the surface and is but skin-deep in its influence.