CARDEN’S AMPUTATION. 589 account of the principle of practice it embodies, that of making skin flaps and the circular division of the muscles. The practice, however, was not new, for when Mr. Carden began it in 1846, Mr. Syme had published in the ‘ Edin. Month. Journ. of Med. Science ’ ot the same year, his modification of the circular method of amputation in the lower third of the thigh, by making two semilunar skin lateral flaps and oblique section of the muscles down to the bone, dissecting the skin flaps an inch or more upwards, and cutting the muscles on a level with the retracted skin. Liston also, in 1839, preferred skin flaps alone in muscular subjects. Accepting it as an operation for the removal of a limb through the condyles of the femur, I have, however, found it advisable to make a slightly longer posterior flap than Carden advises (vide fig. 615), making it only of skin, and taking care to make the long anterior its flap broad, with a base corresponding to the posterior border of the advantages. lateral surfaces of the condyles. In this operation, there is but a slight section of the muscular tissue, and beyond the popliteal artery, few vessels of importance are divided. The stump that remains is likewise remarkably good, being long and broad upon which patients can bear their weight without pain. This operation is, I believe, applicable to a far larger number of cases than is generally thought, and, with Lister, I look upon it as a great ad- object of vance in surgery. It is, moreover, far safer than amputation through long the shaft of the femur. skinflaps. The object sought in all these long anterior flap operations is to procure a cicatrix that is placed behind the stump out of harm’s way, and so long as this end can be secured without sacrificing more of the body than is absolutely required by the exigencies of the case the amputation is good; and it is a matter of small importance whether the rectangular and muscular flaps of Teale, the convex skin flaps of Carden, or the skin and muscle as practised by Spence, be employed. I prefer Carden’s flap with the modifications described to any other, General and, when applied to the knee, where it is most applicable, regard it applicability with high favour. dhmHo'311 This “ mixed method of amputation” has, however, a wider applica- amputations, tion than to operations about the knee; and, I believe it to be by far the 1'ig. 616. Amputation of the leg by the mixed method. best operation in all amputations of the leg and forearm. It combines the advantages of the circular and the flap without the disadvantages; and rarely, if ever, calls for the sacrifice of more of the extremity than is absolutely required. In its performance the two lateral skin flaps should be made sufficiently long to meet over the stump without