568 ANESTHETICS. moved from the incurable to curable affections. And yet these in- stances of plastic surgery are only a portion of those which I might enumerate. “ In the treatment of deformities about the mouth, nose, and eye; in the division of cicatrices after burns; in the treatment of rup- tured perinmum, with all its complications—what innumerable cases might be quoted new, against the few of former times ! In bone . “Again: in the operations of bones and joints, how many of the operations, improvements in our practice are there that may not be put down to the use of chloroform ?—operations for necrosis in particular. How rare these were, and how unsatisfactory they must have been before its introduction! I can recall a few which i saw in my student’s days with no pleasant feeling. How common they are now, and how succesful! Taking Guy’s as a type of the metropolitan hospitals, an operation for necrosis can always be found for operating days—the operation is so frequent and so satisfactory. In the removal of bone from joints, in the excision of joints, it is only fair to believe that a great part of the success which now attends the practice is to be attributed to the use of an anajsthetic ? How many hands and feet, which would formerly have been sacrificed, are now saved by the removal of diseased bone, it is difficult to estimate. Would Sir W. Fergusson have framed the phrase ‘conservative surgery,’ and could it have been adopted, before the introduction of chloroform ? In aneurisms. “ In the treatment of aneurisms, have not like improvements to be recorded P Has not chloroform rendered possible the cure of aneurism by pressure ? Has it not also rendered the practice of torsion of arteries for the arrest of haemorrhage a practical suc- cess, thus simplifying surgery ? How many cases of strangulated Strangulated hernia are now reduced, which in former times would have been sub- mitted to strange treatment and to a delayed operation ? How simple Dislocations, it has comparatively rendered the reduction of recent dislocations! Where are now the pulleys, the ropes, and the other frightful mecha- nical appliances, that were used of old for the reduction of dislocations of the hip, shoulder, and other joints ? Are they not decaying in the lumber-rooms of our hospitals ? and has not the use of chloroform made the reduction of dislocations by manipulation a reality ? On one occasion I reduced with ease, by manipulation, a dislocation of the elbow-joint backwards, complicated with fracture of the humerus, which would probably have been left unreduced before the introduction of the anaesthetic, and more recently the head of the humerus dislocated on to the dorsum of the scapula, complicated with fracture through the tuberosities. “ Let us contrast for one moment the operation of perineal section for stricture as it was and as now performed. Do we not all remember it as one of the most unsatisfactory and unsuccessful of surgical opera- tions ? Do not we know it to be one of the most satisfactory and successful ? Indeed I might continue the contrast between the pre-anass- thetic period and the present; but I think I have said enough to show that to the introduction of chloroform many of our best improvements in surgical practice are to be attributed. For the surgeon it does away with all excuse, if any ever existed, for hurry in an operation. He can take his steps in it with deliberation, and make it a certainty. We never see now, happily, a theatre full of spectators observing the opera-