ORCHITIS. 199 The treatment hy compression, hy means of strapping or an india- Pressure, rubber bag has also been strongly advocated. I have used it but little in the acute affection, although in the more chronic or subacute. In the when the disease has passed into an inactive stage and little remains chronic foim behind but the 'product of the inflammatory process, the treatment by pressure appears very valuable, indeed, more so than any with which I am acquainted; nothing tending more to hasten the absorption of the inflam- matory product. (Fig. 383.) Vidal’s plan of puncturiug the tunica va- ginalis or even the testis itself, has been freely practised by some English surgeons, and Mr. H. Smith speaks highly of its value. I have, however, never seen a case calling for so severe a measure. When tension exists an incision into the tunica vaginalis may be made with impunity, but I should hesitate to puncture the testicle unless sup- n puration were present. If mercury is ever needed in this affection, it is at the chronic stage, Pressure for as its power, doubtless, lies in its tendency to produce disintegra- with or :< tion of inflammatory products, so it prevents the organisation and subsequent contraction of such in and around the spermatic ducts which produces the special evil effects of epididymitis. When I have had occasion to use it, I have done so as an ointment applied with pressure to the part, but how far the good results which I have had : from the practice has been due to the pressure alone I am unable to say. Of late, I have been accustomed to employ simple pressure in these cases, and have no reason to believe my success has been less favourable than previously. If suppuration takes place as a consequence of epididymitis, a result which occasionally happens, it is well to open the abscess early, and i freely, as by such a practice the discharge finds easy vent, and the for- mation of sinuses is prevented. Water dressing to the part, and the use of the suspensory bandage are the best subsequent local means, while tonics and good living are generally required. On Acute Orchitis or Inflammation of the Seminal Gland. Orchitis or inflammation of the seminal gland as an acute affec* Oninflatnma- i tion, for the most part, occurs as the result of an injury, but appears ^0IJ of bo**y : at times spontaneously without any such cause, and more particularly ° ie es,lcle- i in connection with parotiditis or mumps. It may, too, be due to an extension of inflammation from the epididymis or spermatic duct, but it rarely, if ever, takes place as a primary affection in connection I with gonorrhoea. Acute orchitis may also attack the gland in its descent into the Orchitis of i scrotum, and the following case illustrates this fact:—Robert H nialpiaccd . rnt. 12, was brought to |me at Guy’s Hospital on June 20, 1859; and tesucle- as he walked into the room it was at once observed, that his body was ! bent unusually forward, and his movement much restrained. The j right testicle not having descended from the abdomen could not be felt, and the left had first shown itself at the external ring three days before the boy’s application. Pain in the groin, extended