445 PATHOLOGY OF JOINT DISEASES. Let us now inquire into the changes that the bone undergoes during this inflammatory or wrongly called strumous affection. The most striking is probably the earliest, which is the expansion Expansion of of the articular extremity, and in some cases this will be very great, the articular and generally uniform. The articular extremity of the affected hone, extremity, or the epiphyses of all the bones entering into the formation of the joint, will appear to he rounded and generally enlarged. Upon making Characters, a section of a hone thus affected, it will be found softer than natural, indeed, it may be so soft as to allow a knife to divide it, or even to break or crush it on firm pressure. To the eye, the section will appear more vas- cular than natural, the cancellated portions more cancellated, the cells enlarged, and the bony septa radiating from the shaft in a broad, palm- like fashion. The cells will also be found filled with a pinkish serum. If the disease continue, and the inflammation be of a healthy type, Bone may parts of the bone will appear denser and more indurated than the remain- become dense der; its cancelli will be filled with inflammatory products which have or- indurated ganised, and the bone will appear on section as a dense and apparently bloodless mass surrounded by other vascular cancellated tissue. Should jjay the inflammation be of an unhealthy character, diffused suppuration suppurate within the bone will take place, and death of the bone, wholly or in an“ die- part, follow. Under these circumstances, the disease will probably have become a genuine joint affection, and have extended to the synovial Extension membrane of the joint, and set up disease within its substance, into joint This extension of disease will show itself by effusion within the joint, causing joint by pulpy thickening of the synovial membrane and of the cellular lii8eMe- tissue around the articulation. Up to this point the disease has been local, involving only the articular extremities of the bones, and has not attacked the proper joint structures, and appears also to be per- fectly curable. But at this stage of the disease the articular cartilages will have become affected; for when the inflammatory action has continued for any period, and not shown any indications of subsidence, but, on the contrary has either assumed an unhealthy character, or inter- fered with the nutrition of the articular lamella of bone upon which the cartilages rest, the articular cartilage to a certainty will undergo a granular degeneration upon the surface in apposition with the bone, become loosened from its attachment, and be thrown off or shed (Fig. 532); or it may degenerate in patches and present to the eye an irregular excavated surface. If the disease be chronic, the cartilage will degenerate slowly, and be as slowly loosened from its osseous base, when it may readily be lifted off the bone by any instrument. If the disease he more rapid, the cartilage will likewise he shed more rapidly, raised as a blister off tbe bone, or found lying upon it as a foreign body, when under the micro- scope, it will appear to have undergone the granular degeneration. A\ hen the disease is acute, the cartilage may disappear altogether. Fig. 682. Articular cartilage involved. Drawing (G. M. 3030°), made to show tlie shedding of the ar- ticular cartilage in ostitis.