NECROSIS. 517 whole shaft of the tibia. The bowing of the limb was due to the bending of the fibula, which had grown naturally and bent to adapt itself to the shortened tibia. When the sequestrum cannot be raised from its bed, it had better be " hen left alone, the opening made not being lost, as through it the ^eesdtnim sequestrum may subsequently be taken away or expelled naturally. Dead bone, the result of periosteal disease, that is not covered in by new bone, readily exfoliates, and rarely requires more than its simple removal by forceps, the soft parts covering it being divided; in this way, large portions of the skull may be removed. 1 have taken away nearly half the frontal bone in a child, and also in an adult, after syphilitic periostitis, large portions of all the cranial bones forming the vault. In one case, large portions of the parietal, occipital, and frontal bones were removed. When after necrosis of a bone the sequestrum presses upon an Necrosis may artery, fatal haemorrhage may ensue. Thus, Poland has recorded u]“es,catioil of (‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.’) three cases where such a result took place in artery> necrosis of the femur, the popliteal artery in each having been wounded. Holmes has also recorded a case where a fatal haemorrhage from the Necrosis^ lingual artery followed disease of the jaw, and from the aorta in caries m°eratiou of of the spine. A preparation in the Guy’s Museum (1243s0) also shows arteries, a piece of necrosed tibia that perforated the anterior tibial artery and set up haemorrhage, necessitating the application of a ligature to the femoral artery. When necrosis occurs in a joint, prof use suppuration and disorganiz- Necrosis in a ation must ensue. Where this does not prove fatal and repair goes on, recovery may be prevented by the presence of diseased bone; and when this can be detected its removal is the best practice. I have done this in the knee in three cases, and in the hip, ankle, shoulder, and elbow-joints with good result, having in all removed large pieces of dead bone through a sufficiently large incision. (‘ Lancet,’ Feb. 6, 1875.) Such cases as these must be looked upon as cases of necrosis, the joint having lost its special features by previous disease. Necrosis of the carpal and tarsal bones is a common affection, for Necrosis these bones die like the flat bones, no new sheath of bone preventing of carpal and their exfoliation or removal. They may be treated freely, such inei- ,arsal tones, sions being made as will allow of their removal. The os calcis is the Frc,e incision bone most commonly affected, and 1 have removed a large portion1111 remo'a1, of it on many occasions with complete success. The epiphysis of the heel is not rarely affected. The scaphoid is sometimes involved, even at a very early period. The cuneiform and cuboid, separately or together, are also found diseased. Not long ago, I removed from a boy’s foot by two incisions, the whole row of these bones, and an ex- cellent foot wars left—so good, indeed, that it was difficult to believe that so much bone had been taken away (Fig. 548). The same may be said of the carpal bones. Indeed, in these cases true conservative surgery is of great value. The removal of dead bone, however ex- tensive, is a very safe operation, and followed by results which are often startling by their success. There is no limit to the removal of necrosed bone, wherever found, nor to the amount of natural repair. To amputate a limb, foot, or hand, for necrosed bone until the surgeon has proved that the removal of the diseased part is impossible