87 URINARY CALCULI. Guy’s Museum). The intervals between the spines are sometimes filled with urates or phosphates, which give the stone an ovoid form. The section of a mulberry calculus is generally that of an imper- Section of. fectly lamellated structure, the consecutive layers forming waving lines which often resemble the knotted heart of an oak (Pig. 338); but occasionally a layer of oxalate of lime is to be seen arranged around the interior one with great regularity, having a remarkably radiated appearance like a series of infinitely minute needles placed side by side, and presenting a perfectly porcellaneous structure. In compound calculi the oxalate of lime deposit gives to the character of a stone a remarkably beautiful appearance resembling that of fortification agate. » The oxalate of lime calculi that have their origin in the kidney (and pass soon after their descent) are usually small, smooth, hemp-seed bodies. The crystalline mulberry stone is of a pale brown colour, and, ac- cording to Dr. Yelloly, composed of nearly pure oxalate of lime. Poland had a case of this kind in which the stone on extraction crumbled to pieces from the absence of any binding material of animal matter. He gives also, on the au- Fig. 339. thority of Mr. C. Williams, of Norwich, an account of a pure white oxalate of lime calculus. “This,” he says, “ is of a milk-white colour, possesses a highly polished surface, is of extreme rarity, and is generally, if not al- ways, found in the kidney ; its external surface presents no crystals, but is perfectly smooth, though it may be spinous. In the museum of the Norwich Hospital are three specimens.” Mixed calculus. The nucleus of a mulberry stone usually contains uric acid (Fig. 339), while the body is often made up of alternate layers of uric acid and oxalate of lime. The urine is generally acid. Singular as it may appear, these rough mulberry stones rarely give rise to so much bladder irritation as the smoother forms; possibly they roll about less. White oxalate of lime calculus. Its nucleus. 4. Cystine or cystic oxide calculus is of rare occurrence, and is a Cystic oxide formation of the kidney. Wollaston discovered it in 1810, and the eal*-,ulus. second calculus which he analysed is in Guy’s Museum and is about an inch in diameter (Fig. 340), and contains sulphur in large proportions. Poland points out its hereditary nature, since out of 22 collected cases' 10 occurred in four families, and in these the subjects of the complaint were brothers. The calculi are generally rounded or smooth but may be slightly tuberculated. They have a wax-like lustre, and appear semi-transparent and glistening. When recent, they are of a pale yellowish-brown colour, but when kept long assume a pea-o-reen appearance. Dr. Bird remarks upon this point, «It has been suggested