496 OPERATION FOR LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. Operative interference. Mode of performing operation. Direct method. Subcuta- neous method. Square’s experience. Larrey’s statistics. cartilage the size of a large almond, and in three months, under ob- servation, it gradually lessened until it disappeared. When inflamma- tion of the joint follows one of the attacks of pain, it should be treated on ordinary principles. When, however, the cartilage, by its presence, produces such serious inconvenience as to destroy the value or use of the joint, whether from the frequency of the attacks, the amount of inflammation that follows, or the dread connected with the affection, some operative interference may be justifiable, and the cartilage should be removed either by direct or subcutaneous incision, the latter being preferable; but no operation should be undertaken till all inflammatory action has ceased, and the joint is in a quiescent state. With the view of removing the offending body by direct incision, a splint should be applied and worn for at least a week; the loose body should then by manipulation, or by such movement of the joint as the patient from experience knows will bring the cartilage under the surgeon’s control, be brought up to one side of the joint, and in the knee, its usual seat is on one side of the patella, where it may be fixed with the finger. The surgeon may then draw the skin over it to one side, and cut down directly upon the cartilage, the incision being large enough to allow of its escape. The wound subsequently should be accurately closed by either a pad and strapping, or a pad soaked in compound tincture of benzoin, and the limb kept upon a splint till repair has been perfected. The removal by subcutaneous incision consists in the fixing of the cartilage by means of a grooved or harpoon-shaped needle inserted into its substance through the skin; of, next, the introduction of a tenotomy knife beneath the skin down to the cartilage, and the division by a free sweep of the knife of all the subcutaneous tissues covering it in; then of the dislodgement of the cartilage by the application of strong digital pressure, or tilting it by means of the grooved needle into the cellular tissue of the parts around, and the application of a pad of lint over the spot where the cartilage escaped from the joint; finally absolute rest of the limb upon a splint must be subsequently enforced, and an ice-bag applied over the joint. After this operation, a small blister may be applied over the cartilage in the cellular tissue; Syme having found that by such means the foreign body becomes fixed in its new position and subsequently absorbed. To remove it by a subsequent operation is a recognised though rarely required measure. Mr. W. J. Square, of Plymouth, adopts the indirect opera- tion, but instead of squeezing the cartilage completely through the subcutaneous wound, he is satisfied by simply pressing the foreign body into the subcutaneous opening and fixing it there by compress and strapping. At the Brit. Med. Assoc, for 1871, he related twenty- four successful cases. The subcutaneous operation is, doubtless, in either of its forms, the safer of the two described; the direct incision should be reserved for large growths or when the other has failed. M. Larrey’s statistics (£ Gaz. des Hopitaux,’ No. 67) fairly prove the truth of these observationsOut of 129 cases operated upon by the direct method, 28 were fatal; and only 5 out of the 38 by the indirect. He concludes, after a careful analysis of cases, that the. operation is a serious one when practised by direct incision, and a difficult one by the subcutaneous method, while extraction is more dangerous than the persistence of the affection. He believes the operation is indicated II