65 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. When liquid motions or small intestine contents communicate with the bladder the symptoms are not nearly so distressing, and the neces- sity for interference is thereby diminished. . _ The only means the surgeon has at his disposal by which relief can C ilctomy be afforded is colotomy; and, when the rectum is the seat of the a‘ disease, whether cancerous or otherwise, lumbar colotomy ought to be performed. By it the faeces are diverted from their unnatural channel and discharged through the loin, and all the miseries of bladdei complication are effectually relieved. When the ulceration is of a simple kind, there is some prospect of its closing; when of a can- cerous nature, such a result cannot be expected; but, under both circumstances, a large amount of relief is immediately afforded and life prolonged. I have had four cases of vesico-intestinal fistula, in which this Examples, operation, lumbar colotomy, has been performed with marked success; one lived six years after the operation, and died, ait. 70, from ruptured heart; the second is still alive and well, seven years after the operation; the third died four months after the operation from kidney disease. Mr. Holmes, Mr. C. Heath, and Mr. Pennell, of Rio, have had similar cases. For further information vide Holmes’s paper, * Med.-Cbir. Trans.,’ 1866-7; and case, with remarks, by author, ‘Brit, and Foreign Quarterly,’ Jan., 1869; and ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ 1872. Tumours of the Bladder. These, as met with in practice, may be ivarty, fibrous, villous, epi- Tumours ot thelial, or cancerous. The first three benign growths are usually more tl,e bladder, or less polypoid and connected with the mucous or submucous tissue of the bladder; the epithelial and cancerous being more infiltrating. The warty and fibrous are most frequently found in children, and Warty and give rise to symptoms similar to those of stone and urinary obstruc- li’)rou3' tion. They are rarely attended with hemorrhage, differing in this respect widely from all other vesical growths. In the early stage they cause bladder irritation, and in the later, as they approach the urethra, difficult micturition or retention; at times in females, the polypus may protrude through the orifice of the urethra. They cause death usually by obstructing the urinary outlet and inducing organic disease in the bladder and kidneys, suppurative nephritis being a common cause of death. Pathologically they may appear as outgrowths from the mucous and submucous tissue, gradually becoming polypoid, the expulsive action of the bladder, doubtless, having considerable influence in en- couraging this result. They are composed of fibro-cellular or fibrous tissue not unlike the polypus of the nose; and occasionally assume more of a warty character. They are sometimes, although rarely, single; generally many pedunculated growths spring from a single base, while sometimes they appear to cover a large surface of the bladder. In Fig. 322 this condition is well seen. It was described by Sir A. Cooper as “ Tumour of the mucous membrane of the bladder everted. Polypoid 5 excrescences producing symptoms of stone.” Polypoid outgrowths occasionally spring from the prostate gland and give rise to similar I symptoms. Treatment.—Little more than palliative treatment has hitherto Treatment. Jbeen employed in these cases; as the disease has been little under- stood and rarely treated. Yet an old surgeon of Guy’s, Warner, in 1747, incised the urethra of a woman, set. 23, who was'suffering from * VOL. II. 5