26 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Statistics of operations in these cases. On the epiglottome. Calomel. Antimony. Local application. On the laryngoscope. performed; indeed, I am disposed to recommend this operation in every case in which the symptoms are rapidly progressing, and laryngeal spasms coexist. To postpone it too long till the lungs become gorged with blood, and, consequently, disposed to inflammatory action, and the powers of the patient are depressed, is a timid and certainly unsuc- cessful practice. In the opinion of many good surgeons, I know it is thought desirable to postpone operative interference as long as possible—“ to watch and wait.” In this I do not agree. When laryngeal spasms exist with mechanical obstruction, nothing but opening the windpipe places the patient in safety. Out of nine cases consecutively treated by tracheotomy, five recovered. The statistics, however, of my colleague Mr. Durham are less favourable, twenty-three out of twenty- eight cases terminating fatally. In some instances, the scarification or puncturing of the cedematous opening of the larynx and epiglottis gives great relief. I have been accustomed to do this by means of an ordinary tenaculum or mounted needle. Mr. Tudor, formerly of the Dreadnought, has invented a useful instrument for the purpose, called an epiglottome. The punctures into the cedematous tissue may he free, and never seem to do harm. Drs. Wallace and Bevan, of Dublin, have spoken very strongly in favour of the calomel treatment, two or three grains being given every hour until the symptoms are relieved; and Dr. Croly uses inunction at the same time. Other surgeons speak well of antimony, and, doubtless, it is a drug that should always he given ; one, two, or three minims of the antimonial wine every quarter of an hour, until some effect has been made upon the disease, and then at longer intervals. The best local application to the larynx is the hot sponge. A blister over the upper part of the sternum sometimes does good, and, in exceptional cases, leeches to the larynx maybe used. The time all these remedies, however, require to produce their effects is too long, and their action too uncertain to allow the surgeon to depend upon them in acute cases; as accessories to the treatment they are of use, but as means of preventing death when obstruction exists and spasms are frequent, they are not to be recommended. When an operation is performed it should be tracheotomy. Laryngotomy is inapplicable and too near to the disease. Chloroform may be given without fear. Diseases of the Larynx requiring Tracheotomy. Since the introduction of the laryngoscope, our knowledge of the disease of the larynx has so much increased and the treatment of its different affections so much improved, that the subject has become somewhat extensive; so extensive, indeed, that enterprising members of our profession have contrived to turn it into a speciality. This is a subject of regret in a certain sense, as it tends to make the bulk of the profession, and with it the student, look upon laryngeal affections as difficult subjects of investigation and beyond the reach of average skill. This is not, however, in any way correct, for the use of the laryngoscope or throat speculum is no more difficult than that of any other instrument. To use it neatly and efficiently requires skill and some practice, but the same efforts are also essential to every other surgical investigation. The first laryngoscope was introduced to the profession in 1829 by the late Dr. B. G. Babington, who, under the term “ glottiscope,”