57 NEPHROTOMY. Nephrotomy. It is impossible to enter into all tlie questions involved in tlie Nephrotomy,, operation of nephrotomy, but, after full consideration, I have no "u^able. hesitation in expressing my belief, that when with scientific certainty it has been made out that a stone is impacted in a kidney, and it has been proved from the lapse of time that the probabilities of its passage into the bladder are too feeble to rely upon; when, from repeated attacks of renal irritation, hsematuria and the discharge of pus with the urine, it is clear that serious organic changes are going on which must lead to the destruction of the kidney, and thus probably of life, an exploratory operation in the loin down to the affected organ is not only a justifiable but a conservative and scientific operation, and these observations are still more applicable when renal abscess can be made out. I have proved this in practice on several occasions, having in a man Cases, cut down upon a suppurating kidney and evacuated several ounces of pus with marked benefit, and in another opened a large suppurating renal cyst through the left loin. In either case, had a stone been present, it could have been readily removed. On August 31st, 1876, I likewise cut down upon the right loin of a lady, mt. 27, whom I saw, in consultation with Dr. Moore and Mr. Pocock, of Brighton, with a swelling which we diagnosed as renal, and evacuated three pints of foetid pus—the lady making a good re- covery. In 1877 I cut into the left loin of a woman with a lumbar swelling, and let out a quart of pus with marked benefit, my finger readily passing into the dilated pelvis of the kidney. The operation Operation is not one of difficulty, nor of danger ; in both these respects it is on simple, a par with lumbar colotomy, and it is probable that, iu a few years, it will be as recognised an operation. The operation iu its several steps, should be the same as that described for lumbar colotomy, the kidney being readily reached and dealt with through such an incision as was there indicated. The operation is based on an imitation of natural processes, as stones have been discharged through openings in the loins. Before it is undertaken, however, the diagnosis of an impacted stone or a suppurating cyst ought to be almost certain. With respect to the extirpation of the kidney, I am not prepared to speak so decidedly ; nevertheless it must.be recorded, that out of twelve cases in which it has been performed, four recovered. Dr. Brant, of Klauseuburg, on June 7th, 1872, removed the left Cases of kidney of a man, set. 27, which had escaped from the loin through an extirpation of opening caused by a stab four days before. He tied its pedicle in two kic*ue-' portions with a silken ligature, and recovery took place without a bad symptom. (‘ Wiener Med. Woch.,’ Nov. 29th, 1873.) _ December 2nd, 1873, Dr. A. Campbell, of Dundee, removed the kidney that was the subject of cystic disease through an abdominal incision, having mistaken it for an ovarian tumonr, and the patient, who was a widow, a;t. 49, made a good recovery. The pedicle was ligatured with carbolized catgut. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1874.) Dr. Simon, of Heidelberg ; Langeubuch, of Berlin; and Dr. J. T. Gilmore, of Alabama, have likewise removed atrophied kidneys with success. \\ ith these facts before us, the subject is certainly open to considera-