NECKOSIS. 515 sequestrum being loose are great, as most sequestra are shed in four, five, to ten months. I have seen a sequestrum in acute disease thrown off in six weeks, and have removed a large portion of the shaft of the tibia three mouths after the first onset of the symptoms; while, on the other hand, the dead bone may be found fixed at a far more distant date than that named. All know that a necrosed phalanx is generally loose and ready for removal at the end of five weeks, and in most cases the surgeon is justified in performing the operation for necrosis (sequestrotomy) within the year. English surgeons, as a rule, are g|,ouij we disposed to wait till the evidence of the sequestrum being quite wait till it loose is clearly marked; whilst many Continental surgeons, and par- ticularly the German, excise diseased bone within three months of the uu;,t' first manifestation of disease, by what is called a sub-periosteal opera- tion, that is, the peeling off of the periosteum, and the resection of the shaft of inflamed, dying, or dead bone. But in doing this, as nature has not yet indicated the limit to the disease, nor separated the dead from the living hone, much good hone must of necessity he often removed with the diseased, or much of the diseased hone left behind, both of which are undesirable objects. In English practice the cure is postponed and the difficulties of the operation are in- creased. In the Continental more may be done by operative inter- ference than is needed or less than is required, the new formation of bone by the periosteum at the same time being necessarily interfered with. The best practice, probably, is to he found between the two, and that Line 0f is, surgical interference about three to six months after the first appear- practice to be ance of symptoms; in acute disease, and in small and narrow bones ®d°pted- early, but in chronic disease, and in large and thick bones late inter- ference. The Operation of Sequestrotomy. There is no operation in surgery more satisfactory than this, as it is Sequcs- usually unattended with clanger and followed by complete success. In trotom.v- many cases it is simple, while in others it is complicated, the in- genuity of the surgeon being often taxed to devise means to carry out the object in view, viz. the removal of the sequestrum. Taking as a type of the affectiou, the tibia in which the whole shaft or diaphysis is the seat of mischief, many cloacae, or fistulas, leading down to the dead hone through the periosteal bony case will probably he present, as is shown in Fig. 572; and with a probe introduced through an open* Description ing at one end and a second at the other, the surgeon may make his of operation, incision between the two down to the hone—that is, down to the new case of hone that envelopes the old—and having done this he may peel hack the periosteum with a raspatory or periosteal retractor, cut through the new hone that prevents the dead from being seized, by means of forceps or chisel, and thus expose the necrosed shaft. The use of dead piece may then be seized by a pair of sequestrum forceps, and, cutting where practicable, withdrawn. Should it be too long to extract through f°rceps. the wound, or should the opening in the bony case correspond to Its centre, the sequestrum may he divided with a pair of cutting forceps, and its two halves separately removed. At times a good elevator is of use to raise the sequestrum from its bed, or to prise it from its attachment. Occasionally a good deal of the new casing of hone requires removal