212 CANCER OF THE TESTICLE. and unaccompanied by any such symptoms as attract attention—the patient, indeed, seldom seeking advice until the organ has become troublesome from its size, or the dragging pain in the loins excites anxiety, which always exists when the testicle has become large and heavy from any cause. The testis soon loses its natural shape, and assumes more the oval or pyriform outline of a vaginal hydrocele or hsematocele. It will probably have a smooth and equal surface, and he indistinctly fluctuating, though not translucent; while its natural sensation experienced on manipulation will most likely have disap- Differential peared at a very early stage of the disease. The general health of diagnosis. the patient may probably he good, and there will be no evidence of any secondary glandular affection. By these conditions the disease may generally he recognised, the history of the case, the opacity of the tumour, and the loss of the natural testicular sensation, distinguishing it from hydrocele and hmmatocele; and when doubt exists, an explora- tory puncture by the trocar and canula will decide the point, for in cystic disease a little bloody and glairy fluid will alone escape. From the inflammatory affections it may be diagnosed by the difference in the shape and feel of the tumour, for in the different forms of orchitis the organ maintains its flattened form from side to side, feeling hard, nodulated, and tender. In the cystic disease, the tumour is generally more or less globular or pyriform, smooth, elastic, and without the peculiar testicular sensation. The inflammatory affections are also often associated with a hydrocele, and the cystic but rarely, if ever. In the former, also, both organs are generally affected sooner or later; while in the latter, the disease only attacks one. Medical treatment does not appear to have any influence in arresting the development of the cystic, whilst in the inflammatory disease a good recovery may generally be secured by the use of proper remedies. Treatment of Treatment of cystic disease. cystic There is hut one remedy, which is the removal of the diseased organ. No drugs seem to have the slightest effect in diminishing its size or arresting its growth. Excision, therefore, should be performed, the operation being, as a rule, most successful. On Cancer of the Testicle. On cancer of qqie testicle, like all glands, may become the seat of cancerous the testis. ,Jisease, both of the carcinoma-fibrosum or hard cancer, and of the carcinoma-medullare or soft cancer. It is rare, however, for the hard cancer to attack the testis, the majority of examples being of the soft or encephaloid form. For one example of the hard cancer it is probable that at least twenty of the soft are met with in practice. In the different museums a few specimens of the former kind may be seen, and at Guy’s several exist. Tuberous Cancer may also attack this organ in two forms, either as the tuberous form. or the infiltrating cancer. In the former, the disease appears either as an isolated growth, or as several distinct tumours separating the parts and then eventually coalescing into one mass; in the latter, it appears from the beginning as the infiltrating kind, the cancerous elements Infiltrating being more equally distributed between the tubes and ducts of the true lorm' secreting gland tissue. The malignant affections of the organ, as the simple, are accom- panied by the development of cysts, and these, in the malignant cases,