HYDROCELE. 182 Hypothesis of anatomical conditions. Anatomical facts in respect to vaginal process of peritoneum. Congenital hydrocele. Congenital hydrocele of I cord. Diffused and encysted hydrocele of cord. I, Pathology of hydrocele. canal which was at one time present ceasing to exist from the inter- nal abdominal ring to the upper portion of the testicle; while in the scrotum, the two serous surfaces remain permanently free for the pur- pose of allowing easy and ready mobility of the testicle in its scrotal covering. Mr. Birkett, however, has demonstrated that the prolonga- tion of the serous membrane down the inguinal canal into the scrotal sac often remains patent for a longer period than has generally been supposed, indeed in some cases it continues more or less as a pervious canal during the whole of life. It is owing to this fact that in a large proportion of the examples of oblique inguinal hernia, the bowel descends into the open vaginal process of the peritoneum which passes down with the testicle. In connection with this subject, the following anatomical facts may with some confidence be accepted :— That the opening into the peritoneal cavity at the internal ring is frequently open at birth and during the whole of adult life. That the vaginal process of the peritoneum may remain as a more or less open canal during childhood, and even up to old age; and that this tube may extend partially or wholly through the inguinal canal, and even into the scrotal vaginal sac. That this naturally formed peritoneal tube and sac may be closed at the internal or external abdominal rings, or at any intermediate spot between these points, or at its junction with the testis. As a consequence from these facts it is tolerably clear that a col- lection of serous fluid may take place in any part of this prolonged serous channel, and that a hydrocele of the cord or testis of different kinds may be produced. We thus find during infant and early life, from a want of closure of this tube at the internal ring or at some lower part of its course, that a serous exudation may take place into the cord or the scrotal portion of this peritoneal sac, and, that under the former circum- stances a congenital hydrocele of the cord, and under the latter, con- genital hydrocele of the testicle is said to exist. When the tubular portion of the canal is closed above, and the testicular part is open, a simple vaginal hydrocele exists ; and, when the tubular portion of the canal is not closed below, the hydrocele may extend more or less up the canal even as far as the internal ring. In another class of cases, the serous fluid may be confined between the internal and external rings, giving rise to the so-called diffused hydrocele of the cord; and, when it occupies a still more restricted space, it is usually described as an encysted hydrocele of the same part. The pathology of all these different conditions remains, too, the same, the different position of the fluid being accidentally determined by the extent and lines of adhesion, or the closure of the peritoneal testicular prolongations. A reference to Figs. 261-2-3, given to illustrate the subject of hernia, p. 642, vol. i, will assist the student in understanding these points. The Pathology of Hydrocele. It may with considerable confidence be asserted that, as a general rule, the secretion of the serous fluid which gives rise to the ordi- nary vaginal hydrocele is due to an inflammatory affection of the tunica vaginalis ; because in certain cases, flocculiof pure lymph may be