ON THE TREATMENT OP KNEE-JOINT DISEASE. 471 Pig. 558a Bavarian splint as completed for disease of the knee. toms have subsided and tbe products of inflammation alone remain well-applied pressure, by means of strapping, is of great value. Mr. Marshall (‘Lancet,’ May 25, 1872) speaks highly of the five-per- cent. solution of the oleate of mer- cury in oleic acid as an application, and my experience of its use has been satisfactory. Blistering and firing in this affection seem to be of little value. In the very chronic stage of the disease, the Bavarian flannel splint (Figs. 476, 558a), or some other good casing, may be employed. The constitutional treatment in all stages of this affection is essentially tonic, as the subjects of it are always feeble and often strumous; iron, quinine, bark, cod-liver oil, good food, and fresh or sea air are essential elements of successful treatment. By these means, so long as suppuration has not set in, a cure may be effected, although many months may be required for its attain- ment. When suppuration appears, the same principles of practice are applicable. When small deposits of pus form from the breaking down of some portion of the pulpy tissues, and make their way externally towards the skin, and not into the joint, they may be evacuated, and a good result still ensue. But when the joint becomes disorganized from the same cause, questions arise as to the expediency or possibility of saving the joint, but this subject will claim attention in the chapter on suppurating joints In articular ostitis, a disease readily made out in the knee, when simple expansion of the bones (Fig. 547), and an aching pain and heat are the local symptoms, all walking or standing should be positively interdicted; everything like inter-articular pressure forbidden; and fomentations of warm water applied two or three times a day, or strips of wet bandage covered by a handkerchief of elastic tissue or oil silk kept round the joint. Some speak highly of blisters, moxas, and counter-irritants, which I rarely employ, having long found the above practice preferable. When heat has left the joint, the aching, miscalled “growing,” pains disappear, and clinical evidence tends to show that all inflammatory action has subsided—the results or products of inflammation alone remaining, local pressure as applied by strapping not only gives comfort to the patient, but appears to help the absorption of the inflammatory products and the subsequent cure of the disease. Constitutional treatment, however, must not be forgotten, and tonics, as a rule, are needed; cod-liver oil, combined with the syrup of the phosphate or iodide of irons, being a suitable prescription for children. When the appetite is bad, quinine may be given; at other times, non, or other tonic. Good food and good air are as necessary in this as in all other joint cases. The use of the iodine evaporating box should not be omitted. Mercury is unnecessary. In the early stage of articular ostitis, splints are not required, as the joint is not itself diseased, and passive movement of the articulation will not do harm; all inter-articular pressure, however,should be avoided, Constitu- tional treatment. When suppuration occurs. Treatment of articular ostitis of knee. Locally. Constitu- tionally.