23 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE WINDPIPE. first siglit, the surgeon might think that the symptoms are due to Foreign the presence of some foreign body in the air-passage. When doubt bodies in exists, the patient should be made to swallow ; in laryngeal obstruction ®®°P“aag"8 no difficulty will be experienced by the act, whereas in pharyngeal it dyspnoea, will be impossible. Under other circumstances a probang may be carefully introduced into the oesophagus, and, in every case, a careful exploration of the throat and pharynx with the finger should be made. When the foreign body is impacted in the pharynx and cannot be removed, and laryngeal spasm threatens life, the windpipe may require to be opened. The surgeon should always hesitate to employ force in pressing a foreign body downwards. Treatment.—Given the diagnosis of a foreign body in the windpipe, Treatment, the duty of the surgeon plainly is to endeavour to remove it. There should be no deviation from this resolution, because so long as a foreign body remains in the air-passage sudden death is imminent, as spasm of the larynx may be produced by any movement of the foreign body, and any may prove fatal. The surgeon should never allow himself to be misled by the mildness of the symptoms nor by the knowledge that in rare instances foreign bodies have remained' in the passage for years, and even then been expelled, as such cases are exceptional. The accident is one that will inevitably destroy life, although it must be doubtful at what time, or in what form, danger may appear. In all urgent cases in which spasm of the larynx threatens life, Tracheotomy tracheotomy should be performed; because with an opening in the trachea, a fatal spasm is impossible, and the surgeon may then proceed to investigate the case. In cases in which life appears to be extinguished the same practice should be adopted, artificial respiration being subse- quently maintained. Should the symptoms point to the larynx as Further the seat of the impaction, the upper orifice should be closely examined measures to by the finger introduced through the mouth, and a full-sized bougie 1,6 a<lol>teii- or catheter introduced from below through the wound into the larynx. By these measures most foreign bodies caught and impacted in the larynx itself may be removed. In exceptional cases where these measures fail, the surgeon may be called upon to lay open the larynx. The laryngoscope at times will be an invaluable aid in guiding to the position of the foreign body and in effecting its extraction. It is only applicable, however, in adults. When the position of the foreign body is known, its removal may be facilitated by curved forceps. In children, the opening in the trachea should always be as high as Laryngo- possible, and there is no objection to dividing the cricoid cartilage tracheotomy (laryngo-tracheotomy) to reach the larynx. Laryngotomy is scarcely applicable to these cases, the majority being found in children. When the foreign body is so fixed in the larynx as to be immovable by the means suggested, the thyroid cartilage must be laid open by increasing Enlarging of the incision upwards. In doing this the larynx will be fully exposeef, t*le wound, and the removal of the body facilitated. When the foreign body has passed the larynx and is in the trachea, a free opening should be made low down in the passage, which when done it not unfrequently happens that the foreign body is expelled. If not, the patient may be inverted, and succussion employed, that is, the patient Succussion. should be patted sharply on the back or shaken with the view of dis- lodging it.