COMPOUND FRACTURES OF ARM. 405 be simple, and is easily diagnosed and readily treated. A simple anterior Of phalanges, splint is all that is required, a dorsal being rarely called for; a piece of wood serving for the purpose, though a thin piece of perforated zinc is preferable. The splint should be fixed on with strapping, a coating of the compound tincture of benzoin rendering all firm and immoveable. In compound fracture into the elbow-joint when the parts are much Compound injured, excision, probably, is the wisest step to adopt, as by it con- fracture into valescence is hastened and a good arm with a moveable joint as a rule, elbow-joint, given ; whereas a recovery by natural processes without operation, will probably end with anchylosis after a tedious process of suppuration. When the injury, however, is not severe and the patient young, ex- cision is not called for, a recovery with a moveable joint being pos- sible. I have had several excellent examples of this under my care during the last few years. In aged subjects, however, amputation may be required; and in the one from which the preparation (Fig. 495) was taken, such a step was demanded. The drawing illustrates an uncom- mon form of accident—comminuted fracture of the head of the radius and fracture of the coronoid process. Fig. 495. FrG. 496. Fracture of the coronoid process and head of radius, produced by a fall upon the elbow; taken from a woman set. 70. Compound dislocation of ulna and displacement of shaft of radius from its lower epiphysis. Compound fractures of the arm and forearm ought to be treated upon r tlm same principles as the simple, that is, when the injury is not fra”tureof sufficient to necessitate amputation or excision, the bones should be arra and brought into apposition and kept there by means of spliuts inter- forearm- rupted or not, the wounds being covered either by lint soaked in blood or, by what is better, the compound tincture of benzoin. It may be added, that the injury should indeed be great to necessitate amputa- tion, it being justifiable to incur some extra risk to save the hand In a severe case of compound comminuted fracture of the humerus P caused by the passage of a rifle bullet through the bone in a youim man, which came under my care at Guy’s, good success attended the immediate sealing of the wound with benzoin, as well as the applica- tion of the splint. The man left the hospital in three months with