458 DISEASES OF ANKLE-JOINT. Articular ostitis of knee-joint. Characters. On pulpy disease of the synovial membrane. Characters. On diseases of the ankle- joint. that the leg may he made to move about as a flail in every direction. In a large number, however, plates of bones will be found in the synovial membrane or about the articular ends of the bones, as well as bony out- growths or fringes of ossific matter from the margins of the articular facets, together with other changes, to which attention will be directed in the proper place. It is well, however, to remember here, that a large number of the cases of chronic synovitis or hydrops articuli, are really examples of the peculiar disease known as rheumatic or osteo- arthritis. In the abticulab ostitis of the knee-joint the expanded hones are soon made out on comparing the sound with the affected limb, for the articulation thus affected acquires a special shape which is not to be misinterpreted, the condyles of the femur and head of the tibia assum- ing a globular form, the soft parts covering in the bones being healthy and moveable, and no effusion existing in the joint. (Fig. 547.) At times, a joint so affected, will become two inches larger than its fellow; when effusion is present, the extension of the inflammatory action from the bone to the joint itself is indicated, the case being clearly a more severe one. The condyles of the femur or head of the tibia alone may also be the seat of suppurative disease, of an acute or chronic abscess, these local bone abscesses being probably more common in the head of the tibia than elsewhere. Under these circum- stances, the enlargement will be confined to the hone affected, until the abscess burrows into the cavity of the joint when the joint becomes inflamed. This sup- puration may occur with or without necro- sis. Fig. 559 illustrates a case in which diseased joint followed necrosis. In the pulpy disease of the synovial membrane, the local symptoms by which the affection is to be diagnosed are likewise characteristic. In typical cases neither ex- panded bones nor dilatation of the synovial sac with fluid is present, but the different points of bone which are always to he made out in a healthy joint, are obscured, if not undistinguish- able; they are covered in with a soft solid, yielding on palpation over the articular ends of the bones, and more particularly around the patella, a doughy sensation. No fluctuation is to be detected, as a rule, and, when fluid exists, it will clearly be in a thickened capsule. At times, this pulpy thickening of the synovial mem- brane is a secondary affection, due either to some articular ostitis or to repeated attacks of synovitis. It may also occur as part of a syphilitic disease from the effusion of gummy material around the joint. What Collis described as syphilitic joint, I believe to be of this nature, viz. the pulpy disease, in a syphilitic subject, possibly complicated with periosteal thickening. Diseases of the Ankle-joint Nothing particular is to be noticed in the diseases of this joint; their Fig. 547. Appearance of knee tlie seat of articular ostitis.