ANAESTHETICS. 561. Vomiting. Danger signals. Their treatment. Fresh air. Inversion of body. Artificial respiration. Galvanism. Laryngo- tomy. Chloroform or A. C. E. mixture. The patient who appears likely to vomit whilst beginning to inhale the anaesthetic must be at once brought fully under its influence, the tendency to sickness will then cease. The occurrence, during the administration of an anesthetic, of sudden pallor, lividity of the patient’s countenance, or sudden failure or flicker- ing of the pulse, or feeble or shallow respirations, indicates danger, and necessitates immediate withdrawal of the anesthetic until such symptoms have disappeared. On the occurrence of these symptoms, and especially if they should become so urgent as to threaten death from failure of respiration, of the heart’s action, or of both together, the following rules of treatment should be observed: Allow free access of fresh air, pull forward the lower jaw and possibly the tongue, and clear the mouth and fauces, keep or place the patient recumbent, dash cold water on the face and chest, and aid the re- spiratory movements by rhythmical compression of the thorax. Nelaton and Marion Sims advise the inversion of the body with the view of throwing what blood there is wholly to the brain, on the theory that death from chloroform is, as a rule, due to syncope, or to cerebral anaemia. In the more threatening cases, commence instantly with artificial respiration, whether the respiration has failed alone or the pulse and the respiration together. Galvanism may be used in addi- tion to artificial respiration, but artificial respiration is on no account to be delayed or suspended in order that galvanism may be tried. In extreme cases laryngo tomy may be required. Few, if any, are insusceptible to the influence of anaesthetics, from two to ten minutes being required to induce anaesthesia. The time varies according to age, temperament, and habits. The mixture of alcohol 1 part, chloroform 2 parts, and ether 3 parts, should be given in the same way as chloroform alone, care being taken, when lint or a handkerchief is used, to prevent the too free escape of the vapour. I think highly of this mixture. Morbus cordis no great bar to its exhibition. Phthisis no bar. As to its employment in ophthalmic operations. Use of anaesthetics in surgical operations. With heart disease they may be given in any case which requires an operation, though when there is evidence of a fatty, weak, or dilated heart great caution is demanded. Ether is probably under these circuin- tances, the better vapour to employ. Valvular disease is of less importance. In phthisis, when an operation is unavoidable, anaesthetics may be given with impunity. For all operations upon the jaws and teeth, the lips, cheeks, and tongue, anaesthetics may be inhaled with ordinary safety. By care and good management, the patient may be kept under their influence to the completion of the operation. In these cases blood, as it escapes, if not voided by the mouth, passes into the pharynx. If any small quantity finds its way through the larynx, it is readily expelled by coughing. In operations upou the soft palate, fauces, pharynx, and posterior nares, if sudden or severe haemorrhage is likely to occur, it is not advisable to induce deep insensibility. In cases requiring laryn- gotomy and tracheotomy, anaesthetics may be employed with safety and advantage. For operations upon the eye, involving the contents of the globe, the