201 ORCHITIS. rupture or ulceration of the tunica albuginea, and the gradual extru- , sion or hernia of the tubuli of the gland, the extruded gland being covered with granulations. The true nature of this affection was first described by Sir W. Lawrence in 1808, ‘ Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal,’ vol. iv, p. 257. Acute orchitis as a consequence of parotiditis or mumps is a well- Association recognised affection, although it may he difficult to explain the ^.orchitis connection between the two. It is described by some as a kind of ^j.0tiditia. metastasis, but there are no published facts tending to support this view; no one, however, being disposed to deny that the one affection occui’s in connection with the other. The disease is not usually r very severe, and commonly passes away with little treatment, ' leaving the testicle generally sound, few cases being recorded of atrophy of the glands attributable to this disease. The symptoms are precisely similar to those already described, and need no further illustration. Treatment of acute orchitis.—The ordinary principles of treatment Treatment, applicable to local inflammation in general are to be acted on in the treatment of this affection. Rest in the horizontal posture with elevation of the parts and warm fomentations are essential points for i observation; leeching the groin or local venesection, and saline pur- i gatives with sedatives are the chief remedies. The disease has a li tendency to get well by itself, and, unless badly treated or neg- v lected, or attacking very cachectic subjects, this will generally be u attained. In extremely severe examples when the inflammation runs l high, tartar emetic in full doses is a most valuable drug; while colclii- ,i cum, in half-draclnn doses of the wine, with saline purgatives, often acts like a charm. Opium in full doses may also be given where pain fi is severe, and constitutional disturbance great. An acute attack, how- i ever, generally runs its course in about ten days, and seldom ends otber- i wise than well. At other times, the local application of ice is most I beneficial. On Chronic Orchitis. Chrome inflammation is the most common of the true diseases of On chronic *j the seminal gland, and may follow the acute affection or an injury, orchitis, but most frequently it is induced by some special constitutional condition, such as gout, tuberculosis, and more particularly * syphilis. The general symptoms of chronic orchitis, from whatever cause, i are much alike, although they differ in some minor but import- l ant points. In the syphilitic affection, the symptoms are somewhat peculiar, and, as its diagnosis is important, it will receive special con- sideration. The subject will consequently be divided for consideration into the ordinary forms of chronic orchitis and syphilitic orchitis. Chronic inflammation of the testicle comes on most insidiously and" - unless it follows an acute attack, is so unmarked by any special sjnnp- Symptoms. tom, and unaccompanied by pain, that it is often only by the increased i size of the gland that the patient is induced to seek advice In some e cases, however, this swelling is accompanied by pain of <a dull and -i aching character. In the early stage of the disease the gland mnv be ™°.re or less Painful on manipulation, but in a more advanced i! condition, or m a very chronic case, no local pain will be experienced