HYDROCELE. 1S1 of leeches or iodine to a bubo that threatens to suppurate seems a useless practice. In the indolent bubo, or rather where indurated glands exist, local treatment is useless; though care should be observed that no local source of irritation is added to that of the sore, and no excess of exercise taken by which the inflammation may be increased. When the cellular tissue around the glands is infiltrated with inflam- matory products as indicated by its brawniness, &c., the value of local pressure by means of a pad and the spica bandage (Fig. 278) is un- pressure, questioned; while tonics, rest, and other constitutional treatment are beneficial. The local application of some mercurial ointment at times Locai appears to be of use, and a small blister, a strong solution of iodine or application, of nitrate of silver, is of value in hastening either the absorption of the inflammatory products or their suppuration. As soon as suppura- tion appears, the abscess should be opened. When a hard gland is left at the bottom of a suppurating wound, the American practice of apply- ing such a caustic as the potassa fnsa to its centre, to cause its death and subsequent sloughing, or Golding-Bird’s electrolytic caustic, oc- casionally is of great use, this practice being as useful in syphilitic glandular enlargements as in others. In some instances, the removal of the gland by the scalpel may be expedient. Sinuses must, if possible, Sinus-s lo be always be laid open. Wd "pen. If phagedmua attacks a bubo, the local application of nitric acid, or the actual or galvanic cautery is sometimes called for, more particu- larly when, in spite of general or other local treatment, it spreads. Opium, tonics, and other internal remedies must not be omitted. HYDROCELE OF THE CORD AND OF THE TESTICLE. Hydrocele or a collection of serous fluid in close connection with the Definition testicle or spermatic cord, is a term which lias been applied to two classes of cases which differ in their progress as well as in their pathology, and agree only in the one marked and prominent symptom to which the term hydrocele is applicable. For clinical purposes, however, the word has certain advantages, and, with this view, may still be employed. Accepting the term, therefore, as signifying a collection of fluid in close contact with the testicle or spermatic cord, two great divisions of the subject at once suggest themselves, namely, the vaginal Varieties. hydrocele or the collection of fluid into some portion of the tunica vaginalis either of the cord or testicle, and the encysted hydrocele which is an expanded and newly formed cyst, as a rule, in connection with the epididymis, and but rarely with the body of the testis. On the formation of the serous sac.—It is well known to all who On the have studied physiology that the testicle in its descent from the formation of loin during foetal life draws with it into the scrotum two layers serous sae- of peritoneum with its attendant nerves and vessels, and that all pass through the internal and external abdominal rings in front of the cord into the scrotum. The posterior layer of peritoneum being in close connection with the fibrous capsule of the body of the testicle—the tunica albuginea—and the anterior in connection with the purse or scrotum. In a perfectly normal condition, it is generally supposed that at birth or shortly after, the two surfaces of this serous membrane close and become adherent, the