513 NECROSIS. sheath over the dead portion, by which the latter is enclosed or invagi- mated, as the technical term is. The dead part is now called a sequestrum, a name only properly applied to it when loose and in- vagiuated, though often incorrectly used of any piece of dead bone. While this sheath is being formed from the membrane coating the dead bone, changes are going on in the living bone to which it was attached. When the latter has been previously diseased, i.e. when the necrosis has been of inflammatory origin, the inflamma- tory deposit which surrounds the sequestrum softens, pus is formed, i and a groove of ulceration is produced at the expense of the circle of inflamed hone which forms the margin of the sequestrum. If the surrounding hone has been previously healthy the sequestrum i acts as an irritant upon it, setting up first inflammation and thicken- ing to a variable distance, and then ulceration. Thus a groove is i traced round the sequestrum, and the formation of the groove is accom- i panied by suppuration, ‘the pus containing much earthy matter from the disintegrated tissue, B. B. Cooper stating 2£ per cent, of phosphate of lime.’ The pus formed in the neighbourhood of the dead parts i makes its way to the nearest surface, and in so doing interrupts the formation of the periosteal sheath, leaving sinuses or cloacae, passing through this sheath from the sequestrum to the surface of the body, or sometimes into a neighbouring joint or serous cavity. The presence of such sinuses leading through the shell of bone to hard, smooth, : sonorous bone at the bottom of the cavity is the distinguishing mark of necrosis” (Pig. 572). Where the periosteum has been destroyed, no investing sheath of bone will exist to interfere with the separation and casting off of the seques- i trum (Fig. 573); where it is nearly perfect, the shell of new bone will ' be complete (Fig. 571). Under these circumstances, the casing thickens and becomes dense. To reach the sequestrum in the thigh, I have cut ' through a bony sheath upwards of an inch in thickness. The subperi- osteal sheath is never seen in necrosis of the skull or in short cancel- lous bones. The whole shaft, or any portion of a long bone may become ne- crosed, the epiphyses often saving the joints (Fig. 573); but as a rule some portion of the shaft remains attached to one or other of the epi- physes. Occasionally the epiphyses themselves are the seat of necrosis. In the tarsal bones during infant life, the ossific centre of the bones may die and exfoliate. There is also good reason to believe that necrosis of the shaft of a bone often originates after a sprain or injury, from inflammation in the epiphysial cartilage connecting it with the | epiphysis. The amount of thickening around the sequestrum depends much upon Thickening the extent of new bone poured out by the periosteum and the duration of bone of the process; its density also turns upon the length of time the around ' sequestrum has been invaginated, and the character of the inflamma- ) tion. The bony shell in its early condition is soft and readily cut, broken down, or peeled off; in its later stages it becomes almost I as hard as ivory, and is most difficult to cut. When the cloacae of the bone case are large and fortunately placed Cloactemav towards the end of the sequestrum, natural efforts may be sufficient of 1)6 lar"e themselves to get rid of the foreign body, the granulations filling the deaTbmie °f cavity gradually pressing upon the dead hone, and mechanically extrud- vol. ii. 33