DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. 366 Division of tendo A chillis may he required. Examples of sub- astragaloid dislocation. varus; the external malleolus was very prominent, and the astragalus projected on the other side. In some instances the surfaces of the foot are maintained in their right line. In Mr. Pollock’s case, reduc- tion was found to be impossible till the tendo Achillis had been divided when it was readily accomplished. In an able paper, he advocates this practice whenever difficulty of reduction of the inward or outward dislocation, simple or compound, is experienced, and shows that the division of the posterior tibial tendon is occasionally called for in the outward. Mr. Turner, of Manchester, had previously advo- cated the same practice (‘ Trans. Prov. Med. and Surg. Assoc.,’ vol. ix). An admirable paper on this subject has been published by Mr. Mac Cormac (‘St.Thos.Hosp. Rep.,’ 1872). The woodcut produced (Fig. 469) is taken from it, and in the case from which it was taken “ the foot was violently inverted and adducted, its position being like that of talipes varus. The sole of the foot looked inwards and was nearly vertical, the outer edge of the foot, with the patient erect, would rest partially upon the ground. The great toe pointed towards the arch of the opposite foot. The inner border of the foot was some- what shortened and more concave, while the outer was more convex than natural, and appeared as if lengthened. The outer malleolus was very prominent, while the inner could not be perceived, so deeply was it buried. Neither malleolus was fractured, and this would seem to be almost characteristic of this form of injury.” “The rounded head of the astragalus, completely dislodged from the scaphoid, was resting subcutaneously over the cal- caneocuboid articulation. The prominence caused by the head was somewhat masked by swelling of the soft part just below it* The skin covering the head was so tensely stretched that it seemed ready to burst, and a circular slough subsequently formed at the spot. The outline of the head could, however, be easily traced, and the finger, on being passed upwards beneath the external malleolus, readily felt the cartilaginous sur- face of the large posterior articulating facet of the astragalus. Most of it was quite subcutaneous, and its external margin ren- dered the skin very tense. The inter- osseous ligament had been ruptured. The tuberosity of the scaphoid stood out promi- nently, and a depression could be felt behind it. The motions of the foot were very limited.” Macdonnell, of Dublin (‘Dub. Journ.,’ 1839), published a case in which the same bones were displaced backwards, ■where the heel pro- jected, and a marked prominence existed on the dorsum of the foot, with an abrupt descent in front on the tarsus. M. Parise (‘ Annales de la Chirurg.,’ 1845) gives an instance which is apparently unique, of dislocation forwards, in which marked elongation of the foot existed and the projection of the heel was effaced. All these dislocations are rare. The first example of dislocation in- wards that I have seen was recorded by Mr. Cock, in ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Fig. 469. off the astragalus. After W. Mac Cormac.