NASAL POLYPUS. 9 as a whole towards the forehead, and thus reaching the nasal cavity for purposes of exploration or operation. To give more room, the septum Pig. 304-. Removal of nasal polypus by noose. nasi may require to he separate from its base. After the operation the parts readily fall into position, and should be kept there by strapping. No deformity or visible scar follows the operation. This form of polypus seems to be more common in men than in women, and is a disease of young adult life. I have known it, however, in one instance, to appear in a man aged seventy-five. The firmer and fibrous forms of polypi are by no means so common as Fibrous the gelatinous, and seldom spring from the turbinated bones. They grow form, more frequently from the upper and posterior portion of the nasal cavity, from the top of the pharynx and the posterior nares and have a periosteal origin. They do not make their appearance so early in life as the gelatinous, are far more serious in their nature, and more difficult to treat, on account of their position; but when removed, they rarely re- turn. The best mode of treatment is to ligature them through the Treatment, nose by means of a loop of whipcord or wire passed through the nostril into the pharynx and slipped over the growth. When this operation cannot be performed, the nostril may be laid open to give room for manipulation, or it may be necessary to remove the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, or displace the body of, but not remove, the upper jaw itself, to reach the tumour. In 1865, I removed a large Examples, tumour of this kind which completely obstructed the posterior nares of a boy, set. 14, by the ligature introduced through the nostril (‘ Path. Trans.,5 vol. xviii), and in 1868, I removed a second from a lad, set. 18, in the same way. In 1872, in another case, I took away a portion of the upper jaw to get at a tumour of the splieno-maxillary fossa which filled up the nostril from behind. Some of these polypi grow from the antrum and press inwards. The surgeon should bear this fact in mind in examining a case, as it may materially affect his treatment. Cancerous tumours of the nose are found in practice, although not Cancerous frequently. They may attack the body of the organ, as seen in Fig. 305, tumours, or grow from within and press forwards or backwards, filling in the anterior or posterior nares, when they are difficult to diagnose. They are, perhaps, more common in the old than in the young, although two cases have passed under my care in patients under thirty. They are