' SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. inerally associated with bleeding either from the nose or pharynx, hen they grow from within, their removal, when it can be effected,' an expedient practice if only to give relief, and this can be done uch in the same way as in the other varieties of polypi. Conditions simulating polypus.—The conditions of the nasal cavity lich are not infrequently mistaken for polypus are, however, numerous. Many such have passed under my notice, the patients applying for the removal of such a growth, when in reality no growth existed. Malformation of the septum nasi is one of the most common. In it the septum projects either into the right or left nostril, causing more or less ob- struction to respiration, and leading a superficial observer to believe in the presence of some new growth. This deformity may sometimes be the result of an injury; and when so, there is generally some lateral twist of the nose itself. The knowledge of the existence of such a condition is quite sufficient to prevent any careful sur- geon falling into this error. I need hardly add, that by no surgical treat- ment can this condition be remedied. Cancer of nose. A chronic inflammation and thicken- ing of the mucons lining of the nose is another condition which may be, and frequently is, mistaken for polypus. In itthe patient complains of difficulty in respiration, andfeels that there is something in the nose which mechanically impedes that function. On examining the cavity, a smooth, projecting, and firm outgrowth will be observed on its outer wall, which may be regarded as a polypus, hut which is really only the lower turbinated bone covered by a thickened and inflamed mucous membrane. In a case such as this, if a little care be taken in sifting its history, it will probably be found, that an obstruction to the respiration will be the only symptom of im- portance ; there will be no serous discharge, such as is so copious in cases of polypi, although there may be a discharge of tenacious mucous; yet this is not common; since the secreting function of the mucous mem- brane in these cases will generally be found diminished, and a great dryness present, accompanied by a loss of the sense of smell. Treatment. The best treatment in such examples is the constitutional, in the form of tonics, using that which appears to be more suited to the general wants of the patient’s system. Some slight stimulating lotion such as the sulphate or chloride of zinc, or nitrate of silver of the strength of two grains to the ounce, may at times be required, but constitutional means alone are generally sufficient. Removal of the turbinated bone for this affection has been advocated and performed by some surgeons. I have adopted the practice in a few obstinate cases with marked success. It is worthy of observation that this disease is at times confined to the mucous membrane over the lower turbinated bone; and for reasons which I am unable to explain. 1( gc Removal. W is m Conditions simulating , polypus. wl Bent septum. Chronic thickening.