EXCISION OP THE BREAST. 262 removed. In adenoceie it is not necessary. Mode of operating in such cases. In cancer the breast, no fatal instance occurred. In operating for cancer, it is un- to beC , eHSt questionably the wisest course, as a rule, to excise the whole gland; when the tumour is, however, very local, the rule may be broken through, and it is as well not to be over-anxious about preserving too much integument, for if any doubt exists as to its perfect healthiness, the suspected portion had better be excised. When enlarged glands exist, it is wise to take them away. It is always important, when dissecting out the tumour, to keep clear of all diseased tissues, and, in fat subjects, to leave a fair covering between the incision and the tumour itself, as there is good reason to believe that an early return of the affection is too often to be explained by want of attention to these points. In several instances, 1 have found small cancerous nodules in the fascia over the pectoral muscle, which if left would have been the centre of new growths. In the operation for adenoceie, it is quite ex- ceptional for the removal of the breast to be necessary, and in the majority of instances, such a practice would be clearly unjustifiable. As a rule, the tumour is readily removed on making a clean section through its cyst-wall and enucleating the growth; the breast is rarely injured, even by the operation. In exceptional examples of this affec- tion, however, it is absolutely necessary that the breast-gland should be excised, that is, where a large tumour is closely connected with it, as well as in the genuine or true cystic adenoceie of the mammary gland. In the removal of a small tumour not involving the breast the best practice is to make the incision in a line radiating from the nipple, and to manipu- late the parts as little as possible; the surest plan being to cut well into the tumour after having raised and made it prominent by grasping its base with the thumb and finger of the opposite hand. The Operation.—In the removal of a breast, the patient should he placed on her back with the shoulder of the affected side raised by a pillow and the arm drawn out at a right angle to the body. The inci- sion should be elliptical and made in a line parallel with the fibres of the pectoral muscle, and, when the skin is diseased,it should be removed. The inner or sternal incision should then be made, and bleeding con- trolled by the pressure of the fingers of an assistant. The second incision may then follow, and should be made down to the free border of the pectoral muscle, the definite form of which is the best and surest guide to the base of the gland. The whole tumour by these means is thus readily excised, a few touches of the scalpel dissecting it off the pectoral muscle. The axillary angle of the tumour should be divided last, as it usually contains the chief vessels that supply the gland. All bleeding vessels should be twisted, the surface of the wound cleaned, its edges well adjusted, a drainage tube introduced at the most dependent part when the wound is large, and steady pressure applied by means of pads of lint, gauze, or cotton wool. Adenoid or innocent tumours should be excised only when they are steadily increasing, and are sources of trouble. Cancerous tumours should be removed as soon as the diagnosis of their existence is clear, for accumulated evidence tends to show, that the earlier a cancer is removed the better are the prospects of a complete or lengthened immunity from the disease, and that whether the disease returns soon or late, the best chance is thus afforded to the patient. Description of the operation for excising the breast.