LITHOTOMY. 119 face upwards as far as tlie apex of the prostate, and holds it there, as a guide to the next step of the operation. He then takes a long straight bistoury, and, with its edge upwards, introduces it about half an inch in front of the anus in the median line, down to the membranous por- tion of the urethra or apex of the prostate, into the groove of the staff, and presses it towards the bladder for about half an inch. He then cuts upwards, dividing the membranous portion of the urethra freely, and the soft parts of the peril)tcum, making an external wound about an inch and a half long. Through this wound he next introduces a long ball- pointed probe along the groove of the staff into the bladder, then withdrawing the staff. Upon this probe the finger is passed into the bladder with a rotatory movement, the prostatic portion of the urethra and neck of the bladder being dilated, the forceps are then inserted into the bladder and the stone removed. Where the stone is large, Allarton employs Weiss’s three-bladed female dilator, or Arnott’s hydraulic dilator. Upon the whole, however, modern experience does not give much Remarks on support to the operation. It may be done with safety when the j|><- stone is small; but when large, there must of necessity be too much „perat,,on. laceration of the neck of the bladder and prostate to render the opera- tion equal to the lateral. In children, the dilating process is dangerous, and apt to be at- tended by a tearing away of the neck of the bladder from its perineal attachment. In adult patients where lithotrity is inapplicable and the stone not large, it may be employed, particularly when any loss of blood is to be guarded against; for it is probably the case that there is less loss of blood in adults by this operation than in lateral lithotomy; although in children, there is no difference between the two operations in this respect. The experience of Guy’s surgeons is certainly not favourable to the operation, and that of Norwich in no way tends to give it any support, the mortality of the median being nearly twice as great as the lateral operation ; indeed it may be stated, that as an operation, it is losing ground. Dolbeau’s operation must be mentioned as a modification of the Dolbeau’s median. A full description of it can be found in his work on ‘ La Litho- operation, tritie Perineale,’ 1872. In its first step where the membranous portion of the urethra is opened, it differs in no important respect from Allar- ton’s, but in the second, the neck of the bladder and parts external to it are dilated, while in the third, unless the stone be very small, it is broken before removal. The dilating process, an essential part of the operation, is effected by means of a very ingenious six-bladed dilator, the blades of which are so arranged as to separate without diverging, by means of two balls which move upon a central stem. The external parts down to the urethra are dilated first, then the membranous portion of the urethra, and lastly, the neck of the bladder; the passage into the bladder by these successive dilatations being of uniform calibre and with smooth walls. The stone is broken,°not crushed, by the “ cassepi&rre,” an instrumeut that opens in the bladder without divergence of its limbs. The fragments should then be removed with care and the bladder washed out.