ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OP THE HEAD. 550 Injury to bone. Fracture of inner table without that of outer. Comminuted fractures. Wounds with fracture and depression. Severe scalp wounds are generally caused by the impact of a pro- jectile at an acute angle. Under such circumstances, the bone is often left intact, and little or no injury to the brain results. At a less acute angle, the bone may be bruised, scratched, or fur- rowed, fissured, starred, or comminuted, and with these several con- ditions, more or less severe brain symptoms may be associated, the gravity of the symptoms depending on the severity of the concussion. Concussion in military as in civil experience means either a tem- porary suspension of brain functions, a contusion or laceration of the brain structure, or a more or less severe extravasation of blood upon or into the brain itself. A severe contusion of the skull without fracture being quite capable of producing a fatal laceration of a sinus. “A simple observation of the injury to the outer table, whether by sight or touch, will by no means necessarily lead to a knowledge of the amount of injury or change of position in the inner table.”—Long- more. Indeed, it is quite possible for a piece of the inner table of the skull to be fractured and detached without any fracture of the external taking place. This is illustrated in Figs. 604-5, taken from the draw- ing of what is believed to be a unique specimen (2313, A. M. M.), in the United States’ Museum, published in Circular No. 6. Fig. 604. Fig. 605. Circular No 6, Figs. 4 and 5, Washington. Fig. 604.—Exterior view of the fore-mentioned specimen. Fig. 605.—Fracture of the vitreous table of the frontal bone, without fracture of the external. When the external table has been ploughed off by the projectile, care should be taken not to mistake such an injury for a fracture of both tables with depression. In military, as in civil practice too, fissured fractures are mostly the result of blows by heavy projectiles, and fissures of the inner table without external evidence of the injury, occasionally occur. Comminuted fractures in both military and civil experience are also chiefly local injuries, the force of the ball or blow expending itself on the injured spot. Wounds complicated with fracture and depressed bone without lodg-