VAGINAL FISTULA. 236 Paring of edges. Sutures. After- treatment. knees and thighs falling over the end of the table, the surgeon looking down upon the fistula (Fig. 890). When the uterus is dragged down sufficiently far to evert the fistula, the lithotomy position is doubtless to be preferred. The fistula having been brought well into view, the next step is to pare its edges, and in doing this the operator must not be too sparing of tissue; his aim being to obtain as broad and as clean a surface as he can. When this can he secured by means of a knife and forceps, no better instruments are required, the best knife being one that can be adjusted to any angle with rapidity and ease. When the fistula is high up in the vagina or large, the pronged guide (a modification of Hilliard’s, of Glasgow) made for me many years ago is an excellent instrument (Fig. 392). It is readily applied and ensures a clean cut surface. Some surgeons prefer the scissors (Fig. 392a). When this step of the operation has been completed, the edges of the fistula must he brought together, and for this purpose numerous devices have been employed. Splints of all kinds have been suggested, but with experience they have all been discarded, simple wire, silkworm-gut, or silk sutures, fastened with shot or otherwise, being preferred. I have tried every form of splint, and have at last come to gut sutures with or without shot fastenings, using occasionally a plaited fishing silk. The sutures should be introduced tolerably close together, and at a good distance from the margin of the wound, say a third of an inch, and should not be drawn too tight. They should be fastened by running a per- forated shot down over them, taking the precau- tion subsequently, to tie the gut over the shot to prevent its giving way. In this step, the operation is similar to that for fissured palate. In Fig. 393 the needles employed with the mode of introducing and securing the sutures may he seen. A good strong pair of forceps is required to nip the shot after they have been slipped into position. When wire or gut is employed, Startin’s hollow needles may be used, but the ordinary curved needles with good eyes at their ends are the best for silk. With wire, gut, or silk the shot fastenings are the best. After the operation, the vagina should he well cleansed of blood and the bladder emptied. Ice or iced water will generally arrest any bleeding that may ensue. An opiate suppository should be admiuis- Fig. 392. Paring edges of vaginal fistula.