404 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF HAND. Treatment. Of carpal. Of metacarpus Malgaigne lias recorded instances of this accident from muscular action. In infants, the “ green-stick” or “ incomplete” fracture of both bones is not infrequent. The fracture may be transverse, oblique, or comminuted, and the displacement of the fragment may vary vastly according to the direc- tion and violence of the force which produced it. These fractures are readily made out, and not often difficult to manage, although at times the surgeon’s ingenuity is taxed to prevent deformity. Under all circumstances, the forearm should be flexed, and the hand kept in the semi-prone position. Two wide splints should be employed, well padded, broad, and coming down to the roots of the fingers, the surgeon so arranging his pads as to prevent deformity and to neutralise the peculiar tendency of the fracture. When the parts are bandaged too tightly, the bones maybe pressed together and consolida- tion takes place as a whole, with consequent loss of motion, or the two hones may be braced together by some bony isthmus (Fig. 494). Under all circumstances, the fracture should be put up with the hand supi- nated, the dorsal splint being first applied and then the palmar, the forearm being semi-flexed. When fracture of the radius and ulna takes place above the wrist-joint, the symptoms may simulate those of dislocation; hut the greater mobility of the lower ends of the bones, crepitus, and local pain, ought to forbid the error being acted upon. Fracture of the carpal bones can only occur from direct violence, some crushing force being the usual form. It may be difficult to diagnose, as the same force that produced the fracture to a certainty will have injured the soft parts around the hones. Happily, however, the treat- ment of any severe injury to the wrist should be such as will serve for all; for the application of an anterior splint, as well as cold lotions and absolute rest of the injured part, ought always to be observed in all clear as in doubtful cases, and with these a good result may generally be secured. Fracture of the metacarpal bones is not rare. It is commonly caused by some blow when fight- ing or other form of direct violence. It is rarely complicated with any displacement. In young subjects, the head of the bone or epiphysis may be displaced. It should be treated as all frac- tures, “ with brains,” the pads and splints being so applied as to fulfil the wants of the indi- vidual case. In the majority, a simple pad placed on the palm with an anterior splint may be sufficient. In one case, Malgaigne’s plan of placing a thick compress under the head of the bone, and a second over the dorsal projection with two broad splints across the hand may be called for. In another, Sir A. Cooper’s, of binding the flexed fingers over a ball, may fulfil the necessary requirements; but, as a rule, an anterior splint and palmar pad carefully adjusted, supplies every want and is sufficient, the surgeon remembering that the palmar surfaces of these metacarpal as well as phalangeal bones are concave. Fracture of the phalanges is usually compound, although it may Fig. 494 Radius and ulna con- solidated after fracture. Prep. m9«>.