ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. 51.0 When part of the body is carried away by a gunshot at full speed the surface of separation will present a level yet contused and almost pulpified aspect. When the speed is less rapid, the soft parts where the separation has taken place will be more lacerated and the bone comminuted; and when the speed is spent, or oblique in direction, the injured parts will either be crushed more or less deeply, or with little or no evidence of external injury, the deeper parts may be irreparably disorganised. Again, bullets when at full speed perforate or penetrate, but when at lessened speed they crush and lacerate. When a gun is discharged near the body, the parts around the wound of entrance will be blackened and burned, while the wound of entrance appears as if punched out. When the discharge of the musket takes place a few inches from the body, the injured tissues will be more or less scorched, blackened, and studded with grains of unexploded powder, and the wound of entrance large, ragged and excavated. Wounds from bullets not at full speed, and fired at a distance of two or three hundred yards, will present an opening the size of the projec- tile, or possibly smaller, circular in sbape, with serrated (inverted), undermined, puckered and flabby edges; at times, however, a flap of skin is found at the opening. The margin of the opening will appear as if contused, the evidences of bruising fading away into the surrounding tissues. When the speed of the bullet is much diminished, no skin may be carried away—the diminished speed of the missile simply stretching and tearing asunder the tissues to allow of entrance. When wadding or other foreign substance has been carried into the wound of entrance, this will of necessity be more lacerated and appear larger than it would otherwise be; and the same conditions may be Fig. 600. English and foreign bullets, now employed, of natural size. found to exist when a ball enters the body where bone is only covered with thin integument.