424 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Division of teudo Achillis. Compound fractures of thigh. Amputation in. Conservative practice. In military surgery. trocnemii muscles tend to draw the lower fragment backward into the popliteal space, some surgeons prefer the use of the inclined plane, Fig. 518. Fracture of the shaft of the femur, with longi- tudinal fissure through the condyles into the lmee-joint. Prep.'1200, Guy’s Mus. and, where the bones cannot be otherwise kept in apposition it is, pro- bably, a sound practice. But what I believe to be a better one is the division of the tendo Achillis and the use of the long double splint. This operation paralyses the gastrocnemii, and thus allows the surgeon to bring the bones into a good position and to deal with them as with an ordinary fracture. I have taught this for the last twelve years, but have had only one opportunity of testing its value. It has, however, been practised in America with success. Compound fractures of the thigh. These are desperate accidents, and take place in the proportion of one to every six or seven cases of fracture of the femur, and when they occur, half the patients die. They should be treated where possible on conservative principles, and amputation should only be performed when the soft parts, with the vessels and nerves, are so injured as to forbid any reasonable hope of recovery. Conservative practice should have full scope in young subjects especially, and when any doubt upon the necessity of amputation exists, the surgeon had better de- cide upon trying to save the limb, although in the aged an opposite practice should be adopted. Army surgeons, however, advise the propriety of practising con- servatism for gunshot fractures in the upper third of the thigh, and amputation for all fractures of the middle and lower thirds; the nature of gunshot injuries to those parts precluding all hope of a natural recovery. All modern army surgeons, English, American, French, and German, agree upon this point and endorse Dupuytren’s, Hennen’s, Larrey’s, and Guthrie's opinion, that in gunshot wounds of the thigh, “ in rejecting amputation we lose more lives than we save limbs,” and “ that in the exceptional cases which result in consolidation the condition of the limb is not encouraging.” Amputation of the thigh for compound fracture is most fatal, two Fig. 519. Separation of the epiphysis. Prep. 1210« Guy’s Mus.