LITHOTOMY. 117 If when cutting, after having exposed the groove of the staff, and then Care that proceeding to the second step of the operation he feels the two borders of the groove with the nail of his left index-finger, and with certainty staff. cuts between them into the groove, he will he still sure of his guide into the bladder, and not likely to fall into the not uncommon error of mistaking the side of the staff for the groove and thus going astray. If, again, when running his knife down the director into the bladder, he pushes it sufficiently far as to feel all resistance cease, and for urine to flow, he may be certain that the bladder has been opened. And if, on introducing his finger into the bladder, “ he never pushes the point of his fore-finger onwards unless he feels certain that he has it between the staff and the wound,” he is not likely to make a cavity in the cellular tissue outside the bladder with his finger, or to push the Not to bladder off the end of the staff; and, if he never removes the director or ^Y'flrigers in staff till his finger or gorget has been introduced into the bladder as a bladder, guide to his forceps, he is still free from error. In the last step, he has only to handle his forceps boldly, to grasp the Extract stone full}', and, in extracting it, always to draw downivards and back- stone wards, and he will complete his operation without a mishap. an(j " The external wound should always be free, the internal limi- downwards. ■ ted; moderate dilatation of the neck of the bladder being free from harm. If in operating, the surgeon lose his guide, from the end of the staff External slipping out of the bladder and he be unable to effect its reintroduc- "^^free ( tion, or if by some error he has missed the staff, and allowed his knife woun(j l* to travel by its side, and thus failed to find the bladder, it is better to limited, relinquish the operation, let the wound heal, and operate again, for with- wlien out the guide of the director, the operation is an impossibility, and all de C* manipulation hazardous. But so long as the staff is in the bladder, i errors may be corrected and the operation completed. For by the rein- When i troduction of the knife along the groove, an opening into the neck of opening in I the bladder that lias been made so small as to forbid the introduction gn"aj}er tu0 of the finger may be enlarged, even when the neck of the bladder has ; been pushed backwards and the finger seems about to travel into an ; unknown region. Should the rectum receive a small wound during the operation it Wound of may be disregarded, as it is rarely followed by any injurious effect, and, rectum, i even when the wound is large, it is well, perhaps, to leave the case to i: nature. Should it not heal, the case may have to be dealt with as one | of fistula in ano, by division of the sphincter. At times, the walls of the rectum after the operation may slough from the injury they sustained during the removal of the stone; but such s cases usually do well when left alone. In my own practice, this slough- ing took place after the extraction of a large mulberry calculus, but the case did very well, nor was the recovery tedious. Prostatic enlargement may be a cause of difficulty in the operation When > in elderly patients, and when with this enlargement there is rigidity enlarged ‘ the difficulties are increased, for the surgeon, under these circumstances, Prostate- in order to make a sufficient opening into the bladder, may have to travel far into the pelvis upon the staff, and when the bladder is opened he f. may be unable, on account of its depth, to reach it with his finger. >, Under these circumstances, the blunt gorget becomes of great value.