Single cyst may simulate morliid growth. Treatment of hydrocele. Of congenital. Of infantile. Acupuncture. Of adult. 186 HYDROCELE. Encysted hydrocele of the cord. the vaginal process will have closed naturally. The tumour will thus appear as a baggy or tense elastic swelling in the inguinal canal which it will more or less fill. It will give to the hand a sensation of fluctuation, and, in certain instances, may appear translucent, it will moreover, on any traction of the testicle, be found moveable, and painful in proportion to the Fig- 377- amount of tension of the cyst or of the inflammatory action. In the more localised or apparently cystic hydrocele of the cord, the same symptoms will present themselves. The tumour will be more isolated, probably more moveable and more tense, and it will be readily acted on also by any traction on the testis. It may occur as a single cyst or as many cysts, but each will present the same symptoms. When a single, tense, move- able cyst exists, it may be mis- taken for a distinct morbid growth ; but the diagnosis of the case ought not to be difficult when care is observed. Fig. 377 well illustrates the ordinary appearance of the affection. Treatment of the vaginal hydrocele of the testis.—In the congenital hydrocele of young life, surgical treatment should be very simple, for the disease as a rule readily disappears with age and in- creasing strength. A little cold lotion applied to the part, such as a solution of the hydrochlorate of ammonia and tonic medicine, is frequently sufficient to effect a cure ; for, as I have already stated, the effusion into the vaginal sac in these instances seems to be often of a passive nature. The hydrocele found in infancy is not, however, always of the congenital form; as a hydrocele may exist in an infant in which there is no communication with the peritoneal abdominal cavity through the neck of the vaginal process, and, under these circumstances, a dif- ferent treatment may be required. Cold lotions and tonics may be of use, and certainly should be primarily employed; yet in many instances, the treatment will fail to cure the case. Acupuncture may be then employed, and the fluid allowed to escape into the cellular tissue around the sac, when it may be altogether removed by absorption; but this treatment is not as a rule satisfactory, it being exceptional for a per- manent recovery to be secured by such means, and I am disposed to think it better practice to draw off the fluid by means of a fine trocar and canula, and to excite some fresh action in the membrane lining the tunica vaginalis by stirring it up with the end of the canula. This practice has been very successful in my experience. The treatment of vaginal hydrocele in t he adult. In early examples, when the hydrocele is still small, and consequently of little inconvenience, it is well, perhaps, to leave it alone, for unless it causes anxiety to the patient, or proves troublesome or inconvenient