ABSCESS OP THE BREAST. 241 Chronic mammitis in the boy or girl, is by no means a rare affection, Chronic the undeveloped gland becoming indurated and very painful; yet such ^e“oung‘“ cases rarely suppurate. Treatment.—The activity of the treatment of the affection we are Treatment of now considering must be regulated by the acuteness or severity of the ^a®“£taon inflammatory process, and the nature of the constitutional and local symptoms to which it may give rise. As a broad truth, it may be confidently asserted, that the inflammatory process is of a low type and of a destructive nature, and, that as the constitutional powers are generally feeble, nothing like lowering measures should be adopted, but, on the contrary, soothing local appli- cations and constitutional tonics with sedatives are absolutely demanded. In cases occurring during lactation no other principle of treatment During than those I have just laid down should be entertained. Under such lactallon- conditions, soothing fomentations to the breast, either of warm water or some medicated solution, such as the decoction of poppies, give most relief, although a light linseed poultice or some spongiopiline may be well employed. In young, robust women, where suckling is impossible, the application of laxatives and powerful purgatives may be called for. Eest in the horizontal position affords striking comfort, and. Rest, when it can be carried out, is of great practical advantage; but, if this desideratum caunot be secured, the whole breast must be supported by a band or linen sling. During this time, tonics in such a form as Tonics, can be borne and may be indicated should freely be given, quinine probably being the best. Such stimulants as wine or beer must be cautiously administered, though the cases are few which do not require such an addition to their diet, while plenty of nutritious food should be allowed. A sedative at night is also very generally re- Sedatives quired, and Dover’s powder in ten-grain doses is the best form, for want of sleep from pain is a common accompaniment. A mild purgative in the early stages of the disease may be necessary, i. but excessive purgation should be avoided, since the object of the 3 surgeon is to supply power, and not to remove it—to soothe and not to irritate. On opening a mammary abscess.—There is a great difference of On the » opinion among surgeons about the propriety of opening a mammary opening of a I abscess. Some think the best practice is to let the breast alone, ”J™™sary » and leave the operation to nature,- while others advocate an early j opening. But in neither am I disposed to coincide, for while I 1 regard it as a right practice to postpone puncturing the organ as i long as possible and not to show any over-anxiety in evacuating the a pus*, on the other hand, I know that when the abscess is left to 9 itself much unnecessary suffering is endured and a considerable i' sacrifice of skin often follows, entailing a long convalescence and an ugly cicatrix. The practice I consequently generally adopt is to leave the parts alone till pointing has taken place and : then to puncture, making my incision in a line radiating from the Incision to I. nipple of the patient. By adopting this practice, any unneces- ™diate from sary pain is saved, for the appearance of pointing is directly under the uiPPle- ‘ the observation of the surgeon, and it is not necessary to . make frequent and careful physical examinations. Of course some VOL. II. 16 ’