232 RUPTURE OX*’ THE PERINEUM. Rupture of perinseum in ihe female Conse- quence. |l ! | Treatment- Immediate operation 11 advised. Period for operation remote. Description of the operation. met with, and vaginal polypi are found. I removed one the size of a nut from a child three years old, and similar cases are on record. They should always be ligatured and excised. Rupture of the Perinseum. This accident is not rare as a result of a rapid delivery, and to a small extent it is somewhat common in first labours. When limited, it is not of much importance; hut when extensive, the pelvic organs lose their natural support and are liable to fall, giving rise to rectocele or prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina, or, cys- tocele or prolapse of the anterior wall of the vagina. When the sphincter ani or rectum is implicated, the accident be- comes of grave importance. At times the rupture is central, and, in the case from which Fig. 388 was taken, the child was born through the rupture B. The incident took place in the practice of a medical friend who sent the case to me. Dr. Wilson witnessed a like process in a similar case (‘Ed. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1875). There is no reason to believe that such an accident is in all cases the fault of the accoucheur, although, doubt- Iig. 388. less, it is so with some; yet with a large child and rapid labour, it is often diffi- cult to prevent. I have known it occur in the practice of very good men. Slight ruptures of the perinseum need not be regarded, but when a rupture in- to the body of the perinseum takes place during labour and the accident is re- cognised, the best practice is to put in one or more sutures at once. This prac- tice is so sound that it cannot be too confidently recommended. When the operation is not performed at once but postponed to the future, it must be left till the period of suckling has passed and the general health of the patient been restored, as the opera- tion being a plastic one, requires good power on the part of the patient, and immediate union of the wound is wanted for success. It is very successful when properly performed; indeed, it rarely fails. Operation.—The bowels should be well cleared out by an ape- rient given two days before, and an enema on the day of operation. Chloroform should be given, the patient placed in the position for lithotomy, with the buttocks brought to the edge of the table, and Clover’s crutch applied to keep the knees apart. An assistant should then well separate the labia, and the surgeon with his scalpel map out the portion of integument that he proposes to remove, remembering that it is well to have a broad surface to bring together as well as a cleanly cut one, for a thin membranous union is useless, and a jagged suiface Central rupture of the perinteum through which child was born.