322a ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 1 Clinical 1 Society, 1878. Flat-foot. Treatment. Ger.u valgum. Treatment. Irons condemned exceptiu particular instances. Fig. 428. never deviated beyond a point or so from that degree. On July 11th, the bones having fairly united and the wound nearly closed, Davies- Colley’s talipes splint was put on and the limb swung. On Sept. 10th the boy got up, and the sole of the foot was found, on his standing, to be perfectly flat. An immovable splint was then ap- plied, and the boy left for the country. On October 20th he returned to have the tendo-Achillis divided, with the view of giving more movement to the ankle-joint, and some success has followed the measure. He can now (November 10th) walk fairly well, with his foot as flat to the ground as the unaffected one. Spurious valgus, or flat foot. This requires a notice, as it is a common condition and causes much distress. It is found in growing boys aud girls who stand much or take too much exercise, and is the direct result of the giving way or yielding of the ligamentous and fibrous structures of the sole of the foot (Pig. 428); the arch of the foot sinks, the foot and toes become everted, and the peronei muscles contract as a secondary consequence. In extreme cases the movements of the ankle- joints are likewise seriously interfered with. When slight, the deformity can readily be remedied by simply giving rest to the weakened tissues, forbidding standing, and allowing only gentle exercises; also by the use of tonics, &c., during the growing period of life. Mechanical support by means of strapping, in some cases gives great comfort and does good. In a worse class, the introduction of a light steel plate as a support in the hollow of the boot is of great benefit. It is only in very neglected cases that tenotomy can be called for, and this not as a curative means. In examples in which much pain exists, nothing but absolute rest will be of any use; and in such the local signs of inflammation of the overstretched parts can often be read, when fomentations, &c., may be employed. Knock-knee, like flat-foot, is primarily due to the mechanical yielding ofilthe ligaments of the knee-joint from want of power, but at a later date to the overgrowth of the inner condyle of the femur, from the want of the controlling influence of pressure which normally is applied through the leg bones. It is found in growing boys and girls who stand too much or carry heavy weights, and in those of feeble power either from natural or acquired causes. It is not rarely seen with rachitis. . . It can be treated on principles based upon the facts just briefly stated, and not purely by mechanical means. To put irons on the limb of a feeble subject is a mistake, for where the child is too weak to support his own frame without injury, to give him more to carry must be hurtful. Young children should be taken off their legs as much as possible, and provided with proper food and such tonic medicines as seem requisite. The weakened ligaments should have time £iv®n them to contract and become strong. Older children should be limited in the amount of exercise; rest and exercise alternating at regular intervals. When walking half an hour causes pain or