AFFECTIONS OF BURSjE MUCOSiE, GANGLION, ETC. 307 obtaining any flow of fluid. It was in a man of middle age, had been Bursa growing for about ten years, was tbe size of a fist, filled the popliteal space, and was solid and moveable. I found that it was connected with the inner hamstring tendon only on making the attempt to remove it. On recognising its nature, I took away a large portion of the mass down to its central cavity, which was the size of a nut, but I left the deeper part. Suppuration, however, subsequently attacked the knee-joint, and amputation became necessary. I am unable to point out how a correct diagnosis could be made in such a case as this, but the record of the fact that a solid bursa may exist in this locality, as well as the unfortunate result which accrued upon operation in my case may be of value. Holmes draws attention to a valuable paper by M. Poucher on this subject in the ‘ Archives Generates de Med./ 1856. Synovial Cysts. In connection with this subject of synovial hernia it should be Synovial stated, that at times these hernia} rupture and the synovial fluid c-s,s' escapes into the connective tissue of the leg, forming a synovial cyst; and, if Mr. Wormald was right when he taught that the thinnest point of the joint capsule was at the spot at which it partially encircles the tendon of the popliteus muscle, it is more than probable that it is at this spot that the fluid escapes. The synovial cyst may occupy the popliteal space and upper part of the calf of the leg, or may be evident in the calf of the leg only, pro- jecting most, as a rule, on the inner aspect of the leg, or may be per- ceptible only at the upper and inner part of the leg as a small defined swelling not approaching within three or four inches of any part of the knee-joint. There need not of necessity be any communicable fluctuation between the cyst and the joint. These cysts are generally found in joints that are the seats of osteo- arthritis and are curable. They should not be punctured or otherwise subjected to operation unless there appear strong reasons for so doing, inasmuch as interference may lead to acute inflammation and suppura- tion of the knee-joint. For this information I have to thank Mr. Morrant Baker, who has written a valuable paper on the subject in the * St. Bartholomew’s Hosp. Hep./ 1877. It recalled to my recollection several cases which were doubtless of this affection, and which I did not under- stand. Ganglion. This is met with in two forms, the one the more common as an Ganglion, encysted swelling connected with the sheath of a tendon; the second as a more diffused swelliug involving the theca of one or of many ten- TV dons, those of the wrist being the most commonly affected; and the Dlffu5ed> flexors more frequently than the extensors. I have, however, seen it in the extensors of the toes, and on the dorsal aspect of the foot beneath the annular ligament of the ankle; but it may attack any tendon. Ganglion is always the result of strain or over-action of the tendons. The local ganglion always contains colloidal apple-jelly-like material, which is at times crystal-like in clearness, at others pinkish. In the diffused, the fluid is more like synovia, containing loose bodies. “ The bursas or ganglions which form about the sheaths of the ten-