584 THE GERM THEORY. of water); but even this is felt to be a somewhat uncertain process, because some mischievous particle, lurking in some interstice among the tissues, may possibly elude the action of the lotion, and subse- quently propagate its kind and spread putrefactive fermentation throughout the wound. For it is important to bear in mind that the acid applied to the interior has no persistent antiseptic effect, but is speedily dissipated, being partly washed away by the discharge and partly absorbed into the circulation. When, however, the wound is made by the surgeon himself on a previously unbroken integument (as in amputation) he has it in his power to prevent putrefactive organisms from ever entering it alive by operating in an antiseptic atmosphere, iu the form of a cloud of spray imbued with the acid. Richardson’s spray apparatus, as suggested for ether, with a solution Solution 1 to of acid one to forty, answering every purpose, while the sponges are rendered harmless by wringing them out of a watery solution, the fingers of the surgeon and his assistant having been dipped in the same, and the saw and other instruments smeared with oil containing a tenth part of the agent. The wound must be covered with a cloth dipped in the lotion during any periods of suspension of the spray, which should, with such exceptions, be continued throughout the entire process, including the securing of the vessels and the intro- duction of the stitches.”—Lister. “ For cases of compound fracture seen for the first time several hours after the accident I use a solution of one part of carbolic acid in five of spirit of wine, introducing it by means of a catheter and syringe.” — Lister, ‘ Lancet, ’ March 13th, 1S75. How to Lister further advises the use of catgut ligatures or sutures, prepared Pl'®Pal'e by steeping them for about two months in an emulsion made by gu ures an mixing one part of crystallised carbolic acid, deliquesced by means of water with five parts of olive oil, this emulsion being kept in a jar with a perforated diaphragm supported a little from the bottom of the jar, in order that the gut may rest upon it in the oil, the water sub- siding. He says it is as safe as any ligature, superior to wire, and does not act as a foreign body in the wound, the ends being absorbed. He has never known secondary haemorrhage to follow its use. During the insertion of the sutures, the spray is to be employed. “ At the completion of the operation it remains to carry out the other division of the antiseptic treatment, viz. to apply such an ex- ternal dressing as shall securely guard for the future against the penetration of septic fermentations from without. “ For this purpose the most convenient material I have yet arrived at is the antiseptic gauze, made by impregnating a cotton cloth of open texture with a mixture of carbolic acid one part, resin five parts, paraffin seven parts, in which the resin serves as a vehicle for the acid, while paraffin is added to prevent inconvenient adhesiveness.” “ This dressing, while it absorbs discharge, holds the antiseptic securely lodged in its fibres, where it is retained by the insoluble resin, and it is to this circumstance that it owes its superiority over most other porous applications. It is wrapped round the stump in about eight layers, and during the first few days, while there is a copious effusion of serum, it is well to surround it with some impermeable tissue to prevent the discharge from passing directly outwards, and to compel it to travel along the whole extent of the antiseptic invest- ligatures. -Antiseptic dressings. Gauze.