169 MALFORMATIONS OF PENIS. operation, the penis is to be kept constantly stretched to guard against subsequent retraction, and six months later, the second part of the operation should be carried out. The construction of a new urethra is a difficult matter, and must be carried out in stages. Duplay’s method is divided into three.—1st. The restoration of the urinary meatus ; 2nd, the creation of the new urethra from the meatus down to the hypospadic perineal opening; and 3rd, the reunion of the two portions of the urethra. The first stage may be done at the same time as the correction of Duplay’s the arching of the penis, and consists in simply paring the edges of operation, the glans penis and bringing them together by sutures round a catheter (Fig. 376, c). It is almost always successful. The second stage is to be ef- fected in the following manner:— The penis being held up, two longitudinal incisions are made on its inferior surface parallel to the median line, and extending from the glans penis to the peri- neal urethral opening, these inci- sions being bounded by two trans- verse ones (Fig. 376, d). Two I quadrilateral flaps are thus formed (a b, a' b'), which should be large enough when turned back to cover a catheter that has been previ- ously introduced into the urethra. The cutaneous surface of these flaps should next be turned to- wards the catheter and the raw surface exposed to view. The skin of the penis in con- tinuation of the transverse inci- sions is then by a little dissec- tion made to furnish two new flaps (c d, c' d’) for covering the raw exposed surface of the first flaps. « Lastly, the lower edge of the glans penis is vivified in the part which corresponds to the new channel. The flaps must now be united, their superior edges being stitched to the vivified glans and the two flaps on each side of the urethra, the superficial and deep, brought together with metallic or other sutures. (Fig. 376, e.) The third stage of the operation consists in the reunion of the two portions of urethra, and should be effected by paring the edges of the hypospadic orifice and bringing them together by sutures 'deep and superficial. After the operation the urine must be drawn off by means of a catheter, and the union of the parts is usually completed after three or four days. Fig. 376. Operations for periueo-scrotal hypospadias.