ON GUNSHOT ABDOMINAL INJURIES. 555 Wounds of the liver are attended with a large mortality, and are Wounds of always complicated. Shock and haemorrhage are the usual immediate hver. causes of death; but when life is prolonged, peritonitis. Longmore Very fatal, saw only one case of recovery in the Crimea; while Dr. Otis records 4 recoveries, in America, out of 32 cases of this form of injury. In Circular No. Ill of the Washington War Department 4 cases of reco- very out of 15 from this injury are recorded, and in one the gall- bladder was wounded. Wounds of the spleen are almost always fatal Of spleen, from haemorrhage; and are generally complicated with other injuries. Gunshot wounds of the stomach are not always fatal. They are Of stomach, made out to exist when the contents of the organ escape externally, or when, from the extent of wound, the viscus can be seen. They are always associated with vomiting of blood. Hennen records two good cases of recovery which occurred at Waterloo, and the well-known American case of Alexis St. Martin, reported by Beaumont, is another. Dr. Peters, of the United States Army, has also reported a case that oc- curred in the American war. Guthrie and Cooper give nine or ten others. When the wound is incised, it should be stitched up. Opium should Treatment, be administered with nutrient enemata. Nothing should be given by the mouth for some days. Gunshot wounds of the intestines are not necessarily fatal, although Gunshot instances of recovery are rare. Wounds of the large are not so bad as wounds of the small intestine. Haemorrhage, and, if not, perito- nitis, is the usual cause of death. Longmore relates one case in which recovery took place. Dr. Hamilton, of New York (1865), quotes eight cases of faecal fistula which terminated in recovery by natural processes, all having taken place in the late American war, and in the older writers many more might be found. Dr. Habershon has recorded a most interesting case of gunshot wound of the colon through the right loin, the patient dying four years subsequently from albuminuria (' Guy’s Reports,’ 1859). Treatment.—Absolute quiet is the most essential point to be Treatment, observed in these, as in all other eases of abdominal injuries. The recumbent position should be enforced and maintained under all cir- cumstances. Opium or morphia should also be given in repeated doses, no drug having a better infiuence in peritoneal inflammation. Absolute cleanliness of the wound should also be observed, but there should be no strapping or closing of the orifice. Simple nutritious food maybe allowed and, as the case progresses, solids may gradually be taken. Fcecal fistula} appear to have a tendency to close by themselves. In the American cases they gave, in general, but little trouble in their management (Circ. No. 6, S. G. 0., 1865). With regard to exploring the track of the wound the surgeon Exploration should never forget, says Lidell (‘American Quart.,’ 1867), “that in oi wound, the management of these cases, art, to be useful, must be the servant of nature, and must seek to do good by assisting her mistress in the efforts at repair, and not by the introduction of new and violent mea- sures which are liable to aggravate the original injury.” He believes that neither the finger nor any instrument should be used for ex- ploratory purposes, except in special cases. Dr. Otis, however, in Cir- cular No. Ill of the Washington War Department, issued in 1871, p. 87, says that “the mortality of these cases is so great as to furnish an Leparotomy.