CANCER OF THE BREAST. 250 When may be considered as a simple growth. On cancer of the breast. Infiltrating. Cystic. On the infiltrating cancer: its characters. the presence of an indurated mammary gland, wholly or in part, must always be regarded with suspicion, and, if the case he recent, I believe it to be an impossibility to form any certain opinion as to its true nature. If the induration of the gland be the only symptom, and is associated with a sharp or even dull pain, either a simple chronic inflammation of the gland may be indicated or the early condition of a cancer, and under such circumstances, it is as well to wait before giving any positive opinion. If, however, much time has already passed, say, many months, and no other symptoms have made their appearance, there is some ground for the hope that the enlarge- ment may be due to inflammation, since infiltrating cancers are not generally inactive—are not stationary, as a rule—and soon give rise to other symptoms, such as some, though it may be, slight enlarge- ment of the absorbent glands; some slight dimpling or drawing in of the skin, an important sign (Fig. 400); or, some more marked symptom such as infiltration of the integument or a retracted nipple. It should be remembered, however, that a retracted nipple is only an accidental symptom such as may be caused by several conditions, and is not by any means of itself characteristic of cancer. But if any or all of these symptoms show themselves soon after the first appearance of the lobu- lar enlargement of the mammary gland, an opinion as to the cancerous nature of the growth may be confidently expressed. If, on the other hand, none of these symptoms make their appearance, aud the indura- tion or infiltration of the lobes of the gland remains stationary, or shows some tendency towards improvement, the probability of the simple character of the disease gains ground. When this indura- tion of the mammary gland appears in a young subject, there will be no reason to suspect a cancer, and it should rather be regarded as the result of some slight inflammatory effusion. Under such cir- cumstances there will, generally, be some increase of pain after examination, but an absence of any other local symptom. There will probably be some irregularity of the catamenia and some signs of general excitability of the patient. But, as a local affection, there will be only the one symptom of induration of one or more lobes of the mammary gland, which, in the absence of all other signs, may with safety be regarded as inflammatory. The same argument holds good when the disease disappears at a later period of life, although suspicions of a cancer should rightly be excited; still, the positive diagnosis must be postponed till, by the lapse of time, some other symptoms such as those already mentioned make their appearance, to clear up all doubt, or by their absence, prove the innocent nature of the affection. Carcinoma of the Breast, or Cancer. This affection is found either as an infiltration of the gland, wholly or iu part, or as an independent tumour or tuber within the meshes of the gland—tuberous cancer. It may likewise be met with associated with cysts—cystic cancer, this being only a variety of the other forms. In the infiltrating form, the gland appears hard, inelastic, and incom- pressible; as the disease progresses, it seems to contract and to draw all the parts around together and gradually to infiltrate them. Iu this way the nipple often becomes drawn in or to one side. At times, after having been drawn in, it becomes infiltrated with the disease, and