63 INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. In doing this the greatest gentleness should he observed; to force fluid into the bladder by a syringe is dangerous, unless in skilled hands, while to introduce more than three or four ounces of fluid is unnecessary. The Ibest method is by means of the irrigator can or a piece of india-rubber Syphon tubing, two or there feet long, fitted to the top of the catheter after method the its introduction, and the gradual pouring of the water or solution besl‘ made warm through a glass funnel fitted to the other end. The tubing can be raised to increase the pressure of the fluid, or depressed accord- ing to the necessities of the case, the bladder resenting the slightest distension by its contraction, and the expulsion or elevation of the fluid into the funnel. By these means no harm can possibly accrue to an inflamed bladder, and the most atonic bladder can be emptied as with a syphon. (Pig. 321.) After the fluid has been introduced and left for two or three minutes, it should be withdrawn, and fresh fluid poured in where necessary, the funnel being depressed below the level of the bed for emptying the bladder. Anodyne solutions are said not to be of much Anodyne use in these cases, but I have been in the habit of introducing half a injections, grain, more or less, of morphia, with apparent advantage, after the washing out of the bladder. When the washing out of the bladder in- creases the irritation it should be discontinued. At times a double catheter is of use, the injection flowing down one side, and the contents of the bladder out pIG_ 321. .of the other. In the inflamed bladder associated with atony, the [Tt\ \ Treatment of tincture of the perchloride y cystitis with of iron is a valuable drug, atony, or the dilute nitro-muriatic acid given in twenty-mi- y X. nim or half-drachm doses three times a day; but, in a general way, alkalies are called for, the urine na- turally secreted being acid, and so as it is poured into the inflamed bladder, / becomes an irritant. The Cyv-- jj diet under all circum- ■; _ stances, should be nutri- j j (a tious but unstimulating, Nf'SV' \ alcohol being given care- ] djPSjSgS fully, according to the -**®1 1 patient’s powers. In all ' \ cases, however, of inflamed N, , ,V x bladder, the surgeon ought // iK to remember its cause,which Z3 is generally due to some -— C3 • obstruction to the flow of ^ urine or local cause of irri- tation; and for a cure, the removal of its cause is , T"' :—- essential Mode ol washing out the bladder. The irrigator essential. can may be substituted for the jug and hand