152 RETENTION OF URINE. Spasmodic stricture. Causes. Treatment. Chloroform. Bath. Opiate. Inflamma- lory stricture. Causes. him. In all these forty cases, spasm of the muscles of the urethra was the assigned cause. Retention in a child is generally from stone impacted in the urethra; in an adult, from stricture; and in an old man, from prostatic disease. Spasmodic Stricture as a cause of Retention. The existence of a true spasmodic stricture is no longer a subject of doubt. That the seat of the stricture is the membranous portion of the urethra, which is encircled by muscles, is also now generally acknow- ledged; and, that the usual exciting causes are exposure to wet or cold, and excess in drinking, many cases before me clearly prove. Anything, however, which can induce an altered or acid state of the urine is likely to be followed by this complication, gouty and rheumatic patients being particularly liable to such attacks. The treatment of such cases is not difficult; the simple passage of a large metallic catheter being the most expeditious and certain practice. The instrument should be well warmed and freely oiled, and then passed slowly, so as not to excite alarm or increase the spasm of the muscles. In skilful hands its introduction is not an operation of difficulty. If, however, the operator be foiled in his endeavours, he must be cautious not to employ force, which is never required and never justifiable. Chloroform should then be administered, and with a patient fully under its influence, all obstruction ceases, while the instrument will pass into the bladder. If there be an objection to the use of the anaesthetic, the old remedy of a hot hath cannot be too highly extolled; few patients suffering from simple retention failing to micturate when thus immersed; and the introduction of a catheter, moreover, is much facilitated. A full opiate is also an invaluable remedy, relieving the involuntary contraction of the bladder which is so painful in cases of retention, and thus re- moving one of the most constant causes of spasmodic stricture. The value of opium in these cases, according to some, cannot be upheld too strongly, indeed they assert that there is no case of retention of urine which will not yield to its benign influence, allowing either a natural relief or the introduction of a catheter. I am not disposed to go quite so far in this opinion, although the evidence of experience is generally in its favour, and, in cases of retention, it acts sometimes as a charm. The inhalation of chloroform I believe to be a preferable remedy—its action being more rapid and certain. If failure follow the application of these, other measures must be adopted; and without doubt the simplest, safest, and most expeditious practice is puncturing the bladder through the rectum. In a simple spasmodic stricture, however, such a necessity can scarcely arise. Inflammatory Stricture as a cause of Retention. It has been already shown, that in spasmodic stricture, exposure to wet or cold, and an altered condition of the urine produced either from excess of drinking, gout, or rheumatism are the chief exciting causes of an attack of retention; and if this be true, there can be no diffi- culty in understanding that a like result may be bi'ought about, and is more liable to be experienced, if the urethra itself should be the seat of an inflammatory notion. Retention of urine occasionally comes before