121 LITHOTOMY. along the groove, the neck of the bladder and prostate being freely divided when the stone is large. The finger is then passed into the bladder along the staff, the staff removed and forceps passed, the cal- culus being extracted in the usual way. As an ordinary operation, this is greatly inferior to the lateral. Konig’s statistics, as quoted by Poland, show it to be very unsuccessful. When the stone is very large, it may, however, be entertained. The high operation, or supra-pubic, is one of the oldest, and was Supra-pubic practised by Cheselden and Civiale. It was at one time supposed to operation, be the most direct and least dangerous operation, the only dangerous part involved in it being the peritoneum, which can readily be avoided. For large stones it may be entertained. The operation consists of three stages :— The first consists in exposing the anterior wall of the bladder by a Mode of vertical incision made in the median line above the pubes through performance, the parietes, with the patient on his back, his pelvis raised and bladder moderately distended with a 1 per cent, solution of carbolic acid or thymol of the temperature of the body. The second step is that of opening the bladder, and care should be observed that this opening is made in the median line and close to the symphysis. This is best done by transfixing the bladder where it is exposed, and opening it from below upwards, care being also observed that the wound in the abdominal parietes is carefully kept open with retractors. The third step is the removal of the stone by means of forceps. After the operation, the wound in the bladder should be brought together carefully with sutures, and the external wound closed above, a space being left below for drainage, and the case left to nature. The nriue should subsequently be drawn off at short intervals. The statistics of the operation are not quite satisfactory. Gross gives one death in four cases; Civiale, one in two; Humphry, of Cambridge, and Dulles, one in three. The latter author speaks highly of it (‘American Journal of Med. Science,’ July, 1875; April, 1878). He believes the operation to be deserving of more attention, and should receive a fairer trial than it has yet had. All these varieties of operations have been detailed, as exceptional cases of stone may be met with in which one or the other may be better than the lateral, but as a general operation, lateral lithotomy is the best, and of the modes of performing this operation, Key’s is the simplest and most successful. Causes of death after lithotomy. When patients die unrelieved with calculus, they generally do so from Causes of kidney disease, and in the majority of fatal cases of lithotomy, the death after same cause produces a like result. When kidney disease is not present lithot°m)’- any of the operations described for the removal of the stone, when per- formed with average skill, is likely to be successful. When kidney disease exists, any operation is likely to prove unsuccessful. These facts are fully illustrated in a paper I read in 1862 (Med. and Chir. Society) on the causes of death after lithotomy. The longer a stone remains in the bladder tbe greater are the proba- Prognosis, bihties of renal disease, and, consequently, the larger the stone the greater the risk.