DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. 343 to give rise to paralysis of the muscles supplied by them. I have seen, Paralysis as in one case, the parts supplied by the ulnar nerve permanently para- a result- lysed; and, in another, those supplied by the musculo-spiral. It is by no means uncommon to find the circumflex nerve so injured as to be followed by a most complete wasting of the deltoid muscle. In many cases, however, in which paralysis follows dislocation, recovery may May be eusue, and in a very marked example I saw in 1874, in which Jreo^vere paralysis of all the parts supplied by the radio-spiral nerve was most complete, recovery took place in fifteen months. The axillary artery may likewise be lacerated. Callender (St. Barth. Rep.,’ 1866) has recorded such a case; and Dr. R. Adams dl elJ (‘ Cyclo. Anat. and Phys.,’ art. “ Shoulder,” p. 416) another. In neglected dislocation of the shoulder it is always a difficult ques- Expediency tion to decide as to the expediency of attempting reduction. Sir °1(1re ucl"" A. Cooper used to say, that after twelve weeks’ rest, an attempt should dislocations not be made, and, in a certain sense, such an opinion is correct; but there are many cases of less standing in which the attempt would be wrong, and some few of much longer standing, in which it would be right. Where good movement exists after twelve weeks, there is little need for the attempt, unless under exceptional conditions. When bad move- ment exists, or none at all, the attempt may be made, for cases are on record in which reduction has been effected after a year or more. Fracture and dislocation of the head of the humerus occasionally occur Fracture with together, and, when the dislocation can be reduced at once, as it may by means of chloroform, so much the better. When it cannot, the fracture humerus, must be treated and the dislocation left alone, good movement at times being the result. In Fig. 442 such a complication existed. The preparation was taken from a gentleman, ret. 64, three months after the injury before union had taken place at the seat of fracture. Compound dislocations of the shoulder are grave accidents, and, when Compound the soft parts have been much injured, the best plan is probably to o|3'i°gat'oris resect the head of the bone, although when the wound is limited or shoulder, clean and reduction easy, it may be right to treat the case as one of wounded joint. Dislocation of the Elbow. This accident is most com- mon in early life, and accord- ing to the Middlesex Hospital table (‘Holmes’s Syst., vol. ii.) more than half of the cases oc- curred in boys between the ages of five and fifteen. Dr. Hamil- ton found 19 in children under fourteen years of age, out of 33 cases. At Guy’s, these pro- portions are not quite so large, for out of 13 cases, 6 were in subjects between ten and twenty; 3 between twenty and thirty; 3 between thirty and forty, and one between forty and fifty. In only one case was Fig. 442. Coracoid Jlrromlon. On dislocations of the elbow. Dislocation of the head of the humerus asso- ciated with fracture. Prep. HU3®, Guy’s Hosp. Mus. the subject a woman.