MALFORMATIONS OF GENITAL ORGANS. 166 An unusual case. Malforma- tions. Varieties. Extroversion of bladder or epispadias. away, strange symptoms appear. Thus some years ago, I was consulted by a gentleman whose penis, when turgid, arched laterally, the cavernous body of one side having atrophied and become a mere gristly mass. This condition had followed an injury received in coitus many years before. Some great induration had existed for months in the cavernous body that had subsequently atrophied. More recently, I have seen a married man, about 60, who a year before “ missed his mark ” in coitus, and hurt his penis; an induration fol- lowed, and at the present time where this existed there is a deficiency of tissue, and when the penis becomes turgid it is never straight, but bent laterally. A singular case of injury to the penis was seen at Guy’s in 1867 in • the practice of Mr. Hilton. It was in a man aet. 50, who when nineteen, had had his penis bitten by a stallion; after the accident some little bleeding occurred, and a fleshy cylindrical body, an inch and a quarter long and one third of an inch in dia- meter, projected from the urethral orifice. It was evi- dently the corpus spongiosum which had been divided by the horse behind the glans penis and had become everted. When the patient was admitted, the corpus spongiosum urethrae terminated abruptly about one inch behind the glans penis, and the urine flowed by the side of the protrusion. (Fig. 373.) Malformations of the Urino-genital Organs. These malformations of the urino-genital organs are more common in the male than in the female subject, and show themselves in many degrees of severity. Thus, when the upper surface of the urinary passage from the orifice of the urethra to the fuudus of the bladder is deficient, a case of extroversion of the bladder or ectopion vesica is said to exist; when the urethra alone is deficient at its upper part, epis- padias is the term employed. Some authors apply the latter also to the more complete condition. With this imperfect condition, a sepa- ration of the pubic bones frequently exists, as well as some malforma- tion of the scrotum, this sac being often bifid though containing the testicles in proper position. At times a hernia complicates the case. When no testes are present and the scrotum is bifid, the question as to sex often arises, for in the female the vagina is frequently absent, or so small as more nearly to represent a urethra than a vagina. In extroversion of the bladder, the posterior wall of the bladder appears as a red mucous mass below the umbilicus which is lost in the upper border of the deformity. At the lower part of its surface, the orifices of the ureters may be often seen as small nipple-like projec- tions; and in some instances, these orifices are lost in the pelvic chink, although they may be brought into view by depressing the fissured penis or what represents the penis, for this will probably appear only Fig. 373. Corpus spongiosum projecting from urethra after injury.