RETENTION OF URINE. 153 our notice as a result and concomitant of gonorrhoea. The causes of the retention are evidently compound, viz. spasmodic stricture added to the mechanical obstruction produced by the oedema of an acute inflam- mation combining to produce the result. The treatment required to afford relief must he based upon the Treatment, appreciation of these two conditions which have combined to cause the effect. The retention is in a measure mechanical, and must be met by mechanical treatment; but it is also functional, and, as a conse- quence, must be so considered. The symptoms being urgent, time is, therefore, a great object; and if called to a case, there are few surgeons who would not at once attempt to pass a catheter. Let the surgeon choose an instrument of medium size. No. 4 or 5 being the best, taking care that it be well warmed and Catheterism. oiled, and then with gentleness and yet with firmness the obstruction may be overcome; arte non vi must be the guide to action, as force is to be condemned as much in these cases as it was in the preceding. If these means fail, a hot bath and a full opiate are the soundest Opiates, remedies. They relieve the local turgescence of the passage, and also the obstruction, and with it the associated spasm. In some instances the introduction of a piece of ice into the rectum serves a like pur- pose. The use of chloroform in these cases cannot be recommended, as it merely relieves the spasm but does not alter the condition upon which the spasm depends, viz., the inflammation. When these means fail, which is not commonly the case, some operative measure may be required, which will be dwelt upon in another page. Retention of urine following a blow in the perineeum.—Under this Retention heading it is not my intention to allude to cases of ruptured urethra, from ljl°" in as this condition has already been considered. But cases of retention Pcrimeum- occasionally come under notice which follow a simple contusion in the perinamm. I possess three such records—two in children aged three and seven respectively, and one in an adult aged twenty-nine. In none of these cases could haemorrhage or other symptom of rup- tured urethra be made out. The retention followed the contusion, and was caused by some spasmodic condition of the passage excited by the injury. In all the cases, the simple passage of a catheter was the only treatment, and, with the relief of the symptoms convalescence followed. Retention of urine from the pressure of an abscess in the perineeum Retention must be mentioned, as cases of retention from such a cause occasionally from come under notice, while abscess about the rectum is not uufrequently Pressure °f associated with such a difficulty. It should be treated by opening the '*>SCC3S' abscess. Paralysis of the bladder from any cause situated either in the Retention organ itself or associated with spinal disease, is a common cause of fr°m retention, and the same complication may be found with fever or any Pj!r?'/s*s of other constitutional condition in which the vital powers of the patieut adder- have been much reduced, and the nervous system has, as a conse- quence, become unable to answer to its accustomed stimulus. Re- tention of urine is also met with as a symptom of peritonitis, local or general, from traumatic stricture, or, as a result of some’ other abdominal disease. To prevent any error being perpetrated, however, it is enough for the surgeon to remember, tlint this complication may be produced by the causes enumerated.