CHRONIC ORCHITIS. 205 not seem desirable to administer mercurials in any shape, and, under such circumstances, iodine may he substituted in the form of the iodide iodide of of potassium iu three or four-grain doses, gradually increased to ten or potassium, twelve, combined with half-drachm doses of the syrup of the iodide of iron in infusion of quassia, three times a day. Locally, strapping, or rather pressure, should still be enforced. In hospital practice, this treat- ment has been of great value; by it, steadily persevered in for six or eight weeks, even the worst of cases may be expected to yield, the organ gradually becoming softer and more natural in sensation and shape, and at last resuming its normal condition. In the gouty form of orchitis which can he recognised or sus- pected by the symptoms already quoted, the administration of col- Colchicum. chicum is very beneficial. It should be given in small doses, and continued for several weeks. The acetic extract in half-grain doses, with Dover’s powder is the best form, and with it a cure may generally be guaranteed. This form of disease is easily reduced when early recognised. It is more liable, however, than other forms to relapses, but less so to disorganisation and subsequent atrophy. If there be sudden accessions of pain in the part, with other evidences of some fresh inflammatory attack, the application of a few leeches with hot fomentations is very serviceable, but these conditions are uncommon. When vaginal hydrocele co-exists with the inflamed gland—a fre- Attend to quent complication of the syphilitic variety—it is a good practice to hydrocele, draw off the fluid, to enable the surgeon to apply his pressure with more certainty and better effect. It is of no use to attempt to cure the hydrocele itself, as it must be remembered that the hydrocele is the direct consequence of the diseased testis, and £hat it is of little use to treat the effect of a diseased condition and not its cause. Remove the latter, and the former will probably disappear; cure the orchitis, and the hydrocele will generally depart. I have the records of a case which passed under my care for treat- ment, where by some oversight this attempt had been made, and the hydrocele was tapped and injected with iodine ou three different occa- sions, without success. Under the subsequent treatment, the chronic orchitis disappeared, and with it the hydrocele. It is not always desirable, nor is it possible in a large proportion of Rest, cases, to keep the patient absolutely at rest during the process of treatment. In some it is advisable to do so as much as possible, particularly when the patient experiences more pain and inconve- nience when walking or moving about, but, in the majority of cases, it is sufficient to keep the parts well supported by an elastic bandage or strapping. In the consideration of the treatment of chronic orchitis it has been stated, that a good recovery may generally be secured by the means which have been suggested, when the disease has been taken in hand at an early period of its existence; that is, when not more than five or six weeks have been allowed to elapse. But in case of longer stand- p , ing, the prognosis is not so favourable either as regards the removal ch™on£81S ° of the disease, or the subsequent integrity of the part as a seminal 01'cl“bs. gland. These remarks apply more particularly to the syphilitic form of the affection: for, if of long standing, the fibrinous matter