LITHOTRITY. 102 them, without altering the axis of the shaft, or otherwise disturbing the central position of the instrument. Thus, in almost all positions, the stone is seized sideways by the blades of the lithotrite, and very rarely by their extremities. If no stone is felt, he then turns them, opened, to the left in a similar manner, and then closes them. Observe, that the blades are always to be opened before they are turned, for this reason; if the turn is first made and the blades are subsequently opened, the chance is that the male blade, as it is withdrawn, will move the stone away ; whereas, if the blades are inclined rvhile open, the stone, if there, is almost certainly seized. This is one of the many apparently minute Fig. 345. Operation of litliotrity. but extremely important points of which systematic litliotrity is made up. To return, it is very rare that the stone will elude the search thus far, hut if it does, depress the handle of the lithotrite half an inch or so, which raises the blades very slightly from the floor of the bladder, and turn them another 45° to the left, bringing, in fact, the blades horizontally to the left; close; if successful, turn them gently Five positions to horizontal in the right, and close. These five positions vertical, in which r;„^t an(j ieft incline, right and left horizontal, explore the bladder fully, detected^ bC middle, right aud left, and will almost certainly find any stone of mode- rate size in a healthy bladder. The object is, at the same time, strictly to avoid communicating any jerk to the instrument or to the bladder. In all these movements, if properly executed, there has been barely contact of the lithotrite with the vesical walls; at all events, no pressure, nothing to provoke undue pain, or cause contractions of the bladder. If, however, there is an enlarged prostate, causing an emi- nence at the neck of the bladder, or depression behind it, or the stone is very small, or we are exploring for some fragment, at the close of the case, which is suspected to have eluded previous search, the blade may be reversed so as to point downwards to the floor, and the object sought may then often be secured with ease. If seeking for a