COMPLICATIONS OF STRICTURE. 143 need hardly say, however, that it is very rare for the surgeon to he able to trace the urethral passage through the stricture. Complications of Stricture. I have thus far dwelt upon permeable and impermeable organic Complica- stricture and its treatment, but have made only passing reference to its complications. I propose now to consider these points more fully, in- cluding perineal abscess, extravasation of urine, and perineal fistula, all of which are the direct results of stricture, and of local or diffused urinary extravasation. Extravasation of urine is a complication which will almost necessa- rily follow a neglected stricture, and the pathological process by which it is produced has been already described. It is one of the means which nature adopts to find an outlet for urine when the natural pas- sage has become so contracted as to forbid its flow, and a complication of great danger. It requires in its treatment, moreover, great decision on the part of the surgeon; the effect of retained urine upon any tissue of the body, except those naturally adapted for its contact, being gene- rally followed by sloughing. The early detection, therefore, of the be- ginning of an extravasation is important, and requires a few practical remarks. If a patient, the subject of a stricture, appears before a surgeon suf- Perineal fering from more or less severe febrile symptoms, a pnrched skin, dry tongue, and a rapid irritable pulse, with or without an occasional rigor, Symptoms, attention should always bej directed to the question of extravasation and a careful examination mnde of the perinmum and the parts around, whether there exist any local symptoms sufficient to have attracted the notice of the patient or not, when a circumscribed and almost solid mass will probably be discovered in the region of the bulb, which on firm pressure will be painful. The patient will frequently state that this existed for some weeks and cannot be the cause of all his symptoms. The surgeon, however, must not be misled, since this circumscribed mass is in effect a urinary abscess, the result of a local and limited extrava- sation, and the symptoms will only disappear when its contents have been evacuated. What treatment, then, should be pursued ? If the urethra be ex- Treatment, amined, the stricture will almost to a certainty be found much con- tracted, and the stream of urine very small. Some discharge from the urethra may perhaps be observed, a little of the pus contained within the abscess behind the stricture making its way by the natural pas- sage. If an instrument be made to pass the stricture, it may then only enter the dilated, ulcerated, aud suppurating cavity of the abscess situated behind, and it will be a matter of difficulty to find the vesical end of the urethra, and, as a consequence, the instrument will be passed onwards into the bladder in only exceptional cases. The abscess, however, must be opened and its contents evacuated ; Abscess to be for if not, it will to a certainty increase, and being bound down by laid open- the perineal fascia, pass backwards aud spread mischief around the neck of the bladder, and, in the cellular tissue of the pelvis, to the serious injury of the sufferer. Yet, at the same time the treatment of the stricture is to be remem- Stricture to bered, as no treatment can be regarded as scientific if it be not directed be atteutlcd to remedy the stricture, which is the cause of the abscess. l0'