493 LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. organization of fibrinous coagula, but evidence is wanting to prove Opinions this view, for roost, as pointed out by Rainey, contain ill-formed carti- ^speeting lage-cells and ossific matter and true bone-lacun;e are at times ^ture. present (Fig. 565). Paget (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1870) has recently . given good evidence of the truth of Teale’s suggestion, that some of these bodies are really sequestra, and that “just as a blow on bone or tooth may induce necrosis and exfoliation without signs of destructive inflammation, so may it with articular cartilage; and the characteristics of these cases will be that after injury to a previously healthy joint, a loose body is found in it, having the shape, and general aspect, and texture of a piece of articular car- i tilage with or without some portion of sub- i jacent bone, and with its cartilage-corpuscles arranged after the manner of the articular cartilage.” Dr. Adams, of Dublin, connects their presence with osteo-arthritis. A report upon these bodies, wfith micro- 1 scopical drawing kindly etched for me by Dr. Goodhart, will help to the solution of some of these points:— “ The term ‘ loose cartilage ’ is applied to two conditions which are Dr. Good- totally distinct; the one where a portion of the normal articular 'Iarl’s rePurt- cartilage has been detached by injury to the joint, and lies loose in its cavity; the other where bodies of more or less consistence, often carti- laginous or bony, are found, and which are new formations. “ Recent observations seem to show that the former of these two is by no means of infrequent occurrence, but it possesses no pathological interest whatever, and needs no description. A very good specimen of this form is to be found in the Guy’s Hospital Museum, 134463. The latter, however, has frequently excited discussion among pathologists; so we will give in a few words what appears to be its usual composition, and our conclusions therefrom as to its mode of origin. Roughly speaking, loose cartilages are generally more or less smooth, of greyish colour, and look, as their name suggests, like pieces of cartilage; but they may be nodulated and composed almost entirely of bony material (Fig. 565 and Prep. 956b, Hunterian Mas.). Even in that case, however, they have a thin film of fibrous material over them still, obscuring the bone, and rendering them cartilaginous lookiug on their external surface. “ The cases (five in all) that we have had an opportunity of examin- [ ing have also shown more or less calcareous matter; they wrere never | pure cartilage. One case in the Guy’s Museum (1344s0), while appearing * cartilaginous, cut with a creaking sensation, and under the microscope 1 irregular deposits of calcareous matter and bone were found in all i directions in its substance. In another (Hunterian Museum Cat., ! 957a) one surface is tuberculated and composed of hard nodules of k ivory-like bone, while in a concavity thus formed is a cartilaginous | mass. The bone on the surface in this specimen can only be compared ; to the nodulated excrescences found at the margins of the articular I cartilages in cases of osteo-arthritis. “The microscopical characteristics vary in each to a certain extent; i some show fibro-cartilage, calcareous matter, and bone; others are en- Fig. 565. Vail size Section of loose cartilage removed from knee. Prep. 134-110, Guy’s Mus.