457 DISEASES OF KNEE-JOINT. undergo a natural cure and much less a cure by anchylosis, than any other articulation. This is probably to be explained anatomically by the existence of the inter-articular fibro-cartilages, which, while in a healthy joint they tend to keep it healthy, in a diseased, by forbid- Presence of ding the contact of the two bones, render it difficult for anchy- inter- losis to take place, since they must be partially at least got rid cartilages, of by some suppuration or other change before anchylosis can be secured. When diseased, there is no joint, however, in which the changes can Diseased he better recognised, or the clinical evidence of disease in the synovial changes membrane or bones be made out with greater facility. recognised. 4 In synovitis, acute, sub-acute, or chronic, the synovial sac becomes x,ocaj distended; the natural dimples or depression which in health exist on symptoms of either side of the patella soon disappear, and in their places a bulging synovitis, of the synovial membrane will be both seen and felt (Fig. 546) The patella, too, becomes pressed forwards, and, on palpation, may be felt to float as upon a water bed, and readily made on pressure to dip upon the condyles of the femur which lie beneath. The extensor muscles above the patella likewise will be raised by the distended sac, and the soft parts below the patella down to its ligament will project; distinct fluctua- hs. 616. tion not only being felt across the joint from side to side, but in an oblique direction from above downwards. Acute synovitis of the knee, except as a part of so-called rheumatic fever or pyaemia, is rarely met .with, unless as the result of a wound or the extension of suppurating disease into the cavity. It is a most severe affection, and unless speedily arrested by ice, leeching, or those means suggested in the chapter on wounds of joints, ends in the de- struction of the joint, and too often in the forfeiture of the patient’s life. When, after suppuration, life is spared Repair after and the joint goes on to repair, anchylosis suppuration, may he secured, and in puerperal, rheumatic, or pytemic cases, this result is not rarely met with, the joint undergoing the whole series of changes in a few months. This subject, however, will receive attention in the chapter on the suppuration of joints. In sub-acute synovitis, a far more common form than the acute. Subacute the local symptoms are the same, but the constitutional are far less 3-vnovitls' severe, whether the disease be caused by some local injury or by some general cause, such as gout, gonorrhoea, rheumatism, or syphilis ; it moreover almost always terminates in recovery. To chronic synovitis the same remarks are applicable. This affection Chronic is often known as hydrops articuli or simple dropsy of the joint, the synovitis, chief symptom being an excess of fluid. In many of these cases, how- ever, this effusion into the joint is associated with other changes such as are known to exist in what is now recognised as a special affection Osteo —the chronic rheumatic or osteo-arthritis. In it the joint becomes arthritis, so stretched by the effusion, and the ligaments at last become so useless Acute synovitis. May suppurate. Appearance of knee-joint in synovitis.