DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 360 Treatment of dislocation of the patella. Dislocation of the patella edgeways. Treatment thereof. Treatment.—Reduction is readily effected usually by raising the heel of the limb to relax the extensor muscles of the thigh, and manipu- lating the displaced bone into its position, the elevation of its depressed edge being generally enough to allow the muscles to restore it to its right place. A splint should then be applied, as well as a bag of ice for a few days till all inflammatory action has subsided, the knee being strapped up subsequently for a month or more, to give time for the ligaments to unite firmly. These dislocations, however, are very prone to recur on the slightest cause, and many patients are obliged to wear for life a firm leather knee-cap to guard against such a contingency. Dislocation of the bone edgeways is a very uncommon accident. I have seen only one such instance; and in it the patella appeared to show its articular facet inwards, its inner edge presenting forwards beneath the stretched skin. It was in a middle-aged woman, and produced by a direct blow upon the knee from a fall off a chair. Mayo has recorded an instance in which the bone had turned almost1 round. This dislocation is readily known by the peculiar aspect of the joint. Treatment.—In my own case, reduction was effected with ease on raising the leg and turning the patella into its right position with the fingers. Flower only succeeded on bending the knee, after chloroform had been given. Cases have been recorded where reduction was impos- sible, even after the subcutaneous division of the tendon and ligament that is attached to it and other rough means, but these were employed before chloroform was introduced, which must be their excuse. Under an anaesthetic, it is probable, that by manipulation, the bone will usually be reduced, if not, it had better be left alone. Some sudden muscular effort might be of service. Dislocation of the Knee-joint. Varieties. Diagnosis. Dislocation of the Knee-joint. This accident can only occur from great violence, the ligaments that bind the bones together being very strong; yet it does occur, the tibia being displaced backwards,forwards, or laterally. These disloca- tions are found in every degree of completeness. When partial, no com- plication, as a rule, exists, and the lateral is usually of this nature; when complete, the soft part about the joint and the fibrous tissues within, are often so injured as to render it a great question whether the joint, or even the limb, can be saved. The backward and forward dislocations are usually of this kind. When the popliteal artery or vein is injured or ruptured, amputation of the limb may be called for, this necessity being rendered more than probable when the circulation through the vessels is not speedily restored after the reduction of the dislocation, or, when Fig. 464. Pal elltt JSxth condyle of femur Dislocation of the tibia and fibula forwards.