486 EXCISION OE THE SHOULDER-JOINT. Harwell’s description of the operation of excision of ankle. On the treatment of suppuration of the shoulders. Results of excision satislactory. Examples of success. lower three inches of the posterior edge of the fibula. When it has reached the lower end of the malleolus, it forms an angle and runs down- ward and forward to within about half an inch of the base of the outer metatarsal hone. The angular flap is reflected forward, the fibula about two inches above the malleolus is thus sufficiently cleared of soft parts to allow cutting forceps to be placed over it, when the bone can then be nipped in two and carefully dissected out, leaving uncut the tendons of the peronei longus and brevis. The foot must then be turned over. A similar incision should he made on the inner side, the portion in the foot terminating over the projection of the inner cunei- form bone. The flap ought then to be turned back, and the sheaths of the flexor digitorum and posterior tibial tendons exposed, the knife being kept close to the bone, avoiding the artery and nerve. The internal lateral ligament should be severed carefully close to the bone; and the foot is now twisted outwards, -when the astragalus and tibia will present at the inner wound. A narrow- bladed saw inserted between the tendons into the inner wound will pro- ject through the outer. The lower end of the tibia, and then the top of the astragalus, should be sawn off in a proper direction. The only vessel that may require tying is one of the lower branches of the peroneal artery. The wound can be closed with sutures, except that part opposite the breach of osseous matter; and the leg and foot placed in a splint with a foot-board and cold water applied. Mr. Hancock points out the superiority of total over partial excision of the joint. Mr. Hey, of Leeds, in 1766, was the first surgeon who resected the lower ends of the tibia and fibula for compound dislocation, and Moreau, in 1792, for disease. Hancock, however, was the first to resect the joint as a whole. This operation has grown in favour during the last few years, and in select cases is doubtless beneficial. ON SUPPURATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. Suppuration of the shoulder-joint is as successfully treated by free incisions into and the removal of necrosed bone from the joint as the same affection of any other articulation, and only when this treatment has failed or is inapplicable are more severe measures required. Excision of the Shoulder-joint, or rather of the head of the humerus, is an excellent operation in gunshot wounds of the joint, in compound dislocation, or in cases of disease where a cure by natural processes has failed after judicious treatment, owing either to the extent of disease in the bone, or the general feebleness of the patient’s powers. “ The ultimate results of excision of this joint, whether for injury or disease, are very satisfactory,” says Hodges, but they are not more so than the ultimate results of "a cure by natural processes, even with anchylosis; for whatever may be the capabilities of an arm after excision, they are equalled after a natural cure. Under both circumstances, in the majority of cases almost every movementcan be effected except any over- hand one, since the arm cannot be raised above the shoulder. A man whose shoulder I excised fourteen years ago was a coachman in 1872 and could drive a pair of horses with ease. A man upon whom Mr Key operated was subsequently able to carry on his occupation as a ham- merman at a large engineer’s; and another case operated upon by the same surgeon twenty-one years before, in June, 1869, could “shoe horses with any man,” and, as a blacksmith felt no want in his arm. j In gunshot injuries to the shoulder, excision is now a recoguised