URINARY CALCULI. 84 Effects produced. Vesical calculi. Foreign bodies as nuclei. How concretion results. Urinary calculi of two classes : urates, phosphates. side, with retraction of the testis, and these continue till the stone reaches the bladder, when a sudden relief is felt. When calculi accumulate in the kidney and increase in size, inflam- mation, suppuration, and even the entire destruction of the kidney, may ensue; although it is remarkable to what an extent one kidney may be destroyed without giving rise to any symptoms. On the other hand, severe symptoms may appear for a time and subside, either to re-appear months or years later, or not at all. In exceptional cases, a renal calculus may be discharged externally through the loin with suppuration; Dr. Cayley showed such a specimen at the Pathological Society, 1874. A stone may be impacted in the ureter, and not rarely at its vesical orifice, when it will give rise to renal symptoms by obstruction, &c. After a stone has reached the bladder, it may be discharged with the urine or become fixed in the urethra and cause obstruction; or, it may rest in the bladder and increase, and then require surgical treatment. It is probable that most vesical calculi have a renal origin, and that some small nucleus of either uric acid or oxalate of lime forms in the kidney and passes downwards into the bladder, where the urine super- saturated with these constituents deposits them upon the renal calculus, and increases its size. Stones thus formed have been called primary calculous formations. When a foreign body has been introduced into the bladder, or a stone has descended into it and sets up much bladder irritation or cystitis, the phosphatic salts of the urine are deposited upon its surface, and stones thus formed are, therefore, phosphatic. When urine is retained in the bladder and decomposes, either as a consequence of cystitis following paralysis, diseased prostate, urethra, or a new growth, its earthy constituents are thrown down and phosphatic calculi or con- cretions are formed, such deposits being known as secondary calculous formations. How far these latter may increase so as to form stones is yet an open question. All these chemical constituents, however, require to be held together by a kind of cement: “ Marcet referred it to the mucous secretion of the bladder; Fourcroy and Vauquelin to albumen, and sometimes to gelatine with an admixture of urea; Berzelius, however, could not determine whether it was composed of fibrin, albumen, gaseous matter, or mucus; Brande considered it to consist of a mixture of gelatine with urea; Scliarling holds that the smaller calculi are always en- veloped by a layer of mucus, albumen, or some other organic matter, the flocculi of which entangle and ultimately determine the crystalli- sation of the more insoluble ingredients of the urine; and Dr. Hoskins, as quoted by Gross, extends this view to the minutest particle of the • concretion.’1—Coulson. Urinary calculi, says Poland, may be arranged like the deposits into two distinct classes. The first will include calculi of uric acid and the urates, with their modifications the oxalates, xanthic and cystic oxide (Dr. G. O. Rees regarding the oxalate of lime as uric acid or urates, altered after secretion) ; the second, the phosphatic calculi. A third class may be added, consisting of the rare calculi of carbonate of lime, the fibrinous, the uro-stealith, and the siliceous formations, other chemical ingredients being present, such as organic matters, carbonate of magnesia, silica, oxide of iron, benzoate of ammonia, oxalate of