PATHOLOGY OF JOINT DISEASES. 443 served since has led me to doubt its accuracy; indeed, additional expe- rience has confirmed its truth. I am not about to enter, however, into a minute description of the different changes, for they can be read elsewhere; but it may suffice for my present purpose to remind the reader that the fatty degeneration of the articular cartilages is found Patty in joints that have been deprived of their natural functions from any ^“£rua£°n cause—from non-use in the majority of cases, but in many from bad cartilage, nutrition—that it is found in common with the same change in the bones or other tissues. This fatty degeneration can be recognised with tolerable facility by the naked eye, for the cartilage so affected, instead of possessing its natural white pearly aspect, will appear some- what transparent, with an undulating, unequal, although smooth, sur- face. It will, when cut, feci softer than usual, and may be three or four times its natural thickness. At times it may even be “ pulped” by firm pressure with the finger, and be separated from the bone with more than usual facility. Microscopically also it 'will present character characteristic features. The natural cartilage-corpuscles will have under become changed into fat- and granule-cells in various degrees, and the microscope, hyaline matrix will be filled with cavities varying from the healthy standard to large spaces. These spaces moreover will be filled with the elements of fatty degeneration, into which the healthy corpuscles will have changed. This fatty degeneration takes place in most joints that have not been used, but rarely from disease of the joint itself. When however, a joint so changed becomes the subject of inflammation, dis- organization of the articulation rapidly follows, for such a degenerated tissue has no power of resisting disease, and disappears when attacked by it rapidly. The fibrous degeneration of the articular cartilage is a disease of a Fibrous peculiar character. I believe it to be associated with only one disease degeneration ^ v qt fvrripiiljit of a joint, which is “ osteo-arthritis.” It is very gradual in its progress cartilage, and not characterised by any definite symptoms. It can be recognised pathologically in its earliest stage by the loss of the natural glistening aspect of the cartilage of a joint, the smooth surface of which dis- appears and looks rough. Small fissures involving more or less of its thickness next appear, which sometimes extend down to the hone, and, as a rule, are thicker in the centre, they occasionally radiate outwards. The cartilage seems gradually to become thin, and after a time to disappear, exposing the articular surface of the bone, which Appearance probably will have undergone the calcareous degeneration. Micro- UI!der scopically, the principal change that is seen in this disease is the gra- micro8coPe- dual alteration of the hyaline structure into fibre. The cartilage-cor- puscles at the first will be found interspersed between these fibres, but, at a later date, to have changed into granules. At the last stage nothing but fibres may be found, and when this condition exists, the total and rapid disappearance of the structure will not be far distant. The granular. degeneration of the articular cartilage is the most Granular important affection of this tissue. It is the one most commonly degeneration found in joint affection, and seems to be the direct consequence 0f of ai:ticular a perverted nutrition in the bone or synovial membrane from dis- cartiUage- ease of these structures. Though of a simple nature, it shows itself in many ways, and, without microscopical investigation, must have appeared unintelligible. In its different forms It has doubtless led good observers to describe it as an ulceration of car-