522 EXOSTOSIS. Periostenl exostoses. Ungual exostoses. Treatment. Intracranial exostoses. Statistics. of different sizes on both tibia? and both hands, one humerus, one radius, and ilium ; and in two patients, 9 and 16 years of age re- spectively, five bones were so affected. Some exostoses have a periosteal origin, the result of organized inflam- matory products; when they are usually diffused. Fig.584 showsthis well, and was taken from a patient of my father’s, the late Mr. T. E. Bryant. Fig. 584. Periosteal exostosis. Prep. 111!60, Guy’s IIosp. Mus. Ungual exostoses deserve a special notice, since they are even now too often mistaken for what is called an ingrowing toe-nail. They are generally found on the distal phalanx of the great toe (Fig. 56, page 180, vol. i), but Prep. 1287, Guy’s Museum, shows a specimen from the little toe, and I have had under care two cases in which an exostosis grew from the ungual phalanx of the thumb, and one in which it was attached to the index-finger. Liston, in 1825, first drew attention to the nature of these cases. The osteophytes and the outgrowths of osteo-arthritis are not classed amongst the exostoses. Treatment.— When surgical interference is called for, nothing but the removal of these growths can be entertained, their bases being well levelled down to the bone or even scooped out. When, however, they are placed near joints, this practice should be well considered. In a case in which an exostosis projected from the inner condyle of the knee I divided its base subcutaneously with a chisel, and pressed it back into the popliteal space, where it remained without giving trouble. In cranial exostosis, this operation may not only be difficult but im- possible ; still the attempt, wherever it can, should be made, for many successful attempts have ended in procuring the death of the exostosis and its subsequent exfoliation. In such a case, treated by Mr. Cock, where the removal of the whole from the orbit was impossible from its hardness, a part was removed, and what remained subsequently died and sloughed out. Intra-cranial exostoses are rarely made out during life, and are at times associated with epilepsy. The following analysis of 120 cases of exostoses will show the seat of these growths. 45 were tabulated by my colleague, Mr. Birkett, in ‘ Guy’s Reports;’ and the remainder are from my private notes. Cases of epulis are excluded. Frontal bone . . 3 Clavicle ... 3 Tibia .... 18 Upper jaw ... 1 Humerus ... 15 Fibula .... 4 Lower jaw ... 3 Ulna .... 1 Patella ... 1 Bodies of cervical Radius .... 2 Tarsal bone . . 1 vertebrae ... 1 Fingers ... 5 Metatarsal . . 1 Sacrum .... 1 Ungual phalanx of Ungual phalanx Ribs 3 thumb ... 2 of great toe 25 Ilium 1 Femur . - . .18 Sole of foot . . 1 Scapula .... 10