Rule respecting operation. Treatment o suppuration of hip-joint. Free incision Excision of Inp. Cases favorable for excision. When presence of dead hone cannot be made out. 474 EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. attempt to obtain a natural cure, even if it may be gained, when by excision an equally good if not better result can be secured in a shorter time. And a third looking upon both forms of practice as too protracted and uncertain, will remove the diseased parts by amputation, under the conviction that a more certain result as well as rapid recovery will be secured by such a process. To lay down any definite rules upon operative interference in joint disease generally, is consequently an impossibility, since each joint has its own surgery. It may, however, be stated as a starting point, that no surgical ope- rative interference is justifiable unless a joint has suppurated or become disorganized; and that amputation should only be thought of when all minor measures are inapplicable, and it is necessary to remove the disease to save life. The larger the joint the greater the dangers of operative interference. The Treatment of Suppuration of the Hip.joint. In the treatment of a suppurating hip-joint as of any other, it is most important to ensure a free vent for all discharge, as pent-up matter is always injurious, and with this view a free incision into an abscess connected with the hip, or the free opening of a sinus through which pus slowly flows is sound practice. In the residual abscesses of repairing joint disease, it is well, however, not to incise unless they show a tendency to increase, since many often dry up sponta- neously. When interfered with the pus should be drawn off with the aspirator. On the Removal of Necrosed Bone from and Excision of the Hip-joint. When in a suppurating hip-joint the presence of dead bone can be made out, there can be no question about the propriety, nay, necessity for its removal; and if this can be effected by means of a free incision, nothing more is needed; when the os innominatum is involved, there is no reason against the removal of the sequestrum, since it is certain that so long as dead bone remains to keep up irritation, a cure by natural processes is impossible. An operation undertaken upon the hip-joint, under these circumstances, is scarcely more than any severe operation for necrosed bone, and in all probability is not more dangerous. The joint as a joint has to a certainty disappeared altogether, and a free incision into it will hardly add to the dangers of the case. In a large number of cases, however, this cannot be done, and under such circumstances, when a cure by natural processes cannot be looked for, the best prac- tice lies in excision of the head of the femur, and, if the acetabulum is superficially affected or stripped of its cartilage (the disease being pro- bably secondary to that in the femur) it will undergo a natural repair as soon as the cause of its disease has been removed. When the presence of dead bone cannot be made out, or the weight of evidence tends to show that there is no such complication to inter- fere with a natural recovery, it is still a disputed point whether excision of the head and neck of the femur is a necessary or even justifiable operation. Those who argue against its adoption assert, aud with some truth, that while all these cases of hip disease are capable of a