425 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. out of three dying. In the upper third of the thigh, the mortality is still greater. It is from this fact alone that army surgeons have advised the con- servative treatment of compound fractures of the upper part of the femur, and Mr. Erichsdn has been led to assert, that amputation in the upper third of the thigh for compound fracture is an unjustifiable operation. When amputation is not at once called for, the wound should he thoroughly cleansed and all foreign bodies with loose fragments of bone removed; the projecting portions of bone should be excised, bleeding arrested, and the wound sealed with blood or the compound tincture of benzoin, a splint should be applied at once, moderate extension employed, and the case treated on general principles, while some surgeons would inject into the wound a solution of carbolic acid (1 in 20), and under thp carbolic spray, dress it in the so-called antiseptic method. Fractures of the Patella. These are usually transverse from a sudden action of the quadriceps Fractures of femoris, under a violent effort to prevent the body falling backwards, Patella- the knee being at the time partially bent. Such fractures are met with chiefly in the centre of the bone, though they may be above or below it. “ If the fracture is very low down probably the knee was but little beut, and thus the greater part of the bone still rested on the condyles.” (Hutchinson, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1869.) In some cases, both patellae are broken, together or consecutively; in rarer instances, the same Multiple patella may be broken more than once. I have had such a case in a fractures, man in whom one patella had been broken twice and the other three times; and, in the Guy’s Museum, there is a preparation (Fig. 520) from my father’s museum, in which the bone had been broken transversely Fig. 520. Multiple fracture of patella. Prep. 121220. into four fragments, probably from different injuries or from some direct force, each fragment having a ligamentous union. These transverse fractures are at times, although rarely, the result May result of direct violence. The French and American surgeons believe them from direct to be so very frequently. Direct violence to the patella, however, is violence, more commonly followed by what is called a starred or vertical than a transverse fracture, and in these cases, there is rarely much separation of the fragments; in the transverse, the separation is sometimes very great, this fact depending upon the amount of muscular action at the time of fracture. This separation is greatly increased by the effusion that is so apt to take place into the knee-joint, as well as by flexing the leg, both before union has taken plaee and for many months subse- quently, and from a yielding of the ligamentous union. This separa- tion is very frequently an inch, but often more. Sir A. Cooper