66 VILLOUS OB VASCULAK GBOAVTHS. Cystotomy. Villous or vascular growths in bladder. Characters. a polypus, and put a ligature round tlie peduncle of a growth the size of a turkey’s egg with complete success; and Dessault, after removing a stone from a male, successfully twisted off a polypus that he found in the bladder. Mr. Birkett, in a striking example of the disease occurring in a female child set. 5, applied a ligature to the growth, but the patient died with suppurating kidney, the effects of the disease (Med.- Chir Trans., 1858); and, on reading the descriptions of other cases, the prac- ticability of successful operative inter- ference does not appear impossible, Bichard Volkmann on Nov. 30, 1874, having removed a pedunculated myoma growing from the fundus of the bladder from a man set. 54, by means of the su- prapubic incision—a perineal cut into the bladder having been previously made for diagnostic purposes. The man died from peritonitis the next day (‘Arch. 26, Clin.-Chir.,’ Bd. 19, p. 682). The case, when left to nature, can have but one euding. When the diagnosis can be made with tolerable correctness, an incision into the bladder, as in litho- tomy, with the view of applying a ligature to the base of the growth is not even in the male a dangerous operation, and in pedunculated tumours may prove successful; and, when the growth cannot he removed the operation will doubtless be of value in giving a free open- ing for urine to escape, and the growth to expand, in this way relieving symptoms. In female subjects the prospects are even more favourable: as when the bladder has been laid open it may be possible to remove the growth by torsion, ligature, or excision, when a cure may ensue, and if it prove impossible, relief to a certainty will be afforded to all the symptoms as well as life prolonged. Villous or vascular growths (for these terms are synonymous) are found in the bladder as in any other part of the urinary passages.. They grow from the mucous or submucous tissue, and appear as tufts of villous processes like the villi of the chorion. They are usually small in size, and at times multiple, that is, two or three of these tufts are found in the same subject; occasionally, too, . the interior of the bladder seems covered with these villous growths. In an example recently uuder my care this was the case. They are essentially innocent in their nature, and have no relation to cancer as was formerly believed. They possess, moreover, this peculiarity, that they bleed profusely, and even from a single tuft the size of a nut, fatal haemorrhage may occur. They differ widely in this respect from the polypoid tumours last considered, as in these, hsematuria is usually the first symptom that attracts notice, and the most persistent; indeed, it is ofteu the only one. If the growth in any way affects the orifice of the urethra, obstruction may exist, but not otherwise. For diagnostic purposes the urine should always be most carefully examined, as it is Fig 322. Polypoid outgrowths from mucous membrane of bladder. Preparation 210423, Guy’s Museum.