Operative treatment. History and symptoms. 536 OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. mity, and in the later the remedying of it. By way of prevention, the child should be restrained from any prolonged standing or sitting posi- tion, the horizontal posture should be observed as far as possible, some little exercise being allowed and then rest, the two alternating according to the powers of the patient and the necessities of the case. As the general health and powers improve, more liberty may be allowed. In spinal cases these observations are more especially binding, and in them movable couches and spinal chairs are of great service. Where moderate deformity exists, more particularly in the lower extremities, it is often interesting to observe how, by the above means, the bones recover their normal shape, children “ growing out” of their deformity as their health improves, as long as the surgeon takes care it is not increased by neglect. In still worse examples, and where exercise is essential and intermit- tent rest will not be observed, splints and instruments may be bound to the legs. Two long side splints reaching to the ground, carefully bound together and removed at night, are as good as any, or an iron splint with joints at the knee and ankle. Some surgeons prefer an outer splint for knock knee, and an inner one for bow legs. When the curvature of the shafts of the leg hones is very great or acute, Mr. H. Marsh has adopted the plan of forcibly straightening the bones when the patients are under chloroform. He thinks little of the risk of breaking the bone, knowing how rickety bones unite (‘ St. Barth. Rep.,’ for 1870). He believes the plan more adapted for acute than chronic cases. In extreme cases, a wedge of bone may be removed from the shaft. I did this in 1863 on the leg of a child be- tween four and five years of age, and Mr. Little has more recently per- formed the same operation with advantage. It should only be done in extreme instances of deformity, and when no hope of improvement by other means can be entertained. Osteitis Deformans. This name has been given by Sir James Paget to a remarkable dis- ease which he has described in an able paper published in vol. lx of the ‘ Trans, of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society,’ 1877. I have recorded in the ‘ Guy’s Hospital Reports’ for 1877 a good example of it. It begins, writes Paget, in middle age or later, is very slow in progress, may continue for many years without influence on the general health, and gives no other trouble than that which is due to the changes of shape, size, and direction of the diseased bones. Even when the skull is hugely thickened, and all its bones exceedingly altered in structure, the mind remains unaffected. The disease affects most frequently the long bones of the lower extremities and the skull, and is usually symmetrical. The bones en- large and soften, and those bearing weight yield and become unnaturally curved and misshapen, suggesting the proposed name “ osteitis defor- mans.” The spine, whether by yielding to the weight of the overgrown skull or by change in its own structures, may sink and seem to shorten, with greatly increased dorsal and lumbar curves; the pelvis may be- come wide, and the necks of the femora become nearly horizontal. But the limbs, however misshapen, remain strong and fit to support the trunk. (Vide fig. 599.)