RICKETS. 535 development of infancy, or becoming narrowed as to its cavity in one or other of its diameters. The chest also undergoes allied changes, aud Mr. Shaw has well pointed out (‘ Holmes’s System,’ vol. iv) how “pigeon breast” is one of the effects of the disease; atmospheric pressure bending in the bones that have lost their elasticity and become softened, and causing a projec- tion of the sternum and lateral flattening of the chest. In the spine, a general curving of the whole column is the more Lordosis, usual deformity ; “ lordosis,” or anterior projection of the lumbar ver- tebrae, as a compensating curve, being found when pelvic obliquity is present. In all cases of rickets, Humphry has shown (‘Med.-Chir. Trans,’ 1862), that deficiency of growth co-exists with deformity, the lower limbs more than the upper indicating this in their proximal segment. In severe cases, all the bones are more or less deformed, the cranium— often large—presenting a quadrilateral aspect, with sutures widely open till a late period of life, or even subsequently re-opening, the bone either remaining thin or subsequently thickening. The periosteum in these cases is also usually thickened both in the flat as well as in the long bones. The general symptoms of rickets are those of debility, muscular and general weakness of the whole frame gradually passing into that of rickets; dentition is retarded, and teeth decay or drop out. Sir W. .Tenner lays great sti'ess upon profuse perspiration of the head during the night, a tendency to kick off bedclothes, fetid stools, and general tenderness of surface, as constant symptoms of the early stage. Tomes and De Morgan inform us that a rickety bone has the struc- Patholosrv. tural arrangement of normal bone without the earthy salts. Jenner (‘ Med. Times,’ 1860), however, describes an enlargement of the lacunae generally, the effusion of a red pulpy substance in the cancellous tissue, and a thickening of the periosteum ; while Gee (‘ St. Bart. Rep.,’ 1868), Dickinson (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1852), and others, have pointed out how' the viscera undergo some “ albuminoid” changes, unlike the waxy or lardaceous disease. Rickets is a curable affection, that is, if taken before it has far ad- Rickets a vanced and it is remarkable to what an extent the deformities are reme- curable diable under natural processes, the curved or bent shafts of bone affection- recovering their natural shape on taking off downward pressure and improving the general powers of the child. In more severe cases where the curvature cannot be remedied, the bone consolidates and becomes strengthened by buttresses of bone along the concavity, and, although the stature may be diminished and the limbs deformed, the general powers of the patient may be restored and a sound recovery take place. Treatment.—The medical treatment of rickets should be conducted Treatment, on reasonable principles—fresh air and abundance of it, simple nutri- tious food such as may suit the conditions of the digestive organs being essentials; milk and beef tea for young children should be mostly relied upon, and meat in moderation for the older. Cod-liver oil, iron and quinine, are also very valuable drugs. The bowels should be carefully- attended to, while all violent purgatives ought to be avoided. The surgical treatment in the early stages is the prevention of defor- contoied!