VOL. II. 1 THE PBACTICE OP SURGERY. SURGERY OF THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. CHAPTER XVII. SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. Wounds. Incised and lacerated wounds of the nose generally progress well on Wounds, account of the freedom of its vascular supply. The edges of any wound should consequently be brought carefully together and fixed with sutures, even if the part be nearly separated from the body. For this purpose very fine silk ought to be used, and great care exercised in the accurate adjustment of the parts—a suture being passed through the cartilages when they have been divided. In the case illustrated in Fig. 298, where the nose was nearly cut off, the edges of the wound were adjusted, and a good recovery followed. This case occurred in the practice of my lamented late colleague, Mr. Poland. Fracture of the Nose. This accident is not uncommon, and may be simple or compound. Fracture of It may likewise be followed by little or great deformity, the amount nasa’ ’’ones, depending much upon the care and skill with which the broken bones are readjusted. When little or no displacement exists, nothing else is required than the application of cold-water dressing, or perhaps ice, for the first few hours as these bones rapidly re-unite. When dis- placement has taken place, the surgeon must restore the misplaced bones by external manipulation, aided by pressure applied from within the nasal cavity by means of the blades of the ordinary dressing for- ceps, a probe, or some similar instrument as a female catheter. When the parts have been restored to their natural position, or as nearly so as is possible, care must be observed that no external pressure is em- ployed by which they can be displaced. Plugging of the nostrils is useless. When the force has been severe and direct upon the nose, fracture of the skull may complicate the case—fracture either of the Complicated ethmoid bone forming the floor of the base of the skull, as has been )vith illustrated in the chapter on injuries of the skull (Fig. 67), or fracture the^kull of the frontal bone. This latter form may be generally recognised by Fracture of the swelling and crepitation of emphysema about the forehead, or the frontal siuus.