ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 549 him always to hesitate in forming a prognosis, however limited a gun- shot injury may appear to he at first observation. Gunshot injuries are, moreover, specially prone to he followed by diffused meningitis, encephalitis, and the formation of deep-seated abscesses, this proneness to traumatic inflammation being clearly due to the injury the brain itself with its membranes has sustained; for in head injuries with which the civilian is familiar, this tendency to trau- matic encephalitis bears a direct proportion to the injury of the cranial contents. The opening made into the skull by a pistol hall when at full speed is clean and defined; that of exit larger and bevelled outwards. They are rarely complicated with fissures. When, however, the velocity of the ball is in a manner modified, there may he the same amount ot “starring ” at the wound as is seen by the civil surgeon. In military as in civil practice, the inner table of the skull is always fractured to a greater extent than the outer when the ball enters from without {vide Figs. 602-3, taken from Longmore’s article in ‘ Holmes’s Fig. 602. Fig. 603. Wound- of Entrance. Wound qfjEieit. System ’); but the opposite condition exists when the ball passes through the skull on the opposite side of the cranium, the table of the skull corresponding to the point of exit of the hall suffering the most in both cases. In military, as in civil practice the amount of external injury is no External indication of the amount of internal mischief. A spent hall, a frag- injur-v '!° ment of shell, a stone, may cause what appears to be only a contusion Internal"11 °f of the scalp, yet a fracture may co-exist with such a contusion, and a considerable amount of intra-cranial mischief follow. “ The amount of bruising obvious to sight and the degree of concussion may have seemed trifling, and yet the remote consequences may he serious enough.”—Longmore. Contused gunshot injuries without any external evidence of cranial Contusing mischief, are at times associated with such intra-cranial injury as to be shots of head., followed by a speedy death. “Contusing and glancing shots,” says Dr. Neudorfer, of Prague, iu his ‘ Manual of Military Surgery,’ will either occasion fissures, fractures, or depressions, or not interfere with the integrity of the skull at all, according to the velocity of the pro- jectile and the elasticity and power of resistance of the hones.”