460 DISEASES OF PELVIC JOINTS. That, of the great toe often affected. Of pelvic joints. Symptoms. Treatment. Diseases ? of the ! symphysis pubis. Diseases of the coccygeal joint. Of the metatarso-phalangeal joints that of the great toe is the one most frequently diseased, either from injury or otherwise, and when so affected, it is troublesome to deal with. There is some reason to believe that the bursae about the sesamoid bones at the ball of the toe are occasionally the source of the evil. When dead hone exists in these joints it may be removed, and in some cases the joint may be excised with a good result. I have done this on many occasions, and in several a moveable joint was secured. Gouty affections of this joint are very common and may go on to dis- organization. Disease of the joint as a result of a neglected bunion is not rare, but such cases will be treated of in another page. Disease of the Pelvic Joints is often overlooked or mistaken for hip or spinal disease, yet it has features of its own. It is more commonly met with in adults than in children, and after parturition than local injury, and is usually chronic. It may be secondary to disease of the bones that form the joint. In its early stage it is characterised by pelvic or gluteal pains which are aggravated by exercise, relieved by rest, and often put down as rheumatic. Lameness is generally present with a very peculiar, un- steady, rolling gait. Local tenderness will generally be manifested on digital pressure over the joint, and pain excited by separating or pressing upon the iliac wings, swelling along the line of joint may also be visible. The thigh may or may not be flexed, but it will be made to move freely when the pelvis is fixed. As the disease progresses, sup- puration will appear either in the gluteal region over the sacro- iliac joint or in the pelvis, and when the thigh is permanently flexed, pelvic suppuration is indicated. It is to be distinguished from hip dis- ease by the fact that there is free movement of the femur in the aceta- bulum when the patient is recumbent and no spasm of pelvic muscles. There is, moreover, no swelling behind the trochanter or pain on pressure in the part. In no stage of the disease will there be any shortening of the limb. In the treatment of this affection, the same principles are applicable as in other joints—rest, tonics, good food, and air being essentials. As soon as suppuration can be made out, an incision should be made to prevent burrowing; and when dead bone is present, it should be removed. I have taken away large pieces of bone from this joint with great benefit. Disease of the symphysis pubis is very rare, and I have seen it but twice. One of the cases was in a man, who some months before coming under my care was believed to have fractured his pelvis and lacerated his urethra. When I saw him, sinuses existed running down to and into the joint, but no dead bone could be felt. In Guy’s Museum there is a preparation, 131450, in which the synchondrosis is ossified and carious; and a second, 131440, in which complete anchy- losis is present with new bone. Disease of the coccygeal joint is at least as rare as that of the pubic, although well-marked cases have been recorded. It can readily be made out by thickening over the joint, and pain produced by any movement in the bone; in some cases a distinct grating can be felt with the finger in the rectum on attempting to move the part. When the disease is clearly established and the joint disorganized