223 TUMOURS OP THE SCROTUM-. testicle, from its mobility, escapes. When the parts are bruised, the Effusion of effusion of blood is at times very great, the blood forming a large blood- diffused scrotal hsematocele, while at others, it forms a distinct tumour. On January 29tl), 1871, I was consulted by T. B—, set. 40, who sat down on the broken arm of a chair, the stump of the arm bruising the perineal border of the scrotum. A swelling at once appeared, and when I saw him, twenty-six hours after the accident, a well-defined blood tumour existed in the median line of the scrotum, the size of a cocoa-nut, the two testicles maintaining their position on either side. By rest, cold lotion, and tonics the blood was absorbed in three months. Lacerated wounds of the scrotum are also attended with blood extra- ^rounij9 vasation, but they usually heal readily on account of the vascularity of the parts. (Edema of the scrotum takes place whenever any inflammation attacks Q5dema 0f the part or the tissues about. It is seen in the inflammation of the epi- scrotum, didymis associated with gonorrhoea and in acute orchitis; in extravasation of urine and urinary perineal abscess; in the retention of urine in child- hood due to the obstruction of a calculus; in phimosis or paraphimosis; in erysipelas. In all these cases it is present, and more or less redness and external signs of inflammation co-exist. Simple oedema is often one of the first indications of renal or cardiac dropsy. Elephantiasis of scrotum.—The scrotum also is not rarely the seat of Elephantiasis elephantiasis arabum—solid oedema of the scrotum, and the disease of scrotum, generally attacks the penis as well. In tropical countries where this affection is common, the tumours attain an enormous size. It is the same disease as attacks the female genitals and other parts of the body and extremities; and in the West Indies is known as the “ Barbadoes leg.” By Mr. Dalton, of Guiana, and other observers it is regarded as a constitutional disease. It is occa- sionally associated with icthy- osis of the tongue, and is often attended with fever and local ery- thema associated with oedema, which never subsides. When attacking the scrotum nothing but its excision is of any use. The historical case in which Mr. Key removed from a Chinaman, set. 32, a tumour, weigh- ing fifty-six pounds (Prep. 1620f>9, Guy’s Museum), of ten years’ growth (Pig. 387), is a good case in point, but the growths attain a larger size than this. Mr. Wiblin, in 1862, ex- cised a growth equally large, and in the ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.’ for 1863, this case with reference to others will be found. Such growths are made up of the elements of ordinary connective tissue. Sir J. Fayrer has operated on many cases. He "rites: The operation for removal of a scrotal tumour is simple Favrer’s enough, but it requires determination and expedition. It needs also mode of the aid of intelligent assistants. Before commencing it is well to have °Pera,ion- Fig. 887. Examples. Elephantiasis of the scrotum. (Key’s case.)