586 AMPUTATION. The facts of antiseptic surgery wanted. Teale’s amputation. is based, nor to the great value of the special practice based upon it; neither is yet proved, and it is much to be regretted that the originator of the system should not have listened to the repeated requests of surgeons to publish the results of his practice as a whole, since it can be by such alone that the value of the method is to be estimated. The publication of isolated cases, however good, proves nothing, whereas the withholding of the whole suggests much. In Germany and in this country, the practice has made good progress, but it has suffered a little at the hands of its friends, for, when a German surgeon, in advo- cating a certain operation, states that “the justification of operations like these undoubtedly depends entirely on the possibility of guarantee- ing a successful termination,” and expresses his opinion that “ we [the adopters of the antiseptic method] are not assuming too much in say- ing, that we have by degrees obtained sufficient practice and experience in the antiseptic treatment of wounds to be really able to pro- nounce such a result with certainty” (‘ Edin. Med. Jour.,’ March, 1875), surgeons of a cooler temperament, who are not disciples of Lister’s school, are startled; but, when they find such a cautious surgeon as Lister endorsing the observations, and adding to them, by saying that the passage I have quoted and he italicised “ breathes the true spirit of earnest scientific surgery, and is remarkable for the modesty as for the confidence of its tone,” surprise is exchanged for another feeling. As an observer, who has no prejudice for or against the practice, I confess that I can neither recognise the modesty of the assertion nor the true spirit of scientific surgery it breathes ; lean see in it the spirit of the advocate and the enthusiast, but not the calm mind of the judi- cial surgeon. Surgery, however, is unquestionably indebted to Mr. Lister for the introduction of his system, since it has proved that closer personal attention to cases, and the observance of what were regarded as little things, are of great importance; but our knowledge of nature’s pro- cesses of repair, although great, is not enough to justify any surgeon in guaranteeing any special result even in the simplest case; and the antiseptic treatment is not of such proved superiority as to justify any surgeon in claiming a control over its results, for that is what the power of guaranteeing means. I have given the practice in the words of the distinguished originator, feeling that if it had no other influence to back it than Professor Lister’s name and authority it ought to have a fair trial and be honestly tested. The system may be good, and if so, will find its place in surgery, but over-confidence in its power will not help it. Like others, it will have to be judged by the true spirit of scientific surgery, and by that alone; but first let us have the facts. Teale’s amputation, a modification of the skin and muscular flap. This was introduced “ to procure a more useful stump, and in the hope of somewhat diminishing the mortality of the operation. It is proposed to amputate by a long and a short rectangular flap, the long Hap folding over the end of the bone being formed of parts generally devoid of large blood-vessels and nerves, whilst those important struc- tures are contained in the short flap. The size of the long flap is determined by the circumference of the limb at the place of amputa- tion, its length and its breadth being each equal to half the circum- ference. The long flap is, therefore, a perfect square, and is long