WHEELHOUSE’S OPERATION. 138 * Operation described. He states that in his hands and in those of his colleagues it has been most successful. The instruments required for its performance are as follows: “ Lithotomy bandages; a special staff, fully grooved through the greater part, but not through the whole, of its extent, the last half inch of the groove being “stopped,” and terminating in a rounded button-like end (Fig. 363); an ordinary scalpel; two pairs of straight- Fig. 863. Grooved staff, with button-like end. bladed forceps, nibbed at the points; ordinary artery forceps and ligatures; sponge; a well-grooved and finely probe-pointed director; Fig. 364. Teale’s probe-gorget. Teale’s probe-gorget (Fig. 364); a straight probe-pointed bistoury; a short silver catheter (No. 10 or 11 gauge), with elastic tube attached. The patient is placed in lithotomy position, with the pelvis a little elevated, so as to permit the light to fall well upon it, and into the wound to be made. The staff is to be introduced with the groove looking towards the surface, and brought gently into contact with the stricture. It should not be pressed much against the stricture, for fear of tearing the tissues of the urethra, and causing it to leave the canal, which would mar the whole after-proceedings, which depend upon the urethra being opened a quarter of an inch in front of the stricture. Whilst an assistant holds the staff in this position, an incision is made into the perinseum, extending from opposite the point of reflection of the superficial perinseal fascia to the anterior edge of the sphincter ani. The tissues of the perineum are to be steadily divided until the urethra is reached. This is now to be opened in the groove of the staff, not upon its point, so as certainly to secure a quarter of an inch of healthy tube immediately in front of the stricture. As soon as the urethra is opened, and the groove in the staff fully exposed, the edges of the healthy urethra are to be seized on each side by the straight-bladed nibbed forceps, and held apart. The staff is then to be gently withdrawn, until the button- point appears in the wound. It is then to be turned round, so that the groove may look to the pubes, and the button may be hooked into the upper angle of the opened urethra, which is then held stretched open at three points thus (Fig. 365), and the operator looks into it imme- diately in front of the stricture. Whilst thus held open, the probe- pointed director is inserted into the urethra; and the operator, if he cannot see the opening of the stricture, which is often possible, gene-