AMPUTATION. 573 of frost-bite. A month after the injury, when the line of demarca- tion had exposed the bones, Dr. Muller, in order to save loss of blood which would have been serious in the patient’s weak condition, dis- sected as much healthy flesh from the radius and ulna as the line of demarcation would admit, without cutting any blood-vessels, and then sawed through the bone. This operation was performed on both arms with hardly the loss of any blood. On the third day both legs were amputated in the same manner. In this case not one of the four stumps could be covered with sufficient skin, and much had to be left to self- reparation which took place to an extraordinary extent, the stumps healing over with healthy granulations, some little exfoliation of bone taking place in two. Again, is it always necessary to amputate through healthy tis- Not sues ? or, to gain this end, is it expedient to amputate higher up than necessary to would otherwise be necessary ? I unhesitatingly answer that such !J]™r^“gale practice is not called for. To amputate through tissues infiltrated through with cancer or other new growths, would, of course, be futile and healthy bad surgery; but to cut through tissues that are merely infiltrated tlssue- with inflammatory products, that are pathologically reparable and of use, is a wise and conservative process. In disease of the knee- joint when suppuration has spread up the thigh into the soft parts, amputation may often be performed through the condyles or just above them, and a good stump secured; when by following another practice, a much higher amputation would be called for, and conse- quently, increased risk to life incurred. Tissues infiltrated with in- flammatory lymph often unite rapidly and well; indeed I have seen Union of “ brawny flaps” unite by primary union quite as well as others not brawny flaps, so infiltrated. I am convinced, too, that however desirable it may be to obtain good, long, and healthy flaps in all amputations, the advantages of such are not so great as to justify the surgeon in sacrificing more of the body than is essential, thereby adding to the risks of the case and more particularly in amputating above a joint. It is true, that Character of by one form of amputation, a better stump under most favorable cir- stumps, cumstances is often secured than another; but it is equally true, that good stumps are often obtained under the most unfavorable conditions, and that bad stumps follow the amputation of a limb in which the state of the flaps promised to bring about a favorable result. To assert that Relative the form of amputation, or rather that the shape of the flaps, &c., has mortality of anything to do with the relative mortality of different amputations is dj,fer!;n[- incorrect. What evidence exists, points to a different conclusion, for a" PU '* lon9‘ the success of an amputation as of any other operation, turns more Effects of a upon what in recent times seem to have been forgotten, viz. the condi- gross tions of the viscera, the age, and general state of the subject, accepting mortal‘ty- the facts that the older the patient the greater the danger, and the more of the body that is removed, the greater the risk. My own conviction is, that however desirable it may be to obtain a model stump, the end is not N sufficiently certain or important to justify the surgeon in adding one ofMrts'to-6 tittle to the risk of the operation, or in sacrificing more of the limb sake of than the necessities of the case demand. I regard it as bad and un- stumP- justifiable surgery to perform a Syme or a Pirogoff’s amputation when a Chopart’s will suffice; to amputate a leg when the removal of a foot at the joint will answer the purpose; to remove a leg or thigh an