PATHOLOGY OP JOINT DISEASES. 446 Disorganiza- tion of the joint. External appearances in synovitis. In disease of the articular ends of the bones. having been shed from its osseous base and become rapidly de- generated. J The articulating surface of the bone during this time may appear in some cases as in inflammation, only extra-vascular; in others, it may he rough, or, so-called, ulcerating; while in a third class the’ articu- lating facets will have been shed wholly or in part. In a still worse class, pieces of necrosed hone involving more or less of the articular extremity of the bone will he seen, while in the worst, an abscess will have made its way into the joint of the diseased articular ex- tremity. In all these conditions, the cartilages will have disap- peared and the joint become disorganized. These pathological remarks are applicable to every articulation, to the hip as much as to the knee, and to the shoulder as to the elbow. Clinical Symptoms associated with these Pathological Changes. The symptoms by which these pathological changes which have been described can be recognised, vary according to the formation and surroundings of each joint, but in their general character they are the same. Any inflammation of the synovial membrane of whatever kind, always shows itself within a few hours or days of its origin by effusion, and consequently by distension of the articulation, while in the knee, ankle, elbow, wrist, shoulder, and other joints, this clinical condition makes itself manifest in a way which cannot be misinterpreted. The synovial sac becomes enlarged and distended by the effusion, so that it bulges between the bones and gives an outline to the joint unlike that furnished by any other condition. In the hip-joint similar changes take place, but they are not quite so palpable though they can be made out by a careful examination, and particularly by a comparison of the affected with the sound side, a point of practice which should never be omitted in the examination of any injured or diseased joint; the soft parts in front of the joint will be more prominent and full; pain will be produced by gentle pressure made upon the part, particularly behind the great trochanter, where a soft swelling, which will be mani- fest to the eye, will also exist in lieu of the natural depression. Even fluctuation may be detected through the joint on careful palpation. At any rate, to the eye and hand there will be clearly some extra fulness of the soft parts, sufficient to lead a surgeon to suspect the true nature of the disease. In disease of the articular extremities of the bones, a different clinical condition will be present. At the commencement of the disease, and sometimes for a lengthened period which varies in each case, an aching of the part is the only local symptom. This aching may be of greater or less intensity, and depends much on the severity of the disease. It is too often regarded as “ growing pains ” or rheu- matism. What I wish now to note is, that local pain is the first clinical symptom and not effusion, and that there is no enlargement of the affected joint. As the disease progresses, however, an enlargement may be detected, which in the hip can be made out by manipulation; whereas in the knee or other joints, it may be visible to the eye. It will, however, be an enlargement clearly of the bone, a thickening or expan- sion of the osseous structure unlike that existing in synovial disease.