333 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. befall a limb, and in the larger joints is generally complicated with fracture or torn arteries. In the knee-joint the popliteal artery is generally lacerated, and, under such circumstances, amputation is the only resource. In the ankle-joint where the accident is most commonly seen, the case should be treated as one of fracture and wounded joint by immovable splints after its reduction, and the persistent application of cold, either by means of ice or irrigation, In exceptional cases only, when the soft parts are much injured, and in very feeble subjects, ought amputation to be thought of; excision of the articular surface being always a point for consideration. In the elbow where movement is of essential importance, excision had better he performed when the wound is large, although recovery with movement of the joint may take place without it in young adults. Under all circumstances, the dislocation ought to be reduced, the question of excision or amputation turning upon the amount of mischief the soft parts or bones have sustained. Compound dislocations and compound fractures into joints are clini- cally of very similar import. When dislocation and fracture co-exist, difficulties are often met with, hut the reduction of the dislocation is often possible by manipulation aided by chloroform, where, without, it is impossible; and I have re- duced with its aid in one case the head of a fractured humerus from the subglenoid position; and in another a forearm displaced backward with fractured arm-hone, and afterwards in each case adjusted the fracture with facility; I have likewise seen the head of the femur displaced upon the pubes pressed hack into its socket, notwithstanding that a fracture of the shaft existed. I believe that in the majority of these cases the dislocation may be successfully treated before the frac- ture, the fractured hone being at the same time moderately extended. It may be prudent in some to apply splints before attempting the reduction of the dislocation, but such a step is not always necessary or indeed advisable, for with the limb encased in splints the surgeon has less influence upon the dislocated hone. When the dislocation cannot be reduced, the fracture must he dealt with in the ordinary manner. In a case I recently had under care, of a woman, set. 66, in which the head of the femur was dislocated into the sciatic notch and an impacted fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone co-existed, a good limb was secured. DISLOCATIONS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Dislocations of the spine and lower jaw have been considered in former chapters (pages 269 and 551, vol. I). Those of the upper extre- mity will now occupy our attention. Dislocations of the Clavicle. Dislocations of this bone at its sternal end are rare accidents, though according to Flower they form about 3 per cent, of all dislocations of the upper extremity. They are produced by violence applied to the shoulder, when the scapula is fixed, the clavicle being forcibly thrown towards the mesial line. Dislocation downwards is an impossibility, On dislocation with fracture. Fracture and dislocation. Dislocation of the clavicle.