30 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. When warty growths exist, and it is impossible to remove them from above by means of the forceps, or snare, aided by the laryngoscope, the larynx may be laid open fearlessly in the middle line and the tumour re- moved. I did this in 1871, in a child, ait. 3, for extensive warty disease of the epiglottis and glottis with complete success; and my colleagues Mr. Durham and Mr. Davies Colley have done the same. I have also, by the operation of tracheotomy, prolonged for many months, the life of a man who had a cancerous laryngeal tumour obstructing respiration. Tracheotomy may also be required for tumours of the neck pressing upon the larynx. I have been called upon to operate under these cir- cumstances on three occasions; also for intrathoracic tumours, aneu- rismal or otherwise, the operation in both cases being demanded for sudden laryngeal spasm, due either to pressure on the recurrent laryn- geal nerve, or to compression of the trachea, Dr. Bristowe having well shown (‘ St. Thomas’s Hosp. Rep.,’ vol. iii, 1872) “ that destruction of the functional activity of one recurrent laryngeal nerve is marked by paralysis of the corresponding vocal cord, which can be recognised by means of the laryngoscope, by impairment of the musical quality of the voice, and (probably) by some difficulty of swallowing, owing to the tendency of food to slip into the larynx, but is not necessarily attended with stridor or dyspnoea; and, in the second place, that compression of the trachea involves stridor and difficulty of breathing, which is often paroxysmal and liable to end in sudden death, but that it does not of itself interfere with perfect intonation, excepting only in so far as it may render the voice weak by diminishing the supply of wind to the vocal organs.” Excision of the Larynx. This operation was first performed by Billroth, of Vienna, in 1873, for cancerous disease in a man; and Heine, of Prague, Moriz Schmidt, of Frankfort-on-the-Maine, and Langenbeck, of Berlin, have followed his practice, but the success that has attended it is not such as to lead me to recommend the operation. The operation can be performed by making a transverse incision parallel to and above the hyoid bone, and a vertical one at a right angle to it over the larynx, the dissection of the larynx being made from above. Dr. Foulis, of Glasgow, has, how- ever, recently performed this operation upon a man set. 28, for recur- rent papillary sarcoma, with singular success. In the operation he left the epiglottis. (‘ Lancet,’ 1877, vol. ii, and 1878, vol. i.) Bronchotomy, Tracheotomy, Laryngotomy. Modes of Any opening made by the surgeon into the windpipe is called “ irore- opening the chotomy when between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, it is called windpipe. 1( iaryng0tomy . when below the cricoid into the trachea, “ tracheo- tomyand when the incision includes the cricoid cartilage and upper Objects of the rings of the trachea, it is called laryngo-tracheotomy. In all these operation. operations the objects are the same, either to admit air into the lungs when some obstruction exists in or above the larynx, or to facilitate the removal of a foreign body or morbid growth. Dismissing the general term “bronchotomy” from otu' consideration, the two latter operations claim our notice, and are applicable in two different classes of cases. When the cause of obstruction is above the larynx, laryngotomy may be performed; when in the larynx, tracheotomy or laryngo-tracheotomy should always be preferred. For the removal of a foreign body or new growth, tracheotomy is the better operation, the incision at times being