FRACTURES OF THE LEG. 433 observation. In Fig. 529, the whole apparatus is illustrated with an interrupted splint as for compound fracture. In reducing a fracture of the leg, the knee should be partially flexed or held by an assistant, the surgeon manipulating the lower portion (Fig. 528). During the putting up of the fracture, the limb must be kept extended Setting, and the broken bones maintained in position, it being a good plan to fix the foot and limb at first to the posterior splint, and subsequently, to apply the lateral. The leg afterwards should be slung to a cradle by bandages (Fig. 529), or Salter’s cradle may be used (Fig. 530). When any wound in the soft parts exists as in compound fracture, the corresponding lateral splint should be interrupted, as shown in Fig. 529. When the fracture is close to the ankle-joint and any difficulty is ex- Division of perienced in keeping the broken bones in'position from the spasmodic ^°ha action of thetendo Achillis, the tendon should be divided. This simple operation at once permits the parts to be adjusted with admirable facility, and renders the retentive apparatus of real value, while it allows natural processes of repair to go on uninterruptedly, the divided tendon and broken bones undergoing repair together. When the fracture is near or into the knee, a posterior splint such as that of MacIntyre or Amesbury, may be employed; indeed, some employ this splint for most fractures of the leg (Fig. 530). In setting any fracture of the leg, the opposite limb should be exposed The sound as a guide, and an inquiry made to prevent error as to the existence limb as a of any natural or acquired deformity. The foot should generally be gu,de’ placed at right angles with the leg, with the sole flat to the foot-piece, care being observed that the heel does not fall and the lower fragment of bone consequently tilt upwards. The heel should also be well protected from pressure, and the foot covered and protected with cotton wool. “ Take, therefore,” writes Paget (‘ Lancet,’ Feb. 27, 1869), “ the footpiece of the splint as the guide for the position of the foot; and if you but see, in the management of fractures of the leg, that the foot of the patient and the foot- piece of the back splint fairly correspond, it is hardly possible for the limb to fall into any defective method of repair. Correspon- dence between the axis of the foot and of the foot-piece ensures that there shall be no rotation or version, either outwards or in- wards. Then, again, you should be careful that the foot touches the foot-piece by the three balls of the sole—the ball of the heel, the ball of the great toe, and the ball of the little toe.” Dr. Shrimpton, of Paris, acting upon Dr. Nathan Smith’s suggestion -j^g anterior of an anterior ware splint, has applied it to fractures of the leg, with wire splint, success. He employs a splint composed of double wires an inch and a half apart, held together by four transverse bars, and applied by means of straps to the front of the leg, as illustrated in Fig. 531 (‘ Lancet,’ 1872), the limb being subsequently slung in a vertical direction, as Esmarch slings his patient’s leg in disease of, or after operations upon, the ankle. After the limb has been kept in splints for about a month immoveable some immoveable apparatus such as the flannel Bavarian (Fig. 476) may apparatus, be substituted and the patient allowed to get up, moving about with crutches for another month. When there is little or no displacement and little swelling, as soon as the immediate effects of the injury have passed away the immoveable splint may be at once applied, that is, after the first week, the wants of the individual case being the only guide to VOL. II. 28