EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. 477 tween it and the crest of the ilium, over the top of the acetabulum, a semilunar incision, the belly of the curve covering the posterior part of the trochanter major going straight down to the bone through the periosteum; you then pull the soft tissues on one side, and taking a small but strong curved bistoury, go as far round the bone on each side as you can reach, at right angles to your first incision, so as to divide the periosteum completely. You then take a strong, firm peri- Periosteum osteal elevator, with a large handle, and the end slightly curved, and ^ go into this little triangle; you peel off the periosteum, and, as a pi a matter of course, all the muscles with it; by opening the joint thoroughly, and turning the head of the bone out, the periosteum is peeled off from the inner portion; you then saw off the bone above the trochanter minor, taking away the head and neck of the bone with the trochanter major. After the operation, if you keep the leg pulled out to its proper length, by putting on a pair of wire breeches, you can send the patient out into the air the next day.” I have given this operation in Dr. Sayre’s own words, and am disposed to think as well of it as of his general treatment of hip disease. His wire breeches, however, I have never used. When the acetabulum is diseased, that is, necrosed, it may be re- Necrosis of moved. In several of my own cases, I removed large portions of the acetabulum, bone, and in one, the whole floor with a good result; indeed, there is bones reason to believe that, when the bone can be removed, the case is not rendered more hopeless; for, as Holmes has well pointed out, there is always a strong fascia which separates the floor of the acetabulum from the cavity of the pelvis, and prevents all contact with the viscera or their cellular connections. After the operation, the wound had better be left open to granulate, After- aud moderate extension should be applied to prevent the end of the treatment of hone from rubbing against the pelvis, my own double interrupted excislon- splint being the best for the purpose (Figs. 507, 550). As soon as the parts have fairly healed, passive movement may be allowed, and it is remarkable to what an extent useful movement is often secured, the patient being not only able to walk upon the limb, but to flex, abduct, and adduct it, nearly as well as he did before, shortening being the only fault. Amputation at the hip-joint may be entertained in hip disease when On the all hope of a cure by natural processes, however ably assisted by art, question of has been abandoned, and when the powers of the patient admit of a ^nyltation reasonable hope of recovery. Also in cases where excision has been per- ip' formed and failed. It is often successful even under these circumstances. Excision of the hip-joint for gunshot or other traumatic affections of Excision of the joint cannot be recommended. The report of Dr. Otis, in the ad- lliPin mirably got-up circulars of the War Department of Washington (No. 2), woutidsf proves this to demonstration, for out of eighty-five cases only eight re- covered; ninety per cent, having proved fatal. At the same time he show's, that, neither by the expectant treatment nor amputation, do better results ensue. He concludes, that excision of the hip may he performed in uncomplicated cases of gunshot fractures of the joint; that if un- successful, it relieves pain and is attended wdth less risk than amputa- tion, although life is probably prolonged for a longer period by the expectant treatment. Professor Langenbeck, hov'ever, shows in his able essay on gunshot wounds of the hip-joint, as translated by J.