STONE IN THE BLADDER. 93 pain Ifc should he at first pushed well home towards the posterior part of the organ to search its base, and then turned first to one side Fig. 342. and then to the other to search its sides, the sound during the operation being gradually withdrawn and again pushed back. When an enlarged ell|!^.ge(j prostate exists, and a stone is suspected to lie in a pouch behind the prostate so-called gland, the beak of the instrument must be turned backwards, exists, and in this way every corner of the bladder can be examined. When no “ring” of the calculus cau be obtained, the water may be partially drawn off, and by this manoeuvre success will often be the result. In examination children, the introduction of a finger into the rectum facilitates at times the search, and the pressure of the hand above the pubes, often facili- tates the detection of the stone. A large stone is generally touched on the sound entering the neck of the bladder, and a small one usually lies at the base of the bladder, either to the right or left of the median line. An encysted stone is a rarity. A stone may often be felt at one time and not at another: fscnPe consequently, w'hen well-marked symptoms exist any hasty opinion as to its absence is to be avoided. Mr. F. L’Estrange, of Dublin, has invented a sounding-board to be fastened to the top of the sound for intensifying the noise produced hy the instrument wdien it strikes a stone in the bladder. It is an ingenious instrument. Mr. Napier has invented a pewter sound the surface of which being oxidised by nitric acid is easily scratched when coming in contact with a stone. It seems to be of use wThen the stone is otherwise difficult of detection. For the same purpose the microphone may possibly prove of value. The operation of sounding ought to reveal something more, however, Ascertain than the presence of the stone, such as its size and nature, and whether size, nature more than one is present. The size is indicated by the extent of sur- a"d number face passed over by the point of the instrument; and the nature, by of stoneSl the noise emitted on the striking of the stone, such hard stones as the uric acid or oxalate of lime giving a sharp, clear, ringing sound; w'bile the light and soft phosphatic calculi yield a dull one. The roughness of the oxalate of lime calculus may also be generally felt. In children, with the finger in the rectum, the size of the calculus can often be readily made out. The character of the urine, as already pointed out, it throws some light upon that of the calculus. The value of chloroform chloroform