Acute synovitis. In subacute ami chrouic synovitis. On paracentesis of the knee-joint. Treatment. In pulpy disease of synovial membrane. 470 ON THE TREATMENT AND CURE OF JOINT DISEASE. ice locally and opium internally. When disorganization of the joint ensues, few cases are more serious in their local as well as their general effects, as life is often endangered, and recovery with a stiff joint must he regarded as favorable. When the disease is the result of septicaemia, or rupture of an abscess into the joint, the success is no better. In subacute and chronic forms of synovitis, a good result may, as a rule, be promised, and the treatment must be regulated by the cause of the disease. In traumatic cases, the local application of cold or warmth, according to the amount of comfort one or other affords, and keeping the limb immovable by means of splints, are the best means to use; and gentle support, by means of well-applied strapping, is a valuable adjuvant when only a relaxed condition of joint remains. In other cases, the application of a blister to either side of the joint as well as the internal administration of the iodide of potassium, with or without bark or quinine, according to the necessities of the patient, are of great use. When gout appears to be an element in the affection, it is advisable to administer colehicum, lithia, and other remedies approved in that disease. When the case appears to have a rheumatic origin, alkalies, such as the bicarbonate or citrate of potash, &c., may prove serviceable; and, when there is any reason to suspect a syphilitic taint in the constitution, it is necessary to employ- such treatment as is peculiar to such diseases, viz. the iodide of potassium or sodium, or some mercurial. In very chronic and obstinate cases, paracentesis of the joint by means of the aspirator may be performed, and, in the hands of some, has been employed with marvellous success. Sir J. Fayrer was one of its strongest advocates, having shown (‘Indian Med. Gaz.,’ 1869) that in the chronic and subacute forms, much good is often obtained by the operation, if care be taken to exclude the air by carefully closing the puncture and fixing the joint on a splint; the drawing off of the fluid affording instantaneous relief. I have performed this operation on many occasions with good results when the tension of the joint was extreme; it is a practice, however, that ought to be followed with extreme caution. The pulpy disease of the synovial membrane is a very obstinate affec- tion, and though fairly curable with a movable joint in its early stage, and occasionally so in a later, is always tedious and unsatis- factory. In its treatment, the absolute immobility of the joint is most essential. This may be guaranteed by the application of a well- adapted splint (Fig. 558), reaching from the foot two thirds up the thigh. As Fig. 558. long as any heat or periodic flushing of the joint exists, the limb must be kept raised, and warm moist appli- cations applied by strips of lint sur- rounding the joint. After these syrnp- Splint for diseased knee-joint.