AMPUTATION. 571 adopted the practice of dividing by the first cut the skin and super- By double fioinl layer of muscles, by the second, the deeper muscles down to the mci31on- bone, at the line of the retracted superficial layer, and lastly, the hone itself. He also used a retractor. In 1779, Alanson, of Liverpool, made a still farther advance by Circular skin, cutting the integument as usual and allowing it to retract, and then ( f dividing the muscles obliquely upwards, cutting from without down to Muscles, the bone, more after the modern flap operation, the hone being subse- quently divided. The soft parts in this operation on being brought down formed a conical cavity with the bone at the apex, Alanson’s object having been to prevent the sugar-loaf stump. Still later, Ben- jamin Bell, of Edinburgh, and Hey, of Leeds, secured the same end by first dividing the integument with a circular cut and dissecting it up j then the muscles at a higher level; and, lastly, the bone, this being divided at a point considerably above the line of the retracted muscles. Hey, moreover, in the thigh amputations suggested the expediency of dividing the posterior muscles longer than the anterior, to compensate for their greater retraction. The flap operation is more modern than the circular, and to Mr. Flap James Young, of Plymouth, is due the credit of having first published in °PL'ration- 1678, the method which he informs us he had “ from a very ingenious brother of ours,” Mr. C. Lowdham, of Exeter. He made one flap only of skin, divided the muscles by the circular plan, and stitched the parts Skin flap, together. Eighteen years later Verduin, of Amsterdam, made the first Skill aml muscular and skin flap by perforating the limb and cutting outwards muscular (transfixion). flap by To Liston, must be attributed the credit of having fully established trimsfixion- the flap operation, and in the pre-anmsthetic period when time was a point of consideration, the expedition with which amputation could he performed by transfixion compared with the tediousness of the circular operation tended much towards this end. It was thought, moreover, that a large mass of muscle formed a good covering to the bone, and yielded a better stump than that in the circular. Experience, soon proved, however, that this opinion was not supported by facts, that the supposed advantages were not real, and did not compensate for the larger extent of wound caused by the flap operation, and for the evil of often having to tuck in the projecting ends of the divided muscles before the integuments could he adjusted. Liston saw this Amputation before he died, and was led with Syme to modify his operation, makino- by skin flaps in muscular subjects two lateral crescentic skin flaps with their con” aml circular vexity downwards, and dividing the muscles as in the circular method. mUSC e3‘ This operation is by far the best for all amputations of the leg and forearm. In more modern times, Lowdham and Young’s practice has found expression in Carden’s operation, while Teale’s amputation must be regarded as a modification of the flap. Both these gentlemen, how- ever, advocated the long anterior flap in preference to all others, Lon-anterior Teale making two rectangular flaps of unequal length of skin and flap” muscle (Fig. 614), and Carden, a rounded anterior flap of skin alone (Fig. 615); and under certain conditions, nothing can be better than the results obtained, the line of cicatrix being posterior to the ex- tremity of the stump and out of harm’s way, thereby allowing the patient to rest part, if not all, his weight upon the stump.