STRICTURE OR THE URETHRA. 135 method is probably well adapted; but for indurated, ribbon, tunnel or complicated strictures, it is dangerous and unsuitable. When a stricture is associated with a vesical calculus and it is a stricture matter of necessity, to cure the one before lithotomy is employed, the with vesical immediate method may be used; but it ought to be understood, that a calculus, greater amount of danger attends its practice than follows the more ordinary method. The best instrument for this plan of treatment is that made by Weiss for Mr. B. W. Richardson, of Dublin. (Fig. 360.) Ejg. 360. Richardson’s dilator. Yet all strictures cannot be treated by dilatation, for “ cases occur occasionally which are so exquisitely sensitive that the passage of a catheter, however skilfully performed, is followed by such severe con- stitutional and local disturbance as to produce more harm than good, and in which it is clear some other method of cure must be employed, whilst there are others which are relieved by means of the catheter, and even fully dilated, but which have a tendency to re-contract im- mediately upon the omission of the treatment. In the former case the treatment aggravates instead of relieves the symptoms; in the latter it must be continued for life to preserve an open passage. Under such circumstances some other plan of treatment must be adopted;” and I believe now, as when the above words were written, “the most beneficial to be the external division of the stricture from the perinseum; External and it is to the late Professor Syme that we are here especially indebted division of for having so ably recalled our attention to the treatment of such troublesome and painful cases” (‘Guy’s Reports,’ 1858). perimeum. The surgeon must not, however, in all cases of irritable stricture come When to the conclusion, that Syme’s operation is required, as it is only in nPPlica,lle- exceptional examples that it is needed. For in some, the irritability rapidly disappears under the use of the catheter, and in others rest, alkalies, and opium have a most beneficial influence. If these fail, the cutting operation may be performed. Recently the laminaria stalks have been employed for dilating stric- Laminaria tore, but for perineal strictures they are dangerous, and are apt to break. tcnts- For strictures at the orifice of the urethra, from the contraction of cicatrices they are most valuable, but for all other forms they are ill adapted. A laminaria tent swells to at least twice its dia- meter, and may be introduced into the urethra dry and left there, a small shield being fixed to one end to prevent its slipping into the passage. Caustics are not, at the present day, much employed in the treatment Caustics, of stricture; indeed, few use them. The practice in theory is neither sound, nor in its results certain, indeed it is probably inju- rious, since it is impossible to apply such a caustic as the potassa fusa to the seat of stricture alone, and, when tissues are destroyed by its influence, they will subsequently cicatrise and contract, and thus add to the mischief. The practice is not one in any way that can be recom- mended.