524 TUMOURS OF BONES. Treatment. Recurrent enchon- droma. Osteo-sar- coma. Often semi- cartilaginous. Osteo-chon- tlroma. ing it in all directions, but more usually in one. In Pig. 586, taken from a model in Guy’s Museum, this mode of growth is seen. In Pig. 21 the section of such a growth is well illustrated. Cartilaginous tumours are usually of slow growth and painless, with a smooth outline. At times they undergo decay and soften down, dis- charging a brown-coloured serous fluid unlike any other tumour; and under such circumstances are prone to disseminate like cancer. At other times they ossify and turn into bony tumours; the “bulbous exostosis” being often an ossified enchondroma. Treatment.—Where a cartilagi- nous tumour can it should be scooped out of a bone, and in the phalanges and metacarpal bones this practice is usually successful. Ex- treme examples of the disease demand amputation or excision of the affected bone. Enchondromatous tumours are at times recurrent, and in rare ex- amples, return as malignant tumours in other parts of the body. Such growths having a periosteal origin are usually rapid in their increase and diffused. True cartilaginous tumours of bone are usually circum- scribed and often multiple. The bones of the hand are at times much involved. Osteo-sarcoma is a term of broad signification, and usually applied to the fibrous tumour of bone in which fibre-tissue and bone elements pre- dominate in various degrees. Wilks believes “ that they are altogether comparable to the fibrous tumours of soft parts.” They usually have a periosteal origin—periosteal sarcoma—and even in exaggerated ex- amples the shaft of the affected bone may clearly be traced through the growth. The tumour is usually circumscribed with a fibrous capsule, and divided by fibrous or ossitie rays into different portions ; at times the fibrous element predominates, at other the osseous. The disease is usually seen attacking the ends of the shafts of bone and not the epiphyses. All these points are well seen in Fig. 587. Cartilage is often found to be mixed up with the fibrous and osseous elements; and in proportion to the amount of bone matter entering into the formation of the tumour it may be regarded as innocent or other- wise ; bony periosteal growths are rarely cancerous. When fibrous tissue, and more particularly the softer forms, predominate, the tumour is prone to recur at the same spot, or in some other organ, as is the case with cancer. Osteo-chondroma is applied to a tumour involving bone, and made up of cartilage and bony elements in variable degrees, the cartilage taking the place of the fibrous tissue of the osteo-sarcomatous tumour. In one case, bone will predominate, in another, cartilage. The disease is usually Fig. 586. Enchondromatous tumours. From a model in the Guy’s Museum.