DISEASES OF THROAT REQUIRING TRACHEOTOMY. 29 asphyxia may have proceeded, it ought to be tried; for in the most desperate cases there is a chance of success, provided the local lesion, the croup, constitutes the chief danger of the disease. In these views I entirely concur ; they are physiologically sound and clinically correct. Indeed, the operation should be performed in all cases when the disease is steadily progressing, when it is unaffected by medical treat- ment, and before asphyxia, carbonsemia, or severe blood poisoning has taken place; the chances of success under these circumstances being hopeful; as it seems to be a clinical fact that in a large number of such cases the extension of disease is arrested by the operation. When the lungs, however, have become gorged with blood unfit for circulation by too protracted delay in operating, a successful issue can hardly be looked for. In chronic laryngitis, whether tubercular, syphilitic, or otherwise. Tracheotomy tracheotomy may be required to prevent impending death or as a means in chronic of cure. For the first indication it should not be postponed too long, 'nryng'1*8- for “ too long ” often means “ too late,” some spasmodic attack carrying off the patient. When these attacks consequently appear and recur, tracheotomy should be performed. Tracheotomy as a means of cure is not sufficiently practised. “ It Tracheotomy has been hitherto generally performed in the class of cases to which I a8cauJ.”ealls have just alluded—to rescue patients from the danger of impending 0 curc' suffocation, and to prolong life when threatened from laryngeal disease; and yet it must have struck most men, when watching cases which have been operated upon under these circumstances, how rapidly all laryngeal symptoms disappear and ulcerative action undergoes a re- parative process, both in the pharynx and larynx, after a new passage has been obtained for the respiratory act, and complete quiescence of the parts has been secured by means of tracheotomy.” I have a strong Early opinion, therefore, that it would be wise to perform the operation operation in ulcerative laryngeal affections at an earlier period than has hitherto advisei1- been practised, with a view of arresting the progress of the disease, and probably of saving the larynx as a respiratory and vocal organ, anticipating the time when the operation may be demanded for the purpose of preventing impending suffocation. In the first volume of the * Clinical Society’s Transactions ’ I have published some cases illustrative of these views, and my more recent experience has con- firmed them. It should not be performed in the very early period of the disease, whilst any reasonable hope exists that by medical or local treatment a successful result may be secured; but it should he undertaken in all cases of progressive disease, when local and general treatment have failed to make any impression on the local affection. Tumours of the larynx are not very uncommon. Children are liable Tumours of to suffer from warty growths of the rima or the surrounding parts, and tlie lar)'nx in adults, epithelial tumours are likewise met with. Cancerous growths, involving the larynx, are also on record. Mr. Holmes, in his admirable work ‘On Children’s Diseases,’ informs us that out of twenty-eight cases of tumour of the larynx, which he tabulated from the ‘ Transactions of the Pathological Society,’ seven were cancerous. He also points out the fact, that in cases of tumours of this region, life is threatened by the occasional fits of spasmodic dyspnoea, the patient being often well in the intervals, and, when these recur very severely, it becomes necessary to perform tracheotomy.