611 NECROSIS OF STUMPS. only as a ring of bone which may come away by itself or be removed. In the latter more or less of the shaft of the bone dies and subsequently exfoliates, tbe periosteum forming a new casing or sheath of bone to supply the dead bone’s place, as in cases already described in the chapter on ostitis. The largest sequestrum I was ever called upon to remove from a stump, was from the femur of a man whose lower extremity I amputated for disease of the knee-joint consecutive to acute necrosis of the tibia. The femur became inflamed by endostitis after the amputation, and ended in endosteal necrosis. The sequestrum was five inches long. I drew it out of the end of the stump some months after the amputation, and an excellent stump was left. I have had also a similar case in a child about six years old—necrosis of the stump following amputation for acute necrosis of the tibia extending into the knee-joint. The stump united after the operation by primary union, but the bone subsequently appeared in the wound as a necrosed mass, this change being attended with slight constitutional disturbance. In exceptionable cases, the soft parts slip away from the bone and re- tract as a whole, the stump bone suddenly protruding through them for some inches (Fig. 643). In such the periosteum covering the bone becomes inflamed and with the soft parts dying loses its attachment and retracts. The bone deprived of its periosteum projects from between the flaps as a dead or dying portionf, the result of periosteal necrosis. Under these circumstances the stump must be re-opened and the end of the bone removed high up. Sir Joseph Fayrer tells us (‘ Clin. Surg.,’ 1866) that in India, this osteo-myelitis of the ends of stumps is a common affection, and often Osteo- atteuded with severe constitutional symptoms such as are well known myelitis to accompany all cases of acute endostitis with or without amputation. after He regards the affection as so serious that he advocates the re-ampu- tation of the limb above the next joint as soon as the earliest symp- toms of systemic infection appear, blood-poisoning being the chit-f danger of the disease. “ The proper time,” he writes, “ for ampu- Fayrer’s tation in cases of diffused osteo-myelitis is as soon as possible after views, you have ascertained that the bone is affected; and the mode of arriving at this knowledge is simply the passage of a long probe down tbe medulla. Should it impinge on healthy and bleeding medulla near the surface, you may, if the constitutional symptoms permit, wait and see if nature is about to limit the suppuration and throw off the diseased bone, which is a rare result. Should it pass well up the bone, its whole death is certain. In cases of incipient inflammation the medulla will be found protruding like a fungus from the central cavity, and the bone surrounding it exposed to a greater or lesser extent; at a later period the end of the medulla is found already dead, blackened, and encrusted, but within it is a putrid mass of bone, debris, and pus. In the former stage you can watch the progress of the case. In the latter interference is immediately necessary, and that I fear can be nothing short of amputation, either about the next joint, or perhaps in a young subject at the epiphysis. The condition of the soft parts must not deceive, the condition of the bone and the constitutional symptoms must be the guide as to the time and necessity for operations.” I have made this long extract from Sir Joseph Fayrer’s paper because it is through him, that in recent times the subject has been brought pro- minently under notice, though Longmore and Holmes in this country