556 ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE BLADDER, ETC. Wounds of bladder. Removal of foreign bodies. Gunshot wounds of face. Of neck. Of extremities. additional argument in behalf of Legouest’s proposition to incise the abdominal walls and explore the track of the projectile in certain pene- trating wounds. Thus only can the patient exchange the probability of inevitable death for the possibility of recovery, either through the prevention of extravasation by enterorrhaphy, or the bringing of the wounded viscus into apposition with the abdominal walls. For one, I am free to assert that where there is evidence that internal hemor- rhage or fecal extravasation is going on, what may be termed the ‘ ostrich plan’ of giving opium and making the patient comfortable should be abandoned; and I believe that prejudices similar to those that ovariotomy has successfully overcome in the last quarter of a century will be dispelled by the results of exploratory incisions in gunshot wounds of the abdomen before many years have elapsed.” Gunshot wounds of the bladder do not appear to be so fatal as the cases of ruptured bladder met with in civil life. Lidell reports two such cases where a good recovery followed, the projectile in both having passed completely through the organ. Guthrie has related six, in all of which recovery took place. Mac Cormac records a case in which the ball passed through the rectum and bladder, the faeces for a time passing through the posterior opening, and the urine through the anterior. Both wounds closed by natural processes in seventeen days. In all of these the urine escaped externally through the wound made by the projectile, and thus prevented fatal peritonitis from taking place. Such instances as these indicate the proper practice to be pur- sued in all cases of ruptured bladder, viz. cystotomy, as for lateral litho- tomy. When foreign bodies have been carried into the bladder they should be removed, as a ball may remain in the bladder and become the nucleus of a calculus. Guthrie, Hennen, Cheselden, and Garengeot have given such cases, and Ballingall has collected nineteen. In Circular No. Ill of the Washington War Department three cases are recorded in which calculi were removed which had formed on bullets; one where a stone had concreted upon an arrow-head, and one on necrosed bone. Gunshot wounds of the face are serious from the fact that they are so frequently followed by secondary haemorrhage; and, as the deep vessels are usually its source, the difficulties of controlling it are always great. When this complication does not destroy life, good recoveries take place, wounds of the face always healing kindly and with little scar. When there is much loss of tissue, some secondary plastic opera- tion may be required, and many are the instances of success following this practice. Gunshot wounds of the neck are serious according to the nature of the parts involved. When the large vessels and nerves are injured, a fatal result generally takes place; and when the larynx or trachea is implicated, the risks of suffocation are great not only from the direct result of the injury, but from secondary oedema; when this latter com- plication occurs tracheotomy should at once be performed. Wounds of the neck are very liable to be followed by septicaemia. Wounds involving the vertebrae are usually fatal, those cases alone recovering where the spinous or transverse processes are the parts injured. Gunshot wounds of the extremities include flesh wounds and con-