EXCISION OP ELBOW-JOINT. 487 operation, tlie experience acquired in the American war having its value in decided the point. Dr. Otis (Circular 6) has recorded, that in 252 gaastiot cases of primary excision, 23 per cent, died; and in 323 secondary, 38 per cent.; primary excisions being thus more successful than secondary. In cases, also, of tumours involving the head of the bone other than cancerous, excision is an operation of value. The Operation.—The best incision is the vertical, from the acromion Operation of process through the thickness of the deltoid down to its insertion. 1 * o1 Some make an anterior in front of the deltoid. Nelaton used the s transverse and Aston Key the deltoid flap. When the vertical incision is made down to the bone, its head should he successively rotated out- wards and then inwards, the surgeon making a transverse cut across the tuberosities to divide the insertions of the scapular muscles. The capsule may then be divided, aud the head of the bone turned out of the wound aud resected through the tuberosities. The long tendon of the biceps needs no special attention, as in cases of disease it has probably long gone or become fixed to the groove, and after resection 1 of the joint is of no value. When the glenoid cavity is diseased, that is, when dead bone is detected in it, it should be removed; but, in a general way, it requires no treatment. When the vertical incision is employed, it is expedient to make an opening posteriorly through the soft parts at a point corresponding to the upper end of the humerus for the purposes of drainage—this opening being kept patent by means of a drainage tube. Whatever vessels are divided should be twisted; and the posterior circumflex artery at time gives trouble. After the operation, the arm should be abducted and placed on a pillow, the edges of the wound carefully brought together, and water dressing or dry lint applied. As soon as repair has fairly taken place, the patient may get up, the arm being well supported in a sling. Three or four months, however, are usually required before a useful arm is secured. In this operation, M. Ollier makes much of preserving the perios- Ollier advises teum, turning it back off the bone with all the soft parts by means '^en-HUo t of raspatories. This is not so difficult in cases of disease as might of be faucied, a cut with a strong knife down to the bone should so divide periosteum, all the soft tissues over the bone as to give admission to the edge of a raspatory for the purpose of turning them back. Ollier has done this on four occasions with success. In resecting the bone, no more need be removed than is necessary beyond the head and half the tuberosities; but, when the section is not healthy, another may be made. Four or five inches of bone have been removed in some cases, and yet a useful limb remained. ON SUPPURATION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. There is a great difference amongst surgeons as to the treatment Treatment of a suppurating elbow-joint. In the Scotch school, excision is em- ol ployed very freely, under the belief that a better arm more generally m elbow.10" follows such a practice than results from a cure by natural processes, and that a joint with better movement is secured in a shorter time. I cannot say that I agree in this opinion, for in elbow-joint disease, where pus is let out by free incisions aud good reparative power is present, recovery with a movable joint, and one admitting of pronation and supination of the hand is by no means uncommon. In other cases, anchylosis of the