252 CANCER OF THE BREAST. Brawny cancer. Atrophic form of cancer. Cancer. Progress. Character- istic ulcera- tion. or on the side of the neck, will sooner or later become involved; and, when the skin is implicated, this symptom soon appears. As the glands enlarge, nerve pains down the arm appear, and oedema of the arm commences from the mechanical obstruction to the venous circula- tion of the extremity caused by the enlarged glands. At times a serous effusion takes place into the pleural cavity of the affected side sufficient to destroy life. In some rare cases of cancer the disease ap- pears as a brawny in- filtration of the breast and integument over it, some erythematous red- ness and cedema being mixed with it at its onset. These cancers are of the worst kind, and speedily destroy life. In other cases, mostly chronic, the disease is more cutaneous and shows itself as a tuber- cular affection of the skin which gradually spreads, till at last the part affected seems skin- hound. This condition may be limited or ex- tensive ; and occasion- ally involves the whole of one side. I have re- cently had a case under observation in which both breasts, the sternum, sides, and half the dorsal region of the back were thus involved. At times this tubercular development is associated with acute or recurrent disease. In rare examples it occurs as a primary affection and is very chronic, the tubercles even disappearing by atrophy. A cancerous tumour of the breast most frequently appears in middle life, that is, when the procreative organs are verging towards their natural period of functional decline, such a period taking place at an earlier date in the single than in the fruitful woman. It attacks married women more frequently than the unmar- ried, and, when infiltrating or involving the breast-gland, is seldom stationary. As the disease progresses unchecked, ulceration of the integument, preceded by a softening down or breaking-up of the tumour itself will soon appear, and with this, the characteristic infiltration of the margin of the wound will occur and give rise to indurated, everted edges. A general cachexia from the pain and wasting discharges will soon show itself, and more or less distinct evidences of the complication of other organs become apparent. Under such circumstances, the end i3 not far off, for the disease has run its course, and with it the powers of its victim have become undermined, for the victory remains with the Fig. 401. Tuberous cancer.