Cancerous growths. Hydatids. Trichina. Symptoms of trichuriasis. Vascular tumours. 298 AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. oblique muscle of a woman ast. 31 (‘ Path. Soc. Trans./ vol. xviii). The tumour separated the fibres of the muscle which it infiltrated, and, microscopically, it had all the elements of the fibro-plastic tumours! It returned within the year, and when I last saw the patient, in 1869, there was a second growth the size of a cocoa-nut occupying the place of the original tumour. In 1868, with Dr. Burchell, of Kings- land, I removed from the abdominal muscles of a woman, set. 33, a myxomatous tumour, eight or nine inches in diameter, of two years’ growth. Cancerous tumours may originate in, hut more frequently infiltrate, muscles as secondary growths or by extension from other parts. Sur- geons see them in the pectoral muscles in acute or neglected cases of cancer of the breast; in the periosteal cancer of hone, as well as in other parts. In the tongue and lip they may be regarded as new growths. Hydatids, likewise, are found in muscles as in every other tissue, as painless, tense, globular, swellings. So also is that curious nematode worm the Trichina spiralis, which, in man, seems to he taken into the body through eating the insufficiently cooked flesh of animals infested with them, particularly that of pigs. “ Trichinae, as ordinarily observed in the human muscle, present the form of spirally coiled worms in the interior of small, globular, or lemon-shaped cysts, which latter appear as minute specks scarcely visible to the naked eye. These specks sometimes resemble little par- ticles of lime, and are more or less calcareous externally, according to the degree of degeneration which their walls have undergone ,• these cysts are not, however, essential.”—Cobbold. When these worms are present in large numbers in the body they give rise to a disease known as trichiniasis which is most fatal. Drs. Boehler and Konigsdoffer, of Central Saxony, who first saw this disease according to Leuchart who described it, state that “the affection began with a sense of prostration, attended with extreme painfulness of the limbs; and after these symptoms had lasted several days, an enormous swelling of the face very suddenly supervened. The pain occasioned by this swelling and the fever troubled the patients night and day. In serious cases the patients could not voluntarily extend their limbs, nor at any time could they do so without pain; they lay mostly with their arms and legs half bent—heavily, as it were, and almost motionless, like logs. Afterwards, in the more serious cases, during the second and third week an extremely painful and general swelling of the body took place,” a large proportion of the cases died. Dr. Thudichum has given an able report on this subject in the ‘ Medical Officer’s Report ’ to the Privy Council, 1864. Vascular tumours of muscle have been made the subject of a special paper by Mr. C. de Morgan (‘ Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ 1864), and Mr. Teevan has published an able paper on tumours in muscle in the same Review for 1874. These, however, are very rare. The vascular tumours of erectile tissue attack a muscle either as a diffused or en* capsuled growth, or as tumours having the appearance of varicose veins around the muscle. They are chiefly though not always con- genital, and are generally found in the lower extremities. They have no definite clinical history beyond their gradual and painless increase. My colleague, Mr. Howse, in 1872, excised such a non-encapsuled growth from the biceps muscle of the thigh of a woman, tet. 23, which was