271 ON OVARIAN DISEASE AND OVARIOTOMY. advisable to have recourse to the practice. Mr. Spencer Wells assures us, however, that the mortality of ovariotomy is but little aflected by tapping. When a patient has attained the point at which it is evident some- thing must be done for her relief, the diagnosis of the disease is clear, and there are no points in the case contra-indicating the capital opera- tion of ovariotomy, it is the safer practice by far to operate at once than to lose time,' which may be of value, or to risk causing the forma- tion of adhesions, which are always evils, by any such temporising means as tapping. For diagnostic purposes, in certain cases, the operation of paracentesis abdominis is of great value, as it is in others in which relief is a necessity and the operation of ovariotomy is inexpedient or inapplicable; but, under other circumstances, it is a mistake and should be avoided. Are all cases, therefore, of polycystic tumours of the ovary to be excised; and, if not, which should be rejected ? It has been already shown, that there is no hope of doing permanent good to a patient labouring under this disease by any special treatment, as there is no remedy which can be trusted to retard the growth of the tumour, or to arrest its progress. Further, there is no operation less than that of extirpation, which offers any prospect of afford- ing permanent relief, or benefit. Still, there are forms of multi- locular ovarian disease with which it would be unwise to interfere, and others with which it would be quite unjustifiable, and among these the cancerous stand pre-eminent; and, though there may be difficulty in forming an exact diagnosis as to the existence of such a cancerous growth, an approach to certainty may be made and a fair probability attained. It is not, however, to be made out by any local examination alone, for, so far as my own experience goes, there are no definite local symptoms by which a solid or semi-solid multilocular cancerous ovarian tumour can be diagnosed from one of a benign character, although, perhaps, in rare examples of cancerous disease the general outlines of the growth are more irregular or nodular. The suspicion of its cancerous nature is only to be roused by the general condition of the patient, and the natural history of the case; since in the cancerous, there will be, as a rule, more emaciation, wasting, and rapid constitutional decay than in the benign, and the disease will run its course more rapidly, although the size of the tumour may not be so great as in the simple cystic form. This rule has many exceptions, for the cancerous tumour of the ovary is very commonly a cystic disease, and there are no reasons why these cysts should not enlarge as much in the malignant as in the simple form, and in practice this is found to be the case. When solid and uncomplicated with cysts, the cancerous tumours, however, rarely attain a great size. It has been said that the oedema of the abdominal walls may be looked upon as a useful guide to indicate the cancerous nature of ovarian disease but my own personal experience does not support this view, and in the in- stances which have come under my observation in which this symptom has existed to the greatest extent and the most marked degree, there has been little doubt as to the benign nature of the disease, for the tumours in one case had existed for eight years, in another for twelve while in a third for at least thirty years, and in these three extreme ex- amples, the thickness of cedematous integument over the lower part of Ovariotomy best performed at When the operation is unjustifiable. Cancerous growth. Difficulty of diagnosis. Rapid course. Rarely attain a great sire. (Edema not reliable.