CERE OP JOINT DISEASE. 463 ON THE TREATMENT AND Diseases of tlie Phalangeal Joints are, in their nature, like those of other joints, and must he Diseases of dealt with upon similar principles, synovitis, pulpy disease, and p^langeal hone disease, with or without disorganization, being found in all. j0jnt. When the disease is confined to the synovial membrane, and the ireatmeut •joint has not disorganized a recovery with movement may 6e secured by good treatment. When a natural cure by anchylosis only can be looked for, the question of the removal of the finger may be entertained as a matter of expediency, for a stiff joint at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is a serious detriment, while at the middle joint it is less injurious, and least so at the terminal one. In the thumb, amputation is rarely to he thought of, for when re- covery from disease of the distal phalangeal joint is probable by anchylosis, a good thumb may be secured, though the same result in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is so inconvenient that the opera- tion of excision is probably preferable. But every case must be treated on its own merits and according to its own special wants. The position of the patient, his occupation, age, &c., should have a powerful influence in guiding the surgeon to a decision. ON THE TREATMENT AND CURE OF JOINT DISEASE. In the treatment of joint disease the most important point a surgeon Curability of has to hear in mind is its curability, since clinical experience affords Joi,lt diseH8e- convincing evidence that, under judicious management, a large propor- tion of joint cases can be guided successfully to a complete recovery, and that while in some a cure can only take place by anchylosis or a stiff joint, it is in exceptional cases only that severe operative interference is required. The recollection of these facts is a constant encouragement to the surgeon to persevere with, and to the patient to submit to, the necessary means adapted to secure these ends; while it in no way tends to discourage operative interference, when the course, nature, or severity of the disease affords sufficient evidence that such inter- ference is expedient or necessary. All pathological evidence tends likewise to the support of these con- As proved elusions, for no one can have carefully examined joints that have t)y., been removed by either excision or amputation, or others that have evidence!0* failed to go on towards a successful issue, without being struck by the vast amount of repair that exists side by side with the disease, and by the apparently limited character of the latter, and without feel- ing in many cases where a capital operation had been performed that simple operative interference would probably have been successful, or that none at all was really required. At the same time it must be borne in mind that while in a patho- logical sense disease may need no interference, on account of its limited nature or reparable character, yet, in a clinical aspect, a very opposite conclusion may reasonably have to be drawn; since the dis.b‘* El ease by its progressive and weakening tendency may have demon- oiLervatUm,