94 STONE IN THE BLADDER. Fallacies in souuiling. Must bear ' and feel the stone. Vaginal examination in female. I Treatment of stone in bladder. On litbontriptics. Experiments of Dr. Roberts. in facilitating the search for a stone, more particularly in children, is so great, that it should almost always be employed. In sounding, the surgeon must not be misled by the sensation given by the rugous or roughened bladder, the viscus feeling hard and uneven to the end of the sound, and the examination giving pain. When this condition is made out all sounding should be given up, for the existence of such with a stone is almost unknown. In children, the instrument may strike against the sacrum or spine of the ischium and mislead, but in this case there is no sound emitted; indeed, the surgeon must be careful to 'hear as well as to feel the stone before he is satisfied as to its presence, as there are many affections of the bladder and prostate that in their clinical history and physical symptoms simulate those of stone, but in none is any perceptible sound given when using the metallic instrument, as in stone. The only unequivocal sign of calculus is the sound produced on striking the stone. Informing a diagnosis, the surgeon should always remember that when irritation at the neck of the bladder arises from stone, it is referred to the glans penis; when from disease of the bladder, to the organ itself; and when from disease of the prostate, to the perinseum or rectum. When a calculus is suspected in the female, a vaginal examination will often enable the surgeon to feel the foreign body. It will also remove all such sources of fallacy as are prone to follow from uterine affections. In female children, a rectal examination will do as well. Treatment.—A calculus having been detected in the bladder,there is only one form of treatment which can be successful, and that is its removal; for, with rare exceptions, a stone, if allowed to remain, will set up, not only bladder disease, but kidney mischief, ending in death. A stone may be removed by a cutting operation, lithotomy; or by a crushing one, lithotrity; the treatment by lithontriptics and electro- lysis has hitherto met with indifferent success. In former times, small stones were removed from the bladder by forceps. Sir B. Brodie, Sir W. Blizard, Boyer, George Bell, and others, have recorded many such cases. Sir A. Cooper’s celebrated case, in which he removed eighty small stones by this means, is well known ; but the practice has been entirely superseded by the lithotrite. Lithontriptics, or stone solvents, were used long before the composi- tion of urinary calculi had been made known, and were mostly alka- line remedies; and the most celebrated nostrum of Joanna Stephens, for which the Government of 1739 gave a reward of £5000, was com- posed of burnt eggshells and snails, with Alicante soap. Prout showed the value of fluid as a solvent in calculous affections; Chevallier, of alkalies ; and Ch. Petit, more particularly of the Vichy springs. There can be no little doubt, too, that in the lithic acid form of stone, alka- lies have an undeniable influence in checking their increase, if not in aiding their solution. In other stones they have no such influence. Dr. Roberts, who has in recent years paid much attention to this sub- ject (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1865), seems to think that “the results obtained by his experiments demand a considerable modification of the prevailing opinion regarding the inutility of the solvent treatment; they suggest an essential improvement in the treatment of renal calculi; they