401 FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS. The fracture is usually placed about half an inch or an inch above Scat, the wrist-joint, and the lower fragment or epiphysis is displaced back- wards. It is, moreover, so displaced that the articular facet instead of looking downwards, forwards and inwards is made by rotation to look downwards, backwards, and outwards. The outer side of the fracture towards the styloid process is rotated more than the inner, the strong ligaments uniting this with the ulna holding the hone more in position. On this account the lower fragment is often also broken vertically, giving rise to greater deformity as well as to shortening of the bone on its outer border. In some cases, the end of the bone is comminuted (Guy’s Museum, 111932), and Fig. 491 illustrates a case of fracture of both radii from a fall on the hands. The diagnosis of this accident is not difficult; indeed, the aspect of Diagnosis, the wrist may be said to he characteristic. “ The posterior surface of the limb,” wrote Colies, “ pre- sents a considerable de- formity; for a depression is seen in the forearm, about an inch and a half above the end of the hone, whilst a consider- able swelling occupies the Fig. 491. wrist and indeed, the base of the appear to backwards so metacarpus; carpus and metacarpus be thrown much, as, on Prep. 1118s0. Fractured end of radius. Prep. 1118s0. a suspicion that the first view, to excite ladius has been dislocated forwards. On viewing the anterior surface of the limb we observe a considerable fulness as if caused bv the flexor tendons being thrown forwards; this fulness extends upwards to about one third ot the length of the forearm, and terminates below at the upper edge of the annular ligament of the wrist. The extremity of the ulna is seen projecting towards the palm and inner edge of the hmb. The amount of deformity turns upon the amount of displace- ment of the broken fragments. There will be pain in the part, increased by pressure on the seat of fracture and about the internal lateral liga- ment; the movement of the joint being rendered impossible. On feeble movement of the hand, the head of the radius will be felt to rotate, the fracture being commonly an impacted one; crepitus will either be absent or very indistinct, and can only be well brought out by in°oldTub|ectsbr°ken boues—a very questionable proceeding^ especially Treatment.—In all frac- tures of the radius, it is essential to keep the hand at rest, and, as a conse- quence, all splints should ex- tend at any rate down to the base of the fingers. In frac- tures of the neck or shaft, the elbow should be bent at right VOL. II. Fig. 492. Splints for fracture of forearm. 26 Treatment. Of neck and shaft.