URINARY CALCULI. 86 On uric acid calculus. Urate of ammonia calculus. Oxalate of lime calculus. It may be composed of some organic material, such as blood, mucus, &c., or a foreign body introduced from without (Fig. 341). 1. Uric acid calculus is by far the most frequent, forming, accord- ing to Cadge, nine tenths of all primary formations (‘ Address on Surgery/ 1874). It is usually derived from the kidney, and when retained in the bladder, becomes a flattened oval stone of a fawn or yellow colour with a compact and occasionally crystalline laminated structure (Fig. 337). The uric acid is generally mixed with the alka- line urates in variable proportions. This form of stone is often found in gouty subjects, and generally in the middle period of life. It is usually associated with acid urine, and such as is prone to deposit the urates. The nuclei of most calculi are of this nature. In the catalogue of calculi of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, plate iv, fig. 6, there is a drawing in which a uric acid calculus is shown to have formed round a piece of steel. 2. The urate of ammonia calculus is not common. In Guy’s Museum there are only seven specimens of it out of 394 calculi. Most compound calculi contain this substance in abundance. They are seldom large, mostly smooth, and of a grey-fawn colour. On section, they are homogeneous or indistinctly laminated and have an earthy fracture. They are more commonly found in children although they have been removed from adults. Guy’s Museum contains a bottle (No. 2213) in which are 142 calculi of this nature which Sir A. Cooper removed from the bladder of one patient. They are of the colour of pipe-clay, and in the form of cubes with the edges and angles rounded off. The rarity of this form of calculus is probably due to the solubility of the salts. 3. The oxalate of lime or mulberry calculus stands second in point of frequency to the uric acid in European countries; though Dr. H. Y. Carter tells us that the oxalate of lime ingredient predominates in all urinary calculi in Northern India (‘ St. George’s Hospital Reports/ 1871-2). These calculi vary in colour from grey to a rich brown or black, and have an external form of a tubercular, angular, or spinous character, being rarely perfectly smooth (Fig. 338). In some, the sur- face is studded with spines so acute and slender as to resemble thorns, Fig. 338. Mulberry calculus . . its section. while in others, there is a coating of acute octohedrons of transparent oxalate of lime, giving an extremely beautiful appearance. Occa- sionally these crystals are opaque and the octoliedron is flattened when the calculus appears as if studded with pearl-spar (Prep. 2139s,