LITHOTOMY. 120 Bilateral section of the prostate. Civinle’s operation. Buchanan’s operation. Mode of performance. Recto-vesical operation. Dolbeau claims for this operation great advantages, which are not yet proved. The instruments, however, are very ingenious. Dupuytren’s bilateral section of the prostate for the removal of large stones, with the semilunar transverse perineal incision in front of the anus, meets with few supporters at the present day. He made his first incision with a scalpel down to the membranous portion of the urethra, and afterwards introduced into the groove of the staff a double-bladed curved lithotome which was pushed, closed down to the stone into the bladder along the staff. The blades were then opened transversely, and the instrument withdrawn. By these means the neck of the bladder and prostate were freely incised, the prostatic section having an oblique direction downwards. Civiale in 1836, suggested his medio-bilateral operation, “ being dis- satisfied with the bilateral, and shunning the lateral method on account of the anatomical objections.” Having introduced a staff with a me- dian groove, he made an incision in the median line an inch and a half long in front of the anus down to the membranous portion of the urethra. He made also a free opening into the urethra, and then introduced an instrument similar to Dupuytren’s lithotome,butstraight, along the groove of the staff into the bladder, opening the blades when the bladder had been entered, and dividing the neck of the bladder on its withdrawal. The finger was then introduced, staff removed, and for- ceps inserted, the stone being removed as in other operations. It differs little from Dupuytren’s, except in the form of perineal incision. Sir H. Thompson, who first described this operation in England, as well as Erichsen, have both successfully removed calculi by this operation. Dr. Andrew Buchanan’s operation with the rectangular staff, bent three inches from the point, and deeply grooved laterally with a posterior opening, is essentially a central operation. He suggested it in 1847. The staff is introduced into the bladder, and, guided by the finger in the rectum, the angle of the staff is made to correspond to the apex of the prostate. The operator, still retaining his finger in the rectum, inserts a long straight bistoury in front of the anus, with the blade horizontal and edge turning to the left down to the groove and angle of the staff, and pushing it towards the bladder to stop at the end of the staff. He then withdraws the knife, and as he does so, makes a curved incision through the soft parts around the left side of the rectum towards the tuber ischii, the wound being about an inch and a half long. Dr. Buchanan describes his operation as being half that of Dupuytren’s. When the stone is large, the right side of the prostate is cut, thus approaching it more nearly as a whole. The recto-vesical operation was at one time a very favourite one. The late Mr. Lloyd, of St. Bartholomew’s, was about the last English surgeon who freely practised it, whereas nowr it has been almost lost sight of. The operation consists in the introduction of the knife into the rectum, with the blade flat upon the palmar surface of the right index- finger, the turning of the edge of the knife upwards, and the perfora- tion of the bowel and urethra at the apex of the prostate down to the groove of the staff; the sphincter and soft parts being freely divided upwards in the median line of the pei'inaeum for about one inch on the withdrawal of the knife. The left forefinger is next inserted into the wound down to the groove of the staff, and the bistoury a<uiin introducod with its edge downwards and pushed into the bladder