EXCISION OF WRIST-JOINT. 490 Partial resections condemned. On the treatment of suppuration of wrist. Excision of wrist. Langen- beck's opera tion. Lister’s operation described. Description of operation continued. the radius was polished off and played on the humerus and ulna upon a material much resembling cartilage. If the ulnar nerve be in- jured, much wasting of the muscles must occur; if divided, union of the ends may, however, take place. Syme has recorded such a case. When disease returns, a second resection may be performed, and even a third. When dead bone follows, it may be removed; indeed, nothing should be left untried before amputation is practised. I have per- formed the operation twenty-five times, and have never had to resect a second time, or to amputate; and in two thirds of the cases good movement was obtained. Partial resections of the elbow are to be condemned, as a rule, experience having indicated that they almost always end in anchylosis of the joint. In 1864, however, my colleague, Mr. Birkett, excised the olecranon for local disease following an injury, the man recovering after many months’ treatment with a slightly movable articulation. I have also recently (1877) done the same—a barrow man, set. 38, l’ecovering with a joint fixed at a very obtuse angle, with limited movement. I have likewise removed from a disorganized elbow-joint of a woman, the necrosed olecranon process with a good result, the humerus and ulna subsequently anchylosing, the radius and hand retaining all their movement. ON SUPPURATION OP THE WRIST AND CARPAL JOINTS. In this affection, operative interference is rarely called for, beyond free incisions for the evacuation of pent-up pus, and removal of dead bone, recovery being aided by the absolute immobility of the hand and fingers, and such constitutional remedies as the wants of the indi- vidual case suggest. When, however, such means fail, or the local disease is too extensive or severe to allow of a natural recovery, exci- sion of the joint should be performed. Lister, Hancock and others have had successful examples. The best method of performing the operation is that of Laugenbeck’s, by means of a single free incision over the dorsum of the wrist extending along the centre of the meta- carpal bone of the index finger. By this incision the lower part of the radial artery is avoided, and ample room given for the completion of the operation. Through the opening made the carpal bones can readily be turned out and the bases of the meta- carpal bones with the extremities of the radius and ulna excised ; the tendons of the wrist being held aside with ease. In performing this operation I have been struck with the facility with which it can be effected, and believe it to be preferable to the comparatively difficult and complicated method suggested by Lister, which is to be com- menced by an incision made in front over the second metacarpal bone internal to the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and running along the back of the carpus, internal to the same tendon as high as to the base of the styloid process of the radius; the soft parts, including the extensor secundii internodii aud the radial artery, being cautiously detached from the bone, external to this incision, and the tendons of the radial extensors of the wrist being also, severed from their attachments, the external bones of the carpus will be exposed. When this has been done sufficiently, the next step is to sever the trapezium from the other bones with cutting pliers, in order to facili- tate the removal of the latter, which should be done as freely as is