151 RETENTION OF URINE. there is a strong probability that he will succeed. Having accom- plished this, the instrument should be fastened in and the urine allowed to flow away as secreted, being conducted at once by means of a tube into a vessel placed close at hand ; for, if the catheter be plugged, urine is sure to find its way by it's side into the perineum ; consequently a gum elastic or vulcanite instrument, with a strong stylet, should be employed. If the attempt at catheterism then fail, some other means must be employed to provide an outlet for the urine, as extravasation, with all its danger, will necessarily follow. Under these circum- stances an incision into the perineum on a grooved staff is unques- Perineal tionably the soundest practice to adopt; as by this means the extra-incision, vasated blood and urine find a ready outlet, and the bladder when it contracts, a vent for its contents—the danger of extravasation of urine being prevented. When the perineum has been laid open and the two ends of the Treatment of divided urethra can be made out, they may be brought together by a the ruptured suture; and, if the orifice of the vesical end of the ruptured urethra can be found with a grooved probe, ,a catheter should be passed, the instrument having been first introduced through the penis, and subse- quently guided upon the grooved probe into the bladder. If difficulty is experienced in finding the orifice, there need be no alarm, as it is quite clear that the urine will readily find its way externally through the artificial wound; nevertheless, an early attempt to pass the catheter should certainly be made, as it is most important that the con- tinuity of the urethra should be restored as early as possible. When a catheter has been introduced, it must be left, since it is important that the patency of the canal should be maintained during the whole period of its repair, and its subsequent contraction in a measure neutralised. The frequent passage of an instrument after the repair has taken place is an important point to be observed, this practice being the best guarantee that a cicatricial stricture cannot ensue. In the case of a man I treated seventeen years before for retention following a ruptured urethra by a perineal incision, there has not since been any difficulty in micturition. RETENTION OF URINE. When a patient is unable to pass his urine, he is said to be the sub- Retention of ject of retention, which may be due to the presence of organic or urine, cicatricial stricture, spasm of the urethra, urethral obstruction Causes, from inflammation of the urethra or prostate, urethral calculus, and many other causes. I have already stated, that retention existed in 129 out of 608 cases of organic stricture admitted into Guy’s during statistics seven years; and in 5 out of 43 cases of traumatic stricture. It was also present in 80 other cases, the result of varied causes unassociated with stricture. Spasmodic stricture was the assigned cause in half i.e., it was found in subjects in whom no permanent narrowing of the canal existed. In almost all, excess of drinking, with or without exposure to wet and cold were the exciting causes, and no complication aggravated the cases. One was in a boy, set. 10, who paid the penalty of a drink- ing bout by suffering the pain of a retention. Catheterism relieved