TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. 258 On hydatid cysts. Nrevus of the breast. Open cancerous ulcer. Hydatid cysts are found in the breasts, but are not common. Only one example has fallen into my hands, although I have seen two others in the practice of my colleagues. My own patient was a woman, set. 30, who for five years had had a painless globular swelling in her left breast, and when I saw her it was as large as a cocoa-nut. I tapped the cyst and evacuated sixteen ounces of a clear non-albuminous fluid, and, as it was evidently the fluid of a hydatid, I made a free incision into the tumour and turned out a large acephalocyst; the patient made a good recovery. Ncevus, involving the whole mammary gland, may be met with. I have had under my care a splendid example in a girl, six years old, in which the whole organ was like a sponge and as large as half an orange. On the open, ulcerating, and discharging tumour of the breast.— In the growth of any tumour situated in the mammary gland or its neighbourhood, there must be a period when the integuments will become so involved as to ulcerate or give way, and, under these circumstances, a discharging surface or cavity will present itself, varying in its aspect according to the innocency or malignancy of the growth with which it is associated. If the tumour is cancerous the open surface or dis- charging orifice will suggest its nature, and the integument itself or the margins of the wound will be infiltrated with cancerous material, the latter presenting the thickened, indurated, and everted margin so characteristic of the cancerous ulcer, and which, when once seen and appreciated, can hardly he mistaken (Fig. 405). But if the tumour he innocent, a very different condition will present itself, for a clear understanding of which, it is essential to recall one or two points of difference between the innocent and malignant tumours, although at- tention may previously have been drawn to them in former pages. It is the peculiar nature of the innocent tumour to affect the part in Fig. 405. Fig. 406. Open cancer of breaBt, with infiltration of skin. Model, Guy’s Mus. Intra-cystic growth protruding through skin in case of simple cystic disease.