167 AFFECTIONS OF THE GENITAL ORGANS as an expanded glans penis and a pendulous prepuce. The cleft urethra, as it becomes lost in the pelvic fissure, can be made visible by pulling the parts down. (Fig. 374.) In the female subject, the exposed urethra will be seen between the two labia. When the vagina is present, it will open at its upper border, and appear continuous with the lower labia. (Fig. 3/5.) At times, though very rarely, the epispadias involves only the urethra. I have seen but five cases of this peculiarity, and in all the exposed mucous surface of the urethra passed backwards towards the pubes into a fissure, which was covered in by a thin transverse fold of skin, from Fro. 374. 375- beneath which, urine flowed. The scrotum was large but bifid, and contained the testes (* Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1868). Treatment.—The chief annoyance connected with this deformity Treatment, being due to the constant dribbling of the urine, Messrs. Simon and Lloyd were induced to carry out an ingenious operation by which the urine might be carried into the rectum and the fissure subsequently closed, but the attempt failed and has not been re- peated. For particulars the reader may refer to the * Lancet ’ (1851 and 1852). Holmes has suggested a modification of Simon’s plan, and it is probably in this direction that some good may even- tually he found. In a case of epispadias, in a boy, recently under my care (Sept., 1875), in which the whole of the urethra down to the neck of the bladder was fissured, and in which consequently there was incontinence of urine, I tapped the urethra in the perineum in front of the prostate, and established an artificial urethral opening. By these means the urine passed through the perineum instead of above the pubes, and con- sequently could be caught and retained in a urinal, greatly to the patient’s comfort. Other surgeons, however, have devised means by which the exposed mucous covering of the bladder may be covered in, thereby adding to the comfort of the patient; and of these Wood, of King’s College, has been the most successful. He has operated in ten such cases. I Eclopion vesicle in mule. in female.