EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. 479 the bones, the hope of securing a good result without operative inter- ference is very slender; since, as a rule, dead bone exists in the joint Removal of to keep up irritation, and as long as it remains a recovery is very dead bone, improbable. It is true, Nature does much in many cases towards this end, but she rarely is competent to effect the cure without surgical aid. In the following cases these points are well seen:— Case.—Disease of the Knee-joint—Suppuration—Removal of Necrosed Bone from the Joint—Recovery with Anchylosis. James W—, set. 17, came under my care in May, 1866, for disease Example, in his right knee-joint of one year’s duration, which had followed a fall upon the part. Swelling appeared directly after the accident, attended by severe constitutional disturbance and local pain. Suppu- ration also rapidly followed, and several large openings made their appearance eight weeks after the accident. When I saw him, the joint was enlarged from inflammatory thickening of the soft parts, and was clearly undergoing anchylosis. The sinuses were discharging, and a probe passed into one readily detected dead bone in the joint. In September the man was admitted into Guy’s under my care, and on October 13tb, through a moderate incision made on the inner side of the patella, two flat pieces of what were clearly the articular facets of the tibia, were removed. Rapid recovery and firm anchylosis of the joint followed. Case.—Disease of the Knee-joint as a consequence of Articular Ostitis of Tibia—Removal of Sequestrum from Bone—Recovery with an Anchylosed Joint. Henry R—, ret. 14, came under my care at Guy’s Hospital on May Example. 1 17th, 1867, for extensive disease of the shaft of the right humerus u and head of the left tibia with sinuses which had existed for several l' years. The left knee had been enlarged from effusion for a year, (but had never suppurated. When admitted, there was necrosis of the shaft of the humerus and likewise of the head of the tibia, while dead bone was readily felt with a probe in both parts. In the tibia the bone was clearly near the joint, which was enlarged from expanded bone and thickening of the soft parts around. There was I no effusion into the joint, and hardly any movement in the articulation. In November, 1867, I removed a mass of diseased bone from the tibia, 1 and fixed the leg upon a splint. In January, 1868, I removed a | sequestrum from the arm, which included nearly the whole shaft of the | humerus, and a good recovery ensued. In six'months the patient left I the hospital with a stiff knee and a sound arm. Case.- -Disease of the Knee-joint as a result of Articular Ostitis ending in Necrosis—Amputation—Recovery. Edward L— act. 14, came under my care at Guy’s Hospital on Example September 8th, 1868, for disease in the left knee-joint of seven years’ standing which had been discharging for many years. On admission, the left knee-joint was completely disorganized and much enlarged;