409 FRACTTJKES OF THE ACETABULUM. Fig. 500. down to the lacerated urethra upon a grooved staff, and a rapid recovery took place after. Under all circumstances, the utmost quiet must be enforced, for if the surgeon is unable to restore the frac- tured bones to their normal position, at any rate, he must do nothing to render their displacement greater, or increase the risk of visceral injury. Where support by means of a bandage, strapping, or casing of gutta percha or some other substance gives comfort or seems called for, it should be applied; but, in general, absolute rest, and such treat- ment as the complication may require, are all that is necessary. In two cases, I have seen obstruction of the iliac artery associated with Obstruction fracture of the brim of the pelvis; in one, the vessel was so stretched ot,iliac as to cause laceration of its inner and middle coats and obstruction, y‘ which was followed by gangrene of the corresponding limb. In the other the obstruction lasted three weeks, when pulsation returned and the patient recovered. Fracture of the acetabulum, from the head of the femur being driven Fracture of against the bone, has Been recorded. Earle, in the nineteenth volume of acetabulum, the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans./ adduced a case in which the pelvis was broken into its three anatomical portions. Sir A. Cooper and Travers have recorded others. Moore, also, in the thirty-fourth volume of the same transactions, has given another with a drawing as figured here (Fig. 500). When the head is driven into the pelvis, as illustrated in the drawing, there will be deformity of the hip, ina- bility to move the limb, with pain in the attempt, and crepitus. Tra- vers believed that acute pain on pressure upon the projecting spine of the pubes, and inability on the part of the patient to maintain the erect posture after pelvic injury, are diagnostic of fissure of the acetabulum. A fracture of the lip of the acetabulum is probably present in such cases of dislocation of the hip as become displaced again after reduction ; the head of the bone, having nothing to restrain it, slipping out of its cup. In these cases, the reduction of the dislocation is usually attended with crepitus fol- lowed by re-dislocation on the removal of the extending force. It should be treated by fixed extension as in fracture of the thigh-bone and some circular pelvic pressure. This accident is more frequently Associated associated with dislocation of the head of the femur backwards than w’ith with any other. backward Fracture of the sacrum may be regarded clinically as that of the di8‘ocation- pelvis, but is always the result of direct violence. Fractures of the Lower Extremity. From hospital statistics these fractures appear to be more common Of lower than those of the upper extremity; but, as the majority of cases of frac- extremfiy. Symptoms Head of femur driven through acetabu- of tissured lum. ‘ Med.-Chir. Traus.,’vol. xxxiv. acetabulum.