DISLOCATIONS OP THE HIP-JOINT. 358 Size of rent in capsule. Exceptional cases of dislocation of hip. When manipula- tion fails, extension is to be used . Mode of usinsr extension. After- treatment. Old dislocations of the hip. the slightest pressure upon the head of the bone; and in the case of the girl from whom Fig. 458 was taken the head of the hone slipped into its position by simply flexing the leg on the thigh and the thigh on the pelvis, with such gentle pressure as I was applying for a preliminary diagnosis. In one case of severe injury to the joint that came under my care, where the bone was displaced on the dorsum, on attempting its reduction by manipulation the head of the bone slipped with such facility round the acetabulum as to illustrate every typical form of dislocation, and several intermediate or partial forms. In this case, however, reduction was subsequently readily obtained by thoroughly flexing the thigh upon the pelvis, and lifting the head of the femur from its false position by extension forwards. When the rent in the capsule is small, difficulties may he felt iu reduc- ing the dislocation, hut when large, little is usually experienced. At times reduction is thought to have been accomplished when re- dislocation appears after the limb has been left alone; and, under these circumstances, it is probable that the head of the hone had only par- tially been replaced through the rent in the capsule. In other cases of this kind which refuse to remain in sit'd, there is reason to believe that the lip of the acetabulum has been fractured, or, in young subjects, that the head of the femur has separated at the epiphysial line of junction with the neck. Still, without these explanations, cases are met with in which it is quite impossible to keep the limb in position after its re- duction. In exceptional cases, the reduction of the dislocation occurs when the patient is in bed, by some simple movement. I have seen several. When reduction by flexion has failed or is inapplicable, that by extension should be employed, and in the pubic form of dislocation, no other should be used. It should be practised with the patient under the influence of an anesthetic, and on his back, and as fol- lows :—The pelvis should be fixed by a perineal band well padded and adjusted, and the limb extended in the line of its position to draw the head of the bone out of its bed. The surgeon should then either ele- vate the bone to allow the muscles to act upon it, or abduct, adduct, or rotate inwards or outwards, according to the special want of the individual case. In some cases, the simple extension of the limb with the unbooted heel of the surgeon placed firmly in the perimeum will answer every purpose. After the reduction of a dislocation, the legs should be fastened to- gether, and no movement allowed for three weeks, and then only gentle movement, for if this rule be not attended to, re-dislocation may occur. In a case under my care of dislocation into the foramen ovale, in a young woman, after reduction had been effected, re-dislocation occurred on the tenth day, from crossing the leg over the opposite knee in attempting to cut the toe-nails of the affected limb. Splints are hardly called for in the majority of cases, although should secondary inflammation follow or much local mischief complicate the case, they should be applied, either with ice or hot fomentatious, the surgeon selecting the application that gives most relief. Old dislocations, in a general sense, should be left alone, since iu the hip, difficulties of reduction are always felt, and danger not rarely met with. During the first three weeks, reduction is rarely difficult, and may always be tried; indeed, within the month, good hopes attend the