DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 346 Attempts at reduction in old dislocations. After- treatment. After reducing old dislocations. Compound dislocation of elbow. wants of the individual case, guided by the known anatomy of the part. Occasionally extension of the forearm is required, or the forcible bend- Fig. ing of the forearm over the surgeon’s knee or thumb, but in the majority of early cases the joint may be moulded into its normal position. When some weeks have have been allowed to pass without reduction, consider- able force may be required to Dislocation of the bead of the radius back- break down the adhesions, wards. forcible flexion and extension being then applicable. Up to two months, any dislocation of the elbow may be reduced, or rather an attempt at reduction may be made. After that date when useful movement has become possible, the attempt had better not be entertained. When no movement exists, it is, however, justifiable, but no definite rule can be laid down on this point, since each case must be judged upon its own merits. I have reduced, after nine weeks, a dis- location of the bones of the forearm backwards, with an excellent result, and have failed after five. What would be justifiable under some circumstances would be unjustifiable in others, the age of the patient, his position or occupation, and necessities, having as great an influence in guiding the surgeon as the time that has elapsed after the accident, and the amount of useful movement in the joint. Wheuboth bones are displaced, or the ulna alone, the surgeon should grasp the forearm as a whole. When the radius is the bone displaced, the extending force should be applied from the hand. After the reduction of the dislocation, the arm should be kept in a splint and cold lotion or ice applied, according to the amount of in- flammation that ensues. When little inflammation follows, passive movement may be allowed in about ten days or a fortnight. After the reduction of a dislocation of the head of the radius forwards, there is usually great difficulty experienced in keeping the bone in its position. To effect this, I have found the forced flexion of the forearm the best, the wrist and forearm being bound by means of a bandage to the arm. In a recent case the benefit of this practice was well displayed. When reduction of a neglected dislocation has been effected, it is wise to fix tbe elbow on an angular splint for ten days or a fortnight and to apply cold water, and, after all inflammatory action has subsided, to allow of passive or, possibly, forcible movements, as a stiff elbow joint is a misfortune of no mean importance, and to prevent it measures may be employed which, under other circumstances, might be considered rash. In neglected cases, where reduction is beyond all hope, the surgeon may use a considerable amount of force to flex the forearm to a right angle, in which position it should be fixed. In compound dislocation of tbe elbow-joint wbere reduction is pos- sible and the wound small, tbe case may be treated as one of wounded joint, viz. by splints and the application of ice, good hopes existing of a sound recovery being secured with movement. When the wound is