204 CHRONIC ORCHITIS. Chronic syphilitic inflammation of testis. Characters. Prognosis. Treatment of chronic orchitis. Mercury. Mercury and pressure. peculiarities of this pathological condition. The affection is essen- tially chronic, as much so as the other forms of chronic orchitis, but is almost invariably confined to the body of the gland, and rarely affects the spermatic duct. It is quite painless in its nature, local and general, the patient bearing free manipulation without flinching, and often thinking little about his disease except from the increased size of the organ. The special sensation of the gland usually disappears at a very early stage of the disease, and there is rarely any constitutional dis- turbance accompanying its progress. It may or may not be associated with other symptoms of constitutional syphilis, but usually appears alone. The disease manifests itself locally in a special manner which claims attention. It usually affects the body of the testis and both testes at different periods of its progress, though rarely at the same time. It is almost always complicated by the presence of a vaginal hydrocele which at times increases to a considerable size, and much more so than in other forms of chronic orchitis. The most characteristic point of all, however, is the remarkably stony induration of the gland and its peculiar, irregular, nodular outline; small fibrous projections being distinctly visible from the body of the gland in some cases, while in others, loose bodies are felt in the tunica vaginalis. In the majority of cases this disease terminates by resolution, and apparently leaves the gland intact; although in many, a gradual wasting of the testicle is the result, which ends in atrophy, and, as a con- sequence, in sterility. In exceptional cases, suppuration with or with- out hernia testis may take place. The disease, too, when appa- rently cured, has a remarkable disposition to return on the slightest provocation. The Treatment of Chronic Orchitis, — There are few affections more ame nable to treatment than chronic orchitis, especially when taken early; and there are none which better prove the value of pressure and mercurials in procuring the absorption and disinte- gration of inflammatory products. In the common as well as in the syphilitic orchitis this opinion holds good; but, in the gouty, the treatment must be modified according to the special peculiarity of the patient. In a healthy subject with good powers and an unbroken constitution, any form of mercurial may be administered such as blue pill in four-grain doses, mercurial inunction, the oleate of mercury or the percliloride; but as the object of the surgeon is neither to salivate nor to bring the patient rapidly under the influence of the remedy, but rather to procure a lengthened and equal action of the drug upon the local disease, the dose should be carefully regulated. In my hands, the iodide of mercury given in one-grain doses, with five grains of Dover s powder twice a day, or the mercurial suppository has proved eminently beneficial, the testicle being well strapped up by common soap plaster. (See Fig. 383.) In a more cachectic patient in whom mercury may still be tolerated, the same treatment may be employed, though in smaller doses; and in others, the mercurial may be locally applied in the form of an ointment, or as an oleate dissolved in oleic acid in the proportion of five per cent. During this time tonics, such as quinine and iron, may be administered, as well as good living and fresh air \n certain examples, however, occurring in cachectic patients, it may