567 ANAESTHETICS. them out, however, but briefly, quoting from a lecture I had the honour of delivering at the Hunterian Society in 1870:— “ Chloroform as an aid to diagnosis stands second to no means which we have at our disposal. To the physician who has a difficult case of abdominal tumour, what facilities it gives him for its thorough jn investigation. Suspected tumours become phantoms ; so-called abdominal movable kidneys slide away; and indefinite conditions become clear tumours, and intelligible. With how much greater certainty a physician can think over a doubtful case, decide upon its nature, deliver his opinion, and treat it when he has adopted this means of investigation. In hysterical subjects, it renders a thorough abdominal examination a possibility, when no such previously existed; and in what class of cases, may I ask, is it more necessary to make a positive diagnosis than in this ? In my own practice, it enabled me on one occasion to make out a pregnancy when an ovarian tumour had been diagnosed by men whose authority was undoubted, and in a patient whose position in life rendered the suspicion of pregnancy almost a libel. Indeed the ovarian nature of the disease was looked upon as so decided, that my aid was sought solely for the operation. In this case an examination of the abdomen was impossible, from hysterical sensibility ; but under chloroform, all difficulties disappeared. To the physician-accoucheur may I not also assert it to be equally valuable for diagnostic purposes ? To answer this fully is out of my province; but 1 have known a case of cystic disease of the uterus, which was about to be operated upon as an ovarian tumour, made out by the use of the uterine sound, with the patient under chloroform, when an examination by the same instru- ment made before had failed to yield any such evidence. In the In children, surgical diseases of children is it possible to over-estimate its value ? With what gentleness can difficult examiuatious be now made of in- jured limbs; and with what certainty can we now apply our treat- ment ! In sounding for stone what facilities it affords ! In general surgery, what new fields has it not opened ? Where would ovariotomy have now been, may I ask, had not chloroform been in use ? Would it have been an established operation in surgery? Could it have been so successful ? The answers to these questions, I think are plain ; they must be in the negative. It is true the operation had been performed before its introduction ; it had been successful in a few cases, but it had almost fallen out of practice; its revival was due, without doubt, to chloroform, and its present established position to the general use of that drug. No operation requires more gentleness and nicety; and how could these essential points of practice be applied with a patient writhing under the agonies of an abdominal section ? To all abdominal surgery the same observations are applicable, although they may not tell, perhaps, with the same force. “ Let us now refer to another class of cases; to that large one in pl»8tic known as belonging to plastic surgery. How many cases of vesico- surgery, or recto-vaginal fistula were successfully treated by operation before chloroform was introduced ? At Guy’s Hospital I can find no record of such. The physician-accoucheur used to cauterise the margins of the fistula, it is true, but, I fear, with poor success; for I have never heard of a case of any size being so cured. At the present day these cases are now to be cured by operation with as much certainty as any other class. They have in truth been