194 HEMATOCELE. On the source _ 9n the source of the hlood.—A very common question with students of tlie blood is, as to the origin of the blood in these cases of liaematocele, and in hrematocele ^le 8Pontaneous cases all<i those following a strain or injury with an apparently sound testis, this question is difficult to answer with cer- tainty of accuracy. There can be little doubt, however, that a distinct rupture of some of the vessels, probably veins, which ramify upon the body of the testis, or on the tunica vaginalis, must have taken place. When occurring upon a hydrocele or after the operation of tapping, it is probably due to the distinct rupture or perforation of one of the large veins which ramify outside the tunica vaginalis, into its interior, or of one belonging to the body of the testis. Scarpa relates a case of liaematocele in which the spermatic artery was wounded, and Sir A. Cooper another in which a distinct rent in the tunica vaginalis was found on dissection. This latter condition is probably the most common. Treatment of Treatment.—The treatment of haemorrhage into the tunica vaginalis lisamatocele. testis, or cord differs in no respect from the treatment of haemorrhage into any other part of the body. In the very earliest period of its occurrence, rest in the horizontal posture, with the testicles well raised and the application of ice or cold lotion are the most efficient means to arrest the flow of blood and relieve pain. By such means, the blood may also be reabsorbed and all future mischief prevented. Should the blood, however, remain fluid for a long time, and no symptoms of re-absorp- tion or of inflammatory action manifest themselves, it is a sound prac- tice to draw off the fluid contents with a trocar and canula. I have had a case in which this course was adopted with good effect. If signs of inflammation appear soon after its occurrence, cold lotions and leeches, with the aid of saline purgatives, may occasionally be found efficient in arresting its progress, and to allow of the subsequent re-absorption of the effused blood. But should symptoms of suppuration Free incision, show themselves, or of the softening down of the coagula, a free in- cision into the cyst or tunica vaginalis is the only sound practice, the whole semi-solid contents being thoroughly turned out, and the interior • of the sac allowed to granulate. In old and chronic cases, with thick- ened sac walls, the same treatment is also effectual. I possess the records of many cases in which this plan was carried out with marked benefit. In one case of only four months’ duration, and in another of twenty-nine years, in which the tunica vaginalis was at least half an inch thick, and in both, a good recovery followed. I need hardly add that excision is rarely called for in the treatment of these cases, although owing to difficulties in the diagnosis it may occasionally have been had recourse to. I have seen several such instances, but beyond the loss of the organ no evil resulted. In old cases of heematocele in Excision. aged subjects, the practice of excision is probably the best; but in the young and middle-aged it cannot be advised. The treatment of htematocele of the cord is to be conducted on similar principles.