EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. 475 natural repair in patients who have good or even tolerably reparative powers, yet in those who have not, the operation of excision must naturally fail, since as much power is probably needed to effect a cure after excision as is demanded for the natural repair of an uncomplicated suppurating or disorganized joint. To these latter remarks, however, I am disposed to demur, and while ready to admit, that in all cases of disorganized hip-joint in which there is no disease of the bone to interfere with recovery, a Opinion as to natural cure may be fairly looked for, so long as the powers of the interference, patient keep up, and no signs of failure make their appearance; yet when these signs show themselves, or evidence is adduced that in the battle of disease the reparative are weaker than the morbid processes, and treatment fails to turn the scale in their favour, the expediency of performing excision becomes an open question, which facts must decide; although I may at once admit that I believe the operation under such circumstances, to be not only justifiable but highly advis- able. The removal of the source of irritation acts beneficially upon the patient, and many a case has, after the operation of excision, gone on to recovery, which unoperated upon would have eventually proved fatal, the patient being worn out by suppuration and exhaustive efforts to repair. For facts in reference to excision of the hip-joint I have resorted Statistics of to Hodges’ work, and also to a recent paper by Dr. R. R. Good, of Ken- excision ot tucky; the former giving us a statistical table of cases up to 1861, up‘ and the latter from 1861 to 1868. Hodges supplies 111 cases, 56 of which recovered, and 55 died. Good quotes 112 cases, 52 of which recovered, and 60 died; a little more than half of the whole number of cases thus proviug fatal. I have lost four out of twenty cases, and although I cannot say that in the sixteen surviving, all had useful limbs, I am within the truth when I assert that the majority had; while without the operation, recovery was impossible. Mr. Holmes, too, in his excellent work on ‘ Children’s Diseases,’ gives us 19 cases, of which, in a general way, one third died from the operation, auother third recovered with useful limbs, and the remain- ing third, although not recovering, derived great benefit from the operation. On analysing these cases as to the influence of age upon the opera- Analysis of tion, some valuable facts may be recorded, andout of 46 of Hodges’cases tlie 8,atist>cs operated upon under ten years of age, 15 died, or 33 per cent.; of 37 *"eUence °f cases between eleven and twenty years of age, 21 died, or 57 per cent.; b ’ of twelve cases operated upon between twenty-one and thirty years of age, 7 died, or 60 per cent.; and of 6 cases operated upon over thirty years of age, 5 died, or 83 per cent. The analysis of Good’s cases indicates the same truths, for of the cases operated upon under twelve years of age, 40-6 per cent, died; between twelve and twenty years of age, 60 per cent, died; and between twenty and fifty-eight years of age, 76 per cent. died. ° J Excision for hip disease in young life, therefore, is by no means a Deduction tatal operation, two out of three recovering; while from ten to thirty drawn from years of age, something less than half recover, but after that period it 8tatistics- is full ot danger. The operation of excision, like amputation, litho- tomy, or any other great operation, is more dangerous as age in- creases. The important fact that children beyond infancy bear severe operations well should ever be before us, though it is of equal import-