427 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. ice or cold lotion should he applied, for, as a direct consequence of the accident blood is very apt to he effused, and as a secondary effect, synovial inflammation with effusion is almost sure to ensue. It has generally been the custom to raise the heel with a view to Elevation of destroy the action of the extensor muscles, hut it is now more gene- rally believed that no good is derived from such a measure; as a conse- quence the horizontal position of the limb is usually employed, the body being raised. The fragments should be brought together at the same time as much as possible by the fingers of the surgeon, and later on by some apparatus. To do so, however, before the joint itself has recovered from the effects of the injury, while blood exists to any ex- tent, or the synovial capsule is distended with inflammatory effusion, is not wise; since any attempt to draw the bones together under these circumstances, can only result in tilting forward the surfaces that are required to he brought into apposition, with no good effect. For a few days, therefore, until all inflammatory action has subsided, Rest, the surgeon should rest satisfied by simply pressing the parts together with his fingers, and when this result has been secured, the two por- tions may be drawn together by means of strips of plaster diagonally applied, of india-rubber bands covered with washleather attached to hooks which have been inserted at intervals of an inch on either side of the splint, or, by what is better, by means of elastic compression, as Elastic corn- shown in Fig. 523. pression. Fig. 523. Splint for fracture of the patella with elastic compression. A. Cord with tent fastener to regulate extension. B. Band or strapping bound lo thigh. Malgaigne’s hooks, which are composed of four claws drawn together Malgaignc’s by a screw, have been much employed, and are doubtless effectual, but kooks, from the fact that they penetrate the soft parts and painfully and for- cibly draw the broken fragments together they are objectionable. Good results have, however, been reported from their use. As soon as all inflammatory action of the joint has subsided and the Bavarian hones are fairly in position, such an immoveable apparatus as the splint, flannel Bavarian splint may be applied, the patella being left exposed or not as the surgeon may think fit. When the bone is bandaged over care must be taken not to press upon it, as I have known secondary suppuration with necrosis, and joint complication of a serious nature thus ensue. Erichsen uses, as a rule, the starch bandage and speaks highly of it. He applies it over a pad fixed above the fractured bone, with a figure-of-8 bandage. Whatever apparatus is employed, it should be kept on for five or six weeks at least, and when removed, some light leather or felt casing should he substituted. To allow the patient