320 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. Wound of tibial artery. Division of tbe tibialis posticus tendon. Of tibialias anticus tendon. Of the peronei. applied to the puncture and fixed by strapping, this dressing being left for three days. If any suspicion exist of the posterior tibial artery having been wounded, as indicated by arterial haemorrhage and blanch- ing of the foot, the dressing should be left on for at least a fortnight and all mechanical treatment postponed. It is, however, an exceptional circumstance for any harm to follow the puncture of the artery. Little, with all his experience, informs us that he has only once seen any trouble from this circumstance. After the operation the foot in its deformed position should be bound to a flexible metal splint till the immediate effects of the opera- tion have subsided, after which the mechanical treatment may be com- menced. Division of the posterior tibial tendon should be performed with the child upon its back, with the limb to be operated upon rotated well outwards. The surgeon should take charge of the foot and his assistant of the knee. The tendon should be divided about one inch, or one and a half inch above the extremity of the inner malleolus. In thin subjects, on abducting the foot, the tendon may be felt at the spot indicated; but in fat persons, and when the tendon cannot be made out, the surgeon knows it lies along the inner edge of the tibia, “ exactly midway between the anterior and posterior borders of the leg on its inner aspect.” At this spot the knife should be inserted perpendicular to the surface through the fascia for about half an inch, this opening in the fascia being made sufficiently free to admit of the introduction of the probe- pointed knife, which must next be inserted. This knife can then be introduced perpendicularly close to the bone, between it and the tendon to be divided, when its edge should be turned towards the tendon and the operation completed by a slight sawing movement. It is not always necessary to change knives during this operation, some opera- tors, indeed, never do so. It is safer, however, to adopt the practice in fat subjects when some uncertainty exists as to the exact position of the tendon. As soon as the tendon has been divided, a dossil of lint should be applied, as in the former operation. Some surgeons prefer to divide the tendon of the long flexor muscle at the same time; as a rule, this is unnecessary. Division of the anterior tibial tendon can be performed with the patient lying on his back and the foot extended, the tendon being in this way made prominent in front of the inner malleolus. The knife should be inserted at this point behind the tendon and its edge turned for- ward, when the tight cord can be divided—the foot being at once flexed, and the punctured wound covered with lint and strapping. It ought to be kept in a splint for several days, after division of the tendo Achillis. When all these tendons are divided at the same operation, the after- treatment must be the same. Division of the peronei tendons for talipes valgus is easily accom- plished by adducting the foot and introducing the knife behind the external malleolus, between the tendons and the fibula—the tendons being cut on turning the edge of the knife towards them with a salv- ing movement. Some surgeons advocate a higher division of these tendons to obviate their retraction, union taking place between the tendon and the sheath.