LITHOTOMY. 118 Adenoid tumours. Case. When stone sott. In very large stones. A second stone may form. Median opernt.on. Mode of performance. tis it can readily be run along the straight or curved staff into the bladder, and form a certain guide to the introduction of the forceps. Martineau was very fond of the hlunt gorget in most cases, and I am tempted to think, that in adult subjects it might now be used more frequently with advantage. I have found the greatest benefit from its use in several cases. When the prostatic enlargement encroaches on the bladder, the vesi- cal lobe may be lacerated by the blades of the forceps and torn away; and prostatic adenoid tumours may likewise be enucleated. Key noticed this in 1837; Fergusson brought the subject forward at the Patho- logical Society in 1848 ; Cadge exhibited two specimens in 1862 ; and in 1878 I reported two others. I removed one in the fork of my forceps, an inch in diameter, on January 19th, 1875, when operating for stone upon a man, set. 67, with a mulberry calculus one inch and a half in diameter, and the man made an excellent recovery. The second was from a patient, set. 70, who was operated upon in February, 1876; the prostatic tumour being enucleated during the extraction of a large stone with the forceps, and the recovery was complete. When the stone is soft, friable and comes away piecemeal, it is wise to wash the bladder well out with a stream of tepid water; and, at times, when the stone is apparently held by the bladder in such a position as forbids its being caught by the forceps, a stream of water through the bladder may dislodge it and allow of its removal. Very large stones should be crushed through the perineal wound before their removal, and a short strong lithotrite is the best instru- ment for that purpose. In moderately large stones, when the wound in the neck of the bladder is not large enough, Liston’s advice should be followed, and an incision made on the opposite side of the neck of the bladder by passing a blunt-pointed bistoury into the wound, guided by the finger, and turning its edge towards the right tuber ischii. Martineau says that he likewise often enlarged the inner wound two or three times, to facilitate the escape of the stone. When a second stone forms in the bladder, and another operation is demanded, there is no reason why it should not be performed in the same position and manner as the first, and with equal success. I have recently at intervals of three andfifteenmonths had to cut a patient, set. 60, three times for stone, removing on tbe first occasion seven calculi, on the second two, and on the third two, with good results. The stones averaged on each occasion more than an inch in diameter. The patient did as well after the second and third opera- tions as after the first, and is now quite well. The Norwich statistics, as compiled by Mr. C. Williams, show that a third operation may be performed with like success. (‘Lancet’, May 18th, 1878). Lateral lithotomy has hitherto been described, and, without doubt, as a general operation is the best; nevertheless, other operations have been suggested and adopted. Among these the so-called median operation demands notice. It is the old Italian or Marian method, based upon the precept “ a small incision, much dilatation,” and has been revived by Allarton. It is performed as follows :—The operator first introduces an ordinary grooved staff into the bladder, and gives it to an assistant. He then passes his left forefinger into the rectum, with the palmar sur-