603 AMPUTATIONS OP THE FOOT. spectively resting on the well-marked bony projection of the meta- tarsal bone of the little toe, and the base of that of the great toe placed one inch in front of the tubercle of the scaphoid. Half an inch in front of these points an incision with its convexity downwards is to be made across the dorsal aspect of the foot, dividing all the soft parts down to the bones by a second cut. The plantar flap is then to be made by two lateral incisions carried from the base of the dorsal flap along the metatarsal bones, and joined by a curved incision made on a line beyond the ball of the great toe. This flap is to be longer on the inner than on the outer side, because the internal cuneiform bone is thicker than the cuboid, and it is to include all tlie tissues down to the bones. Disarticulation has next to be performed, and this is best done from the dorsal region when the parts are put firmly on the stretch by depressing the toes. The operator then places the point of the knife on the outside of the joint and carrying its edge inwards he opens it as far as the third metatarsal bone. Around here he carries the knife half a line forwards, incises almost transversely, and thus reaches the second metatarsal. Here he must, above all things, re- member the general precept, not to engage his knife in the joint, but to work only with its point, and to confine himself to the division of the ligaments. When this instrument has reached the second metatarsal bone, he quits this side of the articulation to attack the inner side. This is well done by inserting the knife between the shafts of the first and second metatarsal bones with its edge upwards, and with a backward and forward motion dividing the ligaments holding the second bone in place, this fact being indicated by the sudden loss of resistance which the surgeon feels when pressing the toes down- wards, and by the sudden separation of the tarsus from the meta- tarsus. Disarticulation is then to be completed and the plantar flap shaped by cutting forwards close to the bone. A long dorsal flap may be made when the plantar flap must be short.” The parts are then to be brought to- gether by sutures, after securing the vessels by torsion or the ligature and cut- ting off ragged tendons. The foot should be fixed upon a splint, with the leg semi- flexed upon its outer side, and treated on ordinary principles. The stump left after this operation is good, and the operation one that ought to be performed when the toes and metatarsal bones alone require removal. Chopart’s amputation Chopart’s is an excellent and valuable operation ; and should always he per- a'"P»tation. formed in preference to any higher measure when disease or injury is confined to the fore part of the foot. The great theoretical afd dU-g objection biought against it—the subsequent drawing up of the Vantages, heel and the consequent pointing of the stump—has really little weight, since it can be provided against by the division of the tendo Achilhs at the time of the operation, or subsequently, should the diffi- In “any ca!f °* °™> the tendons have never been divided. My colleague Mr. Cock, who has performed this operation Fig. 6S2. Stump after Hey’s amputation From Hey’s work.