6 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. the diseased surface with a blunt knife or the handle of a scalpel, fol- lowed by the free cauterisation of the exposed surface; although in exceptional cases, excision may be performed. In milder forms, caustics are applicable, the potassa l'usa being the best, dissolved in equal parts of water. The galvano-caustic or thermo-cautery is, however, superior to any. One of the worst cases of lupus of the nose that I have seen was that illustrated by Fig. 301. It had existed for years, and was cured in a month, after one free application of the galvanic cautery, every ulcerating tubercle of unhealthy tissue being freely destroyed. No caustic treatment, however, should be employed as long as the parts are inflamed. Tonic treatment also, must not be neglected; while as a palliative application, cod-liver oil is very beneficial. Arsenic is also highly com- mended by Messrs. Hunt and others, and Donovan’s solution when there is any syphilitic taint. Lupus The lupus non-exedens may be regarded as an early stage of the lupus non-exedens. Gxe(|elis. both have a papular origin and become tubercular—the tuber- cles ulcerating at a later stage. Epithelial Epithelial cancer and rodent cancer cancer. may attack the nose, the former usually appearing at first as a warty growth which subsequently ulcerates; the latter as a firm, uncoloured, solitary nodule, which excoriates, then scales and bleeds, and finally ulcerates, deepening and extending the scabbed excoriation. In the epithelial cancer, the margin of the sore is more irregular and thicker than in the rodent ulcer, although until the lymph glands are affected it is somewhat difficult to distinguish between the two. Indeed, the epi- thelial cancer may be for long undistinguishable from the rodent cancer. The treatment of both, however, consists in the total destruction of the ulcerating surface and its edges, by cautery, escharotics, or the knife. I have treated many of the epithelial forms by means of the galvanic cautery with gratifying success. The disease, like other cancers, is, however, liable to return. Rhinoscopy. Rhinoscopy. The examination of the nasal cavity may be made through the nos- trils by means of a speculum, or through the posterior nares by means of a mirror introduced behind the soft palate after the same fashion as in laryngoscopy, the parts being reflected from the mirror which is illuminated by sun or artificial light. Much aid may also be obtained by means of the finger. Czermak speaks highly of the value of a small mirror introduced through the nostril, which should be well illuminated. I have, however, found all the help I wanted in posterior rhinoscopy, taking care to draw forward with great gentleness the soft palate by means of forceps, but this method of examination is always difficult. Diseases of the Nostrils causing obstruction. Nare3 These are very common, and for such the surgeon is often consulted, obstructed by In the infant, such a condition may be the result of congenital syphilis, disease. which will be indicated by the histoi'y of the case and by the concomi- tant symptoms. The snuffles in infancy are very characteristic, and should always direct the practitioner to look out for some syphilitic affection. In isolated cases, such a symptom may be the only one of hereditary syphilis, and, by proper treatment, it may be cured without any other complication making its appearance ; although, as a rule, if looked for, some cutaneous affection will be observed. A grain of grey