34 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Size of tube. . Artificial respiration. Removal of the canula. Causes of non-re-esta- blishment of respiration. been in tbe habit of opening the trachea immediately below the cricoid ring, and never have hesitated to divide the latter when more room is required. In many instances, I have gone through the isthmus of the thyroid, and never had any reason to regret it j nay, I am almost tempted to believe that the dangers of its division are really theoretical and practically may be disregarded. Of this I am con- vinced, that the nearer the tracheal opening is to the lower border of the cricoid ring, the better is the operation. If the opening be too small at the first puncture, a second should be made rather than grope about with retractors and instruments to find the original opening. The tracheal tube need not be very large, for Mr. Marsh has demon- strated (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Report/ vol. iii) that while the cricoid car- tilage is the smallest part of the air-tube, the rima glottidis is smaller. Under all circumstances, the operation should be completed, and, even in apparently hopeless cases, artificial respiration should be kept up through the wound. Mr. Holmes has recorded a case of Mr. Tatum’s in which it was maintained for two hours with ultimate success. When tracheotomy has been performed for thyroidal tumours press- ing upon the trachea, the surgeon should have at hand a long perforated tube, small enough to be introduced through the canula, as the tumour may so overlap the trachea as to cause obstruction below the point at which the operation is performed. For the want of such an instrument, I lost a patient whom I saw with Dr. Risdon Bennett, while hy its aid, I was enabled to save another for several days, the elastic tube being pressed through the canula, past the obstruction, into the lungs. I have had such a tube adapted to my canula as a pilot to introduce it. It is almost needless to say, that the canula should be removed from the trachea as soon as respiration has been re-established by tbe natural passage, and that it should on no account be left in more than three months. When required longer, a new one should be substituted, since the canula rapidly undergoes oxidization in the trachea and becomes liable to break. In a patient of my own, where the tube had been worn six months, half its circumference close to the neck shield had been destroyed, and the slightest violence would have broken tbe instrument in the trachea. The vulcanite canula is good for constant use. Mr. T. Smith, in an excellent paper (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1865), has given a good summary of the obstacles to the re-establishment of natural respiration after tracheotomy, and he has shown, that the chief causes are a narrowing of the passage of the larynx by granulations around the canula, and the impairment or loss of those functions of the muscles of the larynx which regulate the admission of air through the rima. There may, likewise, be a persistence of tbe original cause which necessitated the performance of the operation, the effects of the original disease, or the closure of the vocal cords from the cicatrization of old ulceration. In three cases now under my observation in which tracheotomy has been performed for chronic ulceration of the larynx, the rima has so contracted as to be impervious in two, and in one, the opening is so small as to be insufficient for respiration, although enough for speaking purposes. To help the surgeon to judge of the patency of the glottis, Luer has invented a bullet valve to be adapted to the orifice of the canula; and Mr. T. Smith an india-rubber one which seems equally efficient, and is