EPIDIDYMITIS. 198 Eight testicle most frequently attacked. As to the cause of epididymitis. Treatment. Suspension. obedient to the same law, although this result may not be very common. On the dictum of Sir A. Cooper, it has generally been asserted, that the left testis is more often attacked in cases of epididymitis than the right, hut Mr. Curling, in his admirable treatise on the testes, dis- proved the truth of this assertion and showed that in 138 cases of this affection the right testis was the seat of the disease in 78 examples, the left in 49, and both glands in 11. My own figures, too, bear out the truth of these conclusions, for out of 73 consecutive examples of epididy- mitis, 35 were of the right organ, 25 of the left, 4 double, while in 9 the fact was not stated. The right organ is, therefore, more often affected than the left, while in hydrocele, the left side is the most fre- quent seat of disease. With respect to the cause of the disease I took some pains during the eight years I was registrar at Guy’s to find out if the general opinion was correct that the epididymitis usually supervened on the disappearance of the urethral discharge, and was relieved on its reap- pearance ; or, if it could be traced to any peculiarity in the treatment of the gonorrhoea, to any neglect, or other cause. I have to confess that I was not able to connect these phenomena in any way, as the epididymitis made its appearance during all stages of the complaint, and under every kind of condition; when injections were employed, and when they were not, when copaiba and cubebs had been taken, and when they had not, although in some cases the diminution of the discharge and appearance of the epididymitis were coincident; but such a result is only consistent with the general rule, that an inflam- mation set up in one part tends to relieve an inflammation existing in another, and more particularly in a neighbouring tissue. The disease, however, appeared in the majority of cases of neglected gonorrhoea, and in others, in which strong injections had been recklessly employed; but more particularly in the cachectic and irregularly living patients who had been utterly regardless of their affection, and taken no means to keep the testes well suspended. Treatment of epididymitis.—The treatment of this affection must depend upon the intensity of the inflammation and the severity of the local and constitutional symptoms which it produces. Rest in the horizontal posture with elevation of the testes or even of the pelvis, active purgatives, with saline medicines combined in acute cases with tartar emetic or colchicum wine are advantageous; the local application of ice, hot poppy fomentations, or swathing the parts in cotton wool, are often sufficient to check the disease at its onset, and prevent its passing into a chronic stage. It is also a wise measure to administer an opiate at night. When the local symptoms and pain are very severe, leeches may he applied to the neck of the tumour, or one of the turgid veins in the scrotum opened. The use of mercury does not appear to be of much value, except as a purge. If the patient, however, from social reasons, objects or is unable to keep at rest, the parts must be well supported by a suspensory bandage and a very efficient suspensor is formed by a handkerchief folded cross- ways in a triangle, the apex of which is well braced up posteriorly by a piece of tape, or bandage, and the base attached firmly to a band brought round the waist. The same treatment must then be pursued as we have already indicated. (Fig. 379.)