429 FRACTURES OF THE LEG. Fig. 524. Of fibula alone. Pott’s fracture. broken. I have seen more than one patient walk upon the fractured limb directly after the accident, and in one case, the man went up a whole flight of stairs to his ward with hut a slight limp. In another, under care in 1874, a woman with a fractured tibia and fibula went about for a week. In a medico-legal point of view, these facts are important. When the shaft has been sepa- rated at its upper epiphysis, some arrest of growth may take place; and such a result is illustrated in Fig. 524. Fracture of the fibula is more common than that of the tibia, particularly in its lower third, and I believe in many examples of what are called bad sprains, a fracture exists. In the upper two thirds, the fracture is usually caused by direct violence; iq the lower third by indirect, such as a lateral twist of the foot. As often as not it is associated with a forcible eversion of the foot. With pedal inversion, the extremity of the tibia is mostly broken off. When with this fracture the foot is displaced outward, and its outer edge raised, the accident is known as “ Pott’s fracture ” (Fig. 465), and under these circumstances the external liga- ment remains entire, the force being concen- trated against the fibula from two to three inches above the malleolus; the internal ligament, however, is ruptured, or the inner mallelous is fractured. Displacement of the foot is not ne- cessarily an attendant upon the fracture. It seems to be the result of some continuation of the primary fracturing force or of some addi- tional force, such as that of an attempt to walk. In the indirect fracture, the line of fracture is probably oblique, the obliquity being determined by the direction of the force. Diagnosis.—In fracture of either of the leg-bones alone, the diagnosis may be somewhat difficult, and more particularly when no displace- ment is present. Crepitus may at times be made out by a forcible attempt to move or bend the lower fragments, or, by some sudden in- version or eversion of the foot, but the surgeon should be careful in trying for this not to do harm. Local pain, however, caused by pressure with the thumb over the seat of fracture, and linear ecchymosis a few days after the accident are valuable helps to diagnosis in these as in all other kinds of fracture. Protracted or repeated examinations of the injured limb should always be avoided, they only add to the mischief. Treatment.—In fractures of either of these bones, a hatnral splint Treatment is always found in the sound bone, consequently any shortening or deformity rarely follows the accident. What the surgeon has to do is, simply to apply some splint to ensure rest to the broken bone and to the muscles that move the foot—to the inside of the leg when the fibula is broken (Fig. 526), and to the outside when the tibia (Fig. 525); the splints should have a foot-piece. In fractures of the lower third of the fibula, the foot may be drawn inwards, the bandage being applied Arrest of growth in shaft of right tibia (1 inch), with bowing of fibula, following injury to up- Eer epiphysis two years efore, in child, set. 8. Diagnosis. Local pain. Linear ecchy- mosis.