19 WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. Again, when the cut is just above the thyroid cartilage, the epiglottis Epiglottis may be divided, and this falling into the larynx may cause fatal dyspnoea. cu ' To prevent this a stitch should be inserted into the divided portion and the parts adjusted. The same result may take place when any portion of the orifice of the larynx has been detached. Indeed all loose bodies likely to obstruct respiration should be fixed. Emphysema is. by no means an uncommon complication of cut throat when the respiratory tract has been opened, and is not, as a rule, a dangerous occurrence. It is more common when the external wound is small. Inflammation of the air-tubes and lungs is the secondary danger Secondary of wounds of the throat involving the air-passages; and, when the an»ers- pharynx or oesophagus has been opened this risk is aggravated by the possible introduction of food into the trachea. Purulent infiltration of the cellular tissue of the neck may also ensue, or oedema of the glottis; and, at a later date, the air-passages may be obstructed by the cicatrization of the wound or the contraction of the trachea. In exceptional cases a permanent fistulous opening may be left. The immediate danger of a wound in the throat consequently depends General (1) on the quantity of blood lost; (2) on the risk of suffocation from summary, that blood flowing into the air-tube; (3) the danger of suffocation by tissues divided and partially separated from their connections obstruct- ing the larynx. The secondary dangers are those of oedema of the larynx and inflammation of the air-passages, and, later on, from sub- sequent narrowing of the divided tube by the contraction of new tissue around it. Treatment.—The first duty of the surgeon under all circumstances Treatment, is to arrest haemorrhage. Arteries ought to be ligatured or twisted, l. Arrest as all deep veins when moderate pressure fails to check the flow of haemorrhage, blood. A wounded artery or vein should be ligatured above and below the wound. A small wound in the internal jugular vein must be tied with a fine thread. The second duty of the surgeon is to prevent suffocation. He should 2. Prevent see that the respiratory orifice is kept clear of blood or of any divided suffocation, structure such as the tongue or epiglottis. Coagula ought to be speedily removed, and respiration encouraged by artificial means when natural processes have failed. When the larynx or trachea has been wounded, the aim of the 3. Adapt the surgeon should be to keep the divided pieces of the tube in continuity divided tube and not to allow the upper portion to overlap the lower, and thus iu Position- obstruct the respiration; at the same time, care must be taken to keep the wounded parts sufficiently open to allow of the escape of the mucus which is always profuse, and to permit the free ingress of air. If the wound is very extensive, and difficulties arise in carry- Sutures, ing out the above indications, sutures may be introduced; but it must be left to the surgeon’s judgment to decide when they may be neces- sary, according to the exigencies of the individual case. In large wounds where the parts cannot be kept together, a suture is often of immense benefit, and sutures when applied should be put in firmlv, including often the whole thickness of the tissues. Their object can only be to fix the divided parts in position, and to prevent, by their sudden movement, any mechanical obstruction to the respiratory act. To do this effectually, the measures employed should be boldly