563 ANAESTHETICS. aperture of the larynx. Such patients become blue in the face, and die suffocated, not through the direct action of the chloroform, but from the mechanical privation of air,” unless the tongue be well drawn forwards, or chin tilted upwards. Anaesthetics affect the brain of different people in as many ways as drunkenness. One will he quarrelsome, a second violent, a third sen- timental, and others maudlin, melancholic, or merry. In epileptic subjects, 1 have seen patients pass through some epileptic convulsions during their progress towards narcosis. The best rules for the administration of chloroform, ether, or any anaesthetic are those given by the Chloroform Committee of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, 1864. It was my privilege to act as one of the members of that body, and all my subsequent experience has convinced me of the value of the suggestions then laid down. I quote them in full with only a few modifications. Rules relating to the Administration of Chloroform, or other Anaesthetics. Chloroform should on no account he given carelessly or by the Rules for inexperienced; and, when complete insensibility is desired, the attention adnunistra- of its administrator should be exclusively confined to the duty he has Esthetic undertaken. Under no circumstances is it desirable for a person to give chloro- form to himself. It is not advisable to give an anesthetic after a long fast, or soon As to food, after a meal, the best time for its administration being four or five hours after food has been taken. If the patient is much depressed, there is no objection to his taking Depression, a small quantity of brandy, wine, or ammonia, before commencing the inhalation. Provision for the free admission of air during the patient’s narcotism Fresh air. is absolutely necessary. The recumbent position of the patient is preferable; the prone posi- Position, tion is inconvenient to the administrator, but entails no extra danger. In the erect or sitting posture, there is danger from syncope. Sudden elevation or turning of the body should he avoided. An apparatus is not essential to safety if due care be taken in giving inhaler, the anmsthetic. Free admixture of air with the anaesthetic is of the first importance; and, guaranteeing this, any apparatus may be em- ployed. If lint, or a handkerchief, or a napkin is used, it should he folded as an open cone, or held an inch or an inch and a half from the face. Chloroform should invariably be given slowly. Sudden increase of To be given the strength of the anaesthetic is most dangerous. Three and a half slov'1y- per cent, is the average amount, and per cent., with 95£ of atmo- spheric air, is the maximum of the anaesthetic which can he required; given cautiously at first, the quantity within this limit being slowly increased according to the necessities of the case, the administrator being guided more by its effect on the patient than by the amount exhibited. Ether may be given more boldly. The administrator should watch the respiration of his patient and must keep one hand free for careful observation of the pulse.