AMPUTATIONS AT THE FOREARM AND HAND. 593 to any higher operation, when amputation of the forearm is imperative, if the condition of the soft parts will allow. By this operation an excellent stump is obtained, and, as in other amputations at joints, with less constitutional disturbance, and probably less risk to life than after other methods of amputation. I have had a patient up and about on the seventh day after such an operation, the wound having united without any traumatic fever or other disturbance. It should be performed by the mixed method of amputating, by anterior and posterior skin semi-circular flaps, beginning and ending at the lower extremities of the condyloid ridges, the muscles being divided transversely on completing the disarticulation (Fig. 620). In the drawing of the stump (Fig. 621) the posterior flap was made longer than the anterior, in order that the cicatrix might be out of harm’s way. I have performed 'this operation on six occasions, and the result in all was so good that 1 cannot too strongly advocate it whenever the injury or disease will allow; in fact, it ought to be per- formed whenever enough integument can be saved to cover the bone, and the disease or injury for which amputation is called for has not attacked the humerus. Amputation at the Forearm. This is comparatively a rare operation, modern surgeons doing their Amputation utmost to save the hand. It is consequently only performed when through the the hand is hopelessly crushed, or so extensively diseased as to forbid forearm, any other treatment being entertained. At Guy’s Hospital it was performed only eighty-four times in thirty years ending 1874—on forty-four occasions for injury, nine patients dying, or oue in five; and on forty occasions for disease with five deaths, or one case in eight, the operation being performed in the very worst cases. Amputation of the forearm ought always to be performed by the mixed method; the one by transfixing being very unsatisfactory, the many tendons, &c., of the part causing ragged flaps, and thus favouring suppuration. Two well-cut and fairly long semi-circular skin flaps and a clean circular section of the muscles are preferable to the flap operation, and Fig. 622. Amputation of forearm by mixed method. yield a good stump (Fig. 622). The skin is usually too thin for one long skin flap, and there are too many tendons for a Teale’s. Amputation at the Wrist-joint. I have never performed this operation, nor seen it done; but I have At wris’ seen two cases in which it had been performed years before for injury, joint, and in both, the stumps were constant sources of trouble to their owners during the winter months, from their being the seat of chilblains and vol. II. 33