simulate that of dislocation. The mistake, how- FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. Prep. 1107 s”. 395 been replaced. In the case illustrated in Fig. 483, a capital arm existed. Fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus below the tuberosities, is, however, probably the most common form of accident, and the line of fracture may he transverse or oblique (Fig. 484). In it, when the bone is broken above the insertion of the pectoral muscle—its usual seat—the lower frag- ment is drawn inwards towards the chest, whilst the upper fragment is drawn upwards and ouhuards by the muscles that are inserted into the tuberosities. The bone projects forward or backward according to the direction of the fracture, the direction de- pending greatly upon that of the force. The more oblique the line of fracture, the greater the de- formity. Impaction of the broken fragments may occur in this as in the last fracture, the lower usually penetrating the upper. When, after a separation of the upper epiphysis or fracture through the tuberosities or neck of the bone, the upper end of the diapliysis or the lower fragment of the broken bone is drawn inward and forward by the pectoral muscles, the case may ever, should not be made, as in the early period of the accident increased mobility of the bone and crepitus should be enough to indicate its nature; and, in the later period when the deformity produced by the end of the lower fragment is visible, the accident is palpable. Treatment.—The nature of the accident having been ascertained and Treatment, the question of impaction or non-impaction decided, the treatment becomes simple, for in the impacted fracture whether of the anatomical or surgical neck, the aim should be to keep the impacted bones in position and to prevent their being loosened so that natural processes may effect a cure in a month or six weeks with a limited degree of deformity; and, in a non-impacted fracture, the first aim is to bring the hones into as good apposition as possible, and to keep them there by means of splints and position. In doing this the tendency of the fracture has to be considered, w'hich is that the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the pectoral muscle, and the upper fragment outwards by the scapular muscles. The best plan to carry out these objects is to fix the arm between any inside right angular and outside straight splints, the former extending from the axilla to the wrist, and the latter to the elbow, the two being bound well together. It is a dangerous practice simply to place the forearm in a sling and bind the arm to the side. When much injury to the soft parts or any wound exists, it is an excellent plan to draw the arm outward from the body at half a right angle and to rest it on the splint with the forearm partially flexed, care being taken that the lower fragment is not drawn too far inward, or to bind it on Stromeyer’s cushion. At other times, a good gutta-percha, felt, or leather casing, moulded to the shoulder and arm is very efficient. Erichsen advises a bent Fig. 484. Of surgical neck. May simulate dislocation. Fracture of the sur- gical neck of the humerus.