388 ON UNUNITED FRACTURES. Resection only exceptionally required. Bigelow’s operation. Union becoming disunion. Deformity after union. Treatment. parts should not be kept at perfect rest. I have seen fractures of the leg which would not otherwise unite, do so after patients were up on their legs, the fractured bones being well supplied with iron splints, &c.’ (MS. Lect.). When these means fail, the ends of the hone may be well rubbed together to excite action before the re-application of splints, or subcutaneously scored with a tenotomy knife, while in still older cases the bones may he fastened together by means of wire sutures, or drilled and secured with ivory pegs, the credit of this latter suggestion being due to Dieffenbach. Dr. Physick, of New York, years ago (1804) suggested the introduction of a seton between the ends of the broken bones, and Norris reports that good success has followed the practice, 54 out of 72 cases being successful. The object of the treatment is to excite local action between the fragments, and when this is secured, the seton may be removed. With the same view Malgaigne introduced acupuncture needles between the bones, and Miller and M. Blandin subcutaneously scraped with a tenotomy knife the ends of the bones or the connective tissue. Resection has also been practised, and, according to Norris, with success in thirty-seven out of sixty-four cases. The operation, how- ever, is formidable, and should only be undertaken where there is no hope of minor measures being successful, the ends of the fragments being far apart, and the condition of the limb such as to render some risk justifiable to gain the desired end. I have performed this operation for ununited fractures of the femur and humerus with excellent results. Dr. H. J. Bigelow, of Harvard, has, however, met with considerable success in detaching the periosteum for about half an inch from the extremities of the affected hone with the muscles, taking off the ends of the bones and securing the resected portions together by strong wire passed through half the thickness of the shaft of either fragment; the periosteal flaps may also be united by sutures. The limb should then be fixed on a splint. The wire can be left in place without fear from two to six months. He cured ten out of eleven cases where this operation was performed. (‘ American Journ. of Med. Sciences,’ 1867.) It occasionally happens that a fracture which had united becomes disunited after fever, scurvy, or other enfeebling cause, and I have had one very marked case of this in the person of a young lady who had her thigh fractured abroad, and subsequently became the subject of tropical fever. In her case, although the bond of union completely gave way, she subsequently obtained a firm limb by means of local immobility and constitutional tonics. These cases ought to be classed with others in which the cicatrices of burns or old ulcers break down under some enfeebling influence, and heal under tonic and general hygienic treatment. In the treatment of all these cases time ought not to be estimated too closely. The deformities that follotv badly united fractures require at times surgical treatment, and, when the surgeon is consulted during the first few weeks of the case, chloroform should he given and the bone re- fractured and set in a good position—it being quite justifiable to employ considerable force to attain this end. In young subjects, this re-fracture is rarely attended with difficulty, while in the adult, some is usually found. (Esterlen and Skey were strong advocates for this practice, the former having emploj'ed it up to the twenty