FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. 392 Seat. Symptoms. Treatment. Of acromion process. Of the coracoiil process. Treatment. Of neck of scapula. Symptoms The body of the bone may he fissured in any direction (Fig. 479), though much displacement is rare. In this accident, mobility of the broken bone and crepitus may usually be made out by manipulation; though in fat subjects and when effusion exists the diagnosis may be difficult. Treatment.—A broad pad carefully adjusted and kept in position by means of broad strips of plaster encircling half the thorax, the arm being kept quiet and the elbow raised in a sling, is usually sufficient treatment, although a good shield of gutta percha or felt may be sometimes beneficial. The acromion process may be fractured across its base or in any other part, and, when it is so the outer fragment is generally drawn down- wards with the arm, producing a dropping of the shoulder. The accident can readily be made out, on tracing the spine of the scapula outwards, by the deformity, the break in the normal line of the bone, and the local pain, if not by the separation of the fragments. There is also loss of power in the arm and alteration in its outline. It should be treated by raising the elbow by means of a good sling or bandage, a small axillary pad and a circular bandage binding the arm to the thorax. The union, however, is often ligamentous, it being im- possible to keep the fragments of bone closely in apposition. Fractures of the coracoid process are remarkably rare. I have seen but one decided instance, and that in a girl, set. 15 or 16, the result of a blow. There was local pain and crepitus to denote the injury with dis- placement of the process, its point being drawn downwards by the biceps muscle, and its base projecting. It is more commonly associated with dislocation of the humerus. Treatment.—The muscles attached to the process must be relaxed, the biceps by flexing the forearm, and the coraco-brachialis by drawing the arm forwards and inwards. In this position, the arm should be bound by a bandage, the bone itself, if possible, being restored to its normal position by manipulation. Fractures of the neck of the scapula or of the glenoid fossa must be rare. Sir A. Cooper described such cases, but since Malgaigne showed how the symptoms described might be produced by dislocation of the shoulder with fracture of the glenoid cavity, some doubt has been thrown upon the question of a simple fracture of the neck of the bone ever occurring. In Guy’s Museum, prep. 109785, there is a specimen of fracture of the neck (Fig. 480), and in the Royal College of surgeons there is a second, the third being recorded in Du Yerney, ‘ Traite des Maladies des Os,’ 1751. Sir A. Cooper gives the flattening and sink- ing of the shoulder, the prominence of the acromion, the elongation of the arm, and the presence of crepitus as the chief symptoms, the head of the humerus being felt in the axilla. He also relates how the arm may be replaced in its normal position and again displaced on allowing the arm to drop, this symptom being the