LITHOTOMY. 103 Mortality after lithotomy. Lateral lithotomy. Key’s operation. Statistics. Statistics in children. Description of Key’s operation. the adult admitted, half only have been subjected to lithotomy. In private practice, the proportion of cases of lithotomy to lithotrity is much smaller, patients applying for advice at an earlier period. From this fact, the worst cases of stone are alone submitted to the cutting operation, and, as a consequence, the mortality is high. “ It is probable,” writes Birkett, ‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1867, “ that the rate of mortality after lithotomy must henceforth always appear higher than formerly, in consequence of so many of the patients suffering with stone who might have been cut successfully, being those now selected for the performance of lithotrity. In point of fact, the very cases which swelled the list of successful results no longer appear in the category of those submitted to the cutting operation; but, on the contrary, those patients too ill to recover from lithotrity frequently, as a last resource, submit to lithotomy and perish.” At Guy’s, lithotrity being the rule in adults and lithotomy the exception, the mortality of the latter operation in adults is one in three, whereas in places where, lithotrity is little practised, it is one in five. Lateral lithotomy, or the operation of Raw, Jaques, and Cheselden is, without doubt, the favourite means of extracting a stone from the bladder among modern surgeons, assuming that lithotrity is inap- plicable or inadvisable. As an operation, it has been nobly planned ; and to see it performed with skill and precision is still a sight which affords gratification to the youngest as well as the oldest surgeon. In my student days, to see Aston Key cut for stone was an event which I now fondly think over with pleasure and admiration; and the memory of the skill and precision of his acts in this, as in all other operations, is still before me as a standard of perfection at which all should aim. These remarks are not inapplicable as a preface to the subject of lateral lithotomy; for Key’s use and advocacy of the straight staff in that operation have so influenced all his successors that up to the pre- sent day “ Key’s ” operation is the one usually performed at Guy’s, the exceptions to this rule being so rare as not to be named. The success which has attended this practice has been very good; when, indeed, compared with that furnished from other sources, it seems so remarkable that it is difficult to arrive at any other conclusion than that the mode of operation has something to do with it; for, taking the most reliable statistics—the Norwich 408 cases, in subjects under puberty, and Thompson’s 868, eliminating the Guy’s cases—the mor- tality was 1 in every 14J cases; whilst of Guy’s cases and Key’s operation during seventeen years, 8 deaths occurred in 171 cases, that is, 1 in 57 cases, the success being four times greater. In children under five years of age, these points are still more strongly marked, as out of 400 cases tabulated by Thompson, the mortality was 1 in every 13£; the Norwich not being quite so good; whilst at Guy’s, after Key’s operation, in my old table, it was 1 in 23£ out of 73 cases, and more recently, during seventeen years, ending in 1874, 100 patients have been cut consecutively without a death. This success is certainly more striking than I anticipated when I began the comparison, and must in a measure, if not altogether, be ascribed to the greater safety of Key’s operation. I propose now to describe the operation of lateral lithotomy, and I shall do so after what I believe to be the best method, that of “ Key,”