ON OVARIOTOMY. 2S2 Treatment the pedicle, Variety of methods. f t generally be effected by the finger of the operator introduced at the margin of the wound; and, as the cyst empties, these adhesions are necessarily brought forward, but when they do not exist, the peri- toneum escapes even the touch of the hands of the operator. In com- plicated and exceptional examples of this operation it is clear, that this practice cannot be followed, but in the more ordinary and simple cases it is most applicable. In many examples which have come into my hands, the value of this advice has been well proved, for in them the peritoneum was touched only by the knife and needle. The treatment of the pedicle. If there be one thing more than another in the practice of ovario- tomy which presses for a solution, it is the treatment of the pedicle, for the practice of different surgeons on this point varies extremely, and the multiplicity of methods is most confusing. In France, Mai- sonneuve twisted off the cyst by continued torsion, leaving the pedicle to fall back into the abdomen; whilst Nelaton preferred to fix the pedicle externally, and secure it by means of a common clamp. In Germany, Martin and Langenbeck cut through the peritoneal covering of the pedicle by a circular incision, cut off the tumour, tied each vessel separately, and fixed the pedicle to the walls of the abdomen by means of a double ligature. Dr. C. Clay fastened the pedicle by a double ligature, cut off the tumour, and, having allowed the pedicle to drop backwards into the pelvis, brought the ends of his ligatures out through the lower ends of the incision. Dr. Tyler Smith advised the same treatment of the pedicle as Dr. Clay, but differed from him in the important respect of dropping both pedicle and ligatures, which are cut off close, into the pelvis; the wound should then be closed. Mr. S. Wells pre- fers to fix the pedicle externally by means of a clamp (Fig. 410), and Dr. T. Keith has adopted the same practice, although recent experi- Fig 410. Spencer Wells’ clamp. ence has satisfied him of the value of the actual cautery as employed by Mr. B. Brown and Skolberg, who divided it by the actual cautery, and allowed it to drop back into the pelvis. Atlee of America employs the ecraseur. In my own practice, I have not adopted one unifoim method, having been influenced in my decision by the special pecu- liarities of each case. If we refer to the results of the practice of different operators, who have been in the habit of adopting the various plans to which I have