321a ORTHOPiEDIC SURGERY. Operative interference in talipes. Removal of cuboid. ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1857. Of astragalus. ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 2nd, 1878. Of wedge of bone from tarsus. * Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1877. Choice of operation. If failure follows the first operation, a second may be performed, but the hope of a successful issue under these circumstances is far from good. Barwell has recently revived the old practice of elastic bands to stretch the tendons in lieu of dividing them; and in some cases it is a valuable practice, hut as a substitute for tenotomy it cannot be recommended. There are, however, cases of talipes equino-varus which are neither amenable to subcutaneous tenotomy nor to mechanical appliances, as well as others which have been treated by these measures and have failed, or which are so severe as to make it certain that a long interval of time must of necessity be spent in the attempt to bring about a cure, even if such a result were probable or possible; and under these circumstances surgeons have sought for more expeditious and efficient means of treatment. With such a view. Dr. Little, the pioneer of tenotomy in this country, suggested, so long ago as 1854, “ that in inveterate varus the treatment might well be commenced in robust subjects by ablation of the os cuboides,” and the late Mr. S. Solly, in 1857, carried the suggestion into effect. The case not proving very successful, the practice met with no encouragement, and the operation was not repeated till Mr. Richard Davy, an old pupil of my own, per- formed it at the Westminster Hospital in 1874, on a boy, set. 15, with such a “ striking immediate result that the sole of the foot could with force be placed in a natural position,” and he repeated it in 1875-76. In 1872, Mr. Edward Lund went a step further, and removed from a , boy, set. 7, both astragali in a case of severe double talipes, with some perceptible improvement. This measure he repeated in March, 1878. In October, 1875, however, my colleague, Mr. Davies-Colley, adopted a new method, and on the suggestion of Mr. Howse, removed from a boy, set. 12, a wedge-shaped piece of the tarsus without paying any regard to its articulations, by means of “ an incision, three inches in length, along the outer border of the left foot, from the middle of the os calcis to the middle of the fifth metatarsal bone, and a second across the dorsum of the foot from the centre of this incision • two inches long. Both feet were operated upon at intervals of six weeks, and in less than ten weeks from the second operation the wounds were quite healed, and the boy could walk without assistance. In No- vember, 1876, Mr. Davy performed the same operation. All these proceedings are sound in principle, and in cases of talipes in which minor measures have been tried and have failed, or in which the probabilities of their success are slight, and time and expense are questions of importance, they should be entertained. I believe, how- ever, that Mr. Davies-Colley’s operation is the best for talipes equino- varus, particularly where the varus is worse than the equinus, though Mr. Lund’s operation is probably of value under the reverse conditions. I say this after having had opportunities of seeing several of Mr. Davy’s and one of Mr. Lund’s cases and having carefully watched throughout its treatment Mr. Davies-Colley’s. Entertaining these opinions, I per- formed Mr. Davies-Colley’s operation on June 18th, 1878, and with such a good result that I now give drawings of the boy’s foot before the operation1 (Fig. 427 A and b) and subsequent to it with an outline of the portion of bones removed (Fig. 427c). l The delay arising from the accidental loss of the MS. of this article during the printing of this work affording me the opportunity of inserting the case.