225 STERILITY. caustics, but the larger should be excised. When the growth can be Lee’s isolated by pins passed through its base, the platinum wire ecraseur bribed heated by the galvauic battery is probably the best instrument to use, otherwise the knife is to be employed. When the whole scrotum is removed and the testes are left exposed, hanging from their external rings, the surgeon need be under no alarm, for the parts will granulate up in the course of time, and, what is more, the testicles may become moveable. I have seen this take place more than once. The earlier the disease is removed the better, for by delay the glands of the groin may become involved. The scrotum is occasionally though rarely the seat of tumours, other sebaceous, fatty or fibrous. It is, likewise, the seat of varicose veins; diseases of the small venous radicles appearing as beaded dilatations of a peculiar scrotum, aspect; the disease is, however, of little importance. Tumours or swellings that encroach upon the scrotum from the peri- naeum are probably inflammatory, and are most frequently urinary abscesses associated with and dependent upon some stricture; hut occa- sionally an anal abscess may press forward, and I have seen one occu- pying the whole perinaaum up to the scrotum. These are to be treated by free incisions. STERILITY.—MALE IMPOTENCE AND SPERMATORRHEA. The influence of the sexual functions is so great in the economy of On human life, that any impairment of the organs concerned is a matter *mPotency. of importance, not only in its effects on the bodily health, but even more on the mental state of the person affected. The sexual act is a compound one, physical and mental. The physical organs may be perfect and capable in their way, but if the mental are deficient in energy or weakened by doubt of competency, or under the influence of some emotion such as shame or fear, the act will be spoilt, and failure to complete it must ensue. It is, therefore, clear that impotence, real or imaginary, may be due Causes, to many physical and mental causes. Taylor defines impotency “to be an incapacity for sexual inter- course.” This incapacity may ensue from physical causes, remediable or irremediable. The latter includes loss of penis and testicles, de- Irremediable, formity of penis, including excess of and arrest of development, mal- developmeut, in such cases as ectopia vesicoe, &c. The remediable Remediable causes may be some local affection of the penis or testes. causes. Any condition that prevents the introduction of the organ into the female passage is enough to cause impotence, whether such condition be connected with the penis or testes. The same effect is produced by any disease or congenital malposition or development of the testes, attended with loss of sexual desire, as by old age. A man may, there- fore, be impotent and virile, or impotent and sterile. A man may be capable of sexual intercourse and yet be sterile; ste- rility in the male depending much upon the secretion of the testes, as well as upon the formation of the penis, for semen without sper- matozoa is destitute of procreative power. A man may have a penis the subject of epispadias or hypospadias; he may have sexual desire. Conditions i„ and even power, but if the urethral orifice be so low down as to forbid hypospadias, the semen being conveyed into the vagina, he will be sterile; though all patients with hypospadias are not so. I have known two men who VOL. ii. 15