LITHOTRITY. 101 that the forceps, being below the level of the other parts of the bladder, the calculus may fall into it by its own weight, and it is generally successful. If it should not do so, the forceps, without being moved from its situation, may be gently struck with the band on one side, or on its anterior part, and the slight concussion thus communicated to the bladder will probably be sufficient to dislodge the calculus, and bring it within the grasp of the instrument. If it should be otherwise, the forceps, being closed, may be very gently and cautiously turned to one side or the other, so that the curved ex- tremity of it may make an angle of 25° or even 30° with the vertical line of the body, then opened and pressed in the direction of the rectum in the manner already described.” “When the prostate gland is much enlarged there is sometimes a difficulty in seizing the calculus, arising either from it lying under that part of the gland which projects into the bladder or from the impedi- ment which it offers to the elevation of the handle of the instrument. For such cases the operating table invented by Heurteloup, which enables the patient’s shoulder to be suddenly lowered, is very conve- nient; or the same purpose will be answered sufficiently well if the patient be placed on a light sofa, the end of which may be raised by an assistant. The calculus is then seized, not in that part of the bladder which adjoins the rectum, but in the fundus, this being rendered the lowest point by the elevation of the pelvis.” The second mode of seizing the stone may be described as that of The French Civiale (Fig. 345). It is thus given by Sir II. Thompson:—“Its Method, as principle is the reverse of the preceding. By position of the patient, civile*'1 ^ the centre of the bladder and space beneath it are selected as the area of operation; no depression is made; contact between the walls of the bladder and the instrument is, as much as possible, avoided. The instrument is applied to the stone in the situation which this naturally takes, and the operator carefully avoids moving it, or any movements of concussion whatever, however slight. This improved method is in part due to the mechanical improvements which have been made in the lithotrite of late years. The method was scarcely possible until the present instruments existed.” “We shall now consider it in detail. The blades having entered the cavity of the bladder, the instrument slides easily and smoothly down the trigone, which in the living and healthy organ is an inclined plane, although quite otherwise in the atonied and in the dead bladder. In many cases the stone is grazed by the instrument as it passes, and the slightest lateral movement of the blades, right or left, will determine on which side it lies. If so, the operator is careful not to disturb it, but he in- clines the blades slightly away from the side on which it lies, carrying the instrument gently in towards the posterior wall of the bladder5, while the male blade is slowly withdrawn. It is important always to bear in mind that as long as the blades are near the neck of the bladder the male blade cannot bo withdrawn, since it would impinge on that sensitive part and cause pain or injury. Having done so, he now inclines the well-opened lithotrite towards the stone, slowly closes, and almost certainly seizes it.” “But sup- r ■ pose no stone was felt on entering, he is then directed simply further8 to withdraw the male blade an inch or more in the middle Hue, description, to incline the blades to the right side about 45°, and then to close