TREATMENT OF DISLOCATIONS. 331 former can only occur at ages at which the epiphyses are separate from their shafts, the latter at any age. (2) The former are, as a rule, easy to reduce and difficult to retain; in the latter, as a rule, these con- ditions are reversed. (3) In the former, the points of bone imme- diately surrounding the joint preserve their normal relations; in the latter, these relations are variously altered. (4) The sensation perceived in the two injuries is different, for separation of an epiphysis is usually complicated with fracture, and therefore crepitus can be elicited.” Treatment.—In all cases, the reduction of the dislocation should he Treatment of effected as soon as possible, delay being only justifiable when the dislocation, appliances required for the purpose are not at hand or the diagnosis Immediate liy uncertain. Most dislocations, not excluding those of the hip, may be 01 readily reduced directly after their occurrence by extension or mani- tjon p pulation without the aid of an anaesthetic; but, when any time has been allowed to pass and the immediate constitutional effects of the accident have subsided, it is a fair question whether it is advisable to attempt reduction before anrestheticising the patient; for, under the most favourable circumstances, without this aid, much force will to a certainty be called for, whilst with it the gentlest manipulation is often enough. Indeed, I believe it to be wiser for the surgeon to delay When any attempt to reduce a dislocation till an anaesthetic can he obtained delayed, than to make it without, for the slight harm that ensues from the delay £e °'s“(J)rnl to is more than compensated by the great good secured by its use. In no department of surgery is the benefit of anaesthetics better demon- strated than in this, for where force formerly reigned, gentleness now suffices, and where difficulty and pain were common accompaniments, facility of reduction and painlessness are now the rule. Their use has Value'of superseded the old treatment by venesection, tartar emetic, the string wueathetics. of students, and the pulleys. Under then- influence, all muscular spasm ceases to be a force which has to be overcome, and the surgeon has simply to replace the bone through the rent in its capsule, by such gentle manipulative acts as the special requirements of each case appear to indicate. The facility, however, with which a dislocation is reduced by manipulation, turns much upon a surgeon’s knowledge of the way the dislocation was produced, for, in a general sense, the best way to reduce a dislocation is to make the head of the bone retrace the course it followed after it had first burst through its capsule, as the untorn parts in the capsule is doubtless the main obstacle to reduc- tion, muscular spasm being eliminated by the use of an anaesthetic. In neglected cases of dislocation where false joints exist and force In neglected is called for to break them down, pulleys may occasionally be wanted, cases, but they must always be employed with the greatest caution, and under a healthy fear, for not only may the axillary artery be torn aud liga- ments lacerated, but worse injuries may ensue; thus, in Paris, in 1864 the forearm of a woman, set. 64, was torn off at the elbow-joint in the attempt to reduce a dislocation in the humerus, and in London, more recently, the same dreadful accident is reported to have ’taken place. After the reduction of a dislocation, the limb should be kept at rest, After- and fixed by bandages sometimes on a splint, and Sedillot’s rule of treatmeut- “ simply placing the joint in a position the opposite of that in which it was when the dislocation occurred” is sound. When any signs of