356 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. Nelaton’s test lor dislocation. Treatment of dislocations of hip. Flexion under chloroform. In ilio-sciatic dislocations. of diagnosis, the surgeon using the gentlest manipulation. The sudden loss of mobility, the rigidity of the limb, the absence of crepitus and other symptoms of fracture, with the positive signs of the injuries themselves, are sufficient to indicate the nature of the case. Nelaton’s test for dislocation of the hip backwards is, however, excel- lent, and consists of a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium. In a normal joint, the trochanter, in every position of the limb, merely touches the lower border of this line; but in all dislocations where the bone goes backward, it is found sometimes an inch above it. Treatment.—Sir A. Cooper, with the surgeons of his day, con- sidered the muscles about a joint as the chief agents in drawing a displaced bone into its abnormal position, and as forming the main obstacle to its reduction; and, as a consequence, they relied upon phy- sical force in the form of pulleys and other complicated appliances, as the chief means by which this obstacle could be neutralised. The modern surgeon with anaesthetics in his hands knows, that the mus- cular system has usually little or nothing to do with the difficulties that are met with in the reduction of a dislocation, and that these are found in the ligaments and capsule, a large laceration in the latter allowing easy reduction, when with a small difficulties must be experienced. With chloroform, therefore, all pulleys and mechanical appliances can be done away with—certainly in recent cases, and probably in old cases. In my own opinion they are never required, for adhesions are more readily broken down by forced flexion and rotation than by simple extension, and if these fail, no extending force will succeed. In dislo- cations of the hip, the reduction by flexion becomes, therefore, a reality, and is one of the greatest improvements in modern surgery. Fig. 462. Fig. 463. Reduction by manipulation. In dislocation into tbe foramen ovale. In ilio-sciatic dislocation. From Bigelow. In the dislocations backwards, ilio-sciatic, the reduction by flexion is the correct method, adduction, circumflexion, abduction, and exten-