164 AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. Warty growths. Treatment. Cancer of penis. Treatment. Removal by galvanic cautery. the constriction, the thumb of the left hand forcibly depressing the glans penis. (Fig. 371.) The prepuce at times yields audibly and the wound gapes ; the whole constricting medium should also be divided. Water dressing, or, some lead lotion should be applied to the parts subsequently to assist recovery. After the paraphimosis has been reduced and the cedema subsided, it is wise in the ease of children to circumcise, and in the adult the same practice is frequently desirable. In all cases of oedema of the penis in children, the surgeon must remember, that it may be due to mechanical strangulation by string. Warty growths are very common on the penis, and they may be found fringing the orifice of the prepuce, and the urethra, or growing from any part of the mucous membrane between these two points; indeed, they may grow from within the urethra as well as from the outside shin of the prepuce. They have in the bulk of cases, a venereal origin, that is, they have been caught by contagion, for warts are contagious; but they, at times, occur without any such cause in men who have long prepuces, and who are not sufficiently careful in local cleanliness. When they are numerous, their excision is the only suc- cessful treatment, nitrate of silver being applied to their bases, but in less severe examples, the dry oxide of zinc, freshly powdered savine and calomel, are good local applications, the warts rapidly withering under their influence. Cancer of the Penis. In the middle-aged and old, it is sometimes difficult if not impos- sible, to distinguish simple warty from cancerous growths; although the greater obstinacy of the cancerous and their disposition to bleed are probably the best points of distinction. When there is ulceration the disease is probably cancer. If the cancer be left to take its course, the glans penis and prepuce become infil- trated and the warts discharges fetid ichorous secretion, break down and ulcerate; the inguinal glands become involved, and death takes place from exhaustion. At times the whole organ is destroyed and the scrotum involved. Cancer of the penis is generally of the epithelial variety, true carci- noma being comparatively rare. Treatment.—In all clear cases of this disease, unless the inguinal or lumbar glands are extensively involved, amputation is the only sound practice to follow, and, in the doubtful, it is the wisest. When the prepuce alone is involved, the excision of the growth may be sufficient, but nothing less than amputation is of any use when the glans is affected. Under all circumstances, the surgeon should cut quite free of the disease, for the tissues about it are probably more or less infiltrated with cancerous products. I have a patient alive and well now (1878), whose penis I cut off for cancer eleven years ago, and a second, from whom I excised a cancerous mass from the prepuce, twelve years ago. Amputation of the Penis. Since the galvanic cautery has been in use, I have employed nothing else for amputation of the penis. The platinum wire should be passed round the penis and made tight with the ecraseur screw. Connection with the battery must then be made, and the wire screwed slowly