137 wheelhouse’s operation. well as contractile stricture, in cases which Syme described as strictures that “ continue to present symptoms after being dilated,” and that “are indomitable by the ordinary means of treatment.” It is, moreover, usually successful. The operation is by no means one of difficulty. A grooved staff as large as can he passed through the stricture is first introduced, the patient having been placed upon his back as if about to be cu( for stone. The surgeon should then with perfect precision introduce his knife into the centre of the perinseum, and at one stroke, cut down upon the groove situated at the lower border of the staff; and using this as his guide, the perineal portion of the urethra in which the stricture is situated can he readily and freely divided. There are but two important points to be observed in this the second step of the operation; the first is to be certain that the knife touches the groove of the staff, and secondly that the whole of the diseased or strietured portion of the urethra is freely divided. Having succeeded in this, the essential part of the operation, and after a grooved probe or director has been introduced into the bladder through the perineal wound, the sound may he removed, when either a full-sized elastic cathe- ter can he readily introduced through the penis into the bladder and fixed in; or Syme’s catheter (Fig. 362) may he introduced through the perineal wound for twenty-four hours. Fio. 362. The patient should then he sent to bed, and a mild opiate given such as ten grains of Dover’s powder, if much general or local vesical irritability exists. The catheter may be left in for several days if it fail to cause pain, but if the bladder resents its presence it may be removed; indeed, recent experience has led me to think that the presence of a catheter is scarcely required, although more experience is called for before the omission of its use can be confidently recom- mended. After the wound has closed, the occasional introduction of a catheter is essential, and I cordially agree with Professor Syme in thinking “ prudence requires that every patient who has had a stricture divided should learn to introduce bougies, since by doing so, at intervals of a week or a fortnight, he will be perfectly secure from future ti ouble. I he division of a stricture no more effects a permanent cure than its dilatation or rupture, and occasional dilatation is essen- tial to maintain its patency. Wheelhouse’s Operation. Mr. C. G. Wheelhouse, of Leeds, however, has introduced an opera- tion for impermeable stricture which I believe deserves attention. Points to be attended to. After- treatment. Occasional use of eatiieters necessary.