103 LITHOTRITY. small stone or for fragments, we shall employ a lithotrite with short When ^ blades, which can, therefore, be reversed with much greater ease than |nfa.lV's10?ics. one with long blades. “ In order to do this properly in the normal bladder, the handle of the lithotrite is depressed another iuch or so between the patient’s thighs, so that the line of the instrument, instead of being directed obliquely a little upwards, is level with, or even points a little below, the horizon; the blades, supposed to have been already brought to the horizontal, as before described, are cautiously turned about 45°, say, to the right (right reversed incline), so as to point obliquely to the floor, which should be barely felt or very lightly touched by them. No pressure should be made on this part of the bladder by any part of the instrument, and it is easily avoided by depressing sufficiently the handle of the lithotrite; then close the blades; next turn them back, that is upwards, over to the left (left reverse incline), and close. Lastly, they may be brought round to the reversed vertical position, and the floor lightly swept; this requires the maximum depression of the handle, and is only necessary to pick up small fragments with a short-bladed instrument. But when the prostate is considerably en- when larged, and a stone or fragments have to be sought behind it, the enlarged lithotrite is reversed without depressing the handle. prostate. “ All these movements are to be executed at or beyond the centre of Civiale’s the vesical cavity, the proper area for operating, without hurry, rapid instructions movement, or any other which partakes of the nature of a jerk or con- manipulating cussion, and, if in a fairly healthy bladder, without causing more than the lithotrite a very slight degree of pain to the patient. The operator’s eye is also 'vill‘ blades, to be so familiar with the scale marked on the sliding rod, that he knows at a glance the exact interval which it indicates as existing between the blades in the bladder. It is essential to good practice, while manipu- lating the lithotrite, to maintain the axis of the instrument as far as possible always in the same direction. The blades only are to be moved; the shaft should occupy the same inclination, unless when this is intentionally altered. In screwing home the small blade the ope- rator is very apt to move tin? lithotrite also at each turn of the screw, unless he is conscious of the care necessary to avoid the evil. All lateral movements, all vibration and concussion, necessarily tell on the neck of the bladder and prostatic urethra, where the instrument is most closely embraced and its mobility is most limited. To that part of the lithotrite which occupies the anterior portion of the urethra much free- dom of lateral movement is permitted, and in the bladder the instru- ment is free, although in a less degree; but the axis or fixed point, as regards lateral movement, is at the part indicated, which is also the most sensitive spot of the entire passage. Hence the aim of the ope- Lithotrite rator should be to produce in this situation no motion of the lithotrite sl,ould only except that on its own axis. Few of the details of the operation “‘^ea“"slls require more practice to master than this. “ There is one important rule with reference to the situation of the Rule in calculus in the bladder. The larger it is the more certain it is to be relerence to found lying near the neck of the bladder in the ordinary recumbent of position, while a small one is usually detected at the back of the trigone. This position of the large stone requires a different method, and it wili When stone be found almost invariably successful. The moment the lithotrite larSe- enters the bladder it is not to be pushed onwards to the bottom of the