PEACTUB.ES OP THE RADIUS. 400 In a case of injury to the right upper extremity in a man set. 30, complicated with brain mischief which came under my care in 1877, there was an impacted Colles’s fracture of the right radius and a vertical fracture of the head of the same hone into the joint. He had evidently fallen from a height upon his right hand and head. Causes. Fractures of the lower extremities are generally the result of a fall upon the hand, and are very common. Fractures of the shaft or neck may be produced in the same way, but are more commonly caused by direct violence. Colles’s Fractures of the lower end have always been of special interest. iracture. Colles, of Dublin, first described them in 1814 (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal), and such injuries are now generally known as Colles’s fracture. Dr. R. W. Smith has also done much to draw attention to their nature in his work on fracture, where he explains the charac- teristic deformity by muscular action. Figs. 488-9 show the appear- Fiq. 488. Fig. 489. Colles’s fracture of lower end of radius Fracture of radius and displacement backwards, and displacement backwards. Dorsal Side view. From Dr. R. W. Smith, view. From Dr. R. W. Smith. Fig. 490. Fracture of radius and displacement forwards. From W. Smith. ance of the wrist; with displacement of the broken end and hand backwards; Fig. 490 shows displacement forwards. Callender on Callender, nowever, more recently, in an able paper (‘ St. Barth, deformity in j>ep}> 1865), has shown that Yoillemier, Malgaigne, and Nelaton’s fracture. views are the more correct, and that impaction rather than muscular action is the true explanation of the deformity. « The radius is first broken, then, by the momentary continuance of the force in the direction of the falling body, forwards and outwards, the shaft is driven into the carpal end, burying itself chiefly from the dorsal surface towards the palm, and towards the outer or the inner side. In a great number of cases this impaction so fixes the fragments that they cannot be unlocked, and the deformity is permanent.”— Callender. The thirty-six specimens of fracture of the lower end of the radius which the museums connected with the Loudon schools of medicine contain, clearly manifest that the cause of each deformity is the impaction .of the proximal in the distal portion of the broken bone.