HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. 76 the enlarged vesical or third lobe of the prostate than a shorter one. To assist in the introduction of any instrument into the bladder, the passage of the index finger of the surgeon’s left hand fully into the rectum is an excellent aid, and, under all circumstances, the pelvis of the patient should be well raised on a pillow. When an elastic instrument is used and some difficulty experienced in riding over the obstruction, success may often be achieved, as soon as the end of the instrument has reached the vesical end of the urethra, by the withdrawal of the stylet with one hand and the pres- Nn force to sure °f the catheter into the bladder with the other. Force should be used. never be employed, gentle manipulation and care almost always sufficing to secure success. When the disease is chronic and the necessity of catheterism is pro- bably permanent, the patient should be taught to pass a gum elastic catheter for himself; a few lessons and a little confidence being all that is required for the purpose. When the bladder from over distension has lost all power, and it is necessary that it should have complete rest to allow it time to recover its tone, a catheter may be fastened in, and, if the instrument sets up much bladder irritation, a good compromise may be found in the practice of leaving it in at night and removing it during the day. When When the introduction of the instrument is attended with great eatheter may difficulty, it may be expedient to leave an instrument in for some days, e e ln‘ but, under these circumstances, the bladder should be washed out through the catheter daily. The vulcanised india-rubber catheter is a good form to employ for this purpose, although at times it causes more urethral irritation than the gum elastic. Mr. Holt’s winged catheter or any other self-re- taining one may be employed when difficulties are experienced with keeping in the simpler form. May require When retention is present and catheterism impossible, the surgeon rectum*6 ^ may lje called upon to puncture the bladder per rectum in order to give relief. When severe cystitis exists and the agony of catheterism be- comes unendurable, a clean incision into the bladder as in lithotomy, to allow the urine to flow away, is a desirable measure. General With the local treatment of this affection, the general must not be treatment. neglected, although in importance it is quite secondary. When cystitis exists, it must be treated upon the principles previously laid down. The general condition of the patient must be maintained by means of good diet and sufficient stimulants. The skin should be kept warm and all sudden chills avoided; the bowels kept open, but not loose; pain should be relieved by sedatives and sleep secured by hypnotics; tonics are often called for, the preparations of iron being as a rule the best. Exercise should be taken when there is no inflammation of the blad- der or other reason to forbid it, walking and driving being the best forms, and, under these circumstances, the local distress from the affection may be rendered very light, and life prolonged for many years with comfort. Patients with this affection should once a day, as a matter of habit, pass urine on their hands and knees; the bladder in this way having more power to evacuate its contents, and the mucus and other more solid contents, which otherwise would lie behind the prostate, are got rid of with greater certainty.