S82 ON FRACTURES. Glue bandages. Plaster of Paris. The Bavarian baudage. Its mode of application. Bavarian splint. Mr. Dc Morgan prefers the glue bandage; the best French glue, after having been soaked in cold water and melted in a glue pot, being applied like the starch ; the addition of about one fifth of the bulk of the solution of methylated spirit hastens the drying. When plaster of Paris is employed, the bandage should be of some loose texture and that made of book muslin or crinoline is probably the best. It should be prepared beforehand by rubbing well fresh dry powder into its texture, and made ready for use by being tho- roughly wetted in a bowl of water for two or three minutes; some additional plaster being rubbed with water into the bandage as it is unrolled to strengthen the whole. When the surface is extensive the setting of the plaster may be delayed by the addition of a little size or stale beer to the water with which it is mixed, while salt and the use of warm water increase the rapidity with which the plaster sets. The day following the application of this bandage, a coating of flour, paste, gum, or even a coating of varnish, may be applied to prevent chipping. In the appendix to the ‘ Army Medical Report ’ for 1869, Mr. Moffitt describes the Bavarian mode of putting up a fracture in an immove- able apparatus, a mode which deserves to be more widely known than it is. I have tested it well, employing gum and chalk instead of plaster of Paris, and can strongly recommend it, being simple, can be applied very quickly, and is most effective. It is now in general use at Guy’s, and is applied as follows :—The materials required to make it are, a piece of stout, “ coarse house-flannel,” which has been shrunk, some precipitated chalk, mucilage of gum acacia, a good-sized cradle, and a stout needle and thread. When it is applied to the leg for fracture, two equal-sized pieces of the flannel are first cut, long enough to reach from the lower border of the patella to three inches below the heel, and, in breadth about six inches more than the circumference of the calf, so as to allow the edges to overlap for about three inches when the flannel is folded round the leg. One of these pieces should now be applied to the leg, its centre corresponding with the centre of the calf; and its two flaps brought tightly together over the skin (Fig. 476), where they should be firmly stitched together, the Fig. 476. Bavarian or immovable splint. A. First layer of flannel applied to limb. B. Second layer about to be applied. stitches being inserted close to the bone. The stitching must be begun at the upper part, carried down to the hollow of the instep.