DIAGNOSIS OF ADENOCELE OF THE BREAST. 247 nothing remarkable will be distinguishable. If a tumour or new growth exists, however, it is immediately perceptible. But if a doubt arise in the matter, the patient should recline when under examination; and then, if there be a tumour, it is immediately manifest to the touch, and often to the eye.—Birkett. Having then detected the pre- sence of a tumour, that is, an independent growth developed in the neighbourhood of the breast-gland and probably in connection with it, the question arises as to its nature. Is it a simple or a malig- nant tumour ? If the tumour be moveable and hard, if quite free, piaenosis of or has but a very uncertain connection with the gland structure, adenocele. there is a strong probability that the tumour is of a simple nature; and, if it has existed for several months, this probability becomes stronger, for the cancerous tumour has a tendency even when prima- rily developed as a tuber or as an independent structure, to associate itself and becomes connected with the neighbouring tissues; and if this has not taken place, the absence of these conditions enhances the probability of the simple nature of the growth under examination. If the patient is also young and healthy, and no other abnormal con- ditions, either of the breast or neighbouring structures are to be detected, the probability becomes a certainty, and the presence of an “adenocele” may be determined on—this tumour being synonymous with the chronic mammary tumour of Sir. A. Cooper, the mammary glandular tumour of Paget, the sero-cystic sarcoma of Brodie, or the adenoma of Birlcett. These adenoceles are found as a rule in the young and unmar- Symptoms of ried, and in the apparently healthy and robust, although occasionally adenocele. they occur in the aged. They appear during the period when the pro- creative organs, and among them the mammary glands are in a state of “ developmental perfectionand when they occur in married women, are most frequently developed during pregnancy or suckling. They are never associated with any other symptoms than such as can be produced mechanically by their presence, and never involve the integument except by distension; nor is the skin ever infiltrated by any new material. They are never accompanied by any secondary enlargement of the absorbent glands nor associated with any secondary deposits; they cause no cachexia nor undermine the health; but affect the patient solely through local influences, and demand treat- ment chiefly from local considerations. They may be found in either breast, occasionally in both, and are constantly multiple, two or more I tumours being often found in the same gland. From my notes of eiglity-one cases consecutively observed - 122 appeared under the age of 20. 128 between 21 and 30 years of age. 18 ,, 31 ,, 40 ,, 11 „ 41 „ 50 2 above the age of 50. 37 were in single tvornen. 31 in the married and prolific. 12 in the married and sterile. Statistics. As long as these tumours remain small and quiescent, they are of May vein am [little importance; and, being moveable, are readily diagnosed; but smulL | when years have been allowed to elapse, and their growth has increased, land, from their greater size they have become burdensome and press on neighbouring structures, they are neither of small importance nor