345 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. of the humerus and the olecranon being far apart; and the great increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the joint seen at a glance. In thin subjects, the olecranon and the head of t' radius can readily be felt in their abnormal position, and the head ot the latter bone made through the hand to rotate in its new situation. In the dislocation of the bones outwards, the marked prominence of Dislocation the inner condyle of the humerus as seen from behind is a typical feature outwards. (Pig. 444), and, with luxation of the same bones inwards, the external condyle is prominent. In the rare form of dislocation fonvards (Pig. 445), the loss of the olecranon from its right position, the unusual prominence of the con- dyles of the humerus, and the marked elongation of the forearm, are the chief features. In dislocation of the ulna back- wards, the pronation and twisting inwards of the hand, the great shortening of the ulnar side of the forearm, and projection backwards k of the olecranon, mark the nature 1 of the accident. When tho head of the radius is displaced alone forwards (Pig. 446) or backwards, its absence from its natural position, as well as its presence in an unnatural one, can usually be made out. In the forward disloca- tion the flexion of the joint is limited. In the backward (Pig. 447), the movements may be complete; more commonly, however, they are limited. Tbeatment.—When the nature of the dislocation has been once Treatment of recognised, there is little difficulty in its treatment, for with the patient dislocation of Fig. 445. Dislocation forwards. Ulna thrown backwards. Dislocation of head of radius. Dislocation of radius and ulna forwards- Canton’s case. ‘ Dub. Quart.,’ Aug., 1860- Fig. 446. Dislocation of the radius forwards. Drawing 2780, Guy’s Hospital. From dissection. Mr. Hilton’s case. ansestlieticised and the muscles consequently paralysed, the reduction of any dislocation of the elbow by manipulation, or rather by mould- ing the joint into its right form is readily effected. This may usually be done by the surgeon’s hands, pressure being applied according to the