DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 344 Varieties. Conditions. Frequency of the several kinds. Symptoms and diagnosis of dislocation of elbow. Fig. 443. Both bones may be displaced backwards, outwards, inwards, or for- wards, backwards and outwards, or backwards and inwards. The ulna may be displaced backwards alone, the radius maintaining its natural posi- tion ; and tbe head of the radius may be thrown forwards or backwards. These dislocations may be more or less complete, simple or com- pound ; uncomplicated, or complicated with fracture of one or more of the bones entering into the formation of the joint, or with displace- ment of an epiphysis. In point of frequency, dislocation of both hones backwards is the most common, the other dislocations of both bones occurring in the order above given; dislocation forwards being so rare that without a fracture, its existence was doubted by Sir A. Cooper, but Velpeau and Canton have each recorded undoubted examples. The force required to produce any one of these injuries is severe. It is generally exerted directly upon the elbow, or indirectly upon the hand, either by a fall or twist. To admit of any dislocation, there must of necessity be much laceration of the ligaments. Symptoms and diagnosis. These accidents are not difficult to diagnose when they are seen at an early period of their existence, though after the lapse of some hours, great difficulty may be ex- perienced owing to the swelling masking the points of bone, and rendering it difficult to make out their relative positions. The injured joint should always be carefully examined, each point of bone felt for, and its relative position with other points compared with those of the sound limb, although, too, in all forms of dislocation or fracture about joints, the surgeon should compare the sound with the in- jured side, in none can he derive greater assistance, or feel more forcibly the value of the rule than in dislocations of the elbow. The student should accustom himself to the manipulation of healthy joints, and learn where to place his finger upon their different prominences and de- pressions ; and having learned the normal conditions, he will find usually but little difficulty in discovering when a displace- meut has occurred. When both bones are dislocated back- tvards (Fig. 443), the forearm is par- tially flexed and the hand slightly pronated; the displaced bones project backwards and make a prominent swell- ing with the tendon of the triceps, while the condyles of the humerus can readily be felt in front pushing the artery and soft parts forward; the inner condyle Dislocation of radius and ulna backwards. From Sir A. Cooper. Fig. 444. Dislocation of the right radius and ulna outwards. Posterior view.