COMPLICATED FRACTURES. 437 threatens, it would be as unscientific as it is useless to adopt this practice ; amputation, under such circumstances, being alone ap- plicable. By way of summary it would appear that in compound fracture Summary, complicated with arterial hsemorrhage, the vessel ought to be secured if possible, in the wound, if not above it; and that primary or secondary amputation should only be resorted to when the local injury forbids any hope of a natural recovery being entertained. In simple fracture the expectant treatment should, as a rule, be adopted. If from the progressive character of the hsemorrhage, inter- ference is absolutely demanded, the artery should be secured above the fracture, and amputation had recourse to when gangrene of the limb follows. Pressure upon the afferent artery is a practice that also demands attention. In exceptional cases, it may be expedient to cut down upon the wounded vessel at the seat of injury. Fractures implicating Joints. These are generally grave injuries—though in simple fractures the Fractures worst effect that is usually to be looked for is some stiffness or auchy- implicating losis of the articulation. Yet this result is not constant, and a mova- joints- ble joint is not rarely secured. As a matter of precaution, however, the surgeon should warn the patient of the risk, and be careful always to adjust the fracture and limb in the most useful position for a stiff joint. Such cases require very careful treatment, absolute immobility of the injured bone and articulation being essential points to he observed; the joint, if inflamed, must be treated upon ordinary principles. Passive movement of the joint should be commenced after the lapse of four or five weeks. Compound fractures into joints are among the most serious cases Compound the surgeon has to treat, and in the lower extremity generally re- fracture into quire amputation. In the knee-joint, this practice is the best when the wound is great and fracture severe, though exceptional cases are on Into knee, record in which excision has been employed. In less severe examples an attempt to save the member may be made, secondary amputation being performed when ill-success follows. The same rules are applicable in these cases as in wounds of joints, a simple fissure of bone adding but little to the danger; while severe comminution reduces the prospects of success to a minimum. In compound fracture into the ankle-joint without displacement, no Ankle, operation is usually called for, since good results are obtainable by conservative treatment. In compound fracture of the shoulder- and elbow-joints, amputation Shoulder and is rarely required unless the parts are irreparably crushed, or the patient elbow, is so old as to forbid any hopes of recovery being entertained. Yet in many cases excision should be undertaken, as it is wiser to excise the articulation at once with the view of securing movement than to look for a recovery by natural processes where anchylosis must be expected, unless, indeed, the wound is small, the injury to the bones slight, and the patient young. In compound fracture of the wrist, no operation is required as a general rule.