TAPPING THE BLADDER. 159 upwards to feel for the prostate (Fig. 368), and, if possible, for the bulging base of the tense bladder beyond. Some little pressure above the pubes may help in this attempt. The pulpy point of the index- finger is then to be held in the median line just below the spot at which the puncture is to he made. The surgeon then with his right hand is to take from his assistant the canula, well oiled and fitted with the blunt pilot trocar, and to introduce it into the rectum upon his left index-finger, passing it well up to the point selected for puncture. He should then steady the canula and hold it firmly in position with the thumb and three outer fingers of his left hand, aud withdraw the blunt trocar. The sharp trocar can then be introduced through the canula, and, having reached its end, the handle with the canula is to be depressed and driven home, in a direction upwards and forwards, in a line towards the umbilicus (dotted line, Fig. 368). The bladder in this way will be entered, the free end of the instrument moving freely, and all resistance ceasing. The trocar should then be withdrawn, and the canula pressed well home. Before the bladder is completely emptied, it is well to insert the two inner canulse, and fasten the whole in by means of tapes, two passed in front and two behind the thighs, to a girth round the waist. The canula may then be plugged with a peg to retain the urine, or with a hollow plug inserted into a piece of india-rubber tubing, through which the water may drain away. As soon as the urethral passage has become pervious to the catheter, but not before, the canula should be withdrawn; this condition taking place usually within a week from the introduction of the catheter. The stricture may then he treated on rational principles by dilatation. It is very remarkable how, at times, a stricture which has thus been left alone and unirritated by catheterism or ineffectual natural efforts at micturition, gives way under such treatment, and a thoroughly im- pervious indurated urethra becomes pervious and amenable to simple measures. The wound into the bladder closes rapidly after the removal of the canula, even after many weeks; and, in a case of my own no urinary fistula followed the presence of the canula for seven weeks. In retention of urine from enlarged prostate such an operation as this is rarely called for; yet at times it is necessary. I have had Sometimes recourse to it on three occasions where the neck of the bladder and required for prostate gland had been seriously injured from rough catheterism, and cnla^‘:'1 with such good success that I shall never hesitate to repeat it when any difficulty exists in entering the bladder, or, in subsequently keeping an instrument in the bladder. In two of the cases mentioned, the irritability of the bladder was so great as to resent the presence of an instrument, and the pain and difficulty in its passage were so severe as to be nearly unendurable. In both these cases the operation was fol- lowed by speedy and permanent relief. The bladder recovered its healthy condition after the parts had had rest for a few days, the urethra allowing of catheterism without distress, and convalescence was soon established. The surgeon, then, may perform this operation without fear in all cases of retention where any difficulty in catheterism exists. I know of no operation attended with equal good, that is so safe, satisfactory, or free from danger. In all cases of supposed retention of urine, the surgeon should guard