EXCISION OF ELBOW-JOINT. 488 When excision advisable. Operation of excision of elbow-joint. humero-ulnar joint may take place at a good angle, and pronation and supination of the hand retained; while in another class, anchylosis of both bones may take place with a very useful arm; and this result is secured by no greater expenditure of time than is required for repair after excision, and without the risks of an operation. In synovial disease ending in disorganization, this result is far from being uncommon; indeed, in such cases excision is rarely called for. In hone disease ending in necrosis, however, the same rules do not apply, for under such circumstances, no operation is of greater value than excision. (Fig. 562.) In all cases of disease of the elbow-joint in which natural processes are incompetent to effect a cure, excision should be performed; ampu- tation being had recourse to only when excision is inapplicable or has failed. In cases of compound dislocation, or fracture into the joint, excision is an excellent operation, and to gunshot wounds the same observations apply. Amputa- tion of the arm for injured elbow ought to be performed in quite exceptional cases. Several inches of bone may be taken away in the operation. Mr. Tudor, of Dorchester, removed five inches, the patient subse- quently having an arm capable of extensive motion in every direction, and with which he could lift a heavy chair (‘ Med.- Chir. Trans.,’ 1858). Operation.—The best incision is the vertical one over the ole- cranon process as practised by Langenbeckancl the French sur- geons, extending from three inches above to two below th'e joint, the incision dividing all the tissues down to the bones. The soft parts should then be carefully separated from the bones and drawn aside, the ulnar nerve being raised from the inner condyle, with the inner half of the triceps tendon and fascia. No transverse incision across the triceps tendon should be made, it being a very important thing, as recommended by Dr. R. Hodges, of America (‘ Hammond’s Essays,’ 1864), and recently well de- monstrated by Maunder (‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ 1871), to retain the triceps tendon aud fascia as it passes over the olecranon, with the fascia of the forearm and anconeus muscle; a thick body of muscle and fascia being in this way retained, extending from the arm above to the forearm below, which adds materially to the extending power and subsequentvalue of the limb (Fig. 563). The articular ends of the bones should then be turned out and removed. The surgeon need not be too sparing in his Fio. 562. Sequestrum Parts removed by resection alter disorganiza- tion of the elbow-jomt as a result ol necro- sis of humerus.