ON FRACTURES. 383 and then fastened off. Having arrived at this point, the next thing is to see that the foot is at a right angle with the leg; if left alone it will probably be at a very obtuse angle, and considerable force is sometimes necessary to bring the toes up, which must be done now or not at all. The stitching must next be begun on the sole of the foot, commencing at the toes and proceeding towards the heel, the flannel being tightly dragged downwards. The stitching along the sole of the foot being completed, the remaining piece along the dorsum of the foot may next be stitched, and after this there can be no fear of the foot changing its position. The limb will now be tightly encased in a layer of flannel, the edges of which are lying in adaptation in front of the leg. The flannel along the sole of the foot to within an inch of the stitches should next be cut off and the edges turned back. At present the superfluous flannel along the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot should not be inter- fered with, but the limb slung up to the cradle by three or four pieces of bandage, pinned or stitched to the adapted edges of flannel in front of the leg (Pig. 476). This will have the effect of stretching the flannel and making it more closely adapt itself to the shape of the calf, ankle-joint, &c., and allow the gum and chalk to be easily applied. The next thing is, to make a thick paste of the gum and chalk the con- sistence of honey by stirring them together in a basin, which should be spread thickly over the surface of the flannel with a brush, or rubbed in with the palm of the hand, care being taken that it enter all the little inequalities of the flannel. Having done this, apply the outer layer of flannel, placing it just as the first was placed, with its centre corresponding with the median line of the calf, folding its edges closely around the leg, and bringing them up together in front over the edges of the previous layer. Keep them also in position in front by about half-a-dozen stitches put through at intervals down the leg close to the shin. Along the sole of the foot this layer of flannel may at once be neatly finished off by turning in the edges and joining by stitches. The whole should now be left suspended to the cradle for about twenty-four hours to dry, at the end of which time it may be taken down, and the splint removed from the leg by cutting up the stitches along the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot with a pair of scissors, aided by forcibly separating the adjacent edges of flannel. It now only remains to trim up the splint by cutting off the super- Binding fluous edges, binding them with strips of leather made adhesive by 5Pluit- being spread with resin plaster, and inserting eyelet-holes at equal distances all down, so as to lace the splint up the front (Fig. 476a). If the splint is required fora knee-joint, some modifications of the above For plan is necessary. It will not do to suspend the limb to a cradle by the knee-joint, edges of the flannel as in the previous case, but the patient should be seated in a chair before a fire, with the heel resting on another chair. Then the first layer of flannel should be tightly applied, its edges being brought up together in front, and stitches inserted close to the leg. The gum-and- chalk paste may now be thickly spread over the surface of this flannel and covered in by a second layer of flannel exactly as in the previous case. This second layer may be fastened in front by a few stitches, and the whole allowed to dry. When quite dry the adjacent edges of flannel may be forcibly separated and the stitches divided with scissors. Lastly, the superfluous edges may be cut off, two semilunar pieces cut out for the patella, the margins bound with leather and eyelet-holes inserted for