179 ON LOCAL VENEREAL TREATMENT. care to do this effectually; since through a want of due attention to this point, the glans penis may be destroyed or the prepuce perforated. When the sore has been exposed, it ought to be treated on ordinary prin- ciples. When a simple purulent discharge comes from the orifice of the prepuce, the constant use of water and simple lead or other injec- tion will probably suffice. Phimosis without inflammatory oedema rarely calls for treatment. Phagedsena. Venereal like other sores may slough, the suppurating chancre be- phagedena, ing more prone to take on this action than the non-suppurating and indurated. When a sore sloughs from the first, it will probably prove to be non-infecting, and even if syphilitic in its origin, it may lose its syphilitic nature, the sore when the sloughing action has ceased, be- coming a simple one. This action is at times so intense that the penis varies in rapidly swells, inflames, and becomes gangrenous after infection, the intensity, whole organ at times sloughing off; while at others, the action will be more partial. In exceptional instances, the mortification is of the dry kind. In May be of the Peninsular War, when the British troops were in Portugal, dry kind, this sloughing of the penis from inflammation was so severe that Inspector Fergusson (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. iv) wrote :—“ It is pro- bable more men have sustained the most melancholy of all mutilations ! during the four years at war in Portugal through this disease, which , was called the ‘ black lion,’ than the registers of all the hospitals in England could produce in the last century.” He attributed the severity of this affection to the free sexual intercourse of persons of Causes, different nations. How far this phagedama depends upon some peculiar power of the infecting poison, or upon the constitution of the individual patient is difficult to determine, although the latter probably has the greater influence, since when any such depressing agency as that caused by drink, excess of venery, or illness is present, phagedama is more likely to occur than under other circumstances. Treatment.—In the treatment of all cases of phagedama, opium, Treatment of tonics, and good living are the three essentials; while mercury and the pkagedama. iodide of potassium are inadmissible. Locally, the part must be kept cleau by frequent ablution, and to this end, the prepuce often requires to be slit up. Lotions of nitric acid, one drachm to five ounces of water; of carbolic acid, one part to thirty; of sulphate of copper, five or ten grains to the ounce; of potassio-tartrate of iron, from ten to twenty grains to the ounce are also useful, and opium in solution is often a good addition. When the disease spreads, local mercurial fumigation is said to be of value; but change of air is most beneficial. Adenopathy or bubo is a common complication of the simple as well Bubo, as of the infecting chancre; that is, it is found in the local venereal sore as well as in the inoculation of true syphilis, but in the former the gland as a rule suppurates, while in the latter it rarely does so, at any rate as a consequence of the local sore. “ Lymphatic absorption,” writes Lee, “ from a suppurating syphi- Lee’s views litic sore (simple) necessarily produces a suppurating bubo; any attempt to prevent such an affection from suppurating is entirely