260 ON CHRONIC DISEASE OP THE NIPPLE. On the value of a discharge from the nipple for diagnostic purposes. —When the discharge is slight or of a bloody nature, it does not indi- cate any special affection, though it is well known that in cancerous affections a discharge from the nipple is not unfrequent, the fluid having the appearance of blood-coloured serum, which is never profuse, and rarely amounts to more than a few drops. In the true cystic adenoceles, this symptom is of considerable value, for in all the cases which have passed under my observation, as well as in the majority of recorded ex- amples, this discharge from the nipple was a prominent symptom, the fluid being generally of a mucoid nature, and more or less blood-stained; and, although at times it occurred spontaneously and with relief to the patient, at others it could readily be induced by some slight pressure In adenocele. uPon the parts. In the ordinary adenoceles, this symptom is seldom present. It exists therefore as a symptom in the true disease of the breast structure, whether cancerous or adenoid; and while slight and uncertain in the former, it is more general and copious in the latter; consequently as a means of diagnosis it is of some value. On Chronic Disease of the Mammary Areola preceding Cancer. On disease of Sir J. Paget has recently pointed out (‘ St. Bartliol. Hosp. Reps.,’ areoiaT^ v°l- x> 1874), what my own experience confirms, that cancer of the cancer.m breast is sometimes preceded by a chronic skin disease of the nipple and areola; the disease in the majority of the fifteen cases in which he had observed it having “ the appearance of a florid, intensely red, raw surface, very finely granular, as if nearly the whole thickness of the epidermis were removed; like the surface of very acute diffused eczema, or like that of an acute balanitis. From such a surface there was always copious, clear, yellowish, viscid exudation.” In some cases, the eruption has presented the characters of an ordinary chronic eczema or psoriasis, the eruption spreading beyond the areola in widening circles, or with scattered blotches of redness covering nearly the whole breast. “ The eruption has resisted all treatment, both local and general, and has continued even after the affected part of the skin has been involved in the cancerous disease.” “ The cancer has always been in the substance of the mammary gland, beneath or not far from the diseased skin, and always with a clear interval of apparently healthy tissue.” Micro- Mr. Henry Butlin has also shown, that these changes are due to an scopical extension of the disease from the surface of the nipple to the smaller appearances. a]Kj acjnj 0f t}ie giand, these parts being found filled on micro- scopical examination with proliferating epithelium which at times escapes from the ducts by rupture or growth into the surrounding tissues—thereby producing the full formation of carcinoma (‘ Roy. Med.-Chir. Trans./ January, 1877), the mechanical retention of the epithelial element within the gland and ducts evidently playing an important part in the progress of this disease. Under these circum- stances, it is wise where collections of epidermis collect upon the nipples to follow “ Busch’s practice in cases of epithelioma and remove them by the application of a lotion of soda from 3 to 6 grains to an ounce.” On the discharge Ironi nipple. In cancer. In cystic 'adenocele.