347 DISLOCATIONS OP THE WRIST. large and the soft parts are materially injured, excision of the joint should be performed, the success attending this practice generally being very satisfactory. When the vessels and nerves are clearly so in- jured as to preclude the possibility of a useful limb being secured amputation may he required. In all these dislocations of the elbow, the surgeon should he careful to ascertain that they are uncom- plicated ; that no fracture co-exists; or, what is more common in young subjects, that no displacement of the lower epiphysis of the humerus is present, such as is shown in Fig. 448. This can only he made out by a careful comparison of the sound and injured sides, and the appreciation of the crepitus of fracture, the crackling of effusion, and the semi-crepitating feel of a displaced epiphysis. Dislocations of the Wrist. These are exceedingly rare accidents, the majority of cases recorded nisIoc t- as being of this nature being fractures of the lower end of the radius, of the wrist. What is known as Colies’s fracture is the more common form of accident. Dupuytren pointed this out years ago, and the truth of the observation is now fairly recognised. When dislocation does occur the hand is displaced either forwards or backwards, the ends of the radius Hand and ulna forming prominent points in the opposite positions, and the fonvards- styloid processes of the radius and ulna being recognisable points in a line with the shafts of the bones of the forearm (Fig. 449). This feature is important, for when the displacement of the hand is due to a fracture of the lower ends of the radius and ulna, the styloid processes will be in connection with the hand, instead of the shafts of the bones. Treatment.— Reduction by manipulation is readily performed, extension of the hand and direct pressure upon the displaced bones, as a rule, effecting the sur- geon’s purpose. The parts should be kept in position by an anterior and a poste- rior splint extending to the flexure of the finger. The splints should be removed, however, as soon as the parts have become firm, and pas- sive movement of the fingers should be enforced. Dislocation of the lower end of the radius with the hand may take Dislocation of place whenever the hand is forcibly pronated or supinated. When lower end °f forcibly pronated, the ulna projects backwards, and the radius and baud radius' forwards; when supinated, the reverse conditions are found to exist. Fig. 449. Treatment. Dislocation of the hands forwards. Taken from a cast of Mr. Cadge’s, copied from Erichsen’s wnrlr Fig. 448. Separation of the lower epiphysis.