494 LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. Formation loose cartilages. tirely bony. The cartilage in the specimens which we have examined was very fibrous, and the cartilage-cells small. The calcareous matter had evidently not formed after any definite method, or in any pur- posive direction, as should occur in the building up of normal bone- tissue, and the bone had no regular system of Haversian canals or bone- corpuscles. The former occur as spaces of irregular shape and position, and the corpuscles, with hut few canaliculi, are often more like calcified cartilage-corpuscles, and have no arrangement in relation to them. “ Prom this short description, and also from Pig. 565a, it will be seen that the specimens exhibit the formation of bone in its various stages; they show the primary cartilage stage, the secondary calcareous stage, and its ultimate issue in true hone, the bone being, as might be expected, of a somewhat irregular build, of “ Having thus regard to their general structure, it would then seem most probable that since they are in their essence bony, loose carti- lages must form in connection with bone-forming tissue, and these, so far as is known, are found in the involutions of the synovial membrane at the edges of the articular cartilages. This view is consistent also Fig. 56oa. Microscopical appearance of loose cartilage, a. Calcareous matter, b. Small-celled cartilage, in parts more fibrous than represented, c. Bone. with the appearances found in certain joints in cases of osteo-arthritis; such, for instance, as a case recorded by Mr. Wagstaffe in the ‘ Patho- logical Society’s Transactions,’ vol. xxiv, 1873, p. 192; or specimens 954—956b in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. In all these the formations may he seen in situ. It is also in accord with tlia generally received opinion as to the more usual formation of loose cartilages at the present time. “ But in connection with this subject the so-called ‘ melon-seed bodies ’ found in joints and in the synovial sheaths of tendons an on bursse must be considered. As is well known, they are geneia y abnormal developments of the synovial fringes, sometimes inflammatoiy, sometimes, perhaps, as was suggested by Rokitansky, due to cystic