LITHOTRITY. 105 Opinions differ with respect to the removal of the fragments; most Opinions surgeons prefer leaving this to the natural action of the bladder, and renfovHl'cff in this view my own opinions tend, and I have usually practised it, fragments, hut Sir W. Fergusson advocated instrumental interference. “ I have generally,” he wrote, “ as a first step introduced a lithotrite of considerable size, equal to a No. 10 or 11 bougie, and broken the stone into various fragments. Next I have taken the smaller lithotrite, attacked these fragments, and then have used a small scoop, with the Use of small object of removing several fragments, so that the patient might have 3^Oop 1 '" satisfactory evidence that the stone had been crushed. In a few days after, the small crusher and scoop have again been used, particularly the scoop, wherewith the fragments, when found sufficiently small, have been extracted singly or two or three at a time. Thus, instead of waiting for the spontaneous escape of the broken portions, a process usually both uncertain and tardy, they have been got rid of by direct and precise surgical interference. By this means a stone may be removed with a rapidity little short of the time needful for lithotomy.” “ Occasionally, when over-anxious for a rapid cure, I have extracted fragments rather too large to come rapidly along the urethra, par- ticularly in the prostatic or membranous portion, or at the triangular ligament. In some, when the urethra nearest the neck of the bladder has been rather roughly used, there has been considerable irritation.” But “in many instances I have been able to effect one or two opera- tions within ten days, which, according to custom, would take weeks or possibly months.” In paralysis of the bladder this practice is also proved by Fergusson to be of great value; indeed, he states that “ such a condition is positively favourable to that process, for there is generally in such cases an apathetic state of the mucous membrane which permits of the free use of instruments required for the removal of fragments.” That the process must be fol- lowed with caution, the experience of the able surgeon I have quoted is a sufficient proof. On his high authority I now recom- mend it. In the majority of the cases of lithotrity that have fallen into my Discharge of hands, I have left the discharge of the fragments to natural pro- fragments cesses, and had no reason to regret it. In all, success followed the *efttonatural practice. In one only have I subsequently had to perform lithotomy. 1 Where the prostate is enlarged and the fragments prevented from passing, Fergussou’s plan of removing them by the scoop or small lithotrite is a good one, and, for the same purpose Clover’s ingenious instrument (Fig. 319a) may be used. It is based on the same principle as one employed by Sir P. Crampton and is a catheter with a large eye to admit fragments, fitted closely into a glass receiver, and an ex- hausting india-rubber bottle at the end. 1 have used this on many b, occasions with satisfactory success. I adopt at times the practice instruments. I have been in the habit of using for washing out the bladder, and employ a long piece of tubing fitted on to the end of the catheter, the tubing acting as a syphon and evacuating the contents of the bladder with great facility (Fig. 321). I am disposed to think this method may be practised more extensively with advantage. Since writing this, I find Professor Dittel, of Vienna, has advocated a like practice (‘ Practitioner,’ March, 1871).