129 STRICTURE OP THE URETHRA. overfioic of urine giving rise to incontinence which is a direct result of Incontinence, chronic retention. A physical examination of the abdomen of a patient under these circumstances will reveal the distended viscus as a central globular swelling, giving a dull sound on percussion. During these changes, others no less important are going on at the Conditions seat of stricture; the urethra behind the stricture dilates—this dilatation gten'*"^rc being mechanical and the direct result of the ineffectual efforts of the bladder to overcome the obstruction (Fig. 357). As the pressure con- tinues, inflammation of the urethra and parts around appears, the tissues as they expand become indurated, and after a time, ulcerate from the continued irritation. A few drops of urine then percolate into the cel- Abscess, lular tissue behind the stricture, and, setting up suppuration, form a urinary abscess, which to the finger will appear as a deep-seated perineal swelling. Where the abscess is slow in its formation, it will be indolent and Fistula. painless, but if rapid, very painful, and when opened or left to natural processes it will almost to a certainty be followed by a perineal urinary fistula. If, however, the abscess and the urethral stricture be left unrelieved, and the bladder with the abdominal muscles still continue to act and ineffectually to overcome the urethral obstruction, the urine by being forced into the dilated urethra behind the stricture and into the perineal abscess communicating with it, will sooner or later, unless the stricture be relieved, cause rupture of the abscess into the cellular tissue of the parts around, and as a result give rise to extravasation Extravasa- of urine. tion- If this giving way of the parts appears during the efforts of the patient to overcome the stricture, or the spasmodic action of the bladder and abdominal muscles, a sudden relief from the previous agony and the sensation that something has given way may for a time lull the apprehensions of the patient, and mislead him into the idea that all is well, hut the swelling of the perineum, scrotum, penis, and supra-pubic region, which must soon follow, with the absence of any flow of urine through the natural channel, will reveal to the professional eye the true nature of the accident, and prove that the urethra has given wny behind the stricture, and extravasation of urine has taken place. Instruments for the Detection of a Stricture. For the detection of a stricture as well as for its dilatation, metallic Catheters catheters, elastic catheters or filiform bougies may be employed. stricture*1 °r The metallic catheter I prefer is that figured 342-3. The curve " Ure' being short, the end bulbous and a size larger than the shank, this form of catheters is very perfect for mere examination purposes. The elastic instruments are upon the French model and are made of the same material throughout, a groove in the top answering as a substi- tute for the ivory head which is never known to keep its place, and when a catheter has to be fastened into the bladder, the benefit of this arrangement is at once proved. These catheters are made verv small (Fig. 358), even to the half size. For dilating a stricture they should always be preferred. The filiform bougies are made of the same material as the elastic catheter or of catgut or whalebone. I prefer the first and last, ns they are made very fine and smooth, with or without olive tips; some are VOL. II. y