Head to be bent forward. Warm and moist atmosphere. When (Esophageal tube required. Tracheotomy in cut throat. Contraction and fistulm after wounds. 20 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. executed. The head should he kept forward by the application of bandages, and water dressing applied to the wound itself; constant attention is demanded of the nurse to keep the wound clear of dis- charge, and to see that no obstruction to the breathing takes place. The atmosphere the patient breathes should be kept warm and made moist by the introduction of steam, and the wound covered with muslin. The closest attention should be paid to the patient by a skilful nurse, and every mental and bodily want or weakness cared for. As regards nourishment, abundance should always be provided, although it is not such an easy task for the patient to take it. When the pharynx or oesophagus is extensively opened, the patient should never be allowed to swallow, but be fed by means of a tube passed either through the nose or mouth, and not through the wound, and directed with the finger carefully down the throat into the lower portion of the oesophagus. Through this, beef tea, eggs, brandy, and other liquid nourishment, such as the symptoms indicate, may be periodically administered. I have an instance before me where the pharynx was extensively opened above the os hyoides, and where the patient was kept alive by such means for nearly six weeks, the tube having been passed through the nose. At the end of this time he was able to swallow, and recovery ensued. When acting as dresser to the late Mr. Aston Key, I bad a case where the wound was inflicted through the trachea, dividing the oesophagus. In this instance the man was fed twice daily through a tube passed through the mouth and directed with care into the lower oesophageal opening; this practice being carried on for many weeks, was rewarded by recovery. The plan of treat- ment just indicated, however, is only rational, and is such as any surgeon would naturally suggest. All complications, such as suppura- tion in the cellular tissues around the wound, bronchitis, or broncho- pneumonia, are to be dealt with as they arise. Some have sug- gested the propriety of tracheotomy in severe cases of cut throat, so as to allow the wound to be closed. I am unable, however, to see the advantages offered by this practice in ordinary cases; although in wounds involving the epiglottis or upper part of the larynx, when inflammatory oedema appears as a secondary result, causing obstruction to respiration and threatening life, there is no doubt as to the wisdom of the practice. These cases, however, are uncommon. Among the most remote dangers of such wounds, the mechanical obstruction of exuberant granulations ought to be mentioned; like- wise, some narrowing of the air-passage, as a consequence of contrac- tion of the cicatrix, or tracheal fistulse. These results are common to traumatic and surgical wounds of the part. In Prep. 171111, Guy’s Hosp. Museum, both the trachea and oesophagus are much contracted above the opening, and, in a less degree, below. This preparation was taken from a patient who had lived for many years after a wound which had involved both the trachea and oesophagus. In 1873, I was called upon to perform tracheotomy on a man, set. 57, who had cut his throat through the thyroid cartilage sixteen months previously, and for eight or ten months had been suffering from gradually increasing difficulty of breathing, due to the contraction of the air-passage, and this patient has ever since been obliged to wear the canula. In the seventh vol. of the * Clin. Soc. Trans.’ an interesting case of the kind has been recorded by Mr. H. Lee.