288 ON OVARIOTOMY. ( Extirpation of the Uterus. Extirpation of the uterus. When necessary. Cases applicable. Successful operations. A grave operation. This operation, extirpation for fibro-eystic disease and fibrous tu- mours filling the abdominal cavity, is one that will probably become more frequent as time progresses; but, under any circumstances the operation ought not to be undertaken until the tumour has acquired such dimensions as to threaten life, or to render what remains of it miserable. These tumours have often been mistaken for ovarian and operated upon as such, the mistake in diagnosis having only been discovered during the operation. As a rule, they are slow in their growth, solid in their nature, and low down in their pelvic position. They usually also attack women at a later period of life than ovarian tumours. In 1873, I removed a fibrous tumour the size of a large cocoa nut from the right cornu of the uterus at the same time that I removed a large ovarian tumour from the left ovary. The lady was set. 51, and recovered. The fibro-cystic uterine tumours, however, often present all the external features of the more solid ovarian, and cannot be diagnosed, more particularly when a pelvic examination reveals but little. When the uterus can be made out to form part of the tumour, and to move with it; when the uterine sound can be passed freely into the cavity of the uterus, and be made to extend far beyond its normal distance; when at each monthly period the flow is profuse; when the tumour is fixed well in the pelvis and the abdominal veins, &c., are turgid from its mechanical pelvic pressure, something more than a sus- picion of its fibro-cystic nature may be formed j but when none of these symptoms are present, the diagnosis cannot be made with cer- tainty. The operation of extirpation of the uterus has been performed with success by Clay of Manchester, Storer of Boston, Koeberle of Strasburg, Keith of Edinburgh, Wells, Thornton, Davies Colley, and myself. My own case was in the person of Miss M—> set. 26. The tumour had been growing for three years, and for this she had been under the care of Dr. Oldham, who believed the case to be one of ovarian disease. He sent her to me for operation. On May 19th, 1871, I operated, and, finding the uterus and both ovaries diseased, I removed the whole, fixing its base with a large clamp. An uninter- rupted recovery took place. Full particulars will be found in the ‘ Trans, of Obstet. Soc.,5 1873. I have operated on three other cases but not successfully, one patient dying from haemorrhage caused by the rupture of a pelvic vein, and the others from the shock and peritonitis. In two, I removed the uterus and its tumours by means of the chain ecraseur made by Meyer, of Great Portland Street, and I believe this to be the best instrument for the purpose. The chain should be passed well round the base of the growth, and screwed up slowly. Mr. Spencer Wells prefers a stout pin about the size of a penholder, around which a figure of 8 ligature is passed, the two together acting as a clamp. This operation is the gravest that the surgeon can undertake, the shock to the system being far greater than in ovariotomy. A good account of the cases done, up to 1866, will be found in the ‘ American Journ. of Med. Science ’ for January, 1866.