505 INFLAMMATION OF THE BONES. whole bone when both membranes are equally involved. "W hen sup- puration takes place, it may occur as a diffused abscess in and around Diffused the bone; when in the hone, it is known as osteo-myelitis or endostitis, »^ceess 01 and may give rise to a local abscess in the hone with 01 without necrosis or a sequestrum; and when around it as periosteal abscess, a Local abscess condition which is mostly followed by a more or less extensive ne- 0 crosis. In local periostitis, a small portion of bone alone may die, and, as oir James Paget has shown (‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ 1870), remain quiescent under a puffy or suppurating swelling. The character of the discharge in these cases is of importance, and Character of while pus the result of periostitis differs in no respect from that found in P“^8 a other tissues, in endostitis, ostitis, and osteo-myelitis, it is mixed freely ° with oil-globules. In a striking case of this latter affection in a girl, set. 10, where a free incision was made down to the tibia, the surface of the fluid evacuated was covered with oil cells. Roser has made a like observation. Acute Inflammation of Bone, whether periosteal or endosteal, osteo-myelitis is a very grave affec- Clinical tion, and is chiefly found during the growing period of hone before symptoms of puberty. It occurs, too, in the feeble and cachetic, and in those termed scrofulous; in the shafts of the long bones, and such as are most exposed, of bone, as the tibia and ulna; although it is almost as frequently seen in the femur. The bones of the upper are probably more rarely affected than those of the lower extremity. It is often the result of some local injury or exposure, though as often as not no such exciting cause can be made out. The disease generally is ushered in with a deep aching pain in the Symptoms, bone with local tenderness, intense constitutional disturbance, increase of temperature, and often a rigor. The pain in the limb is speedily followed by swelling which is evidently deeply placed, aud is not marked by any external evidence of inflammation, such as redness; but as the swelling increases, the soft parts covering it become tense andoedematous, and the veins of the part look full, such symptoms indi- ; eating deep-seated obstruction, while any attempt at movement or pres- sure causes suffering. When the disease is situated in the articular end of a bone, it is constantly mistaken for rheumatic fever. If the disease is periosteal in its origin, the skin soon becomes in- When volved and local redness appears, the slightest touch exciting pain, periosteal. If endosteal at the onset, gentle manipulation will be allowed, aud When many days will pass before redness and other external signs of eudosteal. I inflammation show themselves, these appearing only when the disease has spread to the periosteum, and through it to the soft parts around. : When suppuration ensues, the skin from being tense and cedematous Whcn 1 becomes inflamed, and the constitutional disturbance worse ,• sleep- suppuration lessness, and probably delirium with a feeble pulse appear; rigors ensues, become more frequent, pain is more intense, and unless relief be afforded by a free incision down to the bone, death by exhaustion and '■ probably by blood-poisoning is apt to occur; since there is a close con- | nection between acute inflammation of bone and septiemmia. (Vide I Chapter 1.) When the inflammation is essentially periosteal, more or less well