402 FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS. Lower end. Pistol splint condemned. Gordon’s splint. angles and the hand held midway between pronation and supination; two well-padded broad splints extending down to the fingers being firmly fixed on by strapping, broad bands, or a roller (Pig. 492). When, as in fractures of tbe shaft, there is a disposition for the fragments to fall inward, some extra pad may be employed. The splints should be removed after three weeks, and freedom given to the hand, movement of the muscles being encouraged; shorter splints or some immoveable apparatus should also be substituted down to the wrist whilst union is being consolidated. Lateral pressure of the bandages must always be avoided. In fractures of the lower extremity of the radius the old-fashioned pistol-shaped splint is still in favour with some, its object being to keep the hand and wrist adducted, and thereby to counteract the deformity that so commonly attends this form of fracture. Some surgeous, and more particularly the American apply it to the palmar, and others, in- cluding Nelaton, to the dorsal aspect, with a shorter second splint. I am no believer iu its virtues, for if the fracture be impacted, and the fragments are not loosened, it is useless, as union has only to go on between the impacted fragments for a cure to be effected; and when the fragments are loosened and the bones brought into apposi- tion by extension and manipulation, the pistol splint is not wanted, indeed, it is probably injurious, causing displacement of the broken bones. A well-padded broad anterior splint, reaching to the roots of the fingers, with a dorsal splint, answers every purpose, the wants of the individual case determining the amount and position of the extra padding. Ur. Gordon, of Belfast, has recently introduced a splint that has found favour. It “ consists of the body, the ulnar and bevelled por- tions, with a curved back splint. (Fig. 493.) The lower end of the ulnar portion is curved forwards and hollowed to receive the inner bor- der of the flexed hand, with a slit for the carpal strap. The bevelled portion is secured to the body of the splint nearly half an inch internal to its margin; it is cut off obliquely from without inwards and from below upwards; it is applied to the palmar surface of the upper frag- ment, which it is its office to fix. The lower end of the back splint is much curved forwards. This curve, with a thick pad, is necessary to enable it to press the base of the metacarpus, the cai’pus, and the lower end of the lower fragment well forwards for the restoration of the Fig. 493.