414< FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. found combined. There is no injury to the liip-joint in which the head of the femur rests and can he made to rotate in the acetabulum and in which immediate shortening is ever found, with the exception of a fracture; and there is no form of fracture that occurs under like cir- cumstances, with the exception of the impacted, that is not accompanied by crepitus that can be readily detected, with complete eversion of the foot, marked shortening, and loss of power over the limb. These points are well brought out in a paper in the ‘ Med. Times ’ of 1869, in which I gave a careful analysis of fourteen cases. Fio. 504. Fig 605. Intra-capsular fracture of llie neck of femur. Case of the late Mr. T. E. Bryant. Prep. 118750, Guy’s Mus. Doubly impacted fracture of the neck of thigh-bone. Meaning of sudden shortening. Of gradual shortening. Eversion. Bigelow’s views. When sudden increase in the amount of shortening takes place some days after an injury to the hip, the separation of the impacted hones and the drawing up of the lower fragment should he suspected, and, when some gradual shortening follows, it signifies the absorption of the injured neck of bone. The eversion of the limb as found in the non-impacted fracture is due to the simple weight of the broken limb, aided by the action of the powerful external rotator and possibly of the adductor muscles. The position of the limb in the impacted fracture, whether slightly everted, straight, or inverted, is determined by the impaction of the anterior or posterior wall of the neck, and by the fact, that the foot will he fixed by the impaction in the position in which it existed at the time of the accident. In non-impacted fracture of the narrow end of the neck or true intra-capsular fracture, there is usually more shortening than in the fracture of the base; this symptom depending in both of these cases upon the amount of separation of the fibrous covering of the broken bone. In the former, crepitus is also less distinct. In both these forms the shortening will he made to disappear by extension, whilst in the impacted, in any of its varieties, no such effect will be produced by ordinary force. It can only he by carelessness that a contused hip is mistaken for a fractured thigh, impacted or otherwise. I have, however, known this error to he committed. “ The practical importance of readily identifying this fracture,” writes Bigelow in his valuable monograph on the hip, “ lies in the