145 EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. objects to keep in mind; first, to free the tissues, already infiltrated, of their extravasated urine, and thus prevent their total destruc- tion ; the second, to secure a free and ready outlet for the urine from the bladder, and thus relieve the retention and prevent an extension of mischief; and the third, which is no less important, to cure the stric- ture, and thereby remove the cause on which the complication originally depended. The first object is readily secured by free incisions made through the integument into the infiltrated cellular tissue, the second may perhaps be fortunately secured by the passage of a catheter, which when it fails, the object may be obtained by puncturing the bladder through the rectum ; but this latter practice is only a partial remedy, and not scien- tific ; it relieves immediate symptoms, but nothing more, leaving the stricture, the “ fous et origo rnali,” unnoticed and untreated. The right treatment, therefore, is the one which will relieve the retention, give free vent to the infiltrated urine and treat the stricture, that is, which can of itself fulfil the three required conditions to which attention has been drawn; and this is found in either the external division of the stric- ture, or in the perineal section. By either operation, the obstruction to the flow of urine is removed and the stricture divided, an outlet is obtained for the urine which has been infiltrated, and a free vent given for subsequent micturition. Free incisions, therefore, ought to be made into the parts infiltrated with urine, as well as the perineal incision ex- tensive and deep enough to lay bare and open freely the urethra, doing this, if possible, upon a grooved staff, forced through the stricture, and when this end cannot be attained, by the operation which has been already described in another page. A small grooved staff may, however, be passed in by far the majority of cases, the employment of some force being perfectly justifiable to make it pass through the strictural portion. Fig. 367. Urinary fistulae. These may be the result of a urinary abscess bursting in the perinamm or scrotum, or the consequence of a more diffused urinary extravasation, the fistulae, under these latter circumstances, appearing in the perinaeum', VOL. II. " jo Objects to keep in mind. Free incisions. Catheterism. Perineal incision. Urinary fistula;.