456 DISEASES OP KNEE-JOINT. Arrest of growth in the bone may result. On the diagnosis of hip disease. anchylosis; and in the minority with hony. In the * Medical Times and Gazette ’ for 1869, I illustrated all these points fully by a series of cases. A very beautiful example of bony anchylosis is represented in Fig. 544. It sometimes happens when articular ostitis has attacked the head and neck of the femur in childhood, and recovery has taken place with either a movable or anchylosed joint, that some arrest of growth in the bone may be the result. I have seen this in a child, aet. 8, who had been under my care when five years of age for articular ostitis, from which she perfectly recovered; the femur on the affected side being an inch shorter than its fellow, the tro- chanter nearer the median line of the body and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; the seat of the shortening being clearly in the neck of the femur, which had been arrested in its growth. (Fig. 545.) The diagnosis of hip disease is to be made after a careful estimation of the value of the symptoms as a whole, and not upon one or more supposed typical symptoms. The limping of a child with infantile paralysis of the leg has been confused with that from disease of the hip; but the wasting of the limb and the absence of pain ought to prevent such an error. The pain of spinal disease, of psoas abscess, of suh-iliac abscess, of some glandular affection of the groin associated with limping, and nerve pain extending down the limb may mislead; hut the knowledge of these facts may prevent the repetition of such mistakes. A congenital displacement of the head of the femur has been frequently mistaken for the affection (vide p. 370). Disease of the bursa connected with the psoas muscle in front of the joint, which at times communicates with it, may ren- der the diagnosis difficult, but the pain on pressure in front of the joint which exists in disease of the bursa, and the pain on pressure behind the trochanter in hip disease, is enough to distinguish the two. Disease of the bursa beneath the gluteus maximus muscle may also at times simulate hip affection, hut with care the two affections can be distinguished. Fig. 545. Less liable to repair. Diseases of the Knee-joint. This joint is probably more frequently the seat of disease than any other, and in hospital practice, my own statistics tell me that it forms 40 per cent, of the joint cases admitted into Guy’s. The greater liability of the knee to injury, the thinness of its natural covering, and the complicated formation of the joint, together probably afford the true explanation of this fact. It is met with, moreover, in patients of a more mature age than hip disease, 62 per cent, of hip cases and only 32 of knee disease being found in children under ten. It must he admitted, however, that the knee when once diseased is less likely to