FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 410 Of the femur. Of its neck. Intra- and extra- capsular fractures. Impacted and unimpacted. All extra- capsular fracture at first impacted. Impaction dependent ou amount of violence. ture of the upper extremity are treated as out-patients, and of which no records are kept, the conclusion is weakened by a fallacy. Mr. Lons- dale, however, tabulated all cases at the Middlesex Hospital for six years, and finding that 516 examples of fracture of the lower extremity took place to 764 of the upper, proved that fractures of the upper extremity are 50 per cent, more frequent than those of the lower. Fractures of the femur may be divided into those of the neck or upper end, of the shaft, and of the lower or condylar end. > Fracture of the neck or upper end existed in 44 out of 217 consecutive cases admitted into Guy’s, or in one fifth of all cases. It is more frequent in the old than in the young, probably from the impaired nutrition of the bone, the cortex in the aged being always thinner and the cancelli larger. I have, however, seen it in a hoy, ait. 12, and a man, ait. 27. Stanley and Hamilton have recorded examples at even an earlier age. In Guy’s Museum there is a specimen taken from a child set. 9. (Prep. 1184.) When the fracture takes place near the head of the bone it has been called intra-capsular (Fig. 504), when near the trochanters, extra- capsular (Figs. 501-2)—terms that for practical purposes ought to be relinquished. Both forms may be impacted, and in Fig. 505 both are seen together. The best division of fractures of the neck of the femur seems to be into the impacted and unimpacted, the old division of intra- and extra- capsular fracture being as unscientific as it is unpractical. Fractures of the baseoi the neck are almost always impacted at their origin, and become unimpacted from some dislodgment of the impacted fragments, or comminution of the bone (vide Figs. 475, 501, 2). Fractures of the narroiopart of the neck may be impacted, but more commonly are unimpacted from the first. This form of fracture is more properly called intracapsular than any other (Fig. 504). In rare examples a double impaction of the head and neck of the bone is found (Fig. 505). Sir A. Cooper recognised this to a degree, though he did not quite see its importance, when, in describing fractures of the upper part of the thigh-bone, he wrote “ the fracture is placed at the root of the neck of the tliigh-bone, the trochanter is split, and the neck of the bone is received into its cleft. It frequently happens in this injury that the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is complicated with an injury of the trochanters, major and minor; the neck of the thigh- bone is forced at times into the cancelli of the major trochanter.” To the late Professor R. W. Smith, of Dublin, the thanks of the pro- fession are unquestionably due for having given prominence, to this class of cases, and in his valuable work on Fractures in the vicinity of joints, published in 1850, will be found nearly all that is known about the subject. I am fully prepared to endorse his opinions, and agree with him, that all extra-capsular fractures are, in the first instance, also impacted fractures.” I believe, moreover, that many so-called intra-capsular fractures and all mixed forms are primarily oi a like kind, and “ that it depends principally upon the violence with which the injury has been inflicted whether the neck of the bone shall remain implanted between the trochanters, or whether these processes shall be so completely separated from the shaft of the femur as to allow