227 SPERMATORRHOEA. the discharge of spermatic fluid containing spermatozoa with the urine, without sexual desire or sexual excitement. It is commonly associated Attendant with some derangement of the digestive organs, constipation, and symptoms, rectal irritation, spasmodic action of the levator aui acting on the vesiculm seminales and prostate gland. In its most complete form it is associated with an absolute loss of sensation about the veru mon- tanum on the passage of a sound, a patient thus affected allowing the introduction of an instrument without flinching; while the worst cases Causes, are associated with wasting of the testicles and varicocele. It is at times without doubt due to excess of venery, hut more commonly to Effects, masturbation. It commences almost always with nocturnal emissions which gradually become more frequent. These are at first attended with erotic sensation, although not so subsequently, and at last occur without erection. If copulation be attempted, the ejaculation takes place at once, often before the introduction of the organ. It ends in the total loss of sexual inclination and power. Lallemand says that “ seminal emissions supervening during micturition are the most serious.” He holds that “spermatorrhoea is nearly always dependent upon Lallemaml’s irritation of the prostate gland and its ejaculatory ducts, and believes Vlews- that in most cases this irritation, which also exists in the neck of the bladder, is the result of chronic inflammation of the urethra in the prostatic portion of the veru montanum. An old attack of urethritis is the most frequent cause of the seminal emissions, and these emissions are often related to stricture of the urethra.” Trousseau, however, while admitting the force of these observations. Trousseau’s believes that spermatorrhoea or incontinence of semen is due to some Vle"'s- imperfection in the nervous system of organic life, since it is so com- monly found in men who have had incontinence of urine in childhood. He looks upon the masturbation as an indirect proof that there is a had state of the nervous system, and the subsequent impotence, in- sanity, or paralysis as an aggravation of a nervous condition, of which masturbation was only the first morbid manifestation. (Trousseau, ‘ Clin. Med.,’ vol. iii.) This latter view is supported by the fact that in some cases of injury to or disease of the spinal column, sperma- torrhoea is a common associate. False spermatorrhoea is, however, a more common complaint. It False spernm- is supposed to be present when nocturnal emissions are frequent, when lorrb®a. diurnal emissions take place on any sexual thought, and urethral dis- charge of a glairy fluid attends defamation, when erections with dis- charge follow the slightest irritation, such as that produced by riding or walking from the friction of trousers, &c. Such cases are far from rare; and are commonly due to masturbation, but are not cases of true spermatorrhoea, although they often precede it. Nocturnal emissions may be too frequent, hut, if associated with sexual feeling, they are natural. They should, however, be checked, as they lead on to the true disease. The glairy fluid pressed out in defecation is rarely seminal; but is prostatic, of a transparent, tenacious charac- ter, and not milky. The whole genital tract in this affection is in a state of morbid sensibility, of hyperesthesia, and requires treatment, since the false spermatorrhoea is often only the prelude to the true. Treatment.—Trousseau regarding masturbation as a manifestation Treatment of some disease of the nervous centres, speaks strongly in favour of belladonna, and, so far as my experience has gone, I am disposed to Belladonna.