MALFORMATIONS OF PENIS. 168 Hypospadias. Treatment. and Holmes in five. I have operated only in two. Pour of Wood’s suc- ceeded completely; three of Holmes’s; and one of mine, the others being partially successful. The operation consists in bringing up flaps of skin from either side of the fissure and covering it in, fastening them together by sutures. For full details, vide ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. lii, and Holmes’s ‘ Surg. Dis. of Child.,’ 1868. In one case I destroyed the mucous membrane with the cautery, and thus turned it into a cicatrix, avoiding the ureters. Hypospadias is a term applied to any deficiency of the under surface of the urethra, and in the larger number of cases, the urethral orifice is placed below the glans at a spot corresponding to the preputial frsenum. In some, a depression exists in the glans penis corresponding to the natural outlet with several small depressions between the urethral orifice and the cup-like depression at the extremity of the glans; while in others, one or more foramina are present, situated below the true opening of the urethra through which urine escapes. The urethral opening in these cases is often small and re- quires enlarging. In more extreme cases the urethral orifice appears at the base of the penis, when the deformity is commonly associated with a bifid scrotum; under these circumstances, when the testes are absent, the question of sex is raised. In a case of this kind that I saw in 1867, the sexual passion was so strong that the man came to me to ask for cas- tration, as he was unable to copulate on account of the stunted con- dition of his penis, and the way in which it was held down by a band which caused it to arch downwards under excitement. The man at the time had testitis from ungratified passion. The operative measures that have been employed for the relief of this deformity have hitherto not been very successful, although re- cently (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Jan. 30,1875) Fig. 376. Mr. John Wood has recorded two cases of the balanic or penian varieties in which relief was given, and M. Duplay has pub- lished full details of his method of dealing with the more advanced form of malforma- tion, called the perineo-scrotal (Paris, 1874), Pig. 376, A. I think so well of Duplay’s operation that I will describe it. It has for its object, first, to separate the penis from the scrotum and destroy its arching, in order to allow erection and coi- tion ; and, secondly, to construct a new urethra from the abnormal perineal opening to the glans penis. To carry out the first indication, a free division of the fibrous bands connecting the Periueo-scrotal hypospadias, penis with the scrotum has to be made; and when this can be effected by a subcutaneous wound as adopted by Bouisson, so much the better. Duplay, however, incises transversely the tissues from without inwards, dividing, if necessary, the envelopes and septum of the corpora cavernosa; this incision leaves a lozenge-shaped wound (Pig. 376, b), the edges of which may be brought together by sutures (Fig- 376, c). After this