221 VARICOCELE. Malplaced testicles are less common than those just described. I Malplaced have, however, seen seven cases; in three, one of which I have reported testes. (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Reports,’ 1867), the right testicle was placed in the peri- nmum in its own independent scrotal pouch (Fig. 384), and in the other four the right testicle was in the perinreum, the scrotal sac being otherwise natural. There was in one a hernia associated with the mal- placed testicle; the bowel clearly descending into the tunica vaginalis down to the testicle. Varicocele. This signifies a varicose condition of the spermatic veins, and when On the disease is well marked their tortuosity and dilatations present the varicocele, appearance (Fig. 385) and impart the feeling of a “ bag of worms ” within the scrotum. It is more common on the left than the right side, the assigned causes of this preponderance being the more dependent position of the left organ and the liability of the vein to be pressed upon by a loaded sigmoid flexure of the colon. It is a disease of young adult life, and is doubtless often, although not always, the product of masturbation, or excess of venery. Anything that retards the return of the venous blood from the organ aggravates, if it does not really cause it. The affection is generally accompanied by a dull aching pain in the part as well as a sensation of weight or ful- ness, but these symptoms are rarely com- plained of at an early period of the affection. The pain often passes up the groin even to the loins, aud is relieved if the patient as- sume the recumbent position, or even by elevating the scrotum. Treatment.—If constipation exists, the bowels must be regulated. Treatment. If the scrotum be pendulous, cold bathing ought to be recommended, and the organ supported by means of a thin suspensory bandage. Tonics are often of use. When this palliative treatment gives relief and retards the progress of the disease, nothing more is needed; but when the disease is severe and these means are ineffectual, a more radical treatment is called for, which consists in the excision, destruction, or division of the veins. Excision is a practice which has been reintroduced since antiseptic Subeuta- surgery has become a fashion, and consists of the removal of about an ne0,ls inch of the diseased vein below the external inguinal ring, after the operation' application of a ligature of carbolised catgut above and below the part to be removed. I have seen good results follow this practice, and have known of had, and regard the operation as far more dangerous than that now to be described. Operation of Ligature.— This is now generally done by a subcutaneous operation. Some surgeons employ metallic wire for the purpose, others silken or hempen ligatures, ligaturing the veins in two places an inch apart. I prefer this operation to every other. Mr. Lee uses two pins to arrest the flow of blood, and performs subcutaneous division of the vessels Causes. Symptoms. Varicocele taken from case of Mr. Jacobson’s.