215 DIAGNOSIS OF A SCROTAL TUMOUR. and generally firmer to the feel; when punctured, it yields also a glairy From cystic fluid unlike the creamy material which comes away from the cancerous dlseaae' disease. The subject of diagnosis of all these growths will, however, be discussed hereafter. Treatment.—The only treatment which gives any comfort to the Treatment, patient is excision of the organ, and this should be done as early as the diagnosis can be made, for there is then less chance of the glands in the loin becoming involved. The general health must also be attended to with great care at the same time. On the Diagnosis of Scrotal Tumours. I propose now to consider the subject of the diagnosis of scrota] General tumours as a whole, to describe the train of thought which passes of through the surgeon’s mind when examining such a case with diagnostic gc'rbtal intentions, and to point out the special symptoms or their combination, tumours, as they tend to indicate the presence of any special affection. In doing this, I believe that a near approximation to truth may generally be made, when the history of the case and its special symptoms are carefully weighed. Great difficulty may occasionally be experienced in any given case, or it may be beyond our power to form any positive opinion upon its nature, but I am not disposed, on that account, to place among impossibilities the diagnosis of a scrotal tumour. There are gradations of probability in all our conclusions as to the diagnosis of any disease, and a certainty untainted by fallacy or doubt is rarely obtained; but I take it, we are as often correct in our judgment of a scrotal tumour as of any other affection. To aid the student in this task the following table has been drawn up. (Pp. 216, 217.) The first point the surgeon has to decide on being consulted as to Is it a the nature of a scrotal tumour has reference to the question of hernia, hernia ? Is the tumour connected with the testicle ? or has it passed down the direction of the cord from the abdominal cavity ? If the surgeon is able to isolate’the growth at its neck from the abdominal cavity by the thumb and finger, the question is at once decided, for almost all scrotal tumours can be so isolated, it being quite exceptional for any to pass up the cord so far as the internal ring. Rare cases of vaginal hydrocele, or hsematocele, however, in which the tunica vaginalis is open up to the internal ring form an exception. It being determined that the swelling is not a hernia, the nature of the tumour next claims attention. Is it a hydrocele or hsematocele ? Is it the product of inflammation is it a or of tubercular disease ? Is it a new growth altogether, and if so, is hydrocele or it innocent in its nature or malignant ? luematocele ? If the tumour prove translucent by transmitted light, the exist- Translucent ence of a hydrocele is fairly decided; but, then, is it an ordinary tumours, vaginal hydrocele, or encysted ? Should the tumour be large, even, and pyriform, and the testis be found, at the posterior part of the tumour either by means of manipulation or by the opacity displayed at one spot on transmitting light, vaginal hydrocele may be suspected; but should the testis exist in front or at one side, and the tumour have' been of very slow growth, small, and more or less globular or evidently multilocular, a cystic hydrocele may probably be diagnosed. The tapping of the tumour will, hbwever, settle the diagnosis; for in vaginal hydrocele the fluid will be more or less straw-coloured and