Diseases of larynx in relation to tracheotomy. Abscess of pharynx. Inflamma- tory affection of throat. Tumours of pharynx. Tracheotomy in acute laryngitis. In croup. 28 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. It is impossible in the following chapter to give a full descrip- tion of all the different affections to which the larynx is liable, nor would it be consistent with the object I have in view, since laryngeal affections come as much under the notice of the physician as the surgeon, and the latter is only consulted when medicine has failed to relieve symptoms and evidence exists of some progressive affection which by causing obstruction to the respiratory process, threatens life. In the following chapter I propose, therefore, to consider the diseases of the larynx in their surgical aspect only, and to view them simply in their relation to tracheotomy or other operative interference. In a general way it may be asserted, that tracheotomy may be called for under any circumstances in which obstruction exists to the respi- ratory act, mechanical or otherwise, such as in pharyngeal affections mechanically affecting the larynx ; in laryngeal disease acute or chronic, inflammatory or otherwise; or in tumours pressing from without upon the windpipe in some part of its course. It may also he possibly re- quired for some temporary purpose connected with operative surgery, to insure the maintenance of the respiratory act during the removal of a large pharyngeal or maxillary tumour. Pharyngeal affections obstructing the respiration. Abscesses about the pharynx or tonsils at times cause laryngeal obstruction, and such a complication should be treated by puncturing the abscess with a guarded bistoury. Inflammatory and ulcerating affec- tions of the throat, more particularly those called diphtheritic, are apt to spread to the larynx and set up a laryngitis. Indeed, Trousseau asserts, that in most cases croup begins in the pharynx. Tumours of the pharynx or tonsils are occasionally met with, pressing upon the larynx and interfering with its functions, or a cyst may develope at the back of the tongue behind the epiglottis, and, by its size, almost close the laryngeal orifice; or a naso-pharyngeal tumour may so press downwards as not only to threaten life by suffocation, but to cause death. In a large naso-pharyngeal tumour I had to treat, the former condition was met with, hut relief was given by the removal of the growth. In another case, one of cancerous tumour of the pharynx above the soft palate occurring in a boy, set. 18, and which I’apidly recurred after its removal, death ensued from suffocation, tracheotomy having been rejected. Suffocation from simple enlarge- ment of the tonsils I believe to he unknown, although it has occurred from cancerous disease. Affections of the larynx requiring tracheotomy. Inflammatory affections can never exist long without causing some closure of the glottis, thereby endangering life. In acute laryngitis of catarrhal origin, in membranous croup, and in diphtheritic croup, a few hours may be sufficient to produce this effect, either from oedema of the larynx, suppuration of the larynx, or the effusion of a false membrane. In all, the result is the same, mechanical closure of the glottis complicated with spasm; and in all, the important question presents itself as to whether medical treatment can he sufficient to check the disease, or surgical aid in the way of operative interference is re- quired. Trousseau, our great authority in this matter of tracheotomy in croup, maintained strongly, that the earlier the operation is per- formed the greater are the chances of success; that it ought to be performed before death is imminent; and that to whatever degree