279 ON OVARIOTOMY. My own practice has hitherto been influenced by such a conviction; Commence and I have in all cases commenced the operation by making a short "’ith short, abdominal incision, and, in many, have been enabled to remove the ff'uecegHiry. tumour without further trouble. But in certain examples in which difficulties appeared, and in which it was clear that adhesions existed, for the breaking down of which some force would have been required, and some working in the dark called for, I have been induced to increase the length of the wound upwards, even for an inch or two beyond the umbilicus, regarding such an increase of the incision as unimportant in comparison with the evil effects of violence, and drag- ging upon the tumour for the purpose of its removal, or the blind tearing down of the abdominal or visceral adhesions which have detained the growth. I have never seen any evil effects from the long incision when made Not to under the circumstances I have just indicated, but have, beyond doubt, [^g^rowth seen the bad results of an opposite practice, of violence which has through too been employed in an attempt to remove a large growth through a small an small opening, or to tear an adherent one from its abdominal or °Pem“g- visceral connections. The incision should also always be made sufficiently low. If too Incision high, considerable traction upon the pedicle of the tumour must be ,0 *!e. .. made to bring it into sight, and, with the tumour, the uterus will also *qW' be drawn out. This traction is always injurious, and should be avoided. When the lower end of the wound is too high up, this traction of the parts becomes unavoidable; by extending the incision downwards towards the pubes to a point corresponding to the upper part of the healthy uterus or about one inch above the pubes, this evil can be prevented, and, consequently, the practice I have just advised should invariably be adopted. On tapping the cyst. The cyst, having been exposed, ought to be tapped, and for this purpose Fig. 407. Trocar and canula for tapping with moveable forceps. i the instrument represented in Fig. 407, as made for me by Mr. Millikin, in 1864, is the one I prefer. It includes not only a trocar and canula i but a vulsellum forcep, which slides upon the latter, and, by being made | to grasp the cyst walls, holds the instrument firmly in its position, thus i enabling the surgeon to make traction upon the tumour for the pur- i poses of its removal. When the cyst lias been emptied and is of a simple nature, its re- On removal ( moval, unless adhesions exist, is readily effected, but when it is solid or of c^3t- • very compound it may be necessary, to allow of its extraction, to lessen