380 ON FRACTURES. Operative interference in compound fractures. Skey’s observations. Rule. Simple fractures into joints. Compound fractures into joints. Fracture bed. the carbolic-acid dressing is employed, the wound should be well washed with a weak solution of one part in a hundred, and dressed under the spray. The wound should be interfered with as little as possible, since now, as when the following words were uttered: “ The great mischief and bad success arising in the treatment of compound fractures is the dressing them every day and applying fresh poultices which necessarily move the ends of the bones. The limb if possible should never be moved.”—John Hunter, MS. Lect 1787. When the soft parts are much crushed, and the large vessels and nerves injured, amputation may be called for, more particularly in old subjects. In compound fractures “ scarcely any amount or form of fractured bone alone/’ writes Skey (‘ Operative Surg.’), “ would justify the im- mediate resort to the knife if taken singly, even supposing the bone fractured extensively into a large joint; for in such a case, although anchylosis of the joint would probably occur, it would prove a lesser evil than that of amputation. Superadded to a compound or commi- nuted fracture of bone, the injury may be rendered yet more serious by extensive laceration of the muscles. In considering this latter condition much will depend on the kind of laceration, whether the muscles are merely cut asunder, or whether contused or torn, and whether this injury involves a few only or the majority of the muscles of the limb. Again, we must examine with great care the condition of the vessels. Is the main trunk whole ? we might ask, in the sup- posed case of fracture of the thigh ; or in that of the leg, is the pos- terior tibial artery torn ? Is the limb colder than its fellow, or is the temperature considerably lower than the rest of the body ? If so, probably one or more arteries are divided. What is the condition of the nerves ? Does sensibility extend to the toes ? If not, probably the nerve is divided also. If the evidence of the integrity of both artery and nerve fail, and the sinking temperature of the limb and the loss of sensibility continue to increase, we have no alternative but ampu- tation.” If a doubt exist in the mind of the surgeon on the necessity of immediate amputation, he should wait, unless the patient be old, in which case let him act promptly. Simple fractures into joints require special treatment, as in a large number of cases although not in all, some impaired mobility of the joint will ensue; for this reason the joint itself should be placed at the most useful angle, and so fixed. Compound fractures into joints generally demand excision or ampu- tation. In the upper extremity when there is any hope of saving the limb, excision is doubtless the better operation. In the lower, the expectant treatment is certainly better than excision, and probably better than amputation if the parts,are not so injured as to render amputation at once a necessity, and if the age and general condition* of the patient justify an attempt to save the limb; but these points will again have to be considered among the special fractures. In gunshot wounds these views are now generally entertained. The fracture bed.—The best is, without doubt, a good horsehair mat- trass placed on a bedstead with a firm bottom; but where this does not exist, a board beneath the mattrass is a good substitute. A canvas