CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE BONES. 510 Chronic Periostitis and Endostitis. periostitis. ,. Chronic periostitis and ostitis are very common affections, more par- ticularly involving the shafts of the long bones. The ostitis is prob- ably the more common of the two, pure periostitis, unless from syphilis or injury being comparatively rare. These affections may be modified by syphilis, scrofula, or rheumatism, and may originate from some local cause or injury, but in all, their course is the same; the dis- eff™ional 6aSe Varying only in tlle rapidity of its progress, extent of its influence, and results. In one case, complete recovery may take place, the effu- Sclerous. sion being re-absorbed ; in another, the effusion may become organized as a superficial node or bony outgrowth (Fig. 577), or, as an enlarged, elongated area of dense bone (575). In exceptional cases, local sup- Fig. 577- '//etzrionc ccrnccllot/.s i bone- f s/ell of done . /tercosleum. Effects of periostitis. Symptoms. Pain. difference in symptoms between periostitis and endostitis. A s regards enlargement of bone. A s regards suppuration. puration may occur, giving rise to a chronic periosteal or endosteal abscess; in a large proportion of instances the bone dies wholly or in part, and thus gives rise to necrosis; whilst in some few, the bone, either upon its surface or interior undergoes a chronic disintegrating process known as caries. The symptoms of chronic periostitis and ostitis (endostitis) are in their nature very similar to, though less severe than those of the acute, the most constant being a dull aching pain in the part of a persistent kind, aggravated at intervals, and on hanging down the limb; the pain being almost always worse at night, more particularly in syphilitic affections. The constitutional symptoms vary according to the seve- rity of the local condition, febrile disturbance, and intensity of local action running hand in hand. In periostitis, the pain is generally local and attended with swelling at an early period of the affection, indeed, within a few days of its onset. In endostitis, the pain is generally more diffused through the whole bone, and will continue for weeks or months without any external evidence of enlargement, being too often regarded as “ rheumatic” or “ growing pains.” In periostitis, tenderness on manipulation is an early and constant symptom. In endostitis, the bone may be manipulated with gentleness without exciting pain; firm pressure, however, almost always causes suffering. In periostitis, the enlargement generally shows itself as a bossy or undulatory swelling on the surface of the bone, with one, two, or more nodes, upon the bone; syphilitic periostitis is generally multiple and undulatory, traumatic and other forms of nodes usually single. In endostitis, the enlargement appears as a general expansion of the bone in all directions; in rare cases as a distinct elongation. In periostitis, when suppuration is about to take