15 RHINO-PLASTIC OPERATIONS. must, however, always he careful to give himself abundance of new Mode of material; and, having satisfied himself of the wants of the individual performance, case, and that the parts upon which he is about to operate have long lost all traces of disease, he can then map out upon the centre or lateral portion of the forehead of the patient that portion of integument he proposes to transplant, having planned it beforehand on a piece of paper, plaster, or wash-leather. The shape re- quired for a nose and columna will he such as is indicated in Figs. 302 and 308, the flap measuring three inches in both diameters. The surgeon shall then make raw the whole sur- face of the old nose to which the flap is to be united, cutting a deep groove close down to the bones bounding the nasal cavity for the reception of the new flap. A sponge may then be firmly pressed upon this raw surface to arrest the bleeding, while the surgeon proceeds to dissect up the integument he had previously marked out upon the forehead. In doing this, care should be observed not to bruise or otherwise injure this borrowed skin. The incision should be clean and extend down to the hone. The flap should be dissected up boldly and freely, care being observed to leave a good neck through which the circulation can he maintained, and to make it long enough to allow of its being turned round. For this purpose, it is a good practice to make the incision on the side to which the twist is to be made a little longer than the other. When all bleeding has ceased, the frontal flap with the external surface still uppermost should be turned half round, and applied to the nasal raw surface, to which it is to be carefully stitched; the columnar portion being well pressed down into the groove made for it, and fixed. The new nostrils ought to he supported by oiled cotton wool or lint, and the surface covered with the same material to maintain its warmth. The gaping wound on the forehead can then to he brought together as far as possible by means of strapping, and left to heal by granulation— the operation of skin-grafting expediting repair. The sutures may he removed on the second or third day. For the next month, the greatest care is requisite in the dressing of the wound, and in keeping the nostrils up with a plug, the one suggested by Langenbeck being the best; and, as soon as the new flap has consolidated, the neck of integu- ment at the root of the nose may be divided. In the case illustrated (Fig. 309), such a practice was not called for, I operated upon it in 1872 with an excellent result. When the formation of the columna is required, Liston’s plan is the one generally employed, and is thus described in his own words : “ Restoration of the columna is an operation which, in this and other Fig. 308. Flap to measure three inches in both diameters.