415 fkactuk.es of the femur. fact that its progress, as regards both time and good union, is in general more favourable than that of the uuimpacted fractures; that though it is a comparatively common and disabling accident, it may exhibit little deformity; and, lastly, that the object of extension in its treat- ment is to steady the limb, and not to draw it down.” Tkeatment.—If it were as distinctly understood as it should be by Treatment, all students and practitioners that a fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone can be diagnosed without seeking for crepitus, that all but the gentlest manipulation of an injured hip is likely to prove injurious, and that any attempt to elongate the limb by forcible extension, to flex it or to rotate it with the view of restoring it to its natural posi- tion is likely to be followed by a breaking up of the impacted bones and consequently by irreparable injury, the treatment of these cases would be as satisfactory in its results as it is simple, and our work- houses be occupied with fewer cripples. Every case of fracture of the neck of the femur,, impacted or non-impacted, intra- or extra- capsular, in the young, middle-aged, or old, should be treated as if repair and union were sure to take place if the parts are kept at rest and in apposition; and, in the large proportion of cases, the hopes of the surgeon will not be disappointed. In the impacted fractures, union ought to be looked for if the broken fragments are left alone and not loosened by a careless or too curious manipulation. In the purely intra-capsular fracture, union may take place, osseous in many cases, fibrous in more. In a few there will be none, owing to a total separa- tion of the head of the bone from its attachments, or to the feeble power or age of the patient, or because the broken fragment receives too little nourishment to allow of sufficient reparative material being poured out, or because the fractured bones have not been kept suffi- ciently at rest and in apposition. Under these circumstances the head of the femur will he loose in the acetabulum with its broken surface smoothed into a cup-shaped cavity, where the rounded end of the broken neck of the femur plays as in a false joint. In the impacted fractures, the limb ought simply to be kept at rest, Of impacted and this object is attaiued by means of the double splint. fractures. In the non-impacted, extension is to be more thoroughly employed, the limb being brought down to a level with its fellow, and'maintained there by means of the long side splints and the use of weights (Fig. Splints. Fig. 506. Long splint, with weights for extension in fracture of the neck of the thigh-hone. 50G); or by what is preferable, the elastic extension as applied with Value of the double splint (Fig. 507), in which both limbs are kept parallel, double splint.