439 PATHOLOGY OF JOINT DISEASES. CHAPTER XXXII. DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. To assert that safe and scientific surgery can only be based on General sound pathology may appear to be a somewhat trite observation; remarks, nevertheless, it is true, so true indeed that it cannot be impressed too forcibly on all who seek or profess to practise our profession. Moreover, it should be the aim of every surgeon whose duty it is to practice and to teach, to demonstrate the truth of the assertion, and to establish his practice upon such a scientific basis. It is with this feeling that I now propose to consider the pathology of joint disease, to explain briefly the changes which the tissues undergo during inflammation, and the results to which those changes lead; setting aside for the present, disputed points of pathology, and reserv- ing for future consideration the subject of tumours involving joints. Diseases of a joint generally commence as an acute or chronic in- Qn the flammation of the bone or synovial membrane, although in the pro- primary seat gress of any case, and, of course, when disorganization of a joint has disease in taken place, both become affected; the extent, however, to which either1 tissue will be involved will depend greatly upon the seat of the original disease. When it has begun in the synovial membrane and disorgani- zation of the joint has followed, the disease in all probability will be found to have affected only the articular facets of the bones with the parts immediately beneath, and not to have involved the deeper structures. When the bones are the original seat of the mischief, and the inflammatory process has spread from them to the synovial membrane and disorganization of the joint taken place, the chief pathological changes will be seen in the osseous tissue, and either the whole or a part of the articular epiphysis, if not a portion of the shaft, will be involved in the disease. Under both circumstances, the car- tilage covering the articular facets will have disappeared. When, however, the bones are the primary seats of disease, the cartilages are shed more rapidly, as the articular cartilages derive most, if not all, of their nourishment through the bones; and, as a consequence, any per- version of nutrition and inflammatory changes of this tissue at once show themselves in the cartilages. Practically, there is no such thing as a primary disease of the arti- Ulceration of eular cartilages, no such process as so-called ulceration of cartilage, cartilage not independently of disease of other tissues. When the cartilages undergo & primary a change it is always secondary to some affection either of the synovialclisca3e- membrane, and then it is slow and partial in its action, or of the bone when it is rapid and complete. It should be remembered, however, that disease in the synovial membrane of a joint cannot exist for any time, or be of any severity without involving its ligaments, or the cellular tissue with which it is surrounded. Nor can inflamma- tory disease exist for any period in the articular extremity of a bone without more or less affecting its periosteal covering. It should be added, too, that there is good reason to believe that either bone or synovial disease may be started by a severe sprain or laceration of ligaments at their osseous or periosteal attachments.