RETRACTION OF NIPPLE IN TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. 259 which it is developed simply in a mechanical way ; it may separate or displace, hut never infiltrates tissues. On the other hand, it is the peculiar nature of the cancerous or malignant to infiltrate and involve every tissue with which it 'comes in contact. Applying, therefore, these two opposite features of the innocent and malignant tumours to gumm 0f the classof cases now under consideration, we shall readily understand how ° two very different local appearances may be produced; and how in the distinct cystic cancerous disease, the wound or surface will be characterised by characters, all the peculiarities of the cancerous ulcer, and in the cystic innocent tumour which may have ruptured from over distension, the margin of the wound or discharging cavity will look healthy, free from all ap- pearance of infiltration, and rather as if mechanically cut or punched out than ulcerated. In the cystic adenoceles in which it is not uncommon to Cystic find a sprouting and discharging intra-cystic growth protruding from adenoma, a wound through the ruptured integument, and presenting a very doubtful and sometimes cancerous aspect, the importance of this symptom cannot be overrated, for if found projecting through an orifice of the integument which is uuinfiltrated and apparently healthy such as we have already described, the innocent nature of the tumour may with some confidence be declared (Pig. 406). On the value of the Retracted Nipple as a Symptom in Tumours of the Breast. There can be little doubt that as a positive indication of can- Retracted cerous disease, the importance of a retracted nipple has been considerably nipple as ti overrated ; and that, although the symptom may be common in infil- 8y|uPtom- trating cancer of the breast, such a disease may exist without it; it may be present, moreover, in simple non-cancerous affections. For a re- Retracted trncted nipple may be regarded as an accidental symptom in the de- velopmentof a tumour, ns well as the product of mechanical causes, its syinptoui. presence being determined rather by the manner in which the gland is involved than by the nature of the disease. If any tumour, simple or malignant—any abscess, chronic or acute—attack the centre of the mammary gland, a retracted nipple in all probability will be produced; for as a disease so placed, necessarily causes material separation of the gland-ducts, their extremities, terminating in the nipple, will be drawn upon, and, as a consequence, a retracted nipple must follow. We thus find this symptom of frequent occurrence in the early stage of an infiltrating cancer of the organ, the nipple being always drawn towards the side of the gland which may be involved ; while at a later stage, when the infiltration is more complete, the nipple may again project. In a central chronic abscess of the breast, the retracted nipple is equally common, and in the true cystic adenocele it may be also present. In the ordinary adenocele, whether cystic or otherwise, it is rarely met with, for the reason that this disease is not of the breast-gland itself, but only situated in its neighbourhood. In rare cases, however, such an association may co-exist, and in one case in which I observed it, some blow or injury had preceded the development of the adenoid tumour, and it was open to a doubt whether the re- tracted nipple had not been brought about by some chronic inflam- matory condition. It should always be remembered, moreover, that a contracted nipple may be a natural condition.