DISLOCATIONS OP THE HUMERUS. 340 Dislocation associated with fracture. Mistaken for displacement off epiphysis. On the treatment of dislocation of the humerus. Mode of reduction by manipulation. it lias received, and I am indebted to Dr. W. Briggs, of Nashville, for calling my attention to it. It is based upon the physical fact, that in consequence of the rotundity of the thoracic walls, it is impossible for loth ends of the humerus to touch them at the same time. “ If the fingers, therefore, of the injured limb can be placed by the patient, or by the surgeon, upon the sound shoulder while the elbow touches the thorax, a condition that obtains in the normal condition of the joint, there can be no dislocation. And if this cannot be done there must be one, for no other injury than a dislocation can induce this physical impossibility.” Dr. F. Hamilton has likewise shown (‘ Lond. Med. Rec.,’ April, 1875) how in a dislocation, a rule will touch, at the same time, the acromion process and the elbow of the injured side, a condition that cannot exist in health. It sometimes happens, that the head of the bone after its apparent reduction, fails to remain in position and falls out again; and when this occurs, it becomes a question whether some part of the glenoid cavity is fractured or some other fracture exists. I have recently seen a case of dislocation of the head of the humerus forwards and downwards, in which a portion of the glenoid cavity was broken off and displaced downwards, associated with severe injury to the radio-spiral nerve. In children or young persons under twenty-one, the upper epiphysis of the humerus may be separated, or rather the shaft of the humerus may be displaced off the epiphysis, which retains its normal position, and, under these circumstances,the arm should be most carefully manipulated under chloroform, to make the diagnosis sure. In exceptional cases, however, this slipping out again is not to be explained by these com- plications ; for, in the case of a man set. 75, who had a dislocation back- wards, the head of the bone could not be kept in position till the muscles began to act after the effects of the chloroform had subsided, and I had to hold the bone in place till the patient recovered, and the muscles acted naturally. Treatment.—The use of anaesthetics has completely revolutionised the treatment of dislocations, and, at the present day, nothing can usually be simpler than the reduction of a dislocation of the shoulder, and what was formerly called reduction by stratagem is now the rule. “ If you can get a person off his guard,” wrote Abernethy, “ you have first to put your hand up to the head of the bone, depress the elbow, and it will sometimes succeed in putting it in,” and the modern surgeon, in describing the reduction of dislocations by manipulation, might use the same language. To reduce a dislocated humerus by manipulation, chloroform is essential, and when the patient is fully under its in- fluence as vvell as in the horizontal position the surgeon should grasp the shoulder with one hand, and the flexed elbow with the other (Fig. 439, a). When the dislocation is subglenoid or subcoracoid, the thumb of the surgeon may be placed over the head of the bone, and the fingers ovei the spine of the scapula, the thumb acting as a fulcrum; with the other hand the flexed elbow should be drawn from the side and extension made, some slight rotatory movement outwards being employed. When extension has been carried to its full extent, the elbow should then be raised and the arm made to describe a semicircle in the direction of the sternum and the face, and then suddenly brought down to. the side o the thorax, the head of the humerus at the same time being rotated inwards. The thumb of the opposite hand should give the right diree-