FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 390 Statistics. Seat. Symptoms. Fracture of acromial end. May be compound and comminuted. from muscular actiou, and I have seen one in a man, set. 44 (who had had syphilis nine years before), from simply lifting a heavy weight from the ground. The bone broke near the sternal end with a snap, and a good recovery followed. The case was brought under my notice by Mr. Couling, now of Brighton, when house-surgeon at Guy’s. The statistics of the Middlesex Hospital, as compiled from the experience of sixteen years, by Messrs. Fowler and Hulke (Holmes’s ‘ System,’ vol. ii), prove the clavicle to be more frequently broken than any other single bone, the radius standing next in order, although, including frac- ture of the radius with the ulna, the fracture of the clavicle stands second. Half the recorded cases occurred in children under five years of age. The bone, as a rule, is broken about its centre, although fractures of either extremity are met with. The line of fracture with rare excep- tions is oblique from without inwards, and from before backwards; the inner fragment having commonly a tendency to ride over the outer, the outer falling downwards and backwards. The symptoms are generally well marked. There will be inability to move the arm freely, with pain in the attempt, the patient support- ing the arm of the affected side. On comparing the shoulders of the two sides, the joint on the affected will be placed lower and more forward than on the sound, and, at the same time, drawn nearer to the median line of the body, even for an inch where the displacement is great. On passing the finger over the broken bone some depression and corresponding elevation of the broken fragments will be made out, and when the examination is made after the expiration of days with the effusion of much solid material. Crepitus can sometimes be detected, but it need not be looked for—this symptom, with the amount of diplacement, depending much upon the line of the fracture and its situation. Dr. R. Smith, of Dublin, points out (‘Treatise on Fracture,’ 1850), how in fractures of the acromial end of the bone between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, there is scarcely any displacement of either fragment; and, under these circumstances, the diagnosis has to be made by the pain produced on pressure over the broken point, and the crepitus educed by the movement of the bones in opposite directions through the fingers. He also shows, how in fracture external to the trapezoid ligament, the inner fragment being drawn upwards by the trapezius muscle, the displacement is great. In children, incomplete fractures of this bone may occur (Fig. 473). Fractures of the clavicle are sometimes comminuted and compound, and occasionally complicated with some severe injury to the vessels beneath. In the case of the late Sir R. Peel, the accident was followed by a pulsating blood tumour which was supposed to have been due to a rupture or laceration of some large vein, probably the subclavian, while from the severe pain that attended the injury, some of the nerves of the brachial plexus were believed to have been injured. Mr. Erichsen has recorded (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June 7, 1873) a case, in which the subclavian vein was compressed by a fragment of a broken clavicle, and in which amputation of the shoulder-joint was performed, on the sixteenth day, and I have seen one in which a broken clavicle wTas followed by arrest of pulsation in the artery of the correspond- ing arm. At St. George’s Hospital, there is a specimen in which