Operative interference only justifiable when joint is disorganized. On the treatment of suppuration of the knee- joint. When disease in the synovial membrane. When disease originated in the bone. Free excision. 478 EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. West, of Birmingham, that while of eighty-eight cases in which con- servative treatment was employed, seventy-one per cent, died, out of thirty-one cases treated by resection, eighty-three per cent. died. On the Treatment of Suppuration of the Knee-joint. It may safely be asserted that in no case of inflammatory disease of the knee-joint in which disorganization has not taken place should the idea of operative interference be entertained ; as, so long as this change is warded off, a reasonable hope of a cure with either a movable or stiff joint and consequently of a useful limb exists. Exceptional cases may be seen in which this rule is inapplicable, but they are rare. When, however, suppuration has taker, place, the question of opera- tive interference naturally suggests itself, and the surgeon considers whether natural processes are competent to conduct the case to a suc- cessful issue; whether the local disease is of such a nature as to be incurable, unassisted by art, or the general powers of the patient are sufficient to bear up against the demands that of necessity will be made upon them in the progress of a natural cure; and last, but not least, if it is expedient to make the attempt. These questions require for their solution much knowledge, thought, and judgment, a careful weighing of the probabilities of the case and of the cause of the disease. When the disease is in the synovial tissue alone and the powers of the patient are good, a cure by natural pro- cesses, assisted by art, is generally to be secured; for pathologically in such cases, there is no reason why recovery should not take place. Whereas, on the other hand, when the disease has originated in the bone, spread to the synovial membrane, and been followed by disor- ganization of the joint, a cure by natural processes is so improbable, that the removal of the diseased part by some operation is generally * demanded, for pathologically, good reasons exist why recovery can- not take place, and clinically this observation is borne out. It is true in suppuration of a joint from synovial disease, pulpy or otherwise, the result of a so-called rheumatism settling iu the knee, or of a puerperal synovitis, a traumatic synovitis, a gonorrhoeal synovitis, or any other, a cure with anchylosis is by no means uncommon, yet in all these, during their acute stage, the danger is always great, and it often becomes a question whether an amputation is not needed to save life, or to give the patient a chance. Amputations, however, under- taken for acute suppurative disease are mostly fatal, and operations of excision are likewise equally unsuccessful. Indeed, I hardly think either of these operations justifiable under such circumstances, and in this opinion most are agreed. What I believe to be a better practice is making a free excision into the joint—free enough to let out the pus that it contains, as well as to allow a free escape of all as it forms, and the introduction of a drainage tube, together with the daily washing out of the joint with iodine water. No retention of pus should be allowed under any circumstances. When suppuration has been set up in a joint from the degeneration of the pulpy synovial disease, the benefit of a free incision is very great, and it should be practised with a good hope of success before any other operative measure is undertaken. When, however, suppuration in a joint has followed the extension of inflammatory mischief from