LIPOMA—LUPUS. 5 attached to it in the pharynx; this end, which need not be more than six inches, may be left hanging down the patient’s throat. The plug should not be left in more than three or four days, but may be re- introduced if necessary, the surgeon taking care to preserve in sitii, the two pieces of cord that have been passed along the floor of the nose. Lipoma, or Hypertrophy of the nose is a readily recognisable affection, and is a disease of the Lipoma, skin and subcutaneous tissue (not of the cartilages), in which the fol- licles freely participate. It is confined to the apex and alse of the organ. The enlargement is sometimes general, at others, the swellings are pen- dulous, lobulated, and loose. The capillaries of the part are sometimes congested, giving the growth a purplish hue. As a rule, it is pain- less, and causes only mechanical annoyance. It interferes at times with vision and the functions of the nose, and, moreover, wounds vanity. Nothing but the removal of the growth can be suggested, which can Treatment, be done without danger and with no great difficulty. The redundant mass is to be dissected oft', care being observed not to encroach upon the nostril. This is best done by introducing the little finger or a spatula into the nostril, and shaving the redundant mass off the cartilage with a scalpel. Any bleeding taking place can usually be checked by cold, styptics, or torsion ; the wound that is left being allowed to granulate. The surgeon, however, should not take away too much or go too deep; and some covering to the cartilages should be left. The disease rarely returns. The late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, was the first to perform the operation. Lupus. This affection is more common on the nose than in any other part of the Lupus body, and is often very destructive; so much so, indeed, as to destroy the exedens. whole organ. It is, however, more amenable to treatment than is usually supposed. Too often it is described as a strumous, and therefore con- stitutional affection, and regarded as incurable. It would be well however if surgeons would practically regard it more as a local one. The best local treatment in severe cases is the scraping away of Treatment. Pig. 301. Fig. 302. Lupus of nose with the outline of a flap for a new nose. From life.