130 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. General symptoms. Rigors. Analysis of 100 fatal cases of stricture. Varieties of organic stricture. of the same thickness throughout, whilst others have finer points than shafts. They can often be insinuated through a narrow stricture when a catheter cannot be introduced, and are consequently of great value for dilating purposes. As guides into the bladder they are also of equal use, and particularly for internal or external urethrotomy. When these small bougies are used the urethra should be previously filled with oil. Fig. 358. During the development of a stricture, and more particularly when the stricture has become a real cause of obstruction, a patient’s general condition is rarely good, and what are generally known as dyspeptic symptoms commonly exist; as a consequence, the patient often loses flesh, looks careworn and ill, the digestive organs failing to do their duty as in health. As the disease progresses, a constant feeling of chilliness is very common, and rigors are not unusual; these symptoms being at times intermittent, and are often regarded as being due to “ ague.” Whilst a perineal abscess is forming, they are commonly present. When they are uncomplicated, however, with such a local cause and are still frequent, there is good reason to believe that they indicate some renal complication; for it cannot be too strongly impressed upon the surgeon’s mind, that no strictnre can long exist without producing secondarily important changes in the bladder and kidneys. Results of Stricture. When a stricture is neglected, renal disease is certain to follow, and when death takes place as a consequence of stricture, it will be from kidney disease if it has not been suddenly brought about by one of the complications of stricture, such as retention or extravasation of urine. Thus, out of 100 deaths from stricture analysed by Dr. Goodhart (‘Guy’s Rep.,’ vol. xix, series iii), which took place at Guy’s Hospital, in nineteen years the kidneys were suppurating in 41; wasted or inflamed in 18; diseased in a less degree or cystic in 7 ; and healthy in 34, or about one third. Organic strictures are not, however, all of the same character. The simple stricture is the most usual, and beyond the mechanical effects of its existence has no special feature. The irritable stricture is comparatively rare, and is characterised by excessive sensibility on being touched by a catheter, with a disposition to bleed. It is also prone to be associated with chilliness and even rigors. The contractile stricture may belong to either of the two former groups; its pecu- liarity consisting in its tendency to recontract after its dilatation. The cicatricial or traumatic stricture has characters of its owrn, and of these, its obstinacy is the most marked. It is important to bear these divisions of organic stricture constantly in mind, for the successful treatment of a case will often turn upon them recognition.