591 AMPUTATION AT THE ARM. * few bold sweeps of the knife, the head of the humerus should be disarti- culated, the knife being kept close to the bone, aud the lower flap Fig. 618. made, three or four inches long, by cutting from within outwards. If this part of the operation is done with care, the main artery of the limb will only be divided on the completion of the second flap, when the surgeon with his left hand can secure it between his finger and thumb until it cau be either twisted or tied. During the first step of this amputation, the arm should be held well out by an assistant, but during the second, at first, near the body, and when the knife has passed beneath the head of the bone it should be abducted. A very good stump usually follows this operation. At no joint of the body, however, is the surgeon more compelled to form his flaps according to the circumstances of the case than at the shoulder, since the majority of cases of amputation at this part are for injury, where the arm has been wholly or partially torn off, when the surgeon must make the best flap he can, and at times no flap at all. As good a stump as I have made at this joint was one in which a piece of in- tegument from the posterior part of the arm was alone available. I have seen many cases in which the flaps sloughed, and yet good cica- trices followed, the soft parts being readily drawn forward by the cicatricial process. Some surgeons in this amputation prefer making an anterior and Anterior and posterior flap, by perforating in front of the posterior axillary fold to posteriorflap. make the posterior flap, disarticulating and dividing the axillarv artery in the anterior flap ; but the operation, although good, is not so "efficient as the former. Amputation at the Arm. Excision of the elbow-joint, even when three or four inches of the Amputation humerus are taken away, is such a very successful operation that am- al tlie arm- putation at the arm is never called for when excision can be enter- tained, and this observation applies as forcibly to cases of injury of the