SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 17 Mr. Skey’s advice when, he says, “ Let it be the patient who urges the operation.” Of late years, Langenheck has suggested the propriety of dissect- ing up the periosteum from the frontal bone with the skin flap so as to give a bony nose, but it is a question how far this osteo- rhinoplasty is an advantage. The operation has not found much favour. When only one ala has to he restored, the flap may either he taken from the nose itself or from the cheek, the particulars of the plan being left to the ingenuity of the surgeon to determine. CHAPTER XVIII. SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. The larynx and windpipe may he contused from external injury, or, the cartilages and trachea rings fractured; the severity of the symp- toms following these accidents varying according to the amount of injury to the parts. Thus, some years ago, a case came under my care in which the thyroid cartilage was fractured obliquely across its body. The accident was attended with much bleeding and cough, hut these soon disappeared, and an excellent recovery ensued. In 1877, Dr. A. Corley, of Dublin, recorded a case, in which after death the second, third, and possibly the fourth cartilages of the trachea were fractured and projected unevenly into the tube, associated with suppuration around a necrosed cricoid car- tilage. The preparation was taken from a woman, fet. 36, who had been squeezed in the throat some weeks before, and was admitted into the Richmond Hospital with dyspnoea, stridulous breathing, congestion of face, and external signs of inflammation about her throat, and for which tracheotomy had been unsuccessfully performed. The trachea may also be completely divided subcutaneously. I saw this in June, 1876, at Guy’s Hospital, in the case of a man, set. 47, who was crushed between a barge and the side of a vessel, the prow of the barge striking his neck. The accident was followed by dyspnoea and some emphysema of the neck, but the symptoms were not urgent so long as the erect position was maintained, but the recumbent was impossible. The man lived fifty hours and died quietly. After death, the trachea was found to be completely severed below the thyroid body; the two ends being separated for an inch and a half, while the lower end was below the innominate vein. There was no external bruise to denote the severity of the injury. Wounds of the Throat. These are generally made by the hand of the suicide, and conse- quently have a double interest; the dangers of the local injury being complicated with the peculiar mental condition of the sufferer. It is essential, therefore, for the surgeon to dwell seriously beforehand upon VOL. II. 2 Fracture of larynx. Subcutane- ous division of trachea. Wounds of the throat.