DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. 336 Pig. 33. aim of the surgeon is to raise the scapula with the arm and depress the clavicle, which is best done by drawing the elbow well back- wards, and applying a pad over the clavicle; the pad and elbow being fixed in position by means of a belt or bandage passed over the clavicle and round the elbow. The belt presses the clavicle downwards, aud raises the shoulder and arm up- wards. The parts fall into position at times when the patient assumes the hori- zontal posture, and when this is the case, and the position can be maintained for two or three weeks, it is well to adopt it. At others a pad fixed over the clavicle by means of strapping, or a bandage passed between the axilla will suffice; but the surgeon recognising the special wants of the case, must adapt his means to meet them in the best possible way. Good movements of the arm are, as a rule, acquired in time after either of these accidents. Dislocation of tlie scapula dowmvards. Mr. Poland’s case. Dislocations of the Humerus Dislocation of form at least half of all dislocations, and a sufficient explanation of this the humerus. facfc ;s q,e found in the globular form of the head of the humerus, the shallowness of the glenoid cavity, the free movement of the articu- lation, and its liability to direct and indirect injury. Statistics. In 40 out of 60 consecutive cases, or in two-thirds of them, I found a direct blow upon the shoulder was the cause of the accident, while in the exceptional cases, a fall upon the extended arm or elbow, or a for- cible dragging backwards of the arm, was the assigned cause. The accident is rare in childhood, although I have seen an instance of it at the age of 13; while Flower and Hulke have recorded a case in an infant 14 days old. Two thirds of the cases are found in men between 50 and 70 years of age, it being comparatively rare in women and in young adult life. I have, however, treated one in a man aged 75. Analysis of 60 consecutive cases. Out of 60 cases, 31 were subglenoid, or downwards; 25 subcoracoid, or forwards; and 4 subspinous, or backwards. 49 were in males, aud 11 in females. 4 were in subjects under 20 years of age. 17 „ „ between 21 „ and 50. 38 ,, ,, „ 51 „ 70. 1 aged 75. The three The head of the humerus may be dislocated—1. Dowmvards—sub- varieties. glenoid. 2. Forwards — subcoracoid. 3. Backwards — subspinous. The subclavicular dislocation is very rare. When the coracoid process has been broken off, the head of the humerus may be displaced over the root of the former; two or three such cases being on record.