FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 428 Operative interference in fracture. Compound fractures of patella. Statistics of. to flex the limb under three months is hazardous, for the united liga- ment is sure to be stretched and elongated, and the limb weakened. A good leather knee-cap should permanently be worn after this accident. With the confidence rightly or wrongly engendered by what is known as the antiseptic system, surgeons have been led to cut down upon a fractured patella and to unite the fractured fragments of bone by sutures; and, although in the case or cases in which this practice has been employed, it is a pleasure to record that no bad results followed, yet the practice cannot be recommended but rather condemned. In examples of neglected cases of fracture where a great separation of the fragments exists and the knee is consequently so weak as to be useless, such an operation may be justifiable, but, under other circum- stances, I cannot, as a teacher, regard it otherwise than as a rash and hazardous proceeding. Compound fractures of the patella. These are grave accidents, one fourth of the cases dying. Poland, in an able paper read before the Med. and Chir. Society, 1870, gave au analysis of 85 such cases, and clearly proved that in all cases we should attempt to save the limb, and adopt the ordinary treatment as for simple fractures of the patella. To this end the wound should be well washed with iodine water or carbolic acid lotion, and accurately closed by sutures, and inflammation subdued by the constant application of ice. If suppuration sets in, free incisions should be made into the joint, and amputation resorted to only, when the powers of the patient fail to repair the injured joint. Detached fragments of bone should, however, be removed at once. Out of the 85 cases collected by Poland, there were 20 deaths and 65 recoveries; in 31 of these there was more or less complete anchylosis of the joint; 20 recovered with movement, 4 were resected and 5 am- putated. The joint suppurated in 43 out of the 65 cases of recovery, and in all the fatal cases. Fractures of the Leg. Fractures of leg. Statistics. Both bones generally broken. Fracture of tibia. These are about ttvice as frequent as those of the thigh. At Guy’s, 1090 cases were admitted in six years against 541 of the thigh, and of these 202, or one fifth, were compound. Of the simple cases, not 1 per cent, died from all causes; and of the compound, 27 per cent, succumbed. Both bones, as a rule, are fractured; the fibula alone being broken in about one case in six, and the tibia in about one in seven. Lonsdale’s statistics indicate these points. These fractures are more commonly met with in adult than in child life. In fractures of both bones, those of the upper half are usually the result of direct violence, fractures of the lower half of indirect, such as the twisting of the foot or leg from a fall or jump. In fractures of the tibia alone, the line of fracture is frequently transverse, and from this cause there is sometimes difficulty in making the diagnosis; the nearer the fracture to the knee the more transverse being the line. These fractures arise chiefly from direct violence. They may so unite as to leave no external trace of injury; indeed, they .may be attended with so little displacement that the line of the bone is never