548 ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. to admit of easy ingress. When these catch the bullet they rarely let it slip. The extraction of bullets, however, requires skill and patience; much injury may be inflicted on surrounding parts by the incautious use of the bullet forceps.” Enlargement When, from the smallness of the wound of entrance, force is re- o woun . quired, it is better to enlarge than to stretch the wound. When the foreign body rests beneath the skin, an opening through it may be made. When in When balls lodge in bone, they should be removed as from soft parts; )0ue- when they can be raised from their bed by an elevator, such an instru- ment should be employed. When forceps are wanted for extraction Luer’s “ sharp-pointed bullet forceps, which bite into and secure a most firm grasp of the object, will best accomplish the extraction.” To aid extraction the gouging away of some part of the bone may be necessary. Wounds into ■ As a rule, however, with rifle balls, the bone is splintered; and, under these circumstances, when the epiphysis of the bone is involved, exci- sion of the joint is called for when the joints of the upper extremity or the head of the femur is involved, and amputation when the knee and ankle are injured. After the removal of all foreign bodies from the wound, and when the parts have been cleansed, they should be carefully adjusted, placed at rest in an easy position, and protected by wet or dry lint; union by adhesion is out of all question, and that by granulation alone can take place. To hermetically seal a wound is not a practice to be generally recommended. Some gentle support by means of a bandage not only gives comfort, but is beneficial. When suppuration has taken place, the greatest care is needed to prevent burrowing. As soon as abscesses form they should be lanced, and that freely. When the wounds of entrance and exit are opened, the intervening sinus may be syringed with advantage, some medicated lotion such as iodine water, Condy’s solution, or carbolic acid, one part to a hundred, being used. Under all circumstances, thorough cleanliness should be observed, good food with tonics and sedatives given; fresh air being allowed to circulate freely around the beds. Stimulants should be administered with great caution, enough only being allowed to assist the digestion of solid food. Gunshot wounds of soft parts usually suppurate about the third or fourth day, sloughs mostly separate about the tenth or fourteenth; and recovery takes place in five or six weeks, the wound of exit, as a rule, closing before that of entrance. Gunshot Wounds of the Head. A gunshot wound' of the head received from a rifle ball at full speed produces a diffused injury to the skull and its contents; when caused by a spent ball or by a fragment of shell, the injury may be localised. In the former cases the external evidence of injury bears no com- parison with the real mischief the patient has sustained. In the latter the external evidence may be greater than the internal. Thus, the perience, says Professor Longmore, of the military surgeon, leads Gunshot wounds of the head.