ENCYSTED HYDROCELE. 191 usually connected with the epididymis which normally lies at the posterier part of the gland. _ The nature of the cystic contents differs also in many points from Nature of the fluid of a vaginal hydrocele, and is very characteristic. In the cystic vaginal hydrocele the fluid has been described as being generally clear, like the serum of the blood, more or less albuminous, of a straw colour, Vaginal and, at times, spontaneously coagulable, blood and cliolesterin being 1'ydrocele. also occasional elements. In the fluid of an encysted hydrocele, none Encysted of these elements are generally present; but, as a rule, is a limpid, hydrocele, slightly saline liquid, more or less watery or opalescent, as if mixed with milk, altvays containing some granules in suspension and fre- quently spermatozoa. Cystic hydrocele differs from the vaginal in the slowness of its growth, its globular outline, the anterior position of the testicle, aud the nature of its cystic contents. The origin of the spermatozoa in these cysts is a point of pecu- Origin of liar interest, and has been a disputed point with pathologists for spermatozoa, many years. Mr. Curling’s investigations on this subject have proved, that in some instances, their presence is certainly due to the rupture of one of the spermatic tubes w'hich pass over and are in close connection with the walls of the cyst—this rupture taking place generally from an injury, and being indicated by some rapid increase in the size of the cyst. Mr. Curling has shown that this history was given in several of the cases in which spermatozoa wrere found, and in some he was even able to demonstrate a distinct communication between the cyst and the spermatic tube. The following case tends bo support his views. Robert P—, set. 60, came under my care, at Illustrative Guy’s Hospital, on December 28tli, 1863, with an encysted hydrocele case- l of the left testicle of twenty years’ growth. The increase had been very flow until the last month, when the tumour had doubled its normal i size, this rapid growth having followed an injury produced by a fall. When first under my observation, the scrotum contained an irregular :ystic tumour on its left side, evidently made up of several cysts, of vhich three of large size could readily be distinguished, two being very ;ense, while the third was baggy. The testis was found on the inner tide of the tumour. Tapping was at once resorted to, and the largest ;yst emptied, many ounces of a milky fluid being drawn off. The econd tense cyst was then tapped through the same opening, with a limilar result, and the fluid collected in a distinct glass. The third cyst vas also tapped, but in this the fluid was quite watery. The first two lontained abundance of spermatozoa, while the third did not contain my. A good recovery took place. The treatment of encysted hydrocele.—However interesting the two Treatment of ■ orms of hydrocele which we have just been considering may he, both encysted ■ n their pathology and in their points of difference, the treatment in hy^rocelt:- he two cases is practically alike. When anything is required to be done, * imple tapping may suffice, and, as a primary measure, it should alw'ays ■) >e preferred; but, should the radical cure be required, the injection of xline may be carried out. The slow growth of these cysts, however, nd the equally slow re-collection of their contents, after tapping, are oints which indicate the propriety of adopting the palliative treatment !■ a the majority of cases. On the spontaneous disappearance of a vaginal hydrocele, with a meeti ase.—It is well known that in children, hydroceles, as a rule, disanoear vaSinal hydrocele.