101, LITHOTBITY. Preference given to the English method. Main points to he observed. When stone seized its size to be gauged. ltules as regards the number of ctushings. Care in removal of lithotrite. cavity. First, let the blades be inclined away from the side on which the stone is felt, then push on the female portion of the instrument only, by itself, as far as it will go, maintaining the male blade at the neck of the bladder; it is now only necessary to incline towards the stone, and it will be seized almost certainly at once. But if the operator com- mences by pushing on the whole instrument, and then withdraws the male blade, according to tbe ordinary custom, the blade is infallibly drawn against the large stone, which it therefore fails to catch, and presses it back against the neck of the bladder producing pain, irrita- tion, and perhaps bleeding; this is a practical rule of importance.” Such, then, in the main, is the method of Civiale for finding the stone. It is, doubtless, an admirable one, and, in skilled hands, is at least equal to the English method. For my own part, I have a preference for the English plan, having been originally taught it by Mr. Aston Key. and practised it since with good success. I have, how- ever, followed Civiale’s method when the prostate was large, and the stone failed to fall readily into the open blades of the instrument, also in crushing fragments. In fact, the practical surgeon must understand both methods, and employ one or other according to the necessities of the case in hand. Where gentleness is carried out and the bladder is not pressed upon or irritated by the instrument, either method is good; without gentleness and discrimination both are equally inju- rious. In the English plan, the main point to observe, is to maintain the female blade as quiet as possible, and sufficiently depressed to allow of the male blade being drawn forward without affecting the neck of the bladder. With this caution a large stone may be crushed with but little pain or vesical irritation; without it, the first attempt to open the lithotrite will be resisted by the bladder, and the intention of the operator frustrated. The stone having been seized—its size gauged by tbe markings on the handle of the instrument—it is to be crushed, and when the irrita- tion caused by the operation is slight, this may be repeated three, four, or more times; under other circumstances, one or two crushings are sufficient. Where the bladder is irritable, the stone of good size, and it is probable that several operations will be required, it is possibly a wise plan to do but little at the first sitting; looking upon it as a ten- tative step, and, when no bad result follows, the second operation may be more prolonged and effectual. When the stone is small, one sitting will often suffice to crush it up. I have, however, on several occasions, in healthy subjects with sound bladders, been tempted to crush into fragments at one sitting, stones upwards of an inch in diameter, and have had no reason to regret it. Indeed, on this point no general law can be laid down. What may be wise in one case would be indiscrete in another, and what may safely be undertaken under certain circumstances would be hazardous under others. Iu a middle-aged adult, with a healthy bladder and prostate, a large stone may often be rapidly crushed. In an old man with an enlarged prostate, the sittings ought always to be short. When the bladder is irritable, little should be done at one sitting. When the reverse, more may be undertaken with confidence. On removing the lithotrite, the surgeon should observe that the male blade is screwed well home.