114 STRICTURE OP THE URETHRA. Division of stricture. Extravasa- tion of urine. Symptoms. Local conditions. I am well aware some are satisfied to open the abscess in the peri- useuin, and leave the stricture to be subsequently treated by dilatation or other means; yet such a measure is but temporising, and the soundest and most correct practice is to open the abscess, and at the same time to divide the stricture. This is readily done by passing a grooved staff through the urethra into the abscess, if not into the bladder, and freely dividing all the tissues by a scalpel introduced through the perinseum. If the orifice of the vesical end of the urethra can be detected with a probe, a large catheter should be passed and left in, hut this point is not of essential importance, as by the operation the surgeon is certain that the stricture has been divided, all pus freely evacuated, the possibility of further extravasation taking place prevented, and a free outlet for the urine at the same time been obtained. By adopting this practice much time is saved, the stricture being treated and probably cured by the same means that are absolutely essential for the treatment of the complication. When, however, perineal abscesses occur unconnected with stricture, they should be opened early to prevent their breaking into the urethra and degenerating into urinary fistula. Syme’s operation under these circumstances is not required. The complication of extravasation of urine, however, does not always appear in the form we have been just describing as a local and con- fined extravasation or a urinary abscess, since it not rarely shows itself as an extravasation of a severer nature; as one more sudden and marked in its symptoms and more fatal in its effects, requiring also at the hands of the surgeon active and energetic treatment. It occurs as the result of a sudden rupture of the urethra, or of the walls of an abscess communicating with it, the rupture taking place sud- denly during some effort of a patient, the subject of a narrow and contracted stricture to relieve his distended and overcharged bladder. The symptoms by which the complication is manifested are very marked. The patient will probably relate that during some sudden expulsive effort to pass his urine, he felt something give way, and that this sensation was attended with relief to the symptoms caused by the retention of urine. He will soon discover, however, that the relief which he experienced was not the result of a flow of urine from the natural passage; and, from the rapid enlargement of the perinseum, scrotum, and penis, will he convinced that something wrong has taken place. This swelling will be attended by a burning pain in the parts thus gradually enlarging, and increased at each effort made to relieve the distended bladder—the absence of pain on the first onset of the extra- vasation may delude the patient into a false idea of relief and safety. The surgeon, if now called to see the patient, will find him labouring under retention of urine, with the perinseum, penis, and scrotum more or less swollen and cedematous from urinary infiltration; the extravasated fluid, perhaps, having made or making its way upwards over the abdominal parietes even to the thorax. If the symptoms have existed long, a peculiar inflammation and gangrene of the integuments will make its appearance, and all the constitutional symptoms described as typhoid will certainly be present. Under these circumstances the surgeon, in his treatment, has three Treatment.