CONGENITAL DISPLACEMENT OR DISLOCATION. 371 a breech birth took place, I heard in the majority that a natural birth occurred. The symptoms of the displacement are very marked, and in its Symptoms, double form are well shown in the foregoing drawings taken from life (Figs. 471, 471a), the most conspicuous being lordosis, a peculiar breadth of hips, rounding of the buttock, rotation of the whole ex- tremity and foot inwards, and slight flexion of the thigh—in fact, the symptoms of dorsal dislocation of the hips. The lordosis is produced in these cases in the same way as it is in the Lordosis; accidental dorsal dislocation, or the acquired displacement of the head how of the femur in hip disease, and can be effaced by elevation of the produced, limb, with the patient in the horizontal position as in those cases (Figs. 539, 541). The movements of the joint are good, at times perfect, and give rise to no pain. The head of the femur also rotates smoothly on the ilium. When one joint only is affected (Fig. 471b), there will be shortening of the limb for about an inch, and on comparing the affected with the sound side it will be at once seen that this shortening is in the thigh, and that the trochanter is drawn up to the level of the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The walk of a patient with a double displacement is very curious; it is a kind of “ roll,” not unlike that of a woman going up stairs who has some loosen- ing of her sacro-iliac joints or very broad hips. While a patient with a single affected joint limps and has an awkward gait, which has often led parents and others to suspect hip or spinal disease, more particularly when by over use of the malformed joint, pains are excited. Occasionally the muscles of the affected limb or limbs are weak, but this is met with in only exceptional cases. Treatment.—Nothing can be recommended with the view of cure, for art cannot supply a natural deficiency or make up for a defect of structure in the bones of the joint. Still, surgery can do much heaTofTeft'femur. towards the prevention of additional trouble by Posterior view, exercising the muscles of the limb and body without fatiguing them; forbidding excessive standing or walking during the years of growth, and attending to the general health. Mechanical appliances are to be condemned as useless, if not worse. They have been employed on a wrong principle, or rather on a want of due appreciation of the conditions of parts, and therefore with only a vague hope that they may do good. These observations apply as much to the use of an extension apparatus as to operative inter- ference, although with more force to the latter. Fig. 471b. When one joiut is affected. Peculiar walk. Treatment.