syme’s operation. 606 originate carious disease are completely got rid of; so that this operation is calculated to supersede entirely that of Chopart, besides taking the place of amputation of the leg in the majority of cases formerly sup- posed to demand it” (‘ Holmes’s Syst.,’ vol. v, ed.2). This view of the operation which was also held by its originator, ema- nating from one who was so closely connected with Syme professionally and otherwise, is doubtless far too sanguine. That the operation is good no surgeon will deny when amputation of the whole foot is called for ; but to say that it will supersede entirely Chopart’s operation is to say what I trust never will be true, for when the bones of the ankle-joint and the joint itself are sound, no surgeon ought to take away the whole foot if any minor measure will suffice. Where Chopart’s amputation is applicable, Syme’s ought not to be entertained. As an amputation of the foot, where the whole foot must be sacri- ficed, it is admirable; but, under no other circumstances can it be recommended; that it is superior to amputation of the leg most surgeons will admit, upon the same principle that Chopart’s is superior to it, on the principle of the least possible sacrifice of parts. It is, however, a successful operation, Hancock reporting (‘ Lancet,’ 1866) that out of 219 cases, only 17 died, or per cent.: 181 were operations for disease, and of these 11 died, or 65 per cent. : 32 for accidents, of which six died, or 13 per cent. The experience of the American war speaks also in its favour, for out of 67 cases only 9 died, or 13J per cent. The operation is performed as follows. I give it in' Syme’s own words :—“ The foot being held at a right angle to the leg, the point of a common straight bistoury should be introduced immediately below the fibula, at the centre of its malleolar projection, and then carried across the integuments of the sole in a straight line to the same level on the opposite side. The operator having next placed the fingers of his left hand upon the heel, and inserted the point of the thumb into the incision, pushes in the knife with its blade parallel to the bone, and cuts close to the osseous surface, at the same time press- ing the flap backwards until the tuberosity is fairly turned, when, joining the two extremities of the first incision by a transverse one across the instep, he opens the joint, and carrying his knife downwards on each side of the astragalus, divides the lateral ligaments so as to complete the disarticulation. Lastly, the knife is drawn round the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to expose them sufficiently for being grasped in the hand and removed by the saw. After the vessels have been tied (twisted), and before the edges of the wound are stitched together an opening should be made through the posterior part of the flap where it is thinnest, to afford a de- pendent drain for the matter, as there must always be too much blood retained in the cavity to permit of union by the first intention. The dressings should be of the lightest description. That the flap may and probably will still occasionally slough is unhappily too true; but this result is always owing to an error in the mode of performance; for as the integument, being detached from its sub- jacent connections, can derive nourishment only from the anasto- mosing of vessels, it is evident that, if scored crossways, instead of being separated by cutting parallel to the surface, the flap must lose its vitality.”