441 PATHOLOGY OP JOINT DISEASES. membrane may show itself in two distinct ways, firstly, in change of function, and secondly, in change of structure. The first change may take place without the second, but the change of structure necessarily includes an alteration in the function. The best ex- amples of the first class of cases in which a change of function is the most prominent point, are seen in everyday practice in cases of so-called chronic or sub-acute synovitis, where excess of secretion in a joint is the main symptom, and in which this secretion may be re- absorbed and leave no trace of disease behind; whilst the best illustra- tions of the second class, in which change of structure is the main point of clinical as well as of pathological importance, are seen in the pulpy disease of the synovial membrane. Between the two great classes of cases, however, there are doubtless many links, for example, in acute synovitis we have change of structure even to more or less complete disorganization, and in chronic synovitis frequently repeated, we have change of structure such as gradually passes into the pulpy synovial disease. It would thus appear that in acute inflammation of the synovial membrane we have pathologically a series of changes that differ somewhat from those seen in chronic inflammation, and that while the acute form, it is true, passes into the chronic by im- perceptible gradations, the two classes of cases are, nevertheless, very distinct. Acute inflammation of a synovial membrane in its early stage is pathologically represented by what my notes of cases clearly illustrate—a more or less minute injection of the capillary vessels, passing on to a velvety appearance of the synovial surface, a flocculent surface, or one covered with fine fringes of lymph, while in the more acute cases the synovial membrane may have disappeared by ulceration or sloughing, or have so softened down as to be destroyed on the slightest touch. In the former class of cases there will be clinically increase of secretion in the joint, severe local pain and heat with surgical fever; while in the latter, there will be acute suppuration, and the synovial membrane may show any one of the conditions already indicated; or they may have disappeared, pus and broken-up membrane p alone remaining to indicate the local severity of the action as well as the destructive nature of the affection. In intermediate or less acute cases, other changes may be seen, but they are not less marked. In one, the notes of which are before me, there was visible to the eye a local patch of capillary injection, and beneath it could be made out a superficial granular change of structure in the cartilage. In another, an effusion of a firm fibrinous layer of lymph over the surface of the synovial membrane and articular cartilage showed itself, and this membrane could be raised from its bed and peeled off, not only off the synovial capsule, but also off the articular cartilage, and beneath this membrane fine radiating capillary vessels passing from the margin of the articular cartilage towards the centre were clearly visible. In this case, moreover, after a section was made through the spot of injected membrane and cartilage down to the bone, the swollen layer of membrane passing over the cartilage was clearly visible, as well as the granular degeneration of the cartilage beneath ; and this membrane could be separated from its cartilaginous con- nection by means of needles. It occurred in a child, but it seems to me to be sufficient to prove by means of pathology what ana- tomy has hitherto failed to settle, viz., that a layer of membrane Change of function. Change of structure. Changes in acute inflam mation of synovial membrane. Synovial membrane over cartilage involved.