64 DISEASES OF THE BLADDEK. On ulceration of the bladder. Treatment. On vescico- imestinal fistula. Symptoms. Diagnosis. Treatment. Ulceration of the Bladder, This is rarely the result of ordinary cystitis, though it may occur in the paralysed organ, and is met with after death where cathe- terism has been frequently employed, and in cases of stone. It is likewise found in tuberculous subjects from the breaking down of tuberculous material, as well as in cancer. The disease is indicated by the same symptoms as exist in inflamed bladder, with more local distress, more blood in the urine, and greater pain after micturition. There is usually also much constitutional depression and want of power. I have seen two cases in which extravasation of urine above the pubes resulted from this disease, one of which recovered and the other died. The indications for treatment are similar to those for cystitis, opium being freely used as a suppository or an enema. All mechanical inter- ference should be avoided unless absolutely called for, and then it should be of the gentlest kind. It is a question, however, whether, in the severer forms, an incision into the bladder, as for lithotomy, would not be a sound practice, the urine then would flow away as secreted, and a chance given to the bladder to recover itself; at any rate, the operation would give relief. I have done this on several occa- sions with success. Vesico-intestinal Fistula. This is sometimes met with, and it is probable in the majority of cases that the ulcerating process commences in the bowel and in- volves the bladder in a secondary way. It usually first manifests its presence by the passage of wind with the water, some little irritability of bladder having previously existed; faeces, liquid or solid, soon follow, giving rise to fetid urine and severe bladder symptoms, the pain of foreign material in the bladder being very marked when the large intestine or rectum is involved; the liquid motion of the small intestine does not appear to give rise to the same local distress as the solid. There is no difficulty in recognising this mixture of urine and intestinal contents. When flatus passes per urethram the condition may be suspected; when the urine has a faecal odour and colour the condition gives rise to something more than a suspicion; and when solid faeces are visible the diagnosis is certain. In doubtful cases- the microscopical examination of the sediment of the urine will readily reveal its nature. At times the faeces may obstruct the urethra and cause retention. In looking into the history of these cases there will usually be found some bowel symptoms, some diarrhoea or dysenteric affection, some symptoms of stricture or cancer of the bowel; and, although this affec- tion may be found associated with cancerous disease, it seems more frequently to be the result of the simple perforating ulcer of the bowel. Treatment.—When a faecal fistula bas once formed between the bowel and bladder, the hopes of an unaided natural cure are very feeble, and, when solid motions mix with the urine, but little can be done to palliate the suffering that is produced. For a time the bladder may be emptied of its contents, and, by being washed out,, freed of its local irritant; but the truce can be only for a limited period, another action of the bowel being to a certainty followed by a fresh entry of fmculent material into the bladder with all its evil effects.