384 ON FRACTURES. For hip-joint. Hyde’s felt splint. Paraffine. Silicate of potash. Contraction on drying. lacing up in front. To apply the splint to the hip-joint, it is necessary that the first layer of flannel should surround the pelvis as high as the crests of the ilium, and also the affected thigh. It should then be stitched along the outer side in one continuous seam and the superfluous edges allowed to remain in apposition. The gum-and-chalk paste must then he applied, some difficulty being probably experienced in applying it over the sacrum, but the patient must he rolled first to one side and then to the other. While this is being done the second layer of flannel should be lying underneath, so as to protect the bed, which may then he adapted and fastened closely by a few stitches, along the line of the previous sutures. When the whole is dry, it may or may not be found necessary to rip it up and insert eyelet-holes. If the splint fit closely without causing any undue pressure, the edges may be cut off close, and the whole allowed to remain as it is, hut for the sake of cleanliness, especially in children, it is generally better to cut up the stitches along the outer side, hind the edges with leather and lace it up, so as to allow the splint to be removed as often as requisite. When extra stiffness is required in any of these splints, the inner surface of the second layer of flannel may he covered with the chalk paste before it is applied, some strips of tin, or a piece of gutta-percha which has been moulded to the part should be introduced between the two layers of flannel.1 In cases of compound fracture, an opening suitable to the wound may easily be made. This splint is as good for joint cases as for those of fracture, indeed it is by far the best immoveable apparatus we possess. Mr. Hyde, of Mortimer Street, has introduced a “ leather-felt splint ” of great value, which is readily applied, is light and strong, and rarely requires to be used with starch. Cooking’s poroplastic splint answers the same purpose, the splint becoming soft on immersion in hot air or water, and hard again within a few minutes of its removal. If, when moulded, it fails to fit exactly, it can be softened locally by the appli- cation of a hot-water sponge. Mr. L. Tait (‘ Med. Times,’ 1865) has suggested the use of paraffine for the same purpose, the melted paraffin being kept liquid by the immersion of the bowl containing it in hot water, the bandage as it is being applied, being made to pass through the liquid paraffin melt- ing at 105° to 120° F. Two or more coats of paraffin may he painted over the whole. The liquid glass, silicate of potash, may also be used, the solution being painted over the bandage with a brush. I have used it and like it, hut not so much as the splint I have described. By way of caution it should he stated that all starch, chalk, and plaster-of-Paris splints contract on drying, and from such contractions I have known harm, and even gangrene to follow. To guard against this contingency when bandages are used, cotton-wool should be applied freely around the limb ; although in the Bavarian splint this precau- tion is not called for. On this account, the practice of using these splints, as a primary application in the treatment of fractures is dangerous; for when swelling to any extent takes place, the pressure may be most harmful. 1 I am indebted to a valued pupil, Mr. W. H. Harsant, for the above description of the splint.