DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. 367 Rep./ for 1855, with a drawing; but in my work on the ‘ Joints/ 1859, 1 published (Case 85) an example of dislocation of the foot outwards, with a description of the dissected extremity, which had occurred in the practice of Mr. Aston Key, in 1845. The foot was amputated, reduction being impossible. The ankle-joint was perfect. The os calcis with the foot was displaced outwards. The tendon of the tibialis posticus was found in front of the tibia holding down the astragalus. The posterior tibial nerve was violently stretched over the astragalus. The limb was removed for tetanus, the symptoms immediately disappearing after the amputation. A large number of Dislocation these cases are compound; and in some they are complicated , with fracture of the fibula. Broca (‘ Mem. de la Societe de Chirurg./ tome iii), out of 13 examples of dislocation outwards, gives 9 as compound. This dislocation may he diagnosed from displacement at the ankle- joint and dislocation of the astragalus itself by the fact, that extension and flexion are present; from fractures about the ankle, by the absence of crepitus, together with the positive signs of the injuries them- selves. Treatment.—Reduction should only be attempted with the patient Treatment of anaBstheticised, and, under such an influence, by extension and manipu- dislocation, lation success may he looked for. When difficulties are experienced Turner and Pollock’s suggestion of dividing the tendo Acliillis, and even the posterior tibial tendon, or any other tendon, when it is clearly interfering with the replacement of the bones, should he followed. When these means fail and the stretched skin gives way, the case must be treated as one of a compound nature, and the astragalus excised, the foot being subsequently well confined in splints and ice applied. Occasionally amputation may be demanded, or Syme or Pirogoff’s more partial operation. Dislocations of the astragalus alone are said to be more common than Dislocation the former accidents. 1 have seen several such, although afterof tlie reading Mac Cormac’s essay I am disposed to think I have mistaken „)'o™esalus some cases of subastragaloid dislocation for dislocation of the astra- galus. Pollock believes the pure dislocation of the astragalus to be very rare. The hone may be shot out of its socket forwards, backwards and Varieties, even laterally, and, in rarer examples, rotated on its axis. In the dislocation forwards, the head of the bone projects from Dislocation between the malleoli; in some being shot inwards so as to form forwards, a marked eminence beneath the internal malleolus, in others outwards. In such an accident, the heel remains in its normal position, and all movement of the ankle-joint is lost. The dislocation backwards, of which Phillips (‘Med. Gaz./ 1834) Dislocation and Turner have cited examples, is indicated by the remarkable pro- backwards, jectiou which suddenly appears above the heel, pressing out the tendo Acliillis, by the shortening of the foot, and the prominence of the tibia in front. Dislocation of the astragalus laterally to be complete must he com- Lateral pound (Fig. 470), and when incomplete at first, will probably become dislocation of complete at a later period through slougliiug of the soft parts. It is astraBalus- i generally, but not always, complicated with fracture of one or other of the malleoli. Boyer has recorded a case of dislocation of the astragalus