HEKNIA TESTIS. 209 integuments. It must not be supposed, however, that this hernia testis is the necessary consequence of suppuration or of disorganization of any portion of the gland, for such is not the case. In the majority of instances it does not ensue, though in some it is certainly found, and in such requires consideration. The diagnosis is not difficult, and the disease having been once Diagnosis, seen subsequently can be readily made out. It is a peculiar fuu- gating-looking growth with everted edges and a sinus in its centre generally secreting pus. It is of variable extent, and presents a more or less irregular surface and a pedunculated base, the pedicle passing through an opening in the scrotum to the remains of the testicle. The margin of the opening in the scrotum is generally free, although in some cases adherent to the growth. It may be slightly indurated from inflammatory thickening, but will never present the same aspect as a cancerous growth, for which, however, this affec- tion may be mistaken, the term “fungous testis ” having doubtless been the means of encouraging the great error of regarding this simple disease as malignant. The natural sensation of the gland remains, however, in these cases, and will be readily excited by manipulation, whereas in cancerous disease, no such natural sensation exists, and, in doubtful cases this point is one of primary importance. Treatment of hernia testis.—It may be safely stated that the ma- Treatment of jority of cases of hernia testis can be successfully treated by other less lierili“ testis, severe measures than castration, although this operation has been very generally performed for this affection. In exceptional intances it may be demanded, and I have the records of many in which it has been successfully performed. The surgeon’s object, it may be briefly stated is, to restore the extruded testicle to its natural place, which may frequently be done by simple pressure applied by fixing a good firm [pad over the surface of the growth and drawing the margin of Pressure, the ulcerated scrotum well forward, fixing the whole in position by strapping. In other cases, where the granulations are very exuberant, caustics may be used to hasten their destruction; and among the best is the red oxide of mercury, pressure being well maintained during U«1 oxide of its use. All minor cases, and many of the severe, may' certainly be mercury cured by these means, if steadily pursued and well applied. In the c,lustic8- more obstinate and severe examples other measures must be adopted. The excision of the surface of the growth was formerly employed, and Excision is occasionally in the present day, but the practice at best, is a very deprecated, doubtful one, for in the majority of cases to which it is applicable it would be tantamount to castration, as the fungating mass is, as a rule, composed of the everted tubules of the testis, covered with granula- tions, and consequently, by this measure, the tubules would be cut off and the gland destroyed. Mr. Syme described in the * London and Edinburgh Monthly Syme’s Journal’ for January, 1845, a plan of treatment which in these °Peration- cases is very serviceable, although it is only in quite exceptional examples that it can be called for. The operation consists in the elevation of the margin of the scrotum from the protruding mass, the reduction of the hernia testis within the scrotum, and the re- tention of the part in its natural position by a stitching together of the margins of the wound, careful bandaging and strapping being also required in the treatment of these cases. The granulating organ VOL. ii. 14