ON FRACTURES. 376 Muscular action the cause of deformity. Sub- periosteal fracture. Crepitus. When uot to he looked for. Synovial crepitus. Caution. These points will be greatly determined by the character of the fracture, the bone that is involved, and the amount of muscular action that influences the fracture. In parallel and conjoined bones of which only one is broken, the de- formity that exists is likely to be less marked than where a single bone is broken; as, under these circumstances, the non-fractured bone tends to neutralise the action of the muscles through which deformity or contraction usually takes place, for muscular action is undoubtedly the main cause of deformity, tonic action of the muscles existing under all circumstances, and spasmodic action when they are irritated by frag- ments and attempts at reduction. Muscular spasm being the main cause of deformity and shorten- ing of the limb after fracture, it becomes an important point to recollect in its treatment that the peculiar deformity associated with any special form of fracture can be obviated by neutralising the action of the muscles that produce it. Thus, in fractures of the humerus above the insertion of the deltoid, the action of the latter muscle will be to draw the lower fragment up and outwards, while the pectoral muscle has a direct influence in drawing in the upper fragment. In fractures of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid, the tendency of this muscle will be to draw the upper fragment outward, and the brachialis anticus has an equally powerful tendency to draw the lower half forward. In fractures of the thigh-bone below the minor tro- chanter, the psoas and iliacus muscles naturally draw the upper fragment forwards, and rotate it outward and, in fracture of the con- dyles, the gastrocnemii have a powerful tendency to draw the lower end backward. When a bone is fissured and not displaced, the periosteum not being divided, there will be little displacement, and in children this condition is often found. Crepitus, or the grating sensation caused by the rubbing of the ends of the broken bones together, is a most valuable sign of fracture, and when detected in making the examination of a limb supposed to be frac- tured, the diagnosis is made clear, but, when other symptoms of fracture sufficient for a diagnosis are present, it need not be looked for. In impacted fractures, as of the hip, it can only be felt on loosening the impacted fragments, and consequently by doing irremediable harm, this error is serious, and should be avoided. In incomplete fractures crepitus is also absent. In fact every fracture or suspected fracture should be manipulated with the utmost gentleness, in order that as little displacement and local injury may be inflicted as possible, for the bulk of fractures can be made out with certainty without crepitus. As a symptom, however, it is always of great value. The crepitus of effusion or of the thecae of tendons must not be mis- taken for that of a broken bone. It is a soft crepitus rather than a hard one, as in bone. Bursal crepitation is particularly liable to mislead. When some swelling follows immediately upon the accident, it means ruptured blood-vessels, arterial or venous. When it occurs within a few hours, it is due to inflammatory effusion. In all cases of supposed displacement, the normal condition of the limb must be inquired into, and the sound compared with the affected, for in more cases than one I have known a natural or old acquired