489 EXCISION OF ELBOW-JOINT. Fig. 563. Vertical incision for ex- cision of tlie elbow-joint. From Maunder. After- treatment. sections. Tu all cases tlie whole of the articular facets should be resected, and when the bone at the point of section is not quite healthy a second piece had better be removed. “If only the extreme ends of the bones be sawn off, anchylosis will most likely take place; while if the amount above prescribed, viz. the whole condyloid extremity of the humerus and all the sigmoid cavity of the ulna with the head of the radius, or even little more on both sides, be taken away, free motion may, under favourable circumstances, be expected” (Fig. 564). (‘Holmes’s System, vol. v.) I have at times regretted not having excised enough of bone, and particularly of the humerus; indeed, I strougly advise the surgeon in all cases to be free in his section of this bone, more particularly in excisions for anchylosis. When possible, it is well to preserve the inser- tions of the biceps and brachialis anticus ten- dons by pressing them back from the bones. To preserve the periosteum in the operation as advocated by Ollier and Laugenbeck, does not appear from published facts or scientific reason- ings to be a matter of importance. After the ope- ration, all hsemor- Fig. 564. rhage havingbeen arrested by tor- sion and the ap- plication of cold or very hot water, or, what is prefer- able, iodine water (5ij ad Oj), this mixture checking capillary bleeding, the edges of the wound should be brought together at its ends, a drainage tube introduced, and the arm fixed at an obtuse angle upon such a screw splint as that made for me and figured above, the splint allowing every movement (Fig. 564), moderate pressure being applied and maintained for a few hours by means of a bandage. Absolute rest should be maintained till the wound has fairly healed and the powers of the patient been restored, when passive move- ment should be commenced with pronation and supination of the hand, the object of this operation being not only to remove the disease but to obtain a movable joint. When anchylosis follows, the operation Conditions in a measure is unsuccessful, for it has failed in one of its greatest resulting advantages. In the most favorable cases, the amount of movement lrom. that is obtained is all that could be wished, indeed, it is little less than exclslon' that of the healthy joint; in some cases, however, the joint is too loose like a flail, in others it is stiff, whilst in another class flexion and ex- tension are good, but pronation and supination fail. In Mr. Syme’s case of a man who had acted as a railway guard up to the time of his death, nine years after the operation, when the joint was dissected, the ulna and humerus were united by ligamentous union, and the end of Ball &• socliaVJoinV Splint for excision of tlie elbow, the splint allowiug every movement.