68 ATONY OF THE BLADDER. Treatment. Tubercular disease of the Madder. Atony of the bladder. Treatment. Treatment.—Here, as in the villous growths, palliative treatment is alone applicable ; opium or other sedatives to relieve local pain and give rest being essential. These remedies are most valuable probably as injections into the rectum, or as suppositories. The general powers of the patient should be supported, and everything applied that can give comfort; but no surgical or medical treatment is of any real avail. Tubercular disease of the bladder. This is a rare although a real affection, and is confined to young middle age. It is generally associated probably with the same disease of the kidneys or prostate, and shows itself as a deposit of tuberculous matter in the mucous and sub-mucous tissue, which when it breaks down, is an ulcer. It is usually accompanied with symptoms of irritable bladder and painful micturition, the latter symptom being more common when ulceration has taken place. Rest in the horizontal posture is essential in this as in all bladder affections, anodynes, tonics, and nutritious food being of great value. My friend, Mr. Poland, told me, that in a case of tubercular disease of the bladder attended with ulceration (which was under Mr. Aston Key’s care when he was a dresser), where the suffering was severe, Mr. Key suggested the propriety of laying the bladder open, as in lithotomy, and thus allowing the urine to flow off as soon as it reached the bladder. The patient, however, was too far exhausted from advanced lung disease to allow of its performance. Mr. Key stated that, in another case where the disease had not made so much progress, he should not hesitate in performing the operation. The bladder in this • one was found almost stripped of its mucous membrane, and what remained was studded with tubercular deposits. Mr. Key called it phthisis of the bladder. Atony of the bladder is a want of muscular power in the bladder to expel its contents as a result of its over-distension from either compulsory retention, or organic obstruction, some cerebral disturbance or fever, &c. It has been often i falsely described as paralysis of the bladder, but, whereas in paralysis ■ the loss of power is due to a want of nerve supply, in atony it is the result of want of muscular power due to exhaustion or over-stretch- ing. It may be associated with retention or with incontinence, the latter condition showing itself when the bladder is over-charged, the dribbling of urine being a mere overflow. Treatment.—As the cause of atony of the bladder is muscular ex- haustion, so the treatment consists in giving the organ muscular repose, which can be done by catheterism. Where the atony is not very com- plete, the drawing off of the urine twice a day may suffice to allow the organ to recover its tone, and to act naturally. But when the atony is extreme, it may be necessary to introduce a catheter into the bladder and to fasten it there, the urine being allowed to run away as secreted through a tube fixed on the end of the catheter. By this means the most complete rest can be given to the organ. Where the bladder is sluggish in resuming its functions, tonics such as iron may be given, with the local injection into the bladder of some stimulant, as cold water, diluted nitric acid or tincture of iron in the proportion of four to ten drops to the ounce; but catheterism alone, as a rule, is enough, these cases generally recovering unless the cause has been acting for too long