210 CYSTIC DISEASE OP THE TESTICLE. becomes attached to the inner surface of the scrotum, and a healthy action is subsequently restored. It is almost needless to add, that a local and constitutional treatment for the original affection of the testis should at the same time be maintained. On cystic disease of testis. Curling’s views. disease. On Cystic Disease of the Testicle. There is no affection of the testicle on the nature of which there has been a greater difference of opinion than cystic disease, and although modern pathologists have devoted considerable attention to its investigation, the subject has not yet been brought out of its obscurity and made plain to the profession. Sir A. Cooper, one of its original enquirers, looked upon it as a distinct disease of the secreting tubuli of the organ, and upon his authority, this view was for a time generally received. More recently, Mr. Curling’s researches have tended to prove it to be an affection of the ducts of the testicle, and not of its secreting tubuli. “ Wliy they alone,” says Mr. Curling, “ are subject to the morbid change, I admit my inability to explain.” Whether this opinion be correct or not will be one of the subjects for present consideration; since I am disposed to think, that it is not quite consistent with observed facts, although there can be no doubt that the rete testis appears to be the seat of the disease in certain cases, while in exceptional examples, cystic disease is undoubtedly formed independent of this structure. It has been my privilege to examine many examples of this rare affection with some care, and I entirely concur in the main points of' Mr. Curling’s investigations although I am not so sure of the Nature of the special seat of the disease as he appears to' be. It is doubtless made up of cysts which are multilocular and of sizes varying from that of a mustard seed to a moderate-sized nut. (Fig. 381.) These cysts are filled with a thin, serous, blood-stained, or glairy fluid, and at times with more or less pedunculated Pig. 381. intra-cystic growths made up of a deli- cate cellular struc- ture, or of a distinct cells tisue. These cysts appear embed- ded in a fibrous stroma of different degrees of consis- tency and density— the fibrous elements in some being much more numerous than in others. Whilst in some again it will be of a more delicate nature, and more al- lied to the fibre structure found in the ordinary fibro- plastic growths of Cystic disease of the testicle. other parts. In cer-