48 TREATMENT OF APNCEA. Method applied to stillbirth. Advantages of the direct method. When respiration is re- established. Artificial Respiration. Position of Patient.—Rip or strip clothing from the waist and neck. Face upwards; shoulders slightly declining over. Hard roll of clothing placed beneath thorax; the head and neck bent back to the utmost, with the hands on the top of the head (one twist of handkerchief around the crossed wrists keeping them there) (Fig. 318a). The Operator pressing upwards and inwards towards the diaphragm, using his knees as a pivot, and throwing his weight slowly forwards two or three seconds, until his face almost touches that of the patient should end with a sharp push, which helps to jerk him back to the erect kneeling position. He should then rest three seconds, and repeat this bellows-blowing movement as before, continuing it at the rate of seven to ten times a minute, taking the utmost care on the occurrence of a natural gasp gently to aid and deepen it into a long breath until re- spiration becomes natural. When practicable, the tongue should be held firmly out of one corner of the mouth with the thumb and fore- finger armed with dry cotton rag. Avoid all impatient vertical pushes; the force upward and inward must be increased gradually from zero to the maximum the age, sex, &c., may indicate. Abandon no case as hopeless within an hour’s useless effort. In the application of this method to cases of stillbirth, the child lies along the left hand of the operator, the ball of whose thumb takes the place of the hard roll of clothing seen in Fig. 318a. Over this the shoulders decline, the head falling back with the arms, if convenient, on either side the face. The buttock and thighs are supported by the operator’s fingers. Thus the operator has the prominent little thorax completely within the grasp of his right hand with firm counter-pressure behind, enabling him to apply, locate, distribute, direct or alternate his pressure as he pleases. The advantages Dr. Howard claims for this method over other methods are—1st. It provides for ejection and drainage of fluids, &c., from the stomach and lungs, and in such a way that each motion for ejection induces an alternate inspiration. 2nd. It excludes the tongue from the pharynx without manipulation. 3rd. It secures eleva- tion of the epiglottis and a post-oral air-way from the glottis to the nares. 4tli. It includes a remedy against syncope and cerebral anaemia. 5th. It obtains a more general expansion of the thorax. 6tli. It effects a thoracic compression which is more complete, better distributed, directed and regulated. 7th. It is done by one person, and can be applied instantly on the spot wherever the patient is found. 8th. It is more easily understood by the illiterate, is less fatiguing to the operator, and is free from unnecessary motion or violence. When respiration is re-established maintain the temperature of the body by friction, warm blankets, and when possible by warm water (106° F.), or air bath, keeping the head where a circulation of pure air may be maintained. As soon as the patient can swallow give. warm milk, beef tea, tea or coflee, with a tablespoonful of some spirit, or these may be injected by the stomach-pump. When respiration is restored put the patient into a warm bed, with hot bottles to his feet, and encourage sleep, but let him be watched in case of secondary or relapsing apncea; at the slightest symptoms of which let friction and even artificial respiration be re-employed. Give volatile stimulants., such as the spiritus ammonia aromaticus.