319 ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. that the deformity dates from an early period of uterine existence.”— Little. Sayre’s law upon this point is very good:—“Place the part con- tracted,” he writes, “ as nearly as possible in its normal position by means of manual tension gradually applied, and then carefully retain it in that position; while the parts are thus placed upon the stretch, make additional point-pressure with the end of the finger or thumb upon the parts thus rendered tense, and, if such additional pressure produces reflex contractions, that tendon, fascia or muscle must be divided, and the point at which the reflex spasm is excited is the point where the operation should be performed. If, on the contrary, the additional point-pressure does not produce reflex contractions, the de- formity can be overcome by means of constant elastic tension, and the more you cut, the greater will be the amount of damage done.”— ‘Orthopaedic Surg.,’ 1876. In all cases treatment should be commenced as soon as possible, and Early the foot of the youngest infant may he dealt with advantageously by manual extension a few days after birth. Within a week, extension ‘ hy strapping may be carefully employed, the foot being looked to daily to see that no sloughing or cutting of the skin by the strapping takes place, for in infants the tendons yield far more readily than they do as months or years go on, and with care no harm can accrue from simple mechanical extension. Even splints, carefully applied, can be used. When tenotomy is clearly a necessity—that is, in grave deformities —there is no reason, in a healthy well-developed babe, why it should not he performed within a month after birth. I have divided the tendo Achillis for a talipes varus, with an excellent result at the end of the first week, and Mr. Stromeyer Little has operated successfully within twenty-four hours of the child’s birth. The operation.—In a large number of cases of congenital varus the Direction as division of the tendo Achillis is enough, the foot after division of the to selection tendon being generally capable of restoration to the required position of tenilons- by mechanical means, but in severe examples, the anterior or posterior tibials, singly or together may require to be cut. These three tendons may be divided at one operation in average cases, though in the severe, Little’s advice is good to deal with the tihial tendons first and overcome the inversion of the foot, and, at a later date, to divide the tendo Achillis. The value of this proceeding consists in the fixed os calcis offering a resisting point from which the surgeon is enabled to stretch out and unfold the contracted inverted sole. Division of the tendo Achillis.—The patient should he turned on Division of the abdomen, and the teudon made tense by means of an assistant, tendo The surgeon should then insert a sharp-pointed or round knife flatwise Achillis. from behind forwards by the side of the tendon as far as its anterior surface, when it should be turned laterally in front of the tendon and its cutting edge directed backwards towards the tendon, when, with the slightest sawing motion, the tense cord may be divided, care being observed to do this completely or failure will follow. The surgeon, To be done during this procedure, should keep his finger upon the tissue to be completely, divided, and immediately on the withdrawal of his knife, close the \ opening with his finger or thumb, the assistant relaxing the parts at the moment he feels resistance to cease. A dossil of lint should then he