SURGEIiT OF THE CHEST. 46 On hanging. Causes of death. Taylor’s views. Effects of short drop. Dr. Barker’s experience. Long drop. Treatment of asphyxia. Rules. lation by the cord, there is the added traction on it hy the weight of the falling body. Hanging causes death, according to Dr. A. Taylor, “ commonly from apncea, hut sometimes from apoplexy, caused by pressure on the jugular vein, being preceded hy convulsions, often lasting for many minutes, hut in all probability not accompanied hy more than momentary pain. Occasionally there is found displacement or fracture of the first or second of the vertebrae, with compression of the spinal marrow. This cause of death is only likely to be observed in corpulent or heavy persons, when a long fall is allowed by the cord, and is seldom met with in judicial executions.” This latter fact is supported by the ob- servations of Dr. Barker, of Melbourne, who informed Professor Haughton, of Dublin, that in fifty-four post-mortem examinations of criminals hanged according to the old or “ short-drop ” system, in not a single case was there dislocation or fracture of the neck. In the following plan, however, introduced by Dr. Barker this dislocation was the rule. Dr. Haughton quotes his words (‘ Med. Times and Gaz./ June 21st, 1871) :—“ I have the knot put about two inches from the spine, so that when it is tightened by the weight of the body the knot comes on the vertebrae; by the fall the body has an impetus forwards, the resistance being at the beam to which the rope is fastened. The knot acts as a fulcrum to push the head forwards. By this arrange- ment I have found in all cases there was a dislocation and fracture of the cervical spine and pressure on the cord, laceration of the muscles of the larynx, and generally fracture of the hyoid bone, death being always sudden and complete; no long drop is required.” To the Irish and American long-drop system there are grave objections. When the cord is crushed, death is instantaneous; when not so injured, life may be prolonged for minutes, usually about three; but there is no evidence to believe that the period may be extended to ten. Conscious life, under both circumstances, probably is soon lost, rarely extending beyond the three minutes. When the cord is not injured, Taylor computes that life may be restored after five minutes of suspension, and Tardieu, an eminent French writer, gives a similar period. Treatment of Apncea or Asphyxia. All obstruction to the passage of fresh air to and from the lungs is to be at once, so far as practicable, removed, all froth and mucus to be cleansed from the mouth and nostrils, and all tight articles of clothing to be at once taken away from the neck and chest. In slight cases of temporary apncea the treatment is as in syncope: dropping the head, which should be low in all cases, a dash of cold, or alternately of cold and hot water to the face, or a smarting slap upon the epigastrium, generally sufficing to revive the patient. When this proves useless, artificial respiration should be instantly commenced. The methods of artificial respiration which have been successively in use are those of the late Drs. Marshall Hall and Silvester; but I believe the best method to be the one more recently advocated by Dr. Benjamin Howard, of New York. This “direct method,” as the author calls it, was first published in the form of a prize essay by the American Medical Association in 1871, and has since been adopted by the United States Government Life Saving Service, the Life Saving Society of New York, &c. It is eminently simple and effective, and is