DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. 338 Subglenoid dislocation. Symptoms. Subspinous dislocation. Symptoms. be seen below the coracoid process, from the head of the bone pushing forward the pectoral muscle (Fig. 435); from behind, too, there will be some flattening of the shoulder. There will be little or no lengthening of the limb, but the elbow will be found projecting more or less from the side; the movements of the forearm will be perfect. On manipulating the shoulder, the head of the bone will be felt beneath the pectoral muscle in front of the scapula, and from the elbow it will be made to move. Dislocation downwards or subglenoid—although usually given as the most common—is probably se- cond in frequency to the subcoracoid just described. Flower asserts that not one in ten of all dislocations of the humerus can properly be called subglenoid. In it the head of the bone rests below the glenoid fossa (Fig. 434), the rent in the capsule being at its infe- rior instead of its anterior border, and the soft parts mechanically interfering with the natural ten- dency of the deltoid, coraco-brachialis, and biceps to draw the head of the humerus upwards towards the coracoid process. Symptoms.—The most constant are immobility of the arm, as well as inability to move it without pain, with a greater separation of the elbow from the side, a more marked flattening of the shoulder, greater de- pression beneath and extra prominence of the acromium than are met with in the subcoracoid variety. The most typical, however, are a depression of the anterior fold of the axilla from a drawing down of its attachment, the marked presence of the head of the bone in the axilla, and the separation of the coracoid process and the head of the mal- placed bone by a space of one to two inches (Fig. 436). Dislocation backwards or subspinous. This is next in rarity to the last, and in it the head of the bone rests beneath the spine of the scapula or base of the acromion (Fig. 437); the latter position being a less complete luxation than the former, and more common. It corresponds to Malgaigne’s “ subacro- mial” variety, this completeness of the dislocation depending upon the amount of laceration of the muscles attached to the bone, and more particularly of the subscapularis. The symptoms of this accident are very marked. Looking at the shoulder in front, there will be the flattening of the deltoid and pro- minence of the acromium as usual, but there will be a marked flat- tening if not depression of the soft parts below the coracoid and acromion processes. The elbow instead of being fixed away from the side will be drawn to it and forwards, the forearm generally pointing outwards. The back view, however, is the most typical, the head of the bone covered with muscles and soft parts forming a prominent fea- Fig. 436.