38 SURGERY OF THE CHEST. Sedatives. Antimony. Example. Utility of venesection and abundance of bland, nutritious, but unstimulating food given, with sedatives, if required; of tbe latter chloral in half-drachm doses is probably the best, though morphia or Dover’s powder are also good. When cough or any symptoms of inflammation of the pleura or lungs appear, antimonial wine in doses of thirty minims for an adult every four or six hours in some saline mixture, is a most valuable remedy. When chest complications are severe, and orthopncea with a sense of suffocation from pulmonary congestion threatens life, venesection should be practised. Local treatment was sufficient in 100 of the 136 cases above mentioned. In a case of severe injury to the chest caused by the passage over it of the wheels of a heavily laden cart, that came under my care some time ago, fracture of five or six ribs and dislocation of the clavicle occurred, associated with collapse, intense dyspnoea, and haemoptysis; I bled the patient twice in twelve hours, and each time with imme- diate relief, the case going on to a good recovery. In it the severe dyspnoea and venous congestion, the rapid and hard pulse that came on as soon as the collapse of the accident had passed away and the circulation had been restored, too surely pointed to an excessive en- gorgement of the lungs, and so if relief were not afforded, absolute suffo- cation would speedily ensue by the patient’s own highly carbonised blood. At such a crisis, antimsny, however beneficial in simpler cases, could not be trusted, as there was no time for it to take effect. Under these circumstances bleeding was performed, and, as the blood flowed, life seemed gradually to return ; the laborious breathing became quiet and subdued; the deadened and congested eye, bright and natural; the pulse from being full and hard, softer and less bounding; and the boy’s feelings, released from the impression that death was nigh at hand, be- came more hopeful and resigned; and, as a spectator, I felt such a hope was valid, and that success might crown our efforts. After the lapse of twelve hours, however, the symptoms returned, and the repetition of the bleeding was followed by a repetition of all its benefits. The antimony then came in to complete the cure; by tbe double venesec- tion, the pulmonary vessels had been relieved of their congestion, while the antimony, in acting upon the circulation, perfected the cure by preventing a return of the former threatening symptoms. The bene- fits arising from the treatment adopted in this case have such a lasting hold on my memory that I cannot too strongly recommend the prac- tice thus pursued, and the more so, as I have seen it equally successful in other cases. Bleeding is now rarely performed; and at Guy’s Hospital I believe it is rarer than any capital operation. In the case of lace- rated lung, however, when urgent dyspnoea makes its appearance and the powers of the patient do not forbid it, I know of nothing which gives greater relief to the patient or greater pleasure to the prac- titioner. Bleed with no sparing hand; letting it flow freely in a full stream, and as it flows, the symptoms will gradually disappear. When relief has been obtained, arrest the flow immediately, as syncope can only do harm. The aim should be to make an impression through the systemic circulation upon the pulmonary. The patient should be carefully watched, and the operation repeated if the symptoms return, and, if necessary, even for a third time. The antimonial treatment, however, must not be neglected. The object of the bleeding is to relieve