CHANCRE. 178 On treatment of chancre. Immediate destruction. When ulceration has taken place. Means of destroying: chancre. Ordinary principles of treatment. In early stage no special treatment. Complica- tions of chancre. Phimosis. When to he slit up. to the pathological surgeon as safe and as intelligible as the more elaborate descriptions of modern writers.” (‘ Guy’s Hos. Rep.,’ 1840.) Treatment of chancre. The uncertainty that most surgeons entertain as to the nature of a chancre, from the knowledge that any sore upon the penis ranging from a simple excoriation to an indurated chancre may be the inocu- lation of syphilis, renders it desirable and expedient that all sores should be destroyed at the very earliest period, and when this is effec- tually done before the ulcerative stage has set in, or during the vesi- cular, papular, or pustular, there is good reason to believe that syphilis may often be prevented. When, however, the sore exists as an ulcer, this abortive practice is useless, indeed, in the majority of cases, it makes a small sore large, retards recovery, and in no way prevents syphilitic symptoms appear- ing where the chancre had had a syphilitic origin. But, taking all together, not one chancre out of four has a syphilitic origin. For the destruction of a chancre on its first appearance, nitrate of silver, nitric acid, potassa fusa, or chloride of zinc may be employed, the base of the sore being well destroyed. When this is not done, the chancre should be treated on ordinary principles; to the inflamed, lead lotion, with or without opium, may be applied; to the sloughing, opium with tonics, internally, are indicated; to the indolent, nitric acid lotion or black wash are the best stimu- lants ; while to ordinary sores, water dressing should be used. A chancre requires no special treatment as a chancre, beyond its primary destruction from motives of expediency, or from reasons of weight to destroy a supposed syphilitic inoculation. The common practice of applying black wash to all sores on the penis is not needed; and to cauterise all chancres at every stage of their existence as soon as they come under notice is unnecessary. But when the powers of the patient are feeble, tonics are called for, and any special conditions are to be treated as common sense indicates. Medicines useful for syphilis should only be given when other evi- dence of syphilis exists beyond that afforded by the local inoculation. To treat all chancres alike, as if due to syphilis, is uncalled for and unscientific ; by doing so many patients are sacrificed to a theory greatly to their detriment. Complications of Chancre. Phimosis is one of the most common, and is found in at least a fourth of all forms of chancre and at all stages of their progress, although with the sloughing sore, it is probably the most frequent. In the fringing preputial chancres, however, it is a common complication. It is an accidental accompaniment of a chancre, and is due to the in- flammatory infiltration of the prepuce. When not severe, it is not a condition of much importance, if local cleanliness be attended to, for as the chancres heal, the inflammatory oedema will subside and the parts assume their natural condition. When, however, oedema is present, and a blood-stained discharge mixed with the debris of broken-up tissues escapes from beneath the prepuce, and doubt consequently is felt as to the nature, position, and character of the chancre; when evidence exists that the parts beneath are undergoing a destructive process which demands direct local treatment, the prepuce must be slit up, the surgeon taking