106 LITHOTRITY. Treatment after the operation of lithotrity. When a second operation to be performed. On chloroform in lithotrity. Selection of instrument to be employed. The sitting having been brought to a close, the patient should be well covered up in bed, and a tumblerful of warm wine-and-water, or brandy-and-water given, this practice having a tendency to check the rigor that so often follows the operation. The patient should not, if possible, make water for some short time afterwards, and he should then make it in the recumbent posture, care being taken that the chamber into which the water passes is covered with a layer of muslin to catch such fragments of stone as may pass. After twelve hours of the recumbent position, if no unusual irrita- bility of bladder exists, the patient may get up. The second operation may be performed within three or four days of the first when no bladder symptoms exist; but where these are pre- sent, or have become aggravated, a longer interval should be allowed; a week or ten days being sufficient. The same may be said for all sub- sequent sittings. When a fragment becomes impacted in the urethra and produces retention, it should either be gently pushed back into the bladder with a large catheter or removed with urethral forceps. These fragments not only produce retention at times, but epididymitis, from irritation of the caput gallinaginis. With respect to the use of chloroform in lithotrity, there can be no doubt that it may under some circumstances be given with great ad- vantage, although when the patient has good pluck, there is no reason why it should be administered; but the same care and gentleness should be observed in an unconscious as in a conscious subject, and with it, no more harm to the bladder is likely to accrue. With respect to the nature of the implements employed in crushing a stone, lightness combined with strength are the two essentials; each part should work very smoothly upon the other, and the means em- ployed to change the action of the instrument from the sliding move- ment of the blades to the screw should be as simple as possible. Civiale originally employed a three-pronged instrument, but at the present time the screw, as originally invented by Hodgson, improved by Weiss, and adopted by Sir B. Brodie, Key, and others, is the more common form of mechanical power employed. The mode of its applica- tion, however, has been greatly improved in recent times, the instruments of Weiss, Charriere, and Matthews supplying us with everything the surgeon could desire. One made by Matthews, of Carey Street, and figured below, is the one I prefer. It is based on the movement em- ployed by Charriere and Weiss, and has a movable handle, which enables the surgeon, when employing the English mode of seizing the stone, to keep the female blade of the instrument perfectly steady. The instrument is worked by the screw, and the change from the screw to the sliding movement is made rapidly by simply moving the thumb- plate—this plate being fixed in the required position by screw catches (Fig. 346). The blades of the instrument may be either fenestrated at their ends to facilitate the breaking of the calculus, though such instruments are not now much employed; or flattened and plain, with roughened male blades for powdering or crushing the pieces. These latter instruments, made very small and slight, have been called scoops. Sir W. Fergusson used the rack-and-pin instrument he invented in 1834, and it is very serviceable. In his hands it answered every