ON OVARIOTOMY. 275 air, simple nutritious diet, a fair amount of stimulants, and the ad- Diet, ministration of some tonic. Let the patient take exercise when she can without pain, and he careful that it is kept within the limits of Exercise, fatigue, that it be taken on level ground, and that no shaking or straining be on any account allowed; and, when she is at rest, the half-reclining position ought to be usually assumed. For a day Resl a day or two before the operation, however, exercise, even when possible, or two before is not to be advised, as quiet and repose are then of some essential operation, service. As a tonic medicine, iron appears to he of real and important value, Tonics or having apparently an influence for good which other tonics do not possess. it is no more useful, however, before the operation of ovariotomy than any other capital operation, though it is as good, and I have often thought that in hospital practice wounds are less prone to inflame, and erysipelatous affections are less common under the influence of this medicine than when no such preliminary treatment has been adopted. In peritoneal operations, this point is of primary importance, and, as a consequence, the adoption of this practice should be recommended. The form of iron I prefer is the tincture of the perchloride, twenty drops of which, combined with a like quantity of spirits of chloro- form or of syrup of lemons or tolu in water, forming a pleasant draught. The bowels of the patient should be gently opened two days pre- Attention to viously by such a mild aperient as castor oil, or a draught composed tlie towels, of ten grains of rhubarb and twenty of sulphate of potash in some aromatic water, and, on the morning of operation, the large intestine should be washed out with a warm water enema, but nothing like powerful purgation should he allowed under any consideration. Care Avoid should also he observed that the catamenial period has passed for at catamenial least a week previous to the operation, as all ovarian excitement is pen° necessarily injurious at such a time, and should be avoided. I have known cases of ovariotomy, however, undertaken without any conside- ration of this point, and believe that under such circumstances an unto- ward result is to be expected In hospital practice the patient should as much as possible be iso- Isolation and lated from all others and kept in a private room in which good venti- ventilation lation exists; a special nurse should also he secured, who is not only 'e" ' a lon‘ i, entirely trustworthy, but understands how to use a female catheter, q In private practice the patient’s own house is the best for the operation, and country patients should not be brought into town unless an urgent necessity exists; as there is little doubt that the atmosphere of a large Country air city is not so conducive to the rapid reparation of a wound as fresh Prefelall'e- country air. In abdominal surgery, this influence for good is of great value, and should not be thrown away unless from necessity. The surgeon who is to operate as well as his assistant should not allow Operator and themselves, for a few days before the operation to visit the post-mor- assi.sta,lts t0 tem or dissecting room, nor should they handle any morbid prepara- motoms* i tions. Erysipelatous affections and all contagious diseases should also and t he shunned as much as possible; indeed, the same rules which are c?nta?ious ■observed by the careful obstotric practitioner re necessary to the thet?me!°l surgeon who undertakes the operation of ovariotomy ; since the same subtle poisons which are recognised by all to be hurtful to the puer- I peral woman, act with equal force upon the subject of ovarian disease,