AMPUTATION. 575 only be undertaken when a strong necessity exists. I pointed this out in 1859, but it is not a fact sufficiently recognised. _ Amputation in young life for chronic disease is most successful, being three times more so than at a later period, one only in every seventeen dying; amputation for accident increases in fatality with age; and amputations of expediency are as dangerous at all periods of life as traumatic amputations are in the aged. Mr. Callender has also well shown (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1869) that the mortality of amputations is much alike, whether performed in country hospitals, in country private practice, or in country cases in London. In amputations on London subjects, as in the subjects of all large towns, the mortality is somewhat higher. Dr. Steele has, however, gone further, and proved by figures, that amputations performed in London for injury on country patients are, as a rule, more favorable than when performed in town cases, the difference between the two classes being far less marked in amputation for disease than for injury (* Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1869-70). The causes of death after amputation are as follows, taking these conclusions from my paper on the subject (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1859), to which the reader must be referred for further detail. Shock and exhaustion claim one third of the fatal cases, and one twelfth of all amputations. Pyaemia was the cause of death in 42 per cent, of the fatal cases, and in one tenth of all amputations. Secondary haemorrhage in 7 per cent, of the fatal cases, or 1£ per cent, of the whole number. Some complication, cerebral, thoracic or abdo- minal, causes death in about 4 per cent, of all cases. Pyaemia is nearly twice as fatal after amputations of expediency as after those for disease or primary amputations, but is less fatal after secondary amputations than any others. In amputation of the leg it is twice as destructive as in that of the thigh, the larger section of bone being the more danger- ous. In primary amputation of the leg, it is more fatal than when performed for disease. How far the deaths from secondary haemorrhage will be diminished when the practice of torsion of arteries is more general remains to be proved, although from the experience we have had at Guy’s Hospital the promise of a better result is very great. Up to the end of 1874 we have had 200 consecutive cases of amputations of the thigh, leg, arm, and forearm, in which all the arteries had been twisted (110 of them having heen of the femoral artery), and no case of secondary hannorrhage—indeed, our house-surgeons never expect to be called to cases of secondary htemorrhage now that torsion is the general practice of the hospital. The operation of amputation may be called for on account of some incurable disease or incurable injury. When performed for the first cause, the operation has been described as a pathological ampu- tation, when for the second, traumatic. Both classes are also subdivided, the pathological into amputations for suppurative disease of bones and joints—pure pathological amputation; and into those for talipes, tumours, deformities, &c.—amputations of expediency. Traumatic amputations performed during the first twenty-four hours after the accident before any inflammatory complications have set in, are called primary; the term secondary is applied to the same For chronic disease in children most successful. Mortality in country and town cases. Causes of death. Secondary haemorrhage after torsion. Statistics of cases of torsion. Amputation when called for. Different forms. Traumatic amputations.