369 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. in 2 amputation was performed; in 16 the bone was removed after sloughing and all recovered; in 23 no operation was called for, re- covery taking place with a useful limb. In all compound dislocations of the astragalus, the removal of the in compound hone should always be effected. dislocation oi Dislocations of the other tarsal bones have been recorded, aswagams. Malgaigne relates two cases of dislocation of the calcis outwards, the 01-'^|otHer hone forming a projection beneath the external malleolus and beyond larga; bones, the cuboid articulation. In 1865, I saw a case of Mr. Birkett s, at Guy’s, in which the left scaphoid hone was displaced inwards and formed a very marked projection. It was readily reduced by pressure under chloroform, at a moment when the distal end of the foot was drawn outwards. I have the notes also of a case of dislocation of the internal cuneiform bone upwards with the metatarsal bone of the Dislocation of great toe, in a man set. 24; of a second, in a man ast. 30, in which the the internal same hones were displaced inwards, the accident having been pro- cuneiform, duced by a weight falling on the outer ankle when the foot was rest- ing on the great toe. In both, reduction was readily effected with a good result. Holthouse informs us that the internal cuneiform hone may be sepa- rated from all its articulations, and thrown upwards and inwards. The three cuneiform hones are also sometimes luxated together upwards, and without much difficulty may he reduced by pressure. The scaphoid and cuboid bones may also be displaced. Malgaigne Dislocation of has described this accident as a middle tarsal dislocation; Liston has the scaphoid described it in his ‘ Practical Surgery;’ and Sir A. Cooper in his work a" cu 01 4 On Dislocations.’ Dislocations of the metatarsal hones may likewise occur. In 1854, I Dislocation o£ saw a case recorded by Mr. Cock (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1855), in which the atarsai entire metatarsus appeared to have been separated from its attachment bones, to the cuneiform and cuboid bones and thrown on the dorsal surface of the instep, where their bases could he seen and felt. The internal cuneiform and navicular hones appeared to have been likewise injured. The injury was the result of a crush from the wheel of a railway waggon. All Mr. Cock’s efforts at reduction failed, but a good foot was secured, and the man subsequently returned to his work as a labourer on the railway. Dr. Hetzig (‘ Syden. Soc. Bien. Ret.,’ 1865-6), who gives us an analysis of 29 cases of these tarso-metatarsal dislocations, states, that 13 were of single bones, 16 of the entire metatarsus, some of these being lateral and others vertical, as in Cock’s case. In the former, greater inconvenience follows from a failure in reduc- tion. Dislocations of the phalanges are less common than those of the Dislocations finger, and chiefly occur upwards from direct violence to the ends °fthe of the toes, and, as a rule, are compound. The great toe is the Phalan&es- one usually injured, and, as in the thumb, considerable difficulty is at times met with in its reduction, the ligaments and many I tendons around the joint affording an explanation of this fact. Such a case should be treated in the same way as dislocation of the thumb. Reduction must always be effected, when possible, by extension tnd well-directed pressure; forced flexion or extension sometimes facilitates the process. VOL. II. 24