547 ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. Nelaton probe in all cases in which the test would be of service, while it answers for a variety of other cases in which Nelaton’s probe would give no indication at all. By it small particles of the substance em- bedded in the tissues can be extracted for examination, and many foreign substances altogether removed. In gunshot fractures of the shafts of bones which are to be treated conservatively, Stromeyer advises that no probing ought to be performed, and in doubtful or in operation cases, it ought only to be done just before the operation or under chloroform. Electric indicators have been employed, and some are most ingenious Electric and possibly valuable, but they are not portable. The appliance of Mr. indicators. De Wilde, in which contact with the metal of a ball is notified by the sound of a bell is particularly taking, and a very useful apparatus has also been made by Messrs. Krohne and Sesemann, of Duke Street, Manchester Square. Professor Longmore speaks highly of both, but prefers the latter. It is designed to ascertain with absolute certainty, if a substance lodged in the body, and admitting of being touched with the probe or grasped with the forceps, is a bullet, a fragment of a pro- jectile, or other metallic substance. The probe is elastic, and follows the track of any projectile more readily than a stiff probe. Two sharp needles are concealed in it, which, when a hard body is felt, are pushed forwards one after the other. This is done by pressing the small but- tons on the handles towards the probe. As soon as the two points touch the foreign substance, if it be metal, the electric current passes through the instrument, a fact immediately indicated by the hand on the dial. The hand moves actively either towards the right or left side. The forceps possess this principal advantage that they can be also used as a probe, thereby dispensing in many cases with the use of the elastic probe altogether. The extremities are furnished with Assalini’s points, with which particles of clothing can be removed, if such should be before the projectile. If a foreign body is touched with the forceps it should be gently grasped between both blades. If it be a bullet or any piece of metallic projectile, the electric currrent passes through it, and the hand on the dial moves again actively, as described above. It is, of course, necessary to fix the connecting wires of the instrument into the brass heads on each side of the dial. In the drawer below the dial there is a small battery charged with sulphate of mercury. If the charge has become too dry and weak it should be moist- ened with a few drops of water, and a few pinches of sulphate of mer- cury should be added. It is to be observed that the zinc plate touches the platinum points in the trough. In exceptional and chronic cases where time has been allowed to pass, these instruments are of greater use than in primary cases. It need hardly be re-asserted that when a ball has penetrated any of the cavities of the body such as the head, chest, or abdomen, it is not to be sought for on any account. When a foreign body has been detected it should be removed; at least Removal of this is the rule. Coxeter’s extractor, composed of a scoop for holding bullet, and a pin for fixing the bullet has been highly praised (Pig. 601). Instruments with blades cannot be recommended as they necessitate the dilatation of the wound. Mac Corrnac writes, “ The bullet forceps I preferred was one with claw Forceu- points, at a right angle with the handle, and slightly overlapping, so as *