AFFECTIONS OF BURS^I MUCOSA, GANGLION, ETC. 301 carefully adjusted to tlie necessities of tlie case. Sedatives are always ■wanted in some one of their forms. Morphia acts the most rapidly in quarter- or half-grain doses given subcutaneously. Water dressing or poultices should be applied. In very severe cases when the powers of life are failing, amputation may be justifiable, more particularly when the prospects are small of giving a useful hand or arm. For the arrest Occlusion of diffused inflammation in the hand and arm the occlusion of the °rt"'^mt-or main artery of the limb has been suggested. Moore and Maunder arrest of have both adopted it in the upper extremity, with enough success, to inflammation, justify the practice. Bleeding is apt to take place at times during the progress of the sloughing of the tendon, and if recurrent, such a complication is likely to induce the surgeon to perform some ope- rative act "for its control upon the main vessel of the extremity. Before doing this, however, he should always remove any sloughing tendon, as-1 have known haemorrhage even of a severe kind to be kept up by the presence of a sloughing tendon in a part, and to have been arrested by its femoval. Chronic Inflammation of Tendons. The thecae of the tendons of the extensors of the thumb, of the Chronic tendo Achillis, and the long tendon of the biceps, as of other muscles, inflammation are liable to inflame,, and this action is attended by pain and weak- 0 en ons’ ness on moving the muscles, and at times by swelling. More frequently, however, the affection will show itself by a peculiar crackling sensa- i tion which may be felt on grasping the part when the muscles are in motion. This crepitation when it has followed an injury, has more than once been mistaken for that of fracture; yet it is distinct, and when once felt ought to be recognised. The affection is readily cured by rest of the affected muscles, through the application of splints and by counter-irritation by means of one or more blisters. The 1 inflammation rarely goes on to suppuration unless neglected. AFFECTIONS OF BURS2E MUCOSAS, SYNOVIAL CYSTS, GANG- LION, ETC. Simple lursce are protective synovial sacs found in the subcutaneous Definition, tissue, wherever pressure or friction is persistently present. Synovial bursa are of the same kind and are formed in the same way, although situated between bone and muscle, tendon and bone, or between muscles j while some synovial bursas are really synovial hernia, or pouchings of an over-distended membrane of a joint into the connective tissue between the muscles. A ganglion is a bursal swelling directly connected with the sheath of a tendon, and may be local or diffused. When a bursa (simple or synovial) has an established anatomical position it is called normal, and when it is a purely pathological pro- duction, accidental. Any of these bursas are liable to inflame, suppu- rate, or consolidate. Simple bursse. The subcutaneous bursa over the patella or its ligament is more commonly enlarged than any other, and when it is so is known as the