ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 553 Gunshot Wounds of the Chest. Gunshot wounds of chest. Non- penetraling These are returned as one in ten among the officers and one in seven- teen amongst the men in the Crimean war, about 30 per cent, of these died; in the American war the mortality was 73 per cent. Non-penetrating gunshot wounds generally recover, although they are slow in healing, on account of the natural movements of the ribs interrupting the process of repair. They are, moreover, apt to be followed by pleuritis, on account of the frequency of the ball taking a circuitous course beneath the skin round the walls of the chest. When the chest has been severely contused from a spent ball or a heavy fragment of shell, abscesses or even necrosis of the ribs are prone to follow the accident, and from the same character of accident where there is no fracture, the lungs may be injured, this result being like- wise met with in young subjects in civil practice when the chest is squeezed. Professor Longmore states that “ecchymosis, or at least congestion of the lung itself, to a partial extent, in all probability follows every non-penetrating gunshot wound of the chest of much severity.” The ribs may likewise be broken and driven in, as in the direct blows of civil life. Penetrating gunshot wounds are generally fatal, scarcely more than Penetratin one in ten surviving, while death generally results directly from harnior- rhage, or from the consequences of secondary inflammation of the thoracic organs. The difficulties of diagnosis in these cases are as great as they are in civil practice, especially if the bullet be small and has entered obliquely near the scapula, or if the track of the bullet is covered by sound skin. “ It is only,” says Longmore, “ by a combi- nation of symptoms, rather than by the presence of any one or other symptom, that a lung wound can in many instances be diagnosed.” Penetrating wounds with lodgment of the ball are more fatal than perforating wounds, and a fracture of the rib at the wound of entry reuders a penetrating wound more dangerous. When the lung has been wounded by a penetrating shot, shock, collapse, escape of air, haemorrhage from the external wound and from the lung, hsemothorax and dyspnoea are characteristic symptoms. The shock is, however, frequently less in penetrating than in non-penetrating wounds when the latter are attended with general concussion. It is remarkable that a lung may at times be completely traversed by a ball, and beyond the haemoptysis and dyspnoea of the first few days'be followed by only the most trivial symptoms. External bleeding in chest injuries is also said to be more commonly due to laceration of an intercostal or the internal mammary artery than to a wounded lunar. Wonndcil lung. External haemorrhage. Internal bleeding is the chief cause of death, but the surgeon has no Internal means at his disposal to make out the exact source of the haemorrhage, htemorrhage. A gush of blood from the mouth indicates the opening of a large vessel, but in more chronic cases the sources of the bleeding may be pulmonary or parietal. “ The situation of the wound of entrance, or the course the ball has taken, inferred from the relative positions of the wounds of entrance and exit, will greatly help to determine the probable site of the bleeding, and to some extent its probable decree of gravity. Internal bleeding from a wounded intercostal artery is very rare.”