126 SURGERY OP THE URETHRA. CHAPTER XXIII. SURGERY OF THE URETHRA. Definition. Obstruction and its causes. Organic Generally chronic. A diminution in the calibre of the urethra, the result of organic changes within its walls, gives rise to stricture; any encroachment on the passage from without or within causes obstruction. Obstruction occurs when the urethra is narrowed from inflammatory engorgement of its mucous and submucous tissue (the inflammatory stricture of some authors), or from spasm of the urethral muscle's (spasmodic stricture) ; when an abscess or tumour outside the urethra, or any prostatic enlargement encroaches on the urethra, or any frac- ture of the pelvis presses upon it; and lastly, when a calculus or foreign body is impacted in the passage, or a urethral polypus blocks it up. Organic stricture is caused by the contraction of inflammatory de- stricture, and posit situated upon, within, or beneath the mucous membrane of the its causes. canal, or from the contraction of the cicatrix of a ruptured or injured urethra. The first form may be described as simple organic stricture. The second as traumatic or cicatricial stricture. The former is the more common, my notes showing 603 examples of the former to 43 of the latter in consecutive cases, or in the proportion of fourteen to one. In the majority of cases the contraction of an organic stricture is of a chronic nature, and in some may be readily traced to a more or less distinct chronic inflammation of the passage; but years will fre- quently pass before the obstruction to the flow of urine becomes of sufficient importance to arrest attention, and a sudden attack of retention of urine, induced by some act of irregularity or exposure to cold, will probably be the first symptom to draw the patient’s attention to his condition. The stricture may consist simply of a perforated membranous diaphragm stretched across the canal, of a narrow hand of inflam- matory product surrounding the passage, to which the terms “ whip- cord,” “ ring,” or “ annular” stricture is attached, and in rarer cases to bands of lymph stretching across the passage, and forming what are known as “ bridle strictures.” It may be general or partial, and when the latter, may have been caused either by some adhesion of the natural rugae of the urethra, or of some folds of its mucous lining. When the stricture is more extensive, there is hardly a limit to the extent of inflammatory deposit which may exist, from the narrow band already alluded to as forming the “annular” stricture, passing onwards to the broader hand which answers to Sir A. Cooper’s term of “ ribbon” stricture, to the still severer cases in which the urethra is found more or less contracted throughout its entire course. Between these ex- tremes, numberless varieties and degrees of mischief may be observed, the urethra presenting one single contraction, or several indepen- dent ones. John Hunter mentioned a case in which six strictures coexisted. Lastly, the urethra may unquestionably become “impermeable,” the pathological specimens in Guy’s Museum being sufficient to demonstrate the fact. Such a condition, however, cannot exist uncomplicated with other symptoms, since it is obvious that the mine must have some Varieties of stricture. Impermeable stricture.