DIAGNOSIS OP OVARIAN TUMOURS. 265 catamenial irregularity is common in ovarian disease, total arrest for any time is rare. The early history of an ovarian case is always obscure, and the Diagnosis of statements of patients concerning its early growth must be accepted ovarian with caution. In a general way, the tumour is discovered by accident, tuluuur. or, attention is first drawn to its presence by abdominal enlargement. Pain is rarely present in the early stage of the disease, and when it exists is usually the result of mechanical causes; that is, it is due to the impaction of a small ovarian tumour in the pelvis, or to the pressure of a larger one upon the viscera, vessels, or nerves. When the tumour presses upon the bladder, incontinence of urine or dysuria will occur; but when it irritates the bowels, diarrhoea. When it drags upon the omentum or presses upon the stomach, nausea and vomiting may be present, and where it encroaches upon the thorax, dyspnoea. Nerve pains will be produced according to the nerves that are pressed upon, and oedema of the genitals, legs, or abdomen, accord- ing to the amount of interference to the return of venous blood caused by the tumour. (Edema of the abdominal walls is said to be typical of cancerous disease of the ovaries, but this is not the case, since I have seen this symptom very frequently in undoubted examples of simple ovarian disease. Local pain, pyrexia, with a high temperature and abdominal ten- derness associated with a cystic abdominal tumour, generally indicate inflammatory changes within an ovarian cyst. Dermoid tumours are said to be more commonly attended with pain than airy other, and unilocular cysts with less, though I cannot confirm the former observation. In well-marked examples of ovarian disease the face becomes pinched Ovarian and the peculiar “ovarian expression ” manifests itself, but after the expression, removal of the tumour by ovariotomy, it is remarkable how soon this expression disappears. The differential diagnosis of an ovarian tumour will now occupy our Differential attention, and its physical signs will be first considered as made out by diagnosis, percussion and palpation, since it is by these more than any others that the surgeon is generally led to an approximate opinion of the nature of the case. Too much confidence, however, must not be placed on them, since they are only of value when taken in connection with other symptoms. In all cases of suspected ovariau disease, the patient to be examined Inspection, should be undressed and then placed on her back. The surgeon should afterwards so expose the abdomen as to be able to have a good look at it and observe whether the abdominal enlargement is central or lateral smooth, irregular, or nodular in outline; be should view it also for a sufficient time to satisfy himself that the outline is stationary and that it does not shift. He should then place his hand flat upon the abdomen and having rested it there for a minute or so to test the points iust alluded to, move it steadily over the whole surface of the tumour in all directions, and, at the same time by palpation, ascertain something of n , the condition of the deeper parts. ° Palpation. By these means, much will have been ascertained as to the nature of the case. It will have been made out whether a tumour exists or not • something will have been learnt, too, concerning its size and mobility and whether it is solid, fluid, or the two combined. 3