Treatment. Teeatment.—In all cases of completely ruptured muscle, the parts Suppuration as a result. 290 AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. as a loose, fleshy mass, and below the tuberosity of the Ischium, a marked deficiency was present. I have also the notes of a case of complete laceration of the extensor triceps muscle of the thigh above the patella, in a railway inspector, who said that it gave way with a report on his attempting to start off suddenly for a run. In this case there was great effusion of blood into the part within a few hours, which had subsided after the application of ice, the separation of the muscle from the patella being very distinct. In drawing (fig. 411), rupture of the rectus femoris is illustrated, and was taken from a male patient, set. 42. Fig. 411. Bupture of rectus femoris just above patella in a man, at. 42. Minor degrees of laceration of muscles are of common occurrence, and often followed for many months by pain, stiffness, and want of power in the part, the pain disappearing for a time to reappear on any over-action of the weakened muscle. These pains are often called rheumatic. Mr. Poland records in his ‘ Fothergillian Prize Essay’ two cases of complete rupture of the rectus abdominis muscle in the hypogastric region, so that the finger could be laid in the dents between the re- tracted ends. Both occurred in the wards of Guy’s Hospital, and in men of advanced years suffering under organic disease, the one had an advanced stage of bladder and kidney mischief the sequelae of old stricture, the other was suffering from a relapse after continued fever. In both, the accident had been caused by a fall across the iron rods of the bedstead in a vain attempt to rise and walk, and both died a few days after the accident, when complete rupture of the rectus was found in the middle of the hypogastric region. Coagulated blood was present between the divided ends as if only just poured out. Ho signs of repair existed. must be relaxed in order that the divided ends may be made to ap- proximate as much as possible and be fixed at rest, so that repair may not be interrupted. When much effusion of blood or serum follows, ice may be applied in a bag; and, when absorption has somewhat advanced, a stimulating liniment hastens recovery and gives comfort. When these are not attended to, repair cannot go on; indeed, as a conse- quence of neglect, suppuration is by no means a rare result, as is seen in psoas abscess. When the laceration has been complete, permanent weakness will remain, and, when the abdominal muscles are at fault, some hernial protrusion of the abdominal contents will take place. In