42 SURGERY OF THE CHEST. Tumours of chest. Deformities of chest. Pigeon breast. Thoracen- tesis. In pneumo thorax. In licemo thorax. In hydro- thorax medicine. If the boue dies (necrosis) the dead portion must he re- moved when nature proves herself incompetent to throw off the sequestrum. When sinuses exist about the thorax, the surgeon should always he alive to the fact that they may be due either to an empyema which has naturally discharged itself, or, to a substernal abscess which is making its way through the intercostal spaces. The history of the case will be found to he the only correct clue to the diagnosis. In both instances, a free opening into the abscess and the washing out of its cavity is required. Tumours of the chest are not uncommon, but come more under the notice of the physician. Malignant and other tumours, however, may arise external to the ribs, and I have seen several cases of exosto- sis from the ribs and one of enchondroma. No surgical interference was called for. Exostosis from the first rib may press upon the branches of the brachial plexus and give rise to some pain, or upon the subclavian artery or vein and produce obstruction. Deformities of the chest are mostly due to spinal curvatures, though the contracted or compressed thorax with the projecting sternum of childhood (pigeon breast) is frequently found where some long-con- tinued obstruction to natural respiration exists. This is not, however, permanent in a large number of cases, since children who are the subjects of it “ grow out” of the deformity as their general condition improves and powers strengthen. It is commonly found in rickety subjects, and is thought by some to be the result of enlarged tonsils. It is probable, however, that the enlarged tonsils and deformity are accidental asso- ciates. Deformity of the chest may be due to an old pleurisy. Tapping the Chest. When air accumulates in the chest (joneumo-thorax) either as a con- sequence of disease or accident, causes pressure on the lung and inter- feres with the respiratory process so as to create alarm, the tapping of thechest (paracentesisthoracis) with a small trocar and canula fitted with a valve, may be called for. When blood accumulates ('licemo-thorax) producing similar alarming symptoms, and the blood is mixed with air, and it is clear that life will be extinguished if relief be not afforded, it must be let out; and for this purpose it is probably the best operation to make an incision into the thorax where no wouud previously existed, or to enlarge a small one when present; but to do this with a trocar and canula is always a difficult and often an impossible task on account of the coagulum. When serum presses upon the thoracic contents hydro-thorax) and requires surgical interference, the trocar and canula with the aspirator are beyond doubt the best instrument to employ, great care being observed to exclude air. The object, under all these circumstances, is to remove the pressure from the lung in the most effectual way by the withdrawal of the compressing material. When pus exists (empyema) surgeons are not quite decided as to the best means to be employed, although all are agreed as to the propriety of drawing off the pus. To do this by means of the aspirator or the trocar and canula gives temporary relief, but does not cure the disease, for which more efficient measures are required. For my own part 1 believe that when pus so presses upon the lungs and interferes with the respiratory