ON OVARIOTOMY. 287 of enemata. The bladder should never be allowed to become distended, nor the bowels be left loaded too long. On the use of opium a few remarks remain to be made, for upon this point the practice of surgeons appears to be undergoing a change. In the early operations of ovariotomy it was extensively employed, and at the present time, some are still free with its use, but there is good reason to believe, that in this operation as in others, a very free admin- istration of the drug in every case is not attended by such good re- sults as could be wished; and that in a patient under its full influence, a wound does not repair so rapidly and favourably as in another where natural processes are allowed to progress without interference. Opium carefully given to allay pain and cause sleep, is a drug upon the value of which there cannot be a doubt, but opium administered with sufficient freedom to bring, and repeated often enough to maintain, a patient under its influence, is a drug the use of which a surgeon should be on his guard. In ovarian cases it ought not to be given in larger quantities than sufficient to allay pain and secure sleep. A patient should not be kept under its full influence, unless there are specific reasons for it. It is best administered by the bowel, being less liable to cause injurious effects, and more likely to produce good, since it is absorbed as rapidly by the rectum as by the stomach, and in abdominal operations, it tends much to maintain that requisite quies- cence of intestinal actions which in all such cases is so desirable. In my own practice I have been accustomed for some years to administer opium by the bowel in preference to the stomach, in all cases of abdominal surgery. After the operation of ovariotomy, patients may become pregnant. Many of mine have done so, and in one case recorded in the * Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1873, a patient had twins, one male and the other female. Ovariotomy may even succeed when performed upon a pregnant woman. Mr. Spencer Wells has reported nine such operations with eight recoveries. In five of the nine cases pregnancy proceeded and living children were born after natural labour, and in all these, the operation was performed within the fourth month. In the other cases a miscarriage occurred. On the treatment of suppurating ovarian cysts. When an ovarian tumour is breaking down and undergoing disorgan- izing or suppurative changes, whether spontaneously or after tapping, it has been already stated that it is the surgeon’s duty to interfere, and to remove what is a serious source of constitutional irritation, and which, if left to itself, must to au almost certainty destroy life. This should be done by means of an exploratory operation. When the tumour can be removed as a whole, so much the better; but, when it has contracted such adhesions with the parts around as to be practically immovable, as much of the tumour should be turned out of the parent cyst as possible, and the cyst itself stitched to the margins of the wound, the suppu- rating cavity being well washed out once or twice daily, and a drainage tube left in. I have recorded an excellent example of this practice Tn ‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.’for 1868, where a woman, set. 34, was successfully treated by these means; and more recently, in 1874, I removed a sup- purating ovarian cyst associated with acute peritonitis with a successful result. Opium. On suppurating ovarian cysts.