240 INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. Pressure. Belladonna. Friction. Inflammation of the breast. Inflammation usually (luring state of activity. Statistics. Abscess in infants’ breasts. Pressure should then be employed by means of strapping, which must be applied over the gland previously smeared with the extract of belladonna, rendered liquid with an equal part of glycerine. A sa- line or other purge is often of value, with some tonic medicine as quinine—a mixture of two or three drachms of the sulphate of mag- nesia and one or two grains of quinine, two or three times a day being as good as any. In lobular engorgement of the breast, gentle friction is of great value, with or without oil, and warm and moist applications are also most useful. INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. This may appear as a subcutaneous more or less extensive peri-glan- dular abscess; a local phlegmonous lobular inflammation; or a diffused abscess throughout the whole gland; and may primarily involve the connective tissue which exists between the lobules as well as the true secreting structure of the gland. It may likewise occur behind the gland. It may be acute or chronic in its nature; it may run its course with- out any breaking up of tissue or suppuration, or be attended with most destructive local results; the extent of destruction of tissue depending upon the severity of the inflammatory process, and the amount of constitutional power of the subject of the disease. As a rule, however, suppuration takes place. “When the mamma, in its state of full expansion and perfect func- tional activity, becomes the subject of an interference, the result is very commonly a diffuse or nodular inflammation and the formation of an abscess. A sudden stoppage of the milk soon after the lactation has been established is apt to produce inflammation, and the same result, or a degree of it, sometimes follows the weaning of the child after a long course of suckling. The disturbing cause, whatever it may be, acts upon the mamma when its function is at its greatest intensity, and the characteristic effect is inflammation and abscess.”—Creighton. In a general way, inflammation attacks the breast gland when in a state of activity ; and it is exceptional for the passive organ to be the subject of this process; for out of 102 consecutive cases under my observation, 79 occurred during lactation, 2 during pregnancy, and 21 in patients who were neither suckling nor pregnant. Moreover, three fourths of the cases that occurred during lactation attack patients during the first two months. In many of these, a cracked nipple was the assigned cause, but I am disposed to think with Mr. Ballard, that abscess in the early months is due to the searching of the child after milk before the gland is filled, in patients who have neither sufficient power to secrete milk, nor to resist the inflammatory process when once originated. The affection is more common in primiparse, and the right breast is more frequently affected than the left in the propor- tion of 5 to 3. In some cases, the rapidity of the process is very marked, an abscess forming within a few days, while in others it is most insidi- ous ; chronic abscesses have been often mistaken for new growths, and amputation of the gland performed under this false diagnosis. Abscesses occur in infants' breasts, and they are too commonly the con- sequence of an ignorant nurse applying pressure to the glands in which milk is found, or friction to “ rub away the milk.” The milk appears to be more abundant in the male than in the female infant. They are also met with in the male subject from injury or other causes