419 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. pacted, the upper fragment having been forced into the hollow of the *™P.acte lower, which it has split. It occurred in a patient under my care in 1876, set. 83, from a fall down an area upon his knee. The man died on the 29th day. from kidney disease. (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ vol. 29,1878.) The displacement that takes place turns much upon the line of the DispUce- obliquity and the position of the fracture. In fracture below the lesser trochanter, the upper fragment is prone to be drawn forward by the action of the psoas and iliacus muscles, and outward by the external rotators. In fractures above the condyles, the lower fragment is apt to be drawn backward by the unantagonised action of the gastrocnemii muscles. In fractures of the centre of the shaft, the deformity depends on the line of obliquity. Rotation outwards of the lower fragment is found in nearly every case. There is usually no difficulty in diagnosing a fracture of the shaft, the Diagnosis, following symptoms being usually present:—A fall or injury, followed by loss of power in the lfrnb; shortening, which extension can rectify; deformity, probably angular; extra mobility of the lower part of the injured limb; crepitus; and probably the projection of one end of a fragment with eversion of the foot. When the fracture is trans- verse, the shortening will rarely be marked; when it is oblique, the direction of the angular deformity often indicates the line of the obliquity. In young children where the fracture is incomplete, shortening with bowing of the limb after an accident, and an indistinct sensation of yielding on manipulation, with or without a peculiar crackling sensa- tion, indicate the nature of the accident. Treatment.—The fragments haviug been carefully adjusted by Treatment, means of extension and gentle manipulation, the mechanical treatment of these fractures consists in the maintenance of extension by means of some applied force and the complete rest of the co-apted bones; gentle compression of the affected part being sometimes beneficial. To assist the surgeon towards these ends, some anaesthetic may be used if the pain be severe and it is impossible by other means to keep the patient at rest, and any spasmodic action of the muscles interferes with the surgeon’s aims. The means adopted for these ends vary considerably, according to the fancy of the surgeon and the fashion of the school. Thus, in hospitals where the Scotch influence is great, Liston’s long splint is the usual Liston’s one employed, which should extend well up into the axilla, and several sP'iat. inches below the foot (Fig. 506, without foot-piece). It ought to be well padded and supplied with a soft perineal band, such as a leather strap, or a piece of india-rubber tubing. The ankle and instep should he well protected from pressure by cotton-wool, and the retaining bandage applied with equal pressure. At Guy’s, where the long splint has been for years employed, Desault’s Desault’s splint, with a foot-piece (Fig. 525), and the addition of a cross- ^^dlfied bar for steadiness has been more generally preferred, although within the last few years it has given way to the double one (Figs. 507, 550). Double The splint may be of wood or metal, and made with a slide so as to splint, be adjusted to different patients. In fractures of the upper third, where the upper fragment is apt to tilt forward and be rotated outwards, the double inclined plane is often Double in- of great value. It should be employed, however, only when the long splint cliued plai,e-