534 RICKETS. Chemical changes in the bone. Prognosis and treatment. Rickets. Symptoms. corpuscles become wider, although not with certainty more numerous. At a later date the earthy matter becomes absorbed; the Haversian canals become surrounded by a transparent ring of animal matter; which rings then become disintegrated and absorbed. By this process the Haversian system becomes destroyed, the bone assuming a liollowed-out, porous, or somewhat sponge-like appearance: The contrast between the healthy and diseased bone is well seen in Figs. 598, 598a. The same changes occur in the cancellated as in the compact tissue. In the more advanced stage, the bone disintegrates rapidly; debris of tissue, such as the remains of blood-vessels, shreds of membrane, fat- and oil-globules, with “ marrow-cells,” fill up the large spaces. Chemically, the inorganic constituents are greatly diminished and chemical disunion and physical disunion co-exist, the earthy matter being more readily dissolved out of the diseased than out of normal bone. In healthy bone, “writes Durham,” the constituents are combined; in diseased bone they seem rather to be mixed. The animal constituents are likewise more fatty and less nitrogenized than in normal bone, the fat is more free, In the mineral constituents the proportion of the car- bonate of lime to the phosphate is much diminished. The prognosis in these cases is always bad, although the possibility of a cure should not be doubted. Trousseau relates cases in which a good result was obtained under the combined influence of rest, warmth, good food, and cod-liver oil; the deformity, of course, remaining. Lime salts ought not to be given in these cases, as they cannot be retained, and to give them, adds Durham, is only to throw additional work upon the excreting organs. Eickets is an affection of early childhood, and, by Sir W. Jenner, is said to be the commonest of the diathetic affections among the London poor. It is, however, found in the families of the higher classes, and it is essentially due to some mal-nutrition of the body, connected probably with bad feeding and the use of farinaceous in lieu of animal food, the bones during their period of growth expanding at their epiphysial ends and bending in their shafts, and being very prone to incomplete or green-stick fracture. “ Displacement and obliquity of the epiphyses may ensue from softness and flexibility of the layer of bone uniting it to the diaphysis, as is seen more especially in the ribs; but a slighter degree of epiphysial obliquity is noticed in many of the joints of the long bones, such as the knee or ankle ; the weight of the body is thus thrown unequally, so that one set of ligaments has to bear more trac- tion than another. These ligaments then yield, and the joints become loose, so that rachitic knock-knee (genu valgum) or bow legs (genu varum) is formed.” “ From sustaining the weight of the body the femur bends forwards, the tibia usually forwards and either inwards or outwards, the greatest amount of yielding being where the bone is thinnest and weakest. In many cases we find the os femoris bent forwards, with anterior and outward curvature of the tibia, knock-knee and flat-foot being co-existent in the same individual. Just so far as the rachitic condition extends so may we look for abnormities of form; thus, the pelvic may acquire some of those well-known contractions of its outlet which are matters of such grievous moment to women at the period of parturition,” the pelvis either retaining in adult life the small size and imperfect