85 URINARY CALCULI. ammonia, phosphate of iron, urea, &c. The oxalates are the heaviest stones, the phosphates the lightest and largest; few exceed an ounce in weight. Coulson records one, however, over six pounds. Recent calculi contain moisture, and consequently are heavier than old. Stones vary in shape according to their position. Thus, renal calculi are generally irregular, often arborescent; those in the ureter elongated, approaching a cylindrical form. Bladder calculi when single, are more ovoid and flattened, when multiple, facetted. The mulberry stone or oxalate is always tuberculated, mostly globular and hard; the uric acid and urate calculi smooth and regular, the phosphatic irregular of odd shapes and soft. The dumb-bell calculus is usually prostato- vesical or encysted. The colour of a calculus is no good guide to its nature, as all calculi when associated with bladder irritation and ammoniacal urine become covered with a white coating of phosphatic deposit. A stone of uric acid, however, is usually fawn or brown coloured, of urate of ammonia cinder-grey, of oxalate of lime brown or blackish-green, of xanthic or uric oxide cinnamon-brown, of cystic oxide a grey-greenish hue. Phosphatic calculi, as are other forms when covered with a like de- posit, are often horribly fetid and ammoniacal. They are too com- monly soft and friable. The section of a calculus reveals its structure, and, while some are homogeneous, the majority display concentric layers of different degrees of thickness ; exceptional examples displaying fine lines radiating from its centre of a crystalline form which may be seen in the cystine calculus (Pig- 340). The different layers of a calculus may have the same composition, or differ widely. When the latter, the calculus is known as alter- nating ; but any single layer is generally com- posed of several ingre- dients. “ It is probable,” says Odling, “ that if a very exact analysis were made, each of the layers of nearly every calculus , would be found to con- tain uric acid, alkaline urates, phosphate of lime, and ammonio-phosphatc of magnesia, with or without the other consti- tuents of calculi. More- over, most calculi contain traces of all the salts naturally existing in the urine, as well as colour- ing matter, mucus, &c.” Most calculi are divisi- Additional classes. Calculi in general. Weight. Size. Shape. Colour. Smell. Appearance of section of calculus. Alternating calculi. Fig. 837. Uric acid calculus, with nucleus of oxalate of lime. Prep. 2193. ble into a central portion or nucleus, with an outer portion or body, and occasionally there is an outside crust of phosphate (Fig. 339). The nucleus may be of the same nature or different from the body.