LITHOTOMY. 112 Second step of operation In Key’s operation. Section of prostate. The surgeon having exposed the groove of the director (staff) that is to guide his knife into the bladder, should then proceed to the second step of the operation. For this purpose, when the curved staff is used, he should introduce the forefinger of his left hand into the wound, and feel for the staff behind and to the left of the bulb, and having clearly made out the two edges of the groove and along his nail between them, he should introduce the point of his knife upon the nail of the finger into the groove, and having clearly divided the tissues sufficiently to make him confident that the point of the knife is well into the groove of the staff, complete his deep section by pushing the knife along the groove of the staff into the bladder, lateralising it to divide the left lobe of the prostate and neck of the bladder sufficiently (Fig. 352). This step being performed in Key’s operation as follows : — “ The point of the knife being kept steadily against the groove, the operator with his left hand takes the handle of the director, and ITo. 352. Lateral lithotomy with a curved staff. lowers it till he brings the handle to the elevation described in Fig. 353, keeping his right hand fixed; then with an easy, simultaneous movement of both hands the groove of the director and the edge of the knife are to be turned obliquely towards the patient's left side; the knife, having the proper bearing, is now ready for the section of the prostate; at this time the operator should look to the exact line the director takes, in order to carry the knife safely and slowly along the groove, which may now he done without any risk of the point slipping out.”—Key. “ In the majority of cases it will merely he necessary to pass the knife along the director, and having cut the prostate to withdraw it without carrying it out of the groove, varying the angle according to the age of the patient, the width of the pelvis, and size of the stone. As the direction in which the prostate should be divided, in order to adhere to Cheselden’s operation, is obliquely downwards and outwards, increas-