SURGERY OF k, THE URINO-GENITAL SYSTEM. CHAPTER XX. DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY—STONE—NEPHROTOMY. Malformations of the kidney have more scientific than surgical in- Malforma- terest, yet, they may have an important surgical bearing, for when any the accident from external violence or internal irritation happens to a single “ ' ’ or imperfect organ, the life of a patient is more likely to be jeopardized than when it is normal. In a case recorded in page, 605, vol. i, this fact was illustrated. When a kidney is single, it is usually large, and some- times the form of a horseshoe; when it assumes a central position, with the convexity of the curve downwards, it may be regarded as a double organ, the vessels entering from above in their normal way. A kidney may also hold a position nearer the pelvis, or even lie in the pelvis, and when loosely connected, it may appear in the abdomen as a movable tumour. At times the adult kiduey maintains the lobulated character it possessed in foetal life. The diseases of the kidney are generally regarded as belonging to the General physician, but I need hardly add that a thorough knowledge of renal pathology is as requisite to the surgeon as it is to the medical practi- i^Oney. j tioner, for, without such a knowledge, he will be unable to recognise the different conditions of the urine with its deposits, and to appre- ciate their significance. He will also be unfit to decide upon the pro- priety of an operation of expediency, or to understand the risks of one of necessity; for the existence of kidney disease, as a rule, is enough to debar the surgeon from performing any operation other than that required to save life, and in such operations it renders the prognosis most unfavorable, since it is well known that the chief cause of death after operations is kidney disease, and the worst forms of the disease are undoubtedly due to calculous affections, to vesical and urethral mischief. In all cases of operative surgery the condition of the kidney, as re- cognised by the urine, should be made out, and in disease of the urinary organs a most careful examination is equally required. Nephritis. Inflammation of the kidney associated with suppuration of the organ On nephritis, has long been recognised as a common consequence of the obstructive disease of the urinary passages. But it may occur as a consequence of Causes, local injury, or as an acute attack upon a chronically diseased organ ; as a consequence of pyaemia or other cause. It is also very common as a sequel to Bright’s disease of the kidney—that is, to disease of the secreting glandular structure of the organ—in consequence of some local source of irritation in any part of the urinary passages. Bright’s Vol. ii.