530 TUMOURS OP RONES. Enucleation of tumours. Pulsatile tumours. Osteo- aneurism. Their nature. Treatment. Cysts in bone. tensive to allow of an amputation through the bone, for the hip-joint operation is most fatal and should be performed only when any less severe measure is impossible. In an evident cancer of the lower half of the femur, where amputation is to be performed, it had better be at the hip-joint, though in doubtful cases, the limb may be removedjust above the growth. In the upper extremity, however, where amputation at any of the joints is, as a rule, successful, it is wise in cancerous disease to remove the whole of the affected bone and amputate at the articu- lation above. In periosteal cancers the whole bone should always be removed. Amputation for myeloid and simple tumours are generally successful; and a young woman for whom I amputated the thigh for myeloid disease, in 1861, was still well seventeen years after the operation. If a tumour involve the shaft of a bone, or the extremity of its dia- physis, but not the epiphysis, and the growth appears to be local and probably simple, an attempt should first be made to deal with it locally, to scoop or to turn it out, the more severe measure of excision or amputation being alone bad recourse to should the miuor fail. In the case of the enchondromatous and fibrous tumours of bone, the minor measure is usually successful. In fact, in the treatment of tumours of bone, when the disease can be removed without making any great sacrifice of other parts, the attempt should be made. Amputation as a primary measure should be reserved for clearly cancerous cases or diffused growths, or for such as involve the articular ends of the bones, and, consequently, the joint. Some interesting cases illustrating the advan- tage of excising portions of the long bones when the seat of myeloid . and other tumours, have been recorded by Messrs. Lucas and Morris,. in the tenth vol. of the ‘ Clinical Society’s Transactions.’ Pulsatile tumours of bone are cancerous, as a rule, though they may be aneurismal. Cancerous tumours of the skull are frequently pulsatile, and in one well-marked case I had under care some time ago, in which the frontal bone was the seat of the disease, this pulsatile condition was its early symptom, the swelling being comparatively unnoticed. All pulsatile bone tumours have an interstitial origin and expand the bone, the new growth receiving its impulse from the large arteries that supply it. Gray (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. xxxix) has recorded an example of pulsating myeloid. True cases of osteo- aneurism are rare. Mr. Bickersteth, of Liverpool, has recorded such a case, aud I had the pleasure of examining it carefully with Mr. W. Adams, and reporting upon it to the Pathological Society, vol. xix. It was, undoubtedly, a genuine case of this disease involving the tibia. Mr. Mapother (‘ Dublin Med.-Trans.,’ 1863) has recorded another. These cases are made up of expanded bone from aneurismal dilatation of the vessels of the bone. Treatment.—Pulsatile cancerous tumours of bone, like the non- pulsatile, ought to be treated by amputation; true osteo-aneurisms, of a limited size, when they can be made out, by local extirpation or by destroying them by means of the actual or galvanic cautery, aud when very extensive, by amputation. Dr. Mapother cured his by the actual cautery, and Mr. Bickersteth by amputation. Cysts in bone are occasionally met with, and may be serous, san- guineous, or hydatid. The two former are most commonly met with