281 ON OVARIOTOMY. introduction of the finger between the cyst-walls and the parietal layer of peritoneum. And here some force is perfectly justifiable, for if the adhesions are confined to the abdominal parietes and can be torn through, there is rarely much subsequent danger to be apprehended. Extreme care, however, is required at this stage of the operation. The surgeon should, by the introduction of his finger, make out the extent of the adhesions and test their strength. If they should be found nume- rous and too firm for separation, the operation, at this stage, had better be abandoned and the wound closed; or, should many visceral adhe- sions of a firm character be present, it would be well to follow the same practice, as the latter are much more dangerous than those merely attached to the abdominal walls. It is, indeed, difficult, if not impos- sible, to describe with anything like accuracy what extent or character of adhesions would justify the surgeon in abandoning an operation once begun and then closing a wound. The careful study of reported cases and experience alone, will enable him to decide with certainty upon these points. Yet, as a broad rule it may be asserted, that while parietal adhesions may be fearlessly treated when they can be divided, those connecting the cyst with the viscera and the pelvis should always be regarded with alarm ; and that the amount of force permissible in the treatment of the former class of cases would be quite inexcusable when the viscera are concerned. Wells’s method of emptying the parent cyst, passing one hand into its interior, grasping its back and inverting it, the back part of the cyst being withdrawn through the opening made in its front, is an excellent one. The fear of haemorrhage from the lacerated adhesions should always be present to the surgeon, and the torn surface should be carefully examined with a view to the arrest of any bleeding. Omental adhesions should be particularly examined with care and torn through with caution, for they are very vascular and cannot be treated with too much consideration. As a rule, they should be divided and secured with a fine ligature of silk or carbolised catgut. Their for- cible separation is always bad. Spencer Wells’ forceps (Fig. 409) for holding the omentum whilst the surgeon secures the vessels is invalu- Fig. 409. ' able. Firm band-lilce adhesions may be similarly treated. The ends of each ligature may be cut oft’ and the knot left in. When the incision has been made, and no evidence that adhesions exist between the cyst and the internal abdominal walls, it appears to be an unnecessary practice for the operator to introduce his hand into the abdominal cavity with the view of learning whether they exist or not. Adhesions in front must necessarily be broken down, which can Mode of breaking down adhesions. Care in separating the visceral adhesions. Haemorrhage to be arrested. Omental adhesions.