124 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER. Example. Summary of treatment. Foreign bodies in bladder in male and female. Example. a clean incision of sufficient length to admit the removal of the calculus has to be made into the bladder through the vaginal septum, guided by a director introduced through the urethra. The wound should subsequently be closed by means of stitches, as in vesico-vaginal fistula. I have removed, in this way, a stone two inches long, that formed a complete cast of the contracted bladder with good success. (Pig. 354.) Dr. Aveling and M. Vidal stronglyrecommend this operation, while Marion Sims thinks so well of it as to assert, “ that it is the only j ustifiable operation for stone in the female bladder,’’ and if by the word operation he means a cutting one he is certainly right, for where the urethra has been divided to allow of the removal of stone, incontin- ence is a common consequence. Urethral lithotomy is here mentioned only to be condemned, as any incision into the neck of the female bladder is liable, as has just been said, to be followed by incontinence of urine, half of the cases, as a rule, being so affected. By way of summary, therefore, it may be concluded :— That a stone of moderate size may readily be removed from the female bladder by immediate extraction, and one of larger dimensions by lithotrity and extraction, the patient being fully under the influence of an anaesthetic. That where from the size of the stone, immediate extraction is not advisable, or, from the condition of the bladder litho- trity cannot be performed, vaginal lithotomy is the best operation, while all slow dilatation of the urethra is to be avoided, and all urethral lithotomy condemned on account of the frequency of incontinence of urine as the result of such treatment. For further information and statistics, vide Dr. Aveling, ‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1864; and paper by author, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1864. Foreign Bodies in the Bladder. These are occasionally met with both in the male and female subject. Broken catheters and bougies are probably the most common; but a tobacco pipe, pins, French chalk, slate-pencil, straw, a silver toothpick, penholder, &c., are in the Guy’s Museum recorded as foreign bodies that have been removed from the male bladder, and a bone bodkin-case, a cedar-pencil, and a stiletto from the female. Foreign bodies may, however, obtain access to the bladder through wounds, gunshot or otherwise, or through abscesses connected with bone. Brodie has related a case in which he removed a calculus from a young lady which contained “ a small portion of bone, and two im- perfectly formed human teeth,” doubtless the remains of a blighted ovum; and a second, in which a stone from the female bladder had a hazel nut as a nucleus. When a foreign body remains long in the bladder, it acts as an irritant, and usually becomes rapidly covered with phosphates, as Fig. 354, Calculus, Hal f natural size, removed from the female bladder through the vagina.