DISEASES OF THE BONES. 501 tbe Haversian canals and canaliculi of the bone itself. The exterior of the bone is dense, and derives most of its nourishment from vessels ramifying in the periosteum. The interior of the bone is porous or cancellated, and derives its supply of blood from a distinct nutrient artery which runs in the endosteum, while the capillaries of both anastomose freely through the bone canals. The long bones also are Condition of built up of shafts (diaphyses) and epiphyses; the epiphyses being dis- l)^le“ll° tinct from the shafts during the early years of life, and having their own vascular supply. The shafts and epiphyses are connected toge- ther by means of a layer of epiphysial cartilage, through which, as proved by Professor Humphry, the shafts mainly grow, though inter- stitial expansion has an influence in bone as in other parts. The epiphyses themselves are covered with articular cartilage that derives its nutritive supply from them. These anatomical points thus briefly sketched, are important to remember when the pathological are con- sidered, as most of the peculiarities of bone disease are explicable by’ them. Thus, when a bone is inflamed, it can only be so through its soft .Seat of tissues, its inorganic matter being affected secondarily. The periosteal Jjj |""I'™atioa and endosteal membranes being intimately connected, inflammation originating in one is very liable to extend to the other, and in pro- portion to the nature or amount of this extension will the inflam- mation be periosteal or endosteal, and the affection either periostitis or ostitis. In long bones when disease attacks the shaft, it may become arrested by the epiphysis or epiphysial cartilage, the articular ends of the bones, and, consequently, the joints escaping. In periostitis, however, such a result is not always secured, for the synovial membrane of a joint, in a clinical point of view, may be regarded as a continuation of the periosteum, and pus beneath this membrane may burrow into the neighbouring articulation, or, the inflammation may spread by con- tinuity. With these remarks, the diseases of bones may be considered, dividing them into the inflammatory affections; tumours of bone; atrophy, hypertrophy’, rickets, and mollities ossium. INFLAMMATION OF BONE may be divided into the acute and chronic. The acute may be idiopathic, or the result of some injury—division of Inflammation a bone by operation or compound fracture—and ends in diffused sup- of l,oue* puration and the more or less complete death of the bone. When origi- Acute lorm. nating in the periosteum and not wholly involving the endosteum, the outer surface of the bone may alone die ; when originating in the en- dosteum and not wholly involving the periosteum, the inner portion of the bone may die and the shell escape; the whole bone dying when both membranes have been equally involved, whether commencing in one or the other. The extent and depth of the destruction of bone, or its ‘ necrosis,’ is determined by the extent and intensity of the inflam- matory action, and the degree in which the membranes covering and lining the bone have been involved. Thus on the one hand, Fig. 569, represents the superficial necrosis of the frontal bone of a child, after its exposure from a lacerated wound caused by the gnawing of a ferret, and Fig. 570, a large shell of bone