292 AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. the patella and that of the sartorius muscle. It may, also, doubtless affect other tendons. Whenever it takes place, it can be recognised by the starting of the tendon from its anatomical position, as well as by the pain suffered on putting the muscle into action—the muscle necessarily acting at a disad- vantage. The tendon in most cases may he readily reduced, but the great- est difficulty will be experienced in keeping it in position ; indeed, it is a question whether the sheath of a tendon when fairly ruptured will ever unite or repair, yet the attempt should be made. In a case of dislocation Of peroneus of the peroneus longus tendon, the only treatment that gave perraa- lougus. nent relief was its division, and, what is more, the foot was not visibly weakened by the operation. In 1869, I had under my care, a woman, set. 29, with a well-marked example of dislocation of the peroneus longus tendon. Some ten days before I saw her, when walking, she felt a sudden pain behind the external malleolus, which led her to think she had been struck with a stone. She was at once disabled and expe- rienced severe pain in the part; and on rubbing her ankle at the time, she felt a cord in front of the hone, which slipped in on moving the foot. Since that time any movement of the ankle caused the same cord to appear. When I saw her, by giving the foot the slightest twist the ten- don of the peroneus longus muscle could be readily displaced from its groove behind the external malleolus and made to appear upon the hone, where it could he rolled under the finger. Its reduction was effected by abducting the foot, hut it was kept in its position with great diffi- culty. For this purpose the best means were a good pad of lint fixed over and behind the ankle by means of strapping. I saw her a month after the accident, when she could walk without pain or stiffness; the tendon seemed fixed in its place; but the bandage and pad were applied, and directions given to retain them for a month. I have likewise seen the tendon of the tibialis posticus displaced from behind the inner malleolus. Dislocations of muscles are probably more rare than those of tendons, and if not, are less recognised. They may be suspected to have taken place where after a rick or strain pain is produced when the muscle is put into action and the pain is fixed to a spot; when it is relieved by relaxing the affected muscles and kneading the part with the hand when so relaxed; and when, moreover, there is no external evidence of a bruise to suggest rupture of muscle. These cases should be treated by manipulation after relaxing the muscles, the surgeon with a strong and firm pressure manipulating the part at the seat of pain; subsequently pressure should be applied, and the muscle kept at rest for a sufficient time to allow the injured part to heal. Kupture of Tendons. Rapture of This is more common than rupture of the body of a muscle, tendons tendons. usually giving way at their muscular or bony origin. It occurs chiefly in subjects past middle life. The long biceps tendon not rarely gives at its upper end, and, when it does, it imparts to the biceps muscle on contraction, a peculiar appearance; its inner or cora- coid half contracting into a hard knot (Fig. 413), while its outer re- mains lax and but slightly altered. This swelling has been mistaken for tumour of the muscle of the arm. When the one tendon breaks, the other usually follows at a later date, thereby clearly indicating that