AMPUTATION. 576 Various forms of amputation. The old circular operation. The flap method. Its disadvantage. An advantage. Advantages of transfixion. class of cases after suppuration has appeared; the word intermediate being employed to designate amputations performed twenty-four hours after the accident, but before suppuration has declared itself. This distinction, however, is not a satisfactory one. Some statisticians have classed the secondary amputations with the pathological, but this practice is clearly wrong. The different Modes of Amputation maybe divided into three great classes—1st, the circular; 2nd, the flap operation, whether by transfixion or cutting from without in- wards—Teale’s amputation (consisting of one long anterior skin and muscular flap, and short posterior), being looked upon as a modification of the ordinary flap operation ; 3rd, the mixed form of amputation— skin flap, and circular cut through muscles—Carden’s operation being included in this series. Into one or other of these classes almost every form of amputation may be brought, although practically there are innumerable modifications of each, more particularly of the flap. The old circular, as already described (p. 570), is now fairly aban- doned. It has no advantages over the more modern mixed form of ampu- tation, and will not take the place of the flap where the latter is appli- cable. In small limbs, where there is but little muscular tissue and a single bone to divide, it may be performed, but cannot be recommended. It is more practised abroad than in this country. The flap operation doubtless owes its popularity as much to Liston, Lisfranc, and Velpeau, who were its strong supporters, as to the facility with which it is performed, and the satisfactory appearance of the flaps at the time of the operation. Before anaesthetics were introduced, ex- pedition was of importance, and it was the surgeon’s aim to remove a limb as rapidly as possible. “ The surgeon operating by the watch took off a limb by the flap operation in as many seconds as there were minutes occupied in the old circular method.”—Sir W. Fergusson. Since 1846, however, when anaesthesia came into vogue, this necessity has ceased to exist, and surgeons have been led away more from the flap operation to what may now be described as the mixed. In certain parts, however, the flap operation still holds its ground, and, in a general sense it may be said, that in operations where the shafts of single bones or some joints are involved, it is the best method; while in some localities, as at the shoulder- and hip-joints, it is the only one open to the surgeon. The objections to the flap operation are the large surface that is ex- posed, the danger of puncturing or slitting the main artery of the part, the inconvenience of bleeding, the leaving of the main artery and nerves in one of the flaps, and the disadvantage of a thick muscular flap. The flap amputation has, however, one great advantage, and that is, its capability of innumerable modifications. Thus, both flaps may be made by transfixing—the old plan; both may be made by cutting from with- out inwards; one flap, the anterior, may be made by the latter method, and the second or posterior, by transfixion; or lateral flaps, single or double, or oval flaps, may be made. The advantages of transfixing the flap consist in the rapidity and cleanliness with which the section of the muscles and deeper parts is made; its disadvantages, in the irregularity with which the skin is too