174 HERPES PREPUTIALIS. May be syphilitic. Warts. Treatment of warts. Gonorrhoeal rheumatism. Generally in chronic stage of gonorrhoea. Parts liable to attack. Treatment of rheumatism. Herpes preputialis. When the prepuce becomes cedematous and is long, phimosis takes place; when narrow and retracted behind the glands so as to be irreducible, •paraphimosis. This balanitis should he treated locally by astringents, such as the acetate of lead or the nitrate of silver lotion, v—vj grs. to the ounce, painted on the inflamed part, the phimosis and paraphimosis being treated on general principles. It should be remembered too that a balanitis associated with a rawness or erosion of the glans or prepuce may be due to a syphi- litic inoculation. As a consequence of balanitis, warts are very common which may cover the mucous membrane of the glans and prepuce, or invade the urethra itself. They may grow to a great size, putting on much the appearance of a cancerous penis. I have seen them perforate the prepuce of a penis when phimosis was present. They can only be treated by removal. When extensive, their excision is the best plan, the operation being performed with the patient ansestheticised, the nitrate of silver or perchloride of iron, or the gal- vanic cautery being freely applied to the base of the warty growths. In less severe cases, the warts will often wither if kept dry with the oxide of zinc or the fresh powder of savin. All warts are not, however, gonorrhoeal, but may arise without any such cause even in clean subjects. They are, nevertheless, contagious. In women, they are often found up the vagina, but more frequently at its orifice. Gonorrhoeal rheumatism so called, is an undoubted complication of the disease, explain it as we may. At the end of an attack of clap patients without doubt are often attacked with severe pain and tender- ness of one or more joints, attended with effusion and constitutional disturbance. It may occur with every fresh attack of clap, and I have recorded a case in my hook on the joints, in which it recurred sixteen times after sixteen different attacks of gonorrhoea. Some authors look upon this affection as a species of pyaemia due to the absorption of some morbid matter from the inflamed urethra, hut evidence is still wanting to prove the truth of the theory. It rarely appears during the acute stage of the affection, mostly in the chronic, but arrest of the dis- charge cannot he associated with its appearance. The knees and ankles are the joints mostly involved, yet those of the upper extremities are so at times. The fair-haired and what are called strumous subjects are said to he more prone to the disease, but I cannot say I have observed this. At times the rheumatic pains are more confined to the tendons and muscles; the heels and soles of the feet are also frequent seats. The late Dr. Babington used to say that this form was found only in those who had taken copaiba. Treatment.—In the acute stage, fomentations locally, with or with- out poppy-head decoction, or the extract of opium and the internal use of Dover’s powder, with alkalies, are the best means to adopt. In the more chronic stage the iodide and bromide of potassium with opium appear to have some influence over the disease. It is, however, at all times obstinate. Herpes preputialis. This is a simple affection, which maybe mistaken for chancre,and is