TUMOURS OF BONE. 520 the irritation, and thus tends to spread the disease, and often excites more general inflammation in the bone or endosteum. Excision not Excision of the diseased bone is not an operation that can be highly recom- recommended; yet it may be done, doubtless, with success, as in the mended. tarsus, and many an inflamed or carious os calcis has been successfully excised. Thero is, however, a strong question as to the necessity of the operation. When the bone dies, the necrosed bone may and should be removed, hut in all other conditions, it is reparable under constitu- tional treatment and local applications. Surgeons who interfere sur- gically with carious bones usually prefer excision to any partial opera- tion. Superficial or periosteal caries may be regarded and treated as an indolent ulcer in other parts, the repair being more chronic in bones than in soft tissues, and deep-seated caries or inflammation may be also considered muclfin the same light. When syphilis complicates the case, iodine in full doses, in one of its forms, and as a local application, is of great use, combined with any tonic that may appear to be needed. TUMOURS OF BONE. Tumours of bone. Character. Varieties of tumours. Exostoses. Cranial exostoses. Enostosis. Tumours of hone vary but little in their pathology from tumours of other parts, and whatever differences exist, arise from the peculiarity of the tissue in or around which they grow. Tumours of bone, as of soft parts, partake of the nature of the tissue in which they are developed; thus, a tumour that in a fibrous organ would be more or less fibrous, when originating in or upon a bone is mixed with hone, and a carcino- matous tumour of soft parts becomes a malignant osteoid cancer of a hone. In addition to these, there are special tumours known as the myeloid, and the cartilaginous. Excluding, therefore, enlargements of bone due to inflammation, there are bony outgrowths or exostoses, cartilaginous and myeloid tumours, all being, as a rule, of an innocent nature. There are the osteo-sarcomatous tumours, or fibrous tumours of bone, including those that have a periosteal as well as an osteal origin, the fibrous and osseous elements predominating in various degrees; and, lastly, there are the malignant tumours of bone, whether of the soft or the hard kind, osseous matter being mixed up largely noth both; the disease ac- quiring the name of osteoid cancer when the bony elements pre- dominate. These tumours grow from the periosteum as well as from the hone. Exostoses may grow from almost every hone; from the cranium inside and out, as well as from the hones of the trunk and extremities. Those of the cranium are usually very dense and of ivory-like hardness; indeed they are often called ivory exostoses, and sometimes are so hard that they cannot be removed. They may have broad bases, but at times are'pedunculated, and in singular examples they occur as loose growths; these latter have generally occurred in the frontal sinus and should be described as enostoses. Mr. Hilton has recorded an interesting case (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ vol. i.), in which such a bony tumour, of twenty-three years’ standing (Fig. 582), fell out of a large cavity in the superior maxillary bone (Fig. 581). The man in 1865, thirty years after the operation, was well, although disfigured by the hole in which the tumour had rested; and in a former page (page 14, vol. ii) I have recorded a