411 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. of the escape of tlie cervix from the cavity which it had formed m the reticular tissue of the lower fragment. If the force had not been veiy great the neck of the femur remains wedged in between the trochan- ters, and one or both of these processes are split ofi from the shaft; and if the fibrous structures around the neck of the bone and trochan- ters have not been injured, these broken portions of the trochanters are still held firmly in their places, and the cervix does not become loosened (Fig. 501); but if the force has been considerable, the im- pulse prolonged, the bone in a state of senile atrophy, or if, as fre- quently happens, the patient in endeavouring to rise falls a second time, then, under these circumstances, the trochanters are not only broken from the shaft of the femur, but are so far displaced and separated from their connection with the soft parts that the cavity or socket, as it were, into which the superior fragments has been Fig 501. Fig- 502. Impacted fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, from the museum of my father, the late Mr. T. E. Bryant. Prep. Guy’s Mus., 11875S- Comminuted fracture of the upper part of the thigh-hone, from the neck beiug driven into the shaft. Prep. 119-i, Guy’s Mus. received is destroyed; the impacted cervix thus set free no longer opposes the ascent of the inferior fragment, and the case then presents the characters of the ordinary extra-capsular fracture with great shortening of the limb.” (Fig. 502.) In fact, the ordinary fracture Impaction of the base of the neck of the thigh-bone is primarily au impacted yery general fracture, the impacted bones in some cases being loosened by a second fall, in others by excess of violence received iu the original accident, neck. and in too many by the manipulation of the surgeon in his anxiety to make out the presence of a fracture by the detection of crepitus. Indeed, this seeking for crepitus in cases of fracture is a practice fraught with danger. In fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone it is not only un- Crepitus as i necessary because the diagnosis of the case can be made out without means of it, but it is unjustifiable, as the attempt to find it in every case of diagnosis, impacted fracture is often attended with irreparable mischief.' conoemned. The diagnosis of an impacted fracture is a point of considerable Diagnosis of importance, since it is not to be disputed that the recovery or degree of impacted lameness of many a patient depends upon a correct appreciation of the fracture- value of such symptoms as usually exist in this variety of fracture, and that, too, in a very critical period of the case. Should an