25 SCALD OP THE LABYNX. death resulted in forty-two per cent, when no operation was performed. Statistics of and in twenty-four per cent, when operative measures were resorted °P«auve to • and hence the chances are greatly in favour of the latter practice. operative The foreign body having been removed, the chief danger has passed, interference. There may be some inflammation of the air-passage as a result of the ^ ^ irritation of the foreign body, but this usually subsides on the removal "’™oval of its cause. In exceptional instances it may prove troublesome it not Qj- body, fatal. The nature of the substance has also much influence in.deter- mining this result, smooth bodies being slightly irritating, while jagged are more so. The operation of tracheotomy doubtless does something towards aggravating this condition. Such a complication should be treated on rational principles, but in the majority of instances, the in- flammation will subside spontaneously on the removal of the offending body. Water dressing to the wound, and a warm, moist atmosphere, are the two esseutial points of practice to be followed after the removal of the cause, and, as a rule, convalescence speedily follows. Chloroform ought always to be administered in these cases when operative inter- ference is called for. Scald of the Larynx. This somewhat common accident is engendered amongst the poor (Edema of from the habit of feeding their children out of a teapot. The child, frora when thirsty and alone, being accustomed to drink from the “ spout,” ' tries the same experiment with the kettle of boiling water, and scalds the pharynx and orifice of the larynx so that cedematous inflammation of the part follows, in the same manner as a blister arises by the appli- cation of boiling water or steam to any other tissue. The symptoms caused by such an accident appeal’, as a rule, very speedily, the small chink of the glottis soon closes, and, as a consequence, a fatal result ensues unless early relief can be obtained. In some cases, the mouth, with the soft palate, tongue, and fauces. Symptoms, will be found swollen and vesicated. There will also be difficulty in swal- lowing, and some alteration in the character of the voice. The respira- tion rapidly becomes affected, and a spasmodic croupy cough appears, with stridulous breathing. These symptoms may become gradually or rapidly worse, and may be complicated with attacks of spasmodic dyspnoea, at long or short intervals ; but when these attacks appear, the condition is extremely dangerous, as any spasm may prove fatal. A somewhat similar result may arise from the intentional or accidental swallowing of any corrosive poison or acid, or from the inhalation of a flame. Treatment.—In a fair proportion of these cases little other treat- Treatment, ment than a warm bed, the application of a hot sponge to the larynx. Mild means, and the inhalation of warm moist air, is ever needed; the symptoms subside as rapidly as they appear, three or four days seeing the worst of the case; and, in these mild cases, the laryngeal symptoms are probably never severe. When laryngeal symptoms exist, accom- panied by spasm, the case assumes a threatening aspect; indeed, the first spasm may be the last. I have notes of the case of a child in whom the symptoms were so slight that no anxiety was felt, but a single spasm took place two hours and a half after the accident, and put an end to life. When symptoms are severe, the operation of tracheotomy should be Tracheotomy.