294 AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. Sutures. Prognosis. Inflammation of muscle. Symptoms. In infants. In sterno- mastoid. Rarely suppurate. Treatment. case. Tlie parts should he kept in apposition for at least a month or six weeks, otherwise some stretching of the uniting medium will take place, followed by permanent weakness or deformity. In certain cases of divided tendons, sutures may be introduced, and several cases are on record in which such treatment was successful. In wounds where muscles and tendons unite by granulation, some stiffness and want of power in the part will remain for a long time, or even continuously. But in healthy subjects it is remarkable, how ten- dons at one time fixed, subsequently free themselves from their sur- rounding attachments and become free again. This hope may always he held out to a patient who takes a gloomy view of his own prospects. Inflammation of muscle is a recognised affection, and occurs as a con- sequence of some strain or partial rupture of its fibres, as well as inde- pendently of any such cause. It is the more common as a result of injury, and is seen not seldom in the rectus abdominis as well as in the psoas muscle; indeed, as a cause of psoas abscess, I believe it to be more common than spinal disease. As a result of septicaemia, it is frequently met with; and is found in every muscle, even the heart. It appears as a more or less acute affection of the muscle, and is accom- panied by swelling, local pain and constitutional disturbance; suppu- ration occurs in due time. The symptoms rarely come on directly after the injury, but probably after the lapse of several weeks as a consequence of some want of repair in the injured part, and from the non-observance of the necessary rest which an injured muscle so much requires in the process of healing. When an abscess forms in a muscle the sooner it is opened the better, recovery readily follow- ing, even when the disease is in such a muscular organ as the tongue. Inflammation of muscle as an independent affection is generally chronic, and in adults is chiefly of syphilitic origin. In infants it is met with most commonly as an affection of the sterno-mastoid muscle; the body of the muscle wholly or in part appearing as an indurated mass. It is generally observed soon after birth, and may at times be traced to some injury sustained at that time. I have seen it in the offspring of syphilitic parents, but more frequently when no such history could be obtained. In fifteen consecutive cases, a syphilitic history was obtained only in one. These cases rarely if ever suppurate in infants, but, under the use of warm fomentations and some simple tonic, such as cod-liver oil, proceed to a natural recovery. I have never seen a case fail to recover by these means. In the early period of the disease, the inflammatory product is cellu- lar ; in the later fibrous. These points are seen in the drawings 414 and 414a, which have been kindly made for me by Dr. Goodhart. They were taken from a patient of Dr. F. Taylor’s, set. 5 weeks, who looked healthy, but bad had “ snuffles,” slight Assuring of the anus, and super- ficial ulceration of the scrotum. There was no history or other evidence of syphilis in the parents. The child died from atelectasis. The tumour in the left muscle was only noticed in the fifth week after birth, and the right muscle was never noticed to be diseased. The case is reported in the * Path. Soc. Trans.,’ 1875, vol. xxvi. The student should remember that this affection appears as a simple