AMPUTATION. 578 The flap operation. Preliminary treatment. Instruments. First tray. Second tray. Assistants. Their duties. ' Operating table. The Flap Operation. The surgeon having decided upon the operation, and obtained the consent of the patient or of his friends to its performance, should see, unless time presses, that any faecal accumulation is removed by either a mild aperient or an enema administered thirty-six hours beforehand, and that as good a meal as the patient can take be given four or five hours before the time fixed for the operation. The meal should be of meat, where possible, with some stimulant, or, when solids are not acceptable, of a mixture of milk, egg, and brandy ; for, assuming that chloroform or some aueesthetic is to be administered, it is essential, to guard against sickness, and to have the process of digestion fairly completed beforehand, since vomiting is more prone to take place with a full than an empty stomach. The part to be operated upon should be well washed previously, and, when much hair is present, also shaved before the patient is placed upon the operating table. All instruments and dressing appliances should be arranged out of the patient’s sight before the time of the operation, and a sufficient number of assistants provided and special duties allotted to them. Thus, on one tray there should be a tourniquet or elastic bandage to prevent haemorrhage, and good torsion forceps to twist, or ligatures to tie the vessels; amputating knives of sufficient length and size, with a bis- toury or catlin to divide the soft parts, and saw and bone forceps for the treatment of the bone; a tenaculum should likewise be at hand to take up vessels that have retracted; there should be also a pair of scissors, and a linen retractor. The torsion forceps I employ (Fig. 120) are as good for taking up an artery to tie as for twisting. On a second tray every appliance for the dressing of a stump should be arranged, such as suture needles armed with waxed silk, wire, or carbolised catgut; strapping cut into sufficient lengths and breadths; lint for pads or dressings, and splints when applicable; a can for hot water to heat the strapping should not be omitted; hot and cold water in abundance, clean sponges supplied by the surgeon, w’ell washed in iodine water and squeezed dry, and soft towels so arrangedas to bealways at the surgeon’s command during the operation, must be provided. With respect to assistants, one to give the anaesthetic is a necessity, and, when possible, he should be an expert to whom the surgeon can resign his patient with confidence, as it is trying and somewhat risky for the operator when otherwise engaged, to have an eye to the anaes- thetist. A second is wanted to hold the limb above and to command the artery of the limb to be amputated; a third to hold the limb below till it is removed, and subsequently, to sponge and help to twist or tie the vessels ; while a fourth is of essential service in amputation of the thigh and leg to hand the instruments, sponge, or to do what may be required, &c. They should be placed as shown in Fig. 609. The nurse should be near to take aw7ay and clean all sponges as they are used, and to replace them with others, squeezed quite dry. When the operation has to be performed by daylight the table should be placed where the best light can be obtained, and when by candle- light, sufficient provision must be made. A good operating lamp is of great use, as well as a hand-glass to throw light upon any one part. The operating table should be narrow and steady, a kitchen table with flaps being the best, and is always available. In hospitals, there ought always to be a special table.