AFFECTIONS OF BTJKSiE MUCOSiE, GANGLION, ETC. 303 was infiltrated with serum which was subsequently absorbed, and the bursa did not reappear. What has been described as taking place in the bursa over the Otherseats of patella may occur in other parts, and more particularly over the ole- ^ursa:. cranon process, where an enlargement of the bursa goes by the name of the “ miner’s elbow.” I have, however, seen them over the acromion process in men who carry timber; over the tendon of the extensor triceps muscle of the thigh in a woman who habitually started her sewing machine with the knee; over the tuberosity of the ischium in Spitalfield’s weavers (“ weaver’s bottom ”), and in Thames lightermen; over the dorsum of the foot in extreme cases of talipes equino-varus when the children walked upon the part; over the external malleolus in tailors; over the malleoli and also the instep from the pressure of a boot; over the great trochanter of the femur in a soldier from pressure caused by sleeping on a board; and last, but not least, over the hall of the great toe in cases of “ bunion,” and in the sole of the foot over the heads of the metatarsal hones in men who walk much with short shoes, or with some who have contraction of the extensor tendons of the toes. Bursae will, however, enlarge or form wherever there is pressure, the enlargement being in a measure compensatory to save deep tissues. Yet this rule, does not hold good always, for I have seen more than one'instance in which enlarged bursae existed over the knuckles of the first phalangeal joint of the bands without any such cause. Treatment.—In the early crepitating stage of effusion, the removal Treatment, of all pressure and the application of a blister are, probably, sufficient to effect a cure, and, in more advanced stages, the repeated appli- cation of blisters is often sufficient to excite absorption of the effused fluid and recovery. When these means fail and the walls of the bursa are thin, the cavity may be tapped and the parietes of the cyst firmly Tapping, pressed together by means of a pad and strapping. When the walls are indurated, this treatment is useless; but a cure may generally be effected by the introduction of a seton which should be kept in till suppuration is freely established. In more solid cysts, none of these l means are of use, and excision is the only sound practice, the surgeon Excision. making his incision over the outer border of the bursa in order that - the cicatrix may be out of harm’s way. In some few instances where Injection. tapping has proved ineffectual, the cyst may be injected with twenty i drops of the compound tincture of iodine in a drachm of water as in •, hydrocele. When blood has been effused into the bursa from a blow, k as indicated by its sudden increase, a free incision into the cyst and the Incision, it: evacuation of the clots may be expected to be followed by a recovery; but this should only be done when its absorption does not take place by i natural processes. When loose or pedunculated bodies exist in a bursa Removal of - and cause distress, they may be removed by means of a free incision loose bodies, i through its walls. Synovial Bursae. An enlargement of a synovial bursa is a far more serious affection than that which has been just described; as these bursae are situated I about tendons or muscles, the articular extremities of bones and : oints, and in many instances, indeed, have direct communication with oints. Deep bursa l)p|i upr h There is a deep bursa beneath the deltoid muscle which, when in- deltoid.