TUBERCULAR DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 206 has generally become too well organised for future absorption, and when this is the case, the subsequent contraction of the organised product will almost to a certainty go on to the destruction of the seminiferous tubuli, and an atrophy of the gland. In Guy’s Hos- pital Museum are several admirable specimens exhibiting this result. Again, in certain examples of chronic orchitis, whether syphilitic or otherwise, suppuration and disintegration of the gland structure will take place. This termination may be suspected when the disease is of a very torpid character, the pain of a constant aching kind, and when all treatment fails to influence its course. Pus depots to When pus has formed, its early evacuation is the best practice, as be opened, a clean incision or puncture into the part often prevents that destruc- tion of the glandular structure and its fibrous covering which usually precedes that troublesome affection, hernia testis. On Tubercular Disease of the Testicle. On tubercular disease of testis. of miliary tubercle, Tubercular disease of the testicle may attack any part of the organ —that is, either the seminal gland or its duct—or it may affect these parts separately or together. It may show itself either in the form of an infiltration of the so-called miliary tubercles, or in the more distinct When in form an(^ usual condition of the yellow, cheesy, unorganisable material de- 1 scribed as crude tubercle. When it appears in the form of miliary tubercle, it is not characterised by any very definite symptoms; indeed the infiltration of a gland with those small, grey, miliary bodies seldom makes itself known by any outward visible signs, and their presence should be suspected only when a rapid disorganisation of the part takes place, after an attack of acute or chronic inflammation. Organs thus infiltrated have no power of resisting the inflammatory process, and, whether it be a lung or a testicle which is the seat of this affection, active breaking up of tissue with suppuration generally ensues. I shall exclude from present consideration those interesting cases, remembering that pathologically they are clearly to be recognised, while practically their presence can only be suspected when the result to which I have already alluded takes place. The other form of tubercular testis is characterised by more special symptoms and local conditions. It may involve, as already stated, either the body of the gland or the epididymis, but, doubt- less, the latter is the more frequently diseased. It is generally discovered accidentally by the patient, and frequently not until some secondary change in the structure is about to show itself. It appears primarily as an indolent, painless enlargement of the epi- didymis, and is described usually by the patient as a lump in the testicle, this lump appearing generally at the upper part. This symptom, in all probability, is the only one to which attention can be drawn, and the surgeon will recognise it at once on manipulation, for the tubercular matter will feel as if some foreign body, as a pea, bean, or nut, had been placed between the convolutions of the epididymis, or in the substance of the gland. The gland is not painful on pressure, nor in its inactive stage does the disease seem to cause any injurious influence on the organ, which is otherwise natural in its sensation and function. In other cases, the disease will appear as a general infiltration of the When in form of crude tubercle. Symptoms.