43 TAPPING THE CHEST. process as to call for surgical interference, the pus must be let out, by means of a free opening, the opening being large enough to permit of the free escape of all fluid, and the ingress and egress of all air, for the ad- mission and retention of air in a suppurating cavity will almost cer- tainly end in decomposition. The introduction of drainage-tubes by M. On drainage- Chassaignac has consequently been of great service in the treatment of tu )es' empyema. Dr. Goodfellow and Mr. De Morgan have been their chief Their advocates in this country, the latter surgeon passing the perforated advocates, india-rubber tube through the canula upon a long iron probe, and bringing it out of a second opening in the lower and posterior part of the chest, this second opening being made with a scalpel upon the extremity of the probe pressed against the lower intercostal space. The perforated tube consequently passes as a seton through the chest and allows the free escape of any fluid in its cavity. This opera- tion, however, has its dangers. My friend Dr. Sutton informed me of a case in which it was performed for empyema and pneumothorax, and, a few days after, emphysema appeared about the wound, which spread over the whole body and destroyed life. 1 have never adopted this practice in the way here detailed. Not advised, being satisfied with a free opening into the thorax, either with a scalpel or large trocar and canula, and the subsequent introduction of a drainage-tube or elastic catheter into the thorax, either through the canula or otherwise, and the subsequent daily washing out of the cavity with a solution of iodine, or, subaqueous drainage may be employed. In May, 1875, I followed the former practice in the case of a gentle- man, act. 87, whom I saw with Dr. Rowlands, of Carmarthen, and drew off three quarts of pus from his left chest through a free opening, and subsequently passed a drainage-tube into the cavity. In three months, convalescence ensued, and in another month, he was quite well, the lung on the affected side having expanded. Indeed, I quite coincide with Dr. Goodhart (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.’), 1877, that “if drainage is decided upon nothing short of perfect drainage is safe for the patientj” and to this end the opening into the thorax must be free, and the cavity of the chest kept well emptied either by irrigation or by what has been described as subaqueous drainage, which should be carried out as follows:—“ Having determined on the spot at which Sub-aqueous puncture of the chest is to be made, a trocar and canula are taken, the dlaill«i:e. bore of which is about five millimetres. A length of several feet of black or red india-rubber tubing, which will slip easily through the canula, is placed ready at hand; the chest is then tapped and the trocar withdrawn, and as the fluid comes in full stream by the canula, the india-rubber tubing is pushed along the latter into the chest as far as necessary—usually four or five inches. The canula is then withdrawn over the tube, leaving the one end of the latter in the chest, while the other or free end is kept under water by the side of the bed. The tube then acts as a syphon.” This plan of drainage is not, however, very complete, for out of 30 cases in which it was employed, as reported by Dr. Goodhart, in 18 im- perfect drainage had to be recorded; and as this is a method which pro- fesses to drain away pus, it cannot be said to have proved successful. In young people where the ribs are elastic, good results may "be looked for; but in the old, where the ribs are rigid, no contraction cau be expected.