TUMOURS OP BONE. 521 case of the same affection and figured it (Figs. 306—7). These bony growths are<more common about the orbit and air-cells of the head than elsewhere. True ivory exostoses of these parts do, however, occur, and at times attain a large size. Birkett has related (‘ Guy’s Rep.,’ 1868) such a case of Dr. V. Bruns’, in which an ivory tumour of seventy-four years’ existence, weighing ten pounds, grew from the occipital bone of a man, set. 80. Exostoses from the jaws, or rather alveoli, are often called “ epulis.” Fig. 581. Fig. 582. Tumour as discharged from cavity in Fig. 581, weight nearly 15 oz., circumference 11 by 9 inches. Mr. Hilton’s case. Prep. Guy’s Mus., 166648. Exostoses on the extremities are not uncommon and are apt to Exostoses spring from the point of junction of the shaft with the epiphysis, on the (Virchow considering this as the usual seat), and at the attachment extremities. of muscles. They are mostly outgrowths of bone capped with carti- lage by which they grow (Fig. 583); exostoses, however, of long standing have an osseous shell. They have at times broad bases, Fig. 583. but more frequently narrow pe- duncles. They are often curved l j or crested, assuming odd shapes, and may grow to a large size. In exceptional instances, they may die or necrose without any known cause, and as a result of mJT i • accident they may be broken >.,< -->/ from their attachment. I have Tlleir frac* seen this in an outgrowtli from ture- the femur of a girl, set. 12, ^ who received a kick from a Vjv > donkey; and, in a second case, a patient of Mr. Birkett’s, with Exostosis of the femur, an exostosis of the tibia. When broken off from their bony attachments they may in exceptional in- stances wither, but, as a rule, they will again adhere. In a patient of Mr. Maunders, in whom an exostosis of the femur was subcutaneously separated from the bone, adhesion took place, although at a better angle At times, exostoses are multiple. In a girl, set. 16, I found exostoses e“£