180 ON LOCAL VENEREAL DISEASES. In infecting chancres. Diagnostic value of bubo. Simple adenitis In simple futile. The disease within the lymphatic system is the same, and runs a similar course as that upon the surface of the body.” The bubo associated with the simple non-infecting sore is the direct result of the absorption of the specific pus, the matter in the interior of the gland retaining its specific characters, whilst that outside the gland is ordinary non-specific pus. As the disease advances, however, the two fluids mix, and the whole acquires the characters of the specific fluid, the surface of the sore about the glands becoming in this way inoculated. In the infecting and syphilitic chancre, the enlargement of the glands is usually indolent, and unconnected with suppuration. It appears within the first or second week of the inoculation, and many glands are usually involved, forming hard, indolent, painless swellings. In exceptional cases, however, where the sore is a source of local irrita- tion, suppuration of the glands may take place—the suppurating bubo in the course of the constitutional symptoms being no rare event. The presence or absence of suppuration in the inguinal glands is not therefore evidence of any positive value as to the existence or non- existence of a syphilitic affection. It may, however, be stated that a local sore on the penis associated with an adenopathy, which passes rapidly on to suppuration, is in all probability a local and not a syphi- litic affection, while a local sore with a simple induration of the glands is in all probability a syphilitic inoculation. In every form, therefore, of chancre, though more frequently in the local sore, simple adenitis or sympathetic bubo may be met with as a result of local irritation, which differs in no respect from the adenitis of any other local organ. One or more glands may be in- volved in the action, and suppuration may be acute, subacute, or chronic. In the simple local sore it is usually acute. As a rule, too, the sore formed by the venereal bubo, unlike that resulting from simple adenitis, instead of healing kindly, often takes on very much May ulcerate, the appearance of the local disease; the edges ulcerate, the opening enlarges, and a large sore is formed; indeed, from this action, the serpiginous sore, to which allusion will be made, often takes its origin. At times the bubo puts on a pbagedamic action and spreads fearfully. In rare cases, the glands are said to enlarge without any local lesion, this chronic enlargement being followed by syphilis. I have, how- ever, never seen a marked instance of this, and in reputed cases, have suspected the former existence of some overlooked local sore or fissure. Mr. Cock does not recognise the affection. Treatment.—There is nothing to be gained by suppuration of the ino-uinal glands, for even when associated with syphilis, the poison is not eliminated by such means, and when due to some simple local source of irritation is only an additional cause of annoyance. To endeavour to prevent suppuration is, consequently, a wise course, which can best be done by rest and the local application of co < in the form of ice in a bag, or lotions of lead, muriate of ammonia, or spirit. When suppuration is threatening or cannot be retarded, vvarm fomentations are the best, and as soon as pus has formed a tree inci sion should be made, followed by warm-water dressing or a poultice. A vertical incision, as a rule, is the best, but when the abscess is lar,re the opening should be made in the long axis. The application Bubo d'emblee. Treatmeht of bubo. Incision.