Local. Symptoms o the diffused form. Melon-seed bodies. 308 AFFECTIONS OF BTTKSiE MTJCOSAD, GANGLION, ETC. dons at the wrist appear to be the cystic transformations of the celb enclosed in the fringe-like processes of the synovial membrane of the sheaths . . . Sometimes they are distended with serous fluid; at other times their contents possess a gelatinous or even a honey-like consis- tency, which constitute a form of meliceris. Under some circumstances free fibro-cartilaginous-like bodies, irregularly shaped, composed of a compact connective substance, form in considerable numbers, more especially in the ganglionic enlargement of the synovial bursa which surrounds the flexor tendons of the fingers at the wrist.”—Paget, Surg. Path.’ The localised form of ganglion is more common on the dorsal aspect of the wrist than anywhere else, although not rarely it is connected with the flexor tendons; and appears as a globular or irregularly cystic, tense swelling of the part. At times, it is very hard, at others, fluctuat- ing and soft. When of good size, it may be translucent. Pressure upon it to any extent causes pain, severe pressure sickening pain, even faint- ing and vomiting. Those in the palm of the hand about the head of the metacarpal bones are the most painful. At times, ganglion is painless, causing only some weakness of the wrist. A large ganglion occasionally forms behind the external malleolus connected with the peronei tendons. It should be touched with care. The diffused or compound ganglion varies in its symptoms according to the number of tendons involved. When one only is affected it may appear as a deep-seated, fluctuating, irregular swelling in the course of the tendon, the amount of swelling and deformity depending entirely upon its size. The swelling, when many tendons are involved, will be diffused; but when the whole of the flexor tendons are implicated it will occupy both the palm of the hand and the forearm above the wrist. In the case illustrated in Fig. 418, taken from a woman, set. 49, sent to me by Dr. Lovegrove, now of Hythe, all the flexor tendons Fig. 418. Ganglion involving all the flexor tendons of hand and wrist. were involved to an extreme degree. In such cases as these, the foreign bodies, commonly called “ melon-seed or rice-like” bodies, are usually present. They may frequently be made out to exist by the surgeon when ascertaining the presence of fluctuation from above and below the annular ligament of the wrist by firm pressure alternately applied in this direction, the pressure exciting a peculiar rough scrooping sensa- tion, caused by these loose bodies passing along the theoe of the tendons beneath the ligament.