ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 318 Friction, &c. Extension by strapping. By splint. of congenital or infantile talipes, when the foot can he brought into its normal position with but little force, a cure without operation can with some confidence be promised. In the very simplest cases, mere friction of the affected limb and the daily extension of the contracted tendons is often enough to effect a cure, the nurse or parent holding the crooked foot for some ten or fifteen minutes two or three times a day in the required position. In the next class of cases, which are slightly worse than the last, in which the foot can he brought with gentle force into its natural place, a cure can he effected by means of strapping adjusted in the fashion depicted below (Fig. 424). The strapping must he of a firm nature; that spread on linen being the best, as made by Messrs. Gerrard and Co., or Leslie, and used at Guy’s. The first piece acts as a kind of splint, and the second by binding down the first to the ankle, admits of any amount of force required to bring the foot in or out, ac- cording to the nature of the case. In a still more severe form, where the former method is inapplicable, a small tin splint covered with leather with a screw hinge at the ankle, such as that advised by Little, Fig. 424. Mode of stretching foot in talipes varus by strapping. Fig. 425. Tenotomy. When necessary. or made for myself by Millikin, of St. Thomas’s Street, may he employed, the foot being forcibly brought into the required position and fixed there by strapping (Fig. 425). In the worst forms, where, by no ordinary force the foot can be brought into the required position, the division of the shortened tendon, tendons, or fascia should be performed, no more structures being divided than are absolutely essential. “ When deciding on the necessity of operation, the surgeon must not be guided solely by the external configuration, but by the amount of firm resistance opposed to restoration, by the depth of the furrows existing in the sole and behind and above the heel, and by the degree of tension of the integuments above the internal malleolus. The deep clefts or furrow's in question denote intensity of contraction of muscles, and closer adhesion than usual of integuments and fascia to the subjacent soft structures and bones. They probably denote, also.