600 AMPUTATIONS OP THE FOOT Amputation of leg. Amputation of the foot. Principle to be followed. Hancock’s views. it being fairly proved, that the larger the section of the shaft of a bone the greater the liability to blood-poisoning. Amputations of expediency in the leg are as dangerous as those for injury. This operation in the upper two thirds is, doubtless, best per- formed by the mixed method, by two skin lateral flaps and the circular division of the muscles, as already described (Fig. 616). When the condition of the soft parts forbids such an operation, other flaps may he made, any form being allowable to avoid sacrificing more of the limb than is necessary. In the lower third of the leg, Teale’s amputation is good, the long anterior flap not being too long or so liable to slough. The long muscular flaps, and more particularly the posterior calf flap, cannot be recommended. In the lateral flap operation, Mr. Cock, who always includes the muscles and makes the flaps long, turns out excellent stumps. Some surgeons, in this mixed method, make anterior and posterior skin flaps, hut they possess no advantage over the lateral; while the anterior flap, falling over the edge of the tibia, is apt to slough or to form unpleasant adhesions. In dividing the tibia, its anterior edge should be rounded off with the saw. Amputations of the Foot. In no part of the body has an improvement in surgery shown to greater advantage than in the foot, for in none has so much been done in the way of conservatism. Where formerly amputation of the whole foot was common, we have now Hey, Chopart, Syme, Pirogoff, the subastragaloid, and Hancock’s operations, all based upon the well- established position that governs, or ought to govern, all amputations, viz. that no more of the body should be removed than the necessities of the individual case require, or, in other words, upon the principle of “the least sacrifice of parts.” To amputate a foot where anything less would suffice, in the present age. is regarded as almost criminal, and surgeons generally accept Hancock’s well-put question, in his valuable lectures at the College in 1866, “ Can anything he more unphilosophical than to advocate the sacrifice of any hone or joint of the foot for no other reason than that a particular operation should be performed ?*’ (‘Lancet,’ 1866.) Indeed, this principle of practice should be upper- most in the mind of every surgeon called upon to treat any local disease, and in the hand and foot it should he so pre-eminently. Accepting it, therefore, Hancock’s three other dicta necessarily follow. That we should perform our operation as close to the disease or damaged structure, and preserve as much of the foot as we possibly can do with safety to our patient. That, where practicable, we should cut through the tarsal bones with a saw in preference to disarticulating them. That we should avoid the destruction of parts whenever we can do so. These views of Hancock accord so closely with those I have attempted to lay down as guides to the surgeon in the surgery of other parts of the body, that I have given them in his own woi’ds, and placed them as leading principles of practice in the surgery of the foot. I believe them to be of no less scientific than practical value, and desire that the