EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. 483 to be an operation of expediency and not of necessity ? We want Is excision of facts to prove this fully; but, as far as present experience goes, it ^oneoV0 seems to show that, if the operation is to be a successful as well as expediency? a general one in surgery, it must be undertaken at a somewhat earlier period of disease than that at which the question of amputation has to be mooted; that it should be performed before surgical fever has reduced the powers of the patient, and complete disorganiza- tion of the joint has taken place. In fact, it should not be practised When when an operation is demanded to save the life of a patient, excision for under such circumstances a better chance is given by ampu- practised0' b° tation, but when the local disease is found to be steadily progress- when ing in spite of treatment, and disorganization is threatening. As advisable, a substitute for amputation undertaken in extreme disease to save Summary of life, facts tell against the practice; as an operation of expediency to results, gain time, the few facts we possess tell in its favour. For my own part, I am disposed to think, that under these circumstances there seems to be some hope that excision may not only be a successful, but also a justifiable operation, and that it will not necessitate an in- creased risk to the life of the patient. In doubtful cases, amputation is the more desirable as it is the safer operation; and since the great object of our profession is to prolong and save life, other objects ought always to be subsidiary to this great aim. In acute suppuration of the knee, excision is never successful. Excision for gunshot wounds has Excision in been proved to be most unsatisfactory; indeed, as a practice in such acute cases, it seems hardly justifiable. In compound dislocation it has been for^uusho” successful. Canton and M. Spillmau have published such cases, but wounds, upon the whole, the evidence we possess is not much in its favour in In compound traumatic cases. Resection in cases of deformity as a consequence of dislocation, disease is probably a better field for the operation; and Drs. Barton and Buck, of New York, have demonstrated its value. The operation.—The best incision is that practised by Fergussou, and °n die suggested by Park; a straight one across the joint below the patella from ^l^'ion'off the 'posterior edge of one condyle to the corresponding part of the other, the lame. When the tissues over the knee are bad, the incision may be curved, forming a flap. The old HshaPe(i incision is now rarely practised. Humphry follows Mackenzie in making the semi-circular incision with the convexity downwards, and Bickerstetli, of Liverpool, makes a vertical incision on the inner side of the patella. The joint should be opened at once by dividing the ligamentum patellae and the capsule of the joint, an assistant flexing the leg fully upon the thigh, thereby facilitating this part of the operation. The soft parts ought then to he turned back off the patella and that bone removed, there being no object in leaving it, but many reasons for its removal. The joint having been freely exposed by the division of the lateral and other ligaments, and by the forcible projection of the condyles, the lower two thirds of the carti- laginous extremity of the femur is to be excised, care being taken not to injure the popliteal vessels which lie in close contact behind; the whole of the epiphysis should not be removed. This section should Section of the be made completely at right angles to the shaft of the bone. bolies- The articular surface of the tibia must then be dealt with in the same way, no more of the bone being removed than is ne- cessary. To do this, the bow saw known as Butcher’s is the best, the section being made from behind forwards. In both hones, when