DISEASES OF ELBOW-JOINT. 461 the best practice is probably the removal of the bone; and, when this is not advisable or practicable, the coccygeal muscles had better be divided by a subcutaneous incision to give rest to the joint, but under these circumstances, the cure must be slow. The pains of sacro- coccygeal joint disease are much simulated by what Sir J. Simpson described (‘ Med. Times,’ 1859) as coccydynia, which is met with in women when any of the coccygeal muscles are brought into action by walking, running, rising, defecating, or sneezing. This affection may he cured by the subcutaneous section of the coccygeal muscles. Diseases of the Joints of the Upper Extremity. Diseases of the sterno-clavicular joint.—Suppuration of this joint in Diseases of pysemia is common, though as an independent disease it is very rare. ^aricular" I have seen but two examples of it, which ended in disorganization. j0;nt. In syphilitic subjects, however, inflammation about the joint is not unfrequent, but such cases rarely suppurate. The disease when it occurs is easily recognised, the joint being superficial. Disease between the sternal segments has been recorded by Hilton. I have seen but two examples of it, and both were complicated with sub-sternal abscess and necrosis. Local pain increased on pressure, and the movement produced on coughing, with swelling, indicate the disease. Diseases of the Shoulder-Joint are comparatively rare, and form a very small proportion of the Diseases of joint cases admitted into a hospital, the majority of such cases Ml® shoulder- being treated outside. Synovitis, however, in all its forms, is found in svnovjtig this joint as well as cases of articular ostitis, &c. The joint has no ' special disease. When disorganization and suppuration take place, the matter bur- Suppuration, rows down the bicipital groove and generally makes its appearance in front of the insertion of the deltoid muscle; at times, however, it hursts posteriorly or burrows beneath the pectoral muscle. If recovery take place with anchylosis, a wonderfully useful Anchylosis, limb is often secured, the scapula allowing an amount of movement which is sufficient for most of the duties of life, though it rarely admits of any overhanded action. When disease takes place at the junction of the upper epiphysis and shaft, and suppuration follows, the abscess burrows in the same way, and much difficulty may be expe- rienced in the diagnosis of the case, although the thickening about the neck of bone under these circumstances is generally greater than in joint trouble. When inflammation of the bursa placed beneath the deltoid muscles exists, some of the symptoms of sboulder-joint disease are present, but the fact that the least action of the deltoid muscle excites pain in bursal disease when the movement of the arm by the surgeon does not, and that the joint moves freely although possibly attended with a sense of crepitation, ought to suggest its nature, Diseases of the Elbow-joint are of great importance, as the value of the hand is greatly de- pendent upon the integrity of the elbow, and a stiff elbow-joint is a serious detriment. In their general pathology they are the same as any other joint.