ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. 541 In modern warfare where the rifle bullets are of a cylindro-conoidal form (Pig. 600), soft parts are more readily penetrated and bones more generally split or splintered than was found, of old, from the impact of round balls. In the late Franco-German war these points were generally observed, and although the Prussian and Bavarian balls were said to be larger than those of the French, the wounds produced by all were very much alike; if anything, however, the wound from the needle-gun produced the wider tract and larger opening. Indeed, in the “seton wounds,” or wounds penetrating the soft parts Penetrating alone, of all these balls it was often difficult to make out the wound ot "oun 3' entrance from the wound of exit. When they traversed the soft parts alone, they often ran so cleanly through them, that only slight suppura- tion followed and repair was rapid; these modern balls causing less severe lesions of the soft parts than the old spherical balls. Billroth asserts that wounds with split-like exits were remarkable for the amount of suppuration that followed. When bones were struck, no matter Comminution what the form of ball, the injury was alike; there was comminution, of boue- vertical splintering, and at times almost pulverisation. Indeed, in civil life there is nothing like the splintering and comminution of bones seen in wounds from rifle bullets. The amount of alteration in form which the projectiles assume after striking a bone is very remarkable—some being completely flattened, others strangely contorted, while many are split. Dr. Knester, of the Augusta Hospital, Berlin, however, has proved by experiment (1874), that the amount of injury the bones and soft parts sustain in a gunshot wound depends much upon the softness or hard- ness of the bullet—a hard one going through a part and leaving a “ seton wound,” where a soft one would produce frightful destruction of tissue. He explains this fact by the lead of the softer bullets becoming heated by collision with bone and broken up (not melted). The Martini-Henry bullet is a hard one and made of twelve parts hard lead, and one tin. The Chassepdt and the others are all made of soft lead, and consequently break up and flatten out against bone, thereby causing large apertures of exit and great laceration of tissue. When the head of a bone is struck it is probably comminuted. When bones are not broken but only bruised, acute periostitis and Bruising of endostitis are very common, the concussion of the bone being generally bone, so severe as to excite acute action. With the rifle-ball the course is more frequently direct than with Course of that from the old smooth-bored musket. Tortuous courses are even rifle ball, now met with, but less frequently, the weight of the ball and the ex- treme velocity with which it flies producing a more direct route. It penetrates the soft tissues in a direct line, and when it strikes bone either runs through or splinters it, entering it like a wedge. It will often appear, writes Longmore, that the track of a bullet, even at full speed, is widely removed from a straight line. But it usually is not difficult to reconcile the apparent irregularity in the course the projectile has taken if the many varied positions in which the body and its parts are liable to be placed are called to mind, and if, when making the examination, the surgeon takes care to place the patient in a similar position to that he was in when struck. The injury imparted to soft parts by what are called spent balls or spen^bails.