ON HIP DISEASE. 451 the joint itself depends; and clinically, there is good reason to believe that such can frequently be done. In the hip-joint it may be difficult, possibly more difficult than it is in disease of other articulations that are not so well covered in with soft parts, such as the knee; but it can be made out with care and discrimination even in the hip. And here it may be well to consider the clini- cal features upon which our diagnosis should be determined. Diagnosis. The necessity of making'a correct and early diagnosis of hip disease scarcely requires il- lustration, and did not daily ex- perience indicate that it is not sufficiently recognised, there would be no occasion to dwell upon it. The early symptoms of the affection, consequently, are important. When a child after injury to the hip has joint pain and possibly Symptoms of limps, and these symptoms persist after all external evidence of injury *"P disease, has passed away, there is some reason to suspect the presence of joint mischief; and when this pain is increased by inter-articular pressure, by means either of the hand applied over the trochanter or by the patient standing or walking, the suspicion should be strengthened. When swelling of the parts can be made out, and some bulging of the synovial membrane, as shown by a fulness behind the trochanter and m the groin, is found to exist combined with tenderness, synorial inflammation is rendered probable; and when persistent pain without effusion is the more prominent symptom, aggravated by firm inter- articular pressure, bone mischief is indicated. When these symp- toms appear after some fever or illness, or, indeed, without any such cause, they are of no less importance, although, probably, they are more liable to be overlooked. As a clinical point of primary importance, all joint pain, and parti- Pain as a cularly hip-joint claims attention, and when this is referred to the symptom, knee, the surgeon must not be misled. Limping of any kind always Limphw indicates something wrong—probably very wrong—more particularly when combined with joint pain, aggravated by inter-articular pres- sure. Spasm of the muscles around the joint is a symptom of great significance and a means that nature adopts to ensure immobility o*f the nlusdes^ affected articulation ; in some cases, it will be so severe as to forbid all movement, but in others less marked; at one time it will be con- fined to one group of muscles such as the flexors, when the position of the limb will be determined, while at others, the rotators or adductors will be affected; but whenever it is met with, there is pro- bably some affection of the joint itself, or of the bones that enter into its formation. When doubt exists as to muscular spasm bein°- the cause of joint immobility, chloroform should be used, as all spasm Fig. 531. Separation of epiphysis forming the head of femur. Guy’s Mus. Prep. 1315s0.