75 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. A physical examination of a patient labouring under this disease will probably reveal a bladder more or less distended; and the passage of a catheter even after the patient has to the best ot his belief, emptied his bladder, will prove the presence of several ounces of urine which may be ammoniacal; this change in the urine being produced by its partial decomposition from its retention, and admixture with the mucus of the bladder. In neglected cases, the urine will be foetid and may contain blood. The passage of the catheter will also reveal the nature of the obstruction at the neck of the bladder. On passing a finger into the rectum the enlarged prostate will be flectal felt, and in some cases may nearly fill the pelvis. When pus or fluid ex,,mumuon. exists, fluctuation will be detected, and when inflammation, pain. To make this examination nicely, the finger should be well anointed, and, at the moment of its introduction, the patient should be told to bear down. It should be remembered, however, that to appreciate any abnormal condition of the gland, it is necessary to be familiar with its normal state. Mav ]e|1() t As a consequence of this affection and of the change produced in calculus, the urine, a phosphatic calculus may form, but its presence is often masked by the symptoms of the disease. When, however, there is increased pain after micturition, pus and blood in the urine, and ex- treme pain in the penis, a calculus may be suspected, and, when frag- ments of phosphatic deposit pass, the suspicion is confirmed. In all long-standing cases of prostatic disease with bladder symptoms, the presence of a stone should be suspected, although when present, it is often difficult of detection from being protected by the enlarged prostate, behind which it usually lies. A patient with enlarged prostate is liable to Retention from any sudden chill, over-distension of the bladder, mental emotion, or fatigue; indeed, such acicdeuts usually reveal the presence of the affection. Treatment,—Medicine has no influence in checking the progress Treatment of of this disease, nor in causing absorption of the enlarged organ ; but enlarged surgery can do much in the way of palliating the symptoms that are Prustilte- the direct result of the enlargement, and neutralising its evil effects. The most essential point is, to ensure the complete evacuation of the instrumental bladder’s contents, and also to see that no residuum of urine remains in aid. the bladder to irritate the organ and decompose, thereby setting up cystitis. This should be done by the passage of a catheter. In early cases where but little bladder irritation exists, the passage of the in- strument once a day may suffice; but, when the residual urine is in any quantity and the bladder has lost some of its power of contrac- tion, the introduction of an instrument two or three times in the twenty-four hours may be necessary, and, in worse cases, where the bladder has lost all power of contraction on account of its over-dis- tension from chronic retention, it may be necessary or expedient to tie a catheter in the bladder, and leave it there for a time. The surgeon must remember, too, that iustrumental aid, though valuable, is a necessary evil, and should not be resorted to more frequently than the necessities of the case demand. Where instruments are required, a flexible full-sized catheter is the Catheters to best. When silver instruments are employed, one with a large curve a®dflexil,le should be selected, the back of the catheter riding more readily over lull-sized.