218 DIAGNOSIS OF A SCROTAL TUMOUR. Tumours not translucent. Haematocele. Inflamma- tory affections of testis. Tubercular disease. Cystic disease. albuminous, while in the encysted, it will be thin, non-albuminous, pale, and probably opalescent, containing on microscopical examination, granules and spermatozoa. In rare or old instances, however, the tumour may be opaque, and under such circumstances, difficulties may be experienced; yet the history of these cases will tend to throw much light upon the point, for to a certainty it will reveal a disease of very long standing; the tumour will be probably painless and fluctuating, and the testis made out to be in its usual position at the posterior part of the sac. When a doubt exists, a puncture with an exploring trocar and canula will decide the question, as in these cases, fluid will be drawn off of a dark colour, loaded with cholesterine. We will now pass on to the consideration of tumours which are not translucent and not hydrocele, and it is here that the surgeon experi- ences true difficulty in his diagnosis, as almost all the diseases of the testis are insidious in their growth, and chiefly painless in their development. . The haematocele, except in rare examples, usually follows upon some strain or injury, increasing with tolerable rapidity up to a certain point, and accompanied by pain which soon subsides. It then becomes stationary as to size, and remains torpid for a variable period, when pain reappears with other signs of inflammation. The presence of the testis is also to be made out by manipulation towards the posterior part of the organ. The surface of the tumour is always smooth, more or less oval or pyriform, and semi-elastic or fluctuating. The inflammatory affections of the testis have a peculiar shape, being laterally flattened, and are usually accompanied at some period of their course with tenderness and pain, as well as often associated with fluid in the tunica vaginalis. In the syphilitic inflammation, this fluid is often copious. Both organs are also generally involved, either together or at different times. The tumour is usually somewhat tender to the touch and has a firm fibrous feel unlike the semi-elastic and half-fluctuating sensations afforded by cystic or carcinomatous disease. In very chronic cases the testis may, however, be perfectly painless, and allow of any amount of manipulation without distress; the natural testicular sensation also having disappeared. In syphi- litic disease, the surface of the tumour will probably be irregular, with firm fibrous outgrowths in different parts and in the tunica albuginea. In the tubercular affection of the epididymis or testis there should not be any difficulty in the diagnosis, for the tubercular deposit, as a rule, takes place unaccompanied by pain or any symptom beyond that produced by its deposition. When deposited in masses,— its usual form,—it feels like some foreign body introduced into the substance of the gland or of the epididymis ; and is at first quite painless and unproductive of any symptoms, these only appearing when the mate- rial begins to soften down and excite some inflammatory action in the parts around. The tubercular material may be deposited in one or more masses, these subsequently, perhaps, coalescing into an irre- gular induration. When suppuration takes place, the diagnosis is complete. . . , ,, , The cystic or simple tumours of the testis are painless throughout the whole course of their growth, and can be recognised by purely