FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. 403 natural aspect of the carpal surface and the concavity of the radius.” (p. 24, ‘ Gordon on Fractures of Radius,’ &c., 1875.) Colies’s fracture, according to Dr. Gordon, being “ caused by the fall upon the palm of the hand, the fall forcing the hand backwards, putting the anterior carpal ligaments and flexor tendons violently on the stretch, wrenching off by the “ cross-breaking strain” the lower end of the radius, tilting it backwards, with alteration of the aspect of its carpal surface, and the bearing of the carpus upon it, leaving a gap between the fragments in front” (p. 14). The forearm should be well supported by a sling. After this form of fracture, the wrist-joint rarely recovers its normal movement, some deformity permanently remaining, and of this the patient ought to be warned. I have recently, however, had under care (June, 1878) a case of double compound Colies’s fracture, in which a recovery took place without any deformity. Fractures of the ulna are almost always the result of direct violence, Of the ulna, the middle and lower parts of the shaft—the thinner portions—usually suffering. In these cases, there is, as a rule, little displacement, and Symptoms of when it exists it is of the lower fragment. On manipulation, crepitus fractured is usually present with local pain. Fracture of the olecranon process is a very frequent accident from a fall or blow upon the elbow, or a sudden action of the triceps. In it, there is always more or less dis- Of olecranon, placement of the end of the process, and the smaller the piece the greater the displacement, the base of the process being held well in position by the fascia covering the bone and the periosteum. Fracture of the coronoid process (Guy’s Museum, 1119s8), with or without dislocation of the ulna backwards has also been described; though very rare. In the case from which Fig. 495 was taken, it co-existed with fracture of the head of the radius. The styloid process of the ulna may likewise be broken and displaced forwards or backwards, and is generally caused by a fall upon the hand. Treatment.—In fractures of the shaft the treatment is simple, the Treatment, radius acting as a splint and preventing shortening. The surgeon has only to see that the broken bone is kept quiet, and that the frag- ments are in position. This is well done by means of well-padded anterior and posterior splints, the hands being fixed in a position mid- way between pronation and supination. In fractures of the coronoid process, the forearm should he kept flexed to relax the hrachialis auticus muscle which is inserted into it; and in fractures of the olecranon, nearly straight, to relax the triceps, through which the separation of the fragments takes place. The splint may be strapped on or fixed by strapping, and, in severe cases, an immoveable apparatus is advisable. Some separation of the fragments very frequently remain after frac- ture of the olecranon, which increases when the arm is used too soon, the power of the arm being consequently weakened. Passive movement of the arm, however, should always be permited about five weeks after the accident, all violent efforts being condemned. Fracture of both radius and ulna occurs about as frequently as of both fracture of the ulna alone, hut not a quarter so often as fracture bones, of the radius. Direct violence is the usual cause, a fall upon the Cause, hand being more commonly followed by fracture of the radius than of the two bones.