538 OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. Examples. I also, in May, 1877, saw a second example of this affection in the person of a manned lady, mt. 54, who, although in the enjoy- ment of excellent health, was quite unable to walk without crutches, on account of the weight and weakness of her legs. The disease had been gradually coming on for six years, and the pains in the thighs had given her great trouble. When I saw her she came into my room on crutches and sat down with the arched back so peculiar to this affection, her thigh hones were enormously thickened and bent, the necks of the femora were horizontal, as proved by the test line of the ilio-femoral triangle (Fig. 503), and the knees were far apart from the bowing of the legs. The hones of the upper extremity were also clearly enlarged. I could not make out that the cranial bones were involved. The lady informed me that she was at least an inch shorter this year than she was last, the changes in the necks of the femora would, however, account for this fact. She had had two sisters, one died from cancer of the breast, while the second was an imbecile and had died in an asylum. This case well supports the observations that have been made. Sir J. Paget regards the disease as inflammatory, Dr. Good- hart brings forward another hypothesis. He does not think the term inflammatory can be considered as properly descriptive of this dis- ease, partly because to give “ inflammation ” so wide a meaning as would embrace a general hyperti’ophy of all the hones, as one of its re- sults would be to deprive the term of all significance; and also because it is still less applicable to other diseases allied to the one in question. Dr. Goodhart considers that hyperostosis is essentially a new growth, or as he expresses it, a generalized bone tumour, and adduces in support of this view :—1st. The clinical history of the disease; its co- existence with otherwise good health ; the absence of pain, its intracta- bility under treatment; its frequent association towards its close with some other form of malignant tumour. 2ndly. Its peculiar parrallelism with molluscum fibrosura and a form of elephantiasis, which is a corresponding disease in the subcutaneous or fibro-cellular connective- tissue, to this in hone connective tissue. There is certainly a good deal to be said in favour of this view, and though Sir .Tames Paget does not see his way to adopting it as the more probable, I am, on a review of the whole subject, and unfettered by any partiality for a theory of my own, inclined to think with my colleague. No treatment seems to have the slightest influence on the progress of this affection.