WOUNDS OF CHEST. immediate symptoms and to give time for the antimony to take effect, because when the patient has been brought fully under its influence, all danger may be said to have disappeared; few patients die from secondary inflammation of the lungs when once fairly under the in- fluence of antimony. Fracture of the sterno-costal cartilages is a rare accident. 1 have Fracture of seen but two cases, and in one of the seventh rib, which had resulted ^[®t8|ern0‘ from a direct blow, a false joint existed. These which are said to cartilages, unite generally by bone can be treated in the same way as fractured ribs. Dislocation and fracture of the sternum are likewise rare accidents, Dislocation and the majority of them are complicated with other injuries, such as those of the head and spine—this condition having been found in 1 11 four out of fifty-six fatal cases of injury to the spine at Guy’s Hospital probably from the violent descent of the chin against the manubrium. It is occasionally met with also as a complication of fractured ribs. When fracture takes place, it is generally transverse and oblique from before backwards, the lower fragment being found projecting, only rare examples existing of a vertical fissure. When the upper portion of bone is displaced, it is generally displaced backwards; Rivington, in an able paper (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ 1874), has fairly shown that displacement occurs in preference to fracture when an arthrodial joint exists between the manubrium and gladiolus. When deformity is pre- sent from displacement of bones, the diagnosis is easy, and when this Diagnosis, does not exist, pain in the part, aggravated by a full inspiration and crepitus on the application of the hand are the chief symptoms. The treatment must be the same as for fractured ribs, such as the recumbent Treatment, position and strapping over the part, complications being dealt with as they arise. Dislocation of the ribs requires notice, although little can be said Dislocaton about the subject. It is rarely if ever an accident per se, and when it of ril)S- occurs, it is part of a more severe one, such as fracture of the spine, or complicated fracture of the ribs. The same remarks apply to disloca- tion of the ribs from the cartilages, and the cartilages from the sternum. Practically all these cases should be dealt with like fractures. Wounds of the Chest. Wounds, of The main point to be determined in such cases as these is, whether cllest- the wound is superficial or has penetrated the pleura; for if the former Nou- obtains, slight cause for anxiety exists, but if the latter, the accident is penetrating gru.ve« wounds. When the wound is penetrating, the extent of the penetration Penctr«tiu>' and the organ penetrated has to be determined. Is the pleura alone wounds of" wounded—a rare injury—or is the lung involved ? Is the heart injured, cl,est- or any of the great vessels—the intercostal or internal mammary artery ? Many of these points can only be determined by a knowledge of the kind of weapon employed, its subsequent appearance, the direction of the force, and the anatomical knowledge of the surgeon; and, even then the difficulties of these cases are often great, as witnessed in a recent memorable trial (Flora Davy). When emphysema and hremoptysis are present, they may be accepted as clear indications of a wounded lung. Emphysema alone is always a suspicious symptom, though it may occur to s. mptoms a limited extent in non-penetrating punctured wounds that traverse the '