ENCYSTED HYDROCELE. 189 the radical cure by injection, and have not met with any bad results. When this treatment fails and further measures are demanded, as a last resource, an incision into the cyst may be made. On the Kadical Cure of Hydrocele. On radical cure of It is not necessary to review all the various plans which have been hydrocele, and are now employed for the permanent cure of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. It will be more to the purpose to give the line of practice which is most successful and which at the same time is very simple, viz. the injection of the cyst with a solution of iodine. It is Selection of perhaps not a question of much importance whether the fluid should injection and be concentrated or diluted, or whether it should be permanently left 113 streil=lli' in the cyst or withdrawn after a few minutes have been allowed for it to act upon the secreting surface, such minor differences may be left to the fancy of the operator. My own judgment leans towards the practice of injecting a mixture of a drachm or more of the com- pound tincture of iodine with double the quantity of water, and allow- ing it to remain, care being taken that the canula is previously well pushed home into the cyst, and that no iodine solution is allowed to escape into the cellular tissue outside the sac. By this practice, a radical cure is almost certain to be secured, and only exceptionally does any failure or evil result follow. If the latter occur, it is generally due to the fact, that a hydrocele has been injected when some inflammation of the testicle co-exists, and from which it has been produced. In all examples of hydro-testitis, the practice of injection must be looked upon as injurious, and is treating tbe result of a disease, and not the disease itself, the effect, and not the cause. I do not propose to enlarge upon the other forms of treatment which have been employed, such as incision, caustic, or even setons; since the practice I have advocated is so simple and successful as to surpass all others. Within the last two years where the iodine has failed I have used warm water as an injection. It answered well, but set up more inflammatory action than the iodine, indeed, in several cases, it excited suppuration. Some of the Dublin surgeons speak highly of the practice of introduc- ing into the sac of the tunica vaginalis a grain or more of the biniodide of mercury made into a paste with some grease, and I have followed this practice in some cases with advantage. I prefer, how- ever, the iodine treatment. On Encysted Hydrocele of the Testis. On examining the testis of the adult after death, it is by no means o» encysted an uncommon occurrence to meet with small cysts connected with the hydrocele of epididymis. These may be single or multiple, and, in many instances, te"3t's. are very numerous. They are generally more or less pedunculated, and as a rule, are connected with the upper portion of the epididymis,' and filled with a clear watery fluid which contains in certain cases some granules. The pathology of the formation of these cysts is somewhat difficult Patholo-y. to understand, and, surgically, is of small importance, since they seldom, if ever, become of sufficient size to cause inconvenience, or to require any operative interference; indeed, they are rarely diagnosed during life, and are only discovered on post-moi’tem dissection.