604 chopakt’s amputation. The operation. many times, thinks most highly of it, and never has had to amputate subsequently on account of the pointing of the stump. He believes that this can always be prevented or cured by the division of the tendo Achillis on the first indication of such a malformation. It was intro- duced into English practice in 1828, by the late Mr. James, of Exeter, and to the notice of Scotch surgeons by Professor Syme, who subse- quently, however, renounced it in favour of his own operation at the ankle-joint. He did so on account of the objection already stated, and because iu such partial amputations the part of the tarsus left behind, though apparently sound at the time, may become affected with the same disease at a later period. But such an argument may be brought against all operations less than the removal of a diseased part far from the seat of mischief, and is now fairly repudiated by modern surgeons. In fact, all excisional and conservative surgery is based upon an opposite supposition, the local nature of disease becoming daily more acknowledged and acted upon. The operation may be described as the amputation of the fore part of the foot, anterior to the astragalus and os calcis, or as the medio-tarsal amputation. On the right foot it should be commenced by making a slightly convex flap from the dorsal aspect of the foot, commencing half an inch behind the prominence of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and terminating at the tubercle of the scaphoid, the surgeon grasping the foot, with his index-finger on one point and his thumb on the other. The skin is the first part to be divided, and subsequently on the level of its retraction, all the tendons, &e., are cut through down to the bones or joints, the articulations are then opened, beginning at the scaphoid joint; the foot should be forcibly bent down- wards to facilitate this part of the operation ; the plantar flap is to be made by cutting forwards, and in doing this, care should be observed to keep the knife close to the bones on the sole of the foot, in order that the soft parts may be divided with as clean a cut as possible; the flap should be long and extend as far as the balls of the toes, and longer on its inner than outer aspect (Fig. 633). All ragged Fig. 633. tendons may be cut off short, and the parts brought together. It there be any difficulty in bringing up the fore part of the stump, or any retraction of the heel, the tendo Achillis should be divided at once, but