452 DISEASE OF HIP-JOINT. Position of limb in early hip disease. In advanced disease. Effects of adduction of femur. Spurious lordosis. ceases under its influence, and the head of the hone, by manipulation, rotates with more or less facility and smoothness, according to the amount of joint mischief that is present. Position of Limb as a means of Diagnosis. In the diagnosis or treatment of hip disease there is no point which deserves closer attention than the position of the limb, and I ain disposed to think it has not received that attention, since ex- perience has proved, that most of the cases of deformity met with after a natural cure of the disease, are due to a want of appreciation of its importance. In one case the limb will appear elongated, but on measurement, no real lengthening will be detected, the apparent elongation being due to the tilting upwards of the pelvis on the sound side, from the patient either naturally throwing all the weight of the body on that side to take off pressure from the affected one, or, from muscular spasm causing abduction of the limbs (Fig. 535). In another case the pelvis on the affected side will be drawn up, and tilted slightly backwards, the thigh becoming adducted and more or less flexed upon the pelvis (Fig. 536), or in some cases rotated outwards from the spasmodic contraction of the muscles that move the hip. In other and more Fig. 535. Fig. 535a. Apparent elongation of the left lower ex- tremity in hip disease on the leftside due to adduction of the limb and the necessary tilting upwards of the pelvis on the sound side to allow the abducted limb being brought into a line with the body. Fig. 535a shows the deducted position of the diseased lelt, limb when the pelvis has been brought into its natural posi- tion at right angles to the spine. advanced cases, genuine shortening of the limb may take place from either real loss of substance in the head or neck of the bone, or, in exceptional cases, from dislocation of the head of the femur upwards and backwards (ilio-iscliiatic) ; and, in rarer examples, the neck and shaft of the femur may be separated and displaced upwards and backwards, the epiphysial head of the bone being left in the acetabulum. Hus probably occurred in the case from which Figs. 537-8 were taken. Where the joint is flexed, some spinal deformity (lordosis) will exist