442 PATHOLOGY OP JOINT DISEASES. In subacute and chronic inflamma- tion. the synovial membrane, passes over the articular cartilage. I have seen these changes more than once. The changes that take place in the synovial membrane in sub-acute and chronic synovitis remain to he noticed, and they are essentially of the same pathological character as those we have been just considering, though they differ in this great point, that the synovial membrane is Thickening of not destroyed but becomes thickened in various degrees bv the infil- tration within its walls and upon its surface of inflammatory product, and this thickening may be so great that the synovial membrane may be represented by a tissue an inch in diameter. It will, however, be found only in cases in which repeated attacks of inflammation have taken place, and many layers of lymph have been deposited upon and in the affected tissue. The layers may not be deposited rapidly one after another by consecutive attacks of chronic inflammatory action, for they may he the result of disease which has spread over many years, hut they will always represent an inflammatory action of a chronic nature which at uncertain intervals has attacked the joint, and on each occasion left behind it pathological evidence of its pre- sence by an inflammatory infiltration. In delicate and so-called stru- mous subjects, the product will be soft and pulpy, and in the syphilitic, firmer and fibrous. It is with such changes as these that all cases of the gelatiniform or gelatinous disease of the synovial membrane, as well as the pulpy disease of Sir B. Brodie, are unquestionably to he classed. Both are of the Pulpy disease same nature pathologically and clinically, at least, all my own investi- and " gations have led to this conclusion. I shall therefore employ the phrase “ pulpy disease of the synovial membrane ” to designate the changes which ensue in chronic inflammatory synovial disease. The term is short and as expressive as any other, besides being one with which the profession is familiar. In syphilitic subjects. gelatinous condition. Changes in the articular cartilage under disease. Errors in the pathology. On the pathological changes the articular cartilages undergo from disease. The most important point the practical surgeon should recognise when considering the pathology of the articular cartilages has refer- ence to the fact, that there is no primary disease of its structure, since pathological anatomy teaches us, that all the changes found in it are secondary to som6 other affection, and in the generality of cases, to dis- ease in the articular extremities of the bones. There is no such disease, therefore, as primary “ ulceration of the cartilages,” and, when the car- tilages are diseased, they are so from the extension of mischief from the bone beneath, or from the synovial membrane around or upon them. Much has been written about the cartilages under the idea that they were liable to special diseases ; and much error has consequently crept into joint pathology. The authority of great names, such as Brodie, Key,'and others, having helped to encourage this idea. Modern investi- gation, as carried out by Redfern, Goodsir, and others, has, however, corrected this erroneous notion, and an improved pathology lias clearly shown, that the diseases of the cartilages are secondary to diseases of other tissues. Some years ago, when describing the results of my own inves- tigations, I divided these affections into the fatty, the fibrous, and the granular degenerations, and nothing that has been oh-