325 WRY-NECK. lows upon that form; indeed, it seems generally to be the consequence of some long-continued spasm, atrophy following from exhaustion, inflam- mation of the muscle, or what is called rheumatism. It is seen more commonly in the flexor muscles of joints than in any other, and, as a special affection in some cases of nory-neck, where the sterno-mastoid muscle is at fault. Treatment.—When the muscles are not too rigid, much may be Treatment done by rapid extension under the influence of chloroform, or gradually by means of splints, manipulation, or india-rubber bands, &c., suited to the wants of the individual case. When these means are ineffectual, or the parts too rigid to allow of their application, the subcuta- neous division of the tendon of the muscle or muscles may he per- formed upon the same principle as tenotomy is practised in contracted tendons. Wry-neck is an example of this affection due to a contracted sterno- Wry-neck mastoid muscle. It may he that the sternal or clavicular origin may he alone at fault, it being exceptional to find both divisions of the muscle affected. Under such circumstances, w'lien the muscle refuses to he Treatment, stretched by mechanical appliances, the half involved alone requires division, followed by extension when union has taken place. In these difficult cases it seems wise, as a rule, not to bring the divided ends of the muscle so closely into contact as the surgeon usually does after division of a tendon. One of the worst cases of the kind I ever had to treat was in a Example, child, aat. 7, in which both origins of the muscle required division. I brought the head up to the required position on the second day, and kept it there, an excellent result ensuing In another which I treated in 1870, in a child, set. 6, with Mr. Duke, of Battle, the muscle of the left side was two inches shorter than that of the right from contraction of its sternal half; I applied extension on the third day, after the division of the con- tracted portion, and brought the head into its right place, keeping up the extension by means of a piece of india-rubber band an inch wide, which was fastened to a skull cap on the opposite side of the head and passed backwards across the shoulders and beneath the axilla of the affected side to fasten to a good thoracic belt (Fig. 430). These cases of wry neck due to contraction of muscles, are always as- sociated with some arrest of growth in the upper and lower jaws on the affected side. Mr. De Morgan informs us (‘ Med.- Chir. Rev.,’ 1866) that in a case that failed to yield under such treat- ment he took away a piece of the spinal accessory nerve with permanent benefit, the steruo-mastoid and trapezius muscles being of necessity paralysed. This operation has been repeated, but without success. * Fig. 430.