ON THE TREATMENT AND CURE OF JOINT DISEASE. 465 is to be avoided, for “in diseases of the joints rest cannot be too much insisted upon” (John Hunter, 1787); and for these ends the applica- tion of a splint is essential, that form of splint being the best which keeps the joint quiet, the pelvis at its normal angle to the spinal column, and the affected limb from being either adducted or abducted; without doubt, these points are best preserved by the double splint figured in 507, 550. Children with this splint well adjusted can be moved with the greatest facility, and, even when there is acute joint disease, with very little suffering. Sir C. Bell clearly saw the sir C. Bell’s necessity of rest, and was so impressed with it as to make the fol- suggestion, lowing ingenious suggestion:—“ I have observed that patients who have hip disease recover when anchylosis of the joint takes place, when the bones become fixed and immovable. Founding upon this, I attempted by various contrivances to form an instrument which might keep the bones at perfect rest, but so great is the tendency in this joint to motion, that I have never yet succeeded. No instrument has ever been effectual in keeping the thigh and trunk fixed.” “ I have been led to think that an operation might be performed here; that a cut might he made to expose the upper part of the femur, and the neck he sawn through ; not, you will observe, to take away the head of the bone, as done by Mr. White with success, but to permit it to remain at rest and to form an adhesion with the acetabulum. In this case a joint will be formed where the bone has been divided ” (‘ Lond. Med. Gaz.,’ Jan. 12, 1828, “ Hip Diseases,” by Sir C., then Mr. Bell.) When suppuration has appeared, re- covery with anchylosis can alone he looked for, though where diseased bone exists this result cannot be expected, unless the dis- eased bone is cast off or removed. When, however, an abscess has been the result of chronic changes in a pulpy synovial mem- brane, the complete disorganization of the joint need not, as a necessary consequence, be contemplated, although where it has fol- lowed disease in the articular extremities of the bones (articular ostitis), it is more than probable that the articular carti- lages with the ligaments and synovial cap- sule will have been completely destroyed. Under the former circumstances, therefore, when the suppuration has taken place as a consequence of synovial disease, recovery may ensue with soft or fibrous anchy- losis, or even some degree of movement; whilst under the latter, though fibrous anchylosis may supervene, osseous anchy- losis can only occur after the cartilages with the articular lamellae of bone have entirely gone, and there is no necrosed bone left to keep up the disease; for, with VOL. II. 30