190 ENCYSTED HYDROCELE. Variety. Frequency. Another variety. Symptoms. Peculiarity iu shape. Position of testis. Another kind of cyst is occasionally met with connected with the testis, and in close contact, if not associated, with the epididy- mis. It has been described as the encysted hydrocele. It springs from the same part as the smaller cyst, hut grows to much larger di- mensions, and generally contains a very different kind of fluid. Its origin is as obscure as the former. It enlarges very slowly, does not give rise to any pain, nor produces any inconvenience other than that caused by its size. It seldom requires treatment in its early stage, and, as a rule, many years are allowed to pass before interference is demanded, the tumours frequently developing for twenty years or more before advice is sought. These cases are by no means so common as the ordinary vaginal hydrocele—not more than 5 per cent, of the cases of hydrocele being of this kind. A cyst is occasionally developed between the tunica albuginea of the testis and the tunica vaginalis testis, the pathology of which being very obscure. Mr. S. Osborne suggests, and I think with good reason, that this is merely an enlargement of the corpus or hydatid of Morgagni,— a constant structure, existing as a pedunculated vesicle situated between the summit of the globus major and the body of the testicle, between the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea (‘ St. Thomas’s Hospital Report,’ 1S74). Cases of this kind are de- scribed by Curling and Hutchinson. Guy’s Museum contains a spe- cimen. I know of no means of diagnosing their existence. Their treatment would be similar to that of other cysts. Symptoms and diagnosis.—In an early stage of encysted hydrocele the diagnosis is not difficult, as the cyst usually appears as a kind of budding of the testis or rather of the upper portion of the epididymis, as a tense hard, globular, and, in some cases, pendent tumour, more or less intimately connected with some portion of the spermatic duct. It is generally discovered on the part of the patient by accident, and, when as large as the natural testicle, has been set down occasionally as an extra organ. The surgeon is not often consulted in such a case in its early stage; the tumour having been allowed to grow to an inconvenient size before advice is sought. In forming a diagnosis, the history of the case will often at once throw some light upon its nature; and the surgeon, in all probability, will discover that its increase has been extremely slow, twenty years or more often intervening before the cyst attains anything like a large size; these encysted hydroceles probably never growing so fast nor acquiring such dimensions as the more common vaginal species. The next feature demanding attention in the development of these cysts is their shape and outline, which are often rather striking. They never in their early stage, and rarely at any time assume the appear- ance of ordinary vaginal hydrocele, and almost always maintain a globular outline. The position of the testis in its relation to the cyst next claims attention, and a marked difference exists between the encysted and the vaginal hydrocele. In the latter, as a rule, it is to be found at the posterior part of the sac,—when the tumour is small towards its lower, when large towards its upper part. In the former, or encysted, it is to be found in front, at one side, or below, and rarely at the pos- terior part. The reason for this is easily explained. The cyst is