499 SUPPURATION AROUND JOINTS. In its early stage, the disease is characterised by local pain, stiffness Early or rigidity of the joint, and local thickening and development of bony sy'"p om • outgrowths, every movement of the joint giving rise to a characteristic crackling. In the later stage, the same pain manifests itself with thickening, bony outgrowths, effusion, greater mobility and even dis- location, and finally, disorganisation. I have a lady under observation in whom this disease is so developed in both knee-joints that the legs are as flails, the bones being enor- mously expanded and the joints distended, additamentary bones and osteophytes existing. She can only stand by means of artificial supports. Treatment.—Little can be done by means of medicine to check the Treatment of progress of this affection beyond attention to the general condition of Arthritis the patient. In the iodide of potassium we possess a drug that cer- tainly relieves pain, and also I believe retards the progress of the disease, the liquid extract of bark or other tonic being a valuable adjunct. When pain is severe, anodynes may he given, such as Dover’s powder, or the bromide of potassium in doses of gr. x or gr. xv, this drug going well with the iodide. Professor Smith, who has paid so much atten- tion to this disease, thinks well of an electuary of guaiacum, sulphur, the bitartrate and carbonate of potash, ginger, and rhubarb. Dr. Adams prescribes the diluted phosphoric acid. Warm bathing is of use, as are also the mineral springs of Germany. This disease, although locally a painful one, does not appear to have a fatal tendency, and unless very neglected rarely goes on to the disorganization of the joint. To maintain rest is not a recommendation to be attended to, as it tends to make the joint stiffen in the early stage of the affection without arresting its progress. In the more advanced stage when “ hydrops When articuli” is present, and the ligaments are so loose as to allow of the hydrops displacement of the joint, some mechanical appliance is called for, such Resent.18 as that afforded by simple strapping, or of some firm leather, felt, or V other casing. In extreme cases, excision or amputation may be required. ACUTE BURSITIS AND SUPPURATION AROUND JOINTS. I have placed these two headings together, as there is good reason to Acute believe that suppuration about the cellular tissue external to a joint is bursitis most frequently the consequence of an acute inflammation of some superficial bursa, and that it is only in exceptional instances such a around connection cannot be traced. Over the knee- and elbow-joints, where this suppuration is generally met with, some blow, fall, or punctured Situation wound may originate an acute inflammation in the burste of these parts, while the thick integument covering them prevents the in- flammatory products making their escape externally, and favours their lateral extension: the abscess consequently in one case, after cover- ing the knee, burrows backwards into the popliteal space or in the other, comes forwards in the arm into its flexure; more commonly how- ever, it shows itself as a painful phlegmonous inflammation over and around the patella or olecranon process. In some examples the suppuration ,s confined to the bursa, while in most, the iiiflamma- tion will be found to radiate from these well-known points. In children however, the connection between the suppuration and bursitis is not so