SURGERY OF THE CHEST. 3 6 In lunatic asylums. Causes— direct and indirect. Varieties. Compli- cations. Prognosis of fractured ribs. In the old and asthmatic. Dangers of complicated fracture. Fractured ribs are not uncommon accidents in lunatic asylums, and generally arise from direct violence; though it would be wrong to assume that they are always the result of ill-treatment, as patients when much excited, will inflict unconsciously most serious injuries on themselves, and it has been proved that the bones of many of the insane are in an abnormally brittle state. This is especially true in the dis- ease known as “ general paralysis of the insane.” Dr. Campbell Brown, of Liverpool, has analysed the ribs of general paralytics, and states that “ the ratio of organic constituents to earthy matters is much greater, while the ratio of lime to phosphoric acid is distinctly less, in the ribs of paralytics than in those of healthy adults. There are the same differences between the composition of healthy ribs and those of paralytics as between the composition of the adult large bones and those of the fmtus. And generally the composition in cases of paralysis approaches that observed in cases of osteo-malacia.” Some striking cases bearing on this subject are recorded by Dr. Hearder in the ‘ Journ. of Mental Sci.’ for 1871. In the majority of cases, the injury being the result of direct violence, the fracture takes place at the part struck, and so the ribs are often driven in. In the minority, where it is due to indirect violence such as that caused by a crush or squeeze, the ribs generally give way about their middle, and three or more become injured, both sides being not unfrequently involved. When the bones are merely broken, it is called a simple fracture; but when complicated with a wound commu- nicating with the fracture, compound. When the ends of the broken ribs are driven inwards, the pleura costalis or the lung itself may be torn, and the heart or pericardium or abdominal viscera injured. In an analysis of 136 consecutive cases which I made when registrar at Guy’s, 108 were uncomplicated and twenty-eight com- plicated fractures, six of which died at once from fatal collapse. Of the former, eight only had secondary inflammation, whilst of the latter, sixteen were complicated with emphysema, three with emphy- sema and haemoptysis, and three with extensive injury to the lung and secondary inflammatory symptoms. All these recovered, except two that died from old-standing disease. When a rib is broken, the serous lining of the chest, the pleura cos- talis, is probably injured, and the danger of the accident lies in the secondary inflammation—pleuritis—which may follow ; and this oc- curred in eight of the 108 cases just alluded to. When the lung is injured, as indicated by emphysema or haemoptysis, pneumonia, which happens in about seven out of every twenty-two cases, is the danger to be feared. Cases that die from fatal collapse after the accident generally do so from haemorrhage due to extensive laceration of the thoracic or abdominal viscera. In gunshot fractures, a portion of the ribs may be detached and driven into the lung. Simple fracture is a serious accident only in subjects who are the vic- tims of some chronic chest affection, when, from the broken ribs rendering it impossible for the patients to expectorate, asphyxia is favoured. Fractures complicated with injury to the lung are, however, more serious. When severe, they are directly dangerous from the shock to the system and the haemorrhage that frequently attends them ; and indirectly so from the fact that the slightest lung wound