DROWNING. 45 Under some circumstances, the asphyxia is rapid or acute, in others. May be rapid chronic. In accidental cases, it is chiefly the former; in disease, the or slow- latter. In both, however, the result is the same, the blood not being decarbonised as it should be, and what Dr. Cleveland has rightly called carbon semi a ensues. Special symptoms may depend entirely upon the nature of the asphyxiating cause, but the ultimate effects are the same in each. In all, whether slow or rapid, there is congestion and lividity of the face. In all, the heart continues to beat, though laboriously, after respiration has ceased, the action becoming gradually less distinct till it stops altogether. It is possible for the heart to continue its action from two to four minutes after the last respiratory effort. After death, it has generally been thought, the cerebral vessels Condition would be found gorged with blood. Ackeman has shown, however, after that this condition is present only when the head of the subject has been kept lower than the rest of the body, and that death by suffocation is always connected with an exsanguine state of the cerebral vessels. The right side of the heart and great vessels will be full of black Heart and blood, whilst the left side will be found empty, and the whole arterial vessels- blood will be, as the venous, of a dark colour. All the abdominal viscera will be engorged with blood. The lungs, in cases of hanging and mechanical obstruction, present Lungs, no characteristic appearance, but in those of drowning they will be more or less filled with water or the drowning medium, and incapable of collapsing, and will feel heavy and doughy to the touch. The air-tubes, moreover, wall be choked with a sanious foam composed of blood, water, mucus, and often foreign matter churned up with the air of the lungs. Frothy water mixed with blood will also pour out of any section of the lung. These points were clearly stated by the Committee of the Koyal Med. and Chir. Society on suspending animation, and recorded in the ‘ Transactions ’ for 1862. Drowning. Sow long a human being may be under water, and yet recover, is On drowning, an important question, but the answer depends upon many considera- tions. Dr. Sanderson believes he has demonstrated by experiments that in animals the duration of life turns upon the amount of air con- fined in the chest at the time of immersion; that when the animal on immersion fills its chest with water by an inspiratory effort, death is most rapid; but if the chest be full of air at the time, and no such inspiratory effort takes place, life may be prolonged for several minutes. The occurrence of syncope at the moment of immersion, whether from Occurrence fright, shock, or previous injury, is consequently a happy accident, of syncope, the respiratory act being materially diminished by the syncope. “ If a person be completely submerged,” writes Dr. W. G. Harley in * Holmes’s System,’ “ and the entrance of water to, and exit of air from the lungs not prevented, we believe that recovery would be impossible after two minutes. On the other hand, if the air-passages were closed against the entrance of water, and the chest kept full of air, we see no reason for thinking that a human being would perish either more slowly or more quickly than a dog placed under similar circumstances, namely, in from four to five minutes.” Death by strangulation is due to asphyxia alone, and, as a rule, is homicidal, being consequently often complicated with other injuries’. Death by hanging is of a mixed form; since in addition to the strangu-