AFFECTIONS OF BURSAE MUCOSA, GANGLION, ETC. 305 also mny communicate with the hip-joint. When distended with fluid it will give rise to a swelling in the upper part of the thigh on the inner side of the femoral vessels, which will he soft and fluctuating, hut not receive any impulse on coughing, like a psoas abscess, for which it is apt to be mistaken. The bursa between the tendon of the gluteus maximus and trochanter Bursa may also inflame and suppurate, and, when it does, it gives rise to a troublesome and often dangerous affection. When suppuration takes maximus place, an opening may be made, which should be free, but the thigh and must be well fixed. When suppuration does not occur naturally the trochanter, surgeon should be in no hurry to open the bursa, but be satisfied to keep the limb at rest and blister the swelling. Synovial bursae in the popliteal space require a rather longer notice In popliteal than the forms to which attention has already been directed, since they 8Pac<J- are, although common, sometimes difficult to diagnose and dangerous to treat. Their treatment, however, as a rule, is successful. These bursas may be divided in a clinical point of view into two classes—the first, including such as are connected with the sheaths of tendons or that encircle their insertion, and have no communication with the knee-joint; the second, those that directly or indirectly communicate with the joint and are either synovial herniae pouching from it, or‘bursae originating about the tendons and communicating with it. A mong the first is the normal bursa which exists above the head That do not of the fibula on the outer border of the popliteal space between the insertion of the biceps muscle and the external lateral ligament; a J0 ' second, which may be said to be on the outer border, although it has a somewhat more central position which separates the external lateral ligament from the tendon of the popliteus muscle; and a third on the inner side of the space which lies between the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle and the inner tuberosity of the tibia—the whole of these bursae occupying the lower half of the popliteal space. In the second division, there is the smaller bursa which separates the Tlmt do. outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle from the outer condyle of the femur, and the larger that normally exists between the internal condyle of the femur and the inner head of the gastrocnemius and semi-membranosus muscles, and which generally sends a process between these muscles, the smaller occasionally and the larger generally com- municating with the knee-joint, both of these occupying the upper half of the popliteal space. The larger bursa may have its origin on the inner side of the popli- teal space, but as it grows, invariably encroaches on it and becomes central, and is far more frequently enlarged than any of the other popliteal bursa}. All these normal synovial bursae may become enlarged under the jinfiuence of over or prolonged exertion or any sudden strain, the .smaller ones increasing to the size of a walnut, and the larger to that |of an orange. As they increase so they become ceutral, and as they ;assume a central position difficulties in their diagnosis may be expe- rienced. They may contain a thin, clear, or blood-stained serous fluid; a tenacious, synovial, or colloidal, apple-jelly-like material, and, in ■xceptional instances may have consolidated. I have, however, known ;his to occur but once. It is probable that the bursae which have serous vol. II. 20