173 GONORRHCEA. should be suspected. It may often be made out by the passage of a Bougie, full sized bougie a boule, when an ordinary catheter fails to detect it. The gleet should only be satisfactorily treated by the cure of the stric- ture, that is, its full dilatation. Tonics, particularly iron, are valuable adjuncts to the treatment. Tonics. All connection must be forbidden for some time after the apparent cure of a clap, for any sexual excitement is likely to be followed by a relapse. Drinking and smoking to excess are injurious. In women, a clap is readily cured by the frequent use of astrin- Treatment in gent injections of tannin, alum, or zinc, 5ss to a pint; the passage the female, into the upper part of the vagina of the tannic acid suppository is also excellent treatment. In the use of both these means the patient should lie down with her hips raised, and the astringent should be allowed to remain in the passage. To inject it sitting or standing is a useless, although too common a practice. Complications.—In male subjects, inflammation of the epididymis is Complica- the most common complication, the disease, doubtless, spreading in a tions. direct way from the urethra through the vas deferens and cord to the epididymis. In some cases, it stops at the cord; in others, it goes on Epididymitis, to affect the testicle itself. It is often associated with hydrocele, and from this fact some surgeons have been led to believe, that inflam- mation of the testicle itself is a common consequence of a clap. The treatment of this affection will be considered in a future page. In the female, inflammation of the ovary is said to occur, and even pelvic peritonitis. Abscesses in the cellular tissue external to the urethra, penile or Abscess, perineal, are often met with in acute gonorrhoea and should be opened early. Chordee, or painful erection caused by the stretching of the corpora Chordee. cavernosa into which inflammatory products have been infiltrated is a common consequence, and a very painful one. Full doses of opium (gr. j), or ten grains of henbane, and a like dose of camphor, are reliable remedies. Ricord used a suppository of ten grains of camphor and one grain of the extract of opium; I have sometimes thought, the morphia suppository the most useful. Belladonna also smeared over the urethra gives relief at times. Retention of urine may likewise occur from the mechanical closure Retention of of the urethra through its swelling, from spasm of the urethra, or urine- from both causes. The warm bath and opium are the best remedies for the complication, a catheter being passed only when an absolute necessity exists. Inflammation of the prostate is likewise a complication, as is also Inflamma- jnjlammation of the bladder. (Vide Chapter XXI.) tion of Inflammation of the inguinal glands or sympathetic bubo, is often Sympathetic present, the glands occupying the upper part of the groin being usually bubo! involved, but those below Poupart’s ligament are not seldom affected. In neglected cases these glands may suppurate. Fomentations and tonics are the necessary treatment. The absorbents of the penis are at times inflamed and suppurate. Balanitis.—When the glans penis and prepuce are involved in the Balanitis, inflammation, and this inflammation is attended yvith profuse discharge, balanitis or external gonorrhoea is said to be present. This affection may be due to want of cleanliness as much as to gonorrhoeal contact.