On amputation in gunshot fracture. Chloroform may be given. Longmore’s views. Gordon’s views. MacCormac's views. 5G0 ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OP THE EXTREMITIES. having recovered ; but to obtain this result, he asserts that the complete immobility of the parts involved by means of the plaster-of-Paris splint or one of its congeners is indispensable. With respect to amputation in gunshot fractures, every surgeon since Guthrie’s time believes that the primary should, as arule.be preferred to the secondary. This primary amputation should also be performed as soon after the accident as possible. There is no necessity to wait for the effects of the shock of the accident to pass away, and unless the collapse be very severe, the hand of the surgeon need not be stayed. When, however, the collapse is great, some little delay had better be observed, for it is then more than probable that some internal injury or other complication exists to prevent reaction. Chloroform or any other anaesthetic may be used in military as freely as in civil practice. It has a powerful influence in preventing shock and allowing prolonged or double operations to be performed, which could not otherwise be undertaken, at least without extra risk. In military practice it should be remembered that a limb must often be sacrificed when in civil practice it might be saved; and that am- putation is often substituted for excision on account of the impossi- bility of giving the part the necessary amount of absolute rest and the patient the attention that can only be found in a civil hospital, “ for when active operations are proceeding, and it is necessary to carry the wounded to any distance, the advantage of early removal of shattered limbs is obvious, especially when means of rendering the limbs im- movable during the transport are defective or the transport itself has to be conducted over rough roads or in unsuitable vehicles, and the hopes of success from conservative treatment are thereby reduced almost to zero.”—Longmore. Dr. Gordon, the British commissioner accredited to the French army in the late war between France and Prussia, informs us that the conclu- sions the bulk of surgeons arrived at as regards amputation were, that it was more suited than excision or re-section when its subject had to be carried on with the army; that excision and resection were much more likely to be successful when practised in the upper than in the lower extremity; that excision of the knee, as a substitute for amputation in case of gunshot wounds of that articulation, has sadly failed ; that the practice of conservative surgery in stationary hospitals furnishes no criterion of its suitability in movable hospitals, its require- ments involving such attention from the surgeon as can alone be fully carried out when there are comparatively few cases of severity to attend to; and that in many cases, where the limbs are saved, they are relatively of little use. Mac Cormac urges that the mortality after primary is so very much smaller than that attendant on secondary amputation, that this point cannot be too strongly insisted upon.