FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 391 tlie end of the fractured hone was driven through the internal jugular vein. Fractures of both clavicles have also been recorded. I have seen this more than once in children. Treatment.—Daily experience proves that fractures of the clavicle Treatment, unite without any treatment, and, moreover, by palpable deformity shows that where treatment has been employed, the union is neither perfect nor satisfactory. Daily experience likewise proves, that in most, if not all cases of fracture of the clavicle, the bones fall well into place on the patient assuming the recumbent position. In young ladies, and in others where it is a matter of importance to prevent deformity, this recumbent position in bed may be maintained for about three weeks till union has fairly taken place; but children and men will rarely be found willing to follow such a line of treatment, and happily it is not required, for nearly, if not quite equally good re- sults will be secured by imitating what takes place on the patient assuming the recumbent position, viz., by fixing the lower blade of the scapula to the chest, binding down its angle to the thorax, and thus preventing the tilting forwards and rotation of the bone through which the deformity takes place. The plan I have now adopted for some years is, to place a pad over Binding the blade of the scapula below its spine, and to bind the bone firmly scapula to to the thorax by means of broad strips of strapping obliquely en- thorax- circling half the chest from the spine to the sternum, at the same time supporting the affected arm in a sling, and drawing the hand upwards towards the opposite shoulder. This same method is also advocated by Dr. E. Hartshorne, of Pennsylvania. Whilst the strapping is being fixed, the scapula should be well tilted backwards by elevating the arm, or, the patient should be kept in the recumbent position. When this practice cannot be followed, the elbow should be brought forward to a point below the nipple of the affected side and the hand drawn over the opposite shoulder. The old plan of fixing the pad in the axilla and using a figure-of-eight bandage is of no benefit, and, moreover, causes much discomfort to the patient. The axillary pad of Desault is, at times serviceable, and may be em- ployed, being easily fixed by a broad piece of strapping made to encircle the shoulder. In addition to the pad, Professor Gordon, of Belfast (‘ Dublin Quart.,’ 1S59), recommends the injured arm to be extended down- wards and firmly fixed to the body by a bandage, permanent extension being kept up by means of a band fastened above to the forearm flexed at right angles, and below, around the perinteum or upper part of the thigh. Fractures of the scapula, probably, are always the result of direct vio- lence, although a fracture of its neck may be produced by a fall upon the shoulder. Fig. 479. Scapula. Fracture of scapula. Prep. 109720, Guy’s Mus.