DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 361 a swollen condition of the limb remains. These dislocations are readily Treatment, diagnosed by the peculiar deformity they display, and are easily reduced, by extension and the application of pressure, where pressure is needed. In the case from which Fig. 464 was taken, pulsation in the vessels was arrested, but it returned on the reduction of the dislocation, and recovery with complete movement of the joint was obtained. After the parts have been replaced in their normal position, splints should be adjusted and cold applied, for secondary inflammation is almost sure to follow. Compound dislocations of the knee are generally so serious as to Compound necessitate the removal of the joint. The attempt to save it should only dislocation of be made in exceptional cases—amputation or excision may be selected. nee‘ Dislocation of the head of the fibula is occasionally met with. I Dislocation have seen but three examples, one when dressing for the late Mr. ofh®"1 of Aston Key, and two since. It is generally caused by some violent adduction of the foot with abduction of the knee, the head of the fibula tearing through its ligamentous attachments and becoming displaced Diagnosis, outwards. The accident can be readily recognised by the projection of the bone. It should be treated by the application of a pad and pres- sure over the part, sufficient to keep the bone in its place, the limb being flexed when necessary, to relax the biceps femoris. The pressure should be maintained for at least two months if good success is to be looked for; as a rule, the bone never quite resumes its former position, the head projecting more than usual. This deformity, however, does not appear to weaken the limb to any great extent. Dislocation of the interarticular fibro-cartilages (semilunar) is a Dislocation recognised accident. It is produced by some sudden twist of the knee of ,llc with the foot everted, and generally in subjects who have relaxed int®rarjicular joints, or such as have been the seat of some chronic synovitis. 8 The inner cartilage seems more liable to displacement than the outer. The symptoms of the accident are well marked. A patient when Symptoms, walking, accidentally catches his foot against a stone, or in rising from a kneeling position is seized with a sudden, sharp, sickening pain in the knee; the joint becomes at once fixed in a semi-flexed position, and any attempt to move it excites some pain. When the first agony has subsided, a painful spot is usually left, and there the projecting cartilage may be felt or even seen, and, if the “ internal derangement of the joint,'” as it was originally called, is left untreated, synovitis or effusion into the joint will soon show itself. When these symptoms follow such an accident as has been described, the cartilage has pro- bably been torn from its attachment to the tibia and been doubled in or displaced. Treatment.—1The best practice consists in the forced flexion of the Treatment joint, the slight rotation of the leg outwards, and sudden extension, thereof. When success attends this manoeuvre, the joint moves smoothly and without pain, and the patient will at once be able to move the joint freely. At times, the reduction of the displaced cartilage is attended with a decided snap. After its reduction, the joint should be kept in a splint, and such means employed as the symptoms that follow indicate, for more or less inflammation often ensues, requiring ice, cold lotions', leeching, and rest. When these have also subsided it is well to restrain the movements of the joint by means of a knee-cap or strapping, as a