185 HYDROCELE. nately. Curling informs us that of 115 cases, 65 occurred on the right, 44 on the left side, and 6 were double ; while out of 117, my own cases, consecutively observed in which these facts were noted, 41 occurred on the right side, 62 on the left, and 14 were double, results coin- ciding with the opinions of Velpeau, Gerdy, and others. By way of summary it may he said, a chronic vaginal hydrocele General appears as a painless enlargement of the testicle, of slow and unequal growth, and of variable size, with a smooth and uniform sur- face, and more or less tense and fluctuating feel. It is invariably moveable within the scrotum, and, as a rule, appears to he distinct from any abdominal connections. The presence of the testis within the swelling can generally be made out by the testicular pain, which is produced by pressure at its posterior and upper portion, if the tumour be large, and at its lower if small; or by the absence of translucency at one spot—the tumour, as a rule, transmitting light when its scrotal coverings have been well stretched. It has a tendency to remain tranquil for many years, and by age simply increases in size. It occasionally grows to enormous dimensions, when the penis may become buried within the swelling; but never proves dangerous to life. It causes pain and requires treatment mainly from mechanical causes. Hydrocele of the Cord.—It has been already briefly explained how a Hydrorele of hydrocele of the cord may be produced, and under what circumstances cord> it may appeal- as a diffused or a so-called encysted tumour. It has likewise been shown, how these two conditions are but modifications of diagnosis, the same disease, the difluseness or isolation of the affections being determined by the adhesion, or more or less complete closure of the vaginal process of peritoneum as it passes downwards into the scrotum. Thus, a congenital hydrocele of the cord will be present, when, from a Congenital, want of closure at the abdominal orifice of the vaginal peritoneal pro- cess, serous fluid can gravitate downwards as far as the external ring, where the canal is obliterated; and a diffused hydrocele of the cord will be said to exist when, either at an early or late period of life, serous Diffused, fluid collects in the vaginal process closed at the internal ring and between it and the external ring or upper portion of the testis; while in a third class of cases an encysted hydrocele of the cord may appear as a Encvstcd. small isolated bag of serous fluid moveable with the cord and connected with it, situated between any of these points, its circumscribed nature having been determined by a more complete closure of the vaginal Pathology, peritoneal process, and the limited space into which the effusion has taken place. Under all these conditions, however, the pathology of the affection Symptoms, is the same, and the symptoms indicating its presence vary only ac- cording to the size and tension of the sac which contains the fluid. In the congenital form in which a communication exists with the peri- toneal cavity, the hydrocele will fluctuate and have a smooth and uniform outline, but it can never be tense. It will also disappear more or less readily by pressure, or by elevating the testicle on the patient assuming the recumbent position, when the fluid will gravitate into the abdominal cavity, with a rapidity which varies according to the size of the peritoneal communication. In the diffused hydrocele of the cord, this disappearance of the swell- ing by rest or pressure will not take place, for in such, the opening of