LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 495 dilatation of the synovial folds, or perhaps to distension and coagula- tion within obstructed follicles. But whether originating in one or all of these various ways, being all in common due to changes in the synovial membrane and sub-synovial tissue, it is evident that they are loose cartilages in miniature, and only want size and the further change into cartilaginous matter to be true loose cartilages. But I have lately had an opportunity of making a very careful examination of some of these ‘ melon-seed bodies ’ from one of the sheaths of a tendon on Melon-seed the dorsum of the hand, which suggested the possibility, not to say bodles- probability, of another mode of origin. I failed to find in any of them any evidence of organized tissue whatever. They contained no nuclei or cell-elements, and were entirely composed of a faintly fibrillated hyaline substance characteristic of coagulated mucus or fibrin. Hence it seems to be quite possible that loose cartilages may originate in a nucleus of fibrin precipitated in the course of a chronic inflammation, and that they subsequently grow by accretion, becoming calcareous by central petrifaction. On this point may be consulted a very interesting case of loose body in the peritoneum, recorded in the ‘ Path. Soc. Trans/ by Dr. Greenhow, vol. xxiii, p. 241. This specimen, in conjunction with * melon-seed bodies, makes one reconsider whether the opinion formed originally by John Hunter may not be correct, that loose bodies in the joints are sometimes formed from the ‘ living principle of the blood/”1 Loose bodies, however formed, give rise to very similar symptoms. Symptoms, produced by the foreign body becoming fixed and pinched between the articular surfaces of the bones. The presence of one of them is usually discovered when the patient is walking or moving the joint, by some sudden inability to move the articulation and a severe and sickening pain, which is relieved only by the cartilage slipping from between the bones, which it usually does by a characteristic snap. Some stiffness and slight inflammation of the joint may follow this Effects. ; injury, which by rest and treatment will subside in a few days, to be renewed upon a recurrence of the accident. In such a joint as the knee, the cartilage as often as not may be felt on manipulation, although readily slipping away under pressure. The treatment may be described as palliative or operative. By the Treatment. ( former, the cartilage is left untouched in the articulation ; and by the . latter it is removed or fixed in an unoffending position. In a general way the palliative treatment is the correct one to be enforced, for knowing Palliative, how destructive inflammation of a joint following a wound too often i proves, few surgeons would venture upon an operation without an absolute necessity, and such seldom exists, for by restraining the move- ments of the joint by some leather, felt, or other light casing, the foreign body may become fixed and consequently innocuous; indeed, ' by such treatment, Hilton has shown (‘ Guy’s Reports,’ 1868) that 1 these cartilages may become absorbed. He fixes the loose body by May be means of a pad and strapping at the most convenient spot, and places absorbed, the limb upon a splint. By this practice, pain is preveuted, the peduncle of the cartilage cannot be stretched, nor the cartilage slip between the i semi-flexed bones. In 1877, I thus treated a woman who had a loose • For further information vide Virchow’s ‘ Krankluiftcn Geschwiilste ’ vol i • Marsh I. ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Reports.’ ’ ’ ’