230 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF FEMALE GENITALS. Abscess. Cysts in labium. Treatment. Sebaceous tumours. Hypertrophy of labium. Cancer of labium. F.pitlieliuni 01 clitoris. Galvanic cautery. Galvanic ecraseur. Labial abscesses form at times as a result of a softened thrombus but more frequently from follicular inflammation. They are very pain- ful and ought to be opened early. Occasionally they are the conse- quence of an inflamed cyst. Labial cysts are very common, and are usually met with on the inner side of the labia. They are similar in their nature to the mu- cous cysts found in the mouth or about the tongue, and are formed in the same way by the obstruction of the ducts of the mucous glands of the parts. They appear as chronic painless swellings producing only mechanical inconvenience; but if neglected, they may inflame and suppurate. On manipulation, they feel tense, globular, and semifluc- tuating, and contain a glairy brown or blood-stained fluid, at times with cholesterine. They are to be treated by excision, or the removal of the presenting surface of the cyst by a pair of forceps and scissors, the removal of one wall exposing the other, which contracts. Excision, however, is the safest practice. When an opening into the cyst is made, the cavity should be plugged with lint, or with lint soaked in tincture of iodine—this fluid exciting adhesive action or suppuration in the cyst wall. Mucous cysts, like these, are also found in the vagina. The internal labia may also be the seat of sebaceous tumours, and of a solid oedema or hypertrophy similar to that seen in the male scrotum not unlike elephantiasis, and grow to a large size. Nothing but their removal can be entertained. Some time since I removed with the galvanic ecraseur from a middle-aged woman, both labia which had attained the size of a cocoa-nut without the loss of a drop of blood, alter having isolated the growths by long pins inserted through their bases, and passed the wire round the pins. When this instrument cannot he obtained, the knife must be employed. Such tumours are highly vascular, and the surgeon requires good assistants in their removal. Cancerous tumours, both epithelial and otherwise, of these parts are also met with, and are known by their ordinary features; they should be treated by removal. It seems that cancer is prone to appear in these regions at an earlier period of life than in others. In 1869 I removed a well-marked cancerous tumour from the labium of a woman only thirty-two years of age. Epithelial disease of the clitoris occurs at times, and I have seen several well-marked cases, hut more commonly it attacks the inner labia and orifice of the vagina. In such cases the benefit of the galvanic cautery is well illustrated, for the removal of these growths by exci- sion is very difficult, and always attended with copious bleeding. When the whole growth cannot be isolated, as much as possible should be ex- cised or scraped off, and the cautery freely applied to the surface and base of what remains. Where the growth can be isolated by the intro- duction of long pins beneath its base and a wire adjusted beneath the pins the galvanic ecraseur, not made too hot and slowly worked, is an admirable instrument to employ. By its means I have success- fully removed on several occasions without the loss of a drop of blood an epithelial cancer occupying the fourchette of the vagina, encroach- ing on the passage and the perinseum. The patients were under chloroform during the operation and felt no pain; the after-pain in these cases being always slight, the cautery entirely destroying the sensibility of the divided parts. Wounds so made heal kindly.