OPERATION FOR RUPTURED PERIN2EUH. 233 will not unite. At least an inch of raw surface should be made from the recto-vaginal septum forward, the width of the bared surface dimin- ishing slightly towards the anterior portion of the labia. Having thus mapped the parts out for removal, the best plan is to perforate the tissues towards their centre and then cut outwards, the right half being first treated and then the left (Pig. 389). Not a remnant of the mucous membrane should be left. If bleeding follows, the larger arteries may be twisted while a little pressure soon controls the smaller. The second step of the operation, or the introduction of the sutures. Introduction remains to be performed, and it is of no less importance than the first. The sutures should he introduced when the quill is used, at least an iuch from the margin of the wound, and when gut alone is employed, a quarter of an inch, the one nearest the rectum being first inserted. When the recto-vaginal septum is involved, the introduction of this suture is of primary importance. It should be passed deeply through the left side of the wound rather behind the level of the septum, through the tissues and the septum, and out at a corresponding point on the right side, being completely buried in its whole course, the object being to draw the septum well forward (Vide Fig. 389.) A second aud a third may then be in- troduced as indicated in the ... / drawing. v W J A quill suture is probably Quill suture the best to use, and good | :'A®' m. m preferable, fisliing-gut the best material. M /cX ’- V (Vide Fig. 37.) A needle, such •' is' $ as that seen in Fig. 389 is the ' A (j? % one I now usually employ. It -.■saats- ^ is curved ou the Hat so as not to cut the recto-vaginal septum (•, k toHhIb i in its passage, and has an eye iu its point to admit the double suture. The parts should be pressed together firmly after their apposition, and several superficial sutures of silk or Jp-* \ \ ' ‘ gut may he introduced. If Or ' V\V\ \ ■ there he much spasm of the jSsfe 1 YY\ ' sphincter, a division of the j \ \\ superficial fibres of the muscle .•£ C'^l /II at its posterior margin or l two lateral notches may be f ; | ^ made. I have done this, only 0 ' '■ in exceptional cases. Operation for ruptured perinaeum. After the operation is completed, the fingers should be introduced After- iuto the vagina and rectum to assure the operator that the parts are treatment, in apposition, and, when auy blood has passed into the vagina the passage should be syringed. A morphia suppository may then be placed in the rectum to relieve pain and spasm, and to lock up the bowels. r The patient ought then to be removed to bed and the legs should be