52 PERINEPHRITIS. Treatment of chronic nephritis. On perinephritis. tlie hot-air bath or steam bath applied to the patient in bed is a valu- able means to this end ; a hot bath is a good substitute; while calomel and antimony cannot be recommended. When the case passes into the chronic stage, counter-irritation becomes of value, and as this cannot be obtained by means of blisters, since cantharides acts powerfully on the kidneys, mustard may be em- ployed, or a piece of lint saturated with a mixture of chloroform and alcohol applied to the loin and covered with oil silk. Dry cupping, also, is of great value. When acute nephritis supervenes upon the chronic form the result of long-standing disease of the urinary organs, or, after operation, the whole aim of practice must be to soothe, relieve pain, and keep life going. Nothing like mechanical interference with the urinary passages must be thought of. Retention of urine should, of course, be relieved, but the utmost gentleness ought to be employed in the manipulation. These cases are, as a rule, very hopeless. In chronic nephritis the result of local disease, there can be little doubt that the best practice is the removal of the cause. When a stone in the bladder has set up the mischief it should be removed, and by that mode which induces the least local irritation. When a stric- ture of the urethra has been the cause, it should be dilated, for as long as the local cause of the disease exists no recovery can be looked for. When calculus in the kidney is the local irritant, the surgeon’s aim must be to allay local irritation by keeping the patient quiet, and administering soothing remedies; the alkaline potash salts being pre- scribed where the urine indicates uric-acid calculus, and the mineral acids when the urine is phosphatic. The removal of the stone by operation may also be entertained. When suppuration of the kidney takes place, with or without a calculus, and any external evidence of the abscess exists, an opening should be made; though it is a moot question with surgeons at the present day whether it is not better practice to anticipate this pointing by an early incision. When the urine is full of pus, the preparations of buchu are of un- doubted value, and the mineral acids or the preparations of iron of use. Warm baths and diaphoretics to induce free action of the skin, and by these means to relieve the kidney, with a supply of simple nutritious food and stimulants only when absolutely required, make up the treat- ment. Perinephritis is an affection that must be recognised, and, although it may be more frequently found in connection with suppuration of the kidney, it is at times independent of it. It is indicated by a sudden pain in the loin, fever, and subsequently lumbar swelling, with fre- quently cedema of the integuments of the loin. The pain is at times constant and persistent, while at others it may appear and then disappear for an uncertain interval, to recur spontaneously in all its severity. The urine in an uncomplicated case is generally natural, and if at all altered, scanty; renal symptoms, so-called, being absent. When the case is left to nature, the inflammation may attack the chest and induce a fatal pleurisy, or the abscess may burst into the bowel or externally, burrowing beneath the fascia covering the psoas muscle and showing itself in the thigh or pointing in the loin. The surgeon should not, however, leave these cases to nature, but cut down upon the