512 NECROSIS OF BONES. Drilling. Trephining. On necrosis. Causes. Process of exfoliation. Holmes’s description, any effect, and the same means that have been recommended for periostitis may be tried in this. In a general way, however, they'do little more than give relief and have but slight effect on the pro- gress of the disease, it being far too common for a bone in a state of chronic inflammation to become necrosed. When treated early, how- ever, success is not unfrequent. When the disease is steadily progress- ing and remedies appear to have no influence on its progress, the operation of drilling the bone in one or more points according to the extent of the disease, is an operation to be recommended; when this fails, that of trephining may be employed, for if taking away a piece of bone or drilling it does not arrest the disease, which it undoubtedly often does, it at any rate gives relief to local pain. Pain in endostitis or periostitis is due to tension caused by pent-up inflam- matory effusion, whether fibrinous, purulent, or serous, and relief can only be afforded by its removal. When a new growth, cystic or other- wise occupies the centre of a bone, a like pain is however experienced. Necrosis means the death of bone, the result of periostitis or endostitis, and it may be of the shell or compact tissue, of the inside or cancellous tissue, or of both combined. It may occur idiopathically without known cause, or as the result of fever, injury from sprain, concussion, contusion, fracture, or gunshot wound. As a consequence of acute inflammation, bone may die rapidly. I have already related a case in which local necrosis of the articular extremity of the tibia took place in six weeks, and it is well known that phalanges necrose and exfoliate in five or six; in fact, in acute necrosis, a month or six weeks is full time for bone to die and be thrown off. In the necrosis of the lower jaw from phosphorus, the same truth is exemplified. When a bone dies from inflammation, it does so usually from the acute form ; the chronic action being shown in the process of exfoliation, i. e. in the separation of the dead from the living bone; for in this process, a considerable time is often expended, no definite period having been hitherto recog- nised, as its rapidity differs in every case. The process of exfoliation is a very beautiful one and is the same in bone as in the soft parts, only slower. “ When a portion of bone is to die,” writes Holmes in an admirable article in his ‘ System,’ vol. iii, “ the first phenomena is the cessation of circulation in it. This leaves it hard, white, and sonorous when struck. It does not bleed when exposed or cut into, and is insensible. Occasionally, when the dead bone is exposed to the air, and acted on by the presence of putrid pus, its colour becomes nearly or quite black; large surfaces of hard, black, necrosed bone are sometimes left ex- posed by the sloughing of the skin over the tibia. The dead bone at first retains its connection to tbe bone around, as well as to the peri- osteum or whatever part of the nutrient membrane may belong to it; but the presence of a dead part is never long tolerated by the living tissues, and accordingly the processes which are to eliminate it soon become perceptible in both these structures. The periosteum or me- dullary membrane, as the case may be, separates from the dead bone and becomes inflamed, a quantity of ossific deposit (more or less, ac- cording to circumstances) is poured out between it and the dead bone, and this deposit soon becomes converted into new bone, forming a