ABSCESS OF THE BREAST. 242 Warm applications. Treatment chronic abscess of breast. Pressure. of gentle manipulation is absolutely called for to enable the surgeon to form an opinion, but the eye, and not the finger, is the chief guide. Much manipulation of the gland is both painful and injurious, and an absolute abandonment of all local surgical treatment can only be condemned. Warm fomentations in all stages of the disease are very grateful to the patient, and may be freely used; and when early suppuration threatens, a light linseed poultice is probably the best application. When the abscess has discharged, the poultice may be laid aside, and wet lint alone employed, as constant poulticing soddens the integument and retards the process of convalesence. On the treatment of chronic abscess of the breast. The existence of a chronic abscess having been made out—a point, by- the-bye, which willbe returned to when the subject of the diagnosis of a mammary tumour is discussed—it becomes an important question what treatment should be pursued. When the abscess is small, causing little or no annoyance, it may be left alone, and, under the influence of tonics and local pressure by means of strapping, the fluid may be absorbed, and such a result is occasionally brought about. In the majority of examples, however, some more active treatment is necessary, and of these the evacuation of the pus is the chief point. If the abscess is large and deeply seated— a common condition—the drawing off of its contents by means of a trocar and canula is the usual practice and is generally believed to Evacuation of p,e pcst. put it has this disadvantage, that the wound generally soon closes, and a second operation is required. The same treatment may be again resorted to with the same results, and this drawing off of the pus and the subsequent closure of the wound may go on for many times. At last, however, the opening remains patent, and the abscess contracts, leaving a sinus in the majority of cases. Under these circum- stances, a bolder plan of treatment seems absolutely demanded, as time is an important element in the consideration of any plan of treat- Eree incision, ment. The best method appears to be a free opening at the first operation, the surgeon subsequently inserting a strip of oiled lint into the cavity of the abscess for a few hours to prevent the wound closing. Submammary Abscess. I' io. 395. Abscesses occasionally form behind the breast gland over the pectoral muscle, and when they do, the gland is pushed forward in a way that is cha- racteristic. The abscess (Pig- 395), as a rule, points below the breast. Such abscesses should be opened iu the most depen- dent position as soon as any indication of fluctuation can be made out. This disease is very slow in its progress. On the treatment of sinuses. The treatment of sinuses the breast, as elsewhere. the pus by trocar.. On submammary abscess. Treatment of sinuses. in Submammary abscess. Drawing 401'13, Guy’s Mus., Birkett’s case. is always a task of difficulty, and in certain cases all plans