ON FRACTURES. 378 In field. When on couch. Sand hags. Setting a fracture. Extension and counter- extension. carried home and placed in a position in which he is to be treated. When the lower extremity is the affected part, the injured limb may be bound to the sound one, the latter acting as a splint. In compound fracture, the same precautions are necessary. Bleeding should be arrested by the application over the wound of a pad or bandage kept in position by means of pressure and the elevation of the limb, while in more severe cases the tourniquet or some local pressure over the main artery may be called for. If these precautions are not observed on the field, many lives are lost from haemorrhage, simple fractures are turned into compound, while compound fractures are made worse. When a patient is placed in bed where he is to be treated, the frac- ture ought to be manipulated, and its ‘position, nature, and peculiar tendency made out, and when made out to be “ set,” or put up, at once. The only exception to this rule is, when time has been allowed to pass before treatment is commenced and much oedema or swelling of the injured extremity exists, then it is better to fix the injured limb raised upon a pillow with a long sand bag on either side to act as a splint, and possibly a third round the foot, the pillow and side sand bags being firmly bound together by a strip of bandage and the whole forming an immoveable apparatus. Mr. Aston Key, indeed, was so fond of this mode of putting up fracture of the leg that in my “ dresser” days it was the usual mode of treating them all through their course, that is, for the first month or five weeks, till they could be put up in some starch or other immoveable apparatus, and the patient allowed to get up. The method is comfortable and satisfactory to the patient, but it wants closer attention on the part of the surgeon than can often be given. In “ setting” a fracture some care is needed, and the opposite and corresponding limb should always be before the surgeon as a guide. Inquiries should also be made as to the condition of the limb before the accident, whether it was deformed or shortened from any previous fracture or disease, congenital or otherwise, for I have known an injured leg to have been likewise violently and unnecessarily manipulated to restore a supposed fractured bone to a position that it could not be made to assume on account of some natural deformity, and likewise a fractured thigh subjected to like rough treatment to bring it down to the level of its fellow, when au irremediable shortening existed from a former fracture. In extending a broken limb to restore the bones to their normal posi- tion, the upper portion should be firmly held by an assistant—to make counter-extension—and the muscles attached to it relaxed by placing the limb in a slightly flexed position; a second assistant or the sur- geon may then extend the fractured end, while the latter gently mani- pulates the fracture to make out its points. The extension should be steady and free from all jerks and violent movement, gentle lateral, rotatory, or other movements being given as required to restore the displaced portion of bone ; the pressure of the thumb or finger being freely used to bring about an accurate co-aptation or setting of the fragments; for the surgeon must remember that muscular contraction is better overcome by continued extension than by temporary force, and that for the treatment of fractures generally, moderate extension continuously applied is preferable to forcible extension in any of