ON UNUNITED FRACTURES. 387 muscle or fascia is placed between the broken fragments. In feeble cachectic and syphilitic subjects the same want of repair may like- wise be met with. Failures in the reparative process depend therefore on some failure in the general power of the patient, want of care in the local treatment of the case, or on some local cause. The union, however, is, as a rule, simply delayed. Hamilton calculates that such delayed union occurs once in 500 Statistics, cases, but this average I believe to be too high. It is chiefly found, Most according to Norris (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,’ 1842), in the frequent seat, thigh, leg, arm, forearm, and lower jaw. I have seen it, however, in the clavicle and in the ribs, and cases are recorded in which it was met with in the spine. In the majority of cases, the union of the broken bones is by fibrous tissue which has failed to ossify. In Prep. 111080, Guy’s Museum, this condition is well exemplified, the ends of the bone being pointed and firmly joined by ligamentous tissue. The length of this tissue varies in different cases. In exceptional instances, the ends of the bone are rounded and enclosed by a strong capsular ligament, and thus a false joint is formed, which is well exemplified in a specimen of frac- ture of the forearm (Guy's Mu- seum, 1119 s0), but still better in that of the humerus (Prep. 111085), Fig. 477) in which the ends of the bone are studded with fibro-cartilage, and com- plete movement existed. In more rare cases there is a total absence of all uniting medium. Treatment.—Regarding a large majority of cases of un- united fracture, as examples of delayed union, due to a want of that absolute immobility of the fractured limb which is so essential for its repair, the most essential point to be observed in treatment is, the application of an absolutely immoveable appa- ratus, which may be found in one of the forms of splint described as Immobility, immoveable, such as that of starch, egg and flour, chalk, plaster of Paris, or liquid glass, with gutta percha, millboard, zinc, or felt; the joints above and below the broken bone being included in the apparatus, while tonic constitutional treatment is at the same time observed. When the limb is thus firmly fixed, rest and the non-use of the limb is scarcely necessary; indeed, under certain circumstances, the moderate use of the limb seems to be beneficial, and in several cases under my care, repair seems to have been hastened by such a licence. John Hunter saw the truth embodied in these remarks, having asserted in 1787: * When the uniting process in fractures is backwards, the