FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 417 Fractures through the trochanter occasionally occur. Sir A. Cooper Fracture describes them as oblique fractures not implicating the neck of the bone, and can be made out by the immobility of the lower portion Fig. 508. Fig. 509. Fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsule, repair of fracture by means of bone, fibrous tissue anil Femur of the opposite side, showing fibro-cartilage; absorption of the neck the amount of bone absorbed, of the bone. Prep, removed from woman, set. 60, who had received the injury five years before. of the bone whilst the upper part is fixed, and by the other signs of fracture, such as crepitus, &c. They should be treated like fractures of the neck. Separation of the epiphysis of the head of the bone has been de- Separation of scribed. South has recorded such cases iu his ‘ Chelius’s Surgery,’ and epiphysis of Post, of New York, in the ‘ New York Journal,’ vol. iii, but no pre- **ead- paration exists to demonstrate the fact. It is, doubtless, possible in the young, and would be known by some such symptoms as those of fracture of the neck, crepitus being exchanged for what South calls a “ distinct dummy sensation ” on rotating and extending the limb. As a consequence of disease, it will be described in a later chapter. Separation of the epiphysis of the trochanter major is a more definite Of epiphysis accident, and doubtless has occurred. Sir A. Cooper recorded a case of great which Mr. Aston Key had observed, and the diagnosis was verified trochanter, after death. In it, the detached fragment, however, was not displaced but held in position by means of its fibrous and tendinous coverings; and was the result of direct local violence j abduction of the limb caused great pain, but all other movements were allowed. The preparation exists in the Guy’s Museum, 1195, and is figured below (Fig. 510). A like case occurred in the practice of the late Mr. Poland, at Guy’s, in 1871, which through his kindness I saw. It occurred in a boy, mt. 12, from a direct blow, and was characterised by a projection and thicken- VOL. II. 27