DISLOCATIONS OF SCAPULA. 335 the notes also of a second case that came under my care in 1863, in a man, set. 35, produced by a fall on the shoulder. In the Guy’s Museum (129290) there is a specimen of dislocation of the clavicle at its sternal end upwards and forwards. Treatment.—In the treatment of this as of the last form of disloca- Treatment, tion, there is no difficulty in reducing it by drawing outwards the shoulders and applying pressure upon the bone, but there is much in keeping the bone in position. The best means, however, are the applica- tion of a pad over the hone, the firm pressure of the scapula against the ribs by means of broad hands of strapping, and the supine position. Under all circumstances, the surgeon may comfort the patient by the assurance, that good and useful movement of the arm will be secured. Overhand movements, however, will always be difficult. Dislocation backwards stands next in point of rarity to that of Dislocation dislocation upwards, and is usually caused by violence, forcing the backwards, shoulder, forwards or by direct force. I have seen but one such case, Examples, in a man, set. 52, who was crushed by falling bricks, and in it the dis- location was self-reduced on the second day, when the man was in bed. The displaced clavicle presses at times upon the trachea and oesophagus, so as to interfere with respiration and deglutition. In 1845, a sailor, set. 17, was admitted into Guy’s with such an injury, the dislocation having been caused by a blow on the shoulder. It was easily reduced by drawing the shoulders back, and maintained in situ without diffi- culty. Cases of this kind have been recorded by Mr. Brown, of Cal- lington (‘ Med. Gaz.’, 1845), and M. Pellieux, 1834 (‘ Revue Medicale.’ In one singular case recorded by Sir A. Cooper, the dislocation was produced by curvature of the spine, and Mr. Davie, of Bungay, excised the sternal end of the displaced bone to prevent death from suf- focation. Mr. C. De Morgan has recorded a case in ‘ Holmes’s System,’ vol. ii, p. 805, in which, in a girl, set. 10, the bone was thus) displaced and successfully treated by means of a splint across the shoulder, with a pad between it and the spine, the shoulders being drawn to the splint by a bandage and the child kept in bed. The splint was removed at the end of a fortnight, and the articulation in four weeks became as firm as that on the other side; the arm, moreover, could he moved with- out causing any pain. Dislocation of the Scapula was formerly called dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle; but Dislocation of as the clavicle is a fixed point, it seems only consistent with common scapula, or sense, although not with custom, to follow Skey, Maclise, and Flower, lIisIoCfltjon of and call what have hitherto been described as dislocations of the aero- of davide™1 mial end of the clavicle, dislocations of the scapula. In the more usual form of this accident, the acromion process of the scapula is forced beneath the clavicle. In rare cases, it may be re- ceived above it. Both are commonly caused by direct violence to the p shoulder. Lauses. The symptoms are well marked in both forms; the falling of the Symptoms shoulder and projection upwards of the acromial end of the clavicle in one (Fig. 433), and the projection upwards of the acromion process of the scapula in the other, prevent any mistake heina made. 8 Ireatment. In the dislocation of the scapula downwards, the