ANESTHETICS. 566 Clover’s. Bichloride of methyline. Advantages claimed for it. A. C. E. mix- ture. Nitrous oxide. After- treatment. Ancesthetic3 as aids to diagnosis. Clover’s apparatus is, however, very good when it can be ob- tained. It is composed of an india-rubber bag into which chloroform or any other anaesthetic is pumped, mixed with atmospheric air. Clover employs 3 or 4 per cent, of chloroform. It is, however, a cumbersome apparatus, and cannot be at universal command. When he gives nitrous oxide gas at first and follows it up by ether, his apparatus is equally satisfactory. For ether or the anaesthetic A. C. E. mixture the leather bottle-shaped apparatus, as suggested by Dr. Golding Bird, or the one figured above as made for Mr. Rendle and improved by Morris (Fig. 607) is very valuable. The bichloride of methyline is recommended to our notice as an anaesthetic of great power. Patients are said to be brought under the influence of the drug in twenty or thirty seconds, and to recover from it rapidly with little inconvenience. No sickness or headache is said to follow its use, unless the inhalation has been continued for many minutes, or a second dose is given to keep up the effect. Of course, if the inhalation be prolonged, the after-effects resemble, though in a less degree, those of chloroform, save the one—absence of muscular excitement. “ The rapidity of action of the drug and recovery appears,” writes Rendle, “ to be due to the great volatility and solubility, enabling a large quantity to reach and escape from the nerve organs at once; its safety, to its rather stimulant action on the heart, and its rapid elimination.” The bichloride being very volatile, requires to be kept in a well-stoppered bottle•, and it is an advantage to keep it in the dark, inverted under water. Mr. Rendle claims for its use the following advantages:—The patients retain their normal colour and appearance,- the anaesthesia is good, is rapidly induced, and can be maintained for any length of time; the recovery is rapid and complete ; there is no unpleasant after- symptoms, nor muscular rigidity. He says it is also at least as safe as chloroform. At Guy’s Hospital, it is in common use for eye surgery, where a few minutes are only required for the anaesthesia, but in the wards generally chloroform or ether is the favourite. In abdominal surgery, such as ovariotomy, Keith has said that ethe is less prone to be followed by sickness than chloroform, and, if the success of an operation is any argument in its favour, Keith’s must be quoted. I have for some years employed the mixture recommended by the Chloroform Committee—of Alcohol, Chloroform, and Ether— and think well of it. I believe it to be as good as chloroform, and less likely than any other to be followed by that bane of all anaesthetics, vomiting. In the operations of dentistry and all short measures, the nitrous oxide gas is of great value. After the use of any anaesthetic, everything should be given cold for twelve or twenty-four hours to prevent sickness j ice, indeed, may be sucked with advantage; and ice and milk is a very favourite mixture, If hot food be given, vomiting is far more likely to appear, or to be aggravated. Anaesthetics, however, have other uses than the destruction of pain. As aids to diagnosis they are of priceless value, both to the physician and surgeon. To the surgeon they have also opened up new fields for his scientific art which were formerly but little known. I shall point