406 COMPOUND FRACTURES OF PHALANGEAL JOINTS. Stromeyer’s Corraac). With a firmly united bone and a good sound arm. In such a case as that represented in Pig. 496, where displacement of the lower epiphysis of the radius and dislocation of the ulna existed, amputation was demanded. I have little to add to what has already been given in the way of Stromeyer’s treatment of compound fracture of the humerus beyond an allusion cushion. to Stromeyer’s cushion, which commends itself to attention as much by the eminence of its advocate as by its usefulness. It was introduced to our notice by Mr. William MacCormac (Pig. 497). The cushion may be described as triangular and wedge-shaped. At its thickest end it measures four inches in depth, and from this point gradually thins down for a length of fourteen or fifteen inches. The elbow rests on the thick eud, while the thin rests on the side of the chest. The cushion is readily fast- Fm. 497. ened in its place by a tape round the neck and the body; and when this simple apparatus is applied, the arm rests beautifully sup- ported and in excellent position. Whilst lying in bed nothing beyond the irdinary dressings are re- quired for the wound, and, of the patient has to be transported from one place to another, or is fit to walk about, this can be arranged with the utmost facility, as cushion, arm and all cau be bound by a broad bandage to the body and thus form an immoveable whole. Stromeyer considered this cushion to be “ the most valuable appliance he had invented during his life.” I have used it for fracture and dis- location of the humerus and shoulder-joint disease, with great advantage, and have adapted straps to it to hold the arm and forearm in position. Compound dislocation and fracture of the phalangeal joints require a distinct consideration, and the slight constitutional symptoms which such injuries induce, enable the surgeon to treat them on purely local considerations. To dwell on the importance of the integrity of the hand as a whole, or to adduce arguments to show the necessity of saving as much as possible of the thumb and fingers is unnecessai’y, since these rules of practice are now acknowledged; yet such have their limit, as anchylosis of some of these joints may prove an impediment rather than an advantage to the free use of the haud, and, while a stiff finger to a man in one business may be most detrimental, in another, if bent it may be of service. juumu no With the thumb, however, the above rule may be considered abso- preserved at lute, and an attempt should invariably be made to save the joints and all hazards. as much as possible of the injured parts ; it being often better in com- pound fractures to leave the bone to granulate than to remove it, for the use which may be made of the stump of a thumb, or of one fixed by anchylosis, can only be appreciated by those who have beeu fortu- nate enough to witness such instances. cushion (from Mac straps applied. Compound dislocation with fracture of phalanges. Thumb to be