55 SUPPRESSION OP URINE. should only he employed when an absolute necessity exists, and opium in full doses fails to give relief. Urethral htemorrhage rarely continues for any time, or requires for its treatment more than rest in the horizontal posture, unless caused by some laceration of the urethra or more severe injury. Pig. 319a. Suppression of Urine is the result of renal disease. The kidneys cease to fulfil their functions, On and the constituents of the urine being left in the blood give rise to suppression coma and possibly to convulsions and death. Uraemia or uraemic ofuriue- poisoning is then said to be the cause of death. It may occur at any stage of kidney disease, and not uncommonly follows an operation per- formed on a patient the subject of such an affection; it is a result to be taken into calculation where albuminous urine exists before under- taking any operation. In exceptional cases, however, suppression of urine occurs when no such chronic mischief can be detected, coming on suddenly, as it often does, without cause, and leaving as suddenly without any reason. I once saw a musician who secreted no urine for sixty hours, and then passed what seemed to be a natural quantity; his only other symptoms being those of slight feverishness and headache. In such cases, the hot air, vapour, or warm bath are the best remedies. Stone in the kidney is not an uncommon affection, though generally On stone in painful and often fatal. When the stone becomes impacted in the organ t*ie kidney, and ceases to be movable, it does not give rise to any marked symptoms, and, comparatively speaking, ceases to interfere with life; more fre- quently, however, it often excites much local irritation, if not suppura- tion, and usually kills by destroying the kidney which becomes a sup- purating cyst. Small stones are constantly formed in the kidney and passed through the ureter into the bladder. Large stones may so in- crease as to form a cast of the pelvis of the kidney (Fig. 336), and at times attain enormous dimensions. The symptoms of stone in the kidney are, a tendency to rigor, lumbar Symptoms of pain increased by riding or any jolting of the body, the pain passing stone in the down the groin into the testicle of the affected side and causing its re- and traction, irritable bladder, and blood in the urine. Dr. Owen Rees ^ ^ has pointed out the value of the tincture of galls, added guttatim to the urine of patients who may be suspected to be suffering from renal calculus, this tincture producing an immediate flocculeut precipitate of a light brown colour when any of the extractive matters of the blood are present (‘ Brit. Med. J.,’ Oct. 21,1876, p. 51S). He also asserted that a heavy and continued pain over the sacrum may be the only