DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. 450 Sequestrum ot bone as an indication. Origin of the disease to be determined by vertical section of bone. Generally an inflammatory action in bone and extending to joint, &c. formed. In chronic disease of the hip-joint, the question as to the seat of the original disease is not so easily answered, and yet, from what I have observed clinically and pathologically, the question is not one impossible to answer. When a joint is disorganized its ligaments and cartilages gone, and the articular surfaces of the bone exposed, or perhaps diseased, there may be some difficulty in de- ciding as to the particular tissue in which the inflammation originated; but, when a section of the bone is made—e. g. the head of a femur, or the head of a tibia—and a cavity, a sequestrum, or a suppurating bone is found communicating with the joint, probabilities certainly point to the bone as being the original seat of the disease. But it may be asserted that in such instances no one doubts the cause of the joint disease, since the pathological conditions clearly prove it; yet the clinical histories of such cases differ in no single point from those of others in which, perhaps, the same very marked evidence of disease is not to be seen, that is, if the joint be examined on its surface only. Indeed, to examine a pathological specimen of a bone or of a diseased joint, it is absolutely necessary to make a vertical section through the bone; since to look at it from the joint surface is most fallacious, and an opinion formed from the appearance thus acquired is too likely to be erroneous. . If we make, then, a section of the bone in chronic disease of the joint, we shall find in a large number of cases, specially in the young, hyper temia of its articular extremity and condensation, if not suppuration or necrosis from chronic inflammatory action (Fig. 533); in fact, we shall find marked evidence of articular ostitis in one of its stages, for, doubtless, during young life this is the most common form of disease which precedes joint mischief, and from which joint disease proceeds. This opinion is also corroborated by the fact that, in our museums, almost every specimen of chronic joint disease reveals extensive bone mis- chief extending beyond the surface, and generally involving more or less of the articular ends of the bone which enter into the formation of the joint. In our Guy’s museum, this point is very strongly dis- played, and on looking over other museums and extensive notes of joint cases, the same truth is apparent. At times, however, the disease may primarily commence in the epiphysial car- tilage situated between the head of the femur and its neck, the epiphysis as a con- sequence being thrown off (Fig. 534). This pathological observation must be looked upon as of great clinical importance, for if the majority of cases of joint disease is to be attributed to the extension of an in- flammatory action from the articular ex- tremity of a bone to the other tissues, it becomes a question of urgency to recognise the disease of the bone in its early stage, in order to prevent its progress to the tissues upon which the integrity1 of Fig. 533. Necrosis of the head of the femur, with sequestrum in its Prep. 1S185, Guy’s Mus.