72 HYPERTROPHY OP THE PROSTATE. Treatment of prostatitis. With retention. With suppuration. Treatment in chronic prostatitis. Abscess about prostate. Hypertrophy of prostate. at times some little loss of power in emptying the bladder, pain in sexual intercourse, or frequent nocturnal emissions. Treatment.—When the symptoms are acute few remedies give more relief than the application of fifteen or twenty leeches to the perinteum, followed by a hot hip bath and the subsequent appli- cation of a linseed poultice made with the decoction of poppies or mixed with the extract of opium. A good purge should also be resorted to and alkalies given with sedatives such as morphia or opium, to allay pain. When retention of urine complicates the case, a catheter must be passed, a catheter coude being the best, but not before the warm bath and opium have been employed, as the introduction of a catheter under such circumstances is always painful and may do harm. When required, an elastic instrument, which has been well softened and oiled should be selected. Rest in the horizontal posture should be observed, and liquid diet given. When an abscess has formed, and there is evidence of deep-seated perineal suppuration, an incision in the median line of the perinseum should be made; and, indeed, if suppuration has not taken place, the [operation, by lessening tension, will be followed by relief to the symptoms. When the abscess has opened naturally, no surgical interference is usually required, although in exceptional cases where one abscess is followed by another, and the deep parts about the gland instead of undergoing repair are becoming more involved, a perineal incision should be made. When the suppuration is the result of a stricture, and has probably been caused by extravasation, the propriety of divid- ing the stricture and laying open the perineum down to the prostate cannot be questioned. In chronic inflammation, whether the sequel of the acute or not, when attended with suppuration, the practice already advised should be followed. When no suppuration exists but only enlargement, counter- irritation by means of small perineal blisters is of great use, and the elevation of the pelvis with a pillow at night is also valuable. Tonics, as a rule, are required with the iodide of potassium. The bowels should never be allowed to be confined, the best laxatives being some saline medicine, or one of the natural mineral waters, such as Vichy or Pullna. All mechanical interference with the prostate should be avoided, and the nocturnal emissions treated on general principles, and not as being due to a local cause; tonics, generous living, and fresh air doing more towards hastening recovery than anything else. Over- exercise must be avoided, and sexual excitement forbidden. Abscesses occasionally occur around the prostate and give rise to very many of the same symptoms as a prostatic abscess. They are more apt, however, to make their way towards the posterior part of the perineum into the ischio-rectal fossa. As soon as they are recognised they should be opened by one or two deep incisions in front of the anus on either side of the median line. On one occasion, I let out, by twro incisions about a pint of pus that had accumulated in this part, and produced complete retention of urine for several days. Immediate relief and a good recovery followed the operation. Hypertrophy of the Prostate. This is a general term applied to a chronic enlargement of the gland