CASTRATION. 219 negative symptoms. They attract the patient’s observation only from their size, can be handled without exciting pain, and do not usually give even the natural sensation of the organ upon pressure. They are slow in their progres, uniform in their outline, and more or less globular ; are always confined to one gland; are rarely accompanied with fluid in the tunica vaginalis; and, on being punctured, emit only a more or less blood-stained glairy mucus. The cancerous tumours of the organ are more rapid in their develop- ^"^g0118 inent than the cystic, a year’s growth, as a rule, giving a large tumour. They are likewise painless, and readily allow of free manipulation. The natural sensation of the organ also soon disappears. They are unac- companied with a hydrocele, and also involve only one organ. They have a more elastic and fluctuating feel than the cystic or the inflammatory enlargements, and when their outline is unequal or bossy, the projection is generally softer than the other portion of the tumour. An exploring needle, or trocar and canula, rarely, if ever, reveals the mucoid fluid so characteristic of the cystic or simple affections, but usually lets out blood or the thin creamy fluid so charac- teristic of a cancer. In the preceding table, the chief points of dif- ference in the several chronic affection of the testicles are clearly shown. (See Table, pp. 216, 217.) Castration. The scrotum having been shaven, and the skin over the testicle made On tense, a free incision is to be made through the scrotum and tunica castration, vaginalis down to the tunica vaginalis testis, and the body of the organ with its cord exposed; and, when any doubt as to diagnosis exists, an incision should be made into the growth before its removal. A strong silk or carbolised catgut ligature should then be passed through the cord, which must be firmly tied in halves; the cord divided below the ligature, and the tumour turned out of its scrotal covering. There is no necessity to take away any of the scrotum however stretched, unless diseased, since it is sure to contract. All vessels are to be twisted, the wound washed out with some iodine water and dried, and a few sutures put in at the upper part of the wound, the purse being raised when the patient is in bed by a small pillow. No pain is caused when the ligature of the cord has been tightly tied, and about the tenth „ day it will come away. To take the vessels of the cord up singly is a troublesome operation and has no advantages. No assistant can hold the cord with his fingers be- fore its division, as it is sure to slip from his grasp. To strap a testicle re- quires some skill. The patient should be made to stand against the edge of a table and separate his legs. The surgeon should then with his left hand grasp the organ from behind and press it down to the bottom of the scrotal sac, making the