500 DISEASES OP THE BONES. readily made out, and there can he little doubt that at times it does not exist. j Cases in which suppuration around joint most frequent. On diagnosis. Treatment by free incision The severe cases of suppuration around a joint are most frequently met with in children of delicate and feeble frames, and in the badly fed, who are disposed to rapid extension of suppurative inflammation when started by any slight accident, blow, fall, or strain. When these large abscesses appear around the shoulder—a joint that is less liable to disease than any other—it has probably been caused by some strain or injury, when the child is dragged along by a careless or violent companion; or, it may be that the muscles of the parts are injured. At times, it is the epiphysial cartilage placed between the epiphysis and the shaft of the humerus which has suffered. The diagnosis of these cases of suppuration external to the joint is not difficult. On examination it will be seen, that the swelling is ex- ternal to the joint, covering in the well-known points of bone; in the knee, the soft parts probably will be raised from the patella, and fluctuation will be felt above and around it. There will be much local pain, but not so much constitutional disturbance as would exist with a suppurating joint; the joint, moreover, will be capable of some amount of movement without pain, a condition which would be impossible if the seat of the disease were in and not around it. Tbeatment.—There is only one form of treatment on which reli- ance can be placed in these cases, and which consists in giving free exit to the pus. A free incision, consequently, should be made into the abscess over the seat of the bursa as soon as any pus can be detected. The limb should be raised, the joint preserved at rest by splints, and warm-water dressing or a poultice applied, and the joint should be kept absolutely quiet till repair has been completed. When the powers of the patient are feeble, tonics should be given. When the abscess is not opened early, it may open into the joint and produce an acute suppuration. I have known this happen in the knee with a fatal result. In the knee it is often necessary to make a free incision on either side of the joint as well as over the patella in order to prevent burrowing. CHAPTER XXXIII. DISEASES OF THE BONES. On diseases of bone. General remarks. Structure of bone. In a pathological sense, diseases of the bone are identical with those of other tissues, while such differences as exist are due to their anato- mical and physiological peculiarities ; diseased action, under all circum- stances, being materially modified by texture. In the bones, diseased action is thus modified by the presence of the inorganic material which they contain, two thirds of their constituents being earthy, and one third animal. This animal texture includes a fibrous periosteal membrane with cellular tissue beneath, as well as a finer endosteal membrane which lines the medullary canal. These two membranes are intimately con- nected together by delicate vascular and membranous links permeating