GONORRHOEA. 171 derness ; and constitutional symptoms show themselves varying with the degree of the inflammatory action, in some subjects the febrile condi- tion being well marked, but in most absent. After the lapse of ten or fourteen days these acute symptoms partially subside, the discharge Chronic, becomes thinner and more muco-purulent, the external signs of in- flammation less marked, the pain on micturition less severe ; the perineal, inguinal, or scrotal pain probably will have disappeared, and a thin muco-purulent urethral discharge with a slight sensation of heat on micturition alone remaining. When these symptoms are allowed unchecked to run their course they will gradually pass into the condition known as that of gleet, Gleet, in which a thin muco-purulent urethral discharge exists, unattended by any local or general source of pain. Gleet, however, may be the result of some stricture or local urethral disease, such as an ulcer. The ordinary seat of the affection is the mucous membrane of the Seat ot urethra, the orifices of the lacunte being chiefly involved. The fossa disease navicularis and parts around, and the mucous membrane of the bulb are the most common seats; the dissections of Sir A. Cooper, Ricord, Thompson, and others, having proved this. At times, however, gonor- rhoeal inflammation may, as Wallace pointed out (‘ On Venereal Dis- ease’), involve at the same time the whole of the urethra, the bladder, the testicles, the glans, and the prepuce, in the male; and in the female, the nymphse, clitoris, vagina, &c., the disease, as it creeps along to the posterior part of the urinary passage, decreasing in intensity in the anterior. In severe cases the inflammation may extend to the sub- mucous tissue, and run on to thickening, and even to suppuration. Urethritis, the result of some mechanical irritation of the urethra, • is rarely acute, and it, as a rule, subsides as soon as the cause has been removed. Urethritis, the consequence of some gonorrhoeal contagion, is almost always acute, and having once been started is not readily arrested. Gleet, whether the consequence of an acute or subacute inflammation, when of some standing, is almost always due to some urethral con- traction or stricture. In the female, gonorrhoea is to be recognised as a yellow purulent Gonorrhoea vaginal discharge accompanied by heat, pain, and signs of acute in- in ttlc female, flammation. The less purulent it is, and the more the discharge is made up of mucus and epithelium scales, the greater is the probability of the disease being due to vaginal irritation other than gonorrhoeal, that is, to leucorrhcea; and, when the discharge is made up of masses of glutinous, semi-transparent, albuminoid material like the white of egg, the more certain is it that the discharge is uterine and comes from the glands in the neck of the uterus. It must be remembered, however, that in both sexes, as long as any purulent or semi-purulent fluid is poured out by the mucous membrane of the genital passage (even the slightest gleet), violent urethritis, or inflammation of the vagina, may arise in another subject by contagion, aud there is good reason to believe, that sexual excitement is an impor- tant element in aiding the propagation by contagion. Mr. J. Morgan of Dublin believes, that the vaginal discharges of constitutionally In- fected women are the cause of the majority of sores in men. Treatment.—Gonorrhoea or urethritis is a local disease and may be Treatment, treated locally with success. When it is the result of local irritation