96 STONE IN THE BLADDER. Litlioritv to be preferred in adults. Opinion of SirH. Thompson. Lithotrity not applicable in severe bladder mischief. tice, out of upwards of thirty cases under puberty, I have lost but one, and then the patient was ten years old ; he had had symptoms all his life, and incontinence of urine for four years. The stone was two ounces in weight, and two inches in diameter. He died with peritonitis and extreme disorganisation of the kidney. In children, therefore, it may be safely asserted that success may with some confidence be looked for after lithotomy, when performed with care and skill. “ It may reasonably be doubted if better can be done before fifteen than cutting for stone.”—Fergusson. Lithotrity in a child, with fine instruments, may be a justifiable operation in exceptional cases when the calculus is known to be very small; but, as a rule, in patients under puberty, lithotomy ought to be selected. In Great Britain, this practice is generally followed by surgeons; although in France, lithotrity is more frequently selected. In stone in the bladder in adults, however, no such general rule can be laid down, although it may safely be asserted that, whenever a stone is found in the bladder of a male adult, its removal by lithotrity ought primarily to be entertained, and lithotomy had recourse to only when lithotrity is inapplicable. In tolerably healthy subjects, where the stone is small or of moderate dimensions, that is, about one inch in diameter, lithotrity is to be preferred to lithotomy, as the danger of lithotomy rapidly increases with age, the mortality being one in eight between seventeen and forty, one in four above that age. I have cut twenty- four adult male subjects with six deaths, or one in four; and Thompson out of seventy-eight cases lost twenty-nine, or one in two and three quarters. “ When lithotrity is employed for stones as large as a date or a small chestnut—and it is impossible to deny the excellent chance of success which this method offers to the subjects of such stones—a certain, but still only small proportion, of deaths must be expected; and the rate of mortality will correspond with augmentation in the size of the stones, and with the amount of existing disease and age on the part of the patient. Given a small stone in a fairly healthy person, and success is certain; the possibility of contingency in such a case depending only on the presence of those remote and excessively rare conditions which will make, for an individual here and there, the mere passing of a catheter a cause of death. In an adult subject, with a urethra of good calibre, and not over-irritable—with a prostate of normal size, or, if enlarged, not over-sensitive, or interfering with the passage of the lithotrite—with a bladder fairly healthy, and capable of containing at least four ounces of urine—a moderate stone, and a patient endowed with good health and an ordinary amount of pluck, the operation of lithotrity may be undertaken with every prospect of success.” “ It is, however, unwise to apply as a rule lithotrity to any stones above mode- rate size; and, if any calculus is sufficiently large to require what is known as the fenestrated instrument, it is better to employ lithotomy.” This is the conclusion of Sir H. Thompson after an experience of 422 cases of lithotrity with thirty-two deaths, or one in thirteen cases. (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’1878.) When severe bladder mischief complicates the case, lithotrity is out of the question, and lithotomy should be selected, although experience confirms what C. Hawkins has stated, that lithotrity may be performed with success when the bladder has been in a very considerable state of