56 STONE IN THE KIDNEY. May give rise to lumbar renal abscess. Treatment of stone in the kidney. When passing down ureter. When impacted iD kidney. Operative interference. prominent clinical symptom of this affection. When the stone enters the ureter, the inguinal and testicular pain becomes increased, and a colicky pain appears, attended often with sickness and even collapse, the bladder becoming more irritable and the urine more bloody. When the stone passes, all these symptoms suddenly cease, the bladder irrita- tion probably alone remaining. When the stone is in the kidney, lumbar pain shooting down towards the groin is the most common symptom; while exercise, or any quick movement that may stir the stone, excites irritability of the bladder and hsematuria. And, as time goes on, and the local irritation becomes worse, some suppuration in the kidney will occur. As long as the ureter remains open, and pus makes its escape into the bladder, the symptoms are not urgent; but should the ureter become closed by the stone or some inflammatory change, the pus will collect and give rise to lumbar renal abscess. At times, this lumbar swelling may be felt; indeed, in thin subjects, with one hand in the lumbar and the other in the hypochondriac region, a calculus may by palpation even be made out in the kidney, and this examination can be made occasionally with advantage with the patient under chloroform. The lumbar swelling may so increase as to form a large cystic abdominal tumour. When the ureter is obstructed, this result will take place more rapidly than when it is open, as the pus accumulates; but when it is open the pus flows into the bladder and passes with the urine as turbid urine. When allowed to settle in a porringer or glass, its presence will be readily detected. Pus poured into the bladder from the kidney or elsewhere is mixed with but little mucus; but when formed in the bladder is mixed with a great deal. Teeatment.—When a stone has formed in the kidney, the happiest result is its passage into the bladder, which end can be facilitated by the administration of diluents, particularly water, as well as alkaline prepara- tions of potash, such as the citrate, tartrate, or bicarbonate. When sti’ong evidence exists of local irritation, opium or henbane, given either by the mouth or the rectum, are valuable drugs; while a subcutane- ous injection of morphia over the affected kidney at times acts most beneficially. Fomentations about the loin and groin, or the warm bath, also give much relief. When the stone is passing down the ureter, the same practice is to be followed, a warm bath and a full dose of opium often relaxing the parts and favouring the passage of the stone. The administration of chloroform by inhalation may, when the pain is severe, under these circumstances also be tried. In a case I was called upon to see, where extreme agony existed, instantaneous and permanent relief followed the practice, the stone having passed during the inhalation of the chloroform. When the stone has become impacted in the kidney and gives rise to periodical attacks of pain and constant uneasiness—each attack being worse than the last—important questions occur to the sur- geon. Is it to be allowed to remain, where it may, in all probability, set up irremediable disease if not destruction of the kidney ? or, is an attempt to be made to remove it by surgical operation ? Is a surgeon justified in cutting down upon a suppurating kidney, whether resulting from a stone or other cause, and giving free exit to the pus, or, removing the stone ? Is nephrotomy an operation to be performed ?