ELECTROLYTIC CAUSTIC. 612 have ably dwelt upon it, and Roux of Toulon, made it the subject of a special report. In acute cases, there can be little doubt as to the wisdom of the practice suggested; but in English practice, they are not, however, of great frequency—the cases of necrosis of stumps met with being gene- rally of a more chronic or sub-acute kind, of either periosteal or endos- teal origin, and not requiring such active treatment, oeurismal Aneurismal enlargement of the arteries of a stump has been described ilargement py Ericlisen on Cadge’s authority, and is an accidental association. Bterics. Cancer may also attack a stump. In December, 1871,1 removed the leg-stump of a man, set. 58, for extensive cancerous disease of two years’ standing, which attacked the cica- trix that had been formed fifty-four years {vide Fig. 25). In this case amputation of both legs had been performed for gangrene of the limb when the patient was a child four years old. When the end of the bone in a stump is not well covered and is subjected to pressure, a bursa at times forms as a pro- tective agent. This occurred in the case from which Fig. 644 was taken. I ampu- tated the end of the humerus with the bursa, and a good stump was left. ancer !un,p' Fig. 644. Bursa, it Removed from John S—, ret. 16, who had had his arm amputated four years previously for an ac- cident. Electrolytic Caustic. Electrolytic I had intended to have introduced in a former page, a valuable elec- austic. trolytic caustic which has been ably advocated by my friend and colleague Mr. C. H. Golding-lin'd in the ‘ Lancet,’ for September 28th, 1878, but omitted to do so. He applied it first for the removal of scro- fulous lymphatic glands, but it is clearly applicable to other purposes. The plan was originally suggested by the late Dr. Golding-Bird, Mr. Golding- Bird’s father, as a painless method of forming issues under v the name of the “ electric moxa.” In my dresser days it was occa- ( sionally employed to stimulate indolent and unhealthy sores, the silver ij plate being applied to the sore. It acts on the principle of a Smee’s battery, the salts in the Fig. 645. How applied, serum acting as the sulphuric acid. A is a thin silver or copper plate about 2 to 3 inches square, and B points of metallic zinc 1^ inch long thrust through shields of cork or gutta percka. The two are connected by very flexible copper wire. One or more zinc points may be used with the same silver plate. The silver is strapped firmly on to a piece of thick wash leather or lint twice or thrice folded soaked in strong salt and water placed on the skin which is previously bathed with the same