482 EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. Results of excision and ■imputation at different period* of lue. Excision (iui'ing young life more fatal than amputation. General conclusion. Excision as a rule is not sound practice. If, however, we look to the results of loth operations as performed at different periods of a life, a point of comparison of immense im- portance although entirely ignored by Mr. Swain and other advo- cates of excision, and I wish its advocates would consider well these points and not pass them by as of no importance, the following ; striking result comes out:—In my own table of amputations fo'r chronic disease of the knee in patients under twenty years of age, out of 69 cases only 3 died, or 4‘3 per cent., or 1 in 23 cases. In ex- cision for the same class of eases performed at the same period of life, out of 97 cases 27 died, or 27‘8 per cent., or 1 in 3f, the different degrees of mortality of the two operations under twenty years of age being as 4-3 per cent, to 27-8 per cent. Excision being nearly • seven times as fatal as amputation during young life, it may thus fairly be asked whether the advantages of excision are so great as to justify its performance in the majority of cases of disease of the knee at that age. In amputations undertaken between twenty-one and forty years of age for chronic joint disease, out of 119 cases 38 ■ died, or 32 per cent., or 1 in 3 ; in excision, undertaken under similar I circumstances, out of 74 cases 39 died, or 52 7 per cent., or more than j 1 in every two cases, the difference between the mortality of the two operations, 32 per cent, and 52'7 per cent, respectively, being 20 per ! cent, against excision. Summary.—It would thus appear that it is in young adult life that excisions, although always more fatal than amputation, are the most justifiable; that in childhood they are far too dangerous; while in patients past middle age, all admit their inapplicability. And yet it must be admitted that excision of the knee-joint is a good opera- I tion; and that by it, when successful, a far better limb is given than after amputation. The truth must be recognised, however, that the operation is, as hitherto practised, much more fatal than ampu- j tation; although it may with confidence be asserted that the cases ! in which amputation has been performed are, as a rule, far more severe than those in which excision has been practised; for the advocates of excision are disposed to operate at a somewhat earlier period of disease than the advocates of amputation; that is, the former often remove a disease they believe it is inexpedient to leave to be cured by natural processes; whilst the latter only remove a limb when all hope of a natural cure has passed away, and the operation is a necessity to save life. Are the advantages of excision, therefore, so great as to justify a surgeon in submitting a patient to an extra risk in order to secure them ? As hitherto prac- tised, and as a general rule in surgery, I have no doubt in answering in the negative. In exceptional cases, the risk, it is true, may be run; but excision, as a rule of practice, does not appear to be sound. Whether better results would not be secured by an earlier opera- tion is an open question. Prof. Humphry’s cases recently published, and my colleague’s, Mr. Howse, rather tend to show they would; for, after excisions, undertaken with a patient in good health, or at least not worn out by suppurative mischief, a good result may fairly be expected. But is the risk of the operation when performed under these favorable circumstances, so slight as to justify the sur- geon in throwing aside the hope, and perhaps fair expectation, of securing a recovery by natural processes ? Is excision of the knee