393 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. Symptoms. The existence of the fracture can be made out by manipulation, the amount of displacement varying with the character of the injury. Cre- pitus can also be detected by grasping one or other condyle and moving the broken fragment, while rotation of the radius often gives rise to it fractures involving the condyles of the humerus whether into the joint or not, the fragments should be brought into position by extension upon the forearm when needed, with manipulation, and an ante- rior jointed rectangular splint, applied; the upper half of the splint being well passed up the arm, and the lower to the wrist. In some cases, a posterior arm splint projecting down to the olecranon process is of use, the whole being well bound together and to the limb. The joint, as a rule, may be left exposed for external applications. Some surgeons prefer from the first an immovable casing of gutta percha or felt, while others, lateral leather or paste-board splints, but I think it preferable to leave the joint exposed. these periods, and passive movement allowed. Hamilton, however, in his great work on Fractures, states his belief, that passive movement ought to be commenced within seven days and perseveringly employed until the cure is accomplished. He does not admit the use of splints after this period, believing that the new material has steadied the fragments, and that the danger of diplacement is but little, while the prevention of anchylosis demands early and continued motion. After fracture of the humerus as of other bones, arrest of growth Fig. 486. when the external condyle is involved. Flexing the ulna also produces it when the internal condyle is affected. IIu merus. Comminuted fracture of the condyles of the humerus. Prep. 111275. All these fractures into the elbow- joint are rapidly followed by effusion, which often masks the symptoms and renders the diagnosis difficult and uncer- tain. Under these circumstances no diagnosis should be attempted until by rest and cold applications the effusion has been absorbed and a full examination can be satisfactorily made A few days are usually enough for this change to take place. In rare cases, the inner condyle is simply chipped off, the joint not being implicated. Treatment. Treatment.—In all these cases of Period of In children, the bones unite in about three weeks, and in adults, after union. a month; consequently all splints should be removed at the end of