DISEASES OP SPECIAL JOINTS. 4 ±9 It is found in the male and female subject in equal proportions. Sex. but appears to attack the left more frequently than the right limb, 60 per cent, of my cases having occurred on the left, and 40 on the right side, and this proportion is very similar to that published by Mr. Lonsdale in the £ Lancet ’ for September 8th, 1855, where out of 112 cases of deformity of the hip, 65 were of the left and 47 of the right side. Pathology of hip disease.—It has been already stated that in a Pathology of pathological point of view, hip disease differs in no respect from that hlP disease, of other joints, and is not a strumous affection although it may occur in strumous subjects. It may also be repeated, that it is a very rare thing to find strumous or tubercular matter in a diseased hip- joint. Excluding new growths, disease of the hip consequently means, inflammation of the bones or soft parts entering into the articu- lation. In the pathology of joints, few points probably have been more On the seat disputed than the seat of the disease in hip-joiut affection; and I believe the difficulty has been entirely raised on the mistaken lscase‘ notion, that the nature of the affection was different from that of other joint diseases. We have never heard much importance placed upon the point in diseases of the knee, shoulder, or other joints. The question as to the origin or not of disease of the knee in the crucial ligaments, or of disease of the shoulder in the long tendon of the biceps has never been very warmly discussed. And yet we find men gravely discussing the question as to the origin of hip disease in the ligamentum teres. My late much respected teacher, Mr. Aston Key, laid great stress on this point, and believed that it was from that ligament and its attachments that disease of the hip-joint gene- rally proceeded. Pathology has, however, made great advances since those days, and we now know that disease in a joint (hip or other) may have its origin in the bones which form the joint, or, in the soft parts or ligaments that hold them together. Experience, moreover, has taught us that we may have an acute inflammation of the synovial membrane rapidly going on to complete disorganization of the ligaments, carti- lages, and soft parts of the joint, and even causing death of the bones entering into its formation. The inflammation may be so acute as to O/ten render it difficult at the post-mortem examination to read the patho- logical facts correctly, for when such changes as these take place, it is fairly open to question whether the inflammation originated in the synovial membrane and spread to the bones, cartilages, and ligaments causing their destruction; or, whether it began in an osseous centre and extended to the joint. This difficulty is experienced when the disease has been so severe as to cause a division of the pelvic bones into their original segments, or a separation of the epiphysis of bone forming the head of the femur from its normal attachment to the neck. When the bones of the joint are equally involved in acute disease. Indication as it is probable that the mischief began in the synovial membrane and to the spread to the bone. But, when we find one bone more diseased than origin/ another, e. g. the femur than the acetabulum, or vice versd, it is pro- ° bable, that acute inflammation originated in it and spread to the soft parts. These points, however, are to be looked upon as only feeble indications and not as definite guides, upon which an opinion may be vol. ii. 29