192 HEMATOCELE. Case. On licematocele. Diffused or encysted. Causes. Symptoms. spontaneously with little or no treatment, but in adults sueh a result is most uncommon. Messrs. Pott, Curling, and Sir B.Brodie relate cases of this kind, and attempt to explain the process by which such a recovery takes place with more or less success. A single instance of the kind has passed under my hands for treatment. Charles C—, set. 64, came to Guy’s Hospital on Jan. 29th, 1863, ! with a hydrocele of the left testis, the size of a cocoa-nut. It had been of two years’ standing, and been tapped six times, having been under my ' care on each occasion. He came under my notice at this date, when [ was about to leave the hospital, and I did no more than examine the parts which were tense and painful, telling the patient to return | to me in the course of a few days to be relieved. When he came the following week, all indication of swelling had completely disappeared the man assuring me that he had gone to bed the night of the second day before his visit with a large tumour, and that when he awoke it had disappeared. He added also that on the following morning he had passed a large quantity of thin urine. The patient was a steady man and a widower, and told his tale with all the appearance of truth and with some astonishment. In three months the fluid had re-collected, when he was tapped. I will not attempt an explanation of this case. HEMATOCELE. As the term “ hydrocele ” is applied to the effusion of serous fluid into the sac of the tunica vaginalis and of its tubular prolongation upwards to the internal ring, as well as into the cysts which have been already described as being connected with the testis, so the term “ hmmatocele” is employed to designate an effusion of blood into the same parts. We thus have— A vaginal and an encysted hasmatocele of the testis. A diffused and an encysted hsematocele of the cord. Hsematocele may occur iu an organ which had not previously shown any symptom of disease, or, it may be, associated with a hydrocele. It may appear spontaneously without an injury, or as the result of a blow, strain, or the tapping of a hydrocele. It may attack patients at any period of life, and in certain rare cases at a very early age, even in infancy. I have the records of a case in which it was said to have made its appearance at two years of age. In the notes of my cases various causes have been assigned for its production. In more than one instance “ it appeared gradually without any known cause.” In another “ it occurred when hard at work push- ing a wheelbarrow, something giving way with a snap.” In the majority it came on as an immediate consequence of a blow', and iu several, as the result of the tapping of a hydrocele. Iu all, however, the result was the same—a more or less rapid formation of a tumour in the position or neighbourhood of the testicle. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The symptoms of a hsematocele which has made its appearance without any injury or assigned cause are very obscure, and are pretty well summed up in the prominent one of a gradual and uniform enlargement of the organ. The swelling will vary in shape as in a hydrocele, but, like it also, may present a more or less pyriform outline. The testicle will always, in the vaginal hmmato- cele (on careful manipulation being made), be detected somewhere in