53 HJEMATURIA. abscess or lumbar swelling, as in colotomy, at the outer border of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and evacuate the pus as soon as sufficient evidence exists of its presence; when a good result may be looked for. (Vide paper by Dr. Bowditcb, ‘Am. Journ. of Med. Science,’ 1871.) Htematuria is a symptom met with in many diverse conditions, the haemorrhage being limited or profuse. It may come from one or both the kidneys or any other part of the urinary passage, either as a result of some constitutional cause, such as the haemorrhagic diathesis, or, some morbid condition of the blood, as in purpura, scurvy, smallpox, the plague, or fever. Profuse renal haematuria takes place occasionally as an inter- mittent affection It may likewise follow an injury or disease of the kidney; ureter, bladder, prostate, vas deferens, or urethra. In surgical practice the haemorrhage is more frequently due to some local cau-e, yet the practitioner should be alive to the fact that it may originate from a constitutional, or the use of such a drug as turpentine or cantharides. If the haemorrhage follow an accident, the diagnosis is seldom diffi- cult, for when after an injury to the loin, blood is passed mixed with the urine, it may be inferred that the kidney has been injured, and when slender, cylindrical, pale pieces of fibrin are seen in the urine the surgeon may be sure that they come from the kidney—these clots having been moulded in the ureter and washed down from the kidney- by the urine. Blood also, when intimately mixed with the urine, has probably a renal origin. The passage of a stone down the ureter is also attended by haemor- rhage, which is rarely profuse, and is, moreover, generally accompanied by severe colicky pain shooting down the groin and scrotum of the affected side, with a retracted testicle. When blood comes from a diseased kidney, it is mixed with the urine, as in cases of accident, and may be slight or profuse in quantity, but the nature of the affection or its being due to calculus will have to be determined by the history of the case, the existence of lumbar pain or tenderness, and a close examination of the urine. In cancer of the kidney pain rarely extends to the testicle. Vesical or prostatic haemorrhage, either from injury or disease, chiefly shows itself as blood clots mixed with the urine, the former passing either before or after the latter. The blood at first may fill the bladder; but after some days the urine will only be stained with blood. When the clot has broken up more or less discoloured irregular coagula with fimbriated edges will pass with the urine, these coagula being very characteristic of blood-clot. They may pass per urethram as rolled-up masses, but, when floated out in water will present their natural shape; blood that has been retained within the bladder for any- time will impart to the urine a porter-like aspect. When blood flows at the end of micturition in small quantities, squeezed out, as it were, by the bladder, a calculus or prostatic disease may be suspected; but the same condition is also occasionally met with in the irritable bladder of gonorrhoea, or, after the passage of “gravel.” W hen a cancer of the bladder or prostate, or a villous growth exists pieces of broken up tissue may be detected by the microscope in the bloody urine. In these cases, too, the luevnaturia will be intermittent. Urethral haemorrhage.—When, after an injury to the perineum or pelvis, or a sudden muscular strain, pure blood flows from the urethra, unmixed with urine, urethral mischief may be suspected. Ou hferaataria. Causes. Renal luemorrhajte. Vesical litemorrhage.