156 RETENTION OF URINE. Aspirator in retention. Statistics. Mode of proceeding in a case of retention. ■When ordinary means fail. Puncture of l>iadder per rectum. Its value. exceptional instances, this operation is of great value. It must be remembered, also that the practice is only required when simpler means have failed. Since the introduction of the “ aspirator,” many surgeons have employed it with success in cases of retention, but relief by such a measure does not commend itself to my mind, being merely a tem- porising operation, and requiring frequent repetition in the same case; it has no such influence for good upon the cause of the retention as the operation of puncturing the bladder through the rectum. But in exceptional cases of retention of urine it may be a justifiable proceeding. In the treatment of retention of urine with simple organic or trau- matic stricture, the same principles of practice should be applied as have been recommended in the former class of cases; and in a large proportion of instances it has been already shown that success by such treatment may be secured ; since, out of 137 cases of retention admitted into Guy’s, operative measures were required in only 23, and the simple introduction of a catheter with the aid of warm baths and the internal administration of opium, proved sufficient to carry out all the objects required in 114. If the surgeon is called, therefore, to a case of retention of urine with organic stricture, the introduction of a catheter is the primary means to be employed. If the history iuforms him that the retention is the result of a gradually contracting passage, a medium-sized instrument should be selected, and on this failing, a second attempt with a smaller one may be fol- lowed by success. Force, however, must not to be employed, and too much time should not be expended in making the attempt. If success is to follow the operation, it will readily be obtained; perseverance and repeated endeavours to pass an instrument, as a rule, do harm. If the symptoms are not very urgent and some delay may be allowed, the warm bath and a full opiate, such as two or even three grains of opium maybe employed; and, under their combined influence, it will be only in exceptional cases that relief will not subsequently be secured. If the symptoms of retention, however, are very urgent, and the agonies of the sufferer demand immediate relief; or, if the means which have been just described have been found wanting after a fair trial, there is little doubt that the most scientific and certain practice is the puncturing of the bladder through the rectum; for all expe- rience has correctly endorsed the opinion expressed by Mr. Cock when he recalled the attention of the profession to this operation in his valuable paper published in 1852 (vol. xxxv of the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.’), “ that the bladder may be reached with the smallest amount of pain, with the least risk of present or future danger, and with the greatest prospect of ulterior good, by puncture through the rectum.” The records I possess of the cases of this operation, positively prove the truth of this opinion, and it is gratifying to find that, in these days, the majority of surgeons recognise the value of the practice. t . The operation is as simple as it is safe, and as efficient as it is scien- tific. As a means of relieving a patient from the agony of retention of urine which has been proved to be irremediable by the rational use of