LITHOTOMY. 110 Forceps. Biuni gorget. Position of patient. Perimeum to be per- pendicular. groove of the director. Different sizes are required for a child and an adult. The knife as employed by Sir W. Fergusson (Fig. 348) is given as a type of that required for the curved staff. A probe-pointed bistoury or blade with a round point is sometimes of use to enlarge the vesical opening when not made free enough, or, to give vent to a large stone. Lithotomy forceps should be made of several shapes and sizes, and a scoop (Fig. 349) ought also to be at hand. It is used by passing it Fig. 349. Lithotomy scoop. behind the stone and fixing it there by the pressure of the left index- finger, the instrument with the two hands being withdrawn with the stone. When the perinseum is very deep, and some extra guide is required by the surgeon for the introduction of his forceps into the bladder and the extraction of the stone, the blunt gorget (Fig. 350) may be used, the instrument, guided by its beak, being passed into the bladder upon the staff, and upon this the forceps can readily be introduced. The gorget is never needed in children, but in adults it is often of great use. Fig. 350. The blunt gorget. The operation.—The surgeon having decided upon his operation selected his instruments, and seen that he has at hand everything he may require, having also obtained the help of three if not four assistants besides the chloroformist, proceeds to place his patient. A narrow but well-raised table should be employed, so that the patient’s perinseum and the surgeon’s face should be nearly on the same level. The patient should be placed on his back with his thighs flexed upon the pelvis and the legs upon the thighs, the hands of the patient being made to grasp his feet, and fastened in such a position by the figure-of-8 bandage, the padded bracelets and anklets, as seen in Fig. 351, or Clover’s crutch. The neck ligature is never required. Children need not be fastened, but it is more prudent for adults; although some surgeons, since the introduction of chloroform, have given up the practice under all circumstances. The shoulders should be well raised, the knees separated, and the pelvis kept well down upon the table by two assistants; the surgeon should also see that the patient is quite straight, the line of the umbilicus being the best guide to this position. The perineeum should be perpen- dicular. The surgeon may then pass the staff, and having introduced it well into the bladder, and felt as well as heard the stone, he is to entrust it to the hands of an assistant, one who can confidently be