431 FRACTURES OE THE LEG. When compound, it is generally of a serious nature, and, according Its serious to Gosselin, should be treated by amputation. Dr. R. M. Hodges, of nature. America, going so far as to say that by such a practice alone can the patient’s life be saved (‘ Boston Med. and Surg. Journal,’ Jan., 1877). Death usually takes place from pyaemia in cases that are left alone. I am not disposed, however, to go so far in this direction, though I fully recognise the serious nature of these cases and believe that they claim the surgeon’s anxious attention. In transverse fractures there is rarely deformity. In the oblique, it Deformity, is a common result—the upper extremity of the lower portion of bone, projecting, as a rule—the lower fragment being rotated outwards from the great tendency the foot has towards eversion. The symptoms of fractui’e of the leg are too plain to be overlooked. Symptoms. The tibia being a superficialfbone, any solution of continuity or devia- tion of the line of its spine is readily made out, the nature of the acci- dent, loss of power, deformity, and crepitus, helping the diagnosis. In fractures near the joint, it may at times be difficult to make out whether the bone is fractured into the joint or not, and when a doubt exists, caution in prognosis and treatment should be observed. In frac- tures close to the ankle accompanied with displacement, dislocation may be roughly simulated, but the slightest care ought to detect the true nature of the case; the facility with which the displacement of the parts is rectified, the fact that the malleoli retain their normal relative position with the foot, and that the ankle-joint moves with facility, proves that the displacement is due to broken bones and not to dislocation of the joint. When the lower epiphysis of the tibia Separation of is displaced with the foot, there may be some difficulty in making epiphysis, out the true state of the case, but such an accident can only occur in children; it will appear as a transverse fracture, but with no sharp edge of bone as is usual in fracture, while replacement of the displaced Fig. 528. Process of setting a fracture of the leg. fragments will not give rise to the ordinary crepitus of broken bone, but to a more subdued sensation. When a wound complicates the case, the diagnosis is readily made.