GONORRHCEA. 172 Salines. Copaiba. Sandal wood. Strong injections condemned. In chronic stage. On injections. from the passage of an instrument, no treatment is called for, the discharge ceasing naturally as soon as its cause has been removed, but when from gonorrhoeal contagion, such a result is not met with. In a very acute clap when the urethra and penis are swollen from vascular turgescence, free purgation with salines is the best practice, and, in plethoric patients, the addition of antimony in quarter-grain doses to excite nausea is most valuable. In less severe cases, copaiba may be given in doses of twenty drops or half a drachm three times a day with advantage, but this drug should not be continued for more than three days. If it is to do good it will show its influence within that time, and a longer continuance of the drug is useless and deleterious. The yellow oil of sandal wood may also be employed in the same dose and under like circumstances, and at times, it acts most beneficially even when the copaiba has failed, but is iu no way certain in its action. Astringent injections are always of value when they can be used frequently and efficiently, but strong injections are to be condemned. They may cure the disease suddenly, hut more commonly they fail, and set up inflammation of the bladder and other mischief, by adding to the irritation. The best injection in all stages of the disease is tannin in the pro- portion of three to six grains to the ounce, and next to this is alum in the proportion of two or three grains to the ounce, or the chloride of zinc, one grain to the ounce. A solution of salicylic acid is also good, 5ss of the acid being dissolved in six ounces of water with a scruple of borax. To be of use injections should be used from four to six times in the twenty-four hours. An ordinary glass syringe will answer every purpose if the glans penis he well held, but there are special syringes which are supposed to have some advantages. During this treatment, the use of such alkalies as the citrate or tartrate of potash in twenty-grain doses, or ten grains of the bicarbonate may be given, good food being allowed, but little or no stimulant. In the chronic stage, 1 have found great benefit from the introduc- tion into the urethra of a large catheter covered with the glycerine of tannic acid; and, at times, the Suppositorium Acidi Tannici rolled into sticks and passed into the urethra, acts most beneficially. The best way to give copaiba is as a bolus mixed with calcined magnesia, and wrapped in wafer paper, or, as a mixture with gum and peppermint water. The capsules are uncertain in their action. Copaiba is well known to produce in some patients a severe rose urti- carious eruption. Cubebs are less to be relied on than copaiba. In using injections, the object is to make an impression upon the mucous membrane by their astringent effects, and to keep it up. Weak astringents frequently employed are far more valuable than strong used at longer intervals. When so used they are as useful in gonorrhoeal inflammations of the urethra as in that of the eye. When a man can devote himself to the cure of his clap, and throw into his urethra a weak astringent every hour, he will often check it within two or three days, in the same way as a gonorrhoeal inflammation of the eye may be controlled under similar treatment. The nitrate of silver injection is an uncertain, and, at times, a dangerous remedy, adding often to the disease instead of diminishing it. In all cases of long-continued clap or gleet in the male, the presence of a stricture