ON FRACTURES. 375 fractures took place when the patient was in bed by mere muscular action, and repaired well; indeed, as well as if the subject of them bad been quite healthy. The immediate cause of fracture is usually some direct violence Cause, applied to the part, or it may be indirect, the bone, under some bending force, giving way at its weakest point; “ in the line of extension, not that of compression—Teevan. Indirect fractures are, as a rule, of the simplest kind unless com- plicated with joint dislocation; when compound the soft parts are mostly injured by the protrusion of the fractured bone. Fractures the result of direct violence, are always the most severe, the same violence that breaks the bone injuring the soft parts over it, and often Assuring and comminuting it. The mode of production of a fracture is consequently a point of great practical importance, both for diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. The diagnosis of a fracture is usually easy, though in exceptional Diagnosis, cases it is difficult, if not impossible. It is easy, when, after a blow or fall attended by the sensation of When easy, something giving way, deformity is found, with inability to move the limb; and on manipulation, abnormal mobility of the injured limb exists, with crepitus from the rubbing of the broken fragments together; when pain attends any attempt at movement, and swelling rapidly follows the accident; and when shortening exists, which is remedied by extension. The diagnosis is difficult when, as in impacted fractures, abnormal When mobility and crepitus are absent, and slight but fixed deformity; local lliu‘cult- paiu and shortening are the only symptoms, and when the nature of the accident is the only guide. When a transverse fracture of such a bone as the tibia exists without displacement, and with no fracture of tbe fibula; when the fracture is into or in the neighbourhood of a joint, and there is much swelling of the injured part; and when a fracture and dislocation co-exist. It is always difficult and at times impossible to make out a simple fissure of a bone, cranial or otherwise ; and the same may be said of a fracture of the pelvis or thorax; such injuries as these can be made out only by the natural symptoms of fracture, as they are called, and by such as are referred to the contents of the cranial, thoracic, or pelvic cavities. When a bone is broken near a joint, aud effusion into it follows the injury, the surgeon should suspect the presence of a fissure of the bone into the articulation; and when a V -shaped fracture of the lower third of the tibia is present, the V occupying the internal or subcutaneous surface of the bone and not the crest (vide Fig. 527), this complication is to be looked for. It is sometimes difficult to diagnose a fracture from a separated epiphysis. When a fracture is transverse (Fig. 472, a), there may be no or only Deformity some slight lateral displacement; when oblique (Fig.472, d), there dependent will probably be some shortening of the limb from the drawing up of f^ctur'e the lower portion of the limb, or riding as it is called of one end over the other. At times, there will be rotation of the limb, and in commi- nuted fractures separation of the ends of the bone. (Fig. 472, c).