AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 295 induration of the muscle, and is, affection. Fig. 414. therefore, unlike any glandular or other Fig. 414a. Showiug the early or cellular stage from The late or fibrous stage from the right muscle. the left muscle. Chronic inflammation of the sterno-mastoid is likewise met with in In adults adults, and, I believe chiefly as a consequence of syphilitic disease. It n,° attacks the muscles in the same way as it does others, such as those of s-'p 1 the tongue, the extensor triceps of the thigh and of the arm, the tem- poral, masseter, or other muscles, the muscle or muscles becoming infil- trated more or less diffusely with the well-known syphilitic inflammatory products. These tumours, when their nature is recognised and right treat- ment employed, can be re-absorbed; but if neglected and left alone, after attaining their full size, which is rarely great, break up and suppu- rate, giving rise to deep-seated abscesses, which, when they have discharged externally, leave deep, irregular, excavated sores. In the tongue these simulate closely cancerous sores; many of the cases of supposed cured cancer of the tongue being, doubtless, of this origin. In other parts, they have much the aspect of the deep cellular membranous ulcers which have been already described. As a part of syphilis, they always appear late in its course, and remote from the primary inoculation. When it appears in the adult, in the sterno-mastoid muscle, it more frequently attacks its sternal end than its body. After the disease has ceased, atrophy of the affected muscle is a Atrophy may common consequence. Contraction occasionally follows, though I have fo"ow- never seen it. MM. lticord and Notta have, however, recorded ex- amples. Recognising the syphilitic nature of this affection, the treatment should be conducted on the usual principles; large doses of the iodide of potassium, say fifteen to thirty grains, may be given three times a day with advantage; not in such full doses at first, but by gradual increase from one to five grains. Mercury may also be given, the mercupial suppository once or twice a day being the best form. In the chapter on syphilis this practice will be found described in detail.