URETHROTOMY. 136 Internal urethrotomy. Instruments. External urethrotomy. Syme’s operation. Fig. 3G1. Urethrotomy is a comprehensive term, and includes the internal division of a stricture from the urethra as well as the external through the periuseum. Internal urethrotomy has now many advocates, and in hard old strictures it is preferable to their rupture; for strictures also at the orifice of the urethra and within the penis, it is a safe and valuable practice. In the hands of some surgeons it has been much practised advantageously, and Mr. Lund, of Manchester, has lately advocated it. Many instruments have been invented for the purpose, and Stafford’s instrument, made in 1827, is well known. Fergusson employed a long grooved director, which he passed through the stricture, and a vex-y narrow-bladed knife, which can be buried in the groove. Many ingenious instru- ments have been invented, but the best is that which divides the strictures from behind forwards on its withdrawal, such as that represented in Fig. 361. It is one that I have had made on Trelat’s pi’inciple, per- forated at its end for a guide bougie. In strictures of the orifice a bistoury may be used. After the division of the strictui’e, it was a common custom to pass a large catheter into the bladder and leave it in, but M. Gouley has fairly shown that such a practice is not required. In orificial strictures after their division, the laminaria tent is the best to use with a shield. Maisonneuve employed a filiform gum-elastic bougie as a guide through the stricture, as well as a grooved steel director which is screwed to the bougie and pushed into the bladder. He then divided the strictm’e by means of a triangular-shaped urethrotome passed along the groove, a large catheter being passed into the bladder when the stricture had been divided. Subcutaneous perineal urethi’otomy is on its trial, but my own experience of it has not been favourable. External urethrotomy is a valuable operation in se- lected cases, and includes three very different measures; one, in which the stricture is divided through the peri- nmum upon a grooved director passed through the stricture (external division or Syme’s Operation). The second, in which the urethra is opened in front of the stricture and a grooved probe passed through it into the bladder previous to its division (Wheelhouse’s opera- tion). And the third, in which the perinseum is laid open without a urethral guide—the stricture being im- pervious—and to this the term perineal section ought to be confined (Cock’s operation). Syme’s Operation as already stated, is valuable in the highly irritable as Urethrotome, perforated at end for guide bougie.