PHIMOSIS. 161 particularly hereditary, and all the male branches of a family may be the subjects of it. I have known this to he the case in many instances, and, in one family, five sons suffered from it, as well as their father. Phimosis, or a condition of prepuce which, either from narrowness Phimosis, of the preputial orifice, or adhesion, cannot be retracted behind the glans, is, therefore, a congenital affection, but as often as not an ac- quired one—the result of inflammatory thickening and contraction subsequent to a preputial chancre, or other affection. So long as the prepuce is only long and the glans can be uncovered for purposes of cleanliness, and during erection, operative interference is not called for, though it is well to impress upon nurses the necessity of paying attention to the infant’s penis, and of cleaning it daily; since a want of such attention is frequently the source of urinary trouble and penile irritation. When neglected, the secretion of Tyson’s glands collects behind the corona, and acts as an irritant; the prepuce and glans penis constantly becoming adherent, and setting up bladder irritation simulating the symptoms of stone {vide page 149). In some neglected cases, an acute inflammation is induced, followed by cedeina inflamma- of the prepuce and the secretion of pus, which suspicious minds have tory too often interpreted as gonorrhoea, much to the injury of nursemaids Pllimosis- and others in whose charge the child rested. This disease is essentially a balanitis, and easily cured by cleanliness. In the adult, a long and narrow prepuce is injurious, as being a bar to proper cleanliness, and interfering with coitus or rendering it painful. It is also probably an exciting cause of cancer of the organ, where a disposition to such an affection exists. In boyhood, it probably by setting up an irritation in the parts induces a habit which ends in masturba- tion. It often gives rise, moreover, to incontinence and may produce retention of urine. Dr Lewis Sayre, of New York, has also pointed out in his work on ‘ Orthopedic Surgery,’ 1876, that as a direct result of this condition of the prepuce, talipes, paralysis, and other ner- vous affections may take place, the talipes being due to muscular contraction of the lower extremities owing to reflex nerve irri- tation ; and paralysis, as a consequence of nervous exhaustion caused by the undue genital excitement which is often associated with this condition. Tbeatment.—When the narrowing is not great, the daily retraction of the prepuce over the glans for purposes of cleanliness is gene- rally sufficient to dilate the orifice, care being taken to replace it subsequently. Dr. Cruise’s plan of dilating the orifice mechanically is not satisfactory; I have given it a trial and rejected it. The suggestion also of making two partial lateral sections of the mucous membrane has in my hands met with the same fate. Neither of these methods is so successful as to warrant its being recommended. When phimosis exists, congenital or otherwise, it is, as a rule, best VOL. ii. "i i