STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA.. 133 being dropped into a urinal, or tied in a knot to prevent escape of urine. After twenty-four hours if the catheter moves freely in the stric- ture it may be removed and a larger size introduced, the surgeon being careful not to be tempted to introduce one that fits the stricture too firmly. On the third and following days, the same practice may be followed, and in about ten days a complete dilatation of the stricture will probably have been perfected. If the catheter does not move freely in the stricture, it must be left a few hours longer. When the presence of the instrument in the bladder causes irritation, which is not remedied by such alkalies as the citrate or tartrate of potash with buchu and hyoscyamus, it is wise to have the catheter removed some few hours before a larger size is introduced ,• thereby giving the bladder rest. When it is impossible for the patient to maintain rest, a catheter may be passed in the evening, retained all night, and removed in the morning. At other times where the symptoms are more severe, some slight intermission of the treat- ment may be advisable, the passage of the catheter alone being practised. After the stricture has been fully dilated, the daily passage of an instrument for a few days subsequently is all that is required, the interval between the introduction of the catheter being gradually lengthened. The patient need not always be confined to bed during this treat- ment; but lie on a sofa or sit quietly in a reclining chair. When movement, however, causes irritation of the bladder, it must be forbidden. In severe and neglected strictures this plan is one that ought always to be followed when possible, as it is sound in its principle, safe in its practice, and as expeditious as is consistent with the object ; aimed at. The intermittent form of dilatation is required in less severe cases, or where rest cannot be obtained; and can be carried out by the intro- duction of an instrument on one day, and after the lapse of one or two more, its re-introduction, followed by the employment of a larger size, and so on, till complete dilatation of the stricture has been effected. It is the second best plan the surgeon has at his command, and although more tedious than the former, in the end successful; patients so treated, however, require doubtless the more frequent introduction of a catheter to maintain the urethra in its dilated condition than others treated by the former plan. For this method of treatment metallic in- struments are better than elastic. When a stricture is so contracted that a catheter cannot be passed i even alter very careful manipulation, the attempt should be given up ! and alkalies given. When the urethra is irritable, opium, enforced • rest, and the hip bath are of use; and after the lapse of a day or more, i success may follow another attempt. When the stricture is reached' by the catheter, gentle pressure upon it may be employed; indeed, Fig. 359. Mode of fastening catheter in the bladder. When to replace catheter. ■Wken causing irritable bladder. Where rest cannot be given. Intermittent dilatation Where stricture very contracted.