WRY-NECK. Adams’ operation. Dr. Made- lung’s opera- tion. Contraction of toee. Of biceps. Rigid atrophy. 321 by its contraction has become useless, if not worse than useless. Under these circumstances, the free division subcutaneously of all the tense tissues may be called for, as recently ably advocated by Mr. W. Adams (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June 29th, 1878). Hi3 operation and treatment is as follows: 1. The subcutaneous division of all the contracted bands of the palmar fascia and its digital prolongations by as many punctures as might be necessary, cutting from above downwards, with the smallest tenotomy knife. 2. Immediate extension of the contracted fingers. The fingers and hand to be bandaged to a splint. 3. The bandage not to be removed until the fourth day, when the punctures will be found to be healed. 4. Extension splint to be worn night and day for two or three weeks, and afterwards at night for three or four weeks, motion being employed every day. Dr. Madelung, of Bonn (‘Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift,’ Mo. 15, 1875), believes that this condition of finger known as Dupuytren’s contraction, is due to the absorption of the numerous small deposits of fat which in healthy young and middle-aged subjects exist between the connective-tissue bands of the palmar fascia and the short fibres which connect this fascia with the superjacent integument. This fascia consequently, under the influence of pressure, falls into a state of chronic inflammation and becomes contracted. He then describes how Busch, of Bonn, treats such cases with great success. In a case, for example, of contraction of the little finger, he raises an angular skin flap from the palm of the hand, its base being at the root of the finger, and then cuts away bit by bit the tense fascia beneath as the finger is being straightened. He then replaces the flap and fixes it with sutures. The finger is left free for some days after this operation, but as soon as granulations appear, a cylinder of wood is placed in the palm for a few days, and after this the finger is extended and kept so by means of a straight splint applied to the back of the hands. This should be re- moved daily and the finger moved. At the end of three or four weeks the hand is left free. Dr. Madelung has never seen this operation fail (‘ Med. Rev.,’ May 26th, 1875). I have adopted this practice in several cases with excellent results. In the same way, one or more toes may be so affected, and tenotomy may be called for. In 1871,1 saw a boy, set. 14, who for years had had repeated attacks of pain and inflammation about his great toe, more particularly after over-walking. He had been under the care of many medical men who had treated him for gout, &c., but who had never compared the sound with the affected toe. When I did this the source of the evil was very apparent, for the long extensor tendon was clearly contracted, and at its insertion into the base of the extreme phalanx there was much thick- ening. I divided the tendon, and recovery at once ensued. The biceps muscle of the arm is also at times so contracted as to prevent extension, and tenotomy may be called for. In fact, any tendon may contract under the influence of disease, and require divi- sion. Rigid atrophy.—Muscles that atrophy occasionally contract and become rigid, but this rigidity must not be mistaken for the spasmodic contraction of a muscle or group of muscles that is so common in pro- gressive disease, more particularly of joint disease, although it often fol-