146 URINARY FISTULAS. When simple. When complicated. Treatment. Use of catheter. Fistula after lithotomy. Fistula opening into rectum. scrotum, groin, tliighs, pubes, or nates (Fig. 367). They are generally the direct consequence of some urethral obstruction. Occasionally, however, they follow an accidental wound in the perinaeum or urethra, or some such operation as lithotomy. When the fistulse are simple tracts communicating with a urethra behind a stricture, and the tissues through which they pass are healthy, they need not be regarded with any anxiety, as, in all possibility, they will rapidly heal so soon as the urine flows readily the natural way after the dilatation of the stricture. When, however, the fistulas pass through indurated and diseased tissues and are associated with a contracted if not impermeable urethra, or are the result of some urinary extravasation and sloughing of the parts, the same success is not always secured. It is true that in a large number of cases when the stricture is dilated and cured the fistulm will close, but in exceptional cases they refuse to heal, and require the local stimulation of some such escharotic as the nitrate of silver, liquor ammonite, tincture of cantliarides, the galvanic or actual cautery, to stimulate the indolent passage and assist its contrac- tion. It should be remembered, also, that in all these cases it is the entrance of the urine into the fistulae which prevents their contraction and closure, and that any means by which such an occurrence can be prevented will be followed by recovery. To allow the patient to pass his urine is most injurious. To pass a plugged catheter into the urethra and leave it in will not suffice, as daily experience proves that urine soon flows by the side of the catheter and enters the fistula, the intro- duction of a vulcanite inelastic catheter into the bladder with its end open, is, however, a good practice, the urine flowing away as secreted. The best plan is, to have a catheter passed whenever the bladder re- quires to be emptied, and where the surgeon has dilated the stricture to its full size, as well as instructed the patient to pass an elastic catheter into the bladder, there are very few instances of urinary fistula that require further treatment. When difficulty is experienced in dilating the stricture, Syme’s operation may be performed, the surgeon when he can, laying open the fistula at the same time. The urinary fistula following lithotomy is best dealt with by the galvanic cautery and catheterism. In these cases, however, the sur- geon should always investigate the case sufficiently to assure himself of the absence of a second stone, or of a foreign body within the wound, for I have known in one case a sponge, that had been applied to arrest bleeding, left in the wound and prevent repair. In another a second calculus was overlooked, and prevented recovery, the fistula healed when the stone had been expelled by natural efforts through the fistulous perineal opening. I have likewise seen two cases where some calculous formations took place in the wound and thus kept it open. Urinary fistula the result of some abscess communicating with the rectum will generally heal as soon as the urine is prevented from en- tering the passage. The use of the catheter will sometimes effect this; at others, position will suffice, Sir H. Thompson gives a case in which recovery followed the practice of micturating in the prone position for a month. But any means that for a time prevents the passage of urine into the fistula will probably suffice to allow of its contraction. When this does not succeed, the passage may be stimulated by the gal-