ON OVARIAN DISEASE AND OVARIOTOMY. 273 operative interference that the answer has to he given, and at such a stage of the disease this becomes of little value. Having thus clear ideas on such an important point, we may ask our- selves at what period of the tumour’s growth should the operation of ovariotomy he entertained ? I have no hesitation in answering this question, as the operation should not be entertained when the tumour is small, and causing little or no mechanical inconvenience, or, when the patient is in sound health and well able to perform all the duties of life or enjoy its pleasures. Ovariotomy should not be thought of when the patient’s general condition of health is very had or the powers feeble; when there is evidence of disease in any other organ than the ovary, and it is tolerably evident that the powers of life are unable to withstand the shock of operation, or incapable of rendering the needful reparative assistance for the re- covery of the case. It is no more to be entertained under these cir- cumstances than would any other capital operation ; since the prin- ciples which guide the surgeon iu the oi’dinary conduct of his cases, and which should scrupulously be adhered to in the practice of all operations, are applicable to ovarian disease. It is true that a surgeon is sometimes led to perform an operation in neglected hernia, certain examples of amputation for disease or accident, in the ligature of a vessel, or the excision of a tumour when suffering is severe, and, if the patient be left alone, death is certain, although the probability of saving life is almost nil. Still, it is in exceptional examples of disease or injury that such operations are per- formed, and only when there is a possibility of success being obtained by au operation, and none without. Under like circumstances, a surgeon may be called upon to perform ovariotomy; when a patient is evi- dently being worn out by the disease, and by it alone; when life’s tortures are evidently becoming unbearable, and death can be calmly looked at and even wished for; when there is even a bare possibility that, on the removal of the local disease which is clearly destroying life, the powers of the patient may rally, and that at any rate relief to the suffering will be secured; under such conditions, an operation may be admissible. With the aid of chloroform, the operation is rendered painless, and it is certainly true that the after-pains are, as a rule, marvellously little, for I have heard patients frequently say, that the pains after the operation are not severe. Under certain circumstances, consequently, the surgeon may be justified in perform- ing ovariotomy with the object of giving relief, and when only a bare possibility exists of doing more, in the same way that he may be justi- fied in doing any other operation, with the same object and a like slender hope. When evidence or even a suspicion exists that the condition of the patient is due to some disorganizing change in the cyst itself, or some suppuration, the operation should be hastened. To wait is to allow the patient to die, for any improvment in the general condition is impossible so long as the local cause of the symptoms remains. The existence of an inflamed or suppurating ovarian cyst ought to be an argument for the surgeon to operate rather than the reverse. This condition should be suspected when fixed local pain or tenderness, con- stitutional disturbance, fever, a quick pulse, anda permanently hio-h tem- perature are found; when, iu fact, the general condition of the patient vol. II. jg When ovariotomy should not be performed. Operation justifiable when suffering is very severe. Where worn out by the disease alone. Where disorganizing change in cyst. Suppurating cyst.