412 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Symptoms. Eversion or inversion of foot. error in diagnosis be made, and tbe case being one of impacted frac- ture be overlooked, violent manipulative efforts will probably be made to reduce tbe supposed dislocation or to set tbe supposed fracture; or, what is equally probable, to decide the question between tbe pre- sence of the two by tbe detection or non-detection of crepitus. As a consequence of this violence, the impacted bones to a certainty will be loosened, if not worse disturbed, and the case will be changed from one in which the bones were placed favourably for union and recovery, into another in which a very different set of circumstances has to be encountered and a less favourable prognosis has to be given. Happily, however, the diagnosis of these cases is not difficult, and the symptoms that indicate the presence of an impacted or non- impacted fracture are fairly characteristic. They may be given as follows :—A blow or fall upon the trochanter, followed by more or less complete loss of power in the limb, a variable degree of shortening, a fixed, everted, inverted, or straight position of the foot, which moderate extension will not rectify, and when the impaction is great, an approximation of the great trochanter to the median line of the Fig. 502a. Figure showing how the trochanter of the fractured hone is drawn upwards nearer the anterior superior spine of the ilium. A, Normal length of base of iho-femoral triangle (Fig. 603); B, Shortened base of ilio-femoral triangle; C, Horizontal level of iraetured bone; D, Horizontal level of sound bone. body (Fig. 502a). The head of the bone will rotate in the acetabulum, and the trochanter with it, the rotation, however, of the trochanter taking place through an arc of a circle of which the head of the bone is tbe centre, instead of upon the axis of the shaft as in detached fracture of the neck. There will be indistinct or no crepitus. Local pain will always be felt on pressure behind the trochanter, and local thickening within a few days of the accident. When from the direction of the force applied to the trochanter the posterior wall of the neck is driven into the inter-trochanteric line, the limb will be rotated outwards and the foot everted ; and, when the anterior wall is driven into the bone, there will be inversion of the