561 ANESTHETICS. CHAPTER XXXY. ANESTHETICS. When Sir H. Davy’s attention was drawn in 1798 to Priestley’s General nitrons oxide gas by Dr. Mitchell’s theory that this gas “ was the prin- remar^S- ciple of contagion, and capable of producing the most terrible effects when respired by animals in the minutest quantities, or even when applied to the skin or muscular fibre,” and when he with Southey, the then Poet Laureate, and Coleridge, the philosopher, inhaled it with sufficient frequency “ to establish the fact that the gas possesses an intoxicating quality, to which the enthusiasm of persons submitting to its operation has imparted a character of extravagance wholly incon- sistent with truth” (‘ Life of Davy,’ by Paris, 1831), he little thought that he was then laying the basis of experimental investigations that were to form an epoch in the history of the world or rather of mankind, and to end in the introduction into practice of a new power, which, being of inestimable value to the general public, is of nearly equal value to the medical profession, and has been the means of revolu- tionising surgery to an extent which few are aware of; for the “ most terrible effects” with which this gas was credited have been transformed into the beneficial effects brought about by anaesthetics. In the present work, I have neither space nor inclination to go fully into the history of the subject. To the works of Snow, Sir James Simpson, Sansom, Druitt, Holmes, Dr. Marion Sims, MM. Perrin and Lallemand, I must refer the reader for full particulars on this subject. I shall content myself by recording the fact, that Dr. Crawford W. Long, of Athens, Georgia, was the first surgeon who, in March, 1842, performed a surgical operation while the patient was completely anaesthetized by the inhalation of sulphuric ether. Dr. Marion Sims (‘ Virginia Medical Monthly,’ May, 1877), remarks “ That the honour of the first public and authentic trial of surgical anaesthesia, by the aid of means newly discovered, belongs to an entirely obscure dentist, Horace Wells, of Hartford, Connecticut” (M. Perrin), this dentist having employed Davy’s nitrous oxide gas in dentistry in 1844 Nitrous with an excellent result. In 1846, Morton, Wells’ late partner, intro- oxide, duced into practice at Massachusett’s Hospital the use of sulphuric ether, probably on the suggestion of Dr. Jackson. In 1847, our own Lawrence, of St. Bartholomew’s, on the suggestion of a student, Mr. Purnell, now Principal of Madras Medical College, used chloric ether for the same purpose (‘ Holmes’s Syst.,’ vol. 5, Ed. 2), and in the autumn of the same year, Sir James Simpson gave to the profession the active principle of the chloric of ether, the chloroform, on the sugges- Chloroform, tion of Mr. Waldie, of Liverpool, and since then this drug or ether, separately or combined, bas been in general use. Other anesthetics, however, have been introduced, the bichloride of Bichloride of methyline being the most popular. methyline. How anesthetics act upon the body is not yet determined, although Their action, it is tolerably certain that the ultimate result is absolute paralysis of vol. ii. 36