447 DISEASES OP SPECIAL JOINTS. there will be no fluctuation, no soft yielding of the parts, but clearly an expansion of the osseous structure, an enlargement of the articular extremity of the bone, while the soft parts over the enlarged bone are quite natural. With this aching of the part, there may also be in- crease of heat as an early symptom, yet this symptom is not con- stant, although almost uniformly so; it will, moreover, be intermit- tent, and, as a rule, show itself as a general periodical flushing of the part. In chronic synovitis which leads to joint changes, the joint may pro- Manipulative bably be gently moved without exciting pain or spasm of the muscles indication iu that move the articulation. Pressure upon the part with the fingers will probably excite it, although moderate pressure of one bone against the other may be made without giving rise to any indications of dis- tress. , In diseases of the hone entering into the formation of the joint, jn diseases of these clinical conditions do not all exist. The joint may be moved bone ends, quietly, without exciting pain, but the attempt will, as a rule, ex- cite spasm of one or more of the groups of muscles which move the articulation. Moderate manipulation also will be well borne. Firm pressure upon the bone so as to bring the two articular surfaces inter- in contact will always excite pain, not the pressure produced by a jar, articular such as in the hip is caused by a sudden blow upon the foot or tro- Pres5nre- chanter, for such a mode of investigation must be looked upon as rough and somewhat uncertain; indeed, it is almost sure to excite a start in the patient and an expression of pain, but the pressure which is produced by a steady force applied by the hand to the trochanter towards the pelvis, or through the foot to the articular extremities of the bones; a pressure which, in synovial disease, rarely, if ever, gives rise to pain, but in osteal disease invariably excites it. These symptoms in the two classes of cases appear clearly to indicate the two distinct affections in their early stage. They apply to all articulations, and may be thus summarised:— In synovial disease, swelling is the earliest clinical symptom, with Summary, more or less fluctuation, each joint showing this in its own way. As a rule, this swelling is unattended with much pain. Pressure on the joint causes pain, although gentle movement may he made without increasing it or exciting spasm of the muscles which surround the joint. Inter-articular pressure can generally be tolerated. In articular ostitis, pain is the earliest and most constant symptom— Symptoms in pain of an aching character varying in intensity and generally increased articular by firm local pressure. There will be no visible enlargement of the 03tit'8- part for some weeks or months, and no fluctuation. Gentle move- ment, generally, excites spasm of muscles about the joint, and inter- articular pressure always increases this and causes pain. Increased heat also exists about the parts and is of an intermittent character. DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. Diseases of the Hip-joint. Authors have hitherto led their readers to look upon diseases of the On diseases hip-joint as a special or peculiar affection, and to regard it patho-of the hiP- logically and clinically as distinct from diseases of the other joints joint’