STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 132 recumbent. When there is a stricture the erect position is certainly wrong. The mode known as the “tour de maitre” has only to be named to be condemned; though in the hands of a skilled surgeon it may be done with impunity. The plan consists in introducing the catheter with the handle presenting downwards and the convexity of its curve upwards, passing it along the urethra down to the bulb, and then, onwards into the bladder, by describing a half circle towards the umbilicus, the handle of the instrumentwhen it has reached the median line of the body above being gradually depressed, and the end of the instrument in this turn made to enter the bladder. Treatment of Stricture. Pathology of stricture. Principles of treatment. Continuous or inter- mittent dilatation. Mode of carrying out continuous. The treatment of stricture must be based on the pathology of the disease; and mild means should always be preferred to forcible or cutting measures. The pathology of stricture is simple, and consists either in the deposition of inflammatory products in the mucous and submucous tissue with their subsequent contraction; or, in the contraction of a cicatrix, the result of an injury. The principle of treatment is also simple, for it is, 'primarily, to dilate the contracted canal, and secondarily, to obtain the absorp- tion or breaking-up of the effused inflammatory products. The more simple the means by which these ends can be secured the better. Where the first end has been obtained without the second, temporary benefit may have been effected, but no more. Where both ends can be gained by simple means, the treatment must be pronounced good. In ordinary cases of organic stricture, there is little doubt that these ends are to be secured by dilatation of the stricture ; and that by such local treatment alone, the majority of cases of organic stricture may be successfully overcome. Now, this treatment by dilatation may be continuous or intermittent. The former method is to be preferred, and should be carried out as follows; it is certainly tbe most rapid and effectual tbe surgeon has at his disposal, although it necessitates about a fortnight’s rest. The size of the stricture having been gauged, an elastic conical catheter with a bulbous end is to be taken and well oiled, and as large a one as can be passed through the stricture introduced. Should the English catheter be preferred, it ought to be made soft and flexible by being dipped in warm water or by friction with the finger, and used without the stylet. The penis of the recumbent patient must then be raised by the left hand and drawn forward as well as slightly down- ward, so as to make the urethra as straight as possible. The catheter should then be introduced, and passed gently down the passage. If obstruction be felt, the catheter may be slightly withdrawn and then pressed forwards, the largest instrument the stricture will admit with- out force being introduced, which having passed the stricture and entered the bladder, is to be fastened in (Fig. 359), the end of the catheter up to its eye alone resting in the bladder. The orifice of the catheter may either be plugged with a peg of wood or the end capped by a piece of india-rubber tubing, the free end