11 OZiENA. The septum may likewise be the seat of inflammation eithei acute or chronic; aud, as a result, great swelling of the soft parts covering it in will be present, giving rise to obstruction. When pus exists, an early opening is advantageous. In some cases, a perforating ulcer may appear; in others, exfoliation of the cartilage. I have removed from a boy, a cartilaginous outgrowth from the septum which obstructed the nostril. Tumour, which had a base the size of a sixpence. Ozsena. This term is applied to a large aud important class of cases where an Ozsena. offensive discharge, or rather smell, is the common symptom, which is due to many different morbid conditions. It has been said that this offensive smell is the result of some morbid Source of secretion of the part, but my own experience has not furnished me fetor- with any information tending to confirm such an idea, and, I believe, that the fetor is generally, if not always, the result of the decomposi- tion of retained mucus. At one time it may be associated with an ulcer of the mucous membrane; and at another, with some diseased bone the result of syphilis or otherwise; but, under all circumstances, the disease is an insidious one, and many months have usually elapsed before it comes under the notice of the surgeon or medical adviser. The patient at first believes the symptoms to depend upon an ordi- Symptoms, nary catarrh; the discharge from the nose being thick, but not offensive, and the sense of smell more or less impaired. If these symptoms continue, the health of the sufferer often declines, and the physician is consulted on account of want of power, the local symptoms assuming a secondary importance. If the nose be examined at this time, as it Local should be, with a speculum, to obtain a good view7 of the whole, the examination, only visible morbid condition will be, intense congestion of the mucous membrane, which will not be much, if at all thickened. This con- gestion of the mucous membrane being associated with excess of secretion. Treatment.—The only correct and satisfactory treatment is the Treatment, constitutional. When the general condition of the body is improved the General, local disease will disappear. To this end the hygienic conditions by which the patient is surrounded should be considered. If tonics, as quinine or iron are indicated, they should be administered; the secre- tions also should be attended to, and all external and internal causes removed which may prove detrimental to health. The local treatment Local, consists in absolute cleanliness and the removal of all retained secretions, and for this purpose there is nothing equal to the use of the douche (Fig. 299), saline medicated lotions being employed. The inhalation of steam will at times assist the removal of the secretion and relieve the state of fulness of the part, of which some patients so much com- plain. In other cases, the injection of warm water affords relief, especially if the discharges have a tendency to desiccate, adhere to the mucous lining, and, as a consequence, to putrefy ; since it is this putre- faction of the retained muco-purulent secretion on which essentially depends the condition denominated ozcena. Ozccna, therefore, may be simply the result of a state like that which has just been described ; and if so, must be treated on like principles. The offensive discharge must be removed by the free use of a douche or syringe, so that no