dislocations of the carpal bones. 348 I lmve seen the former accident but once, and that case is fio-ured "f , It was in a woman, set. 56, who was admitted into my ward at ouy s for another affection. The dislocation had taken place some months previously, and had never been reduced. It was the result of a fall upon the dorsum of the hand. Pronation and supination of the hand were limited, and the ulna was fixed in its new position. The hand was more pronated than natural, but very useful. Fig. 450. Dislocation of the hand and radius forwards off the ulna. Such dislocations are readily reduced by extending the hand and also by the application of pressure to the displaced bones. After their re- duction, anterior and posterior splints should be applied for two or three weeks to prevent the bones slipping out of position, and to allow the ligaments time to unite. In the case figured no treatment was available. Dislocation of Dislocation of the carpal bones is an occasional though rare acci- carpal bones. deu^ and the displacement of the os magnum backwards, from a fall upon the flexed hand, is the most frequent form. I have known this to occur in a woman during the efforts of parturition in grasping a towel and forcibly bending the wrists, the bone being pressed out of its connection. When the accident occurs, the prominent head of the bone on the dorsum of the wrist in a line with the metacarpal bone of the middle finger is too marked a feature to allow of there being any difficulty in the diagnosis. The bone, as a rule, is easily reduced by pressure, and kept in position by means of a pad. This pad must be maintained in position for many weeks after the accident, to allow time for the ligaments to consolidate. South, in a note to his translation of Chelius, records a case in which the 'pisiform tone was displaced ; while Fergusson and Erichsen describe others caused by overaction of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Erichsen also Of semilunar, mentions a dislocation backwards of the semilunar bone, and in St. George’s Hospital Museum there is a specimen of compound dislo- cation of this bone on both sides, occasioned by a fall from a height upon the hands, in which the bones were pressed out of a wound in front of the wrist. Maisonneuve has recorded (f Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,’ tome ii) a case, in which the second row of carpal bones was displaced backwards from the first; and Erichsen another in which the metacarpal bones were displaced backwards from the carpus. These accidents are very rare. Dislocation of Dislocation of the thumb at any of its joints is not unusual. The meta- the thumb, carpal bone may be displaced backwards or forwards from the trape- Of 08 magnum. Of pisiform.