FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 394 Fracture or separation a epiphysial line. Cause. Symptoms. When complete. When partial. When impacted. Treatment. More commonly a fracture about tbe head of the bone means a fracture in the line, or a separation of the epiphysis, the epiphysis including the head and the tuberosities. This accident is generally the result of a fall on the elbow, and the symptoms of the accident are tolerably distinct. The head of the bone can be felt in its normal position, but is not movable on rotating the shaft, while the end of the displaced shaft is usually sent forward. When fractured, the bone presents a sharp edge and outline; but when displaced—an accident that can only occur in subjects under twenty-one—the end of the bone appears rounded and slightly convex. It is, moreover, drawn forward by the action of the pectoral muscles, and made to pro- ject beneath the coracoid process in a marked and characteristic manner. In Fig. 483, taken from a male patient of mine, set. 16, this is well seen. Fig. 483. Separation of shaft of humerus from upper epiphysis. When the separation is complete, the displacement will be very marked. When partial, it will be equally characteristic, but, in partial dislocation of the shaft, some mobility of the head of the bone will exist. In this accident the shaft may be at times re-placed by manipulation, “ but the moment the parts are abandoned to the uncontrolled action of the muscles the deformity recurs.”—R. Smith. When impaction of either fragment exists, no crepitus will be felt unless forcible movement be made, when it may be elicited. Care how- ever, should be observed in seeking for this information, as a forcible separation of the impacted bones is a fatal error. The accident is gene- rally to be made out by the nature of the injury, the shortening of the limb, the absence of crepitus, and the movement of the head of the bone on making gentle rotation of the shaft. In fractures of the anatomical neck when the head of the bone is driven into the tuberosity and shaft, as in all other forms of impacted fracture, union will go on if the impacted bones are not displaced by manipulation. The surgeon, therefore, has only to apply some simple splint, such as an anterior and posterior or lateral, or Stromeyer’s cushion (Fig. 497), to maintain rest, and the same treatment is applied in fracture or separation of the epiphyses when the bones have