16 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE. On restoration of the columns. Operation described. civilised countries, must be more frequently required than tbe restora- tion ot the whole nose. This latter operation came to be practised in consequence of tbe frequency of multilations as a punishment; but the punishment for some of our sins is left to Nature, and she generally relents before the whole of tbe organ disappears. This columna is frequently destroyed by ulcera- tion. The deformity produced by its loss, is not far short of that caused by destruction of the whole nose. Happily, after the ulceration has been checked the part can be renewed neatly, safely,and without much suffer- ing to the patient. The opera- tion which I have practised successfully for some years, and in many instances, is thus performed:—The inner surface of the apex is first pared. A sharp-pointed bistoury is then passed through the upper lip— previously stretched and raised by an assistant—close to the ruins of the former columna, and about an eighth of an inch on one side of the mesial line. The incision is continued down, in a straight direction, to the free margin of the lip; and a similar one, parallel to the former, is made on the opposite side of the mesial line, so as to insulate a flap about a quarter of an inch in breadth, and composed of skin, mucous membrane, and interposed sub- stance. The frsenulum is then divided, and the prolabium of the flap removed. In order to fix a new columna firmly aud with accuracy in its proper place, a sewing needle is passed from without through the apex of the nose, and obliquely through the extremity of the elevated flap; a few turns of thread over this suffices to approximate and retain the surfaces. It is to be observed that the flap is not twisted round, as in the operation already detailed, but simply elevated, so as to do away with the risk of failure. Twisting is here unnecessary, for the mucous lining of the lip, forming the outer surface of the columna, readily assumes the colour and appearance of integument, after ex- posure for some time. The fixing of the columna having been accom- plished, the edges of the lip must be neatly brought together.” The sutures can be removed on the third or fourth day, when, as a rule, the parts have cicatrised. The ultimate result of the case depends materially upon the care bestowed upon its after-treatment. In the case illustrated in Fig. 309, which I operated upon several years ago, a gratifying result ensued, the bridge of the nose re- quiring no second operation. Dr. Lichtenberg has had within the last few years some very successful cases ; and the late Mr. Skey had some excellent results in his practice. I saw one that he had operated upon years before, which was very excellent. It is well, however, to remember Fia. 309. Appearance of face after formation of new nose.