448 DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. General remarks. Not strictly a constitu- tional disease. Is a local affection. A frequent disease. Statistics. Ages. Such, however, is not the case, for diseases of the hip-joint differ in no single pathological point from those of any other articulation. It has also with too much confidence been described as a “ strumous disease,” as if all diseases of the hip-joint or of any joint were generally of this nature, or found in subjects only of a strumous diathesis; as if all had a constitutional and not a local origin. Hip-joint disease is a local disease, and is mostly set up by local causes. It is, moreover, as amenable to local treatment as any other affection. “ It occurs very frequently in strumous children,” says Mr. Holmes, “ a circumstance which has led to its being denominated ‘ strumous,’ but it seems to have no necessary connection with struma, unless so wide a signification be assigned to that somewhat vague term as would render the designation itself unmeaning. If by struma be meant a state of the system which renders the subject of it prone to the deposit of tubercle in the viscera, I think that there is good reason for asserting that morbus coxarius often attacks children who are not strumous—i. e. who do not display any such tendency to the deposit of tubercle—and therefore that no decisive proof of any strumous ten- dency is afforded by the presence of the affection. If, on the contrary, struma be, defined as that condition of the system which disposes its sub- jects to the development of low inflammations of various kinds, then it is difficult to see what is the significance of the designation.” It would, therefore, be well to discard the erroneous notion that hip disease has its origin in a constitutional cause, for till that is effected the local treatment is likely to be disregarded or looked upon as of secondary importance, when all who have much experience in the treat- ment of these cases will admit that local treatment cannot be made too prominent a feature. It should therefore be looked upon clinically as a local affection and to be treated by local means, such constitutional treatment being employed as the general condition of the patient may appear to warrant, the same principles of practice being applicable in these cases as have been found of value in other joint affections. Hip disease, unfortunately, is a very common affection, and my own statistics inform me that it forms about 30 per cent, of the joint cases admitted into a metropolitan hospital. It is also an affection of child life, for out of 360 cases of which I have notes, 62 per cent., or nearly two thirds, occurred in children under ten years of age, and four fifths in patients under twenty, that is, it occurred during the period .of the growth and development of the bone, and not during that of its full maturity. This point will be seen on reference to the following table:— Table showing the ages at which hip disease commenced. Four years and under Between 6 and 10 years of age „ 11 „ 20 „ 21 „ 30 ,, 31 ,, 40 „ Above 40 years of age 126 cases j 223 cases, or 61-9 97 86 27 13 11 per cent, or 23'8 per cent, or 7'5 „ or 36 „ or 3 „ J30 of these cases were collected by me when acting as registrar at 3uy’s from 1853 to 1861; and 130 are from the notes of cases which lave been under my own care.