TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. 243 will fail. The one principle of practice which seems to he the most valuable is the establishment of a dependent outlet; and for this pur- pose the introduction of a drainage tube is a simple and successful practice. If there are many sinues, some pressure may he employed by means of strapping, care being taken that the openings are left uncovered to ensure a free passage for the discharge. Superficial sinuses may be slit up, when other means fail, and in very chronic cases some irritant such as iodine, may be injected, to excite a fresh action. The great principle of practice in these cases, however, appears to be that to which I have already alluded, although other means may at times be demanded. Chronic Induration of the Gland. This affection occurs when, from some cause or other, the gland is j^nraSonft f morbidly excited. It is chiefly found in unmarried women between brcosT. °' ° the ages of thirty-eight and forty ; though it occurs in the married, and then, as a rule, in the sterile. It is usually associated with some catamenial irregularity or general disturbance, and more particularly of the nervous system. The affection is known by the excessive sensibility of the indurated Symptoms, gland on manipulation, the nervous excitement the examination causes, the total absence of any local indications of a tumour when the fingers are placed fiat upon the part, and, the induration of the gland or lobe of the gland, when the organ is raised from the pectoral muscle and pinched. The treatment consists in correcting what is wTrong in the general Treatment, condition of the patient by meaus of iron, tonics, and alteratives, and soothing the affected part. Cold lotions are at times grateful, while at others a belladonna plaster affords relief, with or without pressure. Large breasts should be suspended, and all should be protected by cotton wool from the risks of injury. The irritable mamma of young girls is closely allied to the affection On irritable just described; and is associated with a morbidly sensitive condition of mamma, the mammary gland and parts around, and often with some indura- tion. It is an affection closely connected with the pelvic generative organs which are mostly found to be not acting fairly, as indicated by catamenial irregularity, &c. This condition is, doubtless, at times excited by depraved habits. It should be treated on the same principle as the last affection. ON TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. Their Clinical Examination and Diagnosis. Tumours of the breast may rationally be accounted for by following out the functional aberrations of the organ, and in proof of this the student should study carefully the highly suggestive and valuable work of Dr. Charles Creighton,1 who has shown that “ the investiga- Dr. Creigh- tion of breast tumours reveals merely the working of the physio- ton s views* logical law of healthy mammary activity under altered circumstances, that various degrees of disordered function may result in various kinds of tumours,” and that tumour disease of the breast is “ essentially a disorder of function.” 1 ‘ Contributions to the Physiology and Pathology of the Breast,’ 1878.