552 ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OP THE HEAD. Trephining. Removal of bone fragments. Summary. cranium or its contents should bo entertained. All foreign bodies in the integuments outside the skull ought to be taken away as soon as discovered. The opinion of most surgeons is decidedly against the operation of trephining in gunshot wounds of the head. When the operation is entertained it should only be in compound fractures with depression attended with brain symptoms. The experience of the Crimean war, of our own as well as of French surgeons—of the Schleswig-Holstein and Franco-Prussian wars as recorded by Stromeyer—of the Indian war as told us by Dr. Williamson, is, without doubt, decidedly against this operation. In the Crimean campaign, the trephine was only success- fully employed in four cases in our own army, and among the French, it was for the most part fatal. The late American war, however, gives us a more favorable result, but the report itself states that “ the data are not sufficiently com- plete to admit of fair comparative analysis,” so judgment must be withheld. In compound fracture, loose fragments may always be removed. In all penetrating wounds of the skull with lodgment of the projectile, operative interference is out of all question. As a rule, writes Mac Cormac, “ the largest proportion of good results will obtain amongst those cases where the amount of operative surgery has been at a minimum.” By way of summary, it may be remembered, that cerebral concus- sion, rupture of one of the cerebral sinuses, and fatal intra-cranial haemorrhage may take place from a gunshot projectile without any external marks of injury, and that a gunshot injury of the head, followed by a scalp wound, without any cerebral symptom, may be followed by inflammation of the bone and meningitis. The vitreous or inner table of the skull may be fissured, depressed, and even detached, without any fracture of the external table. The drawings taken from Circular VI of the Washington War Department, illustrate the fact (Fig. 604-5), such accident being probably the result of a small projectile striking the cranium very obliquely. Fissure of the internal table may also co-exist with a linear fissure of the external table. A ball may gouge out a portion of the external table of the skull without injuring the cranial contents. The part or the whole of a ball, may partially penetrate the skull and be retained, or not enter it, or pass through it; the wound of exit through the thickness of bone, or through the two sides being larger than the wound of entrance. Penetrating and perforating fractures of the cranium terminate favorably in quite exceptional instances. Hernia or fungus cerebri may take place after gunshot, as after other injuries, and recovery in these cases may occur, the experience of surgeons in the American war clearly showing that this result is more likely to take place without, than with compression or operative interference. Trephining may only be undertaken with a fair prospect of success in local fractures with depression and brain symptoms; loose fragments of bone being always removed in all compound wounds.