263 DIAGNOSIS OF OVARIAN TUMOURS. CHAPTER XXVII. ON OVARIAN DISEASE AND OVARIOTOMY. The ovaries are glands, and are developed as other glands, being composed of like elements. In them during infancy and childhood, although cell growth and even cell shedding may go on, such processes take place silently, unattended by any external manifestations of their action. At puberty, however, when the ovum has matured and impreg- nation become impossible, external signs of these changes appear with menstruation, and with these changes, functional disturbances of the ovaries and parts connected with them occur which may require the attention of the physician. The surgeon’s aid is only called for when organic ovarian disease exists, and the nature of this aid varies with the nature of the case. Ovarian disease is a somewhat common affection, and, although Ovarian mostly met with during the active period of ovarian life, it occurs in dlsu,se- childhood and mature age. Two specimens now in the College of Surgeons were taken from twin children five and eight weeks re- spectively by Dr. Leared, and a rare preparation at Prague shows a cyst in the ovary of a child a year old. Spencer Wells has recorded a successful case of ovariotomy in a child mt. eight, Dr. Barker, of Philadelphia, had another in one aged six years and eight months. I have recorded two cases in which girls aged respectively fifteen and sixteen sank after tapping from suppuration of the cyst; and in 1869,1 published in the ‘ Guy’s Hospital Reports ’ a case in which I successfully removed a polycystic ovarian tumour from a child aged fourteen, in whom no signs of puberty existed. But these instances are exceptional, and ovarian disease is essentially an affection of mature adult life. Ovarian tumours may be clinically divided into four classes:—Mono- cystic, or unilocular tumours, polycystic, or multilocular tumours, dermoid cysts, and, cancerous tumours. The relative frequency of these different forms of tumours is well seen in the following conclu- sions that were drawn up after a careful examination of the records of 88 fatal cases of ovarian disease, extracted for me by the late Dr. Phillips from the Guy’s Records, and copied from my work ‘ On Ovario- tomy’ published in 1867. Conclusions, drawn from an analysis of 88 fatal cases of ovarian Analysis of diseaseeighty-eight 1. That 9 per cent, of the ovarian tumours are apparently mono- ^at?* eases cystic; 9 per cent, dermoid; 18 per cent, cancerous, and the remaining conclusions 64 per cent, polycystic or compound. derived 2. That 53 per cent, of the cases are on the left side, 20 per cent, on therefrom, the right, and only 17 per cent, double. 3. That simple cystic disease of the ovary is rarely double, and that, when double ovarian disease exists, the majority of the cases are can- cerous, colloid, or of the solid kind. 4. That about 70 per cent, of the cases are in married women, and that the disease is most frequent between the age of twenty and forty, or during the vigour of sexual life. 5. That the disease runs its course in at least 75 per cent, of all