312 DEFORMITIES. and, in rarer cases, bones and joints seem to be deficient. Thus, in a male subject I had under care some years ago the right arm was shortened as if amputated above the elbow, and the right lower ex- tremity was represented by one short bone, with a foot that would have been called perfect if the little toe had not been absent. These cases are mentioned, however, only as curiosities, and are beyond the pale of the surgeon’s art. M,d- Clawlike extremities as represented in Nos. 1, 11, and 12, Fig. 419, development. are very curious. No. 1 represents the hands of George N—, set. 7 weeks, the third child of well-made parents, the other children being natural. Very little power existed in the claws, one finger alone being of use. The child in other respects was well made and intelligent. Nos. 11 and 12 were taken from Edward E—, sat. 4, one of eight children, three being boys and five girls, one brother having precisely the same deformity. The parents were well made. The hands in No. 11, had apparently but three metacarpal bones; the wrist and carpal joints being normal; the solitary digit had much power. The feet in No. 12, were still more oddly made. In both, the tarsal bones seemed to be natural, but on the right foot the metatarsal bones were confused together. The digits had good power. Nothing could be suggested for the patient’s benefit. Hereditary nature of deformities. Heredity. The hereditary nature of deformities is generally recognised, though in the history of such cases it is exceptional for such a tendency to be traced. When, however, it is made out it is, as a rule, remarkable. De- formities when inherited, are also generally of a like kind. Thus, de- Generally of formities of the genital organs are passed on to succeeding generations, like kind. ag ;g tjje deposition to harelip or webbed fingers, &c. Exceptions to Exceptions to this rule are met with. Thus, in a family of twelve children, two out of four boys had harelip and fissured palate, and one out of eight girls had hypertrophy of the right lower extremity, with atrophy of the right great toe. The father of this family had a supernumerary little finger on one hand. A female child, one of five, the other four being well made, had hy- pertrophy of the two inner toes of the left foot. They were at five weeks old as large as the toes of an adult, and as well made. The parents had no deformity, but the father’s maternal grandfather had a double thumb. A boy had a double thumb on one hand and a web between the second and third toes of both feet. His father had webbed toes. These exceptions to the rule above given are, however, rare. Examples of As illustrations of the rule, the following cases have been extracted law. from my note-books. A man had six perfect toes on each foot, and six perfect fingers on each hand. He was one of ten children, all of whom had the same kind of deformity. The parents of these children were, however, well made. A female child had left equino-varus. She was one of eight children, the other seven being well made. The parents had no such deformity, but the mother had two brothers and one sister so deformed, and her father had double talipes. A man had scrotal hypospadiasis, and was one of nine children. Both his parents were well formed,and no history of deformity could be traced