PATHOLOGY OF JOINT DISEASES. 440 On the term strumous disease of a joint. Practically it misleads. A term to he given up. Changes in the synovial membrane under inflammation. Before proceeding to consider the changes the different tissues un- dergo from the inflammatory process, it will be well to ask whether there is such a disease as strumous disease of a joint, strumous disease of the synovial membrane or bone ? If I were to answer this question according to custom as indicated by the free application of the term to joint disease, I should unques- tionably say that it was a common affection, for there are few chronic changes of a joint that are not so designated, and it is rare to meet in a delicate child with any chronic affection of a joint which is not regarded by some as a strumous disease. Indeed, from the constant use of the phrase it .might be thought, that the term strumous disease had some definite meaning or conveyed some definite idea, that the affection so designated was of a special kind, could be recognised by special features, and possessed definite pathological characteristics. Yet it can hardly be said that such is practically the case; for if we look for the points of difference between the so-called strumous disease and the chronic inflammatory affections we shall fail to find them, since they are not clinically to be distinguished, nor practically to be separated. Indeed, I am more than satisfied that the so-called strumous disease of a joint is nothing more than a chronic inflamma- tion of the bones or synovial membrane, or both; that the pathological changes in the affected tissues are such as are clearly traceable to a low form of inflammatory action, and that they differ in no single pathological point from the inflammatory changes found in other parts. It is true that such affections being of a low type, differ from other inflammatory actions of a more healthy character, but that they are nevertheless inflammatory there can be no doubt. Practically, therefore, it would be well to expunge this term “strumous” in respect of joints from our vocabulary; as its use certainly misleads, by making the student believe that the term has a definite meaning when it has not; and by encouraging the idea that the disease to which it is applied has a constitutional more than a local origin, and is con- sequently incurable. Of this, however, I am sure, that so-called strumous disease of a joint is as curable and as amenable to treatment as any other chronic inflammatory disease. In saying this, however, I do not dispute the fact that, pathologically, we do at rare intervals find tubercular deposit in some of the tissues building up a joint, and particularly in the bone; but I must repeat what I wrote many years ago in my work on diseases of the joints, “ that such preparations being so rare are to be regarded as pathological curiosities.” They are discovered also accidentally, and cannot clinically be recognised by any characteristic features from other cases of chronic inflammation of the bone. It would be well, therefore, to give up the term in scien- tific discussion, or, if it be used at all, to use it in the same sense as the words tumours, rheumatism, and fever are now employed, as a broad general term that includes many affections and covers much ignorance. With these general remarks I now pass on to consider the changes the different tissues entering into the formation of a joint undergo in the inflammatory process. On the pathological changes which take place in the synovial membrane from inflammation. In a pathological point of view, inflammation of the synovial