313 CLUB-FOOT. backwards. One of his sisters had harelip, while two of his brothers were deformed as he was, one having passed as a female till he was eighteen years of age. Two other brothers and three sisters were natural, but each of these brothers had a son a hypospadiac. These cases are very striking. Club-foot. When paralysis takes place of a single muscle or of a group of muscles Paralytic functionally associated, the opposing muscle or group losing antagonism, “‘stortions. acts uncontrolled, and, as a consequence, contraction or deformity is liable to be produced, the deformities resulting from this class of cases being designated paralytic distortions. When a muscle or a group of muscles, from whatever cause acts spasmodically with an active tonic contraction, or a slow and progressive Spasmodic one quite irrespective of the will, or but slightly influenced by it, and distortions, in this way overcomes the opposing muscle or group of muscles, defor- mities may likewise he produced, such cases being called spastic or spasmodic distortions. In the first class, the degree of deformity depends much upon the degree of paralysis that is present, and in the second, on the amount of spasm or contracting force of the muscles involved. Some surgeons would class all deformities in the first group, hut this view is incorrect. Both may he congenital or acquired. In the congenital, greater How changes take place in the conformation of the hones than in the produced, acquired, these changes depending much upon the intensity of the muscular action, but more upon the period of life at which they com- menced. “ It seems as if in congenital club-foot and analogous distortions a Little’s stimulus or irritant were present in the medulla spinalis, acting upon Vlews- certain ganglionic cells there, which keeps the affected muscle in a state of tonic contraction, yet not sufficient to neutralise the stimulus of the will within the limits of movement permitted by the structural shortening of the member. Many non-congenital spastic contractions appear allied to the condition which prevails in some states of chorea, in which, when the will would permit or cause contraction or relaxa- tion of a particular muscle, an involuntary influence excites contrac- tion, interferes with and frustrates the voluntary effort. In more intense spasmodic contractions the will is entirely overpowered before structural shortening supervenes to effect the same end.”— Little. As an extra argument in favour of this view, the fact may be adduced that club-foot often co-exists with other deformities, such as spina bifida and club-hand, &c. “ Congenital and non-congenital club-foot spring from analogous causes.” When these muscular contractions are powerful enough or continue long enough to alter the natural position of a part, deformity is said to exist, and according to its seat or form has it a special name. To Stromeyer abroad as well as to Little in this country, are we chiefly indebted for most of our knowledge on this matter, although in more recent times Tamplin, Lonsdale, W. Adams, Brodhurst, and others have added much to the subject.