385 REPAIR OP FRACTURES. When pain or swelling of the limb follows the application of any of these splints, they should he at once removed, the whole being cut up, with strong scissors from end to end, eyelets being subsequently introduced for laces to draw them together again, or, straps and buckles may be employed. . .„ ,, . , Repair of fractures.—In children broken bones repair rapidly, four Repair of weeks being ample time for the whole process to be perfected, while in the aged, ten weeks or more may be needed. Repair goes.on more rapidly when the broken ends of the bones are placed and kept in position than when they are apart or not kept at perfect rest. When bones are maintained accurately in position or are impacted, direct union ensues as in the soft parts, but when movement is allowed, reparative material provision(ll is poured out around the broken fragments, and the provisional callus of authors, or the ensheathing callus of Paget, is formed, which, acting as a temporary splint, keeps the bones in position till they unite by means of the permanent callus. The best repair of a fracture is the direct, and when provisional callus exists some mobility of the broken bone has been allowed, to a certainty. This addition to our knowledge is due to Sir J. Paget, for until his day, a provisional callus was always looked upon as a necessary means for the repair of every fracture. We now know it is only present when mobility of the fragments interferes with direct repair, and, in proportion to the amount of provisional callus, may the extent of mobility be estimated. When a bone is broken, blood is effused, the amount depending upon Effusion of the degree of injury to the soft parts and the amount of comminution blood, of the bone; it is exceptional to find blood between the broken bones. In simple fracture the periosteum may be only torn across; in the Laceration of comminuted it is more extensively injured, while in incomplete frac- periosteum, tures it is probably always entire. After a simple fracture some slight inflammatory exudation may be poured out around the broken bone, which in healthy subjects is very limited and unattended by any constitutional symptoms. In more complicated cases or in cachectic subjects, the effusion may be exten- sive, and constitutional symptoms with febrile disturbance severe. Under favorable conditions, this inflammatory material will be absorbed with the effused blood. The true reparative material is poured out about the sixth or ninth day, and, when no displacement exists, it will be effused only between the ends of the broken bones; when, however, the bones are comminuted it will be more diffused. When they are misplaced, it will be still less defined, and when the periosteum is much separated or torn, it will be poured out around the bones as a provisional callus. The true reparative products are chiefly poured out by the peri- Reparative osteum and endosteum, though the soft parts around at times add their products quota. In the flat bones, the ossification of this reparative material has a 'or®e? ,)-v preliminary fibrous tissue stage, and in the long after the blood has ami Um been absorbed, the cell infiltration passes on to the formation of con- endosteum, nective tissue or neoplasm which subsequently ossifies, in rare cases passing through the stage of fibro-cartilage. In children, it is probable that the cartilaginous stage always precedes the osseous, while in adults, the bone is poured out at once, which is probably always the case in all rapidly repairing fractures. Ossification may take place in the periosteal blastema or in the endosteal or in both—these points being greatly determined by the vol. ii. 25