134 STRICTURE OP THE URETHRA. Where catheter grasped and held tight. On the splitting of strictures. Holt’s instrument. Dilatation performed. pressure may be kept up for two or three minutes, the parts often yielding under its influence and allowing the instrument to pass. If this end be obtained, let the surgeon be satisfied and leave the catheter in, whether silver or elastic, for should he remove it, he will in all probability fail to pass a second. If the instrument be silver, an elastic one should be substituted when it is removed. When a catheter is grasped and “ held ” in the urethra, the operator may be tolerably sure that he has entered the stricture, and if the end be moveable he may be equally sure that he is in a false passage. When the catheter has been held and passed forwards into the bladder, all is well, when it slips suddenly into a moveable space, the urethra has probably been perforated. Under these circumstances, when a false passage probably exists, it is wise to give up local treatment for a few days to allow the parts to heal. A stricture should be dilated up to its fullest extent. It is important to bear in mind, that after the full dilatation of a stricture, contraction will again talce place after a time, if the passage be not kept open; but the introduction of a catheter once in every two, three, four, or more months according to circumstances, is generally sufficient to prevent such a result taking place. What in modern language is called “the rapid or immediate treatment of stricture” is in reality its ruptui'e or splitting—it being in all probability a rare thing for a stricture to be suddenly, fully, and rapidly dilated without being lacerated. The plan known by this name has cei'tainly a taking title, and in practice, has apparent advantages which, if supported by experience, woixld establish its claims on the attention of surgeons. In our day, it is known as that of Holt, but Holt’s instruments are mere modifications of M. Perreve’s made in 1847, and the same sort of practice has been adopted by Mr. T. Wakley, Dr. Hutton, of Dublin, Maisonneuve, Buchanan, and others. Holt describes his instrument “as consisting of two grooved blades, fixed in a divided handle, and containing between them a wire welded to their points, and on this wire a tube (which when introduced between the blades corresponds to the natural calibre of the urethra) is quickly passed, and thus ruptux-es or splits the obstruction.” The stricture having been split, the dilator should be rotated to separate further the sides of the rent, and then withdrawn; a catheter corresponding to the number of the tube being substituted for the purpose of removing the urine. This method, however, no more effects a permanent cure of a stricture than the plan of dilatation already referred to, since every hospital surgeon has been called upon to treat cases of stricture that had been subjected to the plan and then relapsed. Indeed, there is reason to believe, that after “ the rapid method” an early x*elapse is mox'e common than aftei’ other's, and that the cicatrices of these split structures contract faster than the original. Bad, and even fatal effects, moreover-, are more common after the splitting operation than after gradual dilatatiou. The plan of treatment by dilatation I have laid down is absolutely safe, and never is followed by a fatal result; but this caxxnot be said after the splitting of the structure, although facts are wanted to establish the px’opox'tion of fatal to the successful cases. To narrow, l'iug or annular, subpubic or penile strictures, Holt’s