OPEN TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. 257 and in no way will affect the patient otherwise than through local causes. It is never associated with secondary glandular enlargements or with deposits in other tissues, as the cancerous tumour, and it can, therefore, be by local symptoms only that a correct diagnosis is to be made. The tumour, being a genuine cystic disease, is always made up of Made up of cysts filled with intra-cystic growths in different degrees, and it is also c-3 s' a disease of the gland itself, the cysts having a distinct relation with the gland ducts. The cysts having, therefore, in the majority, if not in A disease of all cases, some communication through the nipple with the external an surface, can be partially emptied of their contents by pressure through the nipple of the affected organ. As a result, this discharge from the nipple must always materially tend to confirm the impressions which may have been formed by the careful observation of the case, and by the presence of those conditions to which attention has just been drawn. Consequently a cystic tumour of the mammary gland in a healthy Summary, woman, unattended by any other than local symptoms, and associated with the discharge of a clear or coloured viscid secretion from the nipple, which can be induced or materially increased by pressure, may, with considerable confidence, be set down as the true cystic adenocele of the breast. The false adenoceles or other tumours, which have but little if any connection with the true gland-tissue, are new growths partaking of the nature of the breast-gland, according to the universal pathological law, that all new growths partake of the nature and pecu- liarities of the structure in which they are developed. Galactocele. p This is a milk tumour found in the breast during lactation, the Galactocele. result of some retention of milk in an obstructed or ruptured duct, the secretion being either fluid milk-like, or more solid and creamy, owing to the absorption of the more fluid elements. Prep. 2290s0 229090, and 229940, Guy’s Museum, illustrate these points. It usually occurs somewhat suddenly during suckling, and is indicated by a painless fluctuating swelling, unaccompanied by any constitutional disturbance.- These cysts at times attain a large size. Scarpa has recorded a case in which two pints of milk were removed from the tumour. It should be treated by an incision into the cyst, leaving the walls of the cavity to granulate. Other Tumours of Breast. Adenomata or adenoceles, cystic or otherwise, are not, however, the Sarcomatous only innocent tumours of the breast, as the sarcomatous are occa- tumours, i sionally met with; these being generally more succulent and less solid I than the adenomata and more rapid in their growth, while they have j also a greater tendency to return after removal. I removed such a i tumour in 1868, which weighed nearly five pounds, from the breast of R a woman, at. 34 (‘Path. Trans.,’vol. xix). They are more closely i connected with the breast than the adenomata, although they do ; not infiltrate it like the cancers. They run their course moreover more ii rapidly than the former and have a tendency to break down, giving i rise to a bleeding mass of tissue which may he mistaken for a cancer. • They are also local, and are rarely associated with any secondary i grandular enlargement. They should be dealt with as adenomata and •i‘ removed. VOL. II. 17