ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 557 fusions, fractures which are rarely simple, and compound fractures, wounds of joints, and compound fractures into joints. All these may be complicated with some injury to the vessels and nerves of the part, and the lodgment of foreign bodies or projectiles. Gunshot flesh wounds usually do well unless complicated with lesions of the vessels and nerves. Fractures from gunshot wounds are sometimes simple, hut more Causing commonly compound. When simple, they are generally caused by blows fracture, from spent balls or other projectiles, the bones usually being split or comminuted and contused, the soft parts equally suffering, and the bones, not rarely, being split vertically into a neighbouring joint When compound the same comminution and splintering of the hone is commonly present, associated with other complications, such as severe laceration of the soft parts, involving arteries, veins, or nerves, with their attendant dangers, lodgment of fragments, or the whole of the foreign body in the bone or soft parts, and some joint complication from the splitting of the bone into the joint, or from direct injury to the joint. Military surgeons, however, writes Professor Longmore (in ‘ Holmes’s Partial System ’), meet with cases of partial fracture. “ 1. Removal of portion fracture, of a bone by the projectile making a furrow in its passage across its surface, grooving it. 2. Removal by splintering off longitudinal frag- ments from the external cylindrical part of a hone. 3. Removal of part of the bone by completely punching out a portion, thus leaving a hole through the entire substance of the hone. 4. Partial fracture by driving inwards part of the external cylinder, and causing the fragment to lodge in the cancellated structure, with or without lodg- ment of the projectile.” Of complete fractures, the peculiarity consists in the comminution, Complete and vertical splintering of the bone, and of the complete removal of fracture, some part of the shaft of the hone, the term “ resecting fractures ” Resecting being applied to such. One curious fact occasionally produced by the fractures, heavy conoidal hall is noticed in Circular No. VI of the Washington War Department, in which the bone is fissured and comminuted, though less than is common, at the point at which the ball impinges, while at two or three inches above or below this point a nearly trans- verse fracture of the shaft is produced. In some of the specimens the transverse fracture is not connected by fissures with the fracture pro- duced by the ball. These injuries, probably, are due to balls fired at short ranges. When conoidal bullets, writes Longmore, happen to strike on or below the trochanters of the femur, they usually leave the head and neck of the hone intact, but cause fissures, which often extend to a long distance down the shaft; when they pierce the head, all the parts below usually escape fracture; when the neck is perforated the fracture generally extends both upwards and downwards. The same rule holds good with regard to the upper extremity of the humerus, although not in so marked a manner. In all these fractures, from the comminution of the fragments and Osteo the concussion the bone has sustained, osteomyelitis and septicaemia myelitis in AMn 1, r. 1\1 a f-rt nn/iiin nn 1. n f . j