garden’s amputation. 588 Mixed form of amputation. Carden’s description. much upon this principle in 1858, making one long anterior slcin and muscular flap, with a short posterior, clearing the hone for nearly two inches before dividing it. The Mixed Form of Amputation. The mixed form of amputation, as illustrated by Carden’s operation, will now claim attention. In principle, it includes a combination of the circular and flap, already described. “ The operation consists in reflecting a rounded or semi-oval flap of skin and fat from the front of the joint (knee), dividing everything else straight down to the bone, and sawing the bone slightly above the plane of the muscles, thus forming a flat-faced stump with a bonnet of integument to fall over it. The operation is simple. The operator, standing on the right side of the limb, seizes it between his left fore- fiuger and thumb at the spot selected for the base of the flap, and enters the point of the knife close to his finger, bringing it round through skin and fat below the patella to the spot pressed by his thumb, then turning the edge downwards at a right angle with the line of the limb, he passes it through to the spot where it first entered, cutting outwards through everything behind the bone. The flap is then reflected, and the remainder of the soft parts divided straight down to the bone ; the muscles are then slightly cleared upwards, and the saw is applied. Or the limb being held as before, the hand and knife may be brought round under the limb, as in the circular operation, and the blade entered near the thumb and drawn round to the opposite side, when the ham may be cut across by turning the edge of the knife upwards, and the operation completed as before. In amputating through the condyles the patella is drawn down by flexing the knee to a right angle before dividing the soft parts in front of the bone; or, if that he in- convenient, the patella may he reflected downwards.” (‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ April, 1864.) Fig. 615. Carden’s amputation, witli Ions posterior flap. I s principle. This operation of Mr. Carden’s is very valuable, not only as applicable to the knee-joint to which it was originally applied, but on