580 AMPUTATION. Flap should | be broad. And long. Section of bone. Periosteal flaps. nmv generally admitted that the long anterior flap forms the best stump I he sktn flap should be broad and cut square, with the angles rounded oil, but not pointed. The muscles should then be divided down to the bone with a clean cut of the knife made from heel to point, and re- flected with the skin flap. The anterior flap having thus been made, the point of the knife ought then to be passed through the wound beneath the bone, and the limb so transfixed as to include all the tissues that remained undivided. The knife should then be made to run downwards parallel to the bone, far enough to make a flap of the required length, and then turned backwards, the downward cut being made sharply (Pig. 610). Fig. 610. Amputation of the thigh by flap operation. The surgeon during this stage of the operation should support with his left hand the under surface of the posterior flap. When the ante- rior flap has been only made of sufficient length to cover half the face of the stump, the posterior must be cut long to allow the two to meet. When the anterior flap has been a long one, two thirds of the length required to cover the stump, the posterior flap need only be half the length of the anterior. Long flaps always yield the most satisfactory results. When the flaps have been made, they shouid be carefully held away from the bone, which is to be bared upwards for about an inch above their base where it is to be divided, and two periosteal flaps cut and pressed upwards. The soft parts ought to be carefully held away from the bone to escape injury, and for this purpose, the linen retractor is of great value. The saw must then be applied, the bow saw (Fig. 609) being probably better than the flat. It should be used from heel to end with a firm, decided, yet free movement; too much pressure upon it being likely to cause splintering of the bone. During these steps of the operation, the assistant who holds the limb must be careful neither to elevate nor to depress it, for he will cause by the former act the sur- geon’s saw to become locked, and by the latter, splintering of the lower border of the bone. The best plan for the assistant to adopt is to apply