AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 297 merits, cramps, twitches, and fibrillary tremors take place, occasionally with pain or some cutaneous anaisthesia. Cruveilhier believed that atrophy of the motor nerves was the starting-point of this disease; but this theory is not now entertained ; Lockhart Clarke says, “ in 1861 I discovered, in the spinal cord removed from a well-marked case of this disease, numerous lesions of the grey substance, consisting chiefly of areas of what I call granular and fluid disintegration; and 1 have seen the same in other cases since.” This view is taught by Trousseau, Duchenne, Meryon, Roberts, Cohn, and others. This disease is generally hereditary, more common in males than females, and is excited by excessive muscular exertion, cold, and damp, as well as by injuries or disease of the spine, syphilitic or otherwise. Treatment.—Removal of the cause is the primary object, and when Treatment, syphilis is suspected, special treatment should be employed. Tonics are always of use, and arsenic in Dr. Meryou’s hands has met with good success ; “ but of all remedies hitherto employed galvanism is undoubt- edly the most useful when applied to the affected muscleswhile Clarke states, that setous and blisters to the spine may be employed in the early stage. Degeneration of muscles with apparent hypertrophy, called Duchenne’s Muscular disease, after its first describer in 1858, is a strange affection which ^?eneratlon attacks children, but continues to affect them for many years of their hypertrophy, youth. I have placed it amongst the affections of the muscles, but the observations of Dr. L. Clarke (* Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. lvii, 1874) ‘ clearly places it amongst the neuroses. It begins with weakness of >i the lower limbs which is lasting, and passes on to a progressive en- i largement of the gastrocnemii, then of the glutei and lumbar muscles, and occasionally of all the muscles. These feel firm and elastic, and hard on contraction. After a variable period, at times years, the para- lysis gradually increases and becomes more general. “ The patient is no longer able to stand upright, the upper extremities become affected, the enlarged muscles rapidly decrease in volume, and the limbs and trunk become atrophied en masse. In this state the patient may exist for a considerable time, but ultimately dies from intercurrent disease. Many of the children affected with this singular disorder have dull intellects, and are more or less idiotic.” (Clarke.) Pathologically, great hypertrophy of the connective tissue of the muscles is to be found, the fibres themselves show finer striae and are transparent, large collections of fat-cells also exist. Neither medically nor surgically, does any treatment seem to be of benefit. Muscles at times ossify either in parts or in groups. In the College Ossification of Surgeons there is a specimen in which nearly all the muscles of the of muscles, back had become ossified, and at St. George’s Hospital, a similar pre- ' paration exists; the case being recorded by Caesar Hawkins (*Med. Gaz.,’ 1844). The disease is supposed to be inflammatory in its origin. i Some years ago, one of my colleagues at Guy’s excised a piece of bone from the body of the deltoid muscle, an inch long, the growth of seven - years. Tumours in Muscle. These are of rare occurrence, and always of a serious nature. They Tumours of are mostly of the fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous kind. In 1866, I ex- muscle. 1 cised one of two years’ growth from the fleshy portion of the external