Mode of its performance; Left index- finger tlie guide. Use of hook. Use of dilators. Sharp trocars dangerous. Use of canula. 32 SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF LARYNX AND TRACHEA. performed hurriedly, is too often made difficult and even dangerous. In very young children it is always troublesome. The surgeon may at times be called upon to be rapid in his movements, but never should be hurried. As the result of hurry many are the mistakes that might be enumerated, such as wounding of the innominate or carotid artery; the opening of the oesophagus through the trachea; the punc- turing of the spine through both these tubes, &c. The patient should be placed as in laryngotomy, while the surgeon stands on the right side. The different points in the neck must then be made out, and the existence of any large vein in the line of incision looked for, and, if present, avoided. The best position for opening the trachea is half an inch below the cricoid cartilage or below the isthmus of the thyroid gland; but this is not a point of so much importance as some surgeons would lead us to suppose. In infants it may be disre- garded. An incision about two inches long may then be made through all the soft parts covering the trachea. This may be done rapidly when needed, deliberately when possible, care being taken at the same time, by means of retractors, not to displace the parts. During this step of the operation the surgeon’s left index-finger should be his guide ; and it should be steadily kept over the trachea till the rings are felt, while it will also intimate the presence of any arteries near the tube or in the line of incision. The rings once recognised, the trachea may be opened with the knife, its edge being turned upwards, and the opening made parallel with the nail of the left index-finger, which is in the wound. When the windpipe has been opened, air, blood, and mucus will at once bubble up. The canula with its pilot should then be introduced into the trachea through the opening which the left index-finger has covered, this finger acting all through as a guide and director, and, lastly, as a plug to the wound till the canula has been introduced. The eye of the operator should be directed to the end of his left index- finger. In opening the trachea, some prefer to use the hook to draw it forward, and in cases in which much bleediug exists, or the trachea is very deep, it may be employed. I have, however, rarely used it, having more confidence in the use of the left index finger as a guide throughout. Some employ also a dilator to keep the wound open till the tube is introduced, while others prefer to open the trachea with a sharp trocar. The former practice is unnecessary, and the latter dan- gerous ; as a sharp trocar may perforate the trachea altogether and enter the oesophagus, an accident I have known to occur, or if it slip by the side of the windpipe the large vessels will be endangered. With respect to the canula, Fuller’s bi-valve has hitherto met with general approval, and Durham’s “ lobster-tail ” canula (Fig. 315) has Fig. 315. Durham’s canula and pilot.