DISEASES OF THE BONES. 506 Acute inflammation attacking cranial, carpal, and tarsal bones, &c. When attacking articular end of bones. Treatment of acute inflammation of bones. formed pus mixed with blood will be effused; though in feeble subjects it may be only a blood-stained serum containing lymph. In some of the worst cases of this disease, I have seen this effusion very copious. When, as a consequence of this affection, necrosis ensues and is perios- teal in its origin, the outside shell of bone may alone die (Fig. 570) ; but when endosteal the periosteum may escape, thougli the greater part, if not the whole shaft of the bone may become necrosed (Fig. 571). Endostitis being particularly prone to he accompanied by blood- poisoning is, therefore, a far more serious disease than periostitis, whether as a primary affection or consequent upon the latter. Acute ostitis, periostitis, or endostitis may attack the cranial, car- pal, and tarsal bones, the shafts, articular ends of bones or epiphyses; and according to its seat or extent, it may terminate in reco- very or in the complete death of either the centre or shell of bone. The best instance of death of the bone from periosteal inflammation is seen in the ungual phalanx of the finger, the bone dying as a whole some five or six weeks after the first onset of the inflammation, without any attempt at its re-formation. Such cases are generally, but wrongly, looked upon as whitlows. Of the tarsal bones, it is most common in the os calcis, large sequestra being often met with in this bone; perios- teal necrosis is, however, comparatively rare in the calcis, except as a result of injury to its tuberosity. When this disease attacks the articular ends of the bones, acute joint mischief is the general result, and when it follows the division of bone either by amputation, re-section, or after compound fracture, gunshot, or otherwise, it is a common cause of death, and too frequently is the precursor of septicaemia. Sir Joseph Fayrer, who has drawn attention to this fact, in his ‘ Annals of Med. Science/ 1865, looks upon the prominent fungous mass of granulations that is often seen covering the end of an amputated bone as indicative of the affec- tion, and believes that the facility with which the surgeon passes a probe well into the medullary cavity through these granulations, estab- lishes the diagnosis. He gives the general symptoms as pain in the part, cederna and swelling extending down the limb, general fever, with quick pulse and increased temperature, and more especially the reces- sion of the soft parts, including the periosteum, from the bone, which is then left denuded at the bottom of the wound. Jules Roux, of Toulon, first drew attention to this affection, and gave it the name osteo-myelite. It is, however, essentially an endostitis, only of traumatic origin. Treatment.—In all cases of acute inflammation of bone or perios- teum, in which of necessity there must be effusion beneath the dense fibrous periosteal layer, there is no treatment equal to that of a free incision down to the bone; and if the disease is not arrested or modified by this practice, immense relief to pain is rapidly afforded. There is good reason to believe, too, that by such treatment the dis- ease is often limited and even arrested as well as the death of the bone averted; for bone, like other tissue, is very prone to die when subjected to the compressing influence of a confined effusion. When the upper part of the shaft, or the articular end of a bone is the seat of disease, this practice is very important. Before making an incision, there is no need for the surgeon to wait for the formation