DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 353 when the latter is abducted, or from a crushing weight received when in a stooping posture. It can he recognised by the following signs, viz. the flexed position of the thigh, the knee when the patient stands projecting in front of but above the other ; the rotation inwards of the Characters, limb, the great toe resting on the instep of the opposite foot; the projection of the great trochanter and its approximation to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; the elevation of the fold of the buttock ; the immobility of the limb, and the pain pro- duced by any attempt to abduct or to extend it; and the marked shortening of the limb from an inch and a half to two and a half inches (Fig. 456). In thin subjects, the head of the bone may be felt lying upon the dorsum ilii, and in all there will be an unnatural fulness of this part. Slight flexion and adduction will usually be borne, while patients may support the weight of the body on the injured limb, or even walk upon it. Fig. 457. Fig. 467a. Fig. 4574. Dislocation into the sciatic notch. From Bigelow. Fig. 457a shows position when the limbs are ex- tended, the shortening being slight. From paper by Dr Fig. 4574 shows the limbs raised to a right angle with the recumbent trunk, the shortening being very striking. W. Dawson, of Ohio. Dislocation backwards towards the ischiatic notch Dislocaiion forms about a seventh of all cases and may be re- into t,ie garded as a variety of the one just described; indeed, Erichsen describes isc.hVftic the two forms together as the ilio-sciatic. It is characterised by the n°tCh' same though less marked symptoms. There is less shortening, but if the patient be placed upon his back and the thigh be flexed upon the trunk at a right angle, then the knee of the dislocated limb will sink below tliat of the other side from one to two inches (Figs. 457« 457J) the trochanter is drawn up and rotated forwards, hut not to the same extent; and the head of the bone cannot be felt. To the eye, the limb Character assumes much the same position as in the last form, but there bein^ less shortening the toes rest on the ball of the great toe of the opposite limb instead of on the instep vFtg. 457). Bigelow believes that this form of dislocation is due to the protrusion of the head of the bone below the VOL. II. 23