EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. 485 bones are quite firmly united, till the patient can raise the limb from the bed by its own muscles, without any movement being perceptible between the tibia and femur. It is necessary to make quite sure of this.” Dr. Humphry adds “ that excision of the knee is not an operation of much dangerbut it must be remembered that he has little or no faith in the cure by natural processes. He believes such a cure in the bulk of cases to be hardly worth the attempt, and advises that excision should be employed early so as to bring about by operation that condition which we would gladly see attained without such interference. ON SUPPURATION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. When the ankle-joint has undergone disorganization and is sup- purating, the benefit to be gained by a free incision into the joint is very great, a cure with a movable articulation being often obtained by these means. When this end is not secured, a recovery by anchy- losis may be looked for, it being exceptional for any more active inter- ference to be required, except when the bones are extensively involved. When necrosis of one of the bones entering into the formation of the joint is present, recovery may be looked for on the removal of the diseased bone. In the case illustrated in Fig. 561 I removed the necrosed upper half of the astragalus with an admirable result, and a good foot Fig- 661. with some amount of movement was secured. Under these circumstances, excision of the joint has been practised and with success. I have performed this operation on three occasions, and in two with a good result; in the majority of cases of disorganized ankle-joints I have obtained good results by the expectant treatment and free inci- sion. Excision may be expected to be successful when the disease is limited to the articular surfaces of the bones, and it is in such that the treatment by incisions and the expectant principle is so successful. When the disease is very extensive, it is still a question whether amputa- tion is not probably a better practice. Stokes, however, has collected fifty-one cases of excision, thirty-eight of which were successful, and in the ‘ Dublin Quart.’ for 1870,°an excellent example by Dr. Murney may be referred to. In cases of injury, of compound dislocation, and fracture- into the joint, excisiou is probably a sound operation. Mr. H. Lee has recently adopted it in two cases, and Langenbeck has practised it freely with success. Hancock (‘Lancet,’ 1867) gives 19 successful examples of the operation, quoting Heyfeldcr and Jaeger’s practice in its support. In such cases, however, it seems well to practise it as a secondary operation. With respect to the operation itself, I may quote Hancock’s as practised in 1851, and given bv Barwell with recent improvements. The foot is first laid on its inside and an incision made over the Foot after removal of necrosed astragalus from child, set. 6. Humphry's views of excision of knee. Treatment of suppuration of the ankle. Value of Iree incision. When excision may be perioriued. Statistics. Value of excision in compound dislocation and fracture.