7 NASAL POLYPUS. powder with three or four grains of dried soda, twice a day, generally proving quiet sufficient to cure the disease. When the mother is suck- ling, the child may be physicked through the mother, five or more grains of the iodide of potassium with quinine, given half an hour before suckling, three times a day, answering every purpose. Of late years, I have followed no other practice. Warty growths are sometimes met with at the orifice of the nostril Warty eausiug obstruction, and I have recorded such a case. They are cured IS' by the removal of the growths. Foreign Bodies in tho Nasal Cavity. Whenever a child suffers from any obstruction to the nasal cavity. Foreign the presence of a foreign body should always be suspected, and the 111 practitioner in such instances should never allow himself to be misled by the absence of a history of its introduction, since instances are not uncommon where some foreign body has been left in the nasal canal for many months. A child, four years of age, came under my care, who had suffered from all the miseries of an obstructed nasal passage for eight months, from the presence of a plum-stone. Many remedies had been tried but without effect, the foreign body being unsuspected. Its removal was rapidly followed by convalescence. Ulcerations of the mucous membrane from the inflammation excited by the foreign body, may tempt the surgeon to overlook the nature of the case. He should therefore remember, that such a disease as ulceration of the nose in children except at the immediate orifice, is by no means common, and that the probabilities of its being excited by a foreign body are very great. When only one nostril is affected, the diagnosis is more sure. The removal of these bodies when firmly impacted, requires some care, 0f and the administration of chloroform cannot be too highly recom- removal, mended, particularly when the child is young. A firm, hook-bent probe introduced down the floor of the nose, may be passed with facility behind the foreign body; or, a noose of wire, twisted or not, inserted along the septum and half turned, will generally, after one or two attempts, hook out the offending body. In some cases a pair of forceps will suffice. Gingerbread and other soft materials may have to be scooped out and the nose well syringed. I have never known any good result from syringing this cavity when any solid body has become impacted, except for the sake of cleanliness. Mechanical means always succeed, and are the simplest, particularly when the child is under the influence of chloroform. In older children and in adult life, obstruction to the nasal passage may be produced by many diseases; and when the presence of a foreign body is the cause, a true history of the case will generally be given, and thus the surgeon is more likely to arrive at a just conclusion as to tlqe character of the disease. Polypus Nasi. This is a common affection, and may be found in one or both nostrils Polypus nasi, of the old or young. It may he of a simple gelatinous, fibro-cellular, or fibrous structure, or of a malignant nature. The gelatiniform and Gelatinous the fibro-cellular are by far the more common forms, and are not dif- °rm' ficult to recognise; and, as a rule, spring from the middle turbinated bone and from its posterior portion, though they may grow from other parts. I have only removed one from the septum. They are