Recovery wiili anchylosis. Where surgical interference is neceesary. Immobility all important. 466 ON THE TREATMENT OP HIP-JOINT DISEASE. Fig. 551. Head of femur altered by disease— removed by excision. Prep. ISIS33 tins complication, a natural recovery cannot take place till the source of irritation has been discharged by natural processes, or, removed by art. When, therefore, suppuration occurs in a hip-joint, though recovery may follow with partial movement, there is but one result a surgeon can reasonably look for and strive to secure, and tbis is anchylosis; and if by the history of the case and the clinical symptoms he can make out that the disease began in the synovial mem- brane, aud that tbe suppuration was tlie result of pathological changes in that tissue alone, the hope of secur- ing this result is very good; for the disease in the joint, under these cir- cumstances, however extreme it may be, is probably only superficial, and does not involve the bones to any extent, so that a good recovery with a stiff joint may fairly be anticipated. If, however, the history of the case and the clinical symptoms indicate disease of the bones, the probabilities of tbe same result taking place will rest upon the amount of the disease, and if the disease in tbe bone be superficial, a natural cure by anchy- losis may be looked for; since dead bone, if not too large, and even tbe epiphysis, may be discharged externally, and a good recovery follow. When, however, the disease in the bone is extensive (Fig. 551), or a sequestrum is so placed in tbe centre of the bone as to keep up irritation and interfere with repair, as is shown in Fig. 533, the surgeon’s active interference will be imperatively demanded, and it may be added, that it is never practised with better results. Under all circumstances, however, the first point in treatment is, to secure the complete immobility of the limb, which can be ensured by splints; ex- tension should likewise be kept up by means of weights, or elastic forces. In one case a long outside splint may be enough, while in another the weight is sufficient. In very chronic cases an immovable casing of leather, gutta percha, felt, wire, perforated zinc, or other appliance, such as the fancy or in- genuity of the surgeon suggests, is the best; abso- lute immobility of the joint, prevention of inter- articular pressure, tonic treatment, liberal regimen, good air, and time, being essential conditions for a successful issue. Fig. 552 represents a good appa- ratus to ensure immobility when the patient is in bed, though tbe double splint figured 550 is better; for with it abduction and adduction of the affected limb are prevented, tbe pelvis isfixed at a right angle to the spinal column, and tbe external malleolus of the affected side is kept in a line with the hip, elastic extension being maintained through an accumulator over a pulley inserted in the cross foot-piece. Mr. C. De Morgan’s long Fig. 552. Immovable casing for hip disease.