INFLAMMATION OF THE BONES. 511 place, external evidence will appear in the form of increased swelling and tenderness, while redness of the skin, oedema of the tissues cover- ing in the node, and fluctuation will be present. In endostitis, ter- minating in abscess, there will he a great aggravation of local pain with constitutional disturbance, and often rigors; and, when oedema of the soft parts over the bone and external evidence of inflammation appear, the abscess is making its way externally through the periosteum {vide Abscess in Bone). When periostitis causes necrosis, it is only of the shell of hone beneath the inflamed node (peripheral necrosis); the dead bone under these circumstances is exposed, and if covered it is by soft parts alone, and not by new bone (Fig. 569). When endostitis causes necrosis, it is usually of a greater or less mass occupying the centre of the hone (central necrosis), although sometimes the whole shaft or articular extremity of the bone dies. The dead hone or sequestrum is always more or less completely surrounded by new hone—a new periosteal formation (Fig. 571). When this new casing is incomplete, it is a fair proof that the periosteum has been involved (Fig. 573). In necrosis of a long bone the result of periostitis and endostitis by extension, the hope of a new bone being formed is forlorn, as the peri- osteum—the chief bone-forming membrane—has been destroyed; while in the necrosis of endostitis, there is every hope of a complete restora- tion of the bone through its periosteal covering taking place, on the removal of the dead portion or sequestrum. In the necrosis of the skull which is always periosteal, no new bone is formed, as the periosteum is destroyed. When following an injury to the skull it is preceded by “ the puffy tumour of Pott.” In syphilis it follows a suppurating node. In a rare, if not unique preparation (Guy’s Museum) of necrosis after amputation, taken from a patient of my owrn, the end of the divided femur died, and, at a later period, the periosteal sheath of new bone that formed around it also died, one sequestrum being found within the other on their withdrawal from the stump. Tbeathent.—In chronic periostitis when suppuration does not take place, fomentations, with the elevation of the limb, sedatives to allay pain, and the internal use of the iodide or bromide of potassium, with or without tonics, according to the special requirements of the patient, are the most efficient meaus. In still more chronic cases, the use of a blister, or the repeated application of the compound tincture of iodine, is of value. If rheumatism seem to influence the morbid action, colchicum has a beneficial tendency. When nocturnal pain is great, besides the internal administration of opium or other sedatives, the external application of belladonna certainly gives relief. When pain is severe and unrelieved by such treatment, a subcutaneous section of the periosteum with a tenotomy knife is advisable. When suppura- tion threatens, the warmth of a poultice or hot fomentation with or without the application of leeches may sometimes arrest it; a blister at times also seems to check its progress. When pus has formed it is wise as a rule to let it out, but the surgeon should be in no hurry to do this unless the pain is great and the abscess has a disposition to spread, as pus may be re-absorbed, and opening a periosteal abscess renders hone exfoliation more probable. Chronic ostitis is an affection most troublesome to treat with As regards necrosis Sequestrum within sequestrum. Treatment where no suppuration. Where suppuration. Treatment of chronic ostitis.