MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 289 AFFECTIONS OF THE THE SURGERY OF THE MUSCULAR AND OSSEOUS SYSTEMS. CHAPTER XXVIII. AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. Contusions. Contusions of muscles, as of other parts, may occur, and when severe Contusions. : may be followed, not only by want of power, but by absolute wast- !ing. Thus, in 1863, I saw a man, set. 44, who, five months before, received a severe contusion of the left deltoid muscle from a fall upon a the shoulder, and, as a consequence, the muscle had completely atro- ; phied, although there was no loss of sensation over the muscle, and in all other respects, the limb was normal. When wasting takes place, the muscle should be stimulated by gal- i vanism before degeneration has proceeded too far. When due to the want of nerve force, there is little hope of any good result being ; obtained under any treatment. Subcutaneous rupture of muscle to a slight degree, is far from being Subcuta- i uncommon, particularly of the deltoid, hut its complete rupture is very neous • rare. In most cases of strains, some rupture of a muscle takes place, ruPlure- which often shows itself by the effusion of blood into the part. At times, a muscle is torn across by over-action, as in tetanus, the | rectus abdominis being that most frequently affected, but the psoas i has been said by Mr. Earle to be so injured. Sedillot reports, that out '• of twenty-eight cases of ruptured muscle, thirteen occurred at its point li of juncture with the tendon. He says also, that rupture occurs only in t some involuntary action of the muscle, or, when it is taken unawares, t In 1859, I attended a man, a3t. 21, who ruptured the left rectus abdo- Examples, ii minis above the umbilicus, when jumping with some bricks in his hand. ’ He was collapsed after the accident, and when I saw him the next day, ti the two ends of the muscle were so far asunder as to allow the fingers i to be placed between them. In 1863 I also attended a man, rnt. 65, who, S when lifting a cask with his body bent, felt an acute pain in the pos- | terior part of one thigh, “ as if he had been struck with a potato; ” he fell forward, and was unable to walk. When I saw him two days after > ' the accident, the semi-membranosus muscle had clearly been divided at i i$s origin from the tuber iscliii; the body of the muscle could be felt VOL. II. 19