ABSCESS IN BONE. 507 of pus, as to do this is generally to wait too long, for the object of the Importance incision being to relieve tension, it should be carried out as soon as ten- pf tree sion clearly exists. In a case of acute disease of the tibia with severe lnclslon' local pain and constitutional disturbance, I opened the periosteum on -Example, the fourth day before any external evidences of inflammation showed themselves, except turgid veins and bone enlargement. The incision gave vent only to blood-stained serum, but it was followed by imme- diate relief to all local and constitutional disturbance, and a rapid recovery took place. In this case, all evidence pointed to endosteal rather than periosteal inflammation, and yet the hone was saved. If the incision does not save the hone, it relieves symptoms, and what is more, it may limit the disease by preventing the pus from burrowing beneath the periosteum covering the shaft of the bone, into the neigh- bouring joint. This liability to joint complication is, indeed, one of the strongest arguments in favour of the practice. The limb at the General same time should be elevated, and hot fomentations applied; pain treatment, should be relieved by opium, morphia, chloral, or any other sedative, and the general powers kept up by abundance of nutritious food, such as milk; while stimulants should be cautiously administered. Billroth believes that one of the most efficient remedies is painting the affected limb with strong tincture of iodine till vesications form, fresh iodine being applied as the vesicles dry up. When the inflammation ends in necrosis, it requires to be treated When ending according to the mode to be referred to in a later page. in necrosis. Occasionally as an effect of acute inflammation of the periosteum, much blood is effused between the membrane and the bone. I believe this result to be mechanical and due to the rapid separation of the periosteum, and it is always met with in acute cases. Abscess in Bone. Abscess in bone is the result of a local inflammation, and may or Abscess in may not be associated with the death of a small piece of bone. In bone, some cases it is acute, but more generally chronic. To Sir B. Brodie’s paper published in 1846, the profession is indebted for the best account of the chronic affection. Bone is liable to an acute as well as chronic abscess. In the acute some necrosis is generally associated with it; but in the chronic, such an association is rare. Not long ago, I treated a boy, mt. 17, who, after intense pain in the Example of head of his tibia for three days, had local swelling and severe constitu- acute tional disturbance, that had been regarded as due to rheuma- abscess of tism. At the end of a month when I saw him, I made a free incision )one' down to the bone to relieve pain, and give vent to any pus that might have found its way externally. A week later pus appeared evi- I dently from the bone, for a probe could be passed through the wound ■ into a cavity. Two weeks later or six weeks from the commencement of the symptoms, I enlarged my opeuing, and through the aperture I in the head of the bone from which the pus had flowed, I re- moved three pieces of hone, together making one the size of a , nut, which rested in a cavity lined with velvety granulations such as are so characteristic of an abscess. A complete recovery ensued. In another boy, mt. 16, in which severe local and constitutional symp- L , I toms had arisen early, I removed a similar piece of bone from a like in endof' cavity in the end of the radius, and with a similar good result. In both radius.