147 CICATRICIAL STRICTURE. vanic or other cautery, and, in exceptional cases, a plastic operation may be called for. The urinary fistula; associated with loss of tissue, whether in the Fistula with penis, scrotum, or perinamm, require the greatest amount of ingenuity loss of tissue, in the surgeon, as, besides the constriction of the normal channel some plastic operation is often necessary. On Cicatricial or Traumatic Stricture. The difference in the cause, the difficulties in the treatment, and Traumatic the permanency in the nature of a so-called traumatic stricture, have stricture, led me to separate the cases thus denominated from that larger class which we have been just considering, the result of local inflammations, and from my notes of forty-three consecutive examples of this kind, in i all of which a distinct history could be obtained of some definite History and accident affecting the perinteum, the blow or fall was immediately fol- causes, lowed by haemorrhage from the urethra, with or without other symptoms, and, at a later date, by difficulty in micturition. As a rule, these accidents take place in boyhood or in young adult life, though no age is free from the dangers of such an injury, and the kick of a man or horse on the perinaeum, a fall upon a pointed instru- ment, or across a bar, beam, or rail; an injury from a saddle when riding, a blow from a rope, and sloughing of the perinaeum after a violent contusion, are the principal causes to which the stricture has been assigned in the cases before me. In one and all there was clear evidence at the time of the injury that the urethra was more or less involved, as hsematuria in almost every case immediately followed, while difficulty in micturition appeared subsequently at variable intervals. In some few cases, several years had passed away before the attention of the patient was called to the smallness of his stream of urine, when some sudden attack of retention was the first symptom which attracted notice; but in the majority of cases, the difficulty of micturition appeared rapidly after the receipt of the primary injury, and went on slowly but surely to increase. The pathology of these cases is not difficult to understand. The ure- Pathology, thra, by the injury, is either partially or wholly ruptured, the wound being transverse; union takes place, and subsequently contraction of the cicatricial tissue, with a narrowing of the urethra and the formation of a traumatic stricture follow. It is this pathological fact which enables us to explain the obstinacy of the symptoms and the difficulty in the treatment. Complications.—Traumatic stricture is as liable as any other organic Complica- stricture to be followed by like complications, since these complications tions- are the result of the obstruction to the urethra, and it is of little con- sequence in what way that obstruction may primarily have been caused. Among my forty-three examples of traumatic stricture, twenty-seven were admitted simply on account of their contracted stream and difficulty in micturition; in eight, retention of urine was the immediate cause; in three, extravasation of urine; and in five urinary fistula complicated the cases. Treatment.—There are no cases of complicated or non-complicated Treat organic stricture more obstinate in their treatment than the so-called traumatic, and the nature of the obstruction being cicatricial is quite sufficient to account for this fact, since it is well known that all