328 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. On wounds of the joints. Symptoms of a wounded joint. Prognosis guarded. Treatment. Sutures. Splint. Value of cold. Sealing a wound. When inflammation supervenes. When inflammation becomes chronic. Wli en suppuration ot joint. than a fracture is in the main true, and, when the sprain is neglected, the case is always more tedious than that of a broken bone. Wounds of Joints. These are always serious accidents, yet as a whole, if treated with discretion and at an early period of their existence, they are fairly successful in their issue. Lacerated, incised, and punctured wounds are met with, and the symptoms that follow any one of these accidents are by no means commensurate with the extent of the local injury, for a slight or punctured wound is often followed by severe and destruc- tive local changes, when an extensive one heals without giving rise to any mischief. A joint is known to be wounded when its contents escape, as synovia has very definite characters, its oily, glutinous nature rendering its flow very manifest. In fat subjects wounds over joints give exit to oily fluid, simulating “joint oil;” such fluid, however, is not sticky when rubbed between the fingers as is synovia. Yet joints are some- times wounded without any evident escape of their contents, and doubtful cases are clinically to be treated as cases of wound. In every case of wounded joint however trivial, and in all doubtful cases of wounded joints, the prognosis must be very guarded and the treatment cautious. Treatment.—The wound should be well cleansed with warm water, and its edges accurately adapted with sutures when necessary. Probing must be avoided and the joint should be kept in absolute repose, the application of a splint being desirable. The best local application is ice or cold-water irrigation; nothing checking pain or subduing in- flammation and effusion better than the constant flow of cold water over the part. The cold, however, to be of value must be persistently applied, as any intermission of its use is almost sure to be followed by increase of pain and effusion. To seal hermetically a wound with a piece of lint soaked in the compound tincture of benzoin, and at the same time apply an ice bag is excellent practice. Should an interval have passed between the receipt of the accident and the application of the cold, and much joint inflammation exist with constitutional symptoms, the application of leeches to the joint, and subsequently of cold, is beneficial. In exceptional examples, where cold is not tolerated, warm fomentations must be substituted. The advocates of the “ spray' system” speaks highly of the plan of applying carbolic acid dissolved in oil to the wounded joint, and lint saturated with the same over the wound. Opium is always of use, the patient being kept fairly under its influence by one grain two or three times a day. Mercury is useless. In very sthenic cases, antimony may be given, and colchicum where gout is suspected. When all acute symptoms have subsided and chronic effusion remains, the application of a blister or blisters expedites the absorption of the effused fluid, and the benefit of pressure by the adjustment of well- applied strapping is very great. In feeble patients, tonics are required. Should suppuration appear, active treatment is called for, such as a free incision into the joint, or other means which will be considered under the head of suppurating joints. Extensive wounds of large joints complicated with other injuries had better be treated by amputation or excision.