LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 492 Amputation in joint disease, when not to be resorted to. The principle of “ the least sacrifice of parts.” Site of amputation in disease of knee. Site of amputation in disease of ankle. On loose cartilages in joints. Origin and growth. AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE ought never to be resorted to until all hope of a cure by natural pro- cesses has been given up or failed; until incision into or the removal of necrosed bone from the joint has been deemed unsuitable, excision of the joint inexpedient or inapplicable, or the progressive nature of the disease and its sapping powers reveal the fact that if the disease be not removed the life of the patient is likely to be sacrificed. In ampu- tating for joint disease, as for injuries, tumours, or other causes, the principles of “ the least sacrifice of parts” should be followed, and no more of the body, under any circumstances, ought to be taken away than the necessities of the case demands. To carry out this principle the surgeon may, in pathological amputations, fearlessly divide tissues infiltrated with organized inflammatory products, and even cut through the walls of suppurating cavities or diseased joints, more particularly to save amputating above a joint. The value of this practice I have fully illustrated (‘ Lancet,5 Jan. 23rd, 1875). Amputation for disease of the hip, shoulder, and elbow-joint is per- formed in only exceptional cases, and for the knee and ankle, it is yearly becoming less common. Yet it is a valuable operation in proper cases as well as the means of saving many lives. The mortality of amputation for chronic knee-joint diseases, at Guy’s Hospital, is only one in seven, and in young people under twenty years of age, one in twenty. In amputation for disease of the knee, where the end of the femur is sound and the articular facet alone diseased, the surgeon should sacri- fice as little of the thigh as possible, the amputation should be almost at the joint, and the femur divided through its condyles, or just above, as in Stokes’s amputation ; a larger section of bone should only be made when the necessity of the case demand it. In disease of the ankle- joint, when excision and every smaller operation such as the removal of dead bone has been put aside, Pirogoff’s operation should be em- ployed in preference to amputation, if the calcis with the integument over it be sound; or Syme’s amputation, unless the disease of the arti- cular end of the tibia is too extensive. To amputate a sound foot for disease confined to the ankle-joint is a measure which can only be justified by peculiar circumstances, and as a general practice is to be condemned. Amputation of the arm for diseased elbow is still less justifiable, unless the local disease is too extensive to allow of excision, or the powers of the patient too feeble to admit of the attempt. LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. Loose bodies, ordinarily called loose cartilages are found in joints, and are most common in the knee, yet are met with in the elbow, ankle, and other joints. They are, doubtless, generally developed in the sub-synovial cellular tissues, and as they increase in size encroach upon the cavity of the joint by pushing the synovial membrane before them, aud appear as warty or more or less pedunculated fringed growths hanging into the cavity. They may be single or multiple, and of all sizes up to that of a small walnut. When one of the masses becomes detached a “ loose cartilage ” is said to be present. John Hunter taught, and Rokitansky believed, that they are formed by the