Inflammation of bursa beneath extensors of thigh. Differential diagnosis. Bursa beneath ligamentum patellse. Bursa over tne tuberosity of the os calcis. Bursa beneath Poupart’s ligament. 304 AFFECTIONS OF BUUSA2 MUCOSiE, GANGLION', ETC, flamed, gives rise to swelling around the shoulder-joint, and pain and cre- pitation on movement, simulating shoulder-joint mischief; at times, too, this bursa communicates with the joint through the bicipital groove in which the biceps tendon plays. It may he distended with serous fluid or may contain loose bodies such as are found in other burs® or ganglia. They should be dealt with cautiously on account of the possibility of their communicating with the joint. Hence, blistering and absolute rest of the arm are the best means to employ, the burs® being opened only when obstinate, and when pouching exists in front of the deltoid tendon. Prom one of these burs® on two occasions, I have evacuated within three months, more than half a pint of bursal fluid, containing melon seed-like bodies, a recovery subsequently taking place. Such an operation should, however, be done only after grave consideration. Another extensive bursa, situated beneath the extensor muscles of the thigh, is not infrequently the seat of acute or subacute inflammation, and such cases have been mistaken for inflammation of the knee- joint. The diagnosis ought not, however, to be difficult, for in the bursal enlargement however great, the bulging of the cavity will seldom extend downwards beyond the upper border of tbe patella; and will not, as in joint disease, extend to either side of that bone or below it. Fluctuation, moreover, will only be felt above the joint and not obliquely through it. When the patient stands, the difference between the distension of the bursal and that of the synovial sac will be also at once manifested. With this enlargement,there maybe some stiffness of the joint, but there will be always mobility. This bursa at times becomes the seat of suppuration, when the necessity of a correct diagnosis is more important on account of treatment. In all cases it is necessary to maintain rest, and the absorption of the fluid should be promoted by blisters. In obstinate cases when the bursa is very tense, the cavity may be tapped, and, when it suppurates, freely opened, but neither of these operations should be undertaken without a strong necessity, for suppurative inflammation of the bursa may extend to the joint with a fatal result. I have, however, tapped such a bursa in a woman, ®t. 35, and drawn off eight ounces of a thick, grumous- looking, semi-purulent fluid with success; in a second case, a woman, ®t. 50, I made a free incision into the bursa, and evacuated many ounces of pus and blood, such as escapes from a h®matocele; a good recovery took place. The deep bursa between the ligamentum, patella and the bone is very liable to inflame and enlarge, which gives rise to pain that is often mistaken for joint disease. The pain however, is always local over the bursa and aggravated by the patient attempting to raise the extended le°\ It is very troublesome, and when established, can only be treated successfully by means of blisters and rest with the leg on a splint. The bursa situated over the upper part of the tuberosity of the os calcis, between the bone and the tendo Achillis, is sometimes inflamed, and gives rise to a marked projection in the part; it causes pain and lameness. It is to be cured by absolute rest (the foot and leg being fixed on a splint) and the application of blisters. A. bursa also naturally exists in connection with and beneath the tendon of the psoas muscle as it passes over the arch of the pelvis ; this