277 ON OVARIOTOMY. real objections which forbid their recommendation. The chief objec- tion is derived from the fact, that the same law of gravity which acts upon the tumour and its contents, facilitating its escape from the abdominal cavity, and allowing it to tumble out when the incision is made, acts as powerfully upon the abdominal viscera, and thus the disposition which always exists for the intestines to escape through the abdominal section is greatly increased, and the danger of excess of manipulation of these parts much aggravated; the difficulties of the operation, moreover, are increased. The tumour also may fall out too rapidly, and, by causing a too sudden and unexpected strain upon the pedicle, a severe and perhaps fatal rupture of some important part may follow. This evil is no slight one, and, as an argument against the practice, is of some force. Upon the whole, the advantages said to be gained by the side posture are thus counterbalanced, and, as I think, more than counterbalanced by disadvantages. The half-sitting or semi-recumbent position affords all the advan- tages which have been claimed for the other postures to which I have alluded, without their evils; for in it the tumour can readily he re- moved from the abdominal cavity, and with care, its fluid contents can without difficulty be prevented from passing into the peritoneal cavity. There is also abundant room for every manipulative act that can be required. The administration of anaesthetics in the operation and local anaes- thesia. Among the many incidental advantages which the introduction of anaesthetics has afforded beyond that of relieving pain, few are greater than that of obviating hurry, a point of critical importance in ovariotomy; and there can be little doubt, that the success of the operation has thus been greatly influenced by their use. It is true that operations for the removal of an ovarian tumour were undertaken before the introduction of any anaesthetic, but we all know how fatal were their results, and exceptional was a recovery. Those who had an opportunity of witnessing the performance of an operation under such unfavourable circumstances can hardly wonder that so many patients succumbed to the practice, although they might be surprised that any were found to convalesce. To see a patient writhing under the agonies of an abdominal section was enough to make the hardest heart turn with horror, and to witness the surgeon’s hands within the abdomen of a struggling woman, in his endeavour to remove an adherent growth, was almost sufficient to make any professional spectator decide that such an operation was really unjustifiable. How, in such a case, was it possible for a surgeon to be quiet in all his movements, gentle in his manipulations, and thoughtful over the diffi- culties which of necessity present themselves in an ovarian operation, when the cries of the patient’s agony stimulated him to expedition, and her struggles forbade gentleness ? All surgeons who have operated upon these cases will agree, that success even under favourable circum- stances is only to be acquired by attention to these points ; that hurry in any operation is always bad and unjustifiable, while in ovariotomy it is destructive; that force is never to be employed in any case where art will answer; that in ovariotomy all blind force, and dragging is to be strongly condemned; and that in a proceeding in which steadi- Some prefer a partial turning on the side. Objections to this. Semi- recumbent position best. Anresthelics. Their value. Gentleness enlorced. Hurry and force stongly condemned.