AMPUTATION. 577 often divided from the elastic integuments stretching before the knife. Disad- By the plan of cutting the flap from without inwards, this disadvantage vantages, is, however, neutralised, while an extra advantage is gained, for the Cutting flaps surgeon can often cut a longer skin than muscular flap, which in large trom^vithcmt limbs is a matter of importance. In some amputations, as of single hones, the operation may be per- formed by cutting the anterior flap from without inwards, and the posterior by transfixing. In the arm and thigh, when I select the flap amputation, this method is that which I usually adopt. In cutting the flap by transfixion, particularly in the thigh, the surgeon should always support it with his left hand, and, when a sufficient flap has been made, cut sharply outwards (Fig. 610). Sir W. Fergusson says, with respect to the flap operation, “ if, in tranfixing, the flaps he made purposely short, and then, retraction being made, the knife be carried round the exposed tissues which cover the hone, a cone will be formed resembling that in the ordinary circular operation, and thus by a combination, a compromise of the two methods (the circular and the flap), a covering to the end of the bone, in other words a stump, will be left superior, in my estimation, to any other,” “ though,” he adds, “ that cutting from without inwards is in many instances followed by the best results.” (Lect. on Prog, of Surg., 1867.) Besides these recognised forms of amputation, many others are per- Utilising skin formed, the surgeon having too often “ to cut the flap according to forfl“l,s- the tissues,” particularly in cases of injury. He has to utilise what skin there is left uninjured in order to prevent the necessity of ampu- tating higher up; it may he that one external or internal flap can be made, one anterior or posterior—in fact, any form or combination of flaps the surgeon may be called upon to make to carry out the object he has in hand, viz. the removal of the part that must be removed and no more, with the least sacrifice of parts. Indeed, as already stated, under rare circumstances, an amputation may he best performed without flaps, or with poor ones, it being a safer, and, I believe, a sounder practice to take off a part that must be removed to save life, immediately above the seat of injury, even with had, poor, or no flaps, than for the sake of making flaps that may slough, to amputate higher up, possibly with the sacrifice of a joint, and by so doing to incur an unnecessary danger to the life we are operating to save, Petit’s fun- damental rule being far from true, that “ as little of the flesh should be cut away as possible, hut the more the bone is removed the better.” (‘ Traite des Malad. Chir.,' tom. iii, p. 250.) As a variety of the antero-posterior flaps the surgeon may at times, by transfixion, make the posterior one first, and then taking between bis fingers and thumb all the soft parts not included in the posterior flap, complete the operation either by passing the end of the knife beneath these tissues and cutting outwards, or by cutting from without inwards, as in the former case. This plan is most expeditious, aud was one generally adopted by the late Mr. Morgan, of Guy’s. In some cases, two lateral flaps may be made by either transfixion or cutting from without inwards. VOL. II. 37