ANAESTHETICS. 565 use of anaesthetics is open to objection, on account of the damage which the eye may sustain from muscular straining or vomiting. If em- ployed, profound insensibility should he induced. Recent experience tends rather to prove, that anaesthetics may be used without fear in most eye operations. In operations for hernia, and in the application of the taxis, anaes- thetics act most beneficially. For most operations about the anus and perinaeum, profound anaesthesia is positively demanded. In the condition of shock or of great depression as after haemor- jn shock. rhage, the careful administration of anaesthetics diminishes the risk of an operation. „ In all cases other than those specially referred to, it is sufficient to state, so far as a mere surgical operation is concerned, that anaesthetics may invariably be administered. The continuous vomiting occasionally induced by and following upon, the inhalation of anaesthetics, may be injurious by consequent exhaus- tion, as well as by mechanically disturbing the repair of a wound. With this reservation, they do not appear to interfere with the recovery of patients from surgical operations. Statistics,—The results of 2586 capital operations performed before, Statistics, and of 1847 performed since, the introduction of anaesthetics, which I collected from all authentic available sources show' that the rate of mortality has not been increased, even though much graver operations have been done under the influence of anaesthetics. The risk attending Risk, the inhalation of chloroform is very small, being about 1 in 3000 administrations. This is enough to forbid its use in trivial cases, but not enough to do so in cases of capital operation, or where for purposes of diagnosis it is required. In children it is very safe. The best common instrument for the administration of chloroform is Inhaler, that employed at Guy’s, which 1 introduced in 1864, having had it made after a pattern suggested by Dr. Parker, late of the Loudon Hospital. It is not complicated by any valves, but is merely a mouth and nose-piece lined with lint, with openings to admit air freely (Fig. 606). Within Fig. 606. Fig. 607. Chloroform inhaler. Inhaler with bottles and Perforated inhaler as strap complete. applied. Rendle’s inhaler as improved by Morris. the last few years, Skinner’s inhaler, composed of a framework of wire, covered with a layer of flannel, fastened to the frame by a gusset and tape, and a handle, has found much favour, and is very useful.