TAPPING THE BLADDER. ] 57 catheters, it stands unrivalled. By its adoption all forcible cathe- terism with its dangers is avoided. Perineal section and its diffi- culties as a remedy for retention, are done away with, and the operation for puncturing the bladder above the pubes may nearly be forgotten. Puncturing the bladder through the rectum embodies in itself all the advantages of these means without any of their evils; and on practical grounds commends itself for our adoption. I would add, therefore, as a final conclusion :—“ That in all cases of Conclusion, retention of urine from stricture in which relief cannot be given by means of rational aud not forcible catheterism, and in which the use of the warm bath and opium have failed, the operation of puncturing the bladder through the rectum should be performed.” On Puncture of the Bladder per Rectum. In all cases of retention of urine in which relief cannot be afforded O'1 ll'e ^ f by the introduction of a catheter, and the nature of the obstruction is puncture ot not such as to require the operation of urethrotomy, puncturing the the bladder bladder through the rectum is the right operation to perform, as by it Per rectum- relief can be given with rapidity, certainty, and safety. In former times, the bladder used to be punctured with a full-sized trocar and canula from the perinamm, but such a clumsy operation is not now recognised among surgical proceedings, though with the aspirator, the same proceeding has been often undertaken. At the present day, some surgeons prefer tapping the bladder above the pubes, but in safety and efficiency the operation is not to be compared with that which I now recommend, for, in the words of its modern advocate, Mr. Cock, “The operation is safe, easy of accomplishment, and-without Cock’s danger as to its consequences. In cases of retention which resist remarks, ordinary treatment it is greatly to be preferred to the long-continued attempts at catheterism, which, whether successful or not, must be in- finitely more injurious to the urinary organs than the simple and almost painless operation of tapping.” “ I consider,” writes Cock, “ that the benefit of the operation con- sists, not merely in the immediate relief given to the patient, but also in the opportunity which it affords, by the retention of the canula in the bladder through an indefinite period, of diverting the flow of urine from its ordinary channel, and thus giving quiet, freedom from pain, and the natural means of restoration to the maimed, irritable, or dis- eased urethra. I conceive also that the bladder might be tapped with advantage in cases of obstinate stricture, in which retention of urine does not actually exist.” These views, published by Mr. Cock in 1852, ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ and ‘ Guy’s Reports,’ 1866, I cordially endorse. The practice of Guy’s Hos- pital for the last twenty years, to my knowledge, has only confirmed their accuracy, and, the more I see of the operation, the more I like it. The objections raised against it are theoretical and not practical, for Objections abscesses between tbe bladder aud rectum, persistent fistulous openings, are injury to the seminal vesicles, and wounds of the peritoneum, do not tlle01'etic,d. commonly occur. They are said to have done so in exceptional instances but such must, indeed, be very rare. Mr. Cock, in his large experience’ its great has known but one bad result to follow the operation, and that was success, atrophy of the testicle, from which he infers that the vas deferens was wounded. At Guy’s, from the carelessness of a house-surgeon, a fatal