533 MOLLITIES OSSIUM. “The first symptom of the disease,” writes Durham, “ is pain, more Symptoms, or less peculiar in character, always deep-seated, and greatly increased by pressure or motion; sometimes coming on suddenly and with extreme severity, sometimes commencing vaguely and insidiously, and gradually becoming almost insupportable; sometimes wandering, at other times fixed for a period to some particular spot, and subsequently spreading to other parts; sometimes intermitting, at other times unceasing. Ill the majority of cases the pain appears to have been first felt in the lower half of the spine, the pelvis, and loins; but in some it commenced in the feet, knees, or other parts of the lower extremities; the pains are often looked upon as rheumatic. Associated with the pain there has always been noticed, on the part of the patient, at a very early period of the malady', a feeling of general lassitude and disinclination to do anything. This feeling has increased more or less uniformly until it has ended in actual inability to make any exertion whatever, and with the early local changes are associated an uncertain, feeble gait, and con- tinual fear of falling.” Symptoms that are more or less directly associated with the softening and absorption of the bones are the next to appear, such as diminution of stature, deformity of the spine or pelvis, some curvature or frac- ture of one or other of the long bones, and, as time progresses, these indications multiply,flexibility, conjoined with fragility, being the dis- tinguishing character of the bones in this disease. The urine almost always contains a considerable excess of lime Urine, salts. The disease is rarely attended with any general or local symptoms of inflammation. The changes observed in the bones are Bone carefully described by Durham. Increased vascularity appears to be an Ganges, early symptom, the large grooves seen in the cranial bones being very striking; next, the bony matter is seen to be more opaque and less uniform than natural; sometimes it is irregularly granular, “ as if some disunion must have taken place between the component elements of the bony matter.” The lamination of the hones next becomes less distinct; the laminm Fig. 698. Fig 598a. Section of normal occipital bone. Section affected with mollifies. Durham, ‘Guy’s Rep.,’18G4. of the Haversian system appear more or less fused together; the bone-