ON OVARIAN DISEASE AND OVARIOTOMY. 263 Pregnancy and ovarian disease. Treatment of ovarian disease. Ovariotomy a recognised operation. acid, there is a strong reason to suspect that the tumour is a broad ligament or parovarian cyst, and, under such circumstances, there is good reason to hope, that either a cure may follow the operation of paracentesis, or if not a cure, the lapse of a long interval of time before the repetition of the operation is called for. This fact was pointed out by the late Ur. F. Bird (‘Med. Times,’ July 19, 1851). When the fluid drawn off is clearly albuminous, tenacious, dark, or light coloured; when it is even watery and like that contained in the cysts last described, and is found microscopically to contain the com- pound cells or epithelial elements already referred to, the tumour is probably ovarian and ought to be removed. When the fluid drawn off is highly albuminous and coagulates spontaneously, the suspicion of the tumour being a fibro-cystic uterine one ought to be raised, though there is little doubt that the true diagnosis of a fibro-cystic uterine tumour from a polycystic ovarian can only be made out, in the majority of cases, by an exploratory inci- sion, when the absence of the pearly appearance of the ovarian and the presence of the pinkish, vascular, and fleshy aspect of the fibro-cystic, is enough to excite the surgeon’s suspicion of the uterine nature of the growth. When pregnancy and well-developed ovarian disease co-exists, tapping ought to be performed, though in cases where the operation is inad- missible, from the nature of the tumour, ovariotomy is a justifiable proceeding, Spencer Wells having performed the operation in nine cases during pregnancy, and in eight with success; it should, however, be undertaken before the fourth month (Obstet. Soc. MS., 1877). When the tumour is small it should be left alone. The Treatment of Ovarian Disease.—In the treatment of ovarian disease medicine is of little value and has no direct influence in arrest- ing its progress. It does good only by improving the general condition of the subject. The operation of tapping in unilocular cysts is, how- ever, often of great value, and at times essential. Injection of the cyst is only applicable to a small class of cases. Ovariotomy, in a general way, is the only radical cure. John Hunter clearly realised the truth of this in 1787, when he said, “ In the early stage of ovarian dropsy I would almost advise that they should be removed entirely, if the complaint can clearly be ascertained, as they otherwise will certainly kill the patient.” He adds, however, that “ electricity has been serviceable lately in diminishing the progress of the formation of the fluid in a patient I am acquainted with. How far it will be of further service I cannot say” (MS. lectures). At the present day the operation of ovariotomy is an accepted one by the profession, and is as recognised and justifiable as any other grave operation. Surgeons and physicians differ only as to the class of cases in which it is applicable, and the period at which it should be performed. British surgeons may probably claim the credit of having established this operation in spite of early difficulties and blind opposition, and the names of Lizars of Edinburgh, MacDowell of Kentucky, Jeaffreson of Framlingham, Walne, Fred. Bird, Lane, Morgan, Aston Key, Cooper, and Caesar Hawkins, of London, must ever be remembered as amongst its earliest practical promoters. Charles Clay of Manchester, however, the first great ovariotomist in this country. Brown and particularly Spencer Wells of London, Keith of Edinburgh, Koeberle of Strasburg,