ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. 539 CHAPTER XXXIV. ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. “ Gunshot Injuries,” writes Professor Longmore, “ are tlie injuries which result from the action of missiles set in motion by a force which is derived from the ignition of explosive compounds. They compre- hend every kind and degree of hurt which is capable of being pro- duced on the human frame by the mechanical impulse of obtuse bodies.” He informs us, moreover, that in every 100 casualties there Statistics of are 20 killed to 80 wounded, and that of the wounded one third of wounded, the cases are severe and two-thirds slight. The wounds vary much in their character and nature—one caused Their by a rifle ball differing from that by a cannon ball or shell; and the character. direct effect of a missile upon a part differs from that produced indirectly by the scattering of stones or any other hard substance caused by cannon shot or shell. Gunshot contusions of tissues, although apparently trivial are, as in civil life, often associated with severe deep-seated injuries ; and superficial wounds, apparently unimportant, are often attended with or followed by serious accidents. Gunshot wounds are always of the contused class, those of civil life, however severe, are rarely, if ever, attended with that complete attrition and displacement, and even total removal of substance, which are so constantly characteristic of wounds produced by gunshots, particu- larly in those of recent times. Gunshot wounds, moreover, are also prone to be complicated by the introduction into the wound of some foreign body, such as some portion of the soldier’s dress pressed into the wound or some part of the wadding, shot, or shell itself. It should also be known that “ substances of very low degrees of den- sity, such as plugs of tallow, light wood, cork, wads of paper and others, will serve to inflict penetrating wounds in the softer structures of the body, having all the characters of wounds inflicted by denser pro- jectiles, if sufficient velocity be impressed upon them. But the neces- sary force to accomplish this result can only be executed within very limited distances.” (Longmore.) “ The external distinguishing signs of penetrating gunshot wounds are generally manifest enough. The general dimensions of the open- ing made by the shot sufficiently show whether it has been made by a small arm bullet, a large grape shot, or a still larger gunshot; its shape, whether it has been made by a round projectile, by a fragment of a shell, or an irregular splinter of some secondary missile, while the aspect and condition of the lips of the wound and of the structures immediately surrounding it, sufficiently mark it as not being one in- flicted by a stabbing or cutting instrument.” Gunshot wounds differ considerably in appearance, these dif- ferences depending upon the forms of the missiles causing the injury, and their speed, ns well as the part of the body struck, and the position of the patient relative to the projectile at the time of injury.