306 AFFECTIONS OF BUKSA? MUCOSA?, GANGLION, ETC. When pulsating. When com- municating with joint. Treatment. Bursa in popliteal space. contents do not communicate with a joint, while those that have synovia do. Diagnosis.—In a general way there ought not to he any difficulty in making these cases out, more particularly when the different positions in which they may appear are known, since their circumscribed and defined outline, their fluctuating feel and mobility when the leg is flexed, and their hardness and elasticity when fully stretched fairly characterise them. When, however, the swelling pulsates and a bruit is heard over the tumour, some difficulty in diagnosis may be felt, although I can hardly understand how such a case could be mistaken for an aneurism, as on a careful examination the bursal pulsatile swelling could not be emptied and refilled by pres- sure upon the afferent artery, as would an aneurism; neither would the pulsation be so distinct nor the bruit so clear; for both the pulsa- tion and the limb would have been simply communicated. The posi- tion of the bruit, moreover, would have a greater influence upon the symptoms in a case of bursa than in that of aneurism; for whereas in the latter, by slightly flexing the leg upon the thigh, the aneurism would become more defined, its pulsations more marked and under control, in bursae the swelling would become more flaccid and less distinct. Extension makes the pulsation and the swelling to be more distinct in the case of bursae, and less so in that of aneurism. With respect to the diagnosis of a synovial bursa which communi- cates with the knee and a true synovial hernia, I have not much to add beyond the fact, that in the former there may be no symptoms of knee- joint disease, whereas in the latter, there will to a certainty be chronic effusion into the joint, which probably will be part of an osteo-arthritic change. When pressure upon the popliteal swelling causes it to diminish or disappear, while the joint itself enlarges and becomes fluctuant, or more so under the pressure, it is a fair inference that the joint and bursa communicate, although when these conditions do not exist, it would be wrong to infer the opposite, for the opening from a bursa is at times valvular and altered by position. Tbeatment.—As an enlargement of these burs® always follows excessive muscular action and strains, so by absolute rest of the limb as guaranteed by a splint and the application of repeated blisters, can the bulk of them be made to disappear. In obstinate examples of the first division of cases tapping may be resorted to, whereas in the second it should be undertaken only where other treatment has failed, and then with extreme care by means of the aspirator. In still more obstinate cases where the limb is rendered useless, a free incision may be made into the cysts, or they may be excised; but such desperate measures are only applicable in desperate cases. The first division of cases may always be boldly dealt with, but the second should be treated with extreme caution. Thus, in a case which was under my care some years ago, where by repeated blistering the tumour disappeared for a time only to recur, afsurgeon was induced to tap and subsequently incise the cyst, after which, acute suppuration of the part occurred, which in the end com- pelled amputation. The case of solid bursa already alluded to occurred in my own practice. I mistook it for a tumour, having punctured it with a needle without