187 HYDROCELE. from its size, there is no necessity for interference. In very old people it is as well not to interfere, unless a strong necessity exists, as sloughing of the scrotum, suppuration of the sac, and other bad results, occasionally occur in these cases from slight causes. It must be added, that the feelings of the patient as to the amount of pain and inconvenience are the best guide to interference, very slight enlarge- ment causing as much pain in some patients as a greater increase in others. If, then, some treatment he demanded, simple tapping should be performed as a primary measure, the fluid being drawn off by means of a moderate-sized trocar and canula. In doing this, some care is necessary, although the operation is really simple, as difficulties are often made by the operator, while dangers result from want of caution. On the Tapping of a Hydrocele. As a point of primary importance, the true position of the testicle On the should be defined. In the majority of cases it will be found at the pos- operation of terior part of the tumour and towards its lower part, unless the hydro- h^-clrocele. cele he very large. At times, however, as has been observed, it will be found in front from a congenital malposition,as well as in certain other cases which are difficult to explain. The true position of the gland can generally be made out by manipulation, and further by the want of translucency in the tumour at the part it occupies. Having made out to a fair certainty the position of the testis, the tumour should be taken in the left hand and grasped firmly at its neck—the surgeon taking cave at the same time to stretch the integument well over the cyst, and to render its wall tense and unyielding (Fig. 378). The trocar with well-fitting canula (having been previously well oiled) should then be taken in the right hand, and the Fig. 378. : index-finger placed about three quarters of an inch from the extre- 'i mity of the canula, while the front of the thumb rests on its flange. The object of this position of the finger is to prevent the instrument 1 going in too far with a rush, and thereby endangering the testicle; and that of the thumb to press home the canula as the trocar is being withdrawn. The tumour should be punctured at its lower part, care being taken to avoid any large vein, and the fluid allowed to run out. Having completely emptied the cyst, the punctured integument should i be firmly held and nipped up with the thumb aud finger of the left