CANCER OF THE SCROTUM. 224 the tumour raised and supported in a vertical position for half an hour, to drain it of blood as much as possible; then, the patient having been placed in a recumbent position on an ordinary table, with the nates brought near the end of it, he is to be put under the influence of chloroform, and the incisions are to be commenced. Several assistants are required to hold back the legs, raise the penis and testes, support the tumour, and rapidly secure the bleeding points. These being pro- vided, the operation may be begun. The director is to be introduced into the passage at the bottom of which lies the glans penis, and that organ exposed by laying open with either the long catlin or sharp- pointed bistoury the dense tissue covering it. If the prepuce is healthy, it is well to reflect a portion of it as a future covering to the penis. If the prepuce is involved, or even suspected of being in- volved, it should be carefully dissected away like the rest of the thickened tissue. Having exposed the penis, it is to be raised and carefully dissected out, with or without the prepuce, as the case may be. This is to be raised and held aside by an assistant, care being taken in clearing it out of the morbid tissue not to divide the sus- pensory ligament. Second step « xhe next step is to make a deep and bold incision down to the o opu.i iun. £unica vaginalis on one side. In a large tumour several incisions will be needed before the tunica vaginalis is exposed, which probably will be found much thickened and distended with fluid, forming large hydroceles. These should be laid open, and if the tunica vaginalis be much thickened it should be removed; if not so affected, and the testicle not enlarged, it need not be interfered with. The testicle is then to be dissected out, reflected and held upwards with the penis. A similar proceeding is to be carried out on the opposite side. The tumour is then to be removed by connecting transversely the three vertical incisions already made, and then, either with the scalpel or amputating knife, the remaining portion of the neck of the tumour is to be cut through. It is well before separating it to mark out on the perineal aspect by an incision the line at which the removal is to be completed. During the operation, vessels are to be commanded by the fingers of assistants, and large veins controlled by forceps. It is well that even the most minute bleeding point should be ligatured (or twisted), otherwise when reaction occurs there may be haemorrhage. The bleeding having been controlled, the testes with their elongated cords are to be applied to the surface of the wound; the penis is to be enveloped in a fold of oiled lint, and thus kept apart from the testes, which are also covered and supported in position by oiled cloths.” The largest tumour of this kind on record weighed 200 lbs. Cancer of the Scrotum. Cancer of This is a rare affection compared with what it was some years ago scrotum. wiien sweeps ascended flues, and is commonly met with in this country as a chimney stoeep’s cancer. It is, however, well known in the tar and paraffin manufactories of the Continent, the products of distil- lation of coal, according to Volkmann, being more irritating to the human skin than soot. It is in reality an epithelial cancer similar to that found in other parts of the body; at times it is very extensive, Treatment of involving the whole scrotum. Nothing but its removal can be recom- cancer scroti, mended. Small tumours may be cauterised down or destroyed by