Advantages. Amputation of the toes. 60S PIROGOFP’s AMPUTATION. The limb is longer than after Syme’s amputation and thp • not to be excelled (Fig. 638), since" a patienfean walk upon U as 3 " SvIHn niha( bfleen l,el1ormed- The incisions arc the same as in Syme s, but no heel flap is dissected up. After disirtipnioUno- a yL7blenbehVnd1heal ‘??ciently far,for tlie calcis to bfeome visible behind the astragalus, the surgeon has to saw through the os calcis m the line of the heel, and remove the foot, taking off subse quently, the ends of the tibia and fibula. ’ ” Dr. Eben Watson, after having made the heel flap, prefers before going further, to saw off as much of the os calcis as he wants to save • but there is an objection to this practice, as I have known the incision thiough the bone to be made too far forwards into the astrao-alo-cal- canean joint, and a second slice have to be removed Dr Watson also, adopts Pirrie’s practice of dividing the tibia and fibula without previous disarticulation of the foot (Figs. 637 and 638). Fig. 637. Pirogoff’s amputation. Division of malleoli. T. Smith. Fig. 638. Stump after Pirogoff’s amputa- tion. When this method is employed, the surgeon should make a more oblique section of tbe os calcis from below backwards. I regard Pirogoff’s amputation as very good and it yields an excel- lent stump (Fig. 638); it ought always to be preferred to Syme’s when the os calcis is sound. If the bone at the time of the operation be found to be bad it must be removed, the operation resolving itself into a Syme’s; but when the bone is good, it appears to be a grave error to take away wbat makes so good a point of support to the body. Hancock records fifty-eight cases of this operation as performed by British surgeons. Five only, or 9 per cent., died. Amputation of the toes may be performed in the same way as amputa- tion of the fingers already described, equal care being observed not to in- terfere with the plantar surface of tbe foot. In amputating the great or little toes the same oval flaps should be made as were recommended in amputation of the thumb and little finger (page 594). They should always be large and as much skin saved as the case will allow.