SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF FEMALE GENITALS. 22S Tunica. Local blistering. Caustic solutions to orifice of ducts. Imaginary ! impotence. think it a valuable drug given in half-grain doses of the extract twice a day with some tonic, such as iron, zinc, strychnine, or quinine. It seems to act most beneficially, and to check the disposition to mas- turbate in a marked manner. Of course, this good can only be met with when there is in the patient’s mind a strong wish to overcome a repugnant habit. To aid this, the application of a ring of blistering fluid around the penis, or painting the prepuce with iodine, is a valuable adjunct. The bowels, more particularly the rectum, under all circum- stances should be kept empty, and the nightly injection of cold water into the bowel is a useful custom. The patient should sleep upon a hard bed, and he lightly covered. He should not rest on his back, and a solid substance fastened in a handkerchief over the sacrum is a good mode of securing this end. When evidence exists that the mucous membrane of the prostatic urethra is affected near the orifices of the spermatic ducts, Lallemand’s advice of applying a solution of nitrate of siver (gr. v to gr. x to the ounce) every other day should be followed. Some surgeons use a stronger solution, and when an absolute loss of sensibility of these parts is present, galvanism has been highly spoken of. For the appli- cation of the solution, Erichsen’s syringe catheter is the best. Every means should be employed to divert the patient’s mind from the seat of his affection by encouraging mental as well as physical labour. Simple nutritious food should be allowed and cold bathing adopted. In the cases of imaginary impotence of young married men, all that the surgeon has to do is to give confidence, for the failure is probably in the miud rather than in the body of his patient. The best advice is, to recommend abstention from coitus, when Nature in her own time will have her way and assert her power. CHAPTER XXV. SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF FEMALE GENITALS. Wounds of female genitals. Laceration of vagina. Foreign bodies in vagina. Wounds of the external genitals are met with in practice, as the result of violence intentionally committed, or happening accidentally from fall- ing or sitting on pointed or cutting bodies. They are always serious on account of the bleeding that attends them, and wounds of the vagina are particularly so. However severe they are, they should be carefully cleansed, adjusted, and stitched together, for these tissues are very vascular and heal well. Severe lacerations at times take place in the attempt at coitus. Some years ago, I was called to a young married woman for severe haemorrhage from these parts following marital intercourse, the night after marriage, and found two severe lacerations of the orifice of the vagina and the hymen unruptured; the membrane had been practically driven in. Pressure arrested the bleeding. Wounds of the vagina are apt to be followedbyinconvenient cicatrices. Foreign bodies are also at times introduced into the vagina for criminai or erotic purposes. Mr. Hilton removed at Guy’s a flat bone- netting mesh, ten inches long, which had passed through the vaginal walls into the pelvis. Bottles and other foreign matters have also been introduced. Sponges are not uncommonly found in the passage, and