381 ON FRACTURES. bottom, however tightly corded, always yields, and a feather or ordinary spring bed is not to be sanctioned. The woven wire mattrass is excellent. The sheet covering the bed should he stretched and kept smooth several times daily so that no “ ruck ” takes place, bed-sores being more frequently caused by such than by pressure. In fracture of the lower extremity the head of the patient should not he raised too high, the use of one small pillow being ample. Splints made of wood, iron, felt, or perforated zinc may be employed, Splints, and the different forms will be given when the special fractures are considered. As a rule, the simpler in construction they are the better; and before adapting one to the broken limb it is well to fit it to the sound. The splints should invariably he quite clean. Pads.—All splints should he well padded and their edges carefully fads, protected. The pads should consequently he well fitted, broad, and overlapping the sides. The best materials for these are tow or fine oakum, cotton, or sheep’s wool, or, strips of thick flannel enclosed in a casing of soft iinen or lint. The pads should he first fixed to the splint by tapes, or, by what is better, some pieces of strapping. Besides wooden and iron splints, what the French called the “im- immoveable moveable apparatus ” for fractures is a very favourite one, and the bandages, material employed may he left to the fancy or convenience of the surgeon. In fractures of such single bones as the fibula or tibia where no displacement exists, their primary treatment by some immoveable apparatus is very valuable, the limb being either put up at once before swelling has appeared, or as soon as the swelling, &c., has subsided. In other cases it is inexpedient to employ it for at least ten or four- teen days, until swelling has gone and a certain amount of repair taken place. In the fracture of long bones such as the femur, it is better to postpone its application till union is complete. Some ex- cellent surgeons and among them Erichsen, employ the immoveable apparatus from the very first. The mode of its application is as Their follows :—In all cases the limb should be cleansed and carefully dried, application, the hone itself being well protected by cotton-wool or a flannel ban- dage. The bandage with the stiffening material, is then to he pre- pared, and should he put on as smoothly as possible, no more “ turns ” being employed than are absolutely necessary. Splints of gutta percha, millboard, leather, Cooking’s poroplastic, or hatter’s felt, or perforated zinc, may be employed as additional supports when complete immobility is demanded. The first five mate- rials, after having been cut to pattern, should beforehand be well softened by immersion in hot water or hot air and then moulded to the limb; the zinc should he carefully cut to fit it and well adjusted. These splints should be applied over the cotton-wool or flannel bandage, and the prepared bandage then bound round. When starch is used (Seutin’s bandage) it should he exterior, two or three coats being employed. The same may he said when the white of egg or dextrine is employed. When gum and chalh are used, the same mode ought to be followed,' the mixture consistiug of equal parts of finely powdered gum and chalk made into the consistence of thick paste by the addition of boiling water gradually stirred into it. This bandage is more solid than the starch.