570 AMPUTATION. General remarks. Its history. Circular amputation. CHAPTER XXXYI. AMPUTATION. When a limb is saved by the excision of a joint, and life prolonged by the application of a ligature to, or the torsion of a wounded or dis- eased artery, surgical science claims a triumph; and surely an equal triumph ought to be accorded to her, when, by the removal of a part that interferes with its duties, life is rendered more valuable; or by the amputation of a limb that is irreparably injured, or diseased, death is averted. To say that amputation is an opprobrium of our art is to take a narrow view of its objects, since as the first object of the surgeon is to save life, the necessary sacrifice of a limb becomes the truest “ con- servatism.” To sacrifice a limb unnecessarily is an error which the sur- gical mind would never willingly commit, although to sacrifice life in the feeble effort to save a limb is one of far greater magnitude. It is an error, however, that timid surgeons are too likely to fall into when inoculated with the narrow views of a spurious conservatism, since to leave a limb alone with the hope of saving it is a passive act of the pro- fessional mind that requires no effort; while to make up the mind to act requires courage, backed up with knowledge and a full sense of responsibility. The operation of amputation itself requires nicety and well-applied mechanical skill; but to determine upon its necessity or otherwise requires a high order of knowledge, a careful balancing of probabilities, and much decision. It is not my intention to discuss, in the present chapter, the con- ditions under which amputation may be called for, since these have been fully considered in the different chapters devoted to such injuries and diseases as may require this treatment. I propose simply to consider amputation as an operation, to point out the best modes of its per- formance under the different conditions in which it may be demanded, and to describe the various forms of operation as applicable to different parts. To supply the history of amputation would be an interesting but a too extended process. In 1 Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary ’ and ‘ Holmes’s System’ two able articles will be found upon the subject which contain all that can be desired. For the present purpose it will be enough to state that the first amputations were performed by the circular method, the soft parts being divided down to the bone by a circular sweep of the knife {vide Celsus), the haemorrhage being arrested by the red-hot iron, and the bone divided by a saw. About 1718 J. L. Petit, tbe French surgeon, who improved the tour- niquet now known by bis name, as well as our own great surgeon, Ches- elden, suggested that the skin and fat of the limb to be removed, should pe first cut through and retracted, and then the muscles and bones bivided as high as they were exposed. Still later, Louis, of Paris,