PATHOLOGY OP JOINT DISEASES. 444 Characters of granular degeneration. Changes in the hones under in- flammation, General remarks. tilage, for, under certain conditions, the cartilage presents a worm- eaten excavated appearance not unlike that which ulceration might produce. The disease is essentially a granular degeneration, first of the natural cartilage-cells embedded in the hyaline matrix, and secondly, of the hyaline matrix itself. Let a cartilage-cell undergo this granular degeneration, and the granules by accumulation and multiplication form a cavity in the hyaline matrix. Let this cavity burst on the surface of the cartilage into the joint, and an excavation is formed which can he seen by the naked eye, and a so-called ulcer is produced. Let this change take place towards the margin of the articular car- tilage, and we find an explanation of Mr. Key’s observations upon so-called ulceration of this tissue in'certain forms of inflammation of the synovial membrane of the joint. Let this change take place near the bones as a result of disease in their articular ends, and we find an explanation of the general condition of the cartilages in the bulk of joint diseases; for, when the hones entering into the formation of a joint are so affected as to interfere with the nutrition of the articular cartilages, the cartilage may either present the worm-eaten appearance all over or in part, or it may have been shed from its bony attachment, when it will be found to be lying upon the bone as a foreign body in the joint. In an early stage of disease, this granular degeneration may only be detected by a microscopical examination, although when it follows upon disease of the bone, the cartilage will always be found to peel off its articular facet with unusual facility. In synovitis also, the surface of the cartilage in contact with the inflamed membrane will be found similarly involved. Should the disease be local, as is at times seen in cases of injury to an, internal ligament such as the ligamentum teres, the change in the cartilage will he local only, but when general, the whole surface of the cartilage may he involved. In acute disease, acute degeneration follows, as is evi- denced by daily practice. On the Pathological Changes in the Bones the result of Inflammation. Inflammation of the articular extremities of a bone is a very common disease, and is probably the most common we have to deal with in con- nection with joints, for it would appear to be the cause of most, if not all of those cases of disease of the articulations which we find in children, and have been described as strumous or scrofulous disease of a joint. Some years ago, when writing on this subject, I stated that “ I cannot for one moment doubt that the majority of the cases which are described by surgeons as strumous or scrofulous disease of a joint of the articular extremities of the bones depend upon a chronic inflam- mation in the bone,” and all the experience I have gained since has tended to confirm me in this opinion. I believed then, as I believe now that the disease in its origin and progress is inflammatory, and that it is as curable as any other local affection. It is important to bear tins invariably in mind when examining or treating a case of dis- ease of a joint, particularly when it is found in a so-called strumous or cachectic subject; for if we regard the disease as a cons 1 u '°oa one, we are apt to think it ought to be treated on geneia pnncip es, and to neglect the local means by which alone a good recovery can be secured.