195 ON DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE. ON DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE. On Inflammation of tlie Testicle. Under the term Orchitis, most authors have been in the habit of on including the inflammation of two distinct portions of the testicle, and inflammation of mixing up the symptoms of the two affections to the prevention 01 testlcle- of a sound and clear understanding of the subject. In this chap- ter I shall attempt, to separate the two, and describe inflam- Division ot i mation of the epididymis as one affection, and inflammation of subJect’ the true secreting gland as another, calling the former epididymitis, and the latter orchitis. In cei’tain cases, it is true, both structures are in- i volved in the inflammatory action, and to this state I shall apply the term testitis; the three words accurately indicating the true seat of the malady, and their use, consequently, tending to facilitate its better study. All surgeons will be ready to admit the distinctness of these two ■i parts, anatomically and physiologically, viz. the epididymis and the i! gland. It is as well also to acknowledge that pathologically they : are constantly divided, and I am certain that, to the student of the •i affections of this organ, such a division tends to a more ready dis- ai crimination and appreciation of the several diseases of the testicle. t As a preliminary to the more special clinical and pathological con- i' sideration of these diseases, the following observations of Sir J. Paget, as given by Curling, upon the development of the epididymis and testis i may be read with interest and advantage. Sir J. Paget observes “ that, in the normal course of human develop- Development !i ment, the proper genital organs are in either sex developed in two of K«nital i| distinct pieces, namely, the part for the formation of the generative organSi it substance, the testicle or ovary, and the part for the conveyance of ; that substance out of the body, the seminal duct or ovi-duct. The a testicle, or ovary, as the case may be (and in their earliest periods : they cannot be distinguished) is formed on the inner concave side of : the corpus Wolffianum, and the seminal or ovi-duct, which is originally si an isolated tube closed at both extremities, passes along the outer dw border of that body from the level of the formative organ above, to ii b the cloaca or common sinus of the urinary, genital, aud digestive sys- • terns below. The perfection of development is attained only by the ■■ i; conducting tube acquiring its just connections at once with the tor- si!® mative organ, and through the medium of the cloaca with the exterior 1 of the body. The sexual character is first established when, in the , male, the formative and conducting organs become connected by the i!development of intermediate tubes which constitute the epididymis; 4 >r when, in the female, a simple aperture is formed at the upper ex- ri iremities of the conducting tube, and is placed closely adjacent to the • lormative organ. In both sexes alike the lower extremities of the 4 ionducting tubes first open into the common cloaca, and subsequently, t vhen that cavity is partitioned into bladder and rectum, or bladder, •t'agina, and rectum, they acquire in each their just connections, and ii lecome, in the male, the perfect vasa deferentia, and, in the female p 'allopian tubes and uterus.” I will remind the student that the epididymis naturally forms the