125 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER. has been already stated. In a specimen at the College of Surgeons a foreign body is the nucleus of a uric acid calculus. As soon as a foreign body is known to exist it ought to be removed. Mode of Where this can be effected through the urethra so much the better; removal in and as long as the substance is in the passage and not impacted, this male' may be done; but when this cannot be effected and the urethra is the seat of the offending body, a clean incision should be made and the foreign body removed, as incised wounds into the urethra usually heal When in well, and it is better to make them than to lacerate the urethra by uretlira. forcible internal manipulation. I had a case some years ago in which a long hair-pin had been im- pacted in the penis and perinaeum with its points forwards, one end being felt at the base of the penis embedded in the tissues beneath the skin. Under chloroform, I pressed the point through the skin and gradually withdrew the pin, which came out nearly straight. A rapid recovery followed, without a bad symptom. When the foreign body is in the bladder and cannot be crushed by When in the lithotrite or drawn out by the scoop, lithotomy must be performed, bladder, and in adults, when the foreign body is not large, possibly the median operation should be chosen. The portion of catheter illustrated below (Fig. 355) I removed from the bladder of Mr. B—, mt. 61, on August 23,1875, by means of a small lithotrite, thirteen days after it had been broken off in the bladder. I was fortunate enough to catch it at its bulbous end and to with- draw it without much difficulty, a rapid recovery following. In women under the influence of chloroform, the body may usually Mode of be readily extracted by means of dressing or other forceps, In the *u Fio. 355. End of catheter removed from male bladder with lithotrite. Fig. 356. Stiletto removed from female bladder. case in which a lady’s stiletto (Fig. 356) was in the bladder of a youno- woman I found the point of the instrument presenting forwards and upwards and fixed in the symphysis. With my left finger in the urethra 1 pressed it back, and, after some little manipulation with the right index-finger through the rectum, for the patient was a virgin, I so placed the stiletto as to fix the point against the pulp of mv left index-finger, and with a pair of forceps introduced upon my finder extracted it. The patient recovered without any inconvenience ° Most cases may indeed be treated with a pair of forceps'in the bladder and a finger in the vagina or rectum to manipulate and place t e foreign body in a good position for removal; the surgeon seizing the fore.gn body by one end. For the removal of such a thing as a him-pm, a blunt hook may possibly be serviceable.