ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 321 It is unnecessary to describe the operation for division of the plantar fascia or other tendons, as the practice in all should be conducted on principles identical with those already described. Mechanical Treatment.—However necessary these operations Mechanical . • • • j appuauces. may he in any given case, it j,.IQ 426 ought to be remembered that they are only preparatory to the mechanical treatment of stretching which is subsequently to be carried out. That they are not always necessary has already been shown, mechanical treat- ment generally being amply sufficient of itself to effect all the surgeon desires. In one case after the division of the rigid tendon or tendons, a cure may be effected by means of strapping as already illus- trated (Fig. 424); in a second, a simple inside or outside splint with strapping or bandages may he enough. In a third the simple splint figured in Fig. 425 an- swers every purpose; while in a fourth, Scarpa’s shoe is required (Fig. 426), or some of its modifi- cations. A shoe with a ball-and-socket heel-joint, which Messrs. Krohne made for me, is strongly to be recommended, and in Fig. 427 is another, suggested by my colleague Mr. Davies-Colley, which, for extreme examples of talipes, is inexpensive and stands unrivalled. Little’s modification of Scarpa’s shoe for talipes. Fig. 427. Mr. Davies-Colley’s splint for talipes equino-varus. In all, the principle embodied is the same, the separation of the divided ends of the tendon and the deposition of new material between them. The splint invariably should be applied and fixed to the foot in its deformed position, and the stretching process commenced on the third or fourth day, and be completed at the latest by the second week. In many I have brought the foot into position on the third or fourth day, and with nothing but good results. Delay in this matter, as a rule, means failui’e, for the new tissues soon assume a fibrous character, and the deposition of new material takes place only during the early days after the operation. In adults, however, the mechanical treatment may extend over many months. VOL. ii. 21