Ill LITHOTOMY. relied upon to hold it in the position in which the surgeon has placed Position ol it, and who will not draw it forwards in any degree. This point is of importance, for there is good reason to believe, that many of the mishaps connected with the operation are due to the staff having been partially withdrawn from the bladder by an assistant, who perhaps in stooping forward, tries to get a sight of the ope- rator’s movements. When the straight staff is used, it is to be held well up, with the handle slightly tilted towards the operator; and, when the curved staff is employed, some surgons like it to be well hooked up against the symphysis, but, under all circumstances, it is to be held steadily. The surgeon will probably have seen that the perinreum has been shaved, and before he operates have examined the prostate per rectum and scanned the perinmum. The operator may then proceed with the first step of the operation, viz. to lay bare the staff, to expose the groove First step of of the director that is to guide his knife into the bladder; and the operation, point at which this opening is desired is at the membranous portion behind the bulb and in front of the prostate; Blizard, Martineau, Stanley, Key, and Fergusson, all laying stress upon this important point. With this view, the perineal incision is to be made, and in Perineal lateral lithotomy this is usually situated on the left side, the line of incision, incision lying from the left of the median line of the perinaeum down- wards, backwards, and outwards, midway between the anus and the left tuber ischii. The incision is usually from three to three and a half inches long. Some surgeons commence the cut an inch in front of the anus; others fix it at one and a quarter to one and three quar- ters, but this point is not one of primary importance. The object of the incision is to make a free external opening, to enable the surgeon to reach the groove of the staff at the part indicated, and allow sub- sequently of the removal of the stone, and a point midway between the scrotum and anus is probably the best guide to follow; the length of the perineal region varying greatly in different subjects. In making this perineal incision, the left thumb of the operator should be firmly fixed above the point at which the knife is to be introduced; and it is well for the surgeon with the finger of the left hand, to hold the staff firmly at the root of the penis at the same time. The point of the knife may be well introduced into the soft parts in the line of the director, and the tissues freely divided in the cut downwards, a second or third touch of the knife being made to com- plete the section. If these be made too low the rectum is liable to be wounded. In this incision the perineal triangle and ischiorectal space are laid open, and the skin and fascia with the transverse perineal muscle and its artery divided. Fig.351.