LITHOTOMY. 107 purpose, as it would in any other hands had they sufficient practice to render its application easy; for in lithotrity more than in any Fig. 346. The lithotritc. other operation, it is most important that the surgeon should make Manual himself perfectly familiar with the instrument he employs; none ^**jer‘tyof being justified in attempting to crush a stone in the bladder of a living importance, patient until by practice he has learnt to have a perfect command over bis instrument and a thorough knowledge of its capabilities; theory being of little value to the lithotrist, and manual dexterity is only obtainable by practice. A complete description of every form of lithotrite employed, as well as a history of the operation, can be found in Sir H. Thompson’s admirable work on lithotomy and lithotrity. LITHOTOMY. In children, where lithotrity is inapplicable, and in adults, when lithotrity, for reasons already given, ought not or cannot be ap- plied, lithotomy must be employed, and lateral lithotomy is doubt- less the best, as it is the most usual operation. “ In children it is Lithotomy in difficult to mention any operation in surgery so uniformly successful as children, lithotomy is. The incomplete development, and the consequently little susceptibility of the parts involved—the small size of the vessels, and the little risk of haemorrhage—the yielding nature of the textures, rendering force unnecessary in the extraction of the stone—are cir- cumstances that combine to divest the operation of much of the danger that surrounds it when performed in the adult. From childhood to the age of puberty the dangers can hardly be said to increase. Boys of thirteen years of age suffer scarcely more from the operation than children, and for the same reason. Seeing, then, that so little risk and suffering attends lithotomy in children, it is difficult for us to find an equally safe and efficient substitute; it can scarcely, indeed, be said to be required.”—Aston Key. In the adult male, lithotomy is rarely resorted to until the surgeon Lithotomy in becomes convinced that the removal of the stone by lithotrity is inap- adults. ' piicable, or has failed ; at least, such has been the practice at Guv’s Hospital for many years, and, taking the average of cases of stone in