AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 293 Treatment. they give way from some disease which, affects their elasticity. In a. case I treated in 1858, the two tendons gave way at the interval of four months, and the arm became black and blue after the acci- dent. The tendo Achillis rarely snaps. The plantaris does occasionally, and when it does causes a peculiar dragging of the foot and eversion. In the case of a man, tet. 27, which I saw a few hours after the accident, this symptom was so marked and peculiar as to make it quite pathognomonic. The rupture was caused in taking an upward step of two and a half feet into a vessel with a load on his back. The tendon gave way with a snap when in the act of raising the posterior pait of the heel from the ground. Fio. 413 Ruptured long tendon of biceps. Drawing 37°°. I have likewise the notes of a case of rupture of the tendon of the biceps femoris which took place in a hoy, ait. 8, who, when hanging on behind a four-wheeled cab, had one of his legs entangled in the wheel. When admitted into Guy’s directly after the accident, the tendon of the biceps femoris was made out to have been ruptured at its insertion into the fibula; there was a marked depression at this point, with ecchy- mosis; the limb was flexed and fixed on an outside splint and a good recovery ensued, although there was some weakness of the muscles supplied by the external popliteal nerve, which had apparently been injured at the same time. Looking upon the ligamentum patellae as a tendon, the following example of its rupture may be recorded. In 1867 I was called upon to treat a man, set. 31, for an injury he had sustained to his right knee ten days previously, while attempting to save himself from falling backwards. The knee swelled after the accident and became acutely painful, and, when I saw him, the patella was drawn up for at least an inch, the ligament having been divided. I treated the case as for fractured patella with a posterior splint, and employed pressure to bring the patella downwards, but I was uu- able to alter its position to any extent. The man recovered, however, with a useful limb. Muscles and tendons may be cut like other parts, and then they separate directly. They should be treated like ruptured tendons or muscles by adopting such means as are necessary to bring the divided ends together and to keep them there, splints, bandages, and position being brought into requisition according to the wants of the individual Rupture of tendon of biceps femoris. Of ligamentuni patellas.