FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. 408 Examples. Urethral complication. Case. Fracture of the pelvis in a child, with separation of pubes, prolapse of rectum and uterus. the symphysis or other fracture of the brim. In many, the injury will he complicated with some laceration of the urethra. In the case of a female, set. 30, which I had under care, the bones were displaced on the right side for more than an inch, when a curious deformity resulted; the pelvic hones with the adductor muscles being curved out, leaving a hollow on the inner side of the thigh. In another, sent to me by Dr. Bennett, of Builth, in a female child, great separation of Fig. 498. the pelvic bones was pre- sent, the whole pelvic organs having been press- ed out of the outlet of the pelvis by the crushing force. The large intes- tine for about a foot, uterus, bladder, &c., were all in view, the whole perinseum having been ruptured. The drawing (Fig. 498) shows the child’s condition when I saw her fourteen months after the accident. H ow the child escaped with life was a mystery, the pe- rinfeum being gone, the bowels protruding, and the bones of the pelvis widely apart. Such a case is enough to show how great an injury the pelvis may occasionally sustain without causing death. As an example of fractured pelvis. Fig. 499 may be referred to. The greatest care is ne- Fig. 499. cessary in examin- ing the subject of a suspected frac- ture of the pelvis, yet the diagnosis can generally be made from the nature of the force employed, its direction, and the complications that exist. Urethral complication is the most common in the male, and ought to be treated as already described at page 150, Vol. II. As an illustration of the practice there recommended, in June, 1875, a boy, set. 7, was admitted under my care into Guy’s Hospital with fracture of the pubic bones and lacera- tion of the urethra, accompanied with profuse haemorrhage and retention, for which catheterism was ineffectual, and death seemed imminent. I consequently made a free incision into the perinaeum Fracture of pelvis. Prep. No. 1134, Guy's Hosp. Mus.