13 DISEASE OF THE FRONTAL SINES. Treatment.—When the presence of necrosed hone has been made Treatment, out as the cause of the disease called ozsena, it is tolerably evident that the patient will not recover until the fetid bone has been removed, or rather has exfoliated. To this end, the preservation of perfect clean- liness by means of the douche or syringe, with or without stimulating or antiseptic lotions, may be employed, and tonics administered. If syphilis, either hereditary or acquired is the apparent cause, our remedies must be modified to the general requirements of the patient. Mercurials are seldom necessary, although in children suffering from Tonics; this disease, where the history and other symptoms of congenital sy- iolliue- philis are present, I have given them, associated with tonics, with marked benefit, and, in obstinate cases in adult life, such a combina- tion may also he employed. The perchloride and green iodide have Perchloride proved the best forms in my experience, and, when combined with of mercu,7- tonics such as quinine, hark, or iron, are invaluable. I generally prescribe the perchloride with bark, and the iodide in pills at bed- time, the patient taking at the same time the syrup of the iodide of iron and the iodide of potassium in some bitter infusion, such as quassia. If mercurials are not indicated or required, the combination of the iodides of iron and potassium cannot be too highly valued. In strumous subjects, perfect local cleanliness, and perhaps stimu- lants, accompanied with tonics, as cod-liver oil, quinine, or iron alone, or in combination, generally suffice. Nasal Calculi or Rhinolithes. Such cases have been recorded though I have never seen an in- Nasal calculi, stance. They may be small or so large as to obstruct the nostril, and may be formed around foreign bodies introduced from without. Obstruction and more or less pain are said to be the chief symptoms, and occasionally a copious discharge of mucous or pus. The calculus can be detected on examination, and when found, it should he removed by douche, snare, or forceps. Cases are on record in which the con- cretion was crushed before removal. Disease of the Frontal Sinus. The frontal sinuses as part of the nose, are liable to many of its Diseases of diseases. Acute or chronic catarrhal inflammation is by no means un- ,lle frolltal common ; both giving rise to a dull heavy pain over the forehead, which smus' the inhalation of the fumes of half a grain, or more of opium thrown on a hot piece of metal often speedily relieves. Acute suppuration of these sinuses is occasionally met with, and is Suppuration attended with severe local and general symptoms. Uuder these circum- stances, the application of the trephine to the outer shell of bone may be required. Necrosis of the bones covering in the sinuses may exist, and the latter are also liable to fracture. New growths may likewise New growths, be found in this locality—cancerous, myeloid, or bony; the ivory osseous growths being more frequently found in the air-cells of the frontal bone and nasal fossae than in any other locality. From modern investio-a- tions they appear to have a periosteal origin and soon becomes loose. In Hilton’s well-known case, the growth sloughed away. In the case Ell0st0sis from which Figs. 306 and 307 were taken, the osseous mass was evi- dently dying when it was removed. It had been growing in the frontal sinus of a man, set. 24, for four years, and had gradually encroached