434 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. its treatment. When the bones are comminuted and some loose por- tion has a tendency to ride or rise out of its position, the application of Fig. 531. Nathan Smith’s anterior wire suspension splint witli Dr. Shrimpton’s modification of it below. Compound fractures of the leg. Statistics. Fractures of foot. Of the os calcis. a pad, with sufficient local pressure to keep the parts in position, may be employed. When much effusion of blood or local action takes place, ice or cold lotion may be used as an application. Constitutional symptoms can be treated as they arise. Compound fractures of the leg ought to be adjusted in the same way as the simple, care being taken to have an interruption in the splint cor- responding to the wound (Fig. 529). When the wounds are extensive, the posterior hollow' splint of MacIntyre, or any of its modifications, may be used with advantage. When the bones are comminuted, the loose pieces should be re- moved, the wound cleaned and sealed with a pad saturated with blood, the compound tincture of benzoin or carbolic acid, as already described; at a later period of the case, when inflammation and suppuration take place about the seat of fracture, a free incision should be made down to the bone and any necrosed fragment removed. This operation gives relief to pain and expedites recovery. When the injury to the soft parts is great and the large vessels or . the joint are involved, amputation may be called for. About one in every three cases of fracture of the leg is compound, the average mortality of the compound being also about one in three. Of those amputated, about 60 per cent, are fatal. When amputation is called for, a primary operation, i.e. one per- formed during the first three days, is better than a later one. Fractures of the foot, commonly the result of some crushing force, are always serious on account of the injury the soft parts have sustained in common with the bones. When not so complicated, severe fractures of the bones of the foot as well as other bones will recover by rest and the application of cold lotions, &c. Fracture of the os calcis may occur by a fall from a height. It is seldom associated with any displacement, and undergoes excellent repair