200 ORCHITIS. upwards towards the loin, having been experienced for two weeks pre- viously. The testicle, which had passed down the canal and partially through the external ring was about as big as an egg, and remark- ably tender-. The horizontal posture was ordered to be maintained, with the thigh flexed, and cold lotion or ice applied. In three days, the symptoms had somewhat abated, and at the end of the week, the swelling was much less. On July 11th, or the twenty-first day after coming under observation, the testicle had passed the external ring, although resting close to it in the scrotum. In another week, all pain had subsided; the testis was free, and the patient disappeared from observation, being quite well. Acute On August 16th, 1871,1 saw with Mr. Forman, of Stoke Newington, inflammation a boy, set. 14, with acute inflammation of the left testis, which was at uudescended tlie internal ring- Ifc was accompanied with such severe local and abdo- testis, minal pain, constipation, and vomiting, as to lead Mr. Forman to sus- simulating pect the presence of a hernia. I saw the patient with these symptoms, hernia. and an inflamed painful inguinal swelling the size of an egg, I explored it with a scalpel, and discovered the tunica vaginalis filled with pus and a small undeveloped testis. All the symptoms speedily subsided after the operation, and a good recovery ensued. Symptoms. The symptoms of acute orchitis are very marked and its diagnosis easy, for the rapid enlargement of the body of the gland, its flattened oval form, and extreme tenderness, are very characteristic. The patient will complain of its weight, and, if standing, will probably assume a bent posture. The disease will be accompanied by extreme local tenderness, and pain of a dull, aching character which passes up the loins, round the hips, and often down the thighs. The scrotum will probably manifest some symptoms of inflammation, such as swelling, redness, heat, and increased vascularity. In exceptional examples there will be some effusion of fluid into the tunica vaginalis, but this complication is not so common after acute orchitis as after epididy- mitis, for reasons which have been already given. The constitutional symptoms will be those of general irritative fever, and vary according to the susceptibility of the subject of the disease, in some cases being very severe, and in others less so. As a rule, it may also be asserted, that acute orchitis tends towards recovery and seldom terminates in suppuration, unless it be of the tubercular form, or affecting very cachectic patients. In one known example, it ended in gangrene of the part. This case was recorded by the late Mr. Harvey Ludlow in his unpublished Jacksonian prize essay. It was under the care of Mr. Stanley, who was induced to cut into the gland from the severity and obstinate character of the pain, and a black gangrenous cavity was exposed, which was seen after death to have occupied half the organ. I have the records of a case in which the patient stated that one testicle sloughed out after inflamma- tion six months previously; the man came under treatment for inflam- Glaml mation of the other. The termination by suppuration, however, occa- occasiomtlly sionally takes place, and numerous are the examples of this condition suppurates, -wliicli I possess. These cases may also at times end favourably, the abscess healing without any evil result, but too frequently the discharge of the abscess ends in what has been variously described as benign fungus of the testis, granular swelling, or hernia testis. The latter is the most correct and intelligible name, the affection being the result of