59 IRRITABLE BLADDER. puce. When the stone cannot be felt, it is not at once to be assumed that no such cause exists; for, on a subsequent examination, it may readily be discovered, the calculus having been probably covered by one of the folds of mucous membrane of a partially contracted bladder. If, however, a second examination fail to strike it, the condition of the bladder should receive attention; and if to the sound its mucous lining feels rough, and the presence of the instrument cause Rousrh more or less pain and a desire to micturate, the urine will probably be '''adder, found altered in character, and, after standing, to show a cloudy deposit of of mucus, if not of pus ; the latter deposit being very rare, however, in ur,Hne e 0 young subjects. Under these circumstances the general health of the jreatmeMt child will require attention, as it may happen that some slight aperient 0f irritable or alterative or an alkaline mixture of potash, or perhaps a tonic may bladder, be required; the object being to make the urine as unirritating as possible, and thereby to allow the vesical mucous membrane to return to its normal condition. Rest, also, as far as it is possible to be secured, should be enforced. The diet ought to be of the simplest nature, and meat given in moderation, since it will probably be found that the urine is unnaturally loaded with lithates, if not with lithic acid, and this tendency to the deposition of such ingredients would be increased by the free administration of animal food. When, however, a case of irritable bladder in a child presents itself, in which none of the con- ditions alluded to are found, and in which the penis, urethra, and and bladder, appear perfectly natural, the state of the rectum should be inquired into; the presence of worms, and more particularly of Worms as a ascarides, being quite sufficient to produce an irritable condition of the cause- urinary organs. These may be removed by a jalap purge or an enema of some bitter vegetable infusion, such as quassia; but the condition of the digestive apparatus will require attention, as influencing the presence of worms. Excluding the presence of a stone as a cause of irritable bladder in young children, this affection is not one of serious importance if its true cause can be accurately recognised; since the conditions upon which it depends are easily remediable, and the irritability of bladder rapidly disappears on their removal. Irritability of bladder in the adult.—In adult life, this symptom Irritable cannot be regarded in such a favorable light as in a child, since '>!»dtler in it is too often associated with conditions which are of a very serious tllea(lult- nature and are by no means readily removed, although in the adult, as in the child, a congenital or an acquired phimosis, with a contracted preputial orifice, or adhesions between the prepuce and the glans penis, are sufficient conditions to produce this symptom. As a symptom of stricture, the irritable bladder is not without May be a its value; and, as a rule, it indicates considerable narrowing, as well symptom as probably a ocntraction which has been so gradual in its progress atricture- as to escape notice until this irritability of bladder enforced more accurate observation, and induced the patient to seek advice. It must be regarded as a result, therefore, of a urethral stricture which can only be relieved by the removal of its cause. Doubtless it is pro- duced by some chronic inflammatory action of the vesical mucous membrane, and, as such, requires treatment, viz. the dilatation of the Btricture, absolute rest, and the administration of alteratives. As a symptom of enlarged prostate (or of atony of the bladder in