AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 299 made up of erectile tissue and highly vascular, and had been growing for eight years. He excised all the muscle that was involved, but left its tendon. A good recovery ensued, with free movement of the limb. Fig. 415. Tumours of Tendon. Besides ganglion, other tumours are found connected with tendon, Tumours of and of these, the cartilaginous and fibrous tendon, are the most common. Some are said to begin as ganglion and subsequently to consolidate. I have seen one com- posed of bone and cartilage of two years’ growth removed from the extensor tendon of the hand which was said to have such an origin. Tumours withtendonspassing through them are not rare, and on two occasions I have had to amputate the hand of a child for a cancerous tumour occupying its palm, through which all the flexor tendons passed (Fig. 415). In 1867 I removed from a hoy, ffit. 31, a congenital tumour the size of a walnut, which evidently grew from the theca of the tendon of the long extensor muscle of the thumb. The tendon passed through the tumour which surrounded it. Dr. Moxon examined the growth with myself, which was clearly composed of fat or con- densed fibro-cellular tissue. The majority of tumours connected with tendons, however, are of the nature of ganglion more or less indurated. What has been described as the rider's hone is probably at first an The rider’s inflammatory infiltration and subsequently an ossification of the tendon tone, of the pelvic origin of the adductor longus or magnus muscle. I had such a case under observation in the person of a medical friend, set. 44, Example, who while hunting in 1869, made a violent effort to grip his horse when about to make a long jump. The effort was not attended with any pain, hut was followed by much ecchymosis extending down to the knee, and loss of power in the muscles of the part. When these symp- toms had subsided, a dense induration was felt in the pubic origin of the right adductor longus muscle, which was painful on manipulation. As time passed, this induration not only lasted but became more dense, and when I first saw him about three months after the accident, it was clearly in the sheath of the adductor longus and moved with it. It grew somewhat during two years, and, when the tendon was rigid, it appeared as an outgrowth from the pubis corresponding to the origin of the adductor longus, of about two inches in length. When the muscle relaxed, it was clearly only in the tendon, aud had no bony origin. At the present time, this gentleman can take his exercise as usual. Theic is a distinct grating to be heard and felt on moving the tumour, which has not grown for the last three years. The history of the case is identical with that given by Birkett (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1868). Billroth has also described this affection. Cancerous tumour of the hand. Dorsal aspect.