163 PARAPHIMOSIS. By adopting these suggestions the student has a definite guide to aid him in the removal of the skin; whereas if the end of the fore- skin be drawn out as usually recommended, he has none. Paraphimosis is said to exist when a tight prepuce which has been Paraphi- retracted behind the glans cannot be replaced, and as a consequence a nlos*s- strangulation of the glans, and mucous lining of the prepuce with oedema takes place, and at a later period ulceration in the line of stran- gulation, and even sloughing. In children, it follows the accidental retraction of a narrow prepuce, and in adults, the mechanical retraction of the prepuce during coitus, and the neglect to reduce it. It may be associated or not with some venereal complication. Treatment.—The object of the surgeon should be to reduce the Treatment, glans behind the narrow prepuce by which it is strangulated; and, failing this by simple means, he must divide the constricting preputial orifice so as to effect this end. To carry out the first object, which can be done, as a rule, in recent cases both in children and adults before the oedema is great, chloro- form should be given and the patient placed on' his back. The surgeon should then take the penis between the index and the middle Mode of fingers of his two interlocked hands, and while thus pulling the pre- reduction, puce forwards forcibly press the glans backwards with his two thumbs, the pressure of the thumbs, and counter-pressure with traction of the interlocked fingers so displacing the fluid from the oedematous tissues as to allow of the reduction of the paraphimosis. When the oedema is very great, a few needle or lancet punctures facilitate the opera- tion. Au india-rubher band applied as an Esmarch’s bandage will sometimes answer. When the affection has been of some days’ stand- ing and ulceration exists, and, when failure has followed all attempts Fig. 371. Mode of dividing prepuce in paraphimosis. at reduction, the strictured preputial orifice must be divided; but the Division of band must not be looked for directly behind the glans, but behind the stricture, roll of cedematous prepuce that surrounds it. This is best done bv a cut, half an inch long made with a scalpel in a vertical direction over