436 COMPLICATED FRACTURES. for such pulsation generally means that a traumatic aneurism has formed, and some large artery been ruptured. In a clinical point of view, however, the question happily is not very material, as surgeons are now tolerably well agreed as to the practice to be pursued. Treatment of Treatment.—In compound fractures the injured vessel should be tied compouud or twisted, and the wound should be enlarged for this purpose when ne- rmjtnre’of *th cessai7 > an(leven where such a practice is impossible, and from the na- an artery. ture of the fracture and condition of the soft parts it is probable that the limb may be saved, the main artery should be tied higher up, as frac- tures heal well with a diminished supply of blood. Years ago, when a Cases. student, I remember a. case of Mr. Bransby Cooper, in which a com- pound fracture of the leg was complicated with a laceration of the femoral artery, and the artery was secured at the seat of injury. Kepair went on as well in the fracture as in any case I ever witnessed. Mr. Bransby Cooper has also recorded in his ‘ Sur- gical Essays’ a case of fracture of the femur where the femoral artery was ligatured for a ruptured popliteal artery, and recovery took place in six weeks. In the autumn of 1873, a youth, set. 18, came under my care with a compound fracture of the condyles of the humerus into the elbow-joint, and an injury to the brachial artery about its centre, sufficient to arrest all circulation through it. The wound into the joint was extensive, but as my dresser had sealed it well with lint soaked in the compound tincture of benzoin before I saw it, I thought it wise to leave the case to nature. The youth went on well without one bad symptom, and left the hospital with a moveable joint, I am disposed to attribute the well-doing of this case to the fact, that the brachial artery was obstructed. When, however, the condition of the limb at the seat of fracture is such as to forbid any hope of its recovery being entertained, primary amputation ought to be performed; if a doubt exists as to the pro- ability of the limb being saved, the artery should be secured in or above the wound; and amputation should be performed as a secondary operation if the attempt fail to save the limb; the chances of a suc- cessful result in primary and secondary amputation being about equal. Of simple In simple fracture, when there is great effusion of blood and no pul- fracture. sation in the swelling or vessels, the expectant treatment is the right one to adopt, the injured limb being kept at rest and elevated, and cold applied. When pulsation in the swelling is felt, and it is clear that arterial laceration has taken place, the same practice ought also primarily to be adopted, since every hospital surgeon knows that these cases often do well under such treatment. I can recall several where it was as clear as symptoms could define that with fracture of the bones of the leg severe arterial laceration existed, and yet a good recovery ensued. To cut down at the seat of injury and secure the wounded artery is what no one at the present day advocates, although John Bell laid it down as a law, that such a rule should be fol- lowed ; but to do so above the seat of injury is one that commends itself to the surgeon’s attention, when it is clear that some treatment is requisite for the wounded vessel and that the fracture and parts around are progressing towards recovery. When gangrene of the limb