220 MALPOSITION OF TESTICLES. Malposition of testis. Arrest of descent. Treatment. May be the seat of disease. scrotum tense over its surface, the thumb aud index-finger of his left hand holding its neck. A piece of elastic strapping spread on leather, half an inch or more wide, is next to be wound round the neck of the tumour once, twice, or even thrice to hold it in position, for if this point be not attended to, all the subsequent steps will be useless. (Fig. 383.) Having done this, pieces of strapping three quarters of an inch long are to be applied vertically from one side of the circular strip to the other, sufficient force being employed to compress the organ. When the testis is completely covered in and compressed, another circular piece or so should be applied to keep the whole in position, and to bind down the ends of the vertical pieces. The strapping will probably require re-application every second day as the parts soon yield, and the strapping then forms a loose bag. The student must remember that the object of the strapping is to compress the organ, aud not to cover it. Imperfect transition and malposition of the testicle is occasionally met with, the organ being either arrested in some part of its course into its scrotal pouch, or, misplaced. At times one testicle is found in the canal, or it has failed to put in an appearance at all; while at others both are found to be out of place. Not uncommonly, this arrested descent of the testicle is complicated with a congenital hernia, the vaginal pro- cess of peritoneum being still open, and in all cases of scrotal swelling in infants, the surgeon should examine the parts with care to discover whether the testicle is or is not involved in the tumour. When the testes are thus placed, they are very commonly ill developed. At times during their descent through the rings, they are nipped by the muscular structures, and become inflamed. I have recorded such instances in a former page. Nothing can be done by way of treat- ment to expedite the descent of the organ. When within the internal ring and complicated with hernia, it is well to recommend a truss; but when the testis is in the canal, such an instrument cannot be worn, an extra element of danger, under these circumstances, being added to the case. Testes so situated seem to be Fig. 384. very prone to become the seat of cancerous disease. Many such cases have been recorded. In a case under my care, of a gentleman over fifty, an encysted hydrocele was found with a small testicle situated in the centre of a congenital hernia, the cyst ap- pearing on the reduction of the hernia as a tumour the size of a small orange, below the ex- ternal ring and behind the hernia. I tapped it from behind, and drew off about two ounces of a milky fluid containing many spermatozoa, and injected it with iodine. A good result followed. This gentleman was married, and Right testicle iu the perimeum. had a family.