237 VAGINAL FISTULA. tered after the operation to give ease, and the same practice should be followed with respect to the bladder and diet as has been recommended after the operation for ruptured perinseum. To leave a catheter in the bladder after the operation for vesico-vaginal fistula often adds to the irritation ; its careful introduction at stated periods being preferable. When from circum- stances this cannot be attended to, the intro- duction of a short catheter, with an open end to allow of the urine passing as it is secreted, should be employed. Dr. Meadows allows his patients to pass their urine in the natural way after the operation, and I have dispensed with the catheter in some cases without any had result. On the sixth or seventh day, the sutures may he removed; but if good union has not taken place and they are not causing irritation, they may be left in position for a longer period. During the convalescence, the vagina should be kept well cleansed by water, or a lotion containing Condy’s fluid. In recto-vaginal fistula, the bowels should be kept locked up for ten days or a fortnight till the wound has firmly united, and then the fasces should be rendered soft by euemata of oil and gruel. When the tissues around the edges of the fistula are too thin to allow of their being pared and, indeed, under some other circumstances, they may he split; that is, the vaginal mucous membrane may be raised from its submucous bed for half or three quarters of an inch round the fistula, and the under surfaces of the raised membrane brought together and held there by a quill suture. I have adopted this method on many occasions, and been most favourably impressed with its advantages. I was led to do so some years ago in a case of vesico-vaginal fistula where there was no tissue to spare, and was pleased subsequently to see so good a surgeon as the late Mr. Collis, of Dublin, make the same suggestion. When this plan is adopted, the sutures must he re- moved on the fourth day, otherwise the pressure of the bougie may cause ulceration. At times it is best only to cut the sutures, and.leave the quills in position for a day or so longer—the amount of irritation they cause being the surgeon’s guide. Dr. Kidd and Mr. Mapother, of Dublin, have adopted however what appears to be a better practice. They Fig. 393. Use of catheter. Splitting; of the tissues.