583 ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. not solid; water or other dressing to the wound being then all that is required. Of late years I have used with advantage terebene mixed with olive oil, 1 part to 3. Prof. Humphry, of Cambridge, many years ago, was so impressed Humphry's with the evil attending the retention of serum or other fluids after treatment, amputation, that he was led to dispense with dressings altogether. He left the wound exposed, and allowed a scab to form over its surface. This practice has been followed by Dr. J. Wood, of New York, and other good surgeons since; and, although to my mind, it is not so satis- factory as pressure applied to the base of the stump, a free opening at its surface for drainage, perfect rest as enforced by use of a splint, and gentle support given to the whole by cotton wool, it is decidedly superior to the plan of covering the whole up with strapping and allowing no outlet for the escape of serum or other pent-up fluid. No one denies the evil influence of such fluids—-firstly, in causing pain by the tension of the distended parts; and secondly, by incurring the risk of their decomposition, and subsequently of septicaemia. In recent times, however, theories have sprung up which have origi- Antiseptic nated new practices, and the most important is that on which the so-called antiseptic treatment of wounds is based. Lister is its chief advocate, and under the influence of his great authority it has esta- blished a position which deserves attention. The theory upon which the practice is based is one thing, but the practice is another. At present, the germ theory is not established, although the practice based upon it has taken a hold on the professional mind in this and other countries, and has so much success to boast of, that its value, under certain conditions, cannot be disputed. How much of this success is due to the care observed by the surgeon who dresses the wound, and the close personal attention which any case so treated necessarily re- ceives, and how much it depends upon the means employed for placing a wound as much as possible under the conditions of a subcutaneous injury is not yet determined. I am disposed to think, that this latter point is the more important, and that where the conditions can be fulfilled, the practice is to be recommended. The theory on which this practice is based, which I give in Lister’s own words, is founded upon the Ljster*s labours of Pasteur, who believed he had proved “ that putrefaction description, is not occasioned by the chemical action of oxygen or any other gas, but is a species of fermentation analogous to that of sugar under the influence of the growing yeast plant, being brought about by the development of microscopical organisms, the germs of which, from their extreme minuteness, float in abundance in the air as constituents of its dust. This being once clearly understood, it is plain that putrefaction in wounds may be avoided without excluding the air by dressing them with some agent capable of destroying the vitality of the atmospheric organisms, provided that it does not act with too great violence upon the human tissues. . . Carbolic acid,” adds Lister, “ happened to be the first agent that I employed on this principle, and it still appears to be the most convenient for the purpose; it also has the advantage of being a local anaesthetic.” “ In dealing with an accidental wound it is necessary first to kill any septic organisms introduced into it from the air or from contact with foreign bodies, and this is done by washing the cut surface thoroughly with a saturated watery solution (one of the acid to twenty