69 INCONTINENCE OF UKINE. a period. When recovery is slow, an electric shock through the pelvis is often beneficial. Paralysis of the bladder _ _ Paralysis of is a far more serious affection than atony, since the want of power is Hie bladder, due to deficiency in nerve supply, which deficiency may be partial or complete. It is met with whenever the spinal cord is injured or diseased, as in brain shocks or disease, in reflected irritation from disease about the rectum, uterus, &c., and after any operation upon these parts. It may he caused also by a severe mental shock, or the general depression from a fever. Tkeatment.—The cause of the paralysis in these cases must always Treatment, have an important influence on the practice of the surgeon, but the necessity of keeping the bladder empty is essential under all circum- stances ; for this purpose a soft, full size elastic catheter had better be passed two or three times a day, the greatest gentleness being observed in the manipulation. When anything like cystitis is present it should be locally treated by washing out the bladder, &c., as already indicated. To leave a catheter in the bladder is not desirable. When professional aid is not always at hand, a nurse may at times be entrusted with a full-sized vulcanised india-rubber catheter without a stilette, and allowed to pass it; it has simply to be pushed down the penis and can do no harm. In fever cases the plan is a good one. Hysterical retention Hysterical is not rarely met with in women, and is difficult to treat. Catheterism reteutiou. is only to be resorted to when necessity compels, hysterical patients usually micturating when the pain of retention calls loudly for relief. The cold douche over the lower part of the abdomen is a good local remedy for the affection, and not too pleasant for the patient to wish for its repetition. Moral treatment is always called for in these cases, and is more needful than surgical interference. Incontinence of Urine Incontinence is met with under two very different conditions. In the one, during 01 sleep, when the will of the patient is in abeyance—the neck of the Causes, bladder ceasing to act from want of power, and giving rise to noctur- nal incontinence. In the other, the incontinence is only a result of over- distension, and is a mere overflow. The first form is common in children, the second, in adults. Incontinence, however, both in the child and adult, may bo due to bladder irritation from the presence of a stone or other foreign body, and it will then exist during the day rather than at night. It may also follow the operation of lithotomy from injury to the sphincter of the neck of the bladder. Incontinence in the child is a very troublesome, and often very Incontinence obstinate afl’ection. It is, notwithstanding, generally curable, and even in tlie clll|d- in very bad cases, as puberty approaches, the symptom disappears, though in exceptional instances, the infirmity continues in after-life. The child is generally brought to the surgeon because he “ wets his bed,” when too often the history reveals the painful fact that punish- ment has been severely tried before professional advice was sought; and it is needless to add that by such a process, no cure can be effected. In many instances, the habit is in a measure induced by a want of attention in the parents to take the child up during the long hours of the night.