245 TUMOURS OP THE BREAST. been thrown off from the acinous as waste almost as soon as it was formed, remains in the place of its origin to multiply, and, with its progeny, to infest the glandular structure of the breast either as intra or extra-acinous accumulations. Indeed, according to Dr. Creighton, it is upon deviations from the physiological track such as these that the How tumours existence of a tumour depends. _ form- Thus “ a circumscribed tumour arises at a particular part of the gland where the spurious excitation has advanced to a certain stage of evolution or unfolding; in that particular region, probably a territory defined by the blood vessels, the functional force has acted at a uniform imperfect level for a length of time, the inevitable cel- lular waste of the crude secretion has accumulated within the acini or around them, and the foundation of a tumour has been laid. In the healthy action of the organ there is a provision for the dis- posal of the very considerable amount of cellular waste material by means of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. In passing from the secreting acini and in traversing the stroma of the gland, the waste cells often acquire a spindle form; and although these cells are not always distinguishable from the connective-tissue cells of the part, there is, especially in the bitch, a class of pigmented epithelial cells in which such changes of form and position can be clearly traced. The spindle-shaped waste products are the type of the peri-acinous cell- collections in cystic or adeno-sarcoma. So far as relates to the large nuclear cells, the iwfra-acinous collec- tions of them correspond to the structure of medullary cancer, and the ej?<ra-acinous infiltrations of the same cells are a distinguishing feature of scirrhus. “ The distinguishing feature of the less malig- nant form of tumour is that the spurious functional activity comes nearer in the degree of its intensity to that of the perfect secretory force, the transformation of the epithelium is a more real transfor- mation, and the cellular waste is reduced, in part at least, to the class of fibre-like or crescentic elements that characterise the myxomatous Iand more benign issues of the tumour process.” “ The circumstance that the unknown diseased excitation most com- monly befalls the gland when it is in the state of rest is of the first importance in accounting for the formation of a tumour. Whether the disturbance be a mechanical injury, or a sympathy with excite- ment in the ovaries, or of a more general emotional nature, it comes upon the breast in its resting state. The breast can react in no other !way than by following the somewhat slow process of its normal evo- lution; without the intermediate stages of unfolding it cannot reach the perfect degree of its functions in which there would be immunity from danger. The intermediate stages are necessarily associated with the formation of crude cellular products; it is at one or other of the intermediate stages that the morbid force delays, and the correspond- ing cellular secretion of the gland thereupon assumes the character of a formative or tumour process.” “ The circumstances of the functional disturbance are never exactly the same in any two cases, consequently, the respective modifications of structure or in other words, the structure of the respective tumours are never exactly the same.” When a tumour forms in the breast within the period when the i function may still be awakened to its full and healthy vigour, that