476 EXCISION AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. General summary. When should excision not be performed. When excision should be performed. On the operation of excision of flip. Sayre’s description of the operation. ance to remember, that it is in young life we meet with the best success in the treatment of hip-joint as of other disease. With the fact, therefore, before us, that in selected cases, excision of the head of the femur is not only a justifiable hut a good operation let us briefly consider under what circumstances it should be performed, and, from the general facts, as learned from statistics, we find two great results come out clearly :—That in childhood the operation is attended with success, two patients out of three recovering, while in adult life it is attended with great danger, at least two out of three patients dying. In the former case, consequently the operation may be entertained under circumstances which in the latter would render it unjustifiable. When, then, should excision of the hip he performed ? And, first of all, when should it not ? It should certainly never he performed where suppuration or dis- organization of the joint has not taken place; because so long as this condition is kept off by surgical as well as by medical skill, a solid hope exists that a cure of the disease may be secured, though by anchylosis. It should not he performed when all evidence tends to show that the hones entering into the formation of the joint are neither extensively involved nor wholly or in part necrotic, and where the general con- dition of the patient under proper treatment i3 fairly maintained. It should not, moreover, be entertained for disorganization of the hip-joint the result of synovial disease, unless very obstinate and extensive and the general health of the patient is clearly yielding to the disease, nor should it ever he performed for acute suppurative disease. On the other hand, it should always be entertained when it is clear that extensive hone mischief or partial necrosis exists, it being tole- . . rably certain under such circumstances that a cure by natural processes is highly improbable; and when the general health of the patient is clearly being sapped by the local disease, whether that disease be in the hones or synovial membranes, or both. The operation of excision is best performed by a slightly curved incision extending from two to three inches above the trochanter along its posterior border to two to three inches below, more room being obtained when required in exceptional cases at the upper angle of the wound by a cross incision. By this incision there is ample room for the rapid exposure and enucleation of the head and neck of the bone, and subsequently for free drainage. There seems also an equal unanimity amongst those who practise excision, that the head, neck, and trochanter (major) of the bone should be removed, the latter, when left, acting as a constant irritant against the soft parts and pelvic portions of the acetabulum, thereby retarding recovery. In the re- moval of the bone, the chain saw is often of great use. When it can be effected, the shaft of the bone may be divided before the head is re- moved. The surgeon should preserve all the soft parts around the bone as much as possible, and, when the periosteum can be saved so much the better. Dr. Sayre, of New York, who has paid special atten- tion to these cases, describes his operation as follows (‘ Brit. Med. Journ./ July, 1871)“ When the disease has gone on to another stage, where sinuses have occurred and discharge pus, when a probe leads down to dead bone, there is nothing to be done but to exsect it by making a small incision above the trochanter major, midway be-