341 DISLOCATIONS OP THE HUMERUS. tion to the head of the bone. (Fig. 439, n.) Should the first attempt fail, a second may succeed, or possibly a third. In the majority of disloca- tions of the shoulder, this method will succeed. In Philadelphia, this practice is known as H. Smith’s method. In the dislocation backwards Fig. 439. a b Extension, adduction and rotation outwards. Fig. 440. or subspinous, the same method will suffice, but in that case, the head of the bone being behind the glenoid cavity, requires pushing forwards. Under such circumstances, the surgeon should stand slightly behind the patient with one hand grasping the axilla with the thumb behind, and with the other the elbow, making extension; reduction may then be effected by drawing the elbow backwards and rotating the bone. By these means, I easily reduced an interesting case of dislocation backwards (subspinous) complicated with fracture of the ribs of the same side and of the opposite clavicle. When these means fail, or when chloroform is not at hand, reduction by means of extension with Extension by the heel in the axilla should be employed, the surgeon with his unbooted heel in axilla, heel pressing upon the head of the humerus or lower border of the axilla, and with his hand grasping the forearm of the misplaced limb, and making steady extension; some slight rotatory movement often facilitates re- duction. The head of the bone usually slips into its place with a perceptible jerk, and the moment this is felt, all extension should be stopped. To facilitate extension, the clove hitch (Fig. 440) may be employed; and, instead of the heel, Mr. Skey’s well-padded iron knob. Mr. W. F. Teevan informs me that be has known the third rib to be fractured in the attempt to reduce a dislocation of the head of the humerus with the foot in the axilla. If the humerus still resists, the following plan, writes Hulke (‘Holmes’s w„n.p>« Surgery,’ vol. ii, 1871, “ which I have never known to fail in a recent P dislocation, may be tried. The patient is seated in a high chair which is placed about two feet from the post of an open doorway • the surgeon, having his back against the doorpost, places one foot upon the side of the chair, and with his knee presses into the axilla and with both hands upon the shoulder, steadies the patient’s body - a jack towel is then fixed by a clove-hitch knot to the patient’s arm just above the elbow, and by its means two or three assistants’