149 TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. economy ns excretory organs receives thus a fresh demonstration from the fatal effects of disease in their structure. To assert that renal disease is the sole cause of death from stricture would not, perhaps, be strictly true; nevertheless, it is the principal one, and if these glands are not involved, stricture and its complica- tions are not fatal. Simple uncomplicated stricture is not a fatal disease, few cases ter- minating in death. Stricture and retention of urine is a more serious combination, and stricture with extravasation of urine is still more fatal. It would thus appear that it is only when stricture has existed for a lengthened period and become complicated, that its fatal influence becomes apparent—the increase in the mortality of the eases increasing with the severity of the complication. The duration of the stricture has necessarily a serious influence in producing a fatal result; the longer the obstruction exists, the greater the probability, if not certainty, of the production of renal affection. In 26 fatal cases, the notes of which are before me, the average duration of the stricture was seventeen years; iu 5, symptoms had existed under ten years, and in 10, for upwards of twenty years. When stricture, therefore, has existed for a long period, and more particularly when it has been neglected, it may he inferred with cer- tainty that some disease of the kidneys has been produced, and that the slightest injury or accession of mischief is likely to terminate iu ; death; for I imagine that every subject of renal disease stands, as it were, continually on the edge of a precipice, and that the slightest adverse wind may send him down. The death of so many i cases after operations, whether upon the urinary organs or other parts, may be thus explained. No patient with renal disease is able to resist the slightest tax upon his powers, for his vital energy sinks irrecover- ably upon the receipt of the most trifliug injury. By way of summary of the treatment of stricture the following conclusions may be drawn :— 1. At least ninety-five out of every hundred cases of stricture are readily and safely dilated by means of catheters, and every stricture might be so treated^!' recognised before auy complications appeared. 2. Of permeable strictures, it is only in the obstinately irritable and contractile forms that any other treatment is called for; and in these, external division, by the plan recommended by Syme, is probably 1 the best operation; though rapid, dilatation, splitting, or internal division of the stricture may be justifiable under exceptional con- ditions. 3. Strictures complicated] with urinary abscess or extravasation, in which pei’ineal incisions are called for, should be treated by external division or by Syme’s operation, when a staff can be passed through the stricture; by perineal section, Wheelhouse’s or Cock’s operation, when no such guide can be employed. 4. In strictures complicated with urinary fistula, the stricture itself should be treated, its full dilatation being usually followed by the I contraction of the fistulas. When this result does not take place, it is essential that all urine be prevented passing into the fistulas, and the best means to ensure this is, by the passage of the catheter whenever i relief is required. Renal disease. Influence of duration ot stricture. Summary of treatment of stricture.