TUBERCULAR DISEASE OP THE TESTICLE. 207 part involved, and should this he the epididymis, it will he enlarged, indurated, and nodular, painless perhaps, and inactive, the body of the testis, apparently sound, resting on the concavity of the affected por- tion. If the body of the gland be the part affected, like symptoms will be present, although the enlargement will show itself as a uniform or nodulated expansion of the secreting structure; the epididymis, or seminal duct, being quite distinct. This inactivity of the disease, however, does not remain always. May be though it may last months, or even years—but the time will come, when lnactlve- the tubercular matter, in all probability, will soften down, and thus May soften excite some increased action in the parts around. It may be that this down, increased action in the part will first draw the patient’s attention to his affection, when the history of some previous thickening of the organ will for the first time be obtained. When inflammatory symptoms May inflame are once developed, the disease will certainly make rapid progress, and and disintegration of this nnorganisable tubercular matter accompanied suPPurate- by suppuration will speedily follow. In tubercular epididymitis—for such this disease may be named— where local suppuration will soon appeal’, with the discharge of ill-formed affecting pus and debris, as a curdy, friable, and granular material; and after epididymitis, this, sinuses are apt to form, which may go on discharging for a period, depending on the extent of the disease, and the amonnt of foreign material existing to disintegrate and soften. If the body of the testicle be the part implicated, the same Where gradual softening and suppuration will take place, but too often affecting it will be followed by the formation of the hernia testis to which testicle- allusion has been already made. It is not, moreover, in every case of this disease of the testis that disintegration of the tubercular material is to be expected, with its accompanying suppuration and abscess; for in many examples, no such result can be found, this tubercular matter undergoing a gradual change, and showing itself after death as an earthy concretion. The same changes take place in the testicle as is seen in the absorbent glands, the lungs, and other parts. Tubercular disease of the testis may occur at any age, but is May occur at more common in adult life. The best example that I have seen was in a child, aged two years, whose testicle I excised for disease of six months’ standing, which had pro- gressed very slowly and acquired a large size before suppuration occurred. Con- valescence followed the operation. (Fig. 380.) The whole organ, with the epididymis, was nearly filled with scrofulous de- posit. It is in the testicle that we have the best „ opportunity of examining ernia 0 e following tubercular the true tubercular disease sease' any age. Fig. 38Q.