498 OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. as they are called) or plates of bone around the margins of the articular facets and in the ligaments and synovial membrane. These crests often appear as ridges of bone which can readily be made out, and the plates may simulate a second patella when the knee is the joint in- volved. In the case from which Fig. 566 was taken, all these conditions were readily distinguishable; the bones and synovial capsule being enormously enlarged; the ligaments were so stretched as to allow of some lateral movements in the joint; and the characteristic rough, crackling sensation, which movement of the joint always gives, was most marked. In still more extreme or neglected cases, the end of one indurated bone will grind away in time that of its contiguous bone, the condyle of the femur having in the case from which Fig. 567 was taken ground down for at least an inch the head of the tibia. The preparation was made from the amputated limb of a man a3t. 36, the leg having been taken off at the knee-joint, because the limb was a flail and the joint threatened to become disorganized; and an excellent stump was left. In the hip- When the hip-joint is diseased, the head of the bone flattens down, the joint. neck shortens, the cup of the acetabulum becomes saucer-like, and around its margin as well as around that of the head of the femur, an irregular crust of bony outgrowths forms (Fig. 568); the cartilage likewise disap- pears, and the articular surface of the bones presents a dense eburnated Fig. 568. In the knee- joint. Additsimon- lary bouts. Clianires in the head and neck of the femur and in the acetabulum in osteo-arthritis. Preparation 113158, Guy’s Hosp. Mus. appearance. In the knee-joint, one or both of the condyles of the femur becomes elongated and expanded, the head of the tibia flattened, the patella enlarged, and osteophytes of variable forms and dimensions fringe the margins of the bones. The synovial membrane also will be thickened, and at a late stage of the affection, expanded from effusion, the ligaments in this way becoming elongated and the joint dislocatec. Adams’s “ additamentary bones” or new plates ot bone of different sizes are found within the synovial membrane, with probably some pedun- culated bodies upon its inner surface.