AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 291 a man who fell from a ship’s ladder upon a blunt-pointed iron bar, and had severe rupture of the abdominal muscles attached to the anterior half of the crest of the ilium, a large hernial protrusion existed, and I could press my fist into the opening through the muscles. In such cases some artificial support is permanently needed. Compound laceration of muscle. , When muscles are lacerated in connection with wounds of the soft parts covering them the injury is grave, and the primary danger of the case as well as the prognosis as to the future use of the part, turns upon the amount of laceration. In compound fractures, &c., this fact is well known. But, at times, muscles are torn out through skin wounds, or are rup- tured at the time of the accident, and may even hang out of the wound. When this is the case, the muscle, unless much crushed or injured, must not be cut away but replaced in position as well as possible, and to further this end, the wound in the soft parts may be enlarged. One of the worst cases of this kind I have ever seen I attended with Dr. Mason of the Barbican. It was that of a gentleman, set. 22, who, when sleep-walking, fell a height of forty feet out of a window on a glass skylight. Among other injuries he sustained a lacerated wound of his right thigh and complete division of the body of the inner hamstring muscles. When I saw him, a large mass of well-developed muscle protruded from the skin wound. I enlarged the opening in the integument and carefully replaced the muscle, keeping the limb on a splint. In five weeks he was convalescent. A year later, he had complete movement of his limb. Entire tendons are sometimes torn out of a limb, and in Guy’s Hospital Museum there is a preparation (1367), which includes the last joint of the middle finger with its tendon from the flexor profundus attached. It was torn by a thrashing machine, the accident being followed by tetanus, yet the patient recovered. In another preparation (111965) figured below (Fig. 412), there is a portion of thumb with the long flexor and extensor Compound laceration of muscle. Evulsion of muscles. Muscle to be replaced. Evulsion of tendons. Fig. 412. Short eatcnsoT Jjotlci fit - nerve * J Thumb, with tendons, &c., torn out by machinery. and short extensor tendons, together with the nerves torn out by ma- chinery. It was taken from a man, a3t. 17, who made a good recovery. Dislocation of Muscles and Tendons. There is good reason to believe that muscles, like tendons, may be Dislocation dislocated, although from the way the former are protected by fascia of tendons, and the latter by fibrous sheaths and bony grooves, such accidents are rare. When they occur, they are the result of some sudden and unexpected strain, rick, or twist. In the upper extremity, the accident may occur to the biceps tendon and those about the wrist, and in the lower, to the peronei tendons and tendon of the posterior tibialis as well as to the conjoined tendon of the extensors of the leg attached to