ON OVARIOTOMY. | On the treatment of adhesions. Varieties of adhesions. First, firm and compact union with parietes. Care in avoiding separation of peritoneum from muscles. 280 its size by breaking down its contents, and for this purpose, the surgeon must make a free opening into the cyst and introduce his hand into its interior, the orifice of the opeuing into the cyst at the same time being held well open and forward by forceps (Pig. 408) adapted for the pur- Fig. 408. N61a ton’s cyst forceps. pose. By these means, the most compound cyst may be broken down and removed. When the cyst is so adherent to the abdominal parietes as to render it difficult for the surgeon to distinguish the cyst-wall itself from the parietal layer of peritoneum, the plan adopted by Mr. Spencer Wells, of emptying the cyst and seizing its posterior or upper wall from within by forceps and inverting it, is a good one, the cyst then peeling off on good traction being made. On adhesions and their treatment. When the incision through the abdominal walls has been made, and the smooth glistening surface of the visceral peritoneal covering of the tumour recognised, the surgeon may be satisfied that the abdominal cavity has been fairly opened and the tumour exposed; and, when the ovarian cyst on each respiratory act is seen to move freely within the abdomen, there is a strong probability, if not certainty, that the tumour is free, and the complication of adhesions is not likely to be severe; for, when the tumour is fixed to the abdominal walls, this mobility of the cyst is not present; and fibrous or fibro-cystic tumours of the ovary or uterus usually have a fleshy or muscular appearance. It will be well therefore to consider how these adhesions are to be treated. They may present themselves on the completion of the abdominal incision in two forms. Firstly, as forming a complete and compact union between the peritoneal covering of the cyst and the abdominal peritoneum; secondly, as loose and fibrous connective bands; and thirdly, as visceral adhesions. When a firm and compact union exists between the cyst and the abdominal peritoneal membrane, the surgeon will have lost his chief guide as to the depth of his abdominal section, and, under these circum- stances he may experience some difficulty in deciding whether the abdominal cavity lias been opened or not; he must consequently be careful in his procedure, for lie is not far from the possibility of per- petrating a fatal error—the separation of the parietal peritoneum from its muscular connections; but this error, however, can be avoided by merely extending the abdominal incision upwards, until the distinct line of separation between the cyst-wall and the abdominal peritoneal membrane is clearly seen. The next step of the operation consists in the breaking down of adhesions, which may be done by the careful