SPRAINS OP JOINTS. in simple cases of sprain, by such treatment alone will convalescence Rest, be established. When swelling and effusion into the joint ensue in the course of the second or third day after the accident, the evidence of internal injury is more marked, for such effusion means inflamma- tion or synovitis, which is to be treated by absolute rest, possibly by the application of a splint, the local use of ice, or cold lotion, leeches or warm fomentations, according to the comfort afforded by cold or warmth. If swelling of the articulation follows immediately upon the Where much injury, effusion of blood into the joint is indicated with or without *ft1"^°nice fracture, but always with severe local mischief. Such cases should be treated by the employment of a splint to ensure immobility of the ar- ticulation, elevation of the injured joint with the patient reclining, and the local application of a bag of pounded ice, or irrigation with cold water; these means being maintained until the hsem or rh age has ceased, all risks of inflammation of the joint gone, and repair appears to be going on satisfactorily. As soon as the primary effects of the sprain and all signs of inflammation have passed, the application of pressure to the joint by means of a bandage or strapping with passive move- ment is very striking. When the muscles over such a joint as the shoulder are severely Where bruised by a fall, much local pain may be produced, as well as want of muscles' power in the arm exciting a fear of some bone or joint mischief; but a careful examination will show, if no roughness in the examination be used, that the joint can be passively moved without exciting pain, al- though if the patient attempts to set the muscles in action, pain is pro- duced. This point is one of clinical importance, indicating that the mis- chief is in the muscle and not in the articulation, the pain being ex- cited by muscular action and not by joint movement. In delicate children, all falls upon the hip followed by pain should Contusion of be treated by rest and extreme care; for a large number of cases of hip in hip disease originate from some such slight cause, and there is good children, reason to believe that the majority of liip-joint affections might be prevented by proper attention after slight injury. When the immediate effects of the sprain have passed away, the Affer- local use of some stimulating liniment and moderate friction of the treatment of part expedites the cure, and, at the same time, gives comfort to the contusions- patient. A local warm bath at intervals likewise relieves the stiffness of the joint. Whenever movement excites more than a momentary pain, rest should be observed; and if the pain continue, some chronic inflammatory change ought to be suspected and treated. When weak- ness of the joint aloue remains, a good bandage or strapping around the part to give support is of great benefit. Where much laceration of liga- ment has taken place, it is at times necessary for the joint to have some Artificial permanent artificial support, either in the form of a splint, felt, supports, leather casing, or bandage, for no parts are repaired with less per- manent power than ligaments. In the wrist, when much swelling exists, a sprain may be mistaken Avoid for a fracture or a fracture for a sprain, as fractures about the end of mistaking for the radius are generally impacted, and not consequently attended by fracture' crepitus. Much care is necessary in the diagnosis of such cases. Many sprains of the ankle are also really cases of fracture of the fibula above the malleolus. The popular notion that a severe sprain is worse