Dislocation of astragalus inwards. Dislocation of astragalus outwards. Treatment of dislocation of astragalus. When astragalus cannot he reduced. DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. inwards in which Reports/ for 1862, no I Fig. 470. Compound dislocation of the astragalus. complication existed, and in ‘Gu\’s recorded an example of dislocation of the bones outwards in a man set. 51, in which both mal- leoli were entire; the astra- galus had been fractured and turned completely out of its bed, and was found hanging to the wound below the external malleolus. I removed the broken frag- ments at once, and brought the foot into a good position, a complete recovery with a stiff joint ensued. At the present time, sixteen years after the accident, the man walks about without the aid of a stick, and with no other incon- venience than that occasioned by a stiff joint, which be maintains is a very slight matter. Some rotation of the bone often co-exists. Fig. 471 illustrates a case of dislocation of the bone outwards, complicated with fracture of the fibula. Treatment.—In simple dislocation of the astragalus when the bone can be replaced by manipulation, nothing more is needed; but such a result caunot always be secured. When it cannot, even under chloroform, the tendo Achillis should be divided. Iu 1862 I was called to see a man, set. 28, who had fallen on his feet from a height of four yards, whose right astragalus was shot forward completely out of its socket, and nearly burst through the skin. In this case chloroform had been given, and every kind of manipulation and extension employed by com- petent men to reduce the bone, without effect. I divided the tendo Achillis, extended the foot fully, and applied gentle pressure to the pro- jecting astragalus, when the bone slipped back readily into its place. Some crepitus was felt, however, and, I believe a horizontal fracture of the astragalus co-existed, the upper surface and head of the bone having been displaced forwards. The foot was fixed on side splints, and a good recovery ensued with a moveable joint. When the displaced boue cannot be restored to its normal position directly after the acci- dent, it is now fairly a settled question that it should not be removed till after the tissues have sloughed. Sir A. Cooper strongly advo- cated this practice, and Broca has since supported him, showing by an analysis of cases, that in 36 examples of irreducible simple luxation in which the bone was removed at once, one fourth were fatal; while in 43 in which the bone was left alone, only 2 deaths took place, Fig. 471. Dislocation of the astra- galus outwards, and fracture of the fibula. Cast 161.