572 AMPUTATION. The chief objections to the operation consist in the tendency there is for a long skin flap to slough, and the necessity of dividing the hone at a higher level than would be required in the circular operation, when a long flap cannot otherwise be made. In muscular subjects this last objection is serious, and fatal to the operation in many thigh amputations ; for it is a truth that cannot be too forcibly recognised, that in the thigh, the danger to life is increased with every inch of bone removed. The surgeon who invariably practises Teale’s ampu- tation will often sacrifice a large portion of a limb that might other- wise be saved, and have to amputate at a higher point than the necessities of the case demand, thereby often adding to the danger of the case as well as performing a needless and unjustifiable operation. The surgeon who removes such portions of the body as require removal and no more, by such a flap as allows the cicatrix to be placed behind the stump and out of harm’s way, performs a good and scientific operation. Under all circumstances, any form of amputation must be looked upon with favour that takes away only what needs removal, and provides sufficient integument to cover the end of the stump; that ensures the cicatrix being out of harm’s way, and that no nerves are likely to be involved in the cicatrix or fixed to the end of the amputated bone. Any form of amputation must be regarded with disfavour that requires the removal of more of the body than is essential to carry out the surgeon’s primary aim, and increases the risk of the operation, how- Sacrifice flaps ever g00(j may he the stump secured. To provide sufficient inteffu- amputate nient to cover the stump is a wise and necessary measure, and higher than to fail in this when circumstances do not compel must be regarded as necessary. had surgery; yet in certain cases of injury, disease, or gangrene of the extremities, where it is advisable to take away the diseased or injured parts, and no sound skin is left from which to make a flap, amputation should be performed without regard to a covering for the stump, as doubtless, it is better to remove the diseased part that is hastening on the end and leave the stump to granulate, than allow the disease to have its way and to sacrifice life. At the hip- and shoulder- joints where this contingency is most likely to occur, the adoption of this practice is not rarely called for, and at other parts is equally appli- cable ; for, knowing what good stumps are often obtained when the skin and soft parts, that at the time of the operation covered in the bone, subsequently sloughed, I am convinced that in certain injuries to the arm and leg the surgeon had better amputate with a poor flap at the elbow- or knee-joints, leaving the rest to nature, than risk life by amputating higher up, i. e. through the shafts of the humerus or femur. I have on many occasions acted on this principle, and to pre- vent the necessity of amputating above a joint in order to make a good stump with a skin covering, amputated at a joint or below, utilising even injured skin or bruised tissues, and rarely have been disappointed in the result, the stump subsequently granulating well, even when the flaps themselves sloughed. In injuries to the leg this point is of great importance, since the mortality of amputation Example of the thigh for injuries is very great. As an admirable illustration of tbe value of this practice a case may be referred to (Circ. No. iii, Washington Army Depart., page 216) in which recovery ensued after all four limbs of a man mt. 26 were amputated on account Objections to the operation. Requisites lor a good operation.