AMPUTATION AT HIP-JOINT. 596 At the hip-joint. Internal flap. Interna!. i Previous ligation of artery. greater severity. They are, moreover, larger operations, more dangerous and possibly more difficult. Amputation of the thigh at the hip-joint is a formidable operation, and is only justifiable under desperate conditions, when a limb is ir- reparably crushed or diseased, and resection of the head of the femur with more or less of its shaft is out of question. When performed for accident it is almost always fatal, not ten per cent, recovering; for disease, however, it is more successful, the risk being about equal, al- though after resection of the head of the f em ur which has failed it is some- what better. The best flaps appear to be the external and internal. The patient being brought to the edge of the table, with the tuberosities of the ischium in view, Lister’s valuable abdominal tourniquet is to be adjusted (Fig. 625), but not screwed up till the patient is under chlo- roform and everything prepared. The surgeon should then make the external skin flap by means of a semicircular incision, starting from the tuberosity of the ischium downwards and outwards one hand’s breadth below the great trochanter, and then upwards and forwards to the centre of the groin (on the outer side of the femoral vessels). This flap should then be reflected upwards so as to expose the trochanter, and allow the joint to be opened, and dis- articulation to be completed; the limb being forcibly adducted by an assistant to facilitate this step. In doing this, no vessels of any importance are divided, while the most difficult part of the operation is performed. The inner flap now remains to be made, which is readily done by transfixing the thigh on the inner side, inserting the knife (twelve inches long) in the anterior wound, passing back- wards close to the inner side of the neck of the femur, and bringing it out near the tuberosity of the ischium where the ex- ternal incision was com- menced, and then cutting out through the soft parts, including the ad- ductors, &c. (Fig. 626). In doing this, all the pel- vic muscles are separated from the thigh bone at one clean sweep, and a few touches of the knife complete the am- putation. Should there be much cause to fear loss of blood the common femoral artery may be ligatured in the wound Fig. 625. Fig. 626. Amputation at liip-joint, by external and internal Hups.