STJKGICAL AFFECTIONS OF FEMALE GENITALS. 229 in a case I knew of, such a foreign body gave rise to the suspicions of cancerous disease. Adherent Labia. The lahia during childhood are apt to adhere together from some Adherent local inflammatory action, and so to close the labial orifice as to in- terfere with the act of micturition. The urine in children thus affected, often squirts in a backward or forward direction, and for this, surgical attention is sought. In these cases, the true condition of affairs will at once he recognised on separating the genitals, for the lahia will he found connected together by a membranous adhesion which passes forwards in some cases to the urethral orifice, thereby affecting the urinary stream. This membrane is readily broken down by separating the labia with the fingers or thumbs, or by means of a probe introduced behind it from above. The application of a little cold cream will complete the cure if care he taken to keep the parts clean. Vulvitis. This is a common complaint in children, and is almost always due to Vulvitis, some rectal irritation such as that caused by worms, scybala, &c., in the feeble and badly fed. It is rarely the result of a gonorrhoeal affection, as is too often suspected, and it is well to he aware of this fact, as it is not uncommon for a surgeon to be consulted about a child with vulvitis under the suspicion that the affection is the result of an impure criminal contact, when it is due to some simple non-venereal cause. It should he treated by local cleanliness and mild astringent lotions, Treatment, such as lead, alum, &c.; when worms are suspected, by the administration of a good mercurial or jalap purge, and attention to the digestive organs and general health; a mixture of rhubarb and soda for a few days, and subsequently a tonic generally effects a cure. Noma, or phagedsenic ulceration of the lahia, similar to the cancrum Phagedaum oris after the exanthemata, is met with in cachectic children, and is a of labia, disease of debility. It commences as an inflammatory swelling of the parts similar to erysipelas, passing on to gangrene and ulceration, and is always attended with great prostration. For its treatment such Treatment, tonics as can he borne should be given ; and particularly iron, quinine, or bark. Wine and abundance of good liquid nourishment should he given by the mouth, or, by the rectum when the stomach rejects it, and milk with chlorate of potash is a good drink. Locally, opium lotion with carbolic acid, nitric acid, or nitrate of silver should be used, and when the ulceration spreads, nitric acid in its concentrated form may be applied or the actual or galvanic cautery. Navi, when found involviug these parts, are to be treated like others. Hernia.—In women, the labium may be the seat of an inguinal hernia hernia, or of a varicocele. The former is known by its own symptoms, the' Varicocele, latter by its wormy feel. It may also become the seat of thrombus Thrombus or blood tumour on the receipt of an injury, which is to he made ' ' out by the history of the case, the sudden appearance of the swelling after an injury, its external aspect and fluctuating feel. Such blood swellings are to be treated at first by the local application of cold to arrest the flow of blood, and, subsequently, by lead lotions. If they tend to break up and form an abscess, a free incision into the swelling is the right treatment to adopt.