78 STONE IN THE BLADDER. Treatment calculus of prostate. Cancer of prostate. Symptoms. Treatment. Tubercle of prostate. Condition of healthy urine. stone, but no ring will be heard. A large prostatic calculus may also be felt per rectum. Treatment.—When a prostatic calculus gives rise to sufficient symptoms to indicate its presence, and by its size is likely to prove troublesome, it should be removed by a perineal section—by such an operation as median lithotomy, the incision stopping short of the bladder, when the stone does not involve it. In this way, Dr. Barker (vide Bruit’s ‘ Vade Mecum’) removed a large stone nearly five inches in diameter with success. When the stone, or stones, give rise to few symptoms of importance, they should be left alone; occasionally they pass naturally per urethram. The greatest argument against opera- tion unless absolutely essential is found in the fact that these calculi are mostly multiple, and often exist in both lobes of the prostate. Cancer of the prostate occurs but seldom, and is generally of the soft kind; indeed, as Dr. Walshe stated in 1846, “the evidence of the occurrence of true scirrhus of the prostate is defective.” The symptoms are those of enlargement, and increase rapidly in severity, the disease being attended with more frequent and profuse haemorrhage than the ordinary hypertrophy. The blood follows the straining which attends the act of micturition, and appears as pure blood; after catheterism it is often profuse. The disease may be primary, but is commonly secondary. It cannot exist for any time without giving rise to glandular enlargements in the groin or along the iliac vessels, when, as a rule, the patient’s powers rapidly yield. The treatment is only palliative, the surgeon dealing with symptoms. All instrumental interference should be of the gentlest kind, and as little as possible. Pain must be relieved by opium, and the general powers maintained by good nourishment and stimulants. Tubercle of the prostate probably, as a rule, only occurs as a part of a general tuberculosis; and until the deposit is breaking up, or by its presence is producing some suppurative action, it gives rise to no sym- ptoms by which it can be recognised. It is too often associated with renal or bladder disease, and the local prostatic mischief is lost in the more general affection. It is quite possible that some of the cases of so- called idiopathic abscess of the prostate are the result of the breaking down of this deposit, but there are no clinical data to enable the surgeon to diagnose the presence of this disease, and there are, consequently, none other than general rules of treatment to be mentioned. CHAPTER XXII. STONE IN THE BLADDER AND ITS TREATMENT. Before passing to the subject of stone in the bladder it appears desirable to consider, though briefly, that of urinary deposits, organic and inorganic; as the value of a sound knowledge of what the urine may contain, either in suspension, solution, or precipitation, is as great to the surgeon as to the physician, and as indispensable for successful practice.