ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. 317 the addition of acetic acid to be arranged in parallel linear series. The tissue becomes gradually more fibrillated, and at last fibrous—a solid bond of union subsequently forming between the divided extremi- ties of the tendon, which is tough to the touch, but to the eye presents, even for at least three years, a greyish, translucent appearance, distinguishing it at once from the glistening old tendon. This newr tissue remains during life as permanent, and has little tendency to contract subsequently. Adams’s observations rather led him to the conclusion, that the required portion of new tendon is to be obtained during a lengthened period of formation, that is, about two to three weeks, under the ordinary conditions of health; but, in paralytic cases as in others of feeble health, this period may be doubled. Adams informs us also, that the divided extremities of the old tendon take no active part in the reparative process during its earlier stages, although at the later the cut ends become rounded and their structure softened. They become enlarged and exhibit a tendency to split, and thin streaks of new material similar to that already described are seen between the fibres j tbe ends are joined by tbese means. At a later period, the bulbous enlargement gradually diminishes. When a tendon is divided a second time, there is but little separation of its ends, and this is probably due to adhesion of the new tendon to the neighbouring fibro-cellular tissue, in which fact is found an expla- nation of the unsatisfactory results of second operations. There is no reason for believing, that in the treatment of defor- mities by tenotomy, direct approximation and re-union of the divided extremities of the tendon must first be obtained, and that the required elongation is afterwards to be procured by gradual mechanical exten- sion of the new connecting medium, as we would stretch a piece of india rubber. Gradual mechanical extension, however, is required, in cases of long standing, as in those of congenital origin, to forcibly overcome ligamentous resistance, and to separate the ends of the divided tendons; as it is in those of paralytic and of non-congenital origin to prevent the too rapid separation of the extremities of the tendon. The mechanical extension should be carefully regulated according to the ac- tivity of the reparative process, as indicated by the amount of effusion into the sheath. Blood poured out into the sheath or any inflamma- tory action interferes much with the process of repair; any causes of general feebleness, coldness of the limb, too early, too late, or too for- cible extension, having a like effect. With these remarks the operation itself may be considered. Treatment.—“ The indications,” writes Little, “ are to overcome the shortening of the muscles, ligaments, fasciae, and integuments on the contracted side of the member, to direct the bones into their proper position, to educate the patient’s voluntary use of the parts, to give strength to the muscles and ligaments in the elongated side of the member, and to combat the tendency to relapse.” To fulfil the first indications, mechanical means are often sufficient • and when these fail or are inapplicable, the division of the con- tracted structures. To carry out the other, mechanical means are also of value, aided hy general measures, and more particularly by gal- vanism of the weakened muscles. In a large number of cases, however instruments are not required, much less tenotomy; since in any case' Extension of uniting; medium not required. Gradual mechanical extension. Treatment of talipes. When tenotomy is required'. When tenotomy is not required,