COMPLICATED FRACTURES. 435 when natural processes are left to themselves. In exceptional cases, the broken fragment may be drawn up by the action of the gastrocnemii muscles, and, under such circumstances, the leg must be kept flexed and the foot extended to keep the fragments in position by some outside splint. Under these circumstances, however, the foot rarely recovers completely its natural use. Fractures of the astragalus also occur from some fall or violence and of the are often compound. I had a case some years ago, in which the astragalus, upper surface of the bone with its head was split off and forced through the skin, and a second in which the bone was crushed into fragments and extruded from below the external malleolus. In the former the soft parts were so injured that amputation was performed; while in the latter, recovery took place by natural processes with a stiff hut good limb. Simple fracture may, however, occur, and I am disposed to think it is more common than is supposed, but the injury is difficult to dia- gnose, particularly when no displacement coexists. I have had occasion in two cases to remove from boys who had acute inflammation of the bone and joint, following an injury, the whole of the necrosed upper articular surface, with half the thickness of the astragalus, and in both good results followed. The piece I removed in both instances looked as if it had been fractured, and subsequently died. I have also re- cently (1878) removed from the inner aspect of the ankle of a man, the upper half of the astragalus that had been fractured six months pre- viously, and displaced so as to present its upper articular facet in- wards. The case had been reported at a sister hospital as one of fracture of the tibia and fibula. The fractured bone had subsequently inflamed and died. Compound fracture of the metatarsal and phalangeal bones should be Compound treated on ordinary principles, the immediate dressing of the wounds 'raaure with the compound tincture of benzoin to exclude all air and place the Metatarsus wound as much as possible under the condition of a subcutaneous and one being absolutely indicated. When parts irreparably injured require phalanges, to be taken away, no healthy structures ought to be sacrificed in order to perform a named operation. COMPLICATED FRACTURES. Extravasation of Blood. Fractures are very often complicated with extravasation of Hood, Extrarasa- wlien difficulties may be experienced in deciding whether the blood lion of blood comes from an artery or a vein. In compound fracture, however, the m fracturcB- difficulty of diagnosis is less than in the simple, since the florid cliarae- Arterial ter of the flowing blood, its pulsatile stream and capability of being blood, arrested by pressure on its cardiac side, indicate its arterial source. In simple fractures, the difficulty is sometimes very great, particularly when the limb is distended with blood, and there is no pulsation in the swelling. When the vessels below the seat of injury pulsate naturally, the blood has probably a venous origin, but when pulsation is not felt, there is no reason to jump to the conclusion that arterial laceration has taken place, as tho arteries may be simply pressed upon by the effused blood. When the swelling itself pulsates the diagnosis is simplified,