ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. 546 Exploration of wound. By finger. By prober. to be made out at once, and the plan of treatment laid down, soft parts being adjusted, operative interference decided upon when neces- sary, and right appliances employed. By far the best instrument to explore a wound is the finger, and for this purpose the external opening through the fascia may always be enlarged. “Probes should seldom or never be used; the finger is by far the best instrument if the wound will admit it ” (John Hunter, MS. lect., 1787). “ No artificial instrument can give the same amount of information or afford information so precise with regard to the lodgment of foreign bodies and their nature as the surgeon’s finger can give. The surgeon should not withdraw the finger until the course the projectile has taken, the injury it has done, the complications of the wound, such as the presence of foreign bodies, and, in such a case, their kind and situation, have been decided by him; the exploration will then be completed by one operation, and a second insertion of the finger for the purpose, which is always irritating to a patient will be avoided.” The knowledge gained, moreover, will be definite and of special utility in determining the proceedings to be afterwards adopted. The exploration is often assisted by pressing tbe soft parts, especially if the wound be in one of the extremities, from an opposite direction towards the finger end.” Sometimes, when a lodged ball cannot other- wise be discovered, it may be found by passing the flat palm of the hand down the limb. “ Sometimes,” writes Longmore, “it may be detected simply by relaxing the muscular tissues, so as to give a loose and pendulous condition to the parts concerned, and then lightly tossing up the flesh at different points from below with the tips of the fingers.” When the finger passes through an opening in fascia or a deep aponeurosis, the track will feel constricted, when through muscles and connective tissue expanded. When sufficient information cannot be acquired through the finger either from the length of the wound or its tortuosities, probes must be used. Nelaton’s (Fig. 601), with a small ball of porcelain at the end, is good, and so also Sayre’s snake-jointed probe, with a like end. Longmore prefers a long silver probe, which can be bent to any angle, but speaks highly of Dr. Lecomte’s stylet-pince. Fig. 601. Lecomte’s Stylet-pince. a. Cannula moving over; (i) clelt steel rod with closed curettes at end,fixed in handle ; (c) the gliding of the cannula determining the opening or closing of the curettes; (d) curettes open grasping bullet. It responds as an indicator with even more distinctness than the