fiondilion of srts in lumps. growth of lie shafts of ione3 in [tumps. ’dinful Humps. 'Necrosis of lone of ,ttump. 610 NECROSIS OP STUMPS. A stump that looks well after an operation, with a mass of muscle covering it, is sure to undergo a change ; the muscles will degenerate and the muscular fibres losing all their characteristic features, turn into fibro-cellular tissue, of which, and of fatty tissue, a good stump is formed. The end of the bone will become rounded off, and its medul- lary canal filled up; the nerves of the stump also will become bulbous to a degree, but painful only when they are involved in the cutaneous cicatrix or bound down to the bone. At times, however, stumps grow, and become conical, and in the amputations of childhood this condition must be expected. It is best seen in the leg, as it so happens that the shafts of bones grow most where they come in contact with the larger epiphyses, and in the leg, the one entering into the knee-joint is the larger. In the case of a boy, set. 7, whose leg I had to amputate, with some irregular skin flap, for a com- pound fracture, just below the knee, I have had to take away on two occasions, at intervals of three years, two pieces of bone at least an inch long, purely from the growth of the bone during childhood, and it was interesting to notice, that the tibia on both occasions had grown at least twice as much as the fibula; in my second operation I never touched the fibula. Painful stumps are most distressing; and are commonly caused by some increase in the bulbous condition of the divided nerves, the nerve being included in the cicatrix or pressed upon by the bone, and under such circumstances, a cure is readily effected by the removal of the bulbous nerve. But in others, the extreme pain seems to be due to liyperaesthesia which is often called hysterical, the slightest touch of the end of the stump being sufficient to cause convulsive twitchings of the limb, and pain flying up the stump. In these cases, operative in- terference cannot be recommended, although nerve stretching has been advocated; the general condition of the body usually associated with this affection requires attention; tonics are always required, with local soothing anodyne applications, such as belladonna, opium, or stramonium ointments, &c. Necrosis of the stump is a common condition, and it is often due to too great a separation of the periosteum from the bone at the time of the Fig. 643. Necrosis of a stump. operation from the forcible traction of the flaps backwards, and, at times, to a distinct endostitis of the divided bone (osteo-myelitis). In the former case, the necrosis is limited, and will probably show itself