BROSTCHOTOMY, TRACHEOTOMY, LARYNGOTOMY. 31 extended upwards into the larynx, either through the cricoid and thy- roid cartilages or downwards as far as needed. For both operations chloroform may be safely administered, unless asphyxia be profound, when it is not required. Laryngotomy is not an operation to be performed on children, the Laryngo- crico-thyroid space at an early period of life being too small to allow tomy- of a free opening being made into it. It is only applicable in adults ^as®s when obstruction to respiration exists above the rima glottidis, such as lca 1 e' that caused by an impacted mass of food, or some pharyngeal growth. For tetanus or any other spasmodic affection of the larynx threatening life, it may likewise be employed, as well as in operations on the palate, pharynx, &c., in which it is advisable to ensure the free passage of air into the lungs during manipulation ; although under these latter cir- cumstances tracheotomy and the use of Dr. Trendelenburg’s plug is to be preferred (Fig. 205, vol. i). To perform the operation, the patient should be placed on the back Mode of with the thorax raised, shoulders drawn down, and head extended. The performance, operator should stand on the patient’s right side, and feel for the thy- roid cartilage, at the lower border of which the windpipe is to be opened. To do this, a vertical incision is to be made in the median line, about one inch long, cutting through all the tissues covering iu the crico-tliyroid membrane. The membrane should then he opened transversely with a knife. The crico-thyroid arteries cross this space, and may possibly be divided giving rise to some little haemorrhage. Sir W. Fergusson has recorded a case narrated to him by Professor Turner, of Edinburgh, in which a fatal haemorrhage occurred from these vessels. Tracheotomy is by no means a simple operation, but under all On circumstances is delicate, requiring coolness and caution, and when tracheotomy. Eiq. 314. Operation of tracheotomy.