73 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. which is not inflammatory, but is generally believed to be a common consequence of old age, indeed, it has been regarded as a general senile change. Pathological investigations, however, have taught us that this is not the case, Thompson, with others, having clearly proved that although it is an affection of advanced life, it is in no way a necessary attendant on old age, the vast majority of old men having nothing of the kind. When present, it is usually met with in subjects over sixty. Thomp- son has not met with an example under the age of fifty.-four; and, after many dissections of the prostates of elderly men, he found an appre- ciable enlargement of the organ in one third of the cases, but in only one third of these was it enough to cause symptoms during life. The disease is generally believed to be an hypertrophy or over- Pathology, growth of natural tissues, and, in a certain proportion of instances this is doubtless the case; but in others, the enlargement is clearly caused by the development of distinct glandular tumours embedded within the Glandular structure of the gland which may be squeezed out of the organ upon tumours, division of the tissues covering them in. They are sometimes merely covered by the capsule of the prostate, while at others, they are well placed within its structure; at times they are single, at others mul- tiple, and rarely give rise to any other than mechanical symptoms. When these growths are situated in what is called the third lobe of the prostate, they give rise to symptoms of obstruction and bladder irritation, precisely similar to those caused by the genuine enlarge- ment or hypertrophy of the gland itself. These fibrous or glandular 1 tumours are analogous to those found in the uterus. This hypertrophy is now known to be, as shown by Ellis and others, a mere increase in j|the natural fibrous and muscular tissue of the organ with the glandular [structure. The enlargement is mostly general, and, as long as the vesi- Enlargement leal or third lobe is not materially enlarged, nor the urethra encroached of middle or } upon, it is extraordinary to what a size the prostate may attain with- tIlinl lol)e' put giving rise to auy special symptoms. It is indeed only when the so-called third Fig. 824. i obe increases bladder-ways, and interferes [mechanically with the act of micturition Jjy its size or the direction of its growth, •hat any marked symptoms are produced. I n the preparation from which Fig. 324- i vas taken this condition is well shown. The effect of an enlargement of the pros- Effects of an rate upon the urethra is very variable. At enlarged l me time the prostatic urethra will be prostate. Idongated to twice or more its normal length; while at another, it will be tor- j uous—this condition being caused by an Unequal enlargement of the lateral lobes. t is under these circumstances that the 3 .iameter of the passage may be encroached kpon and obstruction produced. In the J ladder, other changes are found, and the ludden projection upwards of the vesical or -bird lobe is the most common; yet when j /ith this there is an enlargement of one or