Treatment. Incontinence in adults. Treatment. 70 INCONTINENCE OF URINE. When the prepuce is very long or adherent, circumcision should be performed. When the urine is chemically wrong in any of its constituents, remedies must be given to correct the faults, and a limpid watery urine in a child, as in an adult, is always an irritant. With respect to medicines, the tincture of iron is doubtless the best, and next to it, belladonna, either in the form of the tincture or extract, but in some instances the combination of the two is excellent. I have tried and been disappointed with full doses of chloral given at bed-time. It acts at times wonderfully well, but at others appears use- less. When employed, it should be given on an empty stomach. Tonics are the right medicines, one form often succeeding where another fails; iron, quinine, nux vomica, and zinc being, as a rule, better than belladonna. The tonics by day and a night-dose of belladonna have sometimes proved of value. The bowels should always be attended to, and the presence of worms considered; and it is well to have the bowels relieved at night before going to bed. When the child is not too young, cold baths with or without salt should be used, and every means employed to maintain the general health, although it must be added, that children who labour under this infirmity are rarely feeble and cachectic. The child should be encouraged to sleep on his side in preference to his back, and for this end, a handkerchief with a knot in it may be fastened round the pelvis, the knot being adjusted over the sacrum. In cases of extreme obstinacy, some surgeons apply a solution of nitrate of silver, ten grains to the ounce, to the neck of the bladder, and it said with advantage. Others apply mechanical means to prevent the flow of urine, such as an india-rubber ring around the penis, or cover up the urethral or preputial orifice by a layer of col- lodion. Good reports have been given of these practices. I cannot say that I think well of any such means and have never adopted them, as they seem wrong in principle. Nocturnal incontinence in a child generally means atony of the sphincter; while incontinence during the day suggests bladder irrita- tion, generally a stone or urethral obstruction. Incontinence in the adult, as already stated, means, as a rule, over- fulness of the bladder, the real condition being one of retention from some obstructive urethral or prostatic disease, bladder atony, or paralysis. It may, however, be due to stone, or the result of a preceding lithotomy. In women it may be associated with some uterine displacement or dis- turbance, some urethral disease or injury. In men and women, severe spine disease may cause it. To treat it, the cause must be ascertained, aud, as the first means of investigation, the introduction of a catheter is probably a sound practice to follow, since it settles at once the question of retention, and often detects the ti-ue cause, thereby giving a clue to the treatment to be adopted, viz. the removal of the cause. True incontinence, however, is met with in severe cases of general or local paralysis, in functional derangement of the cord from venereal excesses, and still more frequently from self-abuse; such patients often complaining of “ inability to stop the flow of urine when com- menced.” It is, however, seen in old people with prostatic enlarge- ment, the third lobe being enlarged and projecting forward between