40 SURGERY OF THE CHEST. as con- soft tissues outside the thorax; while the absence of haemoptysis is no proof that the lung has escaped injury. When blood and air bubble through the wound and air passes freely from it, or a portion of lung protrudes, there is no room for doubt as to the nature of the injury; but these cases are exceptional. In the majority, the diagnosis is ever uncertain, since there are no definite individual symptoms by which in- jury to the lung is to he diagnosed. The surgeon in his anxiety to wound Pr°l)e ma*ie out point must never be induced to probe the wound, or to explore it with a finger; nor should he test the condition of the lung by making his patient cough to expel air through the thoracic opening. Indeed, he should throw aside all direct or manipulative modes of investigation, and trust to the indirect. The direct effects of a penetrating wound are, haemorrhage into the chest or haemo-thorax, emphysema, pneumo-thorax, and hernia of the lung. The secondary results are those of inflammation such pleurisy or pneumonia, hydro-thorax, or empyema, with their sequences. The prognosis is always unfavourable, and should be guarded, more particularly when the wound is penetrating; hut, when a week has passed without any unfavorable symptoms appealing, a more promising and decided tone may be assumed. Treatment.—In all suspected or obvious penetrating chest wounds, the utmost gentleness should be employed, and complete quiet en- forced; as any deviation from this practice may disturb nature’s reparative process, disarrange clot, and excite over-action or inflamma- tion. The external wound should be carefully cleaned and closed, and all foreign bodies removed. The patient should be placed in the re- cumbent position, and on no account allowed to stir. He should be fed on the simplest nutritious food, and which for the first two or three days should be cold, while ice and milk is without doubt the best mixture. The collapse which often follows the injury need not excite alarm unless it be protracted or severe, for when the result of haemorrhage it is not only a salutary measure, but the only means the surgeon looks to for the arrest of haemorrhage, as he himself is powerless to interfere. If blood, however, accumulates in the chest and by its mechanical pressure threaten life, some means must be found for its evacuation, either through the original wound or by the operation of tapping, or by an incision of tbe thorax. The indications should be very decided before the surgeon interferes, as the extravasated blood rapidly coagu- lates and consequently is difficult to remove. The same remarks hold good when air accumulates or is pent up in the pleural cavity. The symptoms that attend reaction should be carefully watched, and anything like excess of action, as indicated by increased difficulty in respiration, cough, or a rapid pulse, ought to be met by the administra- tion of antimony in half-drachm doses of the wine with some saline every three or four hours. If the lungs become gorged with blood and asphyxia threatens, vene- section is as valuable a remedy in these cases as it has been shown to be in those of fractured ribs. Dr. Macleod tells us, that in the Crimea, the cases of gunshot wounds of the chest that did the best were those in which early and repeated bleedings were had recourse Sedatives. to. Pain must be relieved by anodynes, chloral being better than opium. Kffects. Prognosis. Treatment. Closure of external wound. Rest. Attend to collapse. Treatment of reaction Antimony. Venesection.