Examples. Pelvic examination. Cancer generally involves both ovaries. On the removal of benign multilocular tumours. Duration of lile when left alone. 6. Hewitt’s conclusions. 272 ON OVARIAN DISEASE AND OVARIOTOMY. the abdomen might have been calculated by inches—the oedema of the skin showing itself in vesicular swellings, varying from that of a pea to a large grape. The oedema was, indeed, so great that in all these cases tapping in the median line of the abdomen, or in front, was out of the question, and a lateral position had to be selected. If, however, the organs are found to be somewhat fixed and immoveable on a pelvic examination instead of being free and mobile, the proba- bility of the growth being of a cancerous nature is much increased, for the disposition to cause infiltration of the neighbouring parts is as common in cancer of the ovary as of other parts. Cancer of the ovary is also apt to involve both organs, and from my notes of fourteen examples of disease of both ovaries, nine were cancerous; and among the cancerous there were only seven examples, or 43 per cent., in which the disease was single—the law of symmetry being observed in this as in other forms of constitutional disease. Under these circum- stances, a careful pelvic examination is a matter of such great importance that under no conditions should it be omitted, since by it alone are these points in a large proportion of cases to be made out. Are all cases of benign multilocular ovarian tumours, then, to be excised?—The answer to this question is not doubtful since the patient must be left alone to hear the inconvenience of the ovarian tumour, and endure the living death of its matured miseries and die, worn out and exhausted by the prolonged sufferings produced by its presence ; or, at some time in the progress of the disease, run the risk of the capital operation and submit to ovariotomy. Before proceeding to consider the period of the tumour’s growth at which it is desirable to undertake its extirpation, it will be well to look back on the natural history of the disease, and in- quire, what are the chances of life for a patient who is left alone ?— how long may life be prolonged under favourable circumstances ? and, what is the average period in which ovarian disease runs its course ? In discussing these points, it is needless to quote numerous author- ities, as all are tolerably agreed that the average duration of life of those who are the subjects of ovarian tumours when the disease is allowed to run its course, is two or at the utmost three years; that few live over four, and those who survive beyond that period must be re- garded as exceptional. In my own cases 75 per cent, ran their course within two years. “Taking everything into consideration,” says Dr. Graily Hewitt, in his admirable work on the diseases of women, “ we shall not be far wron°* in drawing from the published cases of Dr. Bee and JVIi. Stafford Lee the conclusion that the probable duration of a case of ovarian disease of progressive character is, in 85 or 90 per cent, of the cases, two or at the most three years ; of the apparently ‘ stationary, or chronic cases, the progress is more favourable, but in such cases the disease is liable at any moment to start into fresh activity.. 1 he first question we naturally put to ourselves when a case of the kind comes before us for decision is, Does this case belong to the fortunate series, the 10 or 15 in the 100 ? or is it one of the 90 who must die in the course of two or three years if unrelieved ? ” To the surgeon, how- ever, this question is not of so much importance, for it is not till the tumour has become by its growth so large as to raise the question of