264 DIAGNOSIS OP OVARIAN TUMOURS. Spontaneous recovery. Rupture of cyst. Diagnosis of ovarian tumour. cases, within two years; 30 per cent, dying from exhaustion, 20 per cent, from peritonitis, 17 per cent, from suppuration of the cyst chiefly following tapping, 9 per cent, from the two last causes combined, 10 per cent, from peritonitis caused by rupture of the cyst, 10 per cent, from the cyst ulcerating into some viscus such as the intestine or bladder. Haemorrhage into the abdomen and strangulation of the bowels by the pedicle caused death in 1 case in the 100. 6. That in the monocystio tumours there is a greater disposition for the cyst to ulcerate into the bowels than in other cases, and to suppu- rate after tapping. 7. That in 56 per cent, of the cases of cancerous disease, both organs are involved. 8. That in the dermoid tumours there is a greater disposition for the cyst to rupture than in all other forms of disease, death being directly due to this cause in 37 per cent. 9. That acute peritonitis and suppuration of the cyst as a direct result of the operation of tapping is by no means unfrequent. Cases of spontaneous recovery occur, but they are so rare that they must not be looked for. When they occur they take place by rupture of the cyst, and this rupture is generally the result of accident or violent muscular action. As a rule, however, when a cyst ruptures, death takes place from shock, peritonitis, or blood poisoning (vide conclusion 5). In exceptional cases, when the cyst has discharged itself into the large intestine, the event may be signified by a copious dis- charge of the cyst’s contents by the rectum; but when into the small no such event may occur, the fluid being reabsorbed. Under both circumstances, there is always great danger to life from the entrance into the cyst itself of Decal matter or fetid air. Diagnosis of an Ovarian Tumour. When an ovarian tumour has attained a considerable size, has risen well out of the pelvis, and is uuassociated with any complications, its diagnosis is not difficult, as a rule, more particularly if it can be made out to be composed of many cysts or multilocular. But when the tumour is small or very large; unilocular or very solid; central or of rapid growth, difficulties of diagnosis are met with, and it may be admitted at once that under any of these circum- stances, there are few surgical cases that demand more care on the part of the surgeon before he gives an opinion, and still more caution before he acts upon it. In some few instances, indeed, a positive dia- gnosis cannot be made without the help'of some exploratory operative proceeding. Under all circumstances, however, “in the diagnosis of a suspected ovarian case every possibility of its nature should be enter- tained, and a conclusion arrived at by a process of exclusion; each possibility should be separately considered and weighed, and the most probable finally accepted.” The possibility of a solid or semi-solid tumour being due to preg- nancy, and the probability of a cystic tumour being complicated with it or hydramnion ought always to be before the mind of the surgeon, while the complete cessation of the menses for a few mouths in con- nection with the existence of an abdominal tumour ought also. to suggest caution in diagnosis, and, when for diagnostic or curative ends operative measures are being considered, delay, since though