STRICTURE OP THE URETHRA. 127 channel for escape. In these cases, therefore, urinary fistula will always be found. An obliteration of the urethra, the result of injury i.e. trau- matic stricture, is also met with. Locality of stricture. Locality of For the only definite facts relating to this subject I must refer stricture, and I do so with pleasure to the labours of Sir H. Thompson; for although other writers have given their “ impressions upon the. sub- ject and published isolated cases, it is to him that the profession is indebted for the analysis of 270 preparations contained in the various museums, by which inquiry alone this question could have been satis- factorily determined. He has most satisfactorily proved what is now generally received as true, that in by far the majority of cases of stricture, the juncture of the spongy and membranous portions of the urethra is its most frequent seat (Fig. 357), and that the inch situated Fig. 357. Stricture of the urethra, with dilatation of urethra behind stricture and hypertrophy of bladder. in front of this spot is the next position in point of frequency, while exceptional cases may be found in the prostatic end of the membranous portion, at the external orifice, or at the terminal two inches of the urethra, but no specimen existed in which a stricture has been observed in the prostatic portion. Looking over my own cases with a view to inquiring into the Statistics of causes of stricture, I find, omitting congenital narrowing of the ure- causes- thra, that chronic gonorrhoeal inflammation had existed in 273 out of the 646 instances, and that in 78 of these, injections had been employed in its cure; that direct injury was the assigned cause of 43; while • in 330 no definite cause could be obtained. With these facts it Gonorrlm-a seems, therefore, right to conclude “ That although gonorrhoea often as a cause, precedes a stricture, at least half the cases are found in subjects who have not suffered from such a disease; and that when gonorrhoea might be assigned as a cause, the use of injections for its cure does not appear to have had any positively injurious influence in producing a stricture.” I may add, that these results can be strictly relied on, as, when noting the cases, considerable care was taken to senrch out this fact. It may therefore unquestionably be asserted, that injections have not the inju- Injections as rious influence in exciting stricture which some authors have ascribed a cause- to them. Among the 330 cases in which no positive cause could be assigned, were three in which “gout” existed; and several in which the^con- traction of chancres might fairly be ascribed as the cause of the obstruction.