334 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. Dislocation forwards. Characters. Treatment. Dislocation upwards. Characters the cartilage of the first rib preventing; but it may take place for- wards, upwards, or backwards, and may be partial or complete. Dislocation forwards is usually caused by some violent pressure of the shoulder backwards, although Melier (‘ Archives Gen. de Med.,’ tom. xix) records a case in a child where it was produced by simply pulling the arm. The head of the bone in this accident forms a marked feature, and cannot be mistaken for anything else| (Fig. 432). When the dislocation is partial, some unusual prominence of the end of the bone on comparing it with its fellow will suggest its nature, the bone being only covered with skin and readily pressed back. When complete, the nature of the acci- dent will be still better marked; and the end of the bone will be usually found pointing downwards. Inflammatory thickening of the joint should not be mistaken for partial displacement. Treatment.—There is usually little or no difficulty in reducing this form of dislocation, by forcibly drawing back the shoulder and applying pressure to the dis- placed bone; though there is great difficulty in keeping the bone in its normal position; indeed, as a rule, it is quite impossible to do this satisfactorily. A pad in the axilla, with a figure-of-8 bandage to keep the shoulder outwards, the elbow being bound to the side, will do much towards the desired end; and a pad of lint applied outside the displaced end of the clavicle, and firmly fixed in position by strapping carried over the shoulder and scapula, has a very bene- ficial tendency. Nelaton advised the use of a common hernia truss. The surgeon, however, must expect a certain amount of failure in the treatment of these cases, though he may safely assure his patient that the usefulness of the arm will be but little, if at all, impaired. I have had one case of this dislocation combined with fracture of the sternal end of the bone, in which no harm followed its non- reduction. Dislocation upwards is very rare. Malgaigne has recorded four such cases, Hamilton another, described by Dr. Rochester, of Buffalo, and Dr. R. W. Smith a sixth (‘Dublin Journal of Medical Science/ 1872). In 1865, such a case came under my care. It was in a young woman, a milliner, set. 20, who two years before was violently crushed in a crowd, the violence causing pain which was referred to the upper pai-t of her chest. She was treated at home and got well, although with a deformity, for which she consulted me. On examining her chest, both clavicles were resting upon the border of the sternum, behind the sternal tendons of the sterno-mastoid muscles, and, with the slightest pressure upon the shoulders, the two ends could be made to meet. By drawing the shoulders backwards, the bones could be separated and pressed back into what appeared to be their normal position, but no appliance could keep them here. The patient had good movement in her arms, and followed her occupation. I have Fig. 432. Dislocation of sternal end of clavicle, forwards. Drawing 27ai, Guy’s Mus.