ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. 543 The wounds produced by rifle-balls at full speed at the point of en- Rjfie.hall trance are often small, circular, clean cut, and with inverted edges; wounds, but at the point of exit large, irregular, and with everted edges. As the distance from the weapon increases and the velocity of the ball diminishes, so the wound of entrance becomes less circular and Wound of regular, larger and more contused; the wound “ sometimes consisting entrance, of three triangular flaps, which on being lifted up can be made to meet at their apices in the centre of the opening.”—Longmore. When the ball has passed through the part the wound of exit will Wound of probably be larger than the projectile, more irregular, torn, and everted exit, than that of entrance, the subcutaneous fat often projecting. At times, however, with the cylindro-conoidal bullet discharged at full speed, there is little difference between the two wounds. In the patient’s clothing, when the wound of entrance is punctured, that of exit will be lacerated. The pain caused by a gunshot wound depends upon the parts that Fain, are injured. In a general way it is not severe, and when so, is evanescent; writers tell us, that it is often described like the sudden stroke of a cane, or the shock of a heavy blow. Sometimes soldiers are unaware of their wounds. When the trunks of nerves are pushed aside and injured, intense pain may be felt, but not locally. Longmore relates the case of an officer, who, from his sensations, thought his arm was broken, but on examination no such injury existed, a ball had passed from right to left through his neck, which probably in- jured some of the cervical or brachial plexus of nerves, thereby giving rise to his error. More pain is occasionally felt at the wound of exit of a bullet than that of entrance. Shock.—“When a large bone is suddenly shattered, a cavity penetrated, an important viscus wounded, or a limb carried away by a round shot, the most prominent symptom is the general perturbation and alarm which in most cases instantaneously supervene on the injury. This is generally described as the ‘ shock ’ of the gunshot wound. The patient trembles and totters, is pale, complains of being faint, perhaps vomits. His features express extreme anxiety and distress. This emotion is in great measure instinctive, and seems to be sympathy of the whole frame with the part subjected to serious injury, expressed through the nervous system. This shock is more or less persistent, ac- cording to circumstances. Examples seem to show that it may occasionally be overpowered altogether, even in most severe injuries, by moral and nervous action of another kind, by a state of mental tension, but this can rarely happen when the injury is a vital one. Panic may lead to similar symptoms of shock, although the wound is Effects of of a less serious natui-e. A soldier, having his thoughts carried away shock, from himself, his whole frame stimulated to the utmost height of ex- citement by the continued scenes and circumstances of the tight, when he feels himself wounded is suddenly recalled to a sense of personal danger; and if he be seized with doubt whether his wound is mortal depression as low as liis excitement was high may immediately follow! This depression will vary in degree, according to individual character and intelligence, state of health and other personal peculiarities. For while, on the one hand, in every action numerous examples occur of men walking to the field hospital for assistance almost unsupported after the loss of an arm or other such severe injury; on the other, men