SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF FEMALE GENITALS. 231 Lupus also attacks these parts like others; while warty growths are common. Syphilis has received attention in another page. Imperforate hymen is a condition to be recognised and not confused Imperforate with the adherent labia already referred to. The hymen is more deeply “ymen- placed nearer the orifice of the vagina. When imperforate, it causes retention of the menses, the accumulation of the secretions, and a pelvic tumour usually accompanied by periodic pain and constitutional disturbance. The proper treatment of these cases is the division of the imper- Treatment, forate membrane or its complete excision, the object being to allow of the free escape of the retained secretion which is usually black and treacle-like. Success usually attends this practice, though a fatal perito- nitis at times ensues. A rigid hymen is occasionally an impediment to coitus in women who Rigid hymen, marry late in life, and I have known one in which for two years after marriage the husband had never had perfect connection on this account; indeed, it was not till after his wife had become pregnant and the vaginal membrane had been ruptured during the birth of the child, that a satisfactory coitus was effected. I have also been called upon on one occasion, to divide the hymen of a May require lady about thirty, who had been married for some months, and had never ^lv 'slon- had complete connection, the husband’s penis having been very large. There are cases on record, showing that when a vagina is occluded and the patient been married, the urethra has been so enlarged as to admit the finger, and in all probability the male organ. A double vagina is another cause of difficult coitus. I was consulted Double in such a case by a patient who had been married for several years, and Vll^llia- never had connection. The woman came to me, as a divorce was Example, under consideration. She complained of extreme pain whenever an attempt at coitus was made, and the husband of inability to penetrate. On making a careful examination, a double vagina and uterus were dis- covered. I advised the division of the septum with the galvanic wire, by perforating the septum near the uterus and gradually dividing it by means of steady traction upon the wire; but, whilst the ques- tion was under the consideration of both parties, the suspicion of preg- nancy occurred, and time proved its truth. A child was born prematurely after a tedious labour, and I heard no more of the difficulties of the case. She became pregnant a second time. Besides these deformities, others may occur, such as occlusion of the vagina or absence of the uterus, or the opening of the rectum into the vagina, &c. &c. The clitoris is occasionally enlarged at birth, appearing as a small Enlarged penis. 1 have seen an example of this, and at the end of the clitoris a clitoris, depression existed corresponding to the male urethra. The child in other respects was natural. This organ, however, may in after life, become the subject of hypertrophy, indeed, of a kind of elephas as of the male penis, and require removal. Clitoridectomy for epithelial cancer has already been alluded to. Clitoridec- This operation has been practised for epilepsy and supposed erotic tomy complaints, but evidence is wanting to justify the step. The opera- co,ltleimied. tion for such purposes appears at present to be unjustifiable. Vaginal tumours, besides the cystic and epithelial, are occasionally Vaginal tumours.