170 GONORRHCEA. Gonorrhoea. Causes. Lee’s views. Cases resembling. May be acute or chronic. Symptoms. Acute or inflammatory stage. Puberty is the best period probably for the performance of this operation. Occlusion of the urethra from some membrane or band sometimes exists, which if not broken down in intra-uterine life leads to dilatation of the bladder, sacculation of the ureters, distension of the pelvis of the kidney, and destruction of its secreting structure (vide cases by Morris ‘ Med. Chir. Trans.,’ 1876). ON LOCAL VENEREAL DISEASE. Urethritis, gonorrhoea, or clap, are terms applied to cases of inflam- mation of the urethra of every degree of intensity, and the product of a great variety of causes. In some, the affection is the consequence of the direct irritation of an instrument passed into or left in the urethra, while in others, it follows excessive sexual intercourse, or ordinary sexual intercourse with chaste or unchaste women who are out of health and suffering from acridity of the vaginal secretion. It is the direct pro- duct most commonly of contagion from the specific or other pus of an inflamed mucous membrane, Simon (‘ Holmes’s System,’ vol. i) having shown that “ there is ample room to question the popular impression that only specific inflammations are communicable; much reason for suspecting it, on the contrary, to be a generic and essential property of inflammation, that its actions are always in their kind, to some extent, contagious, pus from an acute inflammation producing its kind on inoculation.” Lee states (‘ Holmes’s System,’ vol. v, ed. 2) the causes of urethritis to be the application of a gonorrhoeal discharge to the sexual organs. Certain irritating substances applied to the mucous membranes, e.g. menstrual fluid, leucorrhceal discharges, &c., and other irritants, such as the injection of a solution of ammonia, and some constitutional cause, such as gout or rheumatism. It is well to bear in mind also Ricord’s observation, “ that gonorrhoea often arises from intercourse with women who themselves have not the diseaseand Diday’s, “ that from the very fact of a woman having a discharge, no matter what its origin, she is liable to give a discharge to a man. Complaints closely resembling gonorrhoea sometimes appear in persons the subjects of stricture, after sexual intercourse, a debauch, or other excitement. The disease may be acute and come on within a few hours of connec- tion, or, it may fail to show itself for five or ten days, and, in a general way, the sooner the symptoms appear after the contagion the acuter the disease. It may be subacute or chronic. It generally commences by an itching about tbe orifice of the urethra, the mucous membrane of which will probably appear swollen and in- jected ; there will be the sensation of heat on micturition, and, after the lapse of a few hours, some muco-purulent fluid will be squeezed out of the urethra. In acute diseases, the urethral discharge will soon become abun- dant, and yellow, green, or blood-stained pus will flow from a highly injected and swollen urethra; the whole glans and penis will become red, swollen, and painful; micturition will also probably be difficult, painful, and scalding, the passage being obstructed by the swelling of the mucous membrane. Chordee, or painful erections, as the disease ad- vances, will appear, and later on perineal pain, if not suppuration. The groins, testicles, and perineum, too, become the seat of more or less ten-