FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 421 where Mr. Johnson Smith informs me he has employed it in thirty cases since 1870 with good results. It is a modification of one in- vented by Dr. J. T. Hodgen, of St. Louis, U.S. (* Treat, on Mil. Surg.,’ by F. H. Hamilton, 1865, p. 411), for gunshot fractures, and is made of galvanized iron wire (No. 2). In it the injured limb may Hodden’s be supported on a piece of flannel, which is slung to the iron rod, or, splint, upon pieces of bandage. Extension is kept up by means of the strapping attaching the foot of the injured limb to the lower cross-bar of the splint, and through the suspending cords and pulleys. The counter-extension is maintained by the weight of the limb above the fracture and weight of the body. The splint, as seen in Fig. 514, is most comfortable to the patient, and an old house surgeon, Mr. J. F. Fry reports (‘ Guy’s Gazette,’ Dec. 11, 1875) that out of seventeen cases of fracture of the thigh Its success, consecutively treated with the splint, the average amount of shorten- ing was less than half am inch, and that in six cases there was not any. I have found, however, after a lengthened trial of this splint, that a much larger amount of callus is thrown out about the seat of fracture than is met with when the bones are kept perfectly at rest, and as they are by the double splint (Fig. 507), and conclude from this fact that Double there is more mobility of the ends of the broken bone by the one form 8Pkat. of treatment than by the other. Under such circumstances, I have dis- carded Hodgen’s splint in the treatment of fractures of the thigh for the double, which is as efficient in its action as it is comfortable to the patient. I have treated with this splint consecutively 31 cases. Statistics of. and in 18 there was no shortening, in 10 there was less than half an inch, and in only 3 was there an inch. These results are far better than those reported by Mr. Fry as having been secured by Ilodgen’s. Hodgen’s splint should not be confounded with Nathan Smith’s, which is made of wire applied to the anterior surface of the frac- tured limb, which is suspended to it by rollers (Fig. 531). When the fracture is compound, an interrupted splint may be em- ployed. In addition to the long splint, short additional splints applied in front, or the inner side of, or behind the thigh as the want of the individual case may suggest, are of great value to ensure greater steadiness of the broken bone. In no case should the seat of fracture be covered in. The bandage should stop below, and, if necessary, recommence above it. To prevent the bandage slipping after it has been applied, it is a good plan to give it one coating of paste or glue. Many modifications of these means might be mentioned. Thus, Fig. 515. Mr. Campbell de Morgan’s splint, with elastic extension. Paget has very generally employed Busk’s long splint, in which a joint exists opposite the hip, which enables the patient, after union has taken