Early excision advised by some. Excision recom- mended by others. Arguments of expediency. On the treatment of hip disease before suppuration has taken place. Rest— splint. 464 ON THE TREATMENT OP HIP-JOINT DISEASE. strated that the powers of the patient were incompetent to provide, even in limited disease, the stimulus needed for repair. In the treatment of joint disease, however, it is not always a ques- tion as to the possibility or impossibility of securing a successful issue by simply aiding natural efforts, since questions of expediency come before the surgeon as to the wisdom of making the attempt, or as to whether better results might not be secured by surgical interference. Surgeons, moreover, who look upon a stiff elbow- or shoulder-joint as a serious inconvenience and an unsatisfactory result of treatment, con- sequently advocate early excision of a joint with the view of obtaining movement; and those who have little belief in natural processes guided by art, bringing about anchylosis in disease of the knee, or who think that the time occupied in the attempt is badly spent, advocate a like practice. While some surgeons are always satisfied with a cure of the disease by natural efforts assisted by art, and remove by operative measures joints or parts of joints when these natural processes have proved themselves incompetent to effect a cure; others maintain that in a large number of cases these natural processes lead only to an undesirable end, and that it is not expedient to trust to them. Arguments of expediency also are used, and in recent times have gained in importance, more particularly as brought to bear upon the question of a cure with a stiff joint, when a prolonged interval of time must of necessity be required to secure the end. In some cases, such arguments are of weight, and worthy of consideration, although as a broad rule of practice it is dangerous to adopt them, for, in the majority of cases, natural processes guided by art are followed by results which leave little to be desired, and are secured without the risks which are attached to all operative interference. These points, however, will come out better when the treatment of individual joints has to be considered, and to which attention will now be drawn. Treatment of Disease of the Hip-joint. So long as suppuration or other disorganizing change in the joint has not appeared, a good hope of a recovery with a useful articulation may be entertained; and so long as the disease is in the synovial mem- brane, the probabilities of a recovery with a moveable joint are great. In a large number of cases where time has been allowed to pass and disease has gone on to produce degenerative changes in the articular cartilages, recovery with anchylosis is to be looked for; anchylosis without suppuration being more common after articular ostitis than after synovial disease (vide paper, by author, in ‘ Med. Times,’ July and August, 1869). When, however, disease originates in the epiphy- sis of the head of the bone—or in the epiphysial connective cartilage between the epiphysis and shaft, the prospects of a recovery with movement are slight, unless the mischief be checked in its early stage; for, in the former case, the articular cartilage which derives its nourishment mainly from the bone, soon undergoes degenerative changes that can only be repaired by processes ending in anchylosis; and, in the latter, the epiphysis is often cast off as a foreign body, when recovery can only take place on its exfoliation or removal. In both classes of cases, however, the treatment is in a measure the same—that is, the joint is to be at rest, and all inter-articular pressure