591 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. ulcerations, on account of the feebleness of the circulation through the thin cutaneous covering, and in neither could a good hand be fitted with comfort. Both patients likewise regretted that the amputation had not been performed higher up. Under these circumstances, I am disposed to follow the opinion of my patients, and cannot advocate the operation. If, however, it be called for, it should be performed with skin flaps and the circular division of the deeper tissues, or by the pure circular operation. Amputation of thumb and fingers. Anatomical details. Amputation of fingers at metacarpal joint. Amputation of the Thumb and Fingers. A knowledge of the shape of the articular ends of the bones and the position of the different articulations of the hand is of importance in all operations on these parts, and I have, therefore, supplied a figure to illustrate these points as much as possible (Fig. 623). The surgeon should remember, that with the hand closed, the knuckles are formed by the heads of the me- tacarpal bones, the bases of the pha- langes being in front, and that in the second and third rows the same arrangement holds good. To open any of these joints, consequently, the line of incision should be anterior to the knuckles on the dorsal aspect and in the fold of the fingers on the pal- mar. In the figure it will be observed also that the two distal joints are concave, with the concavity looking towards the ends of the fingers, while at the metacarpal joints the concavity points the other way, the heads of the metacarpal bones being round; from the palmar surface the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are at least half an inch behind the clefts of the fingers, corresponding pretty nearly with the palmar furrow of the hand, this furrow likewise corre- sponds with the upper limit of the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons and with the bifurcation of the digital arteries. In amputating at the phalangeal joints (Fig. 623, c) or through the bones, anterior and posterior semicircular flaps are better than one long flap, although this may at times be performed with advantage, one long anterior flap (b), after opening the joint from its dorsal aspect (a), being the most common shape; but the surgeon must in these cases be much guided by what skin he has to utilise. As a rule, it is wise not to take off the head of the proximal bone, though when there is not sufficient flap to cover it the surgeon may be justified in removing its head with bone forceps. Amputation of the fingers at their metacarpal joints requires much nicety, and in all the fingers the surgeon should remember, that he is on Fig. 623. Outline diagram for amputation of the thumb and fingers.