STONE IN THE BLADDER, 79 The student should remember that healthy urine is a clear, acid, amber-colour fluid, with a specific gravity of 1020 to 1030; that in 1000 parts, 954-81 consist of water, 45'19 of solid matters. These solid matters are made up as follows: urea, 2T57; uric acid, 0-36; extractives, such as creatine, creatinine, xanthine, hippuric acid, ammonia, sarcine, pigment, unoxidized sulphur, phosphorus, mucus, &c., 6-53; chlorine, 4’57; sulphuric acid, T31; phosphoric acid, 2'09; potash, 1-40; soda, 7T9; lime, 0-11; magnesia, 0T2. He should further remember that, after drinking, or after a meal, the urine is altered by the nature of the diet and probably diluted; and that the best sample of urine to examine is that passed in the morning before breakfast—the “ urina sanguinis” of Prout; when this urine contains any ingredient in excess or in deposit, some important derangement of the system exists. When any of the constituents of Disturbance the urine are in excess, the balance which normally exists between !al them, and that keeps them in solution is disturbed, and, as a conse- quence, some deposit takes place. When this excess consists of the saline matter of the urine such as those of potash or soda, urinary deposits and stone are less liable to form on account of their solubility than when the excess is found in the alkaline earths, for the salts of lime and magnesia are most insoluble, and consequently, when in excess, soon show themselves as gravel or calculi. For the same reason, uric acid being very sparingly soluble, is a very common urinary deposit, and is a constituent of most stones. When blood or pus is found in the urine, the surgeon has to discover its source. Is the origin of the blood urethral, prostatic, vesical, or renal ? Has the pus been secreted by the bladder, or been poured into it from the kidneys or other part of the urinary tract ? Is the salt the result of some ex- cessive supply of its chemical constituents, some deficiency in the work- ing power of the machinery of the body, or some accidental circumstance ? Are the kidneys themselves at fault ? or, is it that they are called upon to excrete morbid products which have accumulated in the blood from organic or functional disturbance of other portions of the body upon which the existence of healthy blood depends ? All these points have to be determined in dealing with any case of urinary deposit; and in the special works devoted to the subject can be found all that is neces- sary to guide the student. What I seek to impress here is, that urinary deposits are not Deposits themselves diseases, nor to be dealt with as such. They are always indicative of to be accepted as indications of disease, functional or organic, in Mellon"*1 some of the working organs or other parts of the machinery of the body. The reader is referred for all special information on these points to the works of Bird, Beale, Owen Rees, Bence Jones, William Roberts, Thudichum, Vogel, and Hassall. Healthy urine ought to be quite clear. It may, however, be slightly hazy from mucus or from the deposition of urates in cold weather without being abnormal. When any deposit has been merely sus- pended in the urine, it will commence subsiding as soon as the urine has passed. These deposits are mostly organic, and derived from the kid- neys themselves or urinary passages. They may consist of epithelium- cells, columnar or tesselated, from those parts, with more or less mucus. ( Vide Fig. 326.) ►