545 ON GUNSHOT INJURIES. applied, be of more value than is the ligature iu coping with secondary bleeding after gunshot injury.”—Mac Cormac. With respect to the treatment of secondary haemorrhage after gun- Treatment of shot wounds it is iu principle, similar to that which the civil surgeon secondary follows. Styptics where large vessels are concerned are worse than 1Eemon a'-e- useless. Pressure is only applicable for temporary, hut not curative pur- poses,and thus the surgeon is driven to cut downupon thewoundedartery to tie or twist both ends, or, to apply the same practice to the vessel in its continuity leading to the seat of bleeding when the former operation is too difficult or dangerous. Billroth advocates dealing with the main trunk of the bleeding vessel at an early period of the haemorrhage, and not wasting time by delay. He says that out of twenty-three cases in which he applied a ligature to large arteries for haemorrhage, death took place in seven from bleeding on the separation of the ligature, when no clot was found in the vessel; in twelve from haemorrhage and pyaemia, of which no examination was made, and seven alone re- covered. In the late Continental war Stromeyer, and Mac Cormac maintain that the result of such operations was uniformly unfavorable. Out of twelve cases which Stromeyer saw, only two recovered. “ I think,” he says, “we must decide to amputate oftener in cases of secondary haemorrhage.” Possibly a better result might have followed torsion of the arteries, for, after such a practice, when bleeding has been arrested, there is nothing to set up fresh mischief in the artery, no foreign body like the ordinary ligature to excite any ulcerative or disorganizing process through which hemorrhage may take place; the thrombus that forms in the vessels after torsion, being allowed to go on undisturbed, to organize and to become incorporated with the incurved middle arterial coat as one firm organized fibrinous mass. The catgut ligature, how- ever, may possibly be of use in these cases. Treatment.—In the front of the battle-field little more can be done Treatment, in the way of treatment of gunshot wounds than the application of some provisional dressing; some pressure or tourniquet to arrest lias- Provisional, morrhage when the vessel cannot be at once secured; some splint or other available support to prevent extra injury being inflicted by move- ment to the field hospital. Before examining a wound, the cloths that cover it should be carefully looked to, and more particularly the garment next the skin, for “ it occasionally happens that a bullet will have sufficient force to penetrate the body to a limited distance, at the same time carrying a portion of the wouuded man’s shirt before it, while, owing to the yielding nature of the material it fails to tear a piece out of it. The bullet will then lie, as it were, at the bottom of a pouch of the shirt like the finger in a glove; and when the shirt is taken out the bullet will be brought away with it.” Longmore, in his recent work on “ gunshot injuries,” relates several instances of the kind. At the field hospital the wound should be thoroughly and carefully Final examined, and to do so, the patient should be placed, when practicable as near as possible in the position he occupied when he received it. All foreign bodies must be taken away, bleeding vessels ought to be ligatured or twisted; and, when necessary, the wound should be enlarged for the purpose. No make-shift of pressure or other temporising means should be employed. When great collapse or “ shock ” exists some gentle stimulant may he given. The true condition of parts is VOL. ii. 35