ABSCESS IN BONE. 508 Abscess in head of tibia. Chronic abscess in bones. Situation. Symptoms. cases, acute inflammation of bone had ended in the formation of a local abscess with circumscribed necrosis, and recovery rapidly followed the surgical treatment. A few years ago, a child was brought to me, who had received when asleep an injury to the tibia, from a playfellow having attempted to drive a pin into the hone. Nothing beyond some slight local pain had followed the injury fora few days, when severe pain and swelling appeared, with fever, &c. I cut down upon the part with a view of giving relief, when the point of my knife went with a crackle through a thin layer of hone into a cavity, which gave vent to a teaspoonful or more of pus. Immediate relief followed the operatiou and a good recovery took place. These three cases suffice to illustrate the fact that acute abscess - in hone is met with, and to show its symptoms and treatment. Chronic Abscess. In 1773 William Broomfield, surgeon to St. George’s Hospital, in his ‘ Chirurgical Observations,’ writes:—“Whenever a patient; complains of a dull, heavy pain, deeply situated in the hone,, possibly consequent to a violent blow received in the part some time before, and though at the time the patient complains of this un- easiness within the bone the integuments shall appear perfectly sound, and the bone itself not in the least injured, we have great reason to suspect an abscessus in the medulla.” In 1824, Sir B. Brodie ampu- tated a limb for incurable pain in the tibia, and in this case which Sir W. Fergusson has described “ as one of the beacon lights of sur- gery never to he forgotten,” “ the lower end of the tibia is § enlarged, and the surface presents marks of great vascularity; the hone in the preparation is divided longitudinally, and just above the articulating surface there is a cavity as large as a small chestnut. This cavity was filled with dark-- coloured pus. The inner surface oft it is smooth. The hone immediately, surrounding it is harder that natural.” In these two extracts, written at am interval of fifty years, are embodied; the clinical and pathological facts con-- nected with this subject which are now recognised by surgeons. This chronic abscess is generally met; with in the articular ends of hones, that is, in their cancellous tissue, more particularly iu the two ends of the tibia. I have, however, seen it in the condyle of the femur and the humerus, and in the shafts of the ulna, radius, and tibia. It may also occur in any, hone. In Fig. 576 the cavity of such an abscess is illustrated, and in Fig. 559 is seen its opening into the joint. The history of these cases is generally obscure, an injury at times being its assigned cause. The most character- istic symptoms are a fixed, aching. Pig 576. - F/ii/ihysial Cartilage Abscess in head of tibia; disorganiza- tion and dislocation of the joint. Prep. Guy’s IIosp. Mus., 12455a.