249 DIAGNOSIS OF TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. before him in which the structure of the gland is itself involved, and there is no independent moveable tumour, such as we have been con- sidering; but that on manipulation it is evident the growth, what- ever it may be, is intimately connected with the gland structure. What is the case ? Have we an inflammatory affection only of the organ, or some hypertrophy or innocent enlargement ? Is it a simple or a malignant disease ? When the manipular indications of the mammary gland are those only of enlargement, is such a condition due to pregnancy, or the product of a simple hypertrophy, confining the meaning of that term to an excess of growth ? If the increase be due to hypertrophy, which is a somewhat rare Hypertrophy, condition, it has been to a certainty of a chronic nature, and its increase slow and growth painless. The gland will appear simply enlarged, with no increase in action beyond that which growth demands, although this increase in growth may be very great. It is found mostly in young women, but I have seen it in the male; at times, it affects only one gland. In the case from which Fig. 398 was taken, each gland on removal weighed about fourteen pounds. I saw the case some years ago at Grantham with my friend Mr. Shipman. The breasts were subsequently removed by Sir W. Fergusson. That the affection is something more than a mere increase in the {growth of the gland is proved by the fact that, in a woman, rot. 43, who had this disease in her right fl breast of thirteen years’ growth and not in her left, and had a child u no milk was secreted in the diseased gland, while in the sound one there was abundance. If the enlargement due to pregnancy, there can be little difficulty Pregnancy, in the diagnosis, for it is attended with an activity of the local cir- culation, a general fulness of the gland, an enlargement of its veins, and a darkening of the areola, which will not fail to excite suspicion. Besides this, both glands will be similarly affected, a coincidence which is rarely seen in any morbid condition. The very suspicion of preg- nancy, however, will be enough to call attention to other points, by which a solution of the difficulty can be obtained. Is the enlargement to be explained by any inflammatory condition 1 Chronic I do not mean an acute inflammatory condition, for such an affection has inflammation features which are too characteristic to allow any mistake in diagnosis and cancer- being made, but is this infiltration of the gland which is present to be explained by some chronic inflammatory change, such as is so frequently found in the female breast; or is it the early stage of an infiltrating cancer ? The answer to this query is not always easy. In middle-aged patients when cancerous affections may be looked for, Fig. 398. Hypertro- phied breasts do not secrete milk. Breast does not secrete milk.