Burs® liable to inflam- mation. Chrome inflammation of burs®. Symptoms. Subcu- taneous rupture. 302 AFFECTIONS OF BUES.® MIJCOSiE, GANGLION, ETC. “ housemaid’s knee.” When it acutely inflames, suppuration rapidly takes place, and if an external outlet for the pus is not soon established diffused suppuration around the knee and over the patella follows. Indeed, most of the cases of diffused suppuration around the knee have their origin in “ bursitis.” When the inflammation is less acute and shows itself by serous effusion into the bursa, it may give rise to local pain on pressure and a peculiar crepitation, this crepitation often existing before any percep- tible enlargement of the bursa has taken place. In the more advanced stage, when the effusion has increased, an encysted fluctuating swelling will have formed, which may be tense or flaccid, the degree of tension of the bursa turning entirely upon the rapidity of the effusion. In more chronic examples, the bursa will appear harder, firmer, and less distinctly fluctuating, while in very neglected or chronic cases, it may have so consolidated as to appear as a solid tumour, although the tumour will contain on section some cavity in its centre, the mass appearing to be made up of con- centric lamina) of organized lymph (Fig. 416). In exceptional may have completely consolidated. These bursae, as a rule, contain simple serum, although at times serum is blood-stained, while mother cases, rice-like bodies (organ- ized fibrin) or pedunculated fringe-like out- growths like loose cartilages exist. When injured these bursae may become filled with blood—their contents being grumous or like coffee-grounds (haematocele). Bands of lymph cross the sac at times, but more frequently they line it in regular, onion- like layers. In neglected cases, this fibrin may die and slough away, the bursa being cast out as a whole as in an ordinary cellular membranous ulcer, and in the case from which Fig. 417 was taken. In syphilitic subjects, this result is not un- frequent. On the other hand, a bursa may increase by effusion, and by some external cause rupture subcutaneously or externally, and thereby undergo cases, however, the bursa Fig. 416. Semi- solid bursa, laid open. (Guy’s Museum.) Fig. 417. Bursa sloughing from over patella. a cure. In 1870,1 had a case of the former kind under my care in a man jet. 60, who had a bursa the size of a fist over his patella, which rup- tured on kneeling. When I saw him, the cellular tissue about the knee