203 SYPHILITIC ORCHITIS. particularly, when the disease ends in suppuration, as in all pro- bability it may when coming on and progressing in the manner just indicated, it is reasonable to believe that the organ is the seat of tuber- cular mischief, and that it disorganises as a result. . It must be added, too, that in these cases the tubercular affection is probably of the infiltrating or miliary tubercular form, and not of that crude nature which runs a different course, and to which attention will subsequently be directed. In gouty inflammation of the organ, the symptoms, as. a rule, are not so chronic as in the class of cases to which we have just alluded. Indeed they may more rationally he described as being of a subacute- nature, for though generally coming on slowly, they are mani- fested by greater local tenderness and pain—the pain being consi- derably aggravated at certain periods, and most probably at night. The disease has, moreover, a strong tendency towards recovery, and not towards disorganisation of the testis. Besides these symptoms, others indicating a gouty disposition will probably be present such as acidity of stomach, a loaded condition of the urine, and a more or less distinct history of gout. There will also be frequent nocturnal pains of a darting character in the opposite testicle, leading the patient to fear a double attack, and when these pains occur, they are valuable in connection with others as diagnostic symptoms. Symptoms and Diagnosis of Syphilitic Orchitis. That syphilitic inflammatory disease may attack the testicle as any other gland or texture of the body, within or without, seems at the present day a tolerably well-recognised pathological fact, and, the credit of bringing this subject clearly before the profession is largely due to my colleague, Dr. Wilks. I propose now to point out such symptoms as may aid in the recognition of syphilitic inflammation as affecting the seminal gland tissue. Before doing so it may be well briefly to consider in what way the syphilitic differs from other forms of inflammation, as such knowledge will help us to understand the local affection; and, fortu- nately, the points of difference are neither numerous nor deeply seated. The main one is palpable and apparent, for even to the most casual observer it is readily seen, that in all syphilitic inflammations, there is a marked tendency to the deposition of a product which rapidly undergoes fibrous changes, and tends to infiltrate the part affected with an organ- isable or organised material of a dense, firm, and fibrous structure. We see this in every tissue and in every stage of the disease. We see it manifesting itself primarily by the almost cartilaginous hardness of the base of the true infecting chancre; we see it in the early constitu- tional symptoms of syphilis, in the different eruptions, and in the greater permanency of them skin staining; in the different affections of the mucous membranes in all their parts; in the inflammation of the eye, cellular tissue, periosteum, and bone. The pathologist sees it, moreover, in the varied changes found after death in the internal organs of the syphilitic subject; and the surgeon sees it, likewise, in the inflammation of the testes. For in the subject of hereditary or acquired syphilis, the testicle may at some period of the disease, and generally at a late one, become the seat of a syphilitic inflammation, which manifests all the Gouty inflammation of testis. Syphilitic disease of testis. Peculiarity of syphilitic ’ inflammation in general.