CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE BREAST. 255 with squamous epithelium. It is always perfectly closed, and never communicates with a duct.” Such a cyst should be punctured with a trocar and canula and some Treatment, cold lotion' applied, for, by this means many are permanently cured. Brodie employed alone, without puncture, a lotion made up of an ounce of the solution of the subacetate of lead and three ounces and a half of both spirits of wine and camphor, which was to be applied on a piece of folded flannel, and renewed every three or four hours until the skin over the tumour had become inflamed; the application to be re-applied after the lapse of two or three days. Besides the simple serous cyst, many examples of tumours of the Spurious breast come under the observation of the surgeon, the diagnosis of 0’stother which is much obscured by the presence of cysts, or rather of what Mr. aj^aae>0f Birkett describes as capsules, containing fluid of divers characters breast. For the development of a cyst in the majority of tumours is a mere accident due to the effusion of fluid, probably serum, more or less blood-stained into the connective-tissue of the part the fluid sepa- rating the solid growth and so forming an apparent cyst. Such a cyst however, is not a new development, like the more solid portion of a tumour, nor is it in any way to be compared with the simple cystic formations which are found in the neck or other portions of the body. Characters. The existence of the false cysts, therefore, such as I have briefly sketched, in any of the breast tumours, whether adenoid or malignant, is to be regarded as a mere accident, and ought to have no weight in determining either the innocency or malignancy of the growth under Cysts as a examination; they are the product of a mechanical cause, may means of occur in either form, are not special growths nor of any intrinsic thagnosis- importance. The diagnosis of the tumour containing such cysts rests consequently on other points, and more particularly on such as have been already indicated. As a rule, these so-called cysts are found in the less firm and solid forms of tumour in such as contain less cellular or connective tissue, and in the more rapidly developed rather than in the slowly formed. We thus find in one form of cystic Cystic adenoma, a more or less solid tumour, the growth being more lobulated and loosely connected where the false cysts or cap- sules exist. In a second class of cases loose pedunculated growths will be seen lying within these capsules, with their floating extremities bathed with the so- called cyst contents (Fig. 404). The dif- ferent forms assumed by these tumours de- pending upon the amount of connective tissue which binds Fig. 404. adenoma. Pedunculated growths in cysts. Section of adcnocele, with cystic and intra-cystic growths of all kinds.