Treatment where joint is in abnormal position. Treatment of anchylosis. Osiifie union. Value of anchylosis. Treatment of diseases of the ankle. Diseases of shoulder. Treatment of diseases of the elbow. 472 ON THE TREATMENT AND CURE OF JOINT DISEASE. and for this purpose, extension by means of weights or elastic extension is very valuable. In a more advanced stage, however, when the disease has so progressed in the bones as to have set up some degene- rating process in the cartilages, and the synovial membrane has become involved, as indicated by effusion or the pulpy synovial thickening, the use of the splint is essential. In neglected cases when the joint has been allowed to assume an abnormal position—the most common being that of flexion, with some amount of rotation inwards or outwards—and in still worse cases where dislocation of the tibia and fibula backwards has taken place, the deformity if possible must be remedied by gradual extension. This should be employed by means of a posterior screw splint, or the appli- cation of a constant gentle force, exerted through one of the many instruments that have been made with the view of pressing the femur backwards and the head of the tibia forwards. Manual extension exerted under chloroform employed with care rarely does much harm; forcible and sudden extension cannot be recommended, as it is followed at times by severe local action and suppuration. In exceptional cases it may be required. Anchylosis.—When a knee-joint has to be fixed, the best position is one of slight flexion, or that which a man naturally assumes when he stands at ease. But anchylosis is more difficult to secure in the knee than any other joint, on account of the presence of the inter-articular fibro cartilages which prevent the bony surfaces from coming in con- tact. Moreover, these cartilages when diseased, are most difficult of repair, no tissue undergoing a reparative process more slowly or im- perfectly. It is, doubtless, from a knowledge of these clinical truths that some despair of securing anchylosis in the knee, and even doubt its occurrence, and are led to interfere by operation oftener than others. Anchylosis of the knee—good solid ossific union of the bones, as well as fibrous anchylosis—does, however, occur, and when secured, is of great value. It gives a limb which is far superior to any other that follows excision, and is, as a rule, obtained without the dangers of an operation, although possibly with the expenditure of more time. I have the notes of many such cases, and in the ‘Med. Times,’ 1870, I published a series in some of which this result took place with and in others without suppuration. Diseases of the ankle-joint should be treated on precisely the same principles as those laid down for the knee, the best position of the foot being at an angle slightly exceeding that of a right angle. Diseases of the shoulder-joint, in their progress and treatment, are very similar to those of other joints. When the shoulder has to be fixed, a leather casing, including the scapula and humerus, is a good apparatus, the elbow being at the same time supported. The arm should be allowed to hang parallel to the trunk, with the elbow slightly away from the chest; and for this purpose Stromeyer’s cushion is of great value. (Fig. 497.) Diseases of the elbow-joint can be usually managed with greater ease than any other—a splint applied in the flexure of the joint, passing well down to the hand to keep the radius in a position intermediate between pronation and supination, being the best. If the hand is left unsupported it is certain to assume the prone position, which, as a rule, is undesirable. Dislocation of this joint, except at the head of