50 CHRONIC NEPHRITIS. Symptoms and | diagnosis. On chronic nephritis. Causes. disease by itself is not a suppurative disease. Suppurative nephritis may occur as an acute affection, or as a chronic though more frequently as an acute upon a chronic. After death, a kidney thus affected may appear enlarged, with its substance more or less filled with suppurating cavities. When the inflammatory action is confined to the mucous lining of the pelvis of the organ, it is called “pyelitis.” At times, the kidney is a mere cyst or shell containing pus and broken-down tissue, and, in extreme cases, the kidney and parts around form one large sup- purating cavity. This result is not rare as a consequence of the break- ing up of tuberculous matter. Symptoms and diagnosis.—When after an injury in the loins, or in the course of some obstructive vesical or urethral disease, or calculous affection, a patient is seized with rigors, severe pain and tenderness in the lumbar region, febrile disturbance, nausea, vomiting, scanty, high- coloured, and possibly bloody urine, and irritable bladder, acute nephritis may be suspected. When rigors recur frequently and there is suppression of urine with renal casts or pus in the urine, sup- puration of the organ is to be diagnosed; and, when to these symptoms are added severe depression, anasarca, and brain symptoms passing on to coma, urmmic poisoning may safely be expected. The more free SZood-cells there are in the urine the greater are the pro- babilities of renal haemor- rhage ; the more pus, the greater the likelihood of renal disease. But chronic nephritis is a more common affection than the acute; indeed, unless from accident, the acute is generally a sequel to the chronic. Kidney disease is a common consequence of long- standing or neglected bladder or urethral mischief. When a stone has existed for any period in the bladder, and has set up inflammation of that organ; when from prostatic disease the same result ensues, or when from stricture the bladder, ureters, and kidneys have been subjected to the irritation and its consequences of distension from retained urine, the ureters become af- fected from the extension of mischief from the bladder, then, too, the pelvis of the kidney, and subsequently the secreting structure of the kid- neys themselves. Under these circumstances, every gradation Eig. 319. Ilosn. Mus.