423 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. cotton wadding; a long piece of strong paste-board about four inches wide soaked in starch must next be applied to the posterior part of the limb from the nates to the heel. If the patient be very muscular and the thigh large, this must be strengthened, especially at its upper part, by having slips of bandage pasted upon it; two narrower strips of pasteboard are now placed one along each side of the limb, from the hip to the ankle, and another shorter piece on the forepart of the thigh. A double layer of starched bandage should now he applied over the whole with a strong and well-starched spica (Fig. 517); it should be cut up and trimmed on the second or third day and then reapplied.” With such an apparatus, Erichsen has treated many fractured thighs, both in adults and children without confinement to bed for more than three or four days, and without the slightest shortening or deformity being left. The points to be especially attended to are, that the back splint be very strong at the upper part es- pecially, and that the spica be well and firmly applied so that the hip and the whole of the pelvis be immoveably fixed. Fractures of the condyles necessarily in- volve the joint, and these may be transverse, oblique or vertical (Fig. 518). In subjects under twenty-one the lower epiphysis may he separated from the shaft, thus simulat- ing a transverse fracture (Fig. 519). These cases are serious on account of the joint complication, as some stiffness of the joint generally, but not always, follows; this result depending upon the amount of inflammatory action that takes place after the injury. When the head of the tibia is fractured into the joint, the same ob- servations are applicable. In these cases the posterior splint, as suggested by Mac- Intyre (Fig. 530), is probably the best, the knee being slightly flexed. When joint complication exists, the application of ice or, probably, some leeches may be required. In exceptional instances, the upper frag- ment of bone is driven into the lower, there- by giving rise to an impacted fracture. These cases, like other impacted fractures, generally do well by simple rest. In all cases involving joints passive motion should be allowed at the end of five or six weeks. Nathan Smith, of New York, advocates the use of an anterior splint Anterior composed of a single piece of iron wire of the thickness of a No. 11 sPlinl- catheter, which is carefully bent to the inequalities of the limb and fastened to it by means of strapping and bandages, the limb being sub- sequently suspended to the ceiling by a cord connected with the wire above and below the knee, extension being made through this cord, and the counter-extension hy so raising the foot of the bed as to tilt the body towards its head (Fig. 531.) In fractures of the lower third above the condyles, where the gas- y^wer Fig. 517. Fractures of the condyles. Separation of lower epiphysis. Serious in that the joint is implicated. From Erichsen. Treatment. May be impacted.