226 SPERMATORRHOEA. Cry pi chide sor- es. misplaced testes. Sterility following disease of testes. Varied sources of sterility. had hypospadias—the orifice of the urethra in each, opening one inch behind the normal urethral opening—to be the fathers of three and four children respectively; and a third, in whom the urethral orifice was one inch behind the glans, whose wife died in childbirth. When the urethral orifice is at the base of the penis, sterility must, however, exist. When partial epispadias exists, there is no reason to believe that a man must be sterile. When both testes are misplaced—that is, when they have not de- scended into the scrotum—there is a strong probability that the organs Conditions in are badly developed, that they do not secrete healthy spermatic fluid, and that sterility co-exists. Curling asserts this very positively to be the fact, but he at the same time brings forward evidence from Messrs. Cock’s and Poland’s practice that such is not always the case. In a general way Mr. Curling may be right, but there are many exceptions Monorchides. to such a rule. When one testis is in the scrotum and healthy, there is no reason to suspect sterility. Sterility sometimes follows disease of the testes, inflammatory or otherwise; for epididymitis or inflammation of the duct of the testicle, as well as testitis or inflammation of the gland may be followed by atrophy of the organ. Gosselin, Godart, and Liegeois have laid great stress upon this; and Curling ascribes these as common causes of sterility. Sterility may also be produced by involuntary seminal emis- sions the result of excess of venery or masturbation, by producing either loss of sexual power or deterioration of semen. Stricture, or any impediment to the seminal discharge, is also another cause. The student must remember, too, that a man may be capable of sexual intercourse and be sterile from other causes. He may even have emissions in connection without seminal secretion, for the emissions may consist only of secretion from the seminal vesicles. I have known this fact illustrated in a man who had lost both his testicles from a surgical operation, and yet had sexual power as strong as ever, attended with emission. The removal of one testicle seems to interfere but little if at all with sexual power. Some years ago, I removed a testicle for cystic disease from a gentleman who had been married many years and had no child. After the operation his wife soon conceived and gave birth to a boy. In the female subject, impotency may be said to exist when the vagina is absent or obliterated. It is for a time present when the orifice is occluded by some dense membrane, or when the introduction of the male organ is prevented on account of the smallness of the orifice, by vaginismus, or the presence of a bifid vagina. Sterility is due to many causes, the occlusion of the os uteri being one, but morbid conditions of the uterus and ovaries are probably the more frequent. Testes do not The student should remember, that “the functions of the testicle, wnste from like those of the mammary gland and uterus, may be suspended for want of use. a ior)g period, possibly for life; and yet its structure may be sound and capable of being roused into activity” on any healthy stimulus. Unlike other glands, it does not waste or atrophy for want of use, the physical parts of man’s nature being accurately adapted to the necessi- ties of his position, and to his moral being. Spermatorrhoea. ton-lioe™6" This doubtless exists as a disease although rare. It consists in Impotence in the female.