TE ALE’S AMPUTATION. 5S7 enough to fall easily over the end of the bone. In selecting the struc- tures for its formation, such parts must be taken as do not contain the larger blood-vessels and nerves. A flap so formed will be, for the most part, anterior in position, as far as regards the general aspect of the body, but superior when the patient is in the recumbent position, as during the after-treatment. The short flap, containing the chief vessels and nerves, is, in length, one fourth of the other (Fig. 614). The flaps being formed, the bone sawn, and the arteries tied or twisted, the long flap is folded over the end of the bone, and each of its free angles fixed by suture to the corresponding free angle of the short flap. One or two more sutures may be required to complete the transverse line of union of the flaps, and to unite the side of the short to the corresponding portion of the long, as well as the reflected portions of the long flap to its unreflected. Thus the transverse line of union is bounded at each end by a short lateral line at right angles The surgeon should be careful in making this long anterior flap not to Caution in scarify it with his knife, more particularly whenitis chiefly skin, as in the making flaps, leg, since, on account of its length, it is very prone to slough, and if scari- fied this tendency is increased ; indeed, this sloughing of the long flap is the great disadvantage of the operation, for in an ordinary thigh, twelve inches in circumference, a flap of six inches would have to be made. To secure a cicatrix away from the extremity of a stump is a point of great practical value, and to do so by a long anterior flap is, doubtless, an advantage; but this often requires more soft parts than are generally at the surgeon’s disposal, unless more of the limb be taken away than requires removal. This object may, however, sometimes be secured by making a shorter anterior flap than Teale suggests, and dividing the bone one or two inches above the line of the skin flaps. In fact, as long as the anterior flap, whether rectan- gular or oval, is of sufficient length to be drawn over the end of the stump to its posterior aspect, the principle of Teale’s operation is observed. Mr. Spence, in his ‘ Surgery,’ 1871, p. 749, tells us that he acted i-'iG. 614. to it.”