FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 413 limb. The former form of accident is far more common than the latter, on account of the greater thinness of the posterior wall. To make out the existence of shortening of the neck of the thigh- bone and its amount, the following “ test line” may be employed. I, as well as my dressers, have used it for many years, and found it of great value; indeed, as a proof of its use I may add that twenty-four con- secutive cases of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone admitted into my wards to the end of 1877 (the average age of the patients being 74) left the hospital with union of the broken bones and useful limbs. The diagnosis of all these cases had been made by means of the test line I Fig. 503. The ilio-femoral rectangle A C B. C B test line for fracture or shortening of the neck of the thigh-bone. now describe, and with the gentlest manipulation. (‘ Lancet,’ January 22nd, 1876.) For purposes of demonstration I have described it as the base of the ilio-femoral triangle (C B, Fig. 503), the two sides of the triangle being made up of two lines drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, one of them, A C, being vertical, and traversing the outside of the hip to the horizontal plane of the body; and the second, A B, impinging on the tip of the trochanter major and corresponding in the normal condition of the hip-joint to the anterior half of Nekton’s test line for dislocation of the head of the femur backwards. The “ test-line ” C B for fracture or shortening of the neck, joins the two at right angles to the vertical line, and extends from it to the trochanter. Any shortening of this line, on comparing it with the same taken on the uninjured side, indicates with precision a shortening of the neck of the thigh-bone ; and, when the shortening has followed at once upon an injury, fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, impacted or otherwise, is certain. Compared with this line, all other measure- ments are uncertain. By its use, manipulations of the injured limb are often rendered unnecessary. For practical purposes, the vertical line A C and the test line C B are alone required. To compare the two sides of the body it is neces- sary to see that the pelvis is straight. The symptoms thus described, taken as a whole, may be looked upon as pathognomonic of an impacted fracture; for, although there are other injuries to the hip-joint which may give rise separately to many of the symptoms detailed, there are none in which all or most are Test line for fracture. Statistics. Ilio-femoral triangle. Its formation. Its use. Sources of fallacy.