29G AFFECTIONS OF THE MUSCLES AND TENDONS. Atrophy of muscle. From infantile paralysis. Progressive muscular atrophy. Pathology. Symptoms. Atrophy of Muscle. The surgeon can see this under a great variety of circumstances. He is the most familiar with it as a consequence of want of use in disease of the joints, or any other affection in which the limb is kept at rest; and under these circumstances the muscles simply waste ; they undergo no other change in structure, and are capable of complete restoration on re-assuming their normal action. In a large number of cases of infantile paralysis, the same thing may also be said, for under the stimulus of galvanism or the continuous current, persevered in for many months, the thinnest limbs plump up, and the feeblest muscles become capable of performing the work for which they were intended. Indeed, in these cases where deformity does not complicate the case a good result may be looked for. After fevers, however, lead poisoning, rheumatism, scrivener’s palsy, and alcoholism, the muscles may undergo genuine degeneration, either granular, fatty, or waxy, and according to Lockhart Clarke “ there is another form of this malady, which is known by the name of progressive muscular atrophy (Cruveilhier), atrophie musculaire graisseuse pro- gressive (Duchenne), and wasting palsy. This curious disease differs in several respects from the other atrophies. It is always chronic, but of uncertain duration, is frequently hereditary, capricious or irregular in its invasion, prone to spread from one part to another, or become general, and thus go on to a fatal termination. The affected muscles suffer different degrees of wasting, and assume a variety of aspects. Even in the same muscle bundles in different stages of atrophy and degeneration may be found at the side of others that have retained their normal state. When the wasting is extreme in all the bundles, a long muscle may be reduced to a mere fibrous and cylindrical cord, or to a kind of tendon, and a flat muscle may be reduced in the same manner to a kind of membrane. In some instances the atrophy may be simple, that is, the muscular tissue may be wasted to a considerable degree without any granular or fatty degeneration; but generally one or both of these alterations of structure is found to exist to a greater or less extent. The muscle also changes and varies in colour, according to the nature and degree of the atrophy. It is paler than natural; occasionally it is quite colourless, like the flesh of fish, or it may have a faint yellow or ochreous tint. Its consistence for the most part is increased in consequence of the increase in the interfibrillar connective tissue. When examined under the microscope the affected muscles may be seen to have lost, to a variable extent and degree, or even entirely, the appearance of transverse and longitudinal striation, while in a corresponding proportion the sarcous or muscular element is trans- formed into granules, which in some instances are too fine to be dis- tinguished as separate particles. The granules are soluble in acetic acid. In this odd affection the granular, fatty, and waxy degenerations are found side by side ” (‘ Holmes’s Syst.,’ 2nd ed., vol. iii). This disease is said to appear more commonly in the hand and right upper extremity, progressing upwards to the trunk, and then over it to the lower extremities. It rarely commences in the lower limbs. It begins with loss of power in the part, but rarely with any loss of sensation, this symptom gradually increasing. Want of muscular co- ordination soon appears, as well as awkwardness in the patient’s move-