266 DIAGNOSIS OF OVARIAN TUMOURS. Percussion. Possibilities of case. Value of resonance. Pelvic examination. The surgeon should then proceed to percuss the parts, doing this at first superficially and then deeply. He should also examine for fluctua- tion ; asking himself during the whole examination the following questions—Is this abdominal enlargement due to tympanitis or some phantom—that is, muscular—tumour ? Is it due to, or complicated with pregnancy, or is it uterine or ovarian disease ? Can it be a hydatid, renal cyst, or an enlarged viscus such as spleen or kidney ? Is it a cancerous tumour P A fluctuating tumour rising from the pelvis in a central position yielding a dull note on superficial as well as on deep percussion, with epigastric and lumbar resonance, is probably a cystic ovarian growth, and, when the tumour fluctuates in all directions, as is proved by the peculiar thrill of the wave elicited on percussion, the growth is probably unilocular or monocystic. When the tumour has an irregular or botryoidal outline, and fluctuation is confined to parts, it is certainly compound, the degrees of solidity in a compound or multilocular tumour varying greatly. If the tumour seem to be a unilocular or monocystic growth, the surgeon must remember that ovarian tumours of this kind are comparatively rare, and that those which appear to be such often contain some intracystic growths. He should also know that purely unilocular cysts are probably broad ligament cysts or par- ovarian, that is, a cystic degeneration of the tubules of the Wolffian body, although multilocular parovarian tumours have been recorded. If the tumour be clearly cystic and multilocular, the probabilities are that it is ovarian, and if more solid than cystic, uterine. Uterine and ovarian tumours yield a dull note on deep percussion, and, as in these cases the intestines are pushed upwards and towards the loins, these regions are consequently resonant, and no alteration in the position of the patient will alter this fact. In ascites, with the shoulders of the patient raised, the lower portion of the abdomen may likewise yield a dull sound, but with the shoulders depressed and the hips raised, resonance will be made out, the bowels naturally floating on the surface of the ascitic liquid. In ascites, the central portion of the abdomen is resonant and the sides dull, whereas in ovarian dropsy it is the reverse. When the intestines, however, are matted together from cancerous or old peritoneal disease, difficulties occur, and errors in diagnosis can only be avoided by going carefully into the clinical history of the case and by a pelvic examination. In ovarian disease a friction sound may be detected at times on aus- cultation or on the application of the hand, while in ascites no such symptom will be present. On the Diagnostic Value of a Pelvic Examination in Ovarian Disease. The diagnosis of an ovarian tumour can hardly ever be said to be complete until a pelvic examination by means of the finger and uterine sound has been made, and the combined examination between the abdominal wall and rectum, for which purpose the patient had better be placed on her side. When the uterus is found to be in front of and distinct from the abdominal tumour and moveable without it, the growth is piobably ovarian.