INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER. 61 well as its own ineffectual attempts to evacuate its contents. A similar result likewise ensues when the bladder is paralysed from over-disten- sion, spinal injury, or disease, and is unable to expel its contents, and under these circumstances the more acute forms of the disease and the i worst pathological conditions are found. Subacute cystitis is commonly the result of gonorrhoea, the inflam- i mation of the urethra spreading to the bladder. The seat of the inflammation is the mucous membrane, which becomes ; rough, covered with flakes of adherent lymph and phosphatic secre- tion, thickened, and at times ulcerated, and, in the acute forms of the affection, detached in fragments or as a whole, and thrown off as a slough. This latter condition is generally met with in the bladder of the paralytic, and is probably as much due to the deficiency of nerve supply as to the intensity of the inflammatory mischief, rough cathe- terism having often too much to do with it. In chronic cases, the walls of the bladder become greatly hyper- ' trophied from over-action, thick muscular bands being visible, and, I where the obstruction to the exit of the urine has been of long stand- ing, this thickening of the walls of the bladder is associated with its dilatation. Under these circumstances, it is common to meet with sac- cular dilatations of the mucous membrane, the mucous lining of the bladder becoming pressed outwards as a hernia between the bands of ) muscular tissue forming • t the walls of the organ. Fig. 320. These pouches are usu- ally small, though in ex- i ceptional cases (as seen in Pig. 320) they may be [double the size of the i bladder itself. Into one i of these pouches a stone j may occasionally fall and rest, thereby becom- ing encysted. At times these sacculi are mul- tiple. Symptoms. — When the disease is subacute, ;he symptoms are irri- tability of bladder and inability to retain urine, the desire to pass water being often associated with its uncontrollable passage. The act of micturition is attended with pain, and followed by straining, blood being frequently squeezed out by the forcible con- traction of the organ. Pain is mostly present above the pubes, in the perinaeum and penis, often over the sacrum and in the groin. With these local symptoms, there may be those of more or less severe febrile disturbance. Seat of cystitis. Condition of bladder in chronic cystitis. Sacculated bladder. O/eening s ’Bladder Urethra Symptoms of cystitis Sacculated bladder. Prep. 208775, Guy’s Hosp. Mus. The urine will be found to vary in character according to tbe cause Condition of of the disease. hen it has originated from the extension of a gonor- urine, rhceal inflammation of the urethra, it will be cloudy from the presence of mucus, or even of pus, and at times stained with blood, this blood having been passed during the act of straining at the end of micturition.