EPIDIDYMITIS. 196 Epididymitis. Generally acute. Complica- tions. Orchitis. posterior and outer part of the testicle, and the secreting portion or true gland, the anterior; that the former in a perfectly healthy state is only indistinctly felt, the vas deferens on being traced downwards from the cord losing itself as it were in this part. The body of the gland can always be made out by its smooth and elastic globular form. On Epididymitis, or Inflammation of the Seminal Duct. Inflammation of the epididymis may be caused by some local inguinal injury, or the pressure of a truss, but as a rule it is a consecutive affec- tion, and occurs in association with gonorrhoea, or as the result of some irritation of the prostatic urethra, such as the presence of a calculus, or the passage of a sound or lithotrite. It is due to an ex- tension of inflammation from the urethra down the vas deferens to the epididymis, and is an inflammation of the seminal duct and not of the seminal gland. It generally comes on suddenly, and is attended with considerable pain; a marked enlargement of the epididymis or posterior part of the testicle forming its chief local symptom. It is constantly preceded by severe pain in the anal and iliac fossae, and accompanied by special tenderness of the part, this tenderness being readily traceable up the cord, which is occasionally swollen and cede- matous. It is usually attended with oedema and redness of the scrotum over the inflamed tube. The enlargement of the epididymis is very rapid, and in some instances very great. It invariably assumes a special outline when uncomplicated, that is, when confined to this special part, the epi- didymis appearing of a boat or truncated half-moon shape, holding the body of the testicle in its concavity. The lower portion of this body is usually the most enlarged, being composed of the greater number of the convolutions of the tubes, and consequently containing more con- nective tissue, since it is from the infiltration with inflammatory effusion of this connective tissue around the inflamed seminal duct that this enlargement is produced. The affection generally is acute, comes on suddenly, runs a rapid course, and is accompanied in most patients by some constitu- tional disturbance. In some subjects this is very severe, while in others it is of a milder description, the sharpness of the inflammation and the peculiarity of the patients influencing the severity. It is at times, however, complicated with other conditions, such as an inflammation of the true secreting portion of the testicle, but this complication invariably occurs as a secondary symptom, and is pro- duced by the direct extension of the disease from the seminal duct to the gland. I have never seen a genuine orchitis or inflammation of the seminal gland as a result of gonorrhoea, except as an extension of the inflammation from the epididymis, and it is in quite exceptional examples of this affection that the body of the testicle Lis ever involved. When the gland itself is inflamed, the diagnosis is readily made, the enlargement and great tenderness of the part clearly indicating what is the matter. The whole organ presents an expanded but flattened aspect, the swelling of the epididymis posteriorly, and of the body of the testis anteriorly producing this peculiar laterally flattened outline. The two inflamed parts will, however, be always felt distinct from each other, and can be readily distinguished. There is, however, a