422 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Dp Morgan's plan. In infants. Vertical extension. Immoveable bandage. place, to sit up without affecting the thigh-bone. Mr. C. de Morgan, of the Middlesex Hospital, applies the extension to the fractured limb by means of a force carried from the foot through a pedal cross-bar to a long splint applied to the opposite one (Fig. 515). This splint is good for fracture as well as for disease or for excision of the hip-joint. Sir W. Fergusson was wont to apply his counter- extension from a strong stay of jean, carefully fitted to the upper third of the opposite thigh, from which a band extended in front and behind to the upper end of the splint, thus doing away with the perineal pad. During the application of the long splint, steady traction should he maintained on the injured limb by a competent assistant. When muscular spasm is severe, some surgeons have advised temporary pressure on the femoral artery in the groin. It is said to stop the spasm in all cases, and whenever I have tried it, it answered well. In infants and children under three years of age fractures of the thigh are treated with difficulty, for any immoveable apparatus is constantly dirtied from urine, faeces, &c., and requires to be changed, and the good that would otherwise be experienced is thus neutralised. On this account Paget and Callender have treated, within the last few years, many cases of fracture of the thigh in children, without splints, all apparatus being dispensed with, “the child being laid on a firm bed, with the broken limb, after setting it, bent at the hip and knee and laid on its outer side.” (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' 1867.) I do not recommend this practice, but would advise instead that the injured limb of the child, together with the sound one, he flexed at a right angle with the pelvis, fixed by some light splint and hoisted upwards to a cradle, hook, or bar above the bed (Fig. 516). By these means, the weight of the body acts as a constant counter-extending force, the child can he well looked to for purposes of cleanliness, and a good result may be expected. At Guy’s, we have had excellent results from this practice. Splints of gutta percha, felt, or leather may be used with the weights when they can be applied; some immoveable apparatus being adjusted after the second week; indeed, in some cases this immoveable apparatus may be applied at once, care being taken that the limb is kept well extended during its applica- tion and setting. The Bavarian flannel splint is the best (Fig. 476). In adults also, after the fourth week, this same immoveable apparatus may be employed with advantage, the patient gaining greater freedom. Some surgeons think so well of this plan as to advise its use in fracture of the thigh from the very first. Erichsen, its ablest advocate, says (‘ Science and Art of Surgery,’ p. 225), “ The starched bandage may be em- ployed in most cases. The limb should be evenly and thickly enveloped in a layer of Fig. 516. a child treated by ver- tical extension.