97 STONE IN THE BLADDER. irritation, and secreting much ropy mucus. The irritation and the secretion of mucus diminish as the operations are performed, and nearly cease before the whole of the calculus has been removed. These cases certainly require much caution in their management ; still they are by no means those in which lithotrity is to be rejected. When renal disease can be made out as existing, lithotrity is no more favorable an operation than lithotomy ; when associated with bladder complications, the cutting operation is probably the right one to adopt, even if only as a means of giving relief, although, when the stone is small and the renal symptoms uncertain, lithotrity may be undertaken with success. When the surgeon, however, on passing an instrument into the Fergusson’s bladder finds the urethra narrow and irritable, “ the neck of the views, bladder and mucous membrane particularly sensitive, the prostate somewhat large and so firm in substance that it has been difficult to pass a sharp-curved instrument; the bladder disposed to throw off its fluid contents; the stone large, perhaps more than one, and possibly withal an irritable temperament and a want of moral and physical courage, it is to me,” writes Fergusson (* Lect. on Prog, of Surg.,’ 1867), “ very doubtful if the operation of lithotrity should be re- sorted to;” although, he adds, “ it is remarkable how, in some, these conditions become modified by care and preliminary manipulative treatment.” Paralysis of the bladder does not positively preclude the practice of when lithotrity, though it necessitates extra care and gentleness in mani- paralysis of pulation, and may require the mechanical removal of the fragments by Judder, a scoop or Clover’s apparatus. (Fig. 319a.) An enlarged prostate, unless when mechanically interfering with the introduction of the instrument, is by enlarged no means an insuperable bar to lithotrity. prostate. “Formerly,” wrote Aston Key (1837, ‘Guy’s Reports’), “patients Key’s labouring under calculous disorders entertained a feeling of dread, f'.e[,lark3 011 almost amounting to horror, at the idea of having a stone in the bladder, andn™1 But since the introduction of lithotrity they no longer entertain the advantages, dread of their symptoms depending on the presence of a stone, and when the stone is found they cheerfully make up their minds to undergo an operation, which they regard as free from danger, and nearly so from pain. 1 have known a patient, and more than one, to be pleased with the discovery of a stone in the bladder, convinced, as he expressed it, that he could look for an easy cure from the new operation. The exaggerated statements of the advantages of lithotrity have, thus, not been unattended with good; they have been the means of inducing persons to come forward to obtain relief when the disease was incipient and the stone small. Since the introduction of lithotrity the surgeon examines the bladder with great care, knowing the importance of°dis- covering the calculus at the earliest period. The early symptoms of stone are thus watched with more jealousy on the part of the surgeon, and are not so scrupulously concealed by the patient. The advantages of an early knowledge of the existence of a stone, and of prompt measures for its removal, are known to both. The result of this is, that patients apply tor advice when the stone is small, the bladder uninjured by its pre- sence, and the kidneys free from disease. Tu three persons out of four who apply for advice for symptoms of calculus, the size of the stone VOL. II. 7