142 PEIUNEAL SECTION. Continuation of Cock’s description. and if the state of the urine renders ablution necessary the viscus may be frequently washed out. The canula may then be removed, cleansed, and reintroduced. A flexible catheter is sometimes more desirable and congenial to the feelings of the patient than a metallic canula. “ If the previous destruction has not been very great, and if the case progresses favourably, the swelling of the perinaeum and scrotum gradually subsides, the induration disappears, and the urinary sinuses become obliterated. The urethra may then be examined in the ordi- nary way, to test its permeability, and one may be agreeably surprised to find that the sound or catheter readily passes through the former stricture until it strikes against the canula. An attempt may then be made to introduce a flexible catheter into the bladder, and its passage may, if necessary, be facilitated by passing a director through the perinaeum into the bladder, and guiding the catheter along its groove. The urethra, once restored to its normal condition and calibre, the artificial opening through the perinaeum soon heals up, and, barring the liability of stricture to return if not attended to, the cure may be said to be complete. “ We must not, however, always expect so favourable a result. I have operated in several cases where the obstruction of the canal was complete, and impermeability permanent.” “ In such cases the patient is condemned to pass his water through the artificial opening in the periiueum, unless a new passage should be bored to unite the upper and lower portions of the patient’s urethra— an operation which I have seldom or never known to be successful.” “ The necessity of micturating through the perinaeum may seem to be a considerable hardship, but with a little arrangement the incon- venience is not very great; and be it remembered that the man’s micturition is merely assimilated to that of the other sex. “ To keep the artificial passage in a permeable state it is generally necessary to pass a flexible bougie through the opening occasionally, and to retain it in sit'd for a few hours. The patient very soon learns to do this for himself. “ I have now under my frequent observation two men, on one of whom I operated twenty-five years ago, on the other twenty; and both are thankful for their condition. “I have not found this operation, with its result, in a permanent factitious urethra, at all interferes with the sexual function, although it is, of course, a complete bar to procreation.” I have described fully this admirable operation in the words of its originator, and believe it to be the only form of perineal section that ought to be performed in an impervious urethra. It is not suffi- ciently known. In exceptional cases the surgeon may examine the urethra itself with the view to find a passage through it; and for this purpose, use as a guide to its distal end, a grooved staff introduced through the penis down to the obstruction; the two sides of the urethra being held well apart by forceps, or as suggested by Avery a loop of silk introduced through each edge of the divided urethra. If the surgeon be fortunate enough to slip a fine grooved director through, the stricture will be readily divided. Under these circumstances a catheter should be passed through the penis into the bladder, and the one which had been introduced through the perinaeum withdrawn. I