ON OVARIOTOMY. 286 Caution. Treatment of the wound. Should the peritoneum be included f Drainage tubes. After- treatment. Morphia suppository. Diet. I Value of ice. Catbeterism. however, should always be carefully employed when there has been any escape of mucus or other thick ovarian fluid, and when much blood has been effused; indeed, in those cases, much care is required to cleanse the pelvis and abdominal cavity from all such irritating materials. The number of sponges and forceps employed should always be counted before and after the operations for obvious reasons. Treatment of the Wound.—The operation completed, the pelvis cleansed, the opposite ovary examined, and all signs of hemorrhage absent, the surgeon may then proceed to the closure of the wound. He should do this by means of deep and superficial sutures, and he may use silk or silver sutures according to fancy. In my early operations I preferred silver sutures which I have now discarded, as I do not find them less irritating than silk, and, in their removal, they are more liable to scratch and tear the tissues through which they are drawn than the fine white plait, sold by fishing-tackle makers, which I am now in the habit of employing. These sutures should be inserted at intervals of an inch, and include the muscles, and peritoneum; inter- mediate superficial sutures being inserted through the skin. When union has taken place, they should be removed, any time between three and six days being suitable. When repair has taken place, no object is gained by leaving them in situ ; they are then foreign bodies, and should be removed. Drainage tubes.—In all complicated cases where the peritoneum has been much involved and there is a probability of hsemorrliage or serous exudation, the introduction of a drainage tube at the lower angle of the wound should be followed. One made of glass is better than the india rubber. The after-treatment. Whenever a patient has taken chloroform or any anaesthetic mix- ture, it is wise to keep the stomach as quiet as possible, and as the benefit of an opiate after the operation is always great, it is wise to administer it by the rectum. In abdominal operations, this prac- tice is of great value, and, for some years, I have been accustomed to give a half grain of morphia suppository after every ovarian operation, as well as after others of hernia, ruptured perineeum, &c. Tiie suppository should be administered before the patient has recovered from the effects of the anaesthetic, and care should be taken that it be passed well into the rectum. If pain appear, the suppository may be repeated, but it is rarely necessary to administer it more than once a day, at bedtime. The patient’s room should be kept cool and airy, as in other cases of operation. For the first two days, milk or barley water form generally the chief diet; but should sickness super- vene as a result of chloroform, ice and milk, or ice and soda water should be administered; and everything should be cold. If it con- tinues, food ought to be given two or three times a day by the rectum. As soon as the stomach will admit, fresh meat, brandy, and wine ought carefully to be given, the object being in these cases, as in all others of general surgery, after the first three days, to keep up the powers of the patient, and so enable nature to complete the cure. The appli- cation of an ice bag to the abdomen I have found of great advantage, and an ice cap to the head when the temperature rises. The urine ought to be drawn off periodically by the catheter, and when the bowels require relief, their action should be rendered easy by the use