188 HYDROCELE. May excite inflammation in certain cases. The operation a most simple one. Treatment of hydrocele of cord. Treatment of diffused form. hand, and the canula withdrawn, a little cold air or the irritation of the finger generally causing sufficient contraction of the dartos to close the wound and preventing haemorrhage or any further escape of the remain- ing fluid. A piece of lint, however, may be applied over the puncture for purposes of cleanliness and to prevent friction. In certain examples of this disease in the adult, I have been induced to stir up the cyst as I have described in the hydrocele of the young, and have met with some success. In no instance has any evil consequence resulted from the practice, and in several, a cure has taken place, evi- dently from inflammation. I would advise this practice to be confined, however, to young adults. As a palliative practice it is scarcely neces- sary to recommend any other than that described, as it is simple, more efficacious than any other, and uot more dangerous. Acu- puncture has been advised, but it has no practical advantage over the simple tapping, and it is certainly less successful in its result. In exceptional cases it may be good, particularly in such a case as Mr. Curling has described on the authority of Mr. Luke, of a gentleman who was about to proceed to a part of the world where surgical advice could not be secured, and where the patient could then perform this simple operation on himself. I have even known a patient to tap himself. The period of relief which a patient experiences from a simple tapping varies exceedingly from a few weeks to many years; and even in the same patient the interval will be found to vary from time to time. In the young and middle-aged adult, when the general health is sound and a return of the effusion has taken place, unless any personal ob- jection should be made, it is generally advisable to adopt some plan for a more permanent cure. In old men it is the soundest practice to rest satisfied with the palliative treatment; and in such the radical cure should be proposed only in exceptional cases. Treatment of hydrocele of the cord.—The principles of treatment w'hich have been laid down in cases of hydrocele of the testis are like- wise applicable to those of hydrocele of the cord, their application requiring only such modifications as may be demanded by the altered position of the affection. In the congenital hydrocele, no special treat- ment is required, because, as strength comes to the child, the fluid probably will be re-absorbed, and failing this result, tonics should be given to expedite the cure, and cold lotion applied such as the chloride of ammonium with vinegar, 5j to Oj. In the diffused or encysted hydrocele of the child or adult, more active treatment is frequently demanded, though not in all cases; the fluid will at times disappear without treatment, though it may recur at a later date; still the affection ceases to trouble, and, unless some real inconvenience is produced by its presence, it is as well to leave things alone. When, however, pain or iuconvenience is ex- perienced, something must be done, and no doubt the best prac- tice is to evacuate the fluid. In small, tense, encysted hydroceles, the practice of evacuating the fluid by acupuncture is certainly sound, since tapping by the trocar and canula is an operation of some difficulty where the cyst is small. It may be done with any needle, but those employed for cataract are probably the best, and several openings should be made. Tapping may be employed as in any other case of ordinary hydrocele. I have used on several occasions with success