AMPUTATION AT THE THIGH. 597 before the second flap is made, or, it may be divided and twisted. 'I he vessels can then be secured in the way the surgeon proposes, and the parts brought together, the two flaps usually forming an excellent covering to the acetabulum. The wound being an antero-posterior one, and therefore good for drainage, a good scar results. This operation I believe to be better than the anterior and posterior Usual mode, flap usually advised, and which is thus described by Erichsen :—“ It the operation be on the left side, the knife (twelve inches long) should be entered about two fingers’ breadth below the anterior spine of the ilium, and carried deeply in the limb behind the vessels directly across the joint, its point being made to issue just above the tuberosity of the ischium. In transfixing on this side care must be taken not to wound the scrotum or the opposite thigh ; the back of the knife must run parallel to, but not against, the pelvis, and the point must not be held too high, lest it enter the obturator foramen. The anterior flap must then be rapidly cut downwards and forwards about five inches in length. The limb must now be forcibly abducted and everted, the capsule of the joint opened. So soon as this is done, the head of the femur must be pushed up by forcibly depressing and abducting the limb, so that it may start out of the acetabulum; the heel of the knife is then passed behind it, the remainder of the capsule cut across, and the posterior flap rapidly fashioned by carrying the knife downwards and backwards through the thick muscles in this situation; the posterior flap may be about four inches long.” The operation is then Good to be completed as the former. In both these operations good assistants assistants are needed to compress the bleeding vessels as they are divided, for hse- nee. • morrhage and the shock of the operation are the great evils to be feared. Lister’s compressor, however, has rendered this serious operation safer than it was. Amputation at the Thigh. Primary amputations of the thigh, taken as a whole, are very serious, it3 and calculating cases at all ages more than half die. In subjects under mortality, twenty years of age, however, better results can be recorded, the mor- tality being about half this amount; whilst in those over forty, the average is worse, age having here, as elsewhere, a striking influence on results. Primary amputations, however, in the upper third of the thigh are more fatal than those in the middle; and these again are more fatal than amputations above the knee, amputations through the condyles or at the knee-joint being better than all. The nearer the operation approaches the body the greater is the risk. Still, even in the worst cases of compound fracture of the thigh, when death seems inevitable, the surgeon should operate, when, by so doing, any reasonable hope of saving life can be entertained. In amputations for diseases a better account can be given. In amputation of the thigh for chronic joint disease at all ages, the Statistics, mortality is about 1 in 4, but under the age of twenty, 1 in 17; while over that period it is 1 in 3, the difference in the mortality of the operation at the two periods being very great. Thus, taking all cases of chronic disease together, out of 89 of my own, 13 died; of 99 of Callender’s. 28; of 54 of MacCormac’s (‘Dublin Journal,’ 1868), 10; and of 106 of Holmes’s, 30; making a total of 348 cases, of Effects of «?e which 81 died, or 1 in 4. In subjects under twenty years of age, out 011 mortality.