STONE IN THE BLADDER. 95 indicate that uric acid and cystine, under certain circumstances, are capable of solution in the bladder, by means of alkaline salts adminis- tered by the mouth, at a rate which admits of practical application ; and that in picked cases a solvent treatment deserves to be resolutely tried.” He adds, however, “that the solvent treatment is only applicable in those cases of vesical calculi in which the urine is acid, the stone not large, its composition known to be uric acid, or strongly suspected to he such.” The best solvents are the acetate or citrate of potash, sufficient doses being given to make the urine neutral, not alkaline. Brodie showed that the injection into the bladder of a solution of Injections nitric acid, two or three minims to the ounce of water, had the power bladder, of dissolving phosphatic calculi; and, upon this suggestion, other ex- perimenters have tried other fluids, such as weak alkaline solutions for uric acid calculi, carbonate of lithia, borax, and acetate of lead, &c.; but there is this great disadvantage in the practice, that the solutions are apt to irritate the bladder and thus do more harm than good. In the uric acid and oxalate of lime calculi, they are almost useless. In the phosphatic stones, most surgeons admit the value of the practice, a solution of diluted nitric acid, 5ij to a pint of water, injected into a bladder where phosphates are being deposited being of great value in many cases. Such a practice must, however, be carried out with great caution. The aid of the galvanic battery has been employed to break up stones Galvanic by Dr. Bence Jones, Sir W. O’Shaughnessy, and others; but the success battery, attending the experiments has not been sufficient to warrant the recom- mendation of the means. Small stones may often he washed out of the bladder by means of Small calculi the urine; and patients who are prone to the passage of renal calculi m.ay Pass into the bladder, and to the formation of lithic acid or other gravel, ]|treain t"uH should be directed once a day, when the full bladder is about to discharge its contents, to arrest the flow of urine by holding the penis, and then suddenly to allow the stream to flow; in this way the water passing with a rush, carries away any small stone or sand that might be resting in the bladder. I have known this practice to be followed by good success. Old men should do this on their hands and knees. When a stone is too large to pass in this way, it must be removed, which is to be done by means of lithotomy or lithotrity. Lithotomy or Lithotrity in cases of Stone. Stone in the bladder in children may safely be treated by lithotomy. Lithotomy in It ought to be performed as soon as a stone has been detected in the children.' bladder, for the dangers of any individual case can be fairly measured by the size of the stone and the duration of the symptoms. The longer a calculus has existed, the greater are the probabilities of renal disease complicating the case; and the dangers of lithotomy, indepen- dently of its own special risks, are mostly due to the kidney' affection. When the stone is large, the neck of the bladder may be so injured as to set up a fatal peritonitis, and haemorrhage may, in exceptional cases, cause death; but in skilful hands, the operation of lithotomy, in patients under puberty, is most successful. Sir W. Fergusson informs us, in his College Lectures, that out of fifty Statistics cases of lithotomy in children, he lost only two. In my own prac- favo«rable.