48i EXCIISON AND AMPUTATION IN JOINT DISEASE. 1,! ’ lfc w,e11 not t0 encroach upon the epiphysial cartilage, in dividing the bone, care is required not to strip off the periosteum above the line of section. When the surfaces are not healthy or they do not come together iu a straight line, another section may be made, it being a point of primary importance that a perfect adjustment of the bones should be secured. To aid this, the osseous suture, as first employed by Gurdon Buck, and practised by Nelaton and some English surgeons is to be recommended. All bleeding ou^ht to be arrested by ligature or torsion of the vessels or by cold affusions (a point much insisted on by Prof. Humphry) and the parts brought well together by sutures, some immoveable apparatus being adjusted before the patient is taken from the operating table. The splint I prefer Sw for 18 *he °n? fi"'lI.'ed below as used by my colleague, Mr. Howse. It is adjustment. made or tinned iron, and the limb is fixed in it by a waxed bandage. . • P- Heron Watson employs with the plaster of Paris an anterior iron suspension rod. Salter’s swing is an invaluable adjunct. Fig. 560. Humphry's method. Splint for excision of the knee. Fig. 1. Splint; Z, sliding bar; X, foot piece. Fig. 2. Limb fixed in splint after operation ; A, mattress; B, water-bed with pipe (C); D, waxed bandage ; It, longitudinal band to support heel fixed by strapping (E); H, band to sup- port Bplint; G, pillow. Dr. Humphry first fixes the limb upon a posterior splint and foot- piece, then uniting the edges of the wound by sutures, he applies well- padded long splints to the sides of the limb, the wound being left exposed. “ I am very particular,” he writes (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ vol. lii), “ to adjust things well and firmly in the first instance, and am very unwilling to disturb the limb afterwards. Indeed, I frequently do not remove any of the bandages or splints for five, six, or more weeks, and by this care and perfect quiet I endeavour to promote immediate union. This perfect quiet and abstinence from removal of the ban- dages first applied is, I consider, a very important item in the treat- ment. It is equally important not to discontinue the splints till the