ON OVARIAN DISEASE AND OVARIOTOMY. 269 Skoldberg of Stockholm, and Atlee of America, with Hutchinson, and (possibly the present writer, have by successes fairly overcome all pre- judices, and rendered the operation an established and accepted one. Without going into the details of statistics which are now no more needed in this thau in other large operations, it may be confidently Successful in asserted, that the operation is not placed in too favourable a light when two out of it is said to be successful in 2 out of every 3 cases, good, bad, and lhree cases- indifferent, and in at least 3 out of 4 selected cases. Mr. Spencer Wells informs us as the result of his unrivalled experience, that out of his 900 cases 221 or 24'5 per cent, died, and T. Keith lost only 33 out of 200 cases (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June 26, 1875). Having thus decided that the operation of ovariotomy is justifiable Points for under some circumstances, and desirable under others, it may be well to £j™81<iera‘ consider what those circumstances are, under which it should be under- taken, and what are the best cases adapted for its successful practice. Are all examples of ovarian disease to be treated by extirpatiou ?— if not, which should be selected, and at what period of the progress of the disease should the operation be performed ? What cases are to be selected for operation ?—The very statement of Se,ection of this question would seem to imply, that the operation of ovariotomy is {br operation not suitable in all cases of ovarian disease, and that there are some to which it is quite inapplicable, since choice implies selection, and, as a consequence, variety, which leads us to consider what are the dif- ferent forms of ovarian disease P For surgical purposes it is sufficient ( to divide all cases into the simple and compound cysts, the former i being composed of one cavity only, the latter of many, solid material being almost always present, though varying in amount. In the simple or monocystic ovarian tumours when the diagnosis is In clear, other plans of treatment than ovariotomy are, doubtless, open to monocystic the surgeon, and among these the treatment by injection of iodine, injection of which in the hands of different men has had variable success stands iodine, foremost. M. Boinet says that out of forty-five patients suffering from this disease, thirty-one were cured, five had relapses, and nine died. Sir J. Simpson performed it in about twenty cases with good success, only one case dying; while Dr. Tyler Smith found that out of ten cases in which this practice was followed two only were satisfactory, and two died. Dr. West in eight cases had one cured. Still, this plan of treatment is uncertain; it may cure in excep- Injection tional cases, and does not generally meet with much favour; but in un(rcrtain the majority it does no good, and may even be followed by a fatal from'danger result. It is applicable only to simple cases of monocystic disease, and is quite inapplicable and useless in the multilocular tumour, and where much solid growth exists. A similar ovarian cyst uncomplicated with the development of Monocysts smaller cysts within its walls, and uuassociated with any solid growth, unc<mipli- is unquestionably a somewhat rare affection. Such cysts are, however* cated are occasionally found, and examples have fallen under my own observation* ^ but they are not common. The majority of cysts, even those which* appear to be simple, possessing the remarkable power of reproducing other cysts within their walls, aud being, as Sir J. Paget originally described them, proliferous cysts. The majority of the pure unilocular cysts are broad ligament cysts or parovarian, and in them a cure occasionally follows a simple tapping.