503 DISEASES OP THE BONES. which exfoliated from the tibia after an acute periostitis. Fig. 571 represents a sequestrum, the result of an endostitis, osteomyelitis or ostitis (for all these terms are synonymous) surrounded by a shell of bone newly formed by the periosteum ; while Fig. 572 illustrates the appearance of the limb so affected, taken from life, with the sinuses open leading from the surface of the limb through the soft parts of the shell of new bone to the sequestrum. Fig. 573 represents a bone which died, nearly as a whole, from in- Death of flammation of both membranes, and upon the upper surface of which Fig. 673. fane, faneet/h Per iosteum dead lorn tfeur fane beneath Periosteum. Necrosis of the shaft of the tibia. Prep. 124865. no new bone formed, the periosteum having been completely destroyed; although at the lower part, where the membrane was sound, bone has been renewed. Death of the bone or necrosis, is not, however, the inevitable result of all inflammation, not even of an acute suppurative inflammation. In chronic cases, other changes occur, • which are well seen in the articular extremities of the long bones, or spongy bones. They may be described as follows, quoting my own words, written in 1859 (on diseases of joints):—In the earliest condition, simple vascularity will be the principal morbid appearance, the cancelli containing more serum than natural; but as the disease advances, the bone becomes larger than natural, this enlargement, in some cases, being very great. Upon making a section of the bone, the saw will break through its structure more easily than in a healthy specimen, its earthy constituents having diminished; and on comparing the structure of the diseased with a healthy bone it will be observed that its cancelli are much enlarged, and the columns radiate from the shaft in a palm-like fashion, as if they had been spread out from downward pressure. When the inflam- matory process is of a tolerably healthy character, parts of the bone will appear denser and more indurated than the remainder, from the organization of the inflammatory deposit, this deposit in bone always becoming osseous; frequently, however, the death of the bone, with a small or large sequestrum, or a local or diffused abscess, is the result. If the denser portion of bone forming the shell is examined, it will be found thinner than natural, and appear as if it had been dilated, in some cases crackling on firm pressure. Where the articular extremity joins the shaft some new "bone may be detected, thrown out as it were to support its dilated body. The articulating surfaces of the bones will in some parts appear more vascular than normal; whilst in other more advanced cases, portions having been thrown off like a slough, will be found loose and lying in the joint, the denser portions of bonej Chronic changes hone undergoes lit inflammation. Comparison of diseased and health) bone.