LITHOTOMY. 114 Guide for forceps. Introduction of forceps. Forceps, and mode of using. Difficulties. Failure in reaching the bladder. withdrawn; although when the bladder cannot be reached by the finger, the blunt gorget may he passed along the staff to act as a guide to the forceps. The forceps, held in the surgeon’s right hand, is then passed into the wound upon the left index-finger, and, guided by it, pushed into the opening, the forceps being introduced into the bladder at the moment the finger is withdrawn. “Having delivered his knife to the assistant, the operator takes the staff in his right hand, and passing the forefinger of his left along the director through the opening in the prostate, withdraws the director, and exchanges it for the forceps, passes the latter upon his finger into the cavity of the bladder.” “ In extracting the calculus, should the aperture in the prostate prove too small, and a great degree of violence be required to make it pass through the opening, it is advisable always to dilate with the knife rather than expose the patient to the inevitable danger consequent on laceration.”—Key. The forceps should be full-sized, and introduced into the bladder closed fiat upon the stone, and immediately opened, the stone generally being at once caught in the blades, the rush of urine carrying it towards the wound. The stone should be grasped boldly, and when seized, be slowly and deliberately extracted, the extracting force being made in the direction of the axis of the pelvis downwards and backwards, and then forwards; a little rotatory and side-to-side motion of the instrument at times facilitates the extraction of a calculus, the surgeon at the same time with his index-finger pushing the soft parts off the stone. Before extracting, the operator by the sensation given to the forceps, will assure himself that the bladder is not caught. It is in this third step of the operation that the surgeon frequently meets with his difficulties, and much discretion and fertility of resource are often needed to overcome them, since no definite rules can he laid down as a guide. The stone may elude the grasp of his instrument; sometimes it clings to the bladder above the wound behind the symphysis, and is thus without the reach of the instrument; at others, it is caught in the fundus, under which circumstances the pressure of the hand of an assistant above the pubes becomes of value, or, the injection of a stream of water is advantageous. Occasionally, although rarely, the stone may be encysted. At times, when the stone is very small, it may be washed out with the first rush of urine, and conse- quently not felt. I have seen this happen in a child. At times a bladder may be opened and no stone found; “ but from all my expe- rience,” writes Sir W. Fergusson, “ I feel justified in stating my con- viction that most of the cases heretofore related as instances where the incisions for lithotomy have been made, and a stone has not been present, have been examples where the surgeon has failed to reach the bladder.” In children, tins is particularly the case, the surgeon pushing the bladder inwards off the staff. This accident is liable to occur when the neck of the bladder is not sufficiently opened. After the removal of the stone, the finger or sound should be introduced into the bladder to ascertain the existence or non-existence of a second. Fergusson describes the operation as follows :— The breech should now be brought to the margin of the table, when the assistant who has charge of the staff should be desired to