CHRONIC NEPHRITIS. 51 of dilatation, inflammation, or suppuration of the whole urinary passages may be found, the bladder may be enormously thickened and inflamed ; the ureters dilated, tortuous,thickened, and suppurating; the pelvis of the kidney expanded and filled with pus—“pyelitis”—and the kidney itself more or less undergoing disorganizing changes. (Fig. 319.) The symptoms of changes such as these are not very definite. In all Symptoms. long-standing examples of obstructive urinary affections some of these may he suspected, as well as in all cases of neglected stone, particularly when bladder symptoms are marked; when the urine is albuminous, pale coloured, and smoky, or tinged with blood; when it contains pus in suspen- sion, varying in quantity at different times, or shreds of lymph; when a dull aching pain is present in the loins, shooting round the hips into the groin and down to the testicles, and, when the digestive organs do their work badly, and sleep is difficult to secure or superseded by a general drowsiness. Under these circumstances, chronic kidney disease may fairly be Diagnosis, diagnosed with or without suppuration in the organ or around it. When anasarca sets in, or brain symptoms from urmmic poisoning appear, the diagnosis is clear. When rigors are frequent, even when not w ell marked, when lumbar pain is constant and increased on pressure, when on manipulation, evidence exists of some deep-seated lumbar swelling and fluctuation is distinctly or indistinctly to be made out abscess of the kidney is Abscess of fairly indicated. When with these a sudden discharge in the kidney, urine of large quantities of pus takes place, with relief to the local symptoms, it is probable that the abscess has discharged itself through the ureter; when the lumbar pain becomes more intense, the swelling more marked and prominent, and fluctuation more distiuct, it is probable that the ureter has become obstructed and the renal abscess is making its way through the loin externally; and cases are on record in which, after the discharge of the abscess by natural or surgical means, a recovery has ensued. Indeed, stones have been discharged from the kidney in this way with a good result. Renal abscesses are, however, prone to make their way through the diaphragm into the lung or into the colon, rare cases being recorded where they burrowed downwards and appeared below Poupart’s liga- ment, or in the pelvis. In these cases, the symptoms simulate spinal disease, the thigh being flexed upon the pelvis; this symptom too, attended with lumbar pain or tenderness, is very constant in nephritic abscess. Dr. Bowditch, of Boston, was the first to draw attention to the fact in 1869 and 1870. Treatment.—When acute nephritis originates from a blow or from Trcatmen; the irritation of a renal calculus, complete rest in the horizontal posture of acut9 in a warm bed is absolutely essential, with milk diet and the moderate ne,lllritls‘ use of simple diluents as milk and water, or barley water. Poppy fomentations to the loins always give comfort, and, when the pain is severe, leeching is beneficial; cupping has been recommended, and is practised by some. The bowels should always be well cleared out by some simple medicine such as castor oil or an enema. All medicines that act upon the kidney as salines or turpentine, all external applica- tions such as blisters, should be carefully avoided; and for this same reason stimulants ought not to be given. The action of the skin should be encouraged by outside warmth, and