509 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE BONES. pain in the part, “ the pain being a dull one, rather tending to produce sickness than to rouse” (John Hunter), exacerbations occur in its progress, when the pain becomes acute, fixed, and of a burning pulsa- tive kind, “ like the falling of drops of molten lead,” as a patient once described it to me; there will likewise be local circumscribed tender- ness or pain on firm pressure, with probably some evident enlargement of bone, and the sense of local heat. In more advanced cases, the soft parts over the bone will be oedema- (Edema, tous, and on firm pressure over the painful spot, a sensation of yielding May open will be given to the finger. In still more neglected cases, the abscess intu may make its way into a joint; while under fortunate circumstances it may advance forward and discharge itself externally. Treatment.—“ Abscess in bone may find its way to the surface,” Treatment, but “ the crown of the trephine is often necessary in order to get at the seat of abscess,” said John Hunter, in 1787 (MS. lec.). At the Opening by present day a like treatment is to be advised, as nothing less than the trephine, the opening of the abscess in the bone is of any use, and this is usually done by means of a small trephine. The point to he selected for the operation is the painful spot, which should be marked before the patient is ansestheticised; the soft parts should then be divided by a crucial incision and turned back and the bone itself freely perforated, with the periosteum covering it. When the instrument has opened the abscess, pus will well up at once; the ring of bone raised by the eleva- tor ought then to be taken away; the cavity, which is generally lined with smooth velvety granulations, is rarely very large, and the quantity of pus seldom above a drachm, although sometimes there may be more. After the operation the parts have only to be left alone to heal, recovery being very general. It is not always necessary, however, to trephine a bone, as a less Pnnciure severe operation is at times all that is required, and that is, its simple wit1' drill, puncture by means of a drill; when the seat of the abscess is not very accurately defined the drill is probably the better instrument to use. In a striking case, I had in the spring of 1870,1 carried out this Cases, operation and punctured the head of the tiba of a man who had all the external evidence of local ostitis and suppuration, such as pain, bone expansion, &c. I cut down upon the painful expanded part, and made two punctures with a drill, one of which clearly went into a cavity in the bone, as evinced by the sudden loss of resistance. No pus, however, was seen to well up in the wound at the time, though soon after the operation, a free discharge took place. The operation was followed by complete relief from all pain, and in a month, the man left Guy’s quite restored, and three months later he remained so. More recently, I arrested disease in the femur of a boy, act. 18, by trephining the trochanter major and puncturing the bone with a drill through the opening. This operation of drilling the hone seems to be good either for Value of supposed suppuration or chronic ostitis. It is less formidable than billing, trephining, and may he done in cases where the latter is inapplicable or not to be entertained; indeed, the two means may be employed together when the trephine has failed to open the abscess. Holmes’s suggestion is good, viz. to pierce the walls of the trephine-hole in several directions with a sharp-pointed instrument, in order to remove the bone freely with a chisel, if a drop of pus follow any of these punctures.