FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 430 Bondage not to cover fracture. In Pott’s fracture. Of both bones. Tendency. V-shaped fracture. Fig. 625. Fig. 526. Fig. 527. from without inwards, but in many instances, nothing more is called for than absolute rest. In other cases, a thick pad is often of use opposite the seat of fracture. In no case should the bandage cover the fracture. After the lapse of a few days or at most a week, when all swelling with other evidence of local injury has subsided, the limb may with advantage be put up in some immoveable apparatus. In cases of Pott’s fracture, or dislocation of the foot outwards with fractured fibula, Pott used to place the patient on the af- fected side, with the injured limb flexed, fixing the leg upon an outside splint; an inner splint being likewise very usually applied. A better plan, however, is found in the posterior and two lateral splints, with a swing, as seen in Fig. 529, this mode of swinging the limb being a very good substitute for Salter’s swing (Fig. 530). Fractures of both bones occur in every variety, and the most common is the transverse about three inches above the ankle, but every form of oblique, dentated, comminuted, and vertical fracture is met with (Fig. 472). When near the joints, the vertical into the joint is by no means rare. The surgeon in his first examination of the fractured limb should, if possible, make out the line of obliquity of the fracture and the tendency one or other of the frag- ments may have to ride in any one direction, always observing the utmost gentleness in his manipulation. When the tibia is broken at the junction of its middle and lower thirds, and the extremity of its upper frag- ment on its inner or subcutaneous surface presents a V-shape (Fig. 527), the surgeon may expect to find a fissure in the lower fragment of bone, starting from the apex of the V and running in a spiral direction in- wards, backwards, and outwards round the inner edge of hone, across its posterior surface towards the lower articular facet where the tibia and fibula articulate, the fissure then passing horizontally inwards across the lower articular facet of the tibia to the posterior border of the inner malleolus, to join the one on the posterior aspect of the bone, thereby cutting off a triangular fragment of the tibia at its lower extremity. This variety of fracture is generally produced by some sudden twist of the body when the foot is fixed. It may be suspected during life, when joint compli- cations are associated with the fracture. It was first de- scribed by M. Grosselin (‘ Gazette des Hopitaux,’ 1855). V-shaped frac- ture of tibia with spiral fis- sures. Figure taken from a preparation of G o ss el i n’s now in Du- puytren’s mu- seum.