214 CANCER OP THE TESTICLE. Growth. Character. Progress. Enlarged inguinal glands. Diagnosis of cancer of testis. From i hydrocele and i hsematocele. From testitis. Out of my 25 cases the disease in 20 had been growing for one year or less, and in the remaining 5 cases two were of three years, two of four, and one of five years standing. It is rare, if not unknown, for both testicles to be the seat of cancer at the same time. I am not aware of any such example being on record. In 16 out of the 25 cases before me, the right organ was attacked, and in 9 the left. Mal-placed testicles appear to be particularly prone to this disease. Cancer of the testicle may come on as insidiously as the simple cystic disease, but in general its growth is more rapid. It makes its appearance as a gradual enlargement of the body of the organ, seldom attended by pain. There is also an early loss on pressure or manipulation of the special testicular sensation. The outline of the tumour is smooth, semi-elastic, and fluctuating, but as the disease progresses, its surface may become somewhat uneven or irregularly bossy, the tumour being harder in some parts than in others, the softer parts projecting. In the carcinoma fibrosum, however, the whole tumour is hard and at times nodular. The tumour is opaque from the beginning, and rarely, if ever, associated with hydrocele, and when so, it is by chance, the one affection having no direct relation to the other. In this respect, cancer differs from inflammation of the organ, which is very frequently complicated by the presence of hydro- cele. The disease rarely extends beyond its fibrous covering or involves the scrotum ; and for a bleeding fungus to form, the tumour must be very large. As the disease progresses, the health of the patient may suffer, and a general aspect indicative of exhaustion and some wasting disease appear, although it is not till a late period of this affection that any such symptoms are to be expected. When lumbar pain or a constant aching exists, a suspicion of enlarged lumbar glands should be excited, and, in certain examples, a chain of enlarged glands may be felt extending upwards along the psoas muscle. The inguinal glands are occasionally enlarged from infiltration, though it is believed by some, that this complication does not appear till the scrotum is involved in the disease. This, however, is certainly not the case, for large inguinal glands may appear at an early stage. The diagnosis of this disease is by no means easy, particularly in its early stage, indeed, in many instances, it is almost impossible to be certain of its nature. It is the size of the organ which generally first draws the attention of the patient to the part; and the pain and inconvenience caused by its weight which prompt him to seek advice. The history of the case and the absence of translucency will prevent its being mistaken for a hydrocele. Hsematocele, as a rule, has a distinct and special history of its own, and the fact that the testis may be made out to exist in some portion of the tumour is a material aid to the surgeon in forming a correct opinion as to the nature of the case. The tenderness of the organ, the nature of the pain, and the shape of the swelling, are sufficient to indicate the inflammatory affection, and w'hen fluid exists, the diagnosis is rendered more plain, since a vaginal hydrocele rarely co-exists with any other disease than the inflammatory, except to a very slight extent. The simple cystic disease is of slower growth than the cancerous.