ON GUNSHOT INJURIES OP THE HEAD. -551 ment of the projectile are most serious. Of seventy-six cases recorded afcer the Crimean campaign, fifty-five proved fatal, and of the twenty- one survivors twelve had to be invalided; “the severe concussion of the whole osseous sphere by tbe stroke of the projectile, the bruising and injury to the bony texture immediately surrounding the spot against which it has directly impinged, as well as the contusion of the external soft parts, so that the wound cannot close by tbe adhesive process, constitute very important differences between gunshot injuries on the one side and others.”—Longmore. Fractures of the cranium from gunshot wounds are not unfrequently Bullet often complicated with the retention of the projectile. It may be that the ietame ball has been flattened against the bone and lodged in the wound, or it may be that it has been split against the fractured cranium, one portion entering the skull and the other the integument. Under either circumstance, the segment that enters the skull may lodge either between the bone and the dura mater, or lacerate the membranes and enter the brain. Longmore gives a case in which there was a fissured fracture with slight depression, but no hole in the skull, where after death, half the rifle-bullet was found in the brain, the hole through which the half bullet had forced admittance having closed as soon as it had entered the skull. He gives, also, another precisely similar, which reflects great credit upon the surgeon, Dr. B. Howard, of the United States, in which, from the presence of a single hair protruding from within the broken bone, it was inferred that a solid substance had entered the skull. Trephining was performed, a distorted Minie ball removed, and recovery ensued. Rifle bullets at the usual speed, however, in the majority of cases enter the cerebral mass, to make their exit, in some instances, at the opposite side of the skull, in others to rest beneath the opposite wall; at times, the ball takes a circuitous route. In all death follows, as a Perforating rule, no exception to this fact having been reported from the Crimean wound* war. Treatment.—To do nothing active when death appears imminent Treatment, is a duty the student has to learn, but iu the primary treatment of head injuries in the stage of collapse, iu military as in civil practice, there is no more stringent rule than to abstain from interference, to wait and to watch. The patient should be relieved of all unnecessary dress; Immediate, no tight belts or garment being allowed to interfere with the respira- tion. He should be placed in the horizontal position, and when moved from necessity, it should be done as gently as possible. When the extremities are cold extra covering may be applied and artificial warmth when possible. As the case develops, its surgical treatment ought to be conducted As case on precisely similar principles to those laid down in former chapters, develops. Practice is to be established on the preventive principle, to ward off intra-cephalic inflammation; perfect quiet, cold applications to the head, and liquid food, being the three essentials. Foreign Of foreign bodies are to be searched after and removed with extreme caution. bo<hcs.' When they have entered the skull, and still more the brain, all search is forbidden ; but when situated at the external orifice they should be taken away, and the sooner the better. If a ball be so impacted as to be immovable, the wound in the broken bone may be enlarged to favour its extraction, but no unnecessary interference with the