41 WOUNDS OP THE CHEST. Hernia of the lung or pneumocele is a rare consequence of a puuc- Hernia of turecl wound of the thorax. I have seen but one example where the tumour was on the left side, external to the nipple, and about the size of a walnut. The mass was left in sitii and gradually withered. When the hernia is recent, however, and the lung healthy, its reduction is generally considered to be the best practice, but when of long standing and diseased it had better be left alone. Its removal by liga- ture or the knife has likewise been recommended, successful cases having been recorded of all forms of practice. In a case which came under my care at Guy’s in 1876, of fracture of the'sternal ends of the left third and fourth ribs, by the man falling upon the blunt end of some wooden palings, in which the bones were driven in without wounding the integuments, a hernia of the lung took place the size of a duck’s egg, but an excellent recovery followed the reduction of the hernia and the persistent application of pressure. Velpeau has recorded an instance of Example, hernia of the lung following the healing of a wound. The tumour in such a case is covered with integument, and is called the consecutive variety of hernia. In such a case, all that can be done, is to protect the lung from injury by a shield. Laceration of the lung without fracture of the ribs is an accident of Lacerated occasional occurrence, and I have recorded an instance in ‘ Guy’s Reports ’ for 1860, arising from extreme pressure upon the elastic rii,g ribs of a boy, set. 7. Poland also, in his excellent article on the chest in ‘ Holmes’s Surgery,’ has quoted several others. M. Gosselin’s explanation of its cause is probably correct, viz. “ that at the time of the injury, when the chest sustains the violence, the lungs are sud- denly tilled and distended with air by a full inspiration, and the air, prevented from escaping by occlusion of the larynx, thus becomes pent up in the lung tissue, and the lung, not being able to recede from the superincumbent pressure, its tissue necessarily gives way.” The symptoms of this injury are much the same as have beeu mentioned in the paragraph on wounds of the lung, while the treatment must be similar. Severe compression of the chest may likewise cause laceration of the Compression heart or large vessels; also brain symptoms such as unconsciousness, °fllle chest, epistaxis, and haemorrhage into the orbit beneath the conjunctiva and eyelids; and, in a singular case which I recorded in the same volume of the ‘Guy’s Rep.’ as that of the boy just quoted, paralysis of the muscles of deglutition and of the larnyx, which lasted for two days. Abscesses are frequently found about the chest, and when situated Abscesses beneath the pectoral muscles are very obstinate. They may be confined about the to the cellular tissue of the part and connected with the subpectoral cliest' glands, or associated with ruptured muscle or inflammation of the periosteum or bone. When connected with the muscles, they must be opened and the parts kept quiet by binding the arm to which the muscle belongs to the side, as each movement of the muscle retards recovery. When due to periostitis or ostitis, they are frequently syphilitic, and are more commonly situated over the sterum, though any of the ribs may be affected. Under these circumstances, constitutional treat- ment is essential, and the iodide of potassium in gradually increasin0, doses from five to ten grains in some tonic, such as bark,' is the bes't,