MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XXXvii lative project, or profitable transaction, leads them to form a false estimate of what can be afforded; and it too often happens that both parties, far from consulting each other, squander mo- ney in ways that they would even wish to forget: whereas mar riage should be a state of mutual and perfect confidence, and similarity of pursuits, which would secure that happiness it was intended to bestow. There are so many valuable women who excel as wives, that It Is a fair inference there would be few extravagant ones, were they consulted by their husbands on subjects that concern the mutual interest of both parties. 'V ithin the knowledge of the writer of these pages, many families have been reduced to po- verty by the want of openness in the man on the subject of his affairs: and though on these occasions the women were blamed, it has afterwards appeared, that they never were al- lowed a voice of enquiry, or suffered to reason upon what some- times appeared to them imprudent. Many families have owed their prosperity full as much to the propriety of female management, as to the knowledge and ac- tivity of the father. The lady of a general officer observed to her man-cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was offered;—to which she replied:—“ Such is the sum I have al- lotted to house-keeping: should it be exceeded one week, the next must repay it. The general will have no public day this week.” The fault was never repeated. March’s “ Family Book-keeper” is a very useful work, and saves much trouble; the various articles of expense being printed, with a column for every day in the year, so that at one view the amount of expenditure on each, and the total sum, may be known. Heady money should be paid for all such things as come not into weekly bill’s, and even tor them a check is necessary. The best places for purchasing should be attended to. In some ar- ticles a discount of five per cent, is allowed tor ready-money in Loudon and other large cities, and those who thus pay are usu- ally best served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops, but it is safest to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods by underselling. To make tradesmen wait for their money, injures them greatly; besides that, a higher price must be paid, and, in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the ir- regularity and failure of payment may have much evil influ- ence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many families, from the highest to thetfowest. Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money affairs may be known with ease ; for it is delay of payment that occasions confusion. A common-place book should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints of useful knowledge, and other observations as are given by sensible experienced people. Want of attention to what is advised, or supposing thing- too minute to be worth hearing, are the causes why so much igno-