OBSERVATIONS FOR THE xlii Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz. Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor, if the air be ex- cluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweetmeats re- quire a dry place; so does salt —Candles cold, but not damp. —Dried meats, hams, etc. the same.—All sorts of seeds for puddings, saloop, rice, etc. should be close covered to preserve from insects; but that will not prevent it, if long kept. Bread is now so heavy an article of expense that all waste should be guarded against; and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent it. Since the scarcity in 1795 and 1800, that custom has been much adopted. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keep it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent a musty taste. ' Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, to be used when Kerbs are ordered ; but with discretion, as they are very pungent. The best means to preserve blankets from moths, is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use; and they should be shaken occasionally. When soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler; and, when the lather becomes weak, add more. The new improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near half in quantity; and, though something dearer than the hard, reduces the price of washing con- siderably. Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation with less friction. Soap shonld be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that will make a long square when first brought in, and kept out of the air two or three weeks; for if it dry quick, it will crack, and, when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should be pared first to preserve the peel dry; some should be halved, and, when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best When these fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and prepared as above directed, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had ; and they are perpetually wanted in cookery. When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other purposes, contrive to have pudding, custard, etc. to employ the yolks also- Should you not want there for several hours, beat them vp with a little water, and put them in a cool place, or thev