OBSERVATIONS FOR THE XXXVt of information, to enablealady to do the honours ofher table, but makes a considerable difference in the consumption of a family: and though in large parties she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge apparently of less consequence, yet she must at times feel the deficiency; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an attainment, the advantage of which is evident every day. Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than probable, that before the end of this century, great attention to guests may be again the mode, at it was in the commencement of the last. Some people haggle meat so much, as not to be able to help half a dozen persons decently from a large tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the daughters of the family were to take the head of the table, under the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duties with grace, in the same easy manner as an early practice in other domestic affairs gradually fits them for their own future houses. Habit alone can make good carvers; but some principal directions are here- after given, with a reference to the annexed plates. The mistress of a family should always remember that the welfare and good management of the house depend on the eye of the superior; and, consequently, that nothing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste may be avoided; and this atten- tion is of more importance now that the price of every neces- sary of life is increased to an enormous degree. If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to think of family management, let her not upon that account fear that she cannot attain it: she may consult others who are more ex- perienced, and acquaint herself with the necessary quantities of the several articles of family expenditure, in proportion to the number it consists of, the proper prices to pay, <Sic. &c. A minute account of the annual income, and the times of payment, should betaken in writing; likewise an estimate of the supposed amount of each article of expence; and those who are early accustomed to calculations on domestic articles will acquire so accurate a knowledge of what their establish- ment requires, as will give them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, without acquiring the character of meanness. Perhaps few branches of female education are so useful as great readiness at figures. Accounts should be regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to be entered; and if ba- lanced every week and month, &c. the income and out-goings will be ascertained with facility, and their proportions to each other be duly observed. Some people fix on stated sums to be appropriated to each different article, and keep the money in separate purses: as house, clothes, pocket, education of chil- dren. iVc. Whichever way accounts be entered, accrtainmode should be adopted, and strictly adhered to. Many women are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their husband’s income, and others are only made acquainted with it when somespecu-