MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR THE USE OP THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. In every rank, those deserve the greatest praise, who best acquit themselves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed, this line of conduct is hot a matter of choice but of necessity, if we would maintain the dignity of our character as rational beings. . .. , . .. In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic oc- cupations stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet, when neglected, they produce much human misery- There was a time when ladies knew nothing beyond their own family concerns; but, in the present day, there are many who know nothing about them. Each of these extremes should be avoided: but is there no wav to unite, in the female character, cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still great numbers in every situation, whose example proves that this is possible. Instances may be found of ladies jn the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the ac- counts of their house-steward; and, by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of their husbands in- come which falls under their own inspection, avoid the incon- veniences of embarrasses I circumstances. How""'f1?. necessary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy ? There ought to be a material ditlerence in the de- gree of care which a person of a large and independent estate bestows upon money concerns, and that of a person m confined circumstances: yet both may very commendably employ some portion of their time and thoughts on this subject. The cus- tom of the times tends in some measure to abolish the distinc- tions of rank; and the education given to young people is nearly the same in all: but though the leisuw■ of‘ Je' may be well devoted to elegant accomplishments, tht pursuits of those in a middle line, if less ornamental, would better sc- cure their own happiness and that of others connected with them. We sometimes bring up children in a manner calcula- ted rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that which it is likely they will actually possess; and it is in all cases worth the while ot parents to consider whether the expectation or