MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XXXV mon stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one may truly say. “ Happy the man who can call her his wife. Blessed are the children who call her mother." When we thus observe her, exercising her activity and best abilities in appropriate cares and increasing excellence, are we not ready to say, she is.the agent for good of that benevolent Being, who placed her on earth to fulfil such sacred obliga- tions, not to waste the talents committed to her charge ? When it is thus evident that the high intellectual attainments may find exercise in the multifarious occupations of the daugh- ter, the wife, the mother, and the mistress of the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ ? Ft is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose chief aim is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the vir- tues of the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally bends its attention to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater. Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, re- spectability of appearance, and the comfort of her husband and those who partake their hospitality. The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, the dressing and the neat pleasing look of the whole, which gives respectability to her who presides. Too much, or too little dinners, are extremes • not uncommon : the latter is in appearance and reality the ef- fort of poverty or penuriousness to be genteel; and the former, if constantly given, may endanger the circumstances of those who are not affluent. . Generally speaking, dinners are far less sumptuous than for- merly, when half a dozen dishes were supplied for what one now costs; consequently those whose fortunes are not great, and who wish to make a genteel appearance, without extrava- gance, regulate their table accordingly. Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respectability of a man is more immediately felt, than the style ot dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the entertainments of the higher classes, but if two or three dishes are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the expectation of the husband and friend will be gratified, because no irregularity of domestic ar- rangement will disturb the social intercourse. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In all situations of life, the entertainment should be no less suited to the station, than to the fortune of the entertainer, and to the number and rank of those invited. The manner of carving is not only a very nccessarv branch