TERATOLOGY. the forehead, round which is twisted the um- bilical cord. Fig. 596. In some, but very rare, cases, the coats of the ovum are destroyed, and the fetus is im- mediately attached to the inner surface of the uterus (Steinmetz). It is not to be denied, that through these pseudo-membranes some mal- formations of the fetus may be occasioned, as Montgomery has proved, such as the truncation of the extremities, which he names self-ampu- tation. Further than this, however, we may net go, for the brides placcnlaires of Professor St. Hilaire are certainly not a universal cause of monstrosity. They are too accidental and unstable to be such. The existence of mal- formations in eggs which Geoff'roy St. Hilaire coated over with varnish or wax, affords no proof of the possibility of a mechanical origin of monstrosities. The exclusion of the air pre- vents, in such a case, the necessary material change in the ovum, in consequence of which the perfect developement of the fetus is im- paired. The morbid state of the coats of the ovum may likewise cause the so-called molcc, which, according to their consistency, are divided into mohs fungosa, carnoscc, cruentce, and tendinosce. Valentin* distinguishes in the san- guineous mass oi niola carnosa a net of vessels, from which the blood issues. It is the vas- cular net of the chorion, in which the mass of blood has been collected, in consequence of too great a supply from the uterus. By these means the villi are distended and removed. The ovum being thus degenerated, occasions defective respiration and nutrition of the fetus, which in consequence soon dies. The ovum, however, may still continue to grow, and is finally expelled. In this manner these molce are frequently the cause of miscarriage. * Eepert. Anat. u. Physiol., Berlin, 1837, B. i. S. 127. Kerckring* inveighed in a spirited and in- genious manner against the strange accounts which were formerly given of these moles. To the diseases of the placenta are referred enlargement (Kyll, Pierrard, Devilliers), con- gestion and apoplexy (J. Clarke, Darigan), calcareous concretions (Hannover). For the aetiology of malformations, this pathological anatomy of the placenta is, however, very un- productive. None of these can be explained by it, nor were any accompanied by these pla- cental diseases. Nor does the nosology of the fetus afford us much more information, notwithstanding the monograph given by J. Gmesser.-j- It cannot, however, be denied, that some of its diseases may give rise to deformities ; for in- stance, chronic inflammation of the brain to hi/drops ventriculdrum cerebri, and this again to Acrania. Perhaps also, as Rokitansky states, a morbid condition of the valves may be the cause of some congenital abnormities of the heart. Yet, notwithstanding all this, the diseases of the fetus can only, in a very limited sense, be assigned as the cause of its malformation ; and hence the opinion of Otto, who ascribes to this source a great many malformations, ought to be rejected. 4. A fourth, and assuredly very general, cause of malformation, consists in impeded de- velopement of the fetus by some remote and un- known cause. It is matter of dispute whether this deforming cause operates on the fetus in its totality, or whether it affects originally only one system, which spreads its deforming influence over all the others. This last idea was embraced by Tiedemann, who at first de- duced all monstrosities from some defect of the vascular, and later from the nervous system. In opposition to this hypothesis, I suggest the following considerations. a. It is opposed to anatomical evidence. The cyclopia, whose nature consists in a more or less simplified eye and a displaced or absent external nose, is attributed by Tiede- mann to the original absence of olfactory nerves, producing the deformation of the nasal cavity, and the original fusion of the optic nerves, and of the thalami nervorum opticorum effecting the simplification of the eye. I have found, however, in ci/clopes, more than once, olfactory nerves, and have likewise seen that there was no constant con- currence between the simplified form of the eye and of the optic nerve. A double optic nerve may be found with a single eye-ball (Eller, Henermann). With complete dupli- cation of the internal parts of the eye, and even with two separate eyes, I found a single optic nerve, and likewise a double, though not complete, as well as a single eye-ball, notwithstanding the entire absence of the optic nerve. Similar facts are quoted by Haller and G. F. Wolff. Hare-lip with cleft * Specil. Anat. Amstelodami, 1670, Observ. 38 et 95. t Die Krankheiten des Foetus. Breslavi, 1827. 8vo