805 STATISTICS. 3 r 3 multitude of causes, has been urged as an ob- jection to the introduction of the numerical method into the service of those sciences. It is admitted, that the use of numbers and averages by the astronomer who deals with the more simple relations of matter, such as magnitude and relative position, and by the engineer who avails himself of its more simple properties, such as its hardness, tenacity and elasticity, have contributed to make the science of the one perfect, and the art of the other safe ; but it is contended that the use of num- bers cannot be extended beyond such narrow limits with safety or advantage, and that medi- cine and political economy lie beyond these limits. The actual practice of mankind, founded upon an instinctive perception of the necessity of employing figures in the service of the phy- sician and statesman, may be fairly alleged as a sufficient answer to this objection ; but a little consideration will serve to show its futility. In the first place, it is self-evident that the exclusion of figures from the service of medi- cine, does not bring about the disuse of those very facts and events wdiich are objected to as unfit to be employed as statistical or numerical elements. The physician will still persist in stating and recording the results of his expe- rience. He will still assert that he has sometimes observed this symptom in a certain disease, that he has often found that remedy beneficial, that he has almost never known such and such a mode of treatment to fail. Those who con- tend for the use of numbers in medicine, merely insist on the necessity of reducing the sometimes, the often, and the almost never to a more correct and intelligible form of expres- sion ; and they argue that it is utterly incon- sistent to object to the use of facts as mate- rials or elements of numerical propositions, and yet not to censure the use of these same facts as foundations for loose and inaccurate verbal statements. From this dilemma there is obviously no escape. But, though the ob- jection itself is futile, the misgiving of which it is the exaggerated expression is natural and well founded. It cannot excite surprise that the individual facts or events which own so many concurrent causes should be regarded as requiring, on the part of the observer, a greater degree of care in verifying, recording, collecting, and arranging them than would be necessary in the more simple cases already adduced ; and that both the facts themselves, and the numerical expressions in which they are embodied, should be viewed with a pro- portionate degree of distrust. From this mo- derate and reasonable view of the case, no advocate of the numerical method will be found to dissent. On the contrary, he will seek to strengthen it by giving due promi- nence to each separate ground of misgiving, and by laying down stringent rules for the guidance and governance of the observer. Before proceeding to detail some of these rules, it may be well to advert to a probable, and, indeed, obvious cause, of the distrust with which numerical data are sometimes regarded. Indiscreet advocates of the numerical method have sought to apply the general results of collections of cases expressed in the language of figures to the treatment of individual cases of the same disease, without making allowance for those differences between case and case which confessedly existed in the collections themselves. They have used a general prin- ciple, as if it had been a rigid and unbending rule of action; forgetting that though, as the experience of assurance offices abundantly tes- tifies, the general results obtained from a large number of individual facts may be salely re- applied to an aggregate of facts of the same nature, they cannot be brought to bear on a single case, or on a small number of cases, without the greatest danger. Each case must be viewed in practice, first as a generality governed by some large law of prognosis, diagnosis, and treatment; and secondly, as a specialty demanding a careful consideration of all its peculiarities. Among the rules which ought to govern the observer in the collection of facts destined to form the elements of averages, there are some of so simple and obvious a nature as to re- quire no discussion. Such are, the previous preparation of some simple and available form of register, by means of which the several facts may be committed to paper at the very time of observation, so that nothing maybe trusted to the memory ; the careful selection of the facts themselves -r the shaping of the inquiries which may be necessary to elucidate those facts as nearly as may be in the same terms; the avoidance as much as possible of such leading questions as would be likely to bias the respondent, when the facts in question, like most of the particulars which make up the history of diseases, are dependent upon testi- mony ; and especially the purging of the ob- server's own mind of prejudices and precon- ceptions in respect of the subject of inquiry. The careful selection of the facts w hich are to form the materials of our averages is by far the most important of these rules, and one which demands a little further consider- ation. If we consider the facts we are ob- serving in the light of phenomena, or events brought about by a multitude of concurrent causes, it will be obvious that care will re- quire to be exercised, not so much in verify- ing each phenomenon or event as that of which we are in search, as in ascertaining that all the concurrent causes or conditions are, or have been, in operation to bring about that phenomenon or event. The absence of a single cause or condition will vitiate the in- dividual fact, and impair or destroy the value of our average results. A few illustrations will suffice to show what is here intended. We are anxious to determine the true average frequency of the pulse in adult males, in a state of rest, and as free as possible from the influence of all disturbing causes ; but, either from ignorance or oversight, we count it in- differently in every position of the body, and at all times of the day. In this case, our facts cease to be comparable facts ; for it is well