URINE. 1274 " But the case is quite different with water possessing an amount of salts equal to that of the blood; if even as little as 1-100th part of common salt be added to pump-water, and from three to four glasses drank, no evacua- tion of urine will take place, even two hours after drinking. It is almost impossible to drink more than three glasses of this saline water, for it weighs heavily on the stomach, as if the absorbent vessels had no power of taking it up. This obviously arises from the fluid with- in the channels of circulation, i. e. the blood, and the fluid without these vessels,i.e. the sa- line water, not exercising any physical action upon one another, i. e. not intermixing by endosmose or exosmose. " Water containing a larger amount o. salts than the blood, such as common sea- water, for instance, and even the weaker kinds of saline mineral waters, exercise again a dif- ferent action from that of pump-water mixed with l-100th of common salt ; not only no emission of urine takes place after the imbibi- tion of such saline water, but water exudes from the circulating vessels into the intestinal tube, and, together with the saline solution, is carried off through the rectum; purgation takes place, attended with much thirst, if the saline solution be in some measure concen- trated. " Considering that a certain amount of salts is absolutely necessary to constitute normal blood, we may deduce from these observations and experiments (which any one may easily imitate and verify upon his own person) that the physical condition of the tissues or of the bloodvessels opposes an obstacle to any in- crease or decrease of the amount of salts in the blood ; and thus that the blood cannot become richer or poorer in salts beyond a cer- tain limit. " Fluids containing a larger amount of salts than the blood remain unabsorbed, and leave the organism through the rectum ; fluids con- taining a smaller amount of salts than the blood enter into the circulation, absorb, and remove from the organism, through the uri- nary channels, all the soluble salts and other substances which do not belong to the con- stitution of the blood ; so that, finally, only those substances remain in the organism which exist in chemical combination with the con- stituents of the blood, and which, therefore, are incapable of being excreted by the healthy kidneys. " 1 have convinced myself, by careful and minute examinations, that urine emitted after drinking a copious amount of water invariably contains a somewhat larger amount of salts than the water which has been drank ; whilst the amount of phosphates contained in the last emitted portions of the urine is extremely minute, and no longer detectable by the ordi- nary tests. It is, therefore, obvious that all the salts, without exception, contained in the urine, are to be considered as accidental con- stituents of the blood, which are excreted and removed from the organism precisely because they no longer form part of the normal consti- tution of the blood. The phosphates emitted with the urine were, previously, constituent substances which have been decomposed in the vital processes, or they existed as consti- tuents of the blood, but upon its transforma- tion into living tissues they were not admitted into their composition, they were not required in the constitution of the latter. " Now, among the products of the vital processes, which, together with the soluble phosphates, are removed from the organism through the urinary organs and channels, there are two organic acids, namely, uric acid and hippuric acid, both possessing the property of combining with the soda or potass of the alkaline phosphates, and acquiring in the com- bination a higher degree of solubility than they possess, per se, at the common temperature of the body. It is obvious that, by the accession of these two acids, and by their action upon the phosphates of soda, an urate and hippurate of soda must be formed on the one hand, and an acid phosphate of soda on the other ; and that, consequently, the urine must acquire an acid reaction. " But the presence of these two acids in the urine is not the only cause of its acid nature , there exists another cause, which tends pow- erfully to maintain and increase it. " According to the preceding remarks we ought to find in the urine all the soluble sahs of the food, as well as a small amount of the phosphate of lime, which is soluble to a cer- tain extent in acid fluids, together with mag- nesia. The amount of these latter substances will be in proportion to their solubility in acid phosphate of soda. The other insoluble salts of the aliments we ought to find in the faeces. In other words, assuming that the materials composing the aliments become converted into oxygen compounds, that is, are burnt in the organism, we ought to find in the urine all the soluble salts of their ashes, and in the fasces all the insoluble salts. Now, upon comparing the constitution of the ashes of the blood or of the aliments, or, rather, the salts contained therein, with those contained in the mine, we find that there exists a striking difference be- tween their respective amounts of sulphates. " According to the analyses of the ashes of the grains of wheat and rye*, the urine of an individual feeding exclusively upon bread ought not to contain a single trace of a sul- phate, whilst the urine of an animal fed upon peas or beans ought to contain sulphates toge- ther with phosphates, in the proportion of nine of the former to sixty of the latter. Finally, as flesh contains no soluble alkaline sulphate (broth does not yield any precipitate of sulphate of barytes when tested with salts of barytes), the urine of carnivorous animals ought to be equally free from soluble sul- phates. We find, on the contrary, that the urine of man, according to the most correct analyses, contains a far larger proportion of sulphates than the aliments partaken of; nay, even that the amount of the sulphuric acid * Ami. dcr Chemie, Bel. xlvi. S. 79.