SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 830 vertebral arch : this occurs in the genera Cyprinus, Tinea, Pleuronectes, Anarrhichas, Scomber. Or they occupy more the middle of the kidney, as in the Salmo Salar. On the other hand, they are found on its abdominal surface in the Eel and Pike. They lie in this situation very anteriorly, occupying, in the Eel, the place where the two crura of the renal mass unite. In the Pike they are yet more advanced forwards, so that they come to lie in the middle point of the length of the body. Amongst the cartilaginous fishes, the supra- renal capsules seem in the Squalidae to be only present as a single mass. This, in the shape of a small ochre-yellow stripe, oc- cupies the dorsal surface of the kidneys. But in the Rays the supra-renal organs form a curved cylinder, which is constricted at two points, and lies on the ureters; at least Retzius formerly stated this to be its condi- tion. Stannius sometimes found in this genus a similar elongated body behind the kidneys : or, in other instances, four or five small glan- dular corpuscles were present in its place. And the latter observer found that the supra- renal glands of the Sturgeon * consisted of similar corpuscles in much larger number. The supra-renal capsules of the cartila- ginous fishes have a yellow colour, and are also plainly lobulated. As has been previously remarked, in the least developed fishes the supra-renal cap- sules have not been discovered, at least not with any certainty, so that their existence must remain a matter of doubt. In the Myxinoid fishes, J. Midlerf found behind the gills, and on each side of the cardia, a clus- tered gland which was devoid of an excretory duct. He interprets it as a supra-renal organ; and regards as analogous to it the white specks with which the trunks of the posterior veins of the body are beset in the Ammo- castes.:]; But the minute structure of the glands in question in the Myxinoid fishes, which is also described by Mu'ler, seems ra- ther to contradict the explanation attempted. And Ecker discovered a gland in the Petro- myzon between the aorta and the great vein of the body, and partly lying in the coat of the latter : but this also had not the struc- ture of a supra-renal capsule. II. We next proceed to the minute struc- ture of the supra-renal capsules, concerning which Ecker has given a very good and fun- damental description, so that we shall here in great degree follow him. In Man and all the Mammalia, they exhibit two kinds of sub- stance, which have been designated by the names of cortical and medullary substance. The first is clearer than the la'.ter, being in Man of a yellowish-brown colour ; while the * Stannius, Lehrbuch dor Vergleichender Ana- tomie der Wirbelthiere, Berlin, 1846, S. 118. t Vergleichende Anatomie der Myxinoiden. Sehluss. In der Abhandlungen der Academie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1843, S. 118. X Rathke, Beitrage zur Gesehichte der Thienvelt, 4te Abtheilung, S. 99. medullary substance possesses a reddish- brown hue. In many instances, the two kinds of substance are little distinguishable by the naked eye, so that the supra-renal capsules exhibit only a simple mass, such as Cuvier has described that of the Elephant to be. Besides this, the amount of the two layers varies very considerably. The cortical substance is of some solidity; while, on the contrary, the medullary matter is very delicate and flaky. This great delicacy, together with its considerable richness in blood-vessels, makes it very probable, that the medullary substance of the supra-renal capsides is de- composed very quickly after death. And this gives rise to the formation of a cavity, con- taining a brownish-red fluid, which is not un- frequently found in the interior of the human supra renal capsules. Formerly this cavity was regarded as normal and occurring during life. The name " capsula? atrabilariae" is connected with this notion, since these cavi- ties were described as real by the older ana- tomists. And although decomposition is regarded as the chief agent in the formation of these cavities, yet pathological conditions seem to be by no means without their influence towards them. Thus Rayer tells us the de- velopment of cavities may occur in conse- quence of rupture of the venous coats, an J the effusion of blood in the medullary sub- stance.* Nagel also remarks concerning it, that the supra-renal vein alone, which courses in the centre of the organ, may be instru- mental to the production of such a cavity, albeit a small one ; so that by injections through this vein the whole medullary mass may frequently be torn up, and converted into a cavity. The covering of the supra-renal capsules consists of areolar tissue. At many points of this covering little processes of are- olar tissue pass directly into the interior of the medullary substance, and thus separate it into portions or lobes of different form and size. These masses of areolar tissue are finally lost in fine bundles, which separate the elementary parts of the gland from each other. We shall return to this again. The further composition of the organ which we are now contemplating is better seen in Man than in any others of the Mammalia. Fig. 542. (After Ecker.~) a, Nucleus of the contents of the supra-renal cap- sule from an adult man ; b, Nucleus enwrapped in a fine granular mass ; c, Cell ; d, Nuclear-vesicle of an embryo ; e, two gland-vesicles with their contents from an adult. * Gazette Medicale, 1838, p. D7.