TEETH. 931 3 o 2 Cuvier affirms that the number of fangs of an elephant's molar depends upon the number of points at which the base of the gelatinous (dentinal) pulp is attached to the bottom of the capsule; and that the interspaces of these attachments constitute the under part of the crown or body of the tooth, the attachments themselves forming the first beginnings of the fangs. True to his hypothesis of the forma- tion of the dental tissues by excretion, he says * that the elongation of the fangs is pro- duced by two circumstances : first, the pro- gressive elongation of the layers of osseous substance (dentine) which force the tooth to rise and emerge from its socket; secondly, the thickening of the body of the tooth by the addition of successive layers to its inner sur- face, which, filling up the interior cavity, leaves scarcely room for the gelatinous pulp, and forces it down into the interior of the roots. This pulling up of the fang on the one hand, and squeezing down the pulp on the other, are forces too gross and mechanical to be admitted in actual physiology to explain the growth of the root of a tooth or of any other organised product; such modes of explanation were, however, inevitable in adopting the excretion theory of dental development. With regard to the homologies of the com- plex molars of the Proboscidian quadrupeds, a species of insight whieh may come to be deemed, in the course of anatomical science, as of equal import to the knowledge of the formative processes of parts, I must admit that the mere fact of the marked and dispro- portionate increase of size of the first of the three last molars over its predecessor — the last of the first three that are developed — may appear but a feeble support to the analogical evidence on which, chiefly, I have classed the three last developed molars of the elephant, in a category distinct from that of their smaller predecessors. But the value of such indica- tion and analogy will begin to be apparent when we examine the condition of dental development in the primeval forms of Pro- boscidians. I have already shown that the typical character of the Diphyodont dentition was more closely anil generally adhered to in the genera that existed during the oldest ter- tiary periods in geology than in their actual successors : it became of course highly inter- esting to inquire whether the miocene Mas- todons, the earliest of the great Proboscidian quadrupeds of which we have any cognizance, manifested any analogous closer adhesion to type than their elephantine successors, and whether they would afford any actual proof of the true deciduous nature of the first, * " Ces racines et les pe'dicules qui lour servent de noyaux s'alongent ensuit.e par deux raisons: d'abord les progres des lames de substance osseuse qui, s'alon- geant toujours, forcent la dent a s'e'lever et a sortir de l'alveole; ensuite l'epaississement du corps de la dent par la formation des couches successives qui, en remplissant le vide intc'rieur, n'y laissent presque plus de place pour le noyau gelatineux, et le refoulent vers l'interieur des tubes des racines." Annales du Museum, viii. 1807, p. 108; Ossem. Fossiles, 1834, p. 527. second, or third molars, by the development of a vertical successor or premolar. Cuvier first ascertained the fact, though without ap- preciating its full significance, in a specimen of the upper jaw of the Mastodon angustidens from Dax, in which the second six-lobed deciduous molar was displaced by a four- lobed or quadricuspid premolar developed above it and succeeding it vertically.* The same important fact was subsequently con- firmed by Dr. Kaup in observations of the Mastodon longirostris of the miocene tertiary deposits of Eppelsheim.f This satisfactorily proves the true deci- duous character of the first and second molars ; and that the third molar in order of appear- ance J, is also one (the last) of the de- ciduous series, is indicated by the contrasted superiority of size of the ante-penultimate tooth, which I regard as the first of the true molar series. The great extent and activity of the pro- cesses of dental development required for the preparation of the large and complex true molar teeth would seem to exhaust the power, which, in ordinary Pachyderms, is expended in developing the vertical successors of the deci- duous teeth. In the primeval Mastodons above cited, this normal exercise of the reproductive force was not, however, wholly exhausted, and one premolar, of more simple form than its deciduous predecessor, was developed on each side of both jaws. But even this trace of ad- herence to the archetypal dentition is lost in the more modified Proboscidians of the pre- sent day. Another and very interesting mark of adhe- sion to the archetype is shown by the deve- lopment of two incisors in the lower jaw in the young of some of the Mastodons, by the retention and development of one of these inferior tusks in the male of the Mastodon giganteus of North America, and by the reten- tion of both in the European Mastodon longi- rostris. No trace of these inferior homotypes of the great premaxillary tusks have been detected in the fcetus or young of the existing elephants. In the gigantic Ilinotherium the upper in- cisors were suppressed, and the two lower incisors were developed into huge tusks, which curved down from the symphysis of the massive under jaw. Most of the grinders had two transverse ridges on the crown, as in the Tapir ; two deciduous molars, if not three, were succeeded vertically by two premolars, the second of which (p. 4 of the typical series) closely resembles the true molars, as in other Peiissodactyles. The typical dentition is departed from in the existing Hippopotamus by the early loss of p. 1, and the reduction of the incisors to -—- in both jaws : in the extinct Hippopota- mus of India p. 1 was longer retained, and the * Ossemens Fossiles, 4to.; Divers Mastodontes, pLiii.J%f. 2. f Ossemens Fossiles de Darmstadt, 1835, pi. I. j Odontography, pi. 144,Jig. 11, rf.3