TUNICATA. 1228 other at right angles. The transverse vessels, varying from 18 to 25 in number, are the Fig. 786. Anatomy of Pyrosoma giganteum, magnified. A. A portion of the common mass with animals im- bedded in its substance. (After Savigny.) a, a, a, a, the liver; b, b, b, ova in the posterior cavity; c, ovum in the substance of the common test ; d, d, d, full- grown individuals ; e, e, e, undeveloped individuals. B. A single individual cut out of the common test, with a portion of the latter surrounding it, seen from below. (After Lesueur.) a, branchial or external ori- fice ; b, anal or internal orifice; c, c, delicate fibres traversing the test; d, stomach; e, liver;/,/, bran- chiae ; g, oviduct ( ?); h, ovary; i, ventral sinus; nerve-ganglion. C. The viscera of an individual Pyrosome. (After Lesueur.') d, e, g, h, i, j, as mfig. b ; k, ovum. largest and most distinct, and are folded back on themselves at the free edges of the tissue. The longitudinal vessels are from 11 to 17 in number. " Nothing is more curious," says Milne-Edwards*, "than the respiratory ap- paratus of these little animals, when the vi- bratile cilia, with which each of the branchial stigmata is furnished, are simultaneously ef- fecting their vorticiform movements with ra- pidity and perfect harmony." The oesophagus is curved, and is of a bright red colour. The stomach is subglo- bular, yellowish, and opaque. The intestine is short, and strongly bent on itself; the anus is directed backwards towards the posterior * Annales des Sciences Naturelles, sec. se'r. torn, xii. p. 375. 1835. orifice. The liver is a globular body, which is but slightly developed in young individuals ; its postero-inferior portion is formed of several sections united by a centre, around which they converge, presenting the appearance of a flower with many petals, or a calyx with, most usually, 7, 8, or 10 divisions. The sec- tions are not always equal. Their centre is occupied by a somewhat solid, granular sub- stance, which they more or less perfectly enclose. Its colour is generally whitish, or of a light pink. It lies free in a cavity hol- lowed out of the test, and is attached by a membranous peduncle to the stomach, or rather to the intestinal loop (Jig. 786. A, a, a, b and c e, e). These viscera are si- tuated posteriorly to the branchial sac. By their disposition they leave a free passage to the water which traverses the branchial ca- vity. The nerve-ganglion is present at the anterior extremity of the dorsal border of the branchial sac. From it there proceed filiform branches towards the neck of the external tubercle and in other directions. The vessel or sinus that runs between the two free edges of the branchiae is of considerable length, and has a slight general curve. It is divided, as it were, into four, towards its largest and an- terior portion, or rather seems to be com- posed of two contiguous vessels bent upon themselves. These diminish in calibre as they run backwards, and, passing into a delicate filiform vessel, are lost near the stomach. Two arching vessels, one on either side, pass from near the nerve-ganglion to the com- pressed oval bodies on the anterior lateral points of the branchiae, and a similar pair of vessels unite these latter bodies with the extremity of the loop formed by the vessel that lies between the free ventral margins of the branchiae. These four arched vessels form therefore a circlet around the anterior ex- tremity of the branchial sac (fig. 786. b, li). The heart is placed at the posterior part of the body, at the side of, and below, the visceral mass. Its character is perfectly analogous to that of the heart of other Ascidians. It con- tracts with the usual peristaltic movement, and changes periodically the direction of this vermicular movement, the vessels alternately playing the part of artery and vein. With regard to the generation ofthePyroso- midce, very little has yet been observed. Sa- vigny describes as "oviduct" and "siphon- canal" the vessels that occupy the usual position of the dorsal sinus, running along the dorsal or superior surface of the branchial sac (fig. 786. g,g). They have, however, no apparent connection either with the pre- sumed oviferous bodies situated at the an- terior points of the branchiae, or with the cavity posterior to the abdominal viscera occupied by the ova in Savigny's specimens (fig. 786. A, b). Lesueur discovered and described cer- tain globular, transparent bodies in Pyrosoma, situated near the liver (fig. 786. c, le), which he regarded as ova; these were noticed also by Savigny. Each enclosed four minute Py- rosomes, symmetrically disposed, and readily