1434 VESICULiE seminales. it miglit be different when it is lodged in the uterus or vagina of the female. For reasons given hereafter, I am led to believe that the quantity of actual semen from the testicles emitted at each copulation, is most probably very small, perhaps only three or four drops, at all events not more than the vas deferens is capable of containing. Such an extremely small quantity would be lost in the capacious canal of the urethra, or still more in the enormously capacious canal of the vagina, in the uterus, and in the Fallo- pian tubes. Some dilution, some addition to the volume, seems necessary in order to obtain an efficient injection of the life-giving fluid. And the quantity actually emitted by a man amounts, by all accounts, to two or three drachms. There has been an ad- dition somewhere. The prostate has doubt- less contributed its share, the tiny glands of Cowper theirs, the urethra has given its mite of mucus, more mucus is awaiting in the va- gina, and 1 believe that the vesiculae are not behind in adding a portion of their hoard of ready-formed mucus to the general stock. The spermatozoa huddled and crowded in countless millions in the vas deferens are now able to disport themselves at ease in the con- genial medium ; and the number contained in a few drops of pure semen would be sufficient to people abundantly several drachms of fluid. 1 am induced by these considerations to form the hypothesis that the office of the vesiculae is to secrete, and keep in store, a mucus of such a nature as is congenial to spermatozoa ; which answers the simple purpose of diluting the semen secreted in sparing quantities by the testicles. By di- luting I mean merely increasing the volume, not liquefying; for ihe mixed fluid is more viscid than pure semen. This hypothesis I would, however, have regarded as only pro- visional until more satisfactory evidence is obtained. It is the only one which the facts at present known warrant. One is much inclined to doubt that so singular an organ as the vesiculae is devoted to so simple a pur- pose. The prostate is generally believed to perform an exactly similar office ; and one is still more loth to believe that two organs so different in appearance as the prostate and vesicular have an identical function. But as I have advanced this hypothesis I proceed to defend it on these and other points. That organs, having the air of being very important, are sometimes engaged in per- forming a very simple and subordinate func- tion, is instanced by the salivary glands, which afford also an example of several distinct organs fulfilling exactly the same purpose : — the parotid, the submaxillary, the sublingual, and the numerous little buccal glands, all engaged in secreting a moistening and diluting fluid, which is not indispensably necessary. All these salivary glands are, however, very much alike in appearance and structure, whilst the vesiculae seminales do not in any way resemble the prostate. In reference to the human subject this remark is true, but not as regards many brute animals. In the guinea-pig the prostate is composed of nu- merous ramified caeca, but loosely bound together, and not very small in calibre, and the vesiculae really appear as though they were merely a couple of the prostatic caeca gigantically develo; ed. The secretion of these prostatic cceca is also exactly similar to that of the vesiculae. Objections to the iden- tity of the functions of two organs, based on the difference of their appearance, are completely answered by observing the enor- mous difference of appearance of the liver, for example, in vertebrata, compared with the liver of a crab or lobster ; or, what is more similar to the case under consideration, the large and remarkable gland that secretes the egg-shell in the ray-fish, compared with the part which secretes the egg-shell in birds, which is nothing more than just a peculiar villosity of one portion of the oviduct. It is not now my task to enquire into the function of the prostate, I am merely combatting an objection that may be raised to the hypothesis which I am advocating. The question very naturally suggests itself, how is it that the vesiculae are absent in several animals of the mammalian class ? In birds and reptiles there is no urethra, no vagina, no uterus for the semen to be lost in : the orifices of the vasa deferentia are brought into immediate apposition with those of the oviducts in the act of copulation ; but in the carnivora, where the vesiculae are indubitably absent, the semen has to find its way, meandering through all those labyrinths; and in the kangaroo, the wombat, &c, the males of which have no vesiculae, the vaginae of the females are remarkably Ion;;, double, and sin- gularly crooked (see Vol. III., fig. 138,). The answer to this is, the males of these animals possess a great number of glands (loc. cit. figs. 13.5, 13o'. and Vol. IV. fig. 875.), pouring their secretion into the urethra, which secretion, not improbably, serves the same purpose of dilution. W ith respect to the difference of the con- tents of the vesiculae in different animals, so obvious, for instance, in respect of their con- sistence or viscosit}', it should be remembered that we have evidence of a specific relation between the spermatozoa of a given species and the medium in which they are destined to float after their exit from the spermatic ap- paratus. I allude to the fact noticed in the article Semen (Vol. IV. p. 504-.), that the spermatozoa of a marine non-copulating species continue their movements in sea water, but become instantly motionless and dead when treated with fresh water, which has no inju- rious effect on the spermatozoa of freshwater species. This may, perhaps, also throw light upon the function of other accessory seminal glands. Every copulating species is probably able to supply, from one or several glands, a medium congenial to its own spermatozoa. There is then no special reservoir for semen in the human subject, nor in the great ma- jority of mammalian animals. What then