1007 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). much enlarged ; its head was filled with soft concrete matter, surrounding an irregular cavity with which a fistulous sinus com- municated ; its tail contained a similar sub- stance without any external opening. The various appearances described are depicted in the adjoining figure, which was taken from the recent specimen. Similar appearances to those noticed in this case have been described and figured by Cruveilhier, in his " Anatomie Pathologique." * He considers that the dis- ease proceeds from the head of the epidi- dymis towards the tail, and that the body of the testicle is affected only consecutively. I believe, myself, that the yellow deposit is the ordinary result of chronic inflammation of the testicle in whatever way produced ; but that the peculiar appearances noticed in the case just related and likewise described by Cru- veilhier, — I mean the small isolated masses in the substance of the gland, and radiating towards the mediastinum, — are only observed in those cases in which the disease originates in the epididymis, and thence spreads to the body of the testicle, and in which the part is examined before the organ has become ex- tensively diseased. These appearances are not often seen, because it is not often that it becomes necessary to remove a testicle in such a condition, which is indeed a curable one unless complicated with suppuration. Cruveilhier supposes that this matter is effu- sed in the areolar tissue of the testicle, and radiates along the fibrous prolongations from the corpus Highmori. I feel satisfied, however, from my own observations, that he is mis- taken, and that the interior of the tubuli is the original seat of the deposit. This yellow substance has been called the yellow tubercle of the testis ; but, as it differs from tubercular deposit, the term is objectionable and liable to lead to error. It is evidently coagulable lymph, which becomes more solid in the testicle than in most other parts, owing, per- haps, to the condensation consequent on the firm resistance offered to any enlargement of the gland by the unyielding tunica albuginea. This disease is often accompanied with effu- sion of serum into the tunica vaginalis, seldom amounting, however, to more than three or four ounces. Lymph also is sometimes de- posited, and the sac may become partially, or totally obliterated by adhesions. The peculiar matter effused in this disease under appropriate treatment undergoes com- plete absorption, the testicle being left in a condition to perform its natural functions. It sometimes happens, however, that ulcera- tion ensues in its tunics and integuments, and that a fungous-looking growth gradually pro- trudes through the opening which is thus formed. This fungous growth is sometimes termed granular sive/ling ; it has also received the name of liernia testis, being formed in a manner very analogous to that of a hernia cerebri, in which the substance of the brain is protruded through an ulcerated opening in • Liv. v. pi. b., and liv. ix. pi. i. the dura mater. It appears that the yellow deposit after some time excites ulceration in some part of the tunica albuginea. The tunica vaginalis, and afterwards the skin, become adherent at this spot, and likewise inflame and ulcerate. The resistance afforded by the dense unyielding tunica albuginea being thus removed, the adventitious deposit gradually presses out the tubular structure, which forms a projecting tumour consisting of the tubuli mixed up with this yellow substance, and also of ordinary granulations which spring up from the seminiferous structure. This projecting growth presents an ash or yellowish-white ap- pearance, varied by irregular patches of a pale red hue, and sometimes of black. It is closely girt by the scrotum, the ulcerated edges of which are often thickened and everted, {fig. 651.) Fig. 651. The mass often projects so much that scarcely any part of the organ is contained within the scrotum. Though this hernial growth occurs most frequently in an advanced stage of the chronic form of inflammation, it is developed in other diseases of the organ which occasion ulceration of the tunica albuginea, and thus afford an opening for the escape of its con- tents. It is occasionally the result of an attack of acute inflammation supervening upon the chronic disease, and terminating in suppuration in the substance of the gland. In a case of this kind, in addition to the glan- dular swelling, there are sinuses more or less numerous, which burrow in the interior of the organ, and discharge pus mingled with the yellow matter. An attack of orchitis, origin- ally acute, going on to suppuration, is also liable to be followed by a fungous protrusion of the secreting structure of the gland. In the latter case, the growth is not so exube- rant, and the seminiferous structure is more distinctly apparent, owing to the absence of the yellow matter ; but there are generally sinuses which furnish a purulent discharge, sometimes mixed with semen. Tubercular matter deposited in the testicle may also lead to suppuration, and the formation of a granu- lar swelling. A testicle after becoming somewhat en- larged from chronic inflammation, often con- tinues indolent and stationary for years, giving rise to very little inconvenience. On examining the organ in this state, the yellow adventitious deposit is found to possess con-