1398 VEIN. The first species simply includes a general predominance of the venous system,— a dis- proportionate size of the veins. It is of very frequent occurrence, and is indicated by a plethora or distinctness of the veins of the subcutaneous system. This is often seen in the veins of the back of the hand. It is not to be considered strictly morbid, — it is in many individuals an original conformation, and in others merely temporary, the result of warmth, strong exercise, pressure on a venous trunk, ccc. It is common, nay gene- ral, in old people, though the healthiest. It may be here observed that the capacity of veins, as well as that of arteries, increases with age. The second species represents a condition unquestionably morbid. It consists in a dila- tation of the vein at the expense of its walls, they becoming attenuated in proportion to the increase of the vessel's calibre. This appears to consist essentially in a separating of the longitudinal fibres of the outer coat, by which the internal membrane is permitted to dilate or protrude. The dilatation is seldom cy- lindrical, it is usually unequal and in pouches. These pouches are usually more or less globular or oval; sometimes, however, they are con- stricted, or form pear-shaped, or even pedun- culated, tumours. The third and fourth species of AndraFs division are modifications of the same condi- tion, and seem to be in many cases the direct but gradual result of the first. Whether the dilatation be general and equable, or partial and irregular, the thickening is confined to the dilated portion, and is doubtless a re- parative condition, — an effort to resist by increased strength of the vessel's walls any further stretching ; and it may be ob- served that in this thickened form of phlebec- tesis, those large, pouchy, and tumour-like, dilatations do not occur. In these forms the dilatation is more regular and cylindrical, or increasing somewhat evenly in passing from one part of the vein to another. In almost all these cases there is increased length, some- times very considerable, so as to make the vein assume a serpentine or tortuous course; in some instances the vein remains perfectly straight. The increased thickness arises from the superaddition of fibrous tissue in the ex- ternal coat, probably developed from a sub- inflammatory plastic exudation among the normal tissue of the outer coat, itself an effect of the stretching, in the dilataiion of the vein. The amount of thickening varies in different cases: in those fullv formed it is often very considerable. The increased thickness of the vessel's walls prevents it from collapsing when cut through : it remains patent like an artery. The colour of its tissue differs, however, from the arterial; it is reddish white, and pale,like the normal venous tissue. Besides thickening of the coats of the veins, they become inde- finite and very hard ; the outer coat becomes completely blended with the areolar tissue of the sheath of the vessels; by this means the walls, which are often thicker than those of an artery of the same size, are with difficulty pressed together. As regards the fifth species, I agree with Hasse, that it more deserves to be considered as a mere variety of the others than as itself distinct. TUe septa are probably not new formations. The sixth species, whilst it evidently refers to a particular form of venous dilataiion, is obviously misdescribed ; the minute holes " drilled in the sides of the veins" in this spe- cies being in reality nothing more than the mouths of small and dilated veins, whose di- lated and attenuated walls are not easily re- cognised, and thus the blood is thought to escape into the cellular tissue. To these may be added certain varieties of erectile tumour, which consists essentially of modified capillaries, but on which the venous character is conspicuously impressed. In these cases there are oval or spheroidal tumours of a bluish or purple colour. They are composed of dilated capillary veins, which are supplied by enlarged arteries. The veins are stretched into saccules and crypts, and the blood is re- moved from them in veins disproportioned to the size of the affected part, and often them- selves varicose. Having considered phlebectesis in general, I may conveniently devote some remarks to a few of the special forms of varix. Varices of the Leg. — Varices of the lower extremity usually occur after the commence- ment of adult life. They are generally the result of habitual toil in the erect posture; they result also from obstruction to the cir- culation ; and a not unfrequent source of ob- struction has of late been displayed in the fascia lata that forms the saphenous opening. Briquet has shown that this affection is more common amongst males than females. In 258 males examined by him 71 had varix of the leg; in 485 females, 42 were affected. There is another distinction in the disease as it appears in the two sexes ; in man one trunk is usually affected, or, at all events, the disease is confined to vessels of larger size; whereas in the female, the smaller cutaneous twigs are generally the subject of the disease, and then present an elaborate series of purple ramifica- tions, very superficial and distinct ; and often associated with the latter are circumscribed local varices of greater size. This is the ge- neral rule, but it is liable to exceptions ; each form may occur in either sex, but the latter is almost always confined to the female. This circumstance was, I believe, first pointed out by Hasse. It is unusual for all the veins of the leg to become varicose ; it is usually confined to one branch of the internal saphena : the external saphena may however likewise be affected, or several branches of each. It is uncommon for them to be affected symmetrically ; the right leg, according to Briquet, is most generally the subject of varix. Varices of the leg are arranged in various forms : in some cases they consist of packets of folded and reduplicated tubes, which, not a