142.3 VESICULA PROSTATICA. * Op. Cit. p. 49. pletely developed, and possesses an internal is hindered from penetrating the vasa defe- rentia. In order to this, the urine must, like the semen in the previous view, enter into the vesicle, which, distended by it, must by its own pressure close the ejaculatory canals. Hence the same difficulties recur as in the first case. Since the urethra contains urine only during the act of micturition, and is at other times empty and collapsed, this fluid must, even in its passage through the tube by which it is discharged, pass into the vesi- culu: a fact which is the less supposable, inasmuch as to this end a backward move- ment of the urine would be necessary. Be- sides in many cases the situation of the Weberian organ is such that, even if distended by a fluid, it could not possibly operate in such a way. And moreover, even where it might perhaps be possible, it seems unneces- sary, since the tumid or papillary margins of the orifices of the vasa deferentia are suf- ficiently closed by the passage of the urine itself. One other conjecture of the physiologi- cal value of the Weberian organ still remains to us, — viz. that it is a secretory appa- ratus. It was found by the older anatomists that here and there, for instance in the horse, it was filled with a thick fluid, mostly of a yellow tint. As was previously remarked, this can only be secreted by the coats of the Weberian organ. Morgagni mentioned that the inner clothing of the organ was a mucous membrane, and possessed a glandular texture ; and the later researches of Huschke and Leydig have succeeded in verifying a number of small glands therein. These glandules have a different form in the different animals ; for instance, in the rabbit they are simply spherical ; in the boar they are elongated tubes provided with buds and processes. Whether such glandules always exist in the Weberian organ must be verified by further careful researches. Leydig could not find them in the dolphin, nor could I in the dog. At any rate they are absent where, as in the deer, &c, the cavity has disappeared. Exteriorly to this mucous membrane, which possesses a layer of cylindrical cells as an epithelium, there is a layer of smooth mus- cular fibres, which take tiie longitudinal di- rection. In the hare only, in whom they form a considerable layer, especially at the lower end, they are more twisted together. It is evident that this latter arrangement is connected with the import of their Weberian organ as a seminal vesicle. At all events they are thus susceptible of more powerful contractions, which one may produce in the recently dead animal by galvanic and other stimuli for a considerable time. Together with these muscular fibres there is a quantity of areolar tissue with white and yellow fibres. This sometimes predominates, and where the cavity disappears, it seems to occur alone. It can no longer be doubted that the Weberian organ, at least where it is com- cavity and an opening, may prepare a secre- tion ; but the nature and physiological import of the secretion are as yet unknown to us. H. Meckel* states, that he once found a clear vitreous mass in the Weberian organ of the rabbit, which from its re-actions was gelatine. Nevertheless it is very improbable that the secretion always consists of this sub- stance, at least if I can judge from its external physical properties. This secretion may easily be carried away from time to time with the urine or the sperm. Whether it plays any further part — whether it is possibly, like the secretion of the prostate, subservient to the dilution of the semen (as may be conjectured from the arrangement of the Weberian organ in the hare) or to other purposes, we know not. After all, however, the function of the secretion can scarcely be an important one. III. Morphology. — It is impossible that we should be quite satisfied with what we have learnt above concerning the physiological value of the Weberian organ. Granting that, in some instances, it serves as a seminal re- ceptacle, that in others it delivers up the pro- duct of secretion, still its essential import is certainly not thus exhausted. It seems that the application of the Weberian organ to this or that end is but a casual result of its general situation, rather than that it constitutes a sufficient reason for its presence. We are constrained to adopt such a view by the cir- cumstance, that the Weberian organ is fre- quently devoid of all connection with other structures, and is even sometimes reduced to a ligamentous thread, the functional value of which one cannot imagine. Thus the Weberian organ takes a rank amongst that class of structures which possess not so much a prominent functional value, as a morphological import ; which are neces- sitated not so much by the actual require- ments of life as by the general typical plan of the structure. Should any one deny tiie existence of such a class of structures, it would only be necessary to remind him of the wing-stumps of many apterous insects, of the bony girdle for the extremities of the blind worm, of the embryonal teeth in the bearded whale. All these are parts which are of scarcely any physiological value to the animals named, although, under different cir- cumstances, and in other animals they fulfil the most important functions: they are simply- morphological rudiments, which, according to the common architectonic law, are repeated even where they are useless. But such parts are found, not merely in particular animals and groups, but also es- pecially in the different sexes. Of what use to the male individual are the milk-glands and teats ? of what use to the female the well- known rudimentary penis called the clitoris ? Are they not the plainest indications that the male and female organs are constructed after a common type, and that it is only by different developments of the same elements that they