919 TEETH. 3 n 4 minor particulars in which it differs from the dentition of the Orang, approaches nearer the human type. In the upper jaw the middle incisors (jig. 586, I 1) are smaller, the lateral ones (ib. i. 2 ) larger than those of the Orang *; they are thus more nearly equal to each other; nevertheless the proportional superiority of the middle pair is much greater than in Man, and the proportional size of the four incisors both to the entire skull and to the other teeth is greater. Each incisor has a prominent posterior basal ridge, and the outer angle of the lateral incisors, i. 2, is rounded off as in the Orang. The incisors incline forwards from the vertical line as much as in the great Orang. Thus the characteristics of the human incisors are, in addition to their true incisive wedge-like form, their near equality teeth " *, when the mouth is closed, is appli- cable only to the female, and does not distin- guish the Chimpanzees from the Orangs. In the male of the smaller Chimpanzee {Troglody- tes niger) the upper canine is conical, pointed, but more compressed than in the Orang, and with a sharper posterior edge ; convex ante- riorly, becoming natter at the posterior half of the outer surface, and concave on the corre- sponding part of the inner surface, which is traversed by a shallow longitudinal impres- sion ; a feeble longitudinal rising and a second linear impression divide this from the convex anterior surface, which also bears a longitu- dinal groove at the base of the crown. The canine is rather more than twice the size of that in the female. In the male Gorilla {figs. 585, 586.), the crown of the canine is Fis. 587. Dentition of adult female, Troglodytes Gorilla. {Nictural size.} of size, their vertical or nearly vertical posi- tion, and small relative size to the other teeth and to the entire skull. The diastema be- tween the incisors and the canine on each side is as well marked in the male Chim- panzee as in the male Orang.f The crown of the canine (ib. <\), passing outside the in- terspace between the lower canine and pre- molar, extends in the male Troglodytes Gorilla a little below the alveolar border of the under jaw when the mouth is shut ; the upper ca- nine of the male Troglodytes niger likewise projects a little below that border ; the seventh character, therefore, which I had formerly assigned to the genus, " apices of canines lodged in intervals of the opposite * Compare fig. 586. with pi. xxxii. {Pithceus Wurmbil) ami pi. xxxiv. {Pith. Morio}, in vol. ii. Zool. Trans. f Compare./iij. 586. with pi. xxxii. {Pith. Wurm- bii) in vol. ii. Zool. Trans. more inclined outwards : the anterior groove on the inner surface of the crown is deeper ; the posterior groove is continued lower down upon the fang, and the ridge between the two grooves is more prominent than in the Troglodytes niger. Both premolars {fig. 586. p. 3 and p. 4) are bicuspid ; the outer cusp of the first and the inner cusp of the second being the largest, and the first premolar consequently appearing the largest on an external view {fig. 585.). The difference is well marked in the female (Jig. 587, p. 3, p. 4). The anterior ex- ternal angle of the first premolar is not pro- duced as in the Orang, which in this respect makes a marked approach to the lower Qua- drumana. In Man, where the outer curve of the premolar part of the dental series is greater than the inner one, the outer cusps of both premolars are the largest ; the alternating su- periority of size in the Chimpanzee accords * Zool. Trans, vol. i. p. 372.