SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 815 vessels; others (as Cruveilhier) insist upon the clavicle as the line of demarcation between these two great trunks ; but the stages above assigned to the subclavian arteries are strictly in accordance with the views of British ana- tomical authorities. The subclavian vein may be divided into tivo stages, which correspond to the second and third stages of the artery ; at the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle on each side of the neck, the subclavian joins the in- ternal jugular vein to form the vena inno- minata (of Meckel), which latter vein conse- quently coiresponds to the first stage of the subclavian artery. As the right and left subclavian arteries differ from each other essentially in their first stage, it is necessary to describe them sepa- rately in this portion of their course. First stage of the right subclavian artery. — This portion of the vessel varies from one to two inches in length ; it extends from the summit of the arteria innominata to the tra- cheal edge of the anterior scalenus muscle, and passes in a direction outwards, and slightly upwards. At its commencement it lies to the right of the trachea, and is concealed by the sterno-clavicular articulation. In this stage the artery is contained in the antero-inferior triangle of the neck. The fol- lowing structures here constitute its anterior relations, and are described in the order in which they present themselves in dissection : — The skin, and subcutaneous cellular stra- tum, with one sheet of the cervical fascia, being divided, the tendon of the sterno-mas- toid muscle (sternal origin) is exposed : be- hind it is a cellular interval of constant ex- istence, though of variable extent, where anastomosing veins and small arterial twigs ramify. The outer edges of the sterno-hyoid and of the sterno-thyroid muscles are more deeply placed ; the latter extends much fur- ther outwards than the former, and hence it more directly overhangs and conceals the subclavian artery. These muscles are con- tained in distinct sheaths (furnished by the deep cervical fascia), which isolate them, as well from the superficial as from the deeper- seated parts : the layer of l'ascia which forms the back of the sheath of the sterno-thyroid muscle is the deepest lamina of the cervical aponeurosis; towards the middle line it in- vests the front of the trachea, and the deep thyroid veins; externally,it covers the carotid and subclavian arteries, with their accompany- ing veins, and is connected, to the scalenus anticus muscle, whilst, interiorly, it is attached to the clavicle, to the sternum, and to the " thoracico-cervical septum," through the in- tervention of which it is connected with the fibrous layer of the pericardium. On the removal of this fascia from the region under consideration, the immediate anterior relations of the subclavian artery are exhibited ; they are as follow : — a. The right vena innominata, its satellite vein, lies anterior to the artery in the first stage of its course, but on a lower plane, and separated from it by the phrenic and vagus nerves, and by the internal mammary artery. b. The internal jugular vein, which passes downwards and outwards into the subclavian vein, in order to form with it the right vena innominata, crosses the front of the artery nearly at right angles : an interval (the result of the inclination outwards of the internal jugular vein) occurs between this vein and the common carotid artery ; and here c. The vagus nerve passes over the sub- clavian artery ; whilst internal to this point the subclavian artery is enveloped in a. nervous sheath, formed of d. The cardiac filaments of the sympathetic nerve.* e. Lastly, the phrenic nerve constitutes an important anterior relation of the subclavian artery, passing anterior to the very last por- tion of the first stage of the vessel, though not in contact with it. The trajet of the nerve is external to that of the internal jugular vein, which, as before mentioned, crosses the same aspect of the artery. There is no actual contact between the phrenic nerve and the subclavian artery, because the nerve, as it leaves the inner margin of the scalenus an- ticus muscle, lies on and crosses the origin of the mammary artery, which thus separates the nerve in question from the trunk of the subclavian. The relation of f The vertebral vein, to the subclavian ar- tery, is subject to much variety. According to the descriptions of most anatomists, it passes posterior to the artery; but the writer has found this vein nearly as often in front of the artery as behind it; and occasionally he has seen the vertebral vein terminate in two branches, of which one passed on the anterior, and the other on the posterior aspect of the subclavian artery, so as to encircle that vessel before they opened into the vena innominata. When the vertebral vein is single, and passes over the front of the subclavian artery, it usually lies internal and parallel to the in- ternal jugular vein. The anterior relations of the first stage of the right subclavian artery, are, therefore, the fol- lowing : — 1. Integument, subcutaneous areolar tissue, fascia. 2. Sterno-mastoid muscle, sterno-clavi- cular articulation. 3. Sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, iso- lated from one another, and from the last-named muscle, by layers of the cervical fascia. 4. The deep layer of the cervical aponeurosis. 5. The phrenic and vagus nerves, and the cardiac filaments of the sympathetic nerve. G. The right innominate, and internal jugu- lar veins, and sometimes 7. The vertebral vein. The remaining relations of the artery in its first stage are the following: — Infcriorly, it corresponds to the loop of the * Vide art. Neck, vol. iii. note to p. 575.