1120 TONGUE. that of the neighbouring articulation of the ankle. In fact, on the perfect adaptation of the bones of the leg, at their lower extremities, essentially depends the integrity of the ankle joint itself. By the union of the tibia with the fibula the "mortice shaped" cavity, which receives the pulley of the astragalus, is formed, and any injuries which disturb the natural rela- tions of these two bones interfere propor- tionally with the functions of the ankle, which is a perfect angular ginglymus. Hence it is, that in some cases of fracture of the lower end of the fibula, a widening of the mortice is produced, from which more or less of permanent deformity and inconve- nience results, abnormal lateral motion being then permitted. The connecting media be- tween the tibia and the fibula interiorly are of extreme strength ; so much so, that noordinary violence seems capable of rupturing them ; the bones being bound together, not only by the special ligaments of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation already described, but by the annular ligaments and fascia; of the leg also. Hence, as we might infer, the separation of these bones by injury has never been observed, except when the fibula has first been broken. In the "complete dislocation of the Toot up- wards and outwards, we are furnished with an illustration of the immense strength of the interosseous ligament ; as it is found that even in this severe injury the fibres of this ligament are not usually torn ; but the rough surface of the tibia into which they are implanted is broken off, and carried upwards and outwards with the lower end of the fibula, to which the interosseous ligament still binds it." (See b. fig. 54. vol. i. page 157 ; article " Abnormal Conditions of the Ankle Joint.") {Ben. George M'Bowel.) TONGUE. (rXwcwrr, Gr.; Lingua, Lat. ; la Langue, Fr. ; Zunge, Germ. ; Lingua, Ital.) The tongue is a symmetrical muscular organ, situated in the middle line, at the ori- fice of the gastric portion of the gastro- pulmonary mucous membrane, invested with the mucous surface, and subserving to the earlv stages of the process of digestion. Human Anatomy.—The human tongue (in common with that of all mammalia) consists of, first, an osseous basis, itself movable, to which it is attached, and with which and on which it moves ; secondly, a muscular system, in part extrinsic, serving to attach it to certain fixed points and to move it on them, and in part intrinsic, constituting the bulk of its substance and moving it on it- self; thirdly, a mucous investment, variously modified in different parts ; fourthly, a pro- per system of mucous glands ; fifthly, a small quantity of fibrous and areolar tissue ; sixthly, a still smaller quantity of fat; seventhly, a large vascular supply ; and eighthly, an abun- dant distribution of nerves from three separate sources. Size. — The size of the tongue is very va- rious. I have examined some tongues of adults that certainly were not more than half the size of others, and there does not seem to be any relation between the size of the tongue and that of the individual; but between it and the size of the alveolar arch there is a close relation, and hence we see it generally much smaller in women than in men. It has been generally stated that certain obscurities in speech are caused by too large a tongue, but there do not seem to be any well authen- ticated cases to prove that this supposition is correct. It may in some degree be explained by the fact, that paralysis, which would cause a thickness of speech, would also cause a flaccid half-protruded condition, and, there- fore, an apparent increase of size, of the tongue. Direction. — In its anterior half it follows pretty much the direction of the lower jaw, that is, it tends forwards and a little down- wards, but behind this it curves downwards and backwards, and ere it reaches the os hyoides has become quite vertical, so that the average of its direction would be downwards and backwards, and its posterior extremity much lower than its anterior. Shape. —The tongue is of an ovoidal shape, the broad part being behind ; and the character of the curvature in front is parabolic, coin- ciding with the parabolic curve of the lower jaw : it possesses an exact lateral symmetry, and is flattened from above downwards, being thickest towards its base, and thinnest in front. When taken out of the body it seems to be flat, and in the same plane longitudin- ally, but when in situ it possesses a double curvature; one longitudinal, the most consi- derable, by which the upper surface is rendered convex, and by which the posterior part of the tongue is bent from a horizontal to a ver- tical direction ; the other, less considerable, affects the tongue transversely, and renders its posterior part concave in that direction : it is much increased by the contraction of the genioglossi, which draw the centre of the tongue down, or by that of the styloglossi, which draw its sides up. The longitudinal curvature, too, is very much affected by the position of the tongue, for when it is thrust forward, and the hyoid bone raised, the whole organ is much more horizontal, and the cur- vature almost effaced. General description. — In consequence of its possessing a long axis, and being vertically flattened, the tongue presents for description a superior and inferior surface, two lateral borders, arid an anterior and posterior extremity. The superior surface, borders, anterior ex- tremity, ami anterior third of the inferior sur- face are free; the posterior extremity and posterior two thirds of the inferior surface are attached. Along the line where the free and attached surfaces meet, we see the investing membrane leaving the tongue, and passing off to neighbouring structures, investing the loose areolar tissue by which in these situations it is underlaid, and forming a system of yielding and movable attachments. Thus at the base the mucous membrane passes off to the an-