TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). 988 form of a blindly-ending canal running tor- tuously in the shape of the letter S. The left testicle was sound.* Mr. Paget has happily explained the origin of these several defects in the vas deferens, by reference to the mode of development of the special organs of generation. He observes+, after Muller and Valentin, that, in the normal course of human development the proper ge- nital organs are in either sex developed in two distinct pieces : namely, the part for the for- mation of the generative substance, the testicle or ovary, and the part for the conveyance of that substance out of the body, the seminal duct or ovi-duct. The testicle or ovary as the case may be, (and in their earliest periods they cannot be distinguished), is formed on the inner concave side of the corpus Wolffianum, and the seminal or ovi-duct, which is originally an isolated tube closed at both extremities, passes along the outer border of that body from the level of the formative organ above to the cloaca or common sinus of the urinary, genital, and digestive systems below. The perfection of development is attained only by the conducting tube acquiring its just connec- tions at once with the formative organ, and, through the medium of the cloaca, with the exterior of the body. The sexual character is first established, when, in the male, the for- mative and conducting organs become con- nected by the development of intermediate tubes which constitute the epididymis ; or when in the female, a simple aperture is formed at the upper extremity of the conducting tube, and is placed closely adjacent to the formative organ. In both sexes alike, the lower ex- tremities of the conducting tubes first open into the common cloaca, and subsequently, when that cavity is partitioned into bladder and rec- tum, or bladder, vagina, and rectum, they ac- quire in each their just connections, and become in the male the perfect vasa deferentia, and in the female the Fallopian tubes and uterus. The inquiry is not without interest, what influence have these deficiencies and imperfec- tions in the vas deferens on the evolution and subsequent condition of the testicle ? In the case of the adult which occurred at St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, the testicle was small, and its structure appeared granular, like the undeveloped testicle of a youth, but as it had not descended into the scrotum, and was com- bined with hernia, there may have been other causes impeding its due evolution. In Mr. Hunter's case, the testicles which were in the scrotum were very sound. In the case of the man related by Brugnone, the testicle on the side corresponding to the defective vas de- ferens was perfectly sound, and nearly of the same size as the other. So also in Bosscha's case, it is stated, that the testicle was sound. Although either of these defects in the vas deferens renders the gland an useless organ, * Diss, sistens Obs. de vesieulaj seminalis sinis- tra defectu, integris testibus, vase vero deferente clauso, quoted by Dr. Vrolik, Handboek der Ontleed- kundige Ziektekunde, 1st Deel. p. 210. f Loe. cit. p. 818. and if it occurred on both sides of the body, would necessarily cause impotency, these cases, nevertheless, tend to shew that the absence or imperfection of the excretory duct does not prevent the development of the tes- ticle at the proper period, and has no direct influence in causing it to waste; and these inferences are fully confirmed by experiments on animals, performed by Sir A. Cooper and by myself.* These cases and experiments show, then, that the testicles maybe properly developed, though a physical obstacle to the elimination of their secretion is present from birth ; and that so long as the testicles exist entire, though to no purpose, the individual acquires and preserves all the marks of the male sex ; the secretory organ alone appear- ing to be that upon which the sexual charac- ters depend. The engorgement of the se- minal ducts with sperm is liable, it is true, to cause inflammation of the testicle, which may end in atrophy, but this is only a secondary and occasional effect of the interruption in the excretory duct. Imperfect transition. — It occasionally hap- pens that at birth one or both testicles have not passed into the scrotum, being detained either in the abdomen near the groin, in the inguinal canal, or in the groin, just outside the external ring. In a table of one hundred and three male infants, examined by Wrisbergat the time of birth, it appears that seventy-three had both testicles in the scrotum ; in twenty-one, one or both were in the groin. Of these, five had both, seven the right, and nine the left in the groin ; in twelve, four had both, three the right, five the left, only in the abdomen.f According to this table, the imperfection occurs rather more frequently on the left side than on the right, in the proportion of seven to five. In twenty-five cases examined at different ages, varying from five to sixty, — sixteen of which came under my own observation, the remainder being taken from the recorded experience of others, — in thirteen the imperfection was on the right side, and in twelve on the left. Dr. Marshall states, that in the examination of 10,800 recruits, he had found five in whom the right, and six in whom the left testicle was not apparent. In two of these cases there was inguinal hernia on the side where the tes- ticle had not descended. J He met with but one instance in which both testicles had not appeared. $ The testicle sometimes remains permanently fixed in the situation in which it is placed at birth || ; but in some instances the passage, though delayed, is completed at some period previous to puberty, and often within a few weeks after birth. Mr. Hunter was of opinion that this completion most frequently * Vide Sir A. Cooper on Anatomy of the Testis, p. 51., and my Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis, p. 64, and seq. f Commentatio Soc. Reg. Scient. Goetting. 1778. % Hints to Young Medical Officers in the Army, p. 83. § Ibid. p. 207. || Persons whose testicles had not made their ap- pearance were called zfv^opxilt;, or iesticondi, by the ancients.