1412 VENOUS SYSTEM. space. It is consequently situated between the artery and the posterior tibial nerve. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. Its coats are stated by Cruveilhier and others to be of more than ordinary thick- ness. The femoral vein is the continuation of the poplitceal, which latter vessel, having passed through the tendinous opening in the adduc- tor muscles, enters the thigh, and becomes femoral. In the lower third of the thigh the femoral vein and artery (enclosed in a com- mon sheath) are contained in " Hunter's canal," the vein lying, as in the ham, posterior and external to the artery. In the centre of the thigh the vein is placed directly behind the artery ; but throughout its upper third the two vessels lie side by side, and in close con- nection, the vein being the more internal. A thin, fibrous septem derived from the sheath which surrounds them passes backwards, and separates these vessels at this part of their course. The point of the aneurism needle is apt to be entangled by this partition, in con- veying a ligature round the femoral artery, if care be not taken to keep the instrument on its outer or arterial side, whilst at the same time the sheath is kept tense. At the highest point of its course, just where it is about to pass beneath Poupart's ligament, the femoral vein constitutes the external boundary of the crural ring, and would therefore neces- sarily bear the same relation to the neck of any hernial tumour which may have descended through this aperture. In its course through the thigh, the femoral vein is joined by nu- merous muscular branches, also by the profunda vein, about an inch and a half below the crural arch, and, lastly, by the internal saphena vein. Its valves are from three to five in number. Beneath Poupart's ligament the femoral becomes continuous with the external iliac vein. The external iliac vein, whilst it accom- panies the external iliac artery, and holds the same relation to surrounding parts as that vessel, is nevertheless differently related to its artery on the right and left side. As these vessels lie on the horizontal ramus of the pubis, their relative positions at both sides is the same, the vein being placed internal to the artery. On the left side this relation does not alter, and the vein lies on the inner side of the artery throughout its whole course ; on the right side, however, the vein, in its ascent, passes first behind the artery, and then appears slightly to its outer side. The interned circumflex ilii and the two deep epigastric veins join the external iliac vein at the commencement of its course im- mediately above Poupart's ligament. The former holds a remarkable relation to the ex- ternal iliac artery, for it crosses that vessel at right angles to its anterior surface, and thus separates the artery from the fascia transver- salis. The infernal iliac vein is formed in the cavity of the pelvis by the union of the veins which correspond to the numerous divisions of the internal iliac artery, —viz. by the glulaeal, sciatic, internal pudic, and obturator veins, all of which arise external to the pelvis; and by numerous branches from the viscera contained within the pelvis, and which are remarkable for their plexiform arrangement. Of these, the vesical veins form a plexus which surrounds the neck of the bladder, and the prostate gland (vesico-prostatic plexus), receives the blood from the dorsal veins of the penis, and communicates freely with the inferior hemor- rhoidal veins. In the female a similar plexus receives veins from the clitoris and the labia, and in addition there are two others, still more remarkable for their development, — the vaginal plexus, which surrounds the vagina near its commencement, and communicates with the vesical plexus in front, and with the haemorrhoidal veins behind, and the uterine plexus, the veins of which are scarcely ap- parent except during gestation, and which communicate with the ovarian veins. In both sexes the lower extremity of the rectum is surrounded by the ramifications of the hemorrhoidal plexus, the blood of which is returned to the internal iliac vein by the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal veins. This plexus likewise communicates freely with the superior hemorrhoidal veins, which unite with the inferior meseraic veins, and so constitute a part of the portal system. In all these vessels valves exist in great numbers, although none occur in the great trunks in which they terminate. The internal iliac vein on each side is in- ternal to its corresponding artery. The common iliac veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac veins. The junction takes place opposite the sacro- iliac symphisis. These veins exhibit on each side some interesting anatomical peculiarities. The right common iliac vein, nearly vertical in its direction, is placed posterior and external, to its corresponding artery. The left common iliac vein, larger than the preceding, and nearly transverse in its direction, lies internal, and inferior, to its corresponding artery, and crosses behind the common iliac artery of the right side. The common iliac veins usually unite upon the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebras, to form the vena cava inferior. The junction occurs to the right of the mesial line, and inferior to, as well as to the right of, the angle of bifurcation of the aorta.* The collateral branches of the common iliac veins are the following : — (a) The itio-lumbar vein.—This vein arises in the iliac fossa, by radiating branches, which * The junction of the venoe innominate to form the superior vena cava, as well as that of the com- mon iliac veins to form the inferior vena cava, oc- curs on the right of the mesial line of the body. In the former instance, the uniting veins are found on a plane anterior to the arterial trunks which they accompany; whilst in the latter they lie be- hind them.