TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. 937 condition of the frame. These peculiarities react to a certain extent upon the mind, and more or less aid or clog its workings, but cer- tain powers and modes of action of the mind are by no means so constantly associated with certain states of body, as to connect the men- tal and bodily states as cause and effect. It is true that the sanguine temperament is ge- nerally accompanied by a mind exhibiting certain characters, but the exceptions to this are so numerous that we cannot assign the corporeal state as the cause of the mental — nor vice versa. Bodily peculiarities are in- finitely more frequently inherited than mental, — the powers and activity of the mind are greatly determined by education and training; but those qualities of body which give a cha- racter to its temperament are born with it; and although they may be modified by exter- nal influences, they are yet at all times suf- ficiently distinct to prove them to be inherent physical properties of the entire organism. At the same time it seems reasonable to admit that the mind has its temperaments, as the body has, and in a great measure inde- pendently, and the terms, sanguine, melan- cholic, phlegmatic, and choleric, may be severally applied to them, according as the emotions and feelings, and the intellectual actions vary in their modes and degrees of developement, and in their rate of working. (R. B. Todd.) TEMPORO-M AXILLARY ARTICU- LATION.—Under this heading I propose to give a brief account of the jointing of the lower maxilla to the cranium. This joint can- not, of course, be identified out of the verte- bruta. The mandibles and maxillae of the ar- ticulata are not homologous with the jaws of vertebrate animals, and the slit of their mouths is placed vertically not horizontally. In the human subject, as in all mammalia, this articulation takes place between the squamous portion of the temporal (squamosal) and the inferior maxillary bones. The description of the anatomy of the human temporo-maxillary joint comprises, therefore, that of the diarthro- dial articular surfaces of those bones, and also of the following parts : viz., the interarticuiar fibro-cartilage, the two synovial sacs, the ex- ternal and internal lateral and other liga- ments, and part of the insertion of the external pterygoid muscle. Bones. — The articular condyle of the lower jaw is sub-cylindroid in form, its length from side to side being greater than its antero-pos- terior measurement. The axis of this cjlinder, however, is set neither directly from side to side, nor yet exactly level, its inner part being posterior to and below its outer; so that if the axes of the two condyles were produced inwards till they met, they would form an angle in doing so, which would point down- wards and backwards, — reaching the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The carti- lage that encrusts this condyle extends further down behind than in front. The surface to which this condyle is (mediately) articulated forms a part of the glenoid fossa, and is situated just below the base of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, between its roots. It has such form as, in respect of the set of its axis, and its tranverse measurement, pretty accurately fits the condyle. It has, however, a greater antero-posterior extent, in accordance with the capability which this joint normally pos- sesses, in addition to the usual ginglymoid motion, of an antero-posterior gliding to and fro of the condyle — a kind of normal disloca- tion. The glenoid fossa of the temporal bone contains a portion of the parotid gland, as well as the condyle of the inferior maxilla ; the former occupies that portion of it which is posterior to the glasserian fissure, whilst that part which is anterior to the glasserian fissure, is lined with cartilage for the articulation of the latter. In man there is usually no bony ridge bounding this articular surface pos- teriorly, such as is generally found in the lower mammalia. The ridge that bounds it anteriorly is formed by the inferior root of the zygoma, and the cartilage is continued some way on to this ridge. Externally it is limited by a tubercle on the zygoma, which serves for the attach- ment of the external lateral ligament of the joint. Interarticuiar fibro cartilage. — This is a thin disc or meniscus, oval or sub-oblon? in form, concave below and convex above, thus capping the condyle, thicker at the edges than in the middle, where it is not unfrequently thinned away even to perforation. It differs from all the other fibro-cartilages in having muscular fibres inserted into it; namely, a portion of those of the external pterygoid. This insertion takes place along its anterior border, and by it the fibro-cartilage is made to join in that normal amount of dislocation for- wards, which as above stated, the condyle of the lower maxilla is capable of, as well as in the abnormal accidental dislocation of the jaw. It is further held in its place by the fibres of the external lateral ligament, and by the synovial bursa; of the joint. Synovial Bursa.— These are two in num- ber, one above the interarticuiar fibro-carti- lage and the other below it. The upper one is the larger and slacker, for it alone is con- cerned in the antero-posterior gliding of the joint. The two sacs, of course, communicate and are reduced to one when the interarti- cuiar fibro-cartilage is perforated in the centre. Ligaments.—There is only one ligament in immediate relation with the temporo-maxil- lary joint, namely, the external lateral. This is a small ligament, broader above than below, situated at the outside of the joint; attached above to the tubercle situated at the point of divergence of the roots of the zygoma ; and directed downwards and backwards to the outside of the neck that supports the condyle of the lower jaw. Midway in its passage from the one to the other it is attached by its inner aspect to the interarticuiar fibro-cartilage.