THORAX. 1050 These facts show that we should be guarded in determining the living respiratory move- ments by experiments upon the dead subject. It should be constantly borne in mind, that to increase or diminish an intercostal space is to elevate or depress the ribs, and that to elevate or depress the ribs is to increase or diminish their intercostal spaces: the one cannot be accomplished without the other. Some au- thors have spoken of these as distinct; thus, that in inspiration the superior ribs ap- proximate each other, whilst they are raised, or that their rising or falling does not neces- sarily involve an increase or diminishing of the intercostal spaces ; but these two changes are simultaneous and cannot be done sepa- rately. 2nd. The effect of tensions, oblique, perpen- dicular, and decussating, between the moveable levers or ribs.—We employ a strip of vul- canised Indian-rubber for a force representing muscular contraction. A strip of this sub- stance, of uniform thickness, \ of an inch broad and 10 inches long, increased its length, with an increasing weight, as follows : — Weight Fig. 686. Increased length of Indian rubber, gr. inches. 1287i A ounces. 1 + the pan holding the weight = 850gr. : 2 do. = 1725" | 4 do. = 2600 1 8 do. = 4350 If 16 do. = 7850 4 32 do. = 14850 12i 04 do. = 28850 28| Although not exactly in accordance with the law of perfect elasticity, yet it is roughly so and enough for our purpose, viz. the tension is greatest when most stretched, and weakest when least stretched, corresponding with muscular contraction. Let e e (Jig. 686.) be fixed, a b and c d two moveable bars as before, t an oblique tension ; if t shortens, it has been supposed that the two bars would assume the position of a b' and C D ; but not so : they both rise like a b" and c d" until the two bars touch each other.* If we prevent this touching of the two bars by a rigid link, like that on parallel rulers, placed as at s Jig. 687., then the tension will still raise the bars to o o'. In this experiment three circumstances may be noticed. 1st, that the bars have been elevated ; 2dly, that the perpendicular distance between them has been diminished ; and 3dly, that the tension t has been shortened in attaining the position o o'. Place the tension in a contrary direc- tion, as between the bars \' b' and c'd', and the bars are brought into a contrary position, — drawn downwards to o' o'". This can be * This appears to have been known to Hamberger; but the author of this article was not aware of it until four years after he first introduced this move- ment to notice. (See Med. Chirurg. Trans, vol. 29, p. 213.) It is certain that Bamberger's views were not taught in any physiological school in this coun- try, Germany, or France, nor noticed in any of our philosophical works. Effect of oblique tension on separate bars. demonstrated by a model, using a spring or Indian-rubber as the tension, and may be Fig. 687. explained as follows. Let a Jt,fg. 688., repre- sent one bar, c d the perpendicular fixed body; b is the free extremity of the bar; k an axis from which a parallel bar has been re- moved. Let e, i, and o be other fixed points ; connect e to b by an elastic tension, and the bar b will be moved towards e. Let the ten- sion be fixed at i or o, still the bar b will be raised towards the respective points. Let the tension be fixed at k (the centre of mo- tion of the bar which we suppose is removed), and still the bar a b will be raised upwards towards k, and assume the position of a b, k l (fig. 689.) atM. But it is not necessary to this that the elastic force should extend from