VISION. 14-54- vision is perfect in regard to colour. In the sixth, four brothers and five sisters, of whom two of each' sex have the defect. In the seventh, two brothers and three sisters, both of the former having the defect. In the eighth, there was no issue, and in the ninth there a e two sisters, both of them capable of appreciating colours." Of the fifth genera- tion "the defective perception has hitherto been detected in but two of the families. In one of them, consisting of three brothers and three sisters, one of the brothers has the defect, and in the other, a male, an only child, is similarly affected." Sex exercises a considerable influence on the occurrence of achromatopsy; of the thirty-one cases mentioned by Dr. Earle. twenty-seven were males and four females, and the result of upwards of two hundred cases shows that as a general rule the propor- tion of males is nine tenths of the whole. A very remarkable instance has however been published by M. Currier*, where achroma- topsy occurred in five generations of one family, there being thirteen cases, and all females ; but this stands alone as a notable exception to the general rule. If it be true that the works of the needle are the means of perfecting a delicacy in the judgment of tints, and in women the organ of colour is more developed than in men (as asserted by Gall), these very works ought to lead daily to the detection of achromatopsy if it existed ; and we may reasonably conclude that as cases are not discovered they do not exist. According to the observations of Szokalski, this defect of vision especially obtains among nations having a Germanic origin, as the Germans, English, Swiss and Belgians; the French, Italians, and Spaniards being com- paratively free : it seems to be common in the United Slates, but this does not militate against the proposition, the Americans being descendants of the old British stock. How far this peculiarity may be attributable to the greater sensibility of the inhabitants of southern climes, where the more brilliant sun- shine develops colours in a degree unknown in the northern latitudes, is a question which cannot be decided in the present state of our knowledge: nor can we affirm with con- fidence, as stated by the same writer, that achromatopsy occurs most frequently in ro- bust constitutions, combined with a bilious and melancholic temperament. A difference of opinion exists as to whether achromatopsy is indicated by any visible signs ; Szokalski, Ruete, and Himly affirm that there is no diagnostic mark, and llau considers that a yellowish tinge of the iris, which has been considered by some to be indicative of it, is far too common to be so regarded. Professor VVartmann has in his first memoir drawn attention to a peculiar golden lustre of the eyes, which presents itself in cases of achro- matopsy, where the iris is hazel. Miss Sedg- wick f says of the historian Sismondi, that he * Op. cit. t Letters from Abroad, vol i. p. ?50. had brilliant hazel eyes : lie was a Daltonian. At least five other cases are known to have presented the same peculiarity, but the num- ber is yet too small to admit of this being regarded otherwise than as a coincidence, for in truth there appears to be as many Dalto- nians with blue, black, and grey eyes, as with hazel, and as many eyes without a yellow pupillary margin as with it. There is sufficient evidence before us to warrant our considering achromatopsy under two distinct forms: congenital and non-con- genital. The former is always persistent: the latter may be divided into permanent and tem- porary. Writers have classified the defect according to degree; but the simplest and most practical arrangement is that of Wartmann, who recog- nises two classes only: the Dichromatic and the Poh/chromatic. This we think advantageous, as avoiding unnecessary sub-classification, the varieties of the defect being endless. Congenital Achromatopsy. — This form is most common, and the majority of recorded cases of insensibility of the eye to colour are examples of it. It presents the best marked illustrations of both varieties, which we shall proceed to consider. Class I. (Dichromatic Daltonism of Wart- mann).— Black, white, and the intermediate shades of grey are the only tints recognized by patients of this class. Such persons dis- tinguish with facility the forms of objects and the gradations of light and shade, but to them all the charms of nature and of art, as ex- pressed by colour, are unknown ; their retina? are rather sensitive than otherwise, and they not only see objects at a great distance, but can read with facility in an obscurity amount- ing to darkness. The first of these cases on record was pub- lished by Dr. Dawbeny Tubervile, an oculist of Salisbury,* being that of a young woman who consulted him about her sight, which, though excellent in every other respect, incapacitated her from distinguishing any other hues than black and white ; it is especially mentioned that she could read " for nearly a quarter of an hour in the greatest darkness." The next, best marked case has been recorded by M. D. Hombres Firmas.f M. , of Anduze, of a bilious and melancholic temperament,but lead- ing a very active life, had arrived at an ad- vanced age without its being known, except to a very few individuals, that there was any- thing uncommon in his sight; but all colours appeared to him as tints of grey, between black and white. Like several others having this infirmity, he was fond of painting, and had painted in his apartment two friezes and a pannel between the windows: of these he was proud; but some of his visitors inquired why he had represented the ground, the trees, houses, and persons all blue? He replied that he wished them to match the furniture, he * Phil. Trans. No. 164. p. 736. and Lowthorp's Abridgement, vol. iii. part i. p. 40. f Ann. d'Oculistique, torn. xxii. p. 72.