930 TEETH. not been formed upon the surface and in the interspaces of the pulp-plates. Coincident, however, with the formation of the dentine, is the deposition of the hard- ening salts of the enamel in the extremely slender prismatic cells, which are for the most part vertical to the plane of the inner surface of the folds of the capsule to which they are attached ; these cells or moulds give a sub- transparent bluish tint to the enamel pulp. The true inner part of the capsule forms those thick transverse folds or partitions which support the enamel organ, and with it fill the interspaces of the dentinal pulps. With re- gard to the formation of the cement, Cuvier, alter citing the opinion of Tenon — that it was the result of ossification of the internal layer of the capsule, and that of Blake — that it was a deposition from the opposite surface of the capsule to that which had deposited the enanael, states his own conviction to be that the cement is produced by the same iayer and by the same surface as that which has produced the enamel. The proof alleged is, that so long as any space remains between the cement and the external capsule, that space is found to contain a soft internal layer of the capsule with a free surface next the cement. The phenomena could not, in fact, be otherwise explained according to the " ex- cretion theory " of dental development. To the obvious objection that the same part is made, hi this explanation, to secrete two different products, Cuvier replies, that it un- dergoes a change of tissue : " Whilst it yielded enamel only it was thin and transparent; to give cement it becomes thick, spongy, and of a reddish colour." * The external characters of the enamel organ and cement-forming cap- sule are correctly defined; only, the one, in- stead of being .converted into the other, is in fact changed into its supposed transudation : the enamel fibres being formed, and properly disposed in the direction in which their chief Strength is to lie, by the assimilatiye proper- ties of the pre-arranged elongated prismatic non-nneleated cells, which take from the sur- rounding plasma the required salts and com- pact them in their interior. Whilst this process is on foot, and before the enamel fibres are firm in their position, the capsule begins to undergo that change which results in the formation of the thick cement; the calcifying process commences from several points, and proceeds centrifu- gaily, radiating therefrom, and differing from the ossification of bone chief!)' in the number of these centres, which, though close to the new-formed enamel, are in the substance of the inner vascular surface of the capsular folds. The cells arrange themselves in con- centric layers around the vessels, and act * " Seulement elle change de tissue: tant qu'elle ne dounait que de l'email, elle etait mince et fcransr parents; pour doaner du cortical elle devient epaisse, spongieuse, opaque et rougeatre." — Annales du Museum, torn. viii. p. 99; Ossemens Fossiles, ed. 1S;J4, 8vo. torn, i p. 514. Art. Pachydermata, p. 869. like those of the enamel pu!p in receiving into their interior the bone-salts in a clear and compact state; during this process they be- come confluent with each other, their primi- tive distinctness being indicated only by their persistent granular nuclei, which now form the radiated Purkiujian corpuscles. The in- terspaces of the concentric series of confluent cells become filled with the calcareous salts in a rather more opaque state, and the con- version of the capsule into cement goes on, according to the processes more particularly described in the Introduction to my " Odon- tography," until a continuous stratum is formed in close connection with the layer of enamel. The uncalcified part of the capsule, always much softer than cartilage, is very readily detached from the calcified part, and to the naked eye the separated surface seems entire, and might readily pass, as with Cuvier, for a secreting surface. But the fine vascular processes which have been torn from the medullary canals of the calcified part are conspicuous, and resemble villi, when the detached surface is examined, even with a moderate magnifying power, under water. Calcification extending from the numerous centres, the different portions coalesce and progressively add to the thickness of the ce- ment until all the interspaces of the coronal plates and the whole exterior of the crown is covered with the bone-like substance. The enamel-pulp ceases to be developed at the base of the crown, but the capsule continues to be formed pari passu with the partial formation of the pulp, as this continues, pro- gressively contracting, from the base of the crown, to form by its calcification the roots. The calcification of the capsule going on at the same time, a layer of cement is formed in immediate connection with the dentine. The circumscribed spaces at the bottom of the socket to which the capsule and dentinal pulp adhere, where they receive their vessels and nerves, and which are the seat of the progres- sive formation of these respective moulds of the two dental tissues, become gradually con- tracted, and subdivided by the further localis- ation of the reproductive forces to particular spots, whence the subdivision of the base into roots. The surrounding bone undergoes cor- responding modifications, growing and filling up the interspaces left by the dividing and contracting points of attachment of the re- siduary matrix. All is subordinated to one harmonious law of growth by vascular action and cell-formation, and of molecular decre- ment modifying form by absorption. Me- chanical squeezing or drawing out have no share in these changes of the pulp or capsule ; pressure at most exercises only a gentle stimulus to the vital processes. Cuvier be- lieved that there were places where the den- tinal pulp and the capsule were separate from each other. I have never found such except where the enamel-pulp was interposed be- tween them in the crown of the tooth, or where both pulp and capsule adhered to the periosteum of the socket, below the crown.