1246 URETHRA. forwards to a short distance beyond the arch of the pubis, and in the natural state is the narrowest part of it, when distended, greatly exceeds the rest of the canal in its dimensions, and forms a large oblong sinus from 11 to If of an inch in length ; and in its transverse dia- meter at its broadest part, from Jgths to |-g-ths of an inch, the part of the urethra anterior to it not exceeding 27otns °f an inch. The broadest part of this sinus lies directly under the arch of the symphysis pubis. The narrow part of the canal, as seen in these injections, is at the point of union between the prostatic and membranous portions." The irregularities in the form of the urethra here noticed do not appear to exist at the earlier periods of life. In a cast of the urethra of a boy 11 years old, made by injecting wax, no inequalities such as those mentioned above in the adult were observable throughout its coarse, the diameter of the cast, which is nearly cylindrical, measuring pretty uniformly ith of an inch. Briggs found the curve of the urethra to commence li inch anterior to the bulb; and from this point to its termination in the bladder, to form an arc of a circle of 3^ inches in diameter, the chord of the arc being 2J inches, or rather less than one third of the circumference. In another cast the chord of the segment was found to measure 2T8^ inches of a circle of 3^ inches in diameter, the inclination of the internal orifice, or en- trance into the bladder, forming an obtuse angle with the general course of the urethra. The same surgeon remarks, that in young subjects the posterior portion rises nearly at right angles from the rest of the canal, and consequently makes a much sharper bend ; and that this ascending portion is com- paratively longer than in the adult, as was observed by Camper, who justly attributes the circumstances to the higher position of the bladder in early age. A similar remark was made by Bichat; and the fact is well known to the lithotomist, who, in directing the cutting instrument into the bladder of the child, raises the point by depressing the handle at this important stage of the operation. According to Briggs, the most depending part of the curve is at the point where the membranous portion would be intersected by a line drawn through the longitudinal axis of the symphysis pubis to the anus: this would divide the membranous part into two equal parts, and pass through the most dilated part of this portion of the canal * I shall now pursue the description of the canal, commencing at that part which leads immediately from the bladder, namely the pro- static portion, observing that this, together witl) the membranous part, is contained almost •wholly within the pelvis, and the two con- stitute therefore the pelvic portion of the urethra, and form the true representative of the female urethra. * Briggs, on the Treatment of Strictures of the Urethra by Mechanical Dilatation. The prostatic jmrtion traverses the prostate gland at the distance of about two lines from the anterior, four from the posterior, and seven from the lateral surface of the gland. In this respect, however, it varies considerably: thus, in some cases, it is very close to the posterior surface, especially where the isthmus of the prostate is imperfectly developed.* The prostatic portion is from 12 to 15 lines in length, and it commences at the neck of the bladder by a round opening, which is slightly raised ; it then expands to the width of 4 or 5 lines, and gradually contracts itself into the membranous portion. It varies in length and direction in different subjects, and differs materially in these respects ac- cording to age. Lisfranc examined it in eight healthy subjects, and found the diameter of the anterior and posterior portions to vary from 3 to 4 lines, whilst the middle portion measured from 4 to 5^ lines. Although closely invested by the dense tissue of the prostate and its capsule, this is nevertheless the most dilatable part of the whole urethra, and will readily admit the introduction of the fore-finger. The levatores prostates muscles, together with the jmbo- prosiatic ligaments, support it, and attach it to the pubis, and it is compressed by the levatores ani. The general direction of this division of the canal is obliquely downwards ; it pre- sents a slight concavity (the prostatic sinus) at its floor, where it is traversed bythe caput gallinaginis, which, running from behind for- wards, divides the sinus into two equal parts. In the prostatic sinus the ducts of the prostate open, assuming a crescentic arrangement around the base of the caput gallinaginis, whilst the vasa ejaculatoria terminate usually on the side of the latter body. The description of the urethral orifice of the bladder belongs to the anatomy of this viscus, and to the article Bladder the reader is referred ; but it is requisite here slightly to allude to it, as it bears materially upon the general direction of this part of the urethra. When viewed from before backwards, the opening will be generally found somewhat raised, so that the floor of the urethra forms a slight depression; and this depression is materially increased in hypertrophy of the prostate, a circumstance always to be remem- bered in the introduction of the catheter in such cases. In infancy the direction of the prostatic part is very different from what it is in after life. In consequence of the bladder at this early period being situated higher up, that is, more in the abdomen, the urethra at this part rises more vertically, and thus forms an angle with the membranous portion; hence, as in the aged, the necessity, in passing a sound or ca- theter, to depress the handle to a considerable extent, and thus to raise the point of the in- strument. As the prostate becomes evolved, * Lisfranc mentions an instance where the isth- mus was wholly wanting, and the urethra formed a remarkable pouch at this part.