1336 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. the principles already laid down, that this effect would be increased when the cause is in continued operation for several genera- tions. And we might with the more confi- dence anticipate such a result, when we see that a marked difference in complexion often exists between parent and offspring, or be- tween the children of the same parents. Thus, it is a matter of familiar observation, that of two members of the same family, the one shall be a blonde, the other a brunette. Further, it is not uncommon to find, in indi- viduals of the fair races, large patches of the surface almost as deeply coloured as the skin of the negro. On the other hand, albinoism, that is, the total absence of colouring matter in the skin, is probably as common among dark races as among fair. And Dr. Prichard has collected evidence which shows that in many of the individuals who have been de- signated as " white Negroes," there has not been mere albinoism (that is, an entire ab- sence of colouring matter), but a positive de- velopment of the colouring matter that cha- racterises the xanthous variety, in which the complexion is fair and ruddy. Such being the tendency to variation presented by this character, we might fairly anticipate that it might undergo marked changes in the course of a long succession of generations, especially where the external conditions have been altered ; and there is no deficiency of valid historical evidence, that proves this to have been the case.—Perhaps the most striking example that could be cited, is that afforded by the Jewish race; in which there is no ques- tion that a general purity of descent has been preserved through a long succession of gene- tions, during which the scattered residence of the race has subjected it to a great variety of climatic influences. Now, although the de- scendants of Abraham are still generally re- cognizable by certain peculiarities of physiog- nomy (so that they have often been quoted as examples of the permanence and fixity of the characters of races), yet a great variety of complexion exists among them. Thus, among the Jews whose families have been long settled in this country, although a light brunette hue with black hair is most common, yet a fair complexion, with blue eyes, is not unfre- quent. In Germany and Poland, the ordi- nary complexion is more florid, and blue eyes are more common. On the other hand, the Jews of Portugal are almost invariably much darker than those of Northern and Central Europe, as are also those who still cling to their ancient home in Palestine. Lastly, the Jews that have been settled in India for a long succession of generations, have become nearly as black as the natives around them, so that the people of a particular colony at Mattacheri, in Cochin, in whom this change has not yet taken place, are distinguished >y the appellation of" white Jews." Hence it may be stated as a general proposition, that the complexion of the Jewish race tends to as- similate itself to that prevailing in any country in which their residence has been sufficiently prolonged ; and even admitting that a limited admixture with the surrounding population has taken place in any or all of these in- stances, still the introduction of a small quan- tity of extraneous blood does not by any means afford an adequate explanation of the change, since it has not been sufficient to alter any of the other characters of the race, and (as already remarked) the immediate results of such an occasional admixture are soon merged in the general uniformity of the mass. It is probable that, in races as in individuals, the influence of a tropical climate in darkening the complexion will be more decided, in pro- portion to the previous condition of the chro- matogenous function ; for example, that the Jews, whose natural complexion is swarthy, are more readily blackened than Saxons or Celts would be, the pigmentary matter in their epidermis being of a different character. There are several other cases of the same kind, in which the historical testimony is less complete, but in which the deficiency is made up by philological evidence. Thus, the Ba- rabra or Berberines of the higher parts of the Nile, appear, from the most careful researches that have been made into their history, to be the descendants of the Nobatae, who were brought by Diocletian from an oasis in the western country, fifteen centuries ago, to in- habit the valley of the Nile. The particular district out of which they issued was proba- bly Kordofan, the inhabitants of which, true Negroes, still preserve and speak the Barabra language. In their habits of life, they show a considerable advance in civilisation ; and this has been accompanied by a considerable change in complexion, their present physiog- nomy and hue of skin presenting a marked resemblance to that of the ancient Egyptians. This alteration cannot be set down to any intermixture with the Arabs, or other in- habitants of the Nile Valley, from whom the Berberines keep themselves distinct.—In like manner, the Funge, who made themselves masters of Sennaar about three centuries ago, although originally Negroes of the Shilukh nation, no longer present the physiognomy or complexion of that race, but much more nearly approach the Berberines. There ap- pears, in both cases, to be a special tendency towards a red complexion, and even red hair ; and among the Funge, the individuals thus distinguished are stated to form a separate caste, being known under the name of " El Akmar," or "the red people." In Northern India, again, there is no doubt that many of the tribes of mountaineers, already alluded to as distinguished by fair complexion and blue eyes, are of the same stock with the inhabit- ants of the low country ; their language, tra- ditions, religious observances, &c, being es- sentially the same. One of the most remark- able of these tribes is the Siah-Posh, a people of exquisite beauty, with regular Grecian features, blue eyes, arched eyebrows, and a fair complexion, having no resemblance to the Affghan or Cashmerian people, near whom they dwell; their language principally