1374 VEIN. others are far removed from them in com- position. Venous capillaries do not, that I am aware of, differ from arterial. They consist of tubes of homogeneous membrane, studded here and there with nuclei of a more or less oval form, and placed generally with their long axis cor- responding with that of the vessel. In passing to larger veins the change in structure of the vessel (its increase and character) depends upon the region from which it is obtained, and whether or not it is endowed with muscle- cells. In the cerebral veins, which have no muscle, in passing from small capillaries to larger vessels, all that is observed is ihe superaddi- tion of a tunic of areolar tissue, surrounding the lining membrane ; and when this tissue is treated with acetic acid, all that is observable is a series of nuclei, oval, irregular, and longi- tudinal, embedded in the substance of the parietes, which have a perfect resemblance to the external, or cellular coat of small arteries. (Fig. 859. a.) In none of the microscopical cerebral veins have I been able to discover any nuclear or yellow fibres. In veins of the ^ to of an inch the vascular wall has been composed of a tissue rendered trans- parent by acetic acid, and displaying oval and irregular nuclei having a longitudinal course, without any admixture of elastic fibre. The mo>t internal of the nuclei appeared elongated, but there was no appearance of fibres upon the internal membrane, so as to produce a striated membrane. In those veins which are endowed with diameter, consist of tubes of homogeneous mem- brane, studded here and there with nuclei of an oval form, whose long axis is that of the vessel, except in the larger ones, where a few are placed transversely. These corpuscles are elongated, and more numerous, in the larger capillaries. In arteries about 1-600th of an inch, the walls consist of a homogeneous tube, with the nuclei on the outer surface still more elongated ; and external to this, a set of nuclei, club-shaped and sharply defined, placed at right angles to the former, and representing the circular (muscular) tunic in which they are embedded. In larger arteries a cellular tissue, still more ex- ternal, is seen, whose corpuscles — oval and irregu- lar— are longitudinal. In such arteries (say, about 1-300th of an inch in diameter), the tunics are, 1st. a homogeneous tube covered with elongated longitudinal nuclei; 2nd. a circular tunic, repre- sented by the club-shaped transverse nuclei ; and 3rd. a longitudinal tunic of cellular tissue, in which are imbedded oval and irregular nuclei. In passing to larger vessels, the nuclei of the internal coat elongate and disappear; and the internal membrane then consists of perfect striated membrane, the homogeneous tube being covered with very fine longitudinal fibres of elastic tissue. Such may be seen in arteries of l-100th to l-60th of an inch in diameter, and in some much smaller. Fibres make their appearance shortly afterwards in the circular tunic, intermixed with the club-shaped nuclei. The proportion existing between the diameter of an artery and the thickness of its walls is sub- ject to considerable variety; and the same may be said of the relative thickness of the several tunics which compose the wall. Henle has given good figures of the structure of arteries. muscular tissue, small club-shaped nuclei are observed placed externally to the lining mem- Fig. 853. A, Minute Cerebral Vein (about 1-200<A of an inch diameter^), from Sheep, treated with Acetic Acid. a, wall; b, cavity. B, Venous Capillaries (a, about l-lG00//( of an inch b, about l-G00</i of an inch) treated with Acetic Acid. In both these figures persistent nuclei of areolar tissue and epithelial nuclei are alone visible. (Mag- nified 200 diameters.) brane, and transversely as it regards the ves- sel ; these show themselves very distinctly on the addition of acetic acid, and are character- istic of the " muscular fibre-cells" of Kolliker. Such may be seen in the small veins of the mesentery, which are more easily examined than any other veins of this class. In these vessels, two or three removes from capillaries, the muscular nuclei make their appearance, at first, few in number and irregular ; and in still larger, but microscopical veins, these nuclei are seen to be mixed up with, or covered in by, more or less areolar tissue, which at first is destitute of nuclear fibre, but contains conspicuous nuclei, oval and irregular in shape and longitudinal in direction. In the accompanying drawing (fig. 860. is) is a small vein from the mesentery of a rabbit, measuring about Tl^T of an inch in diameter, and treated with acetic acid. On the lining membrane are seen a few elongated nuclei and longitudinal striations, constituting a sort of incipient striated membrane. External to this is a thin layer of muscular tissue, and without that, again, is cellular tissue, which constitutes the main bulk of the vascular wall. The muscular coat is less distinct than in arteries of the same size and thinner in pro- portion to the areolar coat. Such veins have, however, a strong resem- blance to small arteries. Henle states that the two systems of vessels are not to be dis- tinguished in those measuring up to lr±^ of an inch ; and he appears to consider thinness of until as the main characteristic in larger micro- scopical veins. He instances one vessel, which he considers as venous, measuring -gK of an inch in entire diameter, having an annular tunic i^i-^, and a cellular yryV- °f an inch. It has appeared to me that the differences of these vessels are principally these,— micro- scopical veins have thinner walls ; the mus-