1288 URINE. pure triple phosphate is still less; thus in Bartholomew's Hospital the proportion is as 1 : 129 ; in Guy's, as 1 : 43'- ; in the Bristol, as 1 : 218 ; in Copenhagen, as 1 : 19^—. The other museums contain no specimen. The general relation of the triple phosphate in all the collections, is as 1 : 12Gf. " On the other hand, the proportion of cal- culi composed of the mixed phosphates is very considerable ; thus, in Bartholomew's Hospital, the proportion is as 1 : I2T% ; in Guy's, as 1 : 3J+ ; in the Norwich, as 1 : 19—; in the Manchester, (including those containing a little lithic acid,) as 1 : 81; in the Bristol, as 1:12 4-; in Swabia, as I : Hi + ; in Copenhagen, as 1 : 19f. The relative proportion of the mixed phosphates in all the collections is as 1 : 12^ + . " Under the head of the phosphates are included a few rare specimens of other cal- culi, e. g. carbonate of lime and siliceous cal- culi. Of these two varieties, there is only one of each reported to exist in the Copen- hagen collection ; and one containing silex in the Norwich collection " The general proportion of all the calculi arranged under the heads of the phosphates, in the different museums, is as 1 : 10—. " 5. Of alternating calculi. — Calculi com- posed of different layers constitute by far the most frequent results of urinary diseases ; of the successive forms assumed by which, they may be said to constitute the index. We shall first consider the relative proportions of the calculi composed of two, three, and four deposits ; and afterwards of the whole con- jointly. " The proportion of alternating calculi com- posed of two deposits is, in Bartholomew's Hospital, as 1 : 2\— ; in Guy's, none are reported, probably on account of the calculi not having been divided ; in Norwich, the proportion of alternating calculi composed of two layers is stated to be as 1 : 2$— ; in Manchester, as 1 : 2f ; in the Bristol, as 1 : 3—; in Swabia, as 1 : \%-\- ; and in Co- penhagen, as 1 : 2i—. The proportion of alternating calculi composed of two lay ers, in the conjoint collections, is as 1 : 2f 4-. " The proportion of alternating calculi com- posed of three deposits, is, in Bartholomew's Hospital, as 1 : 6—; in Guy's Hospital, none is reported; in the Norwich Hospital, the proportion is as 1 : 64- ; in the Manchester, as 1 : 26-f- ; in the Bristol and Swabia collec- tions, none is reported ; in Copenhagen, the proportion is stated to be as 1 : 4£—. The proportion in all the collections, is as 1 : S-|—. " Alternating calculi composed of four de- posits are only reported to exist in the Nor- wich Hospital, and the proportion stated is as 1 : 26^4". In the different collections there are twenty-four alternating calculi, the com- position of which is not stated. The propor- tion of all the varieties of alternating calculi in the different collections, is somewhat more than one-half; that is, as 1 : 2—. "6. Of mixed or compound calculi. — In one sense of the term, all calculi may be said to be mixed or compou?id, as there are perhaps none absolutely pure, i.e., formed of a single in- gredient. But in the sense in which the term is here applied, namely, as expressive of cal- culi composed of different ingredients mixed together in large or nearly equal proportions, compound calculi may be said to be rare. The most usual mixtures consist of the lithate of ammonia and of lime; of the oxalate, car- bonate, and phosphate of lime ; of the lithate of ammonia, and the mixed phosphates, &c.; and such mixtures are usually confined to small calculi or calculous nuclei. Calculi composed of pure lithic acid, or of any other pure ingredient, with the phosphates or other compounds, do not appear to exist; at least I have met with no such mixtures. " Lastly, it remains to make a few remarks on the order of calculous deposits ; an inquiry that throws considerable light on the laws of their formation and general pathology. " On reference to the table it will be found, that in the different alternating calculi, the ratio in which the oxalate of lime succeeds to lithic acid, is as 1 : 15f 4- ; on the contrary, that the ratio in which lithic acid succeeds to oxalic acid, is as 1 : 13"^-. Hence the alter- nation of the two ingredients may be con- sidered as nearly equal. It will be found, however, that the oxalate of lime succeeds to the lithate of ammonia, &c, more frequently than to lithic acid; thus the ratio in which the oxalate of lime succeeds to the lithate of ammonia was 1 : 9f—. On the contrary, the ratio in which the lithate of ammonia succeeds to the oxalate of lime, is only as 1 : 38 ; a very striking distinction. The ratio in which the phosphates succeed to lithic acid, is as 1 : 9i'— ; in which the phosphates succeed to the lithate of ammonia, is as 1 : 12.£— ; and in which the phosphates succeed to the oxa- late of lime, is as 1 : 7j-f-. On the contrary, three instances only occur in which the lithic acid or lithate of ammonia succeeds to a phosphate ; and the proportion in which the oxalate of lime succeeds to the phosphates is as 1 : 253£ only. The general proportion in which the phosphates succeed to the other ingredients in all the collections, is as 1 : Hence the generality of the im- portant law alluded to in various parts of this volume, that in urinary calculi a decided depo- sition of the mixed phosphates is not followed by other depositions." The following table, constructed by Dr. Prout, illustrating the frequency of calculous affections at different ages, and in the different sexes, is from a paper published by Mr. Smith in the eleventh volume of the Med. Chirurg. Transactions, and from " A Treatise on the Formation, Constituents, and Extraction of Urinary Calculi. By John Green Crosse, Esq., Surgeon to the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital. London, 1835."