TEETH. 8G7 3 k 2 in Jig. 5V/., in which c is the thick external cement, d the hard dentine, and o the osteo- dentine ; sometimes developed in loose stalac- titic-shaped nodules. In the teeth of the Sloth, and its great extinct congener, the Megatherium, the hard dentine is reduced to a thin layer, and the chief bulk of the tooth is made up of a central body of vaso-dentine, and a thick ex- ternal crust of cement. Fig. 548. represents a Fig. 548. d d Section of tooth of ^Megatherium. longitudinal section of a lower molar of the Megatherium, of half the natural size : v is the vaso-dentine, (/ is the hard dentine, and c is the cement; p is the base of the wide per- sistent pulp-cavity. The hard dentine is, of course, the firmest tissue of a tooth so composed, and forms the crest of the transverse ridges of the grinding surface, like the enamel plates in the elephant's grinder. It has, consequently, been described to be enamel *, but its relation to that tissue is only one of analogy or function. The human teeth, ami those of the carni- vorous mammals, appear at first sight to be composed of dentine and enamel only, as they were described to be by the Cuviersf, who * Cuvier, Ossemens Fossiles, 4to, t. v., pt. 1., p. 172.; and Clift, Transactions of the Geological Society, 1835, p. 438. t F. Cuvier, Dents de Mammiferes, p. 1. 8vo, 1825; G. Cuvier, Lecons d'Anat. Comn. iv. (183G), p. 199. called them, therefore, simple teeth ; but their crowns are originally, and their fangs are always, covered by a thin coat of cement. There is also commonly a small central tract of osteo-dentine in old teeth. In Jig. 7, pi. 122, of my Odontography is given a longitudinal section of a human molar tooth, in which d is the dentine, c the enamel, and c the cement. The teeth, called by Cuvier compound or complex in Mammalia, differ, as regards their composition, from the preceding, only by the different proportion and disposition of the constituent tissues. Fig. 549. is a longitudinal section of the incisor of a horse; d is the dentine, e the enamel, and c the cement; c is the layer of cement reflected into the deep central depression of the crown ; and « is the coloured mass of tartar and particles of food which fills up that cavity, forming the " mark" of the horse-dealer. The characteristic struc- ture of the three tissues is shown in the magnified part of the section,^. 550. Fig. 549. Section of incisor of a Home (JSquus), A very complex tooth may be formed out of two tissues by the way in which these may be interblended, as the result of an original complex disposition of the constituents of the dental matrix. Certain fishes, and a singular family of gigantic extinct Batrachians, which I have called " Labyrinthodonts,"* exhibit, as the name implies, a remarkable instance of this kind of complexity. Fig. 551. is a view of a canine tooth of the Labyrinthodon salaman- droides, of the natural size : and Jig. 552. is a slightly magnified view of a transverse section across the part of the crown marked a. At first view, the tooth appears to be of the simple conical kind, with the exterior surface merely striated longitudinally, but every streak is a fissure into which the very thin external laver of cement (c) is reflected into the body* of * Proceedings of the Geological Society, Jan 20. 1841, p. 257.