814 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. approximative^ the stature of the skeleton and of the body by measuring one of the cy- lindrical bones; but instead of testing the value of this conclusion by making use of the extreme values, he contents himself with a rough average. It appears, however, that if we take several cylindrical bones having the same length, and compare them with the cor- responding ascertained stature of the skeleton, the extreme statures are very wide apart. Of seven ulnas, for instance, having each the same length (viz. 10 inches, 8 lines), one cor- responded to a stature of G feet 1£ inch, and another to a stature of only 5 feet 5 inches. The difference of 8£ inches shows the possible error which might be committed by trusting to this standard of comparison, and demonstrates its futility. The other illustration is afforded by the well-known test of the absolute weight of the foetal lungs. It used to be laid down as a rough average that in still-born mature chil- dren the weight of the lungs was one ounce, and in children that were born alive two ounces. More accurate observation showed that this rough guess was very far from the truth. It was only, however, by the aid of extreme values that the utter worthlessness of this test could be proved. It resulted from the collation of a moderate number of ob- servations that the lowest weight before and after respiration were the same to an unit, while the greatest weight of the lungs of still- born children, in two instances, surpassed the greatest weight of the lungs of children born alive. Nothing could more clearly demon- strate the insufficiency and invalidity of this test. The same general principle which applies to averages applies also to the extremes, namely, that the value of the extremes in- creases with the number of observations from which they are selected. It is obvious, how- ever, that a larger number of facts will be re- quired to arrive at a true extreme value than to obtain a close approximation to the true mean : 10,000 facts, for instance, may give a true mean duration of life for the inhabitants of any country ; but as many millions may not happen to embrace the greatest attainable age. The same principles, then, apply both to the mean and to the extreme values derived from observation. To obtain a correct mean or a probable extreme, we must multiply our facts. Bibliography. — Gavarret, Jules, Principes Ge- neVaux de Statistique Me'dicale, ou Developpement des Regies qui doivent presider a son Emploi. De Morgan, Augustus, An Essay on Probabilities and their Application to Life Contingencies and In- surance Offices. Laplace, Essai Philosophique sur les Probabilite's. Poisson, Recherches sur la Proba- bilite' des Jugements. Todd, Tweedy John, The Book of Analysis, or a new Method of Experience. Quetelet M.A. Sur l'homuie, et le Developpement de ses Facultes. {William A. Guy.) STATISTICS, VITAL. See Vital Statistics. STOMACH and INTESTINAL CANAL. See Supplement. SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES {Arterice subclavice, Lat. ; Arteres sous-clavieres, Fr. ; die Schliisselbein Pulsadern, Germ.). — These arteries, two in number, are the great vessels destined to supply the upper extremities with blood. Each passes to the corresponding ex- tremity as a continuous trunk, which in its coursegives off numerous collateral branches to the larynx, neck, nervous centres, thorax, &c. The subclavian arteries on the right and left sides respectively differ from each other in their origin, length, direction, and in their relations to surrounding parts, — differences, however, which occur in the first stage of these vessels only : thus, on the right side, the subclavian artery is derived from the Arteria innominata, and on the left from the arch of the aorta ; but on both sides alike the lower or outer margin of the first rib marks the termination of each vessel, which, in its further course towards the upper extremity, is designated by the name of Axillary. The course of each subclavian artery may, in general terms, be described as representing an arch, the convexity of which looks upwards towards the neck, whilst the concavity has an aspect downwards, and corresponds closely to the apex of the lung. On the right side the extremities of this arch are nearly on the same level, the outer, however, passing a little lower down than the inner; whilst on the left side the reverse obtains, the inner (or cardiac) extremity of the arch of the left subclavian artery, which springs from the aorta, being on a much lower level than the outer. Owing to the difference in the origin of these vessels, the left subclavian artery has a stage within the thorax, which does not belong to the artery of the right side. The subclavian artery on each side is ac- companied by a vein of large size; the direction of the vein is much more transverse than that of the artery, so as to resemble in some respect, as Cruveilhier expresses it, " the cord of the arc which the artery describes:" the subclavian vein is consequently the shorter vessel of the two. The course of each subclavian artery may be divided into three stages, to which the ma- jority of anatomists agree in assigning the following limits : — A first stage comprises that portion of the vessel, from its origin, to the inner, or tracheal edge, of the scalenus anticus muscle. A second stage includes so much of the artery as is contained between the sca- leni muscles ; and the Third stage extends from the acromial edge of the scalenus anticus muscle to the lower or outer margin of the first rib : at this latter point the axillary artery commences. According to some anatomists (as Bichat), the outer margin of the scaleni muscles is the limit between the subclavian and axillary