VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1320 tained that the profile view is the most cha- racteristic, and that the " facial angles " of the different races vary so greatly and so con- stantly, that upon this character alone a valid distinction might be founded. By Blumen- bach, on the other hand, it was considered that the comparison of the breadth of the head, particularly as seen in the vertical aspect, is the method by which the most strongly-marked differences are brought into view. By Professor Owen the importance of the basal aspect has been especially dwelt upon, in his comparison of the skulls of the higher Quadrumana with that of Man, as more fully indicating the relative proportions and extent, and the peculiarities of formation, of different parts of the cranium, than any other method. By Dr. Pritchard, again, the importance of the front or facial view has been clearly shown, in regard, at least, to one variety of cranial conformation. Lastly, by Prof. Ret- zius, the length of the cranial cavity in pro- portion to its breadth is considered as the character of greatest importance; this being regarded by him as indicative of the relative development of the posterior lobes of the cerebral hemispheres, and of the degree in which they cover-in, or extend beyond, the cerebellum. As we have already seen, the superior development of these posterior lobes constitutes a marked difference between the cerebrum of Man and that of the higher Quadrumana ; and in this respect it would appear from the evidence afforded by cranial conformation *, that there is a marked differ- ence among the several races of mankind. The only method of comparison which can be fairly relied on, is that in which all the points of difference are taken into account; and as this has been done more fully by Dr. Prichard than by any other ethnologist, his arrangement will be taken as the chief guide in the present instance.—If we were to select from a large collection of human crania, brought together from all quarters of the globe, those which differed most widely from each other, and which might, therefore, be considered as types of certain peculiarities of conformation, and if we were then to com- pare these more closely, so as to eliminate those which might be regarded as presenting mixtures or combinations of the most di- vergent types (just as in studying the solar spectrum, the optical investigator eliminates all the colours which can be generated by ad- mixture, and leaves only the three primaries, red, blue, and yellow), we should find our- selves reduced at last to three forms, which would probably be the crania—(1) of a Negro of the Guinea coast, or of a Negrito of Australia, (2) of a Mongolian or Tun- gusian of Central Asia, or of an Esquimaux or Greenlander, •—and (3) of a native of Western or Southern Europe. The most marked feature of the first of these would be the projection of the jaws ; hence this type is called by Dr. Prichard the prog- nathous. That of the second would be the breadth and flatness of the face, which, with the narrowness of the forehead, gives to the facial aspect somewhat of a pyramidal form, which is the designation applied to this Fie. 807. Fig. 808. Fig. 809. Prorpiathoas Cranium of a native Australian of the Western Port tribe. {From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.') type by Dr. Prichard. The third form would not be distinguished by any particular fea- * The author would remark, however, that this evidence cannot by any means be implicitly relied on ; since the relative positions of the different parts of t he encephalon may vary, without a corresponding alteration in their development, as is seen when the form of the cranium has been altered by compres- sion. Of the fallacy of inferences drawn from an inspection of the cranium, as to the development of the different parts of the encephalon, we have an example in the assertion of Gall, that castration oc- casions atrophy of the cerebellum; a statement which has been completely negatived by the ob- servations of Leuret. tures so much as by an absence of the longi- tudinal projection of the first, or the lateral projection of the second, and by a general symmetry of the whole configuration, which maybe characterised as oval or elliptical; such being the form presented when the cranium is viewed either facially, basally, or vertically. The distinctive characters of these three types will now be more particularly considered ; and the European type may be conveniently taken as the standard of comparison, since it is in many respects intermediate between the two others; one of these departing from it in one direction, and the other in the opposite.