TEETH. 908 culeuse" (my m. 3), and not any of the four false molars. The true second tuber- cular above (/«. 2) is, however, so much de- veloped in the bear as to oppose both m. 2 and m. 3 in the lower jaw, and it might seem to include the homotypes of both those teeth coalesced. One sees with an interest such as only these homological researches could ex- cite, that they were distinctly developed in the ancient Amplncyon {Jig. 576.), which ac- cordingly presents the typical formula. Thus, I repeat, the study of the relative position of the teeth of the bear might have led to the recognition of their real nature and homolo- gies, and have helped to raise the mask of their extreme formal modifications, by which they are adapted to the habits of the more blood- thirsty Carnivora. But the truth is plainly and satisfactorily revealed when we come to trace the course of development and succes- sion of these teeth. The weight which must ever attach itself to an opinion sanctioned by the authority of both the Cuviers, demands that a conclusion contrary to theirs, and which seems to be opposed by Nature herself in certain instances, should be supported by all the evidence of which such conclusion is susceptible. I proceed, therefore, to show how, in the bear, my determinations of the teeth are es- tablished by their development, as well as by their relative position. As the question only concerns the molar series, the remarks will be confined to these. In the jaws of the young bear, figured in cut 581., the first premolar, p. I, is the only one of the permanent series in place; similarity to p. 4 in the lower jaw (.fig. 581, Ursus), to be veritably the last of the pre- molar series, and to agree not in shape only, but in every essential character, with the three preceding teeth called by Cuvier "fausses molaires." So, likewise, in the lower jaw, we see that the primitive deciduous series, d. 1, d. 2, d. 3, and d. 4, will be displaced by the corresponding premolars,/). I,p. 2,p. 3, and p. 4 ; and that the tooth m. 1, called car- nassiere by Cuvier, in the lower jaw, differs essentially from that p. 4, so called in the upper jaw by being developed without any vertical predecessor or deciduous tooth. The same law of development and succes- sion prevails in the genus Cams {fig. 582.). Although the tooth m. 1 in the lower jaw has exchanged the tubercular for the carnassial form, it is still developed, as in the bear, behind the deciduous series, and indepen- dently of any vertical predecessor; and the tooth p. 4 above, although acquiring a relative superiority of size to its homologue in the bear, and more decidedly a carnassial form, is not the homotype of the permanent carnas- sial below, but of that premolar (p. 4) which is destined to displace the deciduous carnassial d. 4. The symbols sufficiently indicate the relations of the other teeth, and the conclu- sions that are to be drawn from them as to their homologies. It is interesting to observe in the deciduous, as well as in the permanent series, that the lower carnassial d. 4 is not the homotype of the upper one d. 3, but of the tooth which Cuvier calls the " tuberculeuse du lait," d. 4 in the upper jaw. Deciduous and permanent dentition of the Bear (Ursus). the other grinders in use are the deciduous molars, d. 2, d. 3, and d. 4; d. 2 will be displaced by p. 2, d. 3 by p. 3, and (/. 4 by the tooth p. 4, which, notwithstanding its size and shape, Cuvier felt himself compelled to discard from the series of false molars, but which we now see is proved by its developmental relations to d. 4, as well as by its relative position and In the genus Felts {fig. 580.), the small per- manent tubercular molar of the upper jaw, m. 1, has cut the gum before its analogue d. 4 of the deciduous series has been shed ; but though analogous in function, this is not ho- mologous with, or the precedent tooth to m. 1, but, as in the dog, to the great carnassially modified premolar, p. 4. In the lower jaw the