TOUCH. potent exertion of the will to keep them in activity. As we have every reason to believe that all mental exertion, like muscular force, involves (in our present state of being) a dis- integration of the substance of its instrument — the brain, — there is no difficulty in under- standing that this disintegration, when carried beyond a certain point, may excite the sense of fatigue (see Sleep), just as the "besoin de respirer" is felt after we have withheld our respiratory movements for a few seconds, or hunger when there is a deficiency of nu- tritious matter in the circulating current. It has been said by Mr. Mayo, " that the frame is in the completest health and condition, when the internal sensations are not excited ; the healthiest self-feeling being an absence of all inward sensation." This, however, is scarcely a sufficient account of the fact; for, in the highest condition of health, there is not only an absence of all uneasy feeling, but a general sense of buoyancy and resiliency, dif- ficult to describe in words, which may be characterised as the positive sense of well- being. So, on the other hand, without any positive or distinct sensation, there may be a consciousness of general discomfort, which has been expressively termed by the French malaise. These two sensations may probably be considered as originating in the condition of the blood; the first being an indication of its purity, and of its perfect adaptation to the wants of the system ; whilst the second would seem to proceed from a slight depravation of its quality, resulting not unfrequently from the imperfect elimination of excretory matters, such as is not sufficient in itself to constitute an actual disease. Having thus passed in review the principal manifestations of the general sensibility of the body, and the conditions under which they occur, we have now to proceed to the investigation of the sense of touch, as exer- cised by the organs specially adapted for the reception of tactile impressions. Sense of Touch. Special Organs of Touch.— The peculiar endowments of the tegumentary surface, which enable us to draw from the impres- sions received through it, information of so much more varied and definite a character than we can derive through any of the struc- tures which it invests, appear to consist prin- cipally, so far as the organ itself is concerned, in its greater sensibility (that is, in its greater aptitude for being affected by slight impres- sions), and in its greater power of commu- nicating distinct impressions from points in close proximity ; but a large part of our in- formation is dependent upon our power of giving motion to the tactile organ, and thus of increasing the force and variety of the impres- sions which we derive through its surface, as well as of receiving impressions of an entirely different kind, from the action of the muscles by which that motion is given. Thus, if we simply bring a solid body into contact with the point of the finger, we gain but little 11G5 information of the nature of its surface, whether rough, smooth, or polished ; and we can judge nothing of its form, except in regard to that part of it in actual contact with the fingers ; and even this is but vaguely ap- preciated. This information may be rendered somewhat more precise by pressing the object against the finger; as we shall then feel the impression made by elevations, points, or roughnesses, if they'be sufficiently prominent and wide apart from each other; whilst from the degree of muscular force we exert, and from the amount of yielding of which we are conscious in the object itself, we judge of its hardness, softness, elasticity, &c. But our power of discrimination is immensely in- creased, when we move the tactile surface on the body to be examined, or vice versa; for, from the succession of impressions then made, we obtain our best idea of the character of the surface of the object; whilst by the combination of the tactile impressions with the muscular sense, we judge of the relative positions and connections of its different parts, and of the form of the whole. But besides this, we find that impressions may be derived through the skin, which are not re- ferable to a mere exaltation of its common sensibility, being apparently of a different cha- racter from any of which we become con- scious through other structures; such, espe- cially, are sensations of temperature. Still there would seem no sufficient cause for rank- ing even these in a distinct category from the ordinary tactile impressions; for the feeling of heat or cold does not differ more from that of roughness or smoothness, than does the colour of the object, as seen by the eye, from its form as distinguished by the same organ. The different parts of the cutaneous^ sur- face are endowed with tactile sensibility in very different degrees ; and this variation seems closely to correspond with the degree of development of that papillary structure, which may be regarded as the special organ of touch, strictly so called. These papillae are most elevated and numerous on the tip of the tongue and the points of the fingers ; are less so on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet; are comparatively small and few on the integument of the limbs, and on several parts of the trunk can scarcely be dis- covered at all. They are described by Messrs. Todd and Bowman* as having an average length in man of ^th of an inch ; and°a diameter at their base, where they spring from the cuticle, of about ^th of an'inch. &Their form is somewhat conical, tapering off to a slightly rounded [joint. Their surface (after the removal of the epidermis) appears to be composed of the basement membrane of the cutis itself; and their interior is composed of fibrous tissue, vessels, and nerves. In each papilla we find a small arterial twig, derived from the arterial plexus of the cutis; this, advancing towards the apex of the papilla! subdivides into two or more capillary ves- * Physiological Anatomy, vol. i. p. 410.