1286 URINE General Character of Calculi. Particular Species of Calculi. 3 b. Alternating calculi com- posed ofthree layers. Alternating calculi com- posed offour layers. d. Alternating calculi com- posed of seve- ral layers. 6. Mixed or com- pound calculi. Litliate of ammonia, lithic acid, and phosphates - , lithic acid, and lithate of am- monia .... lithic acid, and phosphate of lime , lithic acid, and oxalate of lime (Lithate and oxalate of lime,) oxalate of lime, and mixed phosphates (Lithate and oxalate of lime,) (ditto al- ternately,) and phosphates - Oxalate of lime, lithic acid and lithate of ammonia - , lithic acid and oxalate of lime , lithic acid, and phosphate of , lithic acid, and mixed phos- phates - -, lithate of ammonia, and phos- phate of lime lithate of ammonia, and oxalate of lime Mixed phosphates, phosphate of lime, and mixed phosphates Lithic acid, lithate of ammonia, lithic acid, and lithate of ammonia , oxalate of lime, lithate of am- monia, and phosphate of lime oxalate of lime, lithic acid and oxalate of lime -, oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and lithate of ammonia Lithate of ammonia, oxalate of lime, lithate of ammonia, and phosphates , oxalate of lime, lithate of am- monia, and oxalate of lime - oxalate of lime, phosphates and oxalate of lime - oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and lithate of ammonia , oxalate of lime, phosphate of lime, and phosphates oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and phosphates — , oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and oxalate of lime oxalate of lime, lithate of am- monia, and lithic acid phosphate of lime oxalate of lime, and lithate of ammonia Oxalate of lime, lithic acid, lithate of ammonia, and lithic acid , lithic acid, oxalate of lime, and phosphate of lime - -, lithic acid, oxalate of lime, and phosphates - -, lithic acid, lithate of ammonia, and phosphates Composition not mentioned Mixture not mentioned Fibrous matter and phosphates England. S . Conti- nent. 10 129 87 663 187 218 81 155 7 1 4 3 13 3 4 4 1 12 3 2 1 1 1 1 2 5 3 24