869 TEETH. tain distance from the base of the tooth; and this column sends radiating outwards, from its circumference, a series of vertical plates, which divide into two once or twice before they terminate at the periphery of the tooth. Each of these diverging and dichotomising plates gives off'throughout its course smaller processes, which stand at right angles, or nearly so, to the main plate ; they are gene- rally opposite, but sometimes alternate; many of the secondary plates or processes, which are given off'near the centre of the tooth, also divide into two before they terminate; and their contour is seen, in the transverse section, to partake of all the undulations of the folds of cement which invest and divide the den- tinal plates and processes from each other. The dental pulp-cavity is reduced to a mere line about the upper third of the tooth, but throughout its whole extent fissures radiate from it, corresponding in number with the radiating plates of dentine. Each fissure is continued along the middle of each plate, dividing where this divides, and extending along the middle of each bifurcation and pro- cess to within a short distance of the line of cement. The pulp-fissure commonly dilates into a canal at the origin of the lateral pro- cesses of the radiating plates, before it divides to accompany and penetrate those processes. The main fissures or radiations of the pulp- cavity extend to within a line or half a line of the periphery of the tooth, and suddenly dilate at their terminations into spaces, which, in transverse section, arc subcircular, oval, or rally smaller spaces. All these spaces, or canals, in the living tooth, must have been occupied by corresponding processes of the vascular pulp : they constitute so many cen- tres of radiation of the fine calcigerous tubes, which, with their uniting clear substance, constitute the dentine.* An analogous complexity is produced by numerous fissures radiating from a central mass of vaso-dentinc, which more or less fills up the pulp-cavity of the seemingly simple conical teeth of the extinct family of fishes which I have called " Dendrodonts."f Fig. 553. is one of these fossil teeth, of the natu- Tooili of a Dendrodus, natural size. ral size ; a a transverse section ; and fig. 554 a reduced view of a portion of the same section, enlarged twenty diameters. Thus magnified, a central pulp-cavity, of Fie. 55-k Transverse section of tooth of Dendrodus. A, natural size; B, the portion c, of A, magnified 20 diameters. pyriform, p: the branches of the radiating lines, which are continued into the lateral secondary plates or processes of the dentinal lamella?, likewise dilate into similar, and gene- relatively small size, and of an irregular lobu- lated form, is discerned, a portion of which * Odontography, pp. 195—217, pi. 64 a, 64 b. t 10. P. 171. 3 k 3