902 TEETH. (herbivorous Cetacea of Cuvier) differ in has been called in question.* I have, how- many organic particulars from the Cetacea ever, discovered in specimens of the Malayan Dentition of the Dugong (Halicore indicus). Dugong which I have dissected at the Zoological Society, the true deciduous in- cisors of the upper jaw (fig. 575, d i) co- existing with the permanent ones (i). They are much smaller than the permanent tusks of the female, and are loosely inserted by one extremity in conical sockets immediately an- terior to those of the permanent tusks, ad- hering by their opposite ends to the thick tegumentary gum, which presented no out- ward indication of their presence. When this gum was stripped off the bone, the deciduous tusks came away with it; and this may account for their usual absence in dried crania of immature Dugongs, in which, nevertheless, their alveoli are generally suffi- ciently conspicuous. True permanent in- cisors are not developed in the lower jaw of the Dugong ; those which are occasionally found there are abortive remnants of the first or deciduous series, which are not destined at any time to rise above the gum (fig. 575, d i 3.). The molar teeth of the Dugong resemble those of the order Bruta in the total absence of enamel, and of any constriction defining the crown from the fangs. In the Malayan species, only five molars (fig. 575, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.) are developed on each side of both jaws : in the Australian Dugong six are developed ; i. e. the Halicore ivdicus is characterised by the molar formula m. -—-=20, whilst the o—5 Halicore australis has m. -—-=24.f But in 6—6 both species, the number is progressively re- duced, by the shedding of the anterior and o 9 smaller molars, to m. -—-=8. The struc- ture of these molar teeth is illustrated in * Dr. Knox, Edinburgh Philosophical Transac- tions, torn. xi. p. 389. t See my appendix to Juke's " Voyage of the Fly.' proper*, and in none, perhaps, more strikingly than in having both deciduous and permanent teeth; this succession takes place, at least, with regard to the upper incisors of the Du- gong, fig. 575. These teeth project from the gum in the male sex; but neither upper nor lower in- cisors are visible in the female.f The supe- rior incisors are but two in number, in both sexes ; in the male, they are moderately long, subtricdral, slightly and equally curved, of the same diameter from the base, and deeply excavated to near the apex, which is obliquely bevelled off to a sharp edge, like the scalpriform teeth of the Rodentia. The form and extent of the persistent pulp-cavity of this tooth are shown in the figure of its longitudinal section, in my " Odontography," pi. 93. fig. 4.; it becomes longer and more pointed than in the permanent incisor of the younger male (fig. 575, i). When fully de- veloped, only the extremity of this tusk pro- jects from the jaw, at least seven-eighths of its extent being lodged in the socket, the parietes of which are entire ; and the exterior of the great premaxillary bones presents an unbroken surface. In the female Dugong, the growth of the permanent incisive tusks of the upper jaw is arrested before they cut the gum, and they remain through life concealed in the premaxillaries; the tusk is solid, is about an inch shorter and less bent than that of the male ; it is also irregularly cylin- drical, longitudinally indented, and it gradually diminishes to an obtuse rugged point ; the base is suddenly expanded, bent obliquely outwards, and presents a shallow excavation. These were conjectured by Home to be the " milk-tusks ; " they are, however, character- istic of sex, not of age ; and the existence of deciduous tusks at any period in the Dugong * Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London, 1838, p. 40. t Proceedings of the Zool. Society, 1838, p. 41.