1118 THYROID GLAND. opening into the pharynx, the oesophagus, or into the top of the trachea. Santorini (Observ. Anat. 1754), recognizes the thyroid as a single gland, and makes men- tion of its median column as previously known to Morgagni, though it was probably dis- covered by Bidloo or Lalonette. He details the failure of his efforts to discover a duct, though he had several times detected an orifice at the anterior angle of the glottis, into which a brittle could be passed ; and yet re- marks that the thyroid gland may be urged to expel its secretion by the pressure of the sub-hyoidean muscles, the throbbings of the carotids, and the contractions of the oeso- phagus. Haller (Element. Physiolog. 1766), in his account of the thyroid, gives a good descrip- tion of the median column, and of the several varieties which it presents ; four times only has he found it absent; most frequently existing on the left side ; sometimes, however, on the right. He relates some experiments of Lalonette, in which it appeared as if the glandular cavities had been distended by inflation with air, and also the lymphatic -vessels proceeding from them. The result of this coarse proceeding he explains, and probably cor- rectly, by supposing that the distended cavities were those of the areolar texture, and not the secreting vesicles. He remarks that, even according to Lalonette's testimony, no secre- tion can ever be pressed out of the thyroid gland into the cavity of the larynx ; or if* any appear it seems to be nothing more than the contents of some mucous follicles. After detailing the struggles and efforts of various anatomists to discover an efferent duct, he states at last that several inquirers, among whom he mentions Ruysch in particular, had adopted the only possible remaining opinion, that a peculiar fluid was elaborated in the gland, which being received into the radicles of the veins, was returned into the blood. This view, which laborious, and thoughtful, and sagacious men were then slow to entertain, is now universally adopted ; and it seems cer- tainly a matte- of wonder that it was not sooner arrived at. May we not, however, question whether, in regard to other glands, a process somewhat similar does not also occur, —whether certain complementary products of secretory action are not formed in the gland, and afterwards absorbed and carried off by venous and lymphatic radicles ? Meckel's description of the thyroid is as complete as could be accomplished by the most consummate anatomical skill, while un- aided by the achromatic lens. I need not refer to his well known pages, further than to notice a suggestion which he offers, viz., that as the median column is much more deve- loped in the infant than in the adult, the excretory duct may exist at that period (in the median column), and become obliterated as age advances. In proceeding beyond this period, we come to the anatomists of our own day ; several of whom have advanced our knowledge con- siderably respecting the thyroid and other ductless glands. To none, however, are we more indebted than to Mr. Simon; whose mfcsterly and philosophical Essay on the Thymus contains the best account of the anatomy and physiology of these organs that has yet been given. Bibliography.— Wharton, Adenographia. Mor- gagni, Adversaria Anatomica. Haller, Elementa Physiologica. Meckel and Cruveilhier's works on Descriptive Anatomy. Quain and Sharpey's Ana- tomy. Todd and Bowman, Physiological Anatomy. Simon's paper in Philos. Transact. 1844, on Com- parative Anatomy of Thyroid. Various parts of the essay of the same author on the Thymus gland. Henle, Allgemeine Anatomie. (Esterlen, Beitrage zur Pliysiologie. ( C. Handfield Jones.) TIBIOFIBULAR ARTICULATIONS. — The bones of the leg, throughout the greater part of their length parallel and con- tiguous to each other only, are in contact by their extremities. At the points of contact the two tibio-fibular articulations, a superior and an inferior, are situated. Superior Tibio-Fibular Articulation. —The head of the fibula is in contact with the external tuberosity of the tibia. The for- mer is furnished with an articulating surface which has an aspect upwards, forwards, and in- wards, whilst the articular facet on the latter is placed rather towards the posterior part of the tuberosity of the tibia, and is directed downwards, backwards, and outwards. Both surfaces are almost perfectly plane, their form is circular, and they are encrusted with arti- cular cartilage ; hence this articulation is to be referred to the class arthrodia. a. The ligaments of this joint are two in number, named, from their relative positions, anterior and posterior ligaments. 1. The anterior ligament of the superior tibio-fibular articulation, is composed of a fas- ciculus of white fibrous bands, which are all parallel to each other. It passes from the tibia downwards and outwards to the head of the fibula, running in front of the synovial membrane of the articulation which it defends. The extensor digitorum communis muscle covers this ligament anteriorly. 2. The posterior ligament follows a similar direction on the posterior aspect of the joint; but the fibres which compose it are neither so numerous nor so strong as those of the pre- ceding; this ligament is covered posteriorly by the poplitacus muscle. Lastly, the tendon of the biceps (flexor cruris), by its attachment to the head of the fibula, contributes, in no inconsiderable de- gree, to the security of the articulation. b. Synovial membrane.—There is nothing, in the anatomical disposition of the synovial membrane of this articulation, which requires any particular notice ; but the surgeon should remember that it is always in close proximity to the serous sac of the knee joint, and that in many instances the two synovial membranes communicate with each other. The synovial