TOUCH. 1176 * Outlines of Physiology, 3rd ed. p. 290. intuitive connection between the ideas which quire the effort of a contrary set of muscles for the maintenance of the erect position. Mental Phenomena connected ivith the Sense. — The interpretation which the mind puts upon the impressions made by external ob- jects upon the tactile organs, is partly the re- sult of intuition, partly of experience. Thus we intuitively refer an impression made upon any part of a sensory nerve in its course, to the peripheral extremities of that nerve, or (as in cases of amputation) to the part from which they should normally arise. So, again, if a part of the body be removed from its usual position and connections (as in the Taliacotian and various other operations of plastic surgery), impressions made upon it continue to be referred to its original seat, so long as it retains any nervous connection with it, and until new connections have been formed with the nerves of the part to which it has been transferred. So, again, when our members are in an unaccustomed position, we still, unless our attention be directed to the fact, interpret impressions made upon them as if they were in their ordinary relation to each other, and may thus be altogether misled : — as in the experiment mentioned by Aristotle, of rolling a pea or other globular body between two fingers of one hand, which are crossed instead of lying parallel, so that the surfaces that are usually most distant are brought into proximity with each other ; the sensation then received is that of a dis- tinct convex body opposed to each of these surfaces, so that the single body seems to be double; whereas, if the pea were rolled be- tween the two surfaces which are usually and normally approximated, it is felt but as a single globe. This intuitive reference is obviously analogous to that by which we judge of the relative situations of visual objects, from the direction in which their rays impinge upon the retina, or from the muscular sensations re- ceived from the muscles of the orbit. In a large proportion of other cases, how- ever, our interpretation of our tactile sensa- tions, especially of all those which relate to the configuration, density, &c. of external ob- jects, is based on experience ; and those who watch the eagerness with which the infant grasps and examines by its touch every attrac- tive object within its reach, are at no loss to perceive how the experience thus early inter- woven (as it were) with the mind, in combin- ation with that derived through the visual sense, comes to supply the place of the con- genital intuitions of the lower animals, and to cause the tactile and visual perceptions to be henceforth so indelibly associated, that each is continually suggesting the other. Thus, the notion of projection, which we derive through the sight, comes to be associated with that of solidity, which we receive through the touch ; and the visual notion of polish is so closely connected with the tactile notion of smoothness, that the one almost necessarily suggests the other. There is abundant evi- dence, however, that there is no necessary or we derive through these two senses respec- tively ; but that this connection is acquired by the consentaneous exercise of them. Thus, from observations made upon persons born blind, when visual power has been first ob- tained, it is certain that the notions of form previously acquired by the touch do not aid in the visual discrimination or recognition of objects : so that, for example, if any such person had previously learned to distinguish a sphere, a cube, and a pyramid, by the touch, he would not be able to say which was which by looking at them, until he had learned by experience to associate the two classes of per- ceptions : and, conversely, we cannot but be- lieve that the same result would occur, if a person whose notions of the external world were derived from the sight alone, were sud- denly and for the first time to become en- dowed with the sense of touch. It is, in fact, no less clear in regard to the sense of touch than it is in regard to vision, that it is not the sentient organ (as we are accustomed to term it), but the mind, which really perceives ; and that all the notions which we derive through this sense with re- spect to external objects, whether they be of the most general kind or of a more particular nature, are altogether distinct from the sensa- tions themselves. It has been well remarked by Professor Alison, that " one decisive proof of this being the true representation of this part of our mental constitution is obtained by attending to the idea of extension or space, which is undoubtedly formed during the exer- cise of the sense of touch, but which is no sooner formed than it ' swells in the human mind to infinity,' to which, certainly, no human sensation can bear any resemblance."* So, again, the elementary notion of an ex- ternal universe as something distinct from the individual self, is altogether distinct from the sensations which excites it. All that the mind is conscious of, is a change in the condi- tion of the corporeal organism ; and the re- ference of the source of this change to some external agency is a mental process in which the action of the purely sensorial apparatus has no concern. It has been thought by some that the notion of an external world depends more upon the sensations received through the touch, than upon those of any other kind. But there does not seem to the author to be any reason for considering that simply tactile impressions are more necessarily or intuitively recognised as proceeding from an external source than are the visual, olfactive, auditory, or gustative. But, as already shown, it is from the muscular sense that we derive the idea of force, involv- ing resistance to our own voluntary efforts; and it would seem to the writer to be on this notion that our belief in the existence of an universe external to ourselves most securely rests. The active co-operation of the mind is re- quired, not only for the formation of the