1159 TONGUE. 1 e 4 inches from the lips of a young man, nineteen years of age, the disease having been con- genital. It was of a brown and livid colour, rough, granulated, and fissured, and beneath the mucous membrane were abundant venous plexuses. This tongue was liable to periodic intumescence, when it became much larger, was very painful, and bled profusely. Mr. Liston has stated his belief, that, from the periodical enlargement and diminution of the tongue, and the erectile tissue being evident in many parts of its surface, the mass was partly composed of a structure resembling aneurism by anastomosis. These hypertrophied tongues, when cur- tailed by the knife or ligature sufficiently to be taken within the teeth, generally soon accommodate themselves to the form and dimensions of the oral cavity. Professor Lassus has given instances, where this has been accomplished by means of ban- daging and compressing the tongue. Atrophy of the tongue. — I am not ac- quainted with any instance of atrophy of the entire organ, nor with any unassociated with paralysis. It generally shosvs itself in cases of hemiplegia, when the tongue does not im- mediately recover, and results from diminished nutrition, the consequence of want of ex- ercise, being confined to the paralysed half, just as the arm and leg of the affected side become atrophied under the like circum- stances. It is more obvious, however, when the hypoglossal nerve alone is the seat of injury or disease. Professor Budd mentions, in his lectures, an instance which fell under the care of his brother, Dr. William Budd, of a man who sustained a stab in the neck, dividing the external carotid artery and hypo- glossal nerve on the left side. The artery was secured, and the man recovered with palsy of the left side of the tongue. At the end of some weeks that half of the tongue was much wasted, and all the movements of the organ were performed by the other half. The atrophy was confined to the muscular element of the organ : taste and touch re- mained uninjured.— {MS. Notes of Lecture.) Dupuytren mentions an example of atrophy and paralysis* of the left half of the tongue caused by the pressure, upon the hypoglossal nerve, of an hydatid cyst in the anterior con- dyloid foramen. In this condition, as well as in hemiplegia, the state of the tongue is remarkable from one part of the organ being passive, while the other is active. As long as it is at rest, the diminished size of the affected side is all that is observable. When the tongue is extruded, it is thrust over towards the affected side, — it emerges from the mouth obliquely, because the extruding muscles of the sound side have no antagonists. The paralysis of the intrinsic transverse muscular fibres gives rise to another phenomenon, which I have never seen de- * la both these cases the muscular motion was the only function implicated, which, as Dupuytren ob- serves, is interesting physiologically; taste and or- dinary sensation not being in the least affected. scribed,—it is the curved form of the tongue itself; the raphe in the middle of the tongue is not straight, but curved, and the concavity looks towards the affected side, These fibres, whose function it is to make narrow, and, by that, to lengthen the tongue, only act on one side, and only half the tongue is thus elon- gated ; and this, being adherent to the other half which sustains no elongation, is thrown into an arch, on the same principle as the curving of the compound wire in a Brcguet's thermometer. Diseases of the papilla:. — In considering the diseases of the surface of the tongue, authors have not taken sufficient care to consider the true anatomy of the papillary membrane, and their descriptions are consequently loose and ill-defined. It is of the utmost importance to state where the morbid changes are situated ; whether above or beneath the basement mem- brane ; whether it is the epithelium, or the vessels and sub-basement areolar tissue that have undergone the alteration. The papillae are liable to hypertrophy, atro- phy, effusion of blood or of fibrine into their interior ; they may be denuded of their epi- thelium, or that covering may be stained or rendered opaque, producing what is called fur. Hypertrophy of papillae. — The circumvallate papilla? are liable to be enlarged, the central portion forming a little tumour, rising above the surrounding ring of membrane. Dr. An- drew Ferguson has described them as increas- ing to the size of peas. There are generally several affected at once. I have seen them increased to this size, as well as, some of the fungiform papillae at the back of the tongue, in an individual suffering from scrofulous enlarge- ment of the tonsils. The polypoid tumours (retaining the same form and proportions as these papillae, though greatly enlarged), 1 believe to be nothing more than hypertrophied fungiform, or circumvallate papilla. The conical or filiform papilla? are liable to a peculiar change, which has, to the best of my knowledge, never been described. It consists in an enormous increase in their epithelial element, forming long cylindrical rods ; in fact, hairs: the only apparent channe in these organs being superficial to the base- ment membrane. I am in possession of the notes of two examples of this malady. For the first 1 am indebted to my brother, Dr. James Salter. He observes, " My patient was an old gentleman, impoverished by in- temperance ; his general health was good, and he was now temperate : for some years he had suffered from the peculiar affection of the tongue under which he now laboured. This affection was a great elongation of the conical and filiform papillae, in all parts of the tongue where these abound : they were eight or ten times their natural length, and over-lapped each other, like the pile of plush, or long velvet. The hypertrophy appeared to be en- tirely in the long axis ; there was no increase in circumference, and they were little larger at their base than the apex. They were soft, and lay over lapping each other on the sur-