887 TEETH. are separated by wide intervals, from which other teeth, similar to those in place, have been detached. The base of each of the above teeth is extended transversely, com- pressed antero-posteriorly, and anchylosed to a shallow alveolus, extending obliquely across the shallower alveolar groove. An affinity to the lizard tribes is manifested by the greater development of the outer, as compared with the inner wall of the alveolar furrow. The palatine teeth, of which there are three or four in each palatal bone, are as large as the superior maxillary, and are similarly attached. The pterygoid teeth, five or six in number, which complete the internal dental series on the roof of the mouth, are of smaller size, and gradually diminish as they recede backwards. In the interspaces of the fixed teeth in both these bones, the places of attachment of the shed teeth are always visible ; so that the dental formula, if it included the vacated with the occupied sockets, would express a greater number of teeth than are ever in place and use at the same time.* In the smaller species of Boa, the intermaxillary bone is edentulous. The Colubers, like other true serpents, have two longitudinal rows of teeth on the roof of the mouth, extending along the palatines and pterygoids. The genus Oligodon appears to form the sole exception to this rule. In the Drybius nasulus, a few small teeth are present on the ecto-pterygoid as well as on the pterygoid. In certain genera of non-poisonous ser- pents, as Dryophis, Dipsas, and Bucephalus, in which the superior maxillary teeth increase in size towards the posterior part of the bone, the large terminal teeth of the series are traversed along their anterior and convex side by a longitudinal groove. In the Bu- cephalus capensis, the two or three poste- rior maxillary teeth present this structure, and are much larger than the anterior teeth, or those of the palatine and premandibular series. They add materially, therefore, to the power of retaining the prey, and may conduct into the wounds which they inflict an acrid saliva ; but they are not in con- nection with the duct of an express poison- gland. The long-grooved fangs are either firmly fixed to the maxillary bones, or are slightly moveable, according to their period of growth. They are concealed by a sheath of thick and soft gum, and their points are directed backwards. The sheath always contains loose recumbent grooved teeth, ready to succeed those in place. In most of the C'olubri, each maxillary and premandibular bone includes from twenty to twenty-five teeth. They are less numerous in the genera Tortrix and Homahpsis, and are reduced to a still smaller number in the poisonous serpents, in the typical genera of which the short maxillary bone supports only a single perforated fang. * Odontography, pi. Go,fys. G & 7. Poisonous Serpents. — The transition to these serpents, which was begun in the Bueephali and allied genera with grooved maxillary teeth, is completed by the poisonous serpents of the genera Pclamis, Hydrophis, Elaps, Bongarus, and Hamadryas. The superior maxillary bone diminishes in length with the decreasing number of teeth which it supports. The eeto-pterygoid bone elongates in the same ratio, so as to retain its position as an abutment against the shortened maxillary, and the muscles implanted into this external pterj'goid bone communicate through it to the maxillary bone the hinge-like movements backwards and forwards upon the ginglymoid articulations connecting that bone with the prefrontal and palatine hones. As the fully-developed poison-fangs are at- tached by the same firm basal anchylosis to maxillary sockets, which forms the charac- teristic mode of attachment of the simple or solid teeth, they necessarily follow all the movements of the superior maxillary bone. When the external pterygoid is retracted, the superior maxillary rotates backwards, and the poison-fang is concealed in the lax mucous gum, with its point turned backwards. When the muscles draw forward the external ptery- goid, the superior maxillary bone is pushed forwards, and the recumbent fang withdrawn from its concealment and erected. In this power of changing the direction of a large tooth, so that it may not impede the passage of food through the mouth, we may perceive an analogy between the viper and the Lophius; but in the fish the movement is confined to the tooth alone, and is depen- dent on the mere physical property of the elastic medium of attachment; in the serpent the tooth has no independent motion, but rotates with the jaw, whose movements are governed by muscular actions. In the fish the great teeth are erect, except when pressed down by some extraneous force. In the ser- pent the habitual position of the fang is the recumbent one, and its erection takes place only when the envenomed blow is to be struck. A true idea of the structure of a poison- fang will be formed by supposing the crown of a simple tooth, as that of a boa, to be pressed flat, and its edges to be then bent towards each other, and soldered together so as to form a hollow cylinder, or rather cone, open at both ends. The flattening of the fang and its inflection around the poison-dutt commences immediately above the base, and the suture of the inflected margins runs along the anterior and convex side of the recurved fang, as shown in fig. 567, a. : the poison- canal is thus in front of the pulp-cavity, as shown in the longitudinal section of the fang b. The basal aperture of the poison-canal v is oblique, and its opposite outlet v' is still more so, presenting the form of a narrow elliptical longitudinal fissure terminating at a short distance from the apex of the fang. The relative position of the two apertures of the poison-canal is shown in the figure of 3i, 4