947 TERATOLOGY. 3 P 2 to the placenta of the Ruminants. The smallest amount of deviation is a division into two coherent lobes, which are separated only by a small constriction (J. F. Meckel, Ebert). Such a placenta has an oblong form. Sometimes there is a single lobe adjoined to the placenta (placenta sucecnturiata) ; it is of much smaller dimensions than the placenta itself, and united to it by vessels, without a cord. The placenta may also be divided into three (Rohault, Schvvencke), four (Hoboken), five (Meckel), or seven lobes (Kerckring, Wrisberg). In the observation of Kerckring, the arrest at a lower stage of development is clearly shown by the presence of the Vena omphalo-mesenterica. 3. The vessels of the umbilical cord are sepa- rated near the placenta, and meet at a con- siderable distance from it (Sandifort, Wrisberg, Adolph). In one of the published cases, this disposition of the vessels was the cause of their rupture, which produced the child's death by haemorrhage. Sometimes they were ob- served to run separately from the placenta to Fig. 597. the abdomen of the foetus, into which they penetrated through separate openings. In most cases they meet each other just at the umbilicus (Gavel, Van Solingen). 4. The umbilical cord loo long. — The com- mon length of the cord is twenty inches (Roederer, Wrisberg), but it may be Ibrty- eight inches (Wrisberg), sometimes even five feet (Morlanne). The usual effect of such an abnormal length of the cord is a circumvolu- tion of it round the body of the foetus. An example of it is given in a very misformed foetus in fig. 597. A circumvolution of this kind may some- times become dangerous : 1. By acting as a ligature round the neck, and producing stran- gulation of the foetus (Buchanan, Hebenstreit); 2. By constricting one of the extremities, and producing the spontaneous amputation of Montgomery (Art. Fcetus,^. 157. Vol. 11.) 3. By forming single or compound knots. Although these are in general not dangerous, while the vessels are sufficiently protected against pressure by the Whartonian gelatine, they may nevertheless in some cases be drawn so tight as to obstruct the communication between mother and child (Sandifort, Irvets, D. W. H. Busch) ; and sometimes the um- bilical cord breaks off near the knot when the vessels have become obliterated by the pres- sure. Fig. 598. gives an example of this in an acephalus. Fie. 598. Malformed Fat us, showing the cord entwined around the neck and part of the boily. (After Bonn.~) 5. The umbilical cord too short. — Wrisberg gives as a minimum a measure of seven inches. It may, however, be much less. This short- ness of the cord is in general accompanied by a deformity of the foetus, usually by ectopia of the abdominal viscera, by which it indi- dicates an arrest of developement at an earlier period of embryogenesis. In this way we should interpret the accounts of absence of the umbilical cord. 6. Absence of one of the umbilical arteries, is even observed in double monsters, but occurs principally in ectopia viscerum abdomi-