1235 TUNICATA. 4 k 2 represented merely by the membrane that surrounds the egg, and which, as before re- marked, may be compared to the calyx of birds. The testicle, on the contrary, is well developed, but, not increasing in bulk in proportion to the growth of the young Salpa, it only acquires its greatest development in nearly adult animals. It is always found in the neighbourhood of the intestine, but its position varies in different species. Some- times occupying the centre of the visceral mass or nucleus, formed by the intestinal loop and its appendages, its presence is evident only in proportion as it raises those parts ; sometimes showing itself quite exposed, it more or less covers a large portion of the digestive apparatus. This organ in the aggregate form of Salpa pinnata, S. pro- boscidalis, &c. is spindle-shaped, and rests against the intestine, and has been taken for the liver by Cuvier, Chamisso, and Meyen. The testicle is composed of a greater or less number of ramified canals, the last ramifica- tions of which end in culs-de-sac. All these canals end in a principal duct, which, passing along the terminal portion of the intestine, opens at the side of the anus in the great natatory or respiratory cavity traversing the body of the Salpa. The testicle is very much slower in its de- velopment than the egg organ in these ani- mals ; and, as young aggregate Salpians are met with in which a fecundated egg and undeveloped testicle are co-existent, these individuals must have had connection with others in which the development of the latter organ was further advanced ; the sperm that fecundated the eggs being supplied by another group of animals. The maturity of the sperm does not coincide with that of the egg, yet, as the two sexual organs are present in the same bod}', these animals are herma- phrodite, although probably not self-impreg- nating. They have two generative functions to perform : the one to produce a new being, the other to fecundate an ulterior genera- tion of animals similar in all respects to themselves. The "aggregate" Salpians pro- bably perish soon after they have given birth to their "isolate" offspring. The placenta, or attachment of the fecial "iso- late" in the " aggregate" Salpce.—The embryos of the Salpa;, undergoing all the phases of de- velopment within their mother, adhere to her by the aid of an organ, the use of which is to furnish them with the necessary nutritive ele- ments. These elements being derived from the blood of the mother, the vessels of the latter enter largely into the composition of this organ. Its structure and form vary much according to the mode of propagation peculiar to each generation. The propagation in the "iso- lated " Salpians is by gemmation, and here the organ in question is the proliferous stolon. In the " aggregate" Salpian, on the other hand, this organ is represented by a body generally round, situated on the inferior surface of their smgle foetus, and fixed to the internal wall of the maternal cavity, precisely in the position occupied by the egg, and to this organ many naturalists have with reason attributed the functions of a placenta. This Dlacenta is ordinarily situated in the external tunic of the foetus; its structure is far from being well known. In appearance it is a soft, whitish, or brownish pulp, traversed by nu- merous vessels ; it is attached by a very short pedicle, which is formed by a prolongation proceeding from the inner tunic, and envelop- ing this organ. The vessels distributed in the interior of the placenta communicate with four trnnks, two of which communicate with the vascular system of the foetus, and the other two with that of the mother. Those of the foetus, in descending towards the placenta, traverse the peduncle; the one conducting the blood to this organ, and the other re- turning it to the foetus. The two maternal trunks have analogous functions ; they ter- minate at the point where the placenta is attached to the mother. Each of these fcetal and maternal trunks alternately act as arteries and veins. This alternation is due to the periodic changes that determine the contrac- tions of the heart in Tunicates generally. The vessels of the foetus and of the mother are not in direct communication ; but, as in Mammalia, they are merely contiguous. M. Krohn's microscopical observations also tend to prove that the maternal blood never com- mingles with the fcetal blood. The blood-cor- puscles of the foetus are distinguishable from those of the mother by their less size and by the more constant regularity of their forms. The development of the placenta com- mences at any early stage of enbryonic life, and in its progress corresponds to that of the foetus. Ultimately the placenta becomes detached from the maternal tissues, and is carried away by the young born animal. It remains for a long time in connection with the young animal, but decreases rapidly in size, and ultimately disappears before the full growth of the animal is perfected. Eleohlast of the fetal Salpa:. — There is another organ belonging to the fcetus, men- tioned by authors, especially Chamisso, Me\en, and Krohn, which is a round whitish body, lodged, like the placenta, in the external tunic of the fcetus. Its use is entirely un- known. It appears to be composed of a multitude of fascicles or lamellas, that, by their intercrossing with one another, cir- cumscribe cellular cavities, filled with a per- fectly clear oily liquid, composed chiefly of globules. The fascicles or lamellas are tra- versed by numerous vessels opening into two trunks, which apparently form the at- tachment between this organ and the visceral nucleus. Meyen thought it to be the vitelline sac of the foetus ; but, according to M. Krohn, this opinion is inadmissible, because the " aggregate" embryos, which we know are not produced from e«gs, are provided with it. This bod}', M. Krohn terms the "eleoblast." During the incubation of the foetus, and after