9G8 TERATOLOGY. preserved in the splendid Museum of the London College of Surgeons. c. In the anterior mediastinum. — As in a case recorded by Gordon, in a female of twenty- one years. d. In the scrotum and the testes. — Such cases have been noticed by Rosenberger, Ilartmann, D S.J. Wendt, Velpeau. Some- times the rudiments of a second foetus are found in the interior of the testis, sometimes at its exterior surface. e. In the stomach. f. In the intestinal canal. — Hi»hrnore has given such a case in a youth of fifteen or six- teen years, in the gut of whom an acephalus was found. g. In the orbit. — According to Barnes. h. /// the tentorium of the dura mater. i. At the palate. — It is then in the form of a fungous excrescence, consisting of the rudiments of a second foetus (Otto, Sandi- fort, Ehrman, Stadenski). 2. The more or less developed rudiments of a foetus adhere, in the form of a tumour, to the external surface of a second body, and aie covered by the external integu- ments. a. To the cheek. — G. Vrolik observed in a new-born male child, a sac of large circum- ference, covered by the external skin, anil ad- hering to the region of the left cheek, but without communication with the mouth. In this sac there were tuberculous cartilages, os- seous nuclei, and organised parts of indefinite form and composition. b. To the neck.— According to Joube. c. To the epigastric and umbilical region. — As recorded by E. B. Gaither. d. To the sacral and perineal region.—This is the most frequent mode of adhesion, as is proved by a great many observations, among which those of Himly and of Fleischmann deserve special mention. This adhesion takes place in different manners: 1. by external cellular tissue ; 2. by internal union with the abdominal and pelvic cavity (Himly, Schau- mann, and Stanley); 3. by communication with the spinal canal. There is sometimes no vascular communication between the foetus and its appendix (W. Vrolik) ; and in other cases there are large branches going from the arteria sacra media of the foetus to the sac. In general, the sac has its own integuments, over which passes the skin of the foetus. The genital parts and the anus are always quite separate from the sac, which merely lies in apposition with them. In the majority of the known cases, the rudiments of a foetus contained in the sac are but confused and ill-determined organic substances, intermin- gled with a few osseous and cartilaginous nuclei. In one case it was possible to recog- nise the cranium with the face and the naked encephalous masses (Wedemeyer) ; Mayer and Blizard found an intestinal loop ; Himly saw distinct super-maxillary bones, and ru- diments of temporal, frontal, and sphenoid bones, &c. If we take a survey of all the cases which are designated as foetus in fietu, it is clear that some may be compared with parasitical dis- eases formed in the interior of the body of the foetus. I presume that this is the case, when the mass which is found consists only of hair, fat, teeth, and some osseous nuclei, contained in a cystic tumour. In other cases the rudiments of a foetus are included with a more or less perfect indication of an ovum in the body of a second foetus, or adhere exter- nally to it. The large number of theories on the origin of this monstrosity have been criti- cised by Himly. It is certain that none of them can be maintained. It is most pro- bable that the fcetus in fectu is an incomplete effort to form a double monster. In this sense, some cases of fcetus in fcetu make a transition towards that form of double mon- sters which is named heteradelph, II. Double Monsters, in which one of the Foe- tuses is more or less perfect and the other merely an Appendix to it (Heterudelphi). Under this name of heteradelphs, which we owe to Geoffroy St. Hilaire, we understand that species of double monsters of which one foetus is large and perfect, and another, or part of another, adheres to it like a para- site. They should be considered as twins, of which one has been developed at the expense of the other, which other sometimes becomes partially included in its body. According to the more or less perfect state of the appen- dix, they are reduced to different species. First Species. — The appendix consisting of a head only. — This may be connected : — 1. With the epigastric region (VVinslow, Hesse), 2. With the cranium (E. Home), 3. With the back (Chabelard), 4. With the palate (Hofmann), or 5. With the under-jaw of the perfect foetus (Geoffroy St. Hilaire, G. Sandifort). Second Species. — The appendix consists of more or less developed extremities only. — Supernumerary extremities, more or less deve- loped, are connected with some part of the body of a perfect foetus, as : 1. Pelvis and two inferior extremities con- nected with the epigastric region of the per- fect foetus (Serres, E. Sandifort, Trombelli, Mayer, Winslow, Reschel, Buxtorff, Cantwell, Lycosthenes). The appendix is sometimes more, sometimes less perfect; sometimes connected with the sternum, sometimes with the epigastric region or in communication with them by a cylin- drical cutaneous prolongation. In the appen- dix are regularly formed organs of generation, kidneys, an intestinal loop in communication with the intestinal canal of the supporting fcetus, and vessels which anastomose with those of the latter. The adhering parasite is therefore one with its supporter. 2. Pelvis and the two inferior extremities connected with the lateral wall of the abdo- men of the perfect foetus (W. Vrolik). 3. Pelvis and two inferior extremities con-