1013 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY}. 3 t 3 as the inguinal canal, and as low down as the epididymis. In examining the testicles of a young man who died of pleurisy, I found a quantity of fat along the cord, and around the epididymis, and some also beneath the tunica vaginalis covering the posterior part of the testicle. In another case I met with small isolated masses of fat, coupled with a small encysted hydrocele of the cord. When de- veloped in considerable abundance this de- posit sometimes forms a tumour either in the groin or in the scrotum. A tumour of this kind in the scrotum has been mistaken for omental hernia. I once dissected a lobulated fatty tumour, surrounded by the thickened sheath of the spermatic cord, on the body of a man upwards of eighty years of age, which was very similar in appearance to a portion of omentum contained in a hernial sac. A mass of fat, however, in the cord may form a more defined and distinct swelling. Such a tumour is preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. (No. 2461.) It is em- bedded about an inch above the testicle, in the tissues of the spermatic cord and loosely connected with them. Its shape is oval ; it measures four inches in length, and consists of numerous lobes of soft fat, closely held together by their thin fibro-cellular par- titions. An interesting case of large fatty tumour in the scrotum, originating in the spermatic cord, was seen by several surgeons, in 1844, much difficulty having been ex- perienced in making out the nature of the swelling. The tumour, together with the testicle, was excised by Mr. Lawrence.* Another of the same character, but of smaller size, subsequently formed in the remains of the cord in the groin, and was excised by me in Ma}-, 184-9. Collections of fat in the scrotum have been known from the time of Galen by the term steafocele. I suspect that they all originated from the spermatic cord. Morbid anatomy of the scrotum.— The morbid appearances presented by the scrotum, when the seat of oedema, inflammation, and mortification, so closely resemble those of other parts where loose areolar tissue abound, that they require no particular description. Elephantiasis. — This disease of the scro- tum is rarely seen in Europe, but is of very common occurrence in many other parts of the globe. It consists in a morbid thickening, or hypertrophy of the tissues of which the scro- tum is composed. The epidermis becomes thickened, rough as in icthyosis, and inter- sected with fissures, or chaps. The corium is excessively consolidated, and often nearly an inch in thickness, and very dense. The chief bulk, however, of the tumour, is formed by the conversion of the loose areolar tissue of the scrotum into a large mass of fibrous tissue, infiltrated with a thick jelly-like fluid, evidently albumen, as it coagulates on the ap- * Vide accounts of this case by Lawrence, Me- dical Gazette, May 30. 1845; by Brodie, Lectures on Pathology, p. 271. ; by Edwards, and myself, in Provincial Med. and Surg. Journal, June 25. 1845. plication of heat, acid, or alochol, and some- times on cooling after its removal from the body. The areolae of this tissue vary a good deal in size, but some of them have been found large enough to admit the extremity of the little finger. Examined in the micro- scope this structure exhibits the white and yellow elements of the areolar tissue, in some instances mixed with fat cells. When the part is condensed by inflammation, there are often hardened masses in the substance of the tumour, which has a lardaceous appearance when cut, or resembles cartilage; they some- times undergo conversion into bone. The testicles are buried in the morbid mass to- wards its posterior part, but they are usually sound in structure. Occasionally there is a small quantity of serum in the tunica vagi- nalis. In a case operated on in Calcutta, there was a hydrocele on both sides imbedded in the diseased parts, the largest of which contained between five and six pints of fluid.* The spermatic cords are elongated several inches, owing to the testicles being gradually dragged downwards during the growth of the tumour, but the cords are not otherwise diseased. In the remarkable case of Iloo Loo, a native of China, operated on by Mr. Key, in Guy's Hospital, the cremaster mus- cles were nearly as thick as the finger. The morbid growth is not very vascular. Its arteries are derived chiefly from the external pudic and perineal vessels; but these, owing to the magnitude of the tumour, become greatly increased in size. The veins are numerous, large, varicose, and very tortuous. The integuments of the penis are often affected with a similar disease, and enlarge in the same ratio as the scrotum. In cases where the disease is confined to the scrotum, the penis becomes drawn in and ultimately disappears, being completely imbedded in the tumour ; whilst the prepuce being elongated, opens by a navel-like aperture on the anterior surface of the tumour, as may be seen in the subjoined woodcut. In confirmed cases of elephantiasis, the tumour increases until in the course of years it attains an enormous magni- tude. As this takes place, the skin is bor- rowed from the lower part of the abdomen, so that the hair on the pubes becomes thinly scattered on the front and upper part of the tumour. The tumour assumes an oval or pyramidal form, the apex being superior, and is attached to the body by a thick peduncle extending from the pubes, occupying the whole ot the perineum, and terminating pos- teriorly at the verge of the anus. There is scarcely any limit to the size which the tumour may attain. It has been known to acquire such a magnitude as to weigh mere than two hundred pounds-f-, exceeding the weight of the rest of the body. It has been found to measure more than four feet in cir- * Calcutta Quarterly Journal, Xo. 3. t Case cited from Eplie'me'rides d'Allemagne, by Larrey. Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, t. ii. p. 115.