TEETH. 924 impressed upon it by the form of the socket, and gradually widening from the projecting apex to that part which was formed when the matrix and the socket had reached their full size. " These incisive teeth of the elephant not only surpass other teeth in size, as belonging to a quadruped so enormous, but they are the largest of all teeth in proportion to the size of the body; representing in a natural state those monstrous incisors of the Rodents, which are the result of accidental suppression of the wearing force of the opposite teeth." The tusks of the elephant, like those of the Mastodon, consist chiefly of that modifi- cation of dentine which is called " ivory," and which shows, on transverse fractures or sec- tions, striae proceeding in the arc of a circle from the centre to the circumference, in op- posite directions, and forming by their decus- sations curvilinear lozenges. This character is peculiar to the Proboscidian Pachyderms. In the Indian elephant the tusks are always short and straight in the female, and less deeply implanted than in the male : she thus retaining, as usual, more of the charac- ters of the immature state. In the male the}' have been known to acquire a length of nine feet, with a basal diameter of eight inches, and to weigh one hundred and fifty pounds ; but these dimensions are rare in the Asiatic •species. Mr. Corse, speaking of the variety of Indian elephant, called "Dauntelah" from its large tusks, which project almost horizontally with a slight curve upwards and outwards, says," The largest I have known in Bengal did not exceed seventy-two pounds avoirdupois; at Tiperah they seldom exceed fifty pounds." There are varieties of the Dauntelah in which the large tusks of the male are nearly or quite straight ; and in a more marked breed called " Mooknah," the tusks are much smaller, are straight, and point directly downwards. These ascertained varieties in an existing species ought to weigh with the observers of analo- gous varieties in the teeth of fossil Probos- cidians, before they pronounce definitely on their value as characters of distinct species. More anomalous varieties occasionally pre- sent themselves in the Indian Elephant, as when one tusk is horizontal, the other ver- tical; or when, from some distortion of the alveolus, a spiral direction is impressed upon the growth of the tusk, as in that specimen figured by Grew in the " Rarities of Gresham College," Tab. 4., and which is now in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. The tusk of the elephant is slightly moveable in its socket, and readily receives a new direction of growth from habitual pres- sure ; this often causes distorted tusks in captive elephants, and Cuvier * relates the mode in which advantage was taken of the eame impressibility, in order to rectify the growth of such tusks in an elephant kept at the Garden of Plants. The tusks of the extinct Elephas primi- * Ossemens Fossiles, 4to. 1821, torn. i. p. 47. genius, or Mammoth, have a bolder and more extensive curvature than those of the Elephas indicus: some have been found which describe a circle; but, the curve being oblique, they thus clear the head, and point outwards, downwards, and backwards. The numerous fossil tusks of the Mammoth which have been discovered and recorded, may be ranged under two averages of size: the larger ones at nine feet and a half, the smaller at five feet and a half in length. I have elsewhere * as- signed reasons for the probability of the latter belonging to the female Mammoth, which must accordingly have differed from the exist- ing elephant of India, and more resembles that of Africa in the development of her tusks ; yet manifesting an intermediate cha- racter by their smaller size. Of the tusks which are referable to the male Mammoth, one from the newer tertiary deposits in Essex, measured nine feet ten inches along the outer curve, and two feet five inches in circum- ference at its thickest part; another from Eschscholtz Bay was nine feet two inches in length, and two feet one and a half inches in circumference, and weighed one hundred and sixty pounds. A Mammoth's tusk has been dredged up off Dungeness which measured eleven feet in length. In several of the in- stances of Mammoth's tusks from British strata, the ivory has been so little altered as to be fit for the purposes of manufacture ; and the tusks of the Mammoth, which are still better preserved in the frozen drift of Siberia, have long been collected in great numbers as articles of commerce.-j- Cuvier \ states that the elephant of Africa, at least in certain localities, has large tusks in both sexes, and that the female of this species, which lived seventeen years in the menagerie of Louis XIV., had larger tusks than those in any Indian elephant, male or female, of the same size which he had seen. The ivory of the tusks of the African ele- phant is most esteemed by the manufacturer for its density and whiteness. The molar teeth of the elephant are re- markable for their great size, even in relation to the bulk of the animal, and for the extreme complexity of their structure. The crown, of which a great proportion is buried in the socket, and very little more than the grinding surface appears above the gum, is deeply di- vided into a number of transverse perpen- dicular plates {Jig. 557), consisting each of a body of dentine (a), coated by a layer of enamel (<?), and this again by the less dense bone-like * History of British Fossil Mammalia, 8vo. 1844, p. 244. f In the account of the Mammoth's bones and teeth of Siberia, published in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1737 (No. 446), tusks are cited which weighed two hundred pounds each, and " are used as ivory, to make comhs, boxes, and such other things; being but little more brittle, and easily turning yellow by weather and heat." Prom that time to the present there has been no inter- mission in the supply of ivory, furnished by the tusks of the extinct elephants of a former world. % Loc. cit., p. 55.