THYMUS GLAND. 1091 pedicles (figs. 725. and 726.). This budding Fig. 725. Fie. 726. Second stage of developement of primary tube forming follicles. {After Simon.) out of the primary tube does not occur simul- taneously at every part, or uniformly, but chiefly at those situations which are ulti- mately to attain the largest size ; thus in the foetal calf we find tolerably v/ell developed bulgings of the primary tube opposite the angle of the jaw, the upper part of the trachea, and the pericardium, while the intervening portions have smooth and undulated margins ; and it is just the parts of the gland corre- sponding to the above points, which ulti- mately attain the greatest magnitude. The third stage of developement consists in the ramification of the follicles which have budded out from the central cavity; — they do not usually elongate much, before they throw off fresh offsets, and these are completely sessile, so that they have the appearance of vesicles or imperfect spheres grouped together : the mode in which the primary offset divides is either dichotomous or quaternary (figs. 727. and 728.), probably also often with some degree of irregularity and inequality in the size of contiguous offsets. By the extension Figs. 727, 728. Third stage of developement. Ramification of follicles by dichotomous and quaternary division. {After Simon.) of this follicular growth to all parts of the primary tube, and by successive lateral rami- fications, occurring, as we have seen, to a greater extent in some parts than in others, the gland attains its mature size and complex structure. In this state however it consists, in very great measure, of vesicular cavities, which cluster around and completely obscure the primary tube from which they have origi- nated ; yet this primary tube or reservoir does exist, and is capable, as we have seen, of being demonstrated, so that the term which Mr. Simon has proposed, as expressing the type of the mature structure, viz. tubulo- vescicular, is sufficiently correct (fig. 729.). Two varieties have been observed in the seeond stage of the process ; one is, that " the tube sometimes bulges uniformly in its whole cir- cumference for some extent, forming a very distinct ampulla;"' the other, " that in parts where there are yet no bulgings, it is some- times flexuous, or even contorted." The observations now detailed respecting the progressive developement of the thymus, are so important in the elucidation of its structure, that I thought it very desirable to repeat them, if possible, and confirm their ac- curacy by independent testimony. I have not, however, been able to procure a foetus at a sufficiently early period to discover the primary tube of the thymus, with its smooth 4 a 2