12C5 URETHRA. Its nerves arise from the piulic and the hy- pogastric plexus of the sympathetic. 'Prostate gland of the female. — Has the fe- male a prostate? Guthrie, in his work on " Diseases of the Bladder and Urethra," as- signs a prostate to the female, which, accord- ing to him, has a form like that of the male prostate, and nearly a similar structure. He says it surrounds the commencement of the urethra. He further states it to be the size of the prostate of a boy before the age of pu- berty ; and rather regards it as existing in a rudimentary form than as an organ possessing any follicular or glandular structure. He con- siders it as of use in giving the urethra support, and as affording a fixed point for the action of some of the muscular fibres of the bladder. Guthrie quotes the authority of De Graaf, " De Mulierum Organis," in support of his opinion. " Sed idterius, inquiret aliquis, unde illi ductus sive lacuna; humorem ilium hauriant? priores ilia; scilicet, quocirca colli orijicium et meatus urinarii exitum conspiciuntur ex parasta- tis mulierum seu potius crasso et membranoso corpore circumcirca meatum urinarium existcnte humorem suum accipiunt; posteriores vero ex nervoso-membranosd colli uterini substantia liquo- rem suum colligunt." De Graaf, however, refers to that mass of follicles surrounding the meatus and com- mencement of the urethra, rather than to any special organ worthy of the designation of jn-os/ate. Cowper also denominates the mass of follicles surrounding the meatus as the " corpus glandulosum." I confess that I have not been able to trace a prostate in connection with the female urethra: there is, however, generally found a firm mass around the canal, which is much thicker at the under part than at the upper, and to which I believe Mr. Guthrie refers. It is certainly not muscular; but it does not present evidences of glandular structure; containing merely a large quantity of areolar and elastic fibre. Accord- ing to the notions of the homologies of the male and female now prevalent, the prostate should be represented in the female by a rudi- mentary structure in connection with the uterus rather than the urethra, inasmuch as it is essentially a sexual organ, and developed in the embryo from the prolomctra. Pathology. — The female urethra is wanting where the entire uropoietic system is absent, as also when the bladder is defi- cient : it is also wanting in cases of ecrophy of the female bladder, and in cloacal formation. In consequence of arrest of development, it may terminate in the vagina, or may receive the vagina or rectum at the posterior part. Sometimes the urethra is abnormally di- lated, as a congenital malformation.* This is rare : it is more frequently dilated after the removal of calculi, &c., from the bladder. Rare instances have been known in which the act of copulation has been performed through the urethra instead of the vagina. * Rokitansky's Pathological Anatomy, vol. ii., Sydenham Society's edition. VOL. IV. Preternatural contractions of the urethra sometimes occur from pressure of the displaced uterus or the prolapsed vagina: they some- times arise, as in the male, from inflammation, and constitute true stricture of the canal: this is exceedingly rare. The urethra deviates from its normal direc- tion in prolapsus of the bladder and uterus ;— it takes on more or less of a serpentine direc- tion ; — this distortion of the canal not unfre- quently gives rise to retention of urine. As the uterus enlarges during pregnancy the blad- der is carried upwards, and, with it, the urethra is slightly raised. The urethra may, however, be excessively dilated without incontinence of urine, of which an instance has come to my own know- ledge. A woman of the town was admitted into the London Hospital, in consequence of retention of the menses : she had imperforate hymen; the urethra was enormously dilated, and no doubt she had admitted sexual inter- course through. She had no incontinence of urine. Dr. Chamberlain also met with a case of imperforate hymen, where the urethra ad- mitted the forefinger.* Dr. Oldham has ob- served the same in atresia vagina;, unattended with incontinence of urine. The urethra suffers a partial or total in- version, forming a tumour at the vulva, attended with difficulty and pain in voiding urine. M. Sernin mentions the case of a girl eleven years of age, who experienced difficulty in making water. He examined her after a vio- lent attack, and found a cylindrical body, four inches long, hanging from the vulva; and whenever she attempted to make water this projection swelled up. It was removed with success. It was presumed to be an inverted urethra.f The female urethra is liable to injuries of various characters: the most common are simple contusions and lacerations, or it may be divided partially or completely by cutting instruments. The urethra frequently suffers contusion with the neck of the bladder in cases of protracted labour, from pressure of the child's head against the pubis. Under these circumstances sloughing often succeeds, and a fistulous communication between the urethral orifice of the bladder and vagina results, lead- ing to incontinence of urine. Lacerations of the female urethra are very uncommon, and require no particular observa- tions ; a simple retention of the parts by suture would be advisable to secure their re-union. Simple incisions of the urethra, as in the operation of lithotomy, generally reunite suc- cessfully : this, however, is not invariably the result, and hence the occasional occurrence of incontinence of urine. The urethra, although extremely dilatable, is occasionally stretched beyond its natural capacity, in the removal of * See also Portal, Ccurs d'Anat. Me'd. vol. iiL p. 476. f Kecul. Period, torn. xvii. p. 304. 4 M