TUNICATA. 1243 There have been certain organic remains* figured and described as belonging to the Tunicate family, but which (with the exception of the obscure and indeterminate Ischadites Kcenigu) have been found to belong to the family of the Cystidea of Von Buch, closely allied to the crinoidean family of the Radiata. At first sight there is considerable resem- blance between many of these eystidean forms and the ascidian genus Boltenia, the body being globose or subcylindrical and pedun- culated. In the Cystidea there are two more or less terminal orifices, and a third lateral aperture. The whole animal is coated with hex- agonal plates variously ornamented ; the stem, perforated throughout and giving evidence of quinary arrangement. " The mouth," says Von Buch, " is planted in the central part of the upper surface, generally in a moveable proboscis, covered with minute plates ; the anal orifice is small, close to the mouth, per- forating a plate, not surrounded by separate valvules ; and the third aperture, probably the ovarial orifice of the animal, is placed further towards the middle, but almost inva- riably on the upper half of the body on which the mouth is placed. It is round or oval in form, not connected with the mouth, and often covered by a five or six-sided pyramid, which seems to be composed of as many little valves." We have introduced this description that we may here point out the general similarity of the external form of these obsolete radiate animals to some of the ascidian group, and that vie may in particular point out the very similar armature of ornamented hexagonal plates present in Chelyosoma, with its valve- surrounded orifices. With regard to the ad- ditional orifices, we have but to lengthen out the oviduct or efferent vessel of the Ascidia, and continue it to the surface, as in the mal- formation noticed and drawn by John Hunter, and a very similar arrangement of parts will apparently exist. There are several points of analogy between some forms of Ascidia; and of Zoophyta asci- doida (Bowcrbanhia, &c.) and the Radiata: into this subject we must not now enter ; we can only allude to the observations of Messrs. Forbes and Goodsir on the Pelunaia (see p. 1239.), and leave the subject open to further investigation. Bibliography. — Besides the works, connected with the subject, that are referred to in the text, the following are some of the most important. —■ Peron, Me'moire sur le Noveau Genre Pyrosoma. Annales du Muse'um d'Histoire Naturelle, t. iv. 1804. Lesueur, Me'moire sur l'Organisation des Pyrosomes, et sur la Place qu'ils doivent occuper dans une Classification Naturelle. Lu a. la Societe Philo- matique de Paris, le 4. Mars, 1815. Journal de Physique, Juin, 1815, t. lxxx. Desmarest et Lesueur, Me'moire sur le Botrylle etoile' (BotryJhts .stellatus). Lu a. la Socie'te' Philomatique de Paris, le 22. Avril, 1815. Journal de Physique, Juin, 1815, t. lxxx. Desmarest et Lesueur, Extraits de deux Me'moires lus a. la Societe Philomatique de Paris, en Mars et Avril, 1815, sur 1'Organization de deux * Leucophthalmus, Koenig (Splueronites), Sa- conites, Kafmesque, &c. Animaux Marins places jusqu'ici dans la Classe des Radiaires, et qui doivent etre rapportes a. celles des Mollusques, &c. Bulle'tin de la Societe' Philoma- tique de Paris, livraison de Mai, 1815. Cuvier, Me'moire sur les Thalides (Thalia, Brown), et sur les Bipliores (Salpa, Forskaohl). Annales du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, t. iv. 1804. Cuvier, Me'moire sur les Ascidies et sur leur Anatomic. Me'moires du Muse'um d'Histoire Xaturelle, t. ii. 1815. Chiaje, S. deJle, Memoria sulla Storia e Kotomia degli Animali senza Vertebre del Regno di Napoli, 4 vols. 4to. Napoli, 1823—1829. Ibid. Figure, 4to. 1822—1828. Savigny, J. C, Me'- moires sur les Animaux sans Vertebres, pt. i. and fasc. 1. de pt. ii. Recherches Anatomiques sur les Ascidies Compose'es, et sur les Ascidies Simples, 8vo. Paris, 1816. Fleming (Dr.), British Animals, 8vo. Edinburgh. Supplem. Encyclop. Brit. art. Molluscs. Quoy et Gaimard, Voyage de l'Astro- labe, Zoologie, t. iii. Quay et Gaimard, Voyage de l'Oranie, t. ii. Blainville, Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles, art. Mollusques. ChamissO, Dissertatio de quibusdam Animalibus e Vermium Classe Lin- na;ana. Fasc. 1. De Salpa. Berolini, 1819, 4to. MacLeay, Anatomical Observations on the Natural Group of Tunicata, with the Description of three Species collected in Fox Channel during the late Northern Expedition. Read June 15. 1824. Trans. Linn. Soc. vol. xiv. 1825. Meyen, Beitrage zur Zoologie, gesammelt auf einer Reise um die Erde. Erste Abtheilung, iiber die Salpen. Nova Acta Acad. Goes. Leop. Car. Natur. Curios, t. xvi. pars prior, 1832. Eschricht, Anatomisk-physiologiske Undersogelser over Salpeme. Royal Danish Trans- actions, vol. viii. 1841. Eschricht, Anatomisk Beskrivelse af C/ielyosoma 3Iac-Leayunum. Royal Danish Transactions, vol. ix. 1842. Sars, Beskri- velser og Iagttagelser oder Nogle Majrkelige eller nye i habet bed den Bergenske Kyst lebende dyr af Polypernes, Acalepheraes, Radiathernes, An- nelidernes og Molluskernes Classer, 4to. Bergen, 1835. Sars, Fauna littoralis Norwegian, 1st part (Salpa). Dalzell, A singular Mode of Propagation among the lower Animals (Ascidia and Aplidium). Edinb. New Philos. Journ. vol. xxvi. 1839; and Isis, viii. 1839. Dalzell, On some of the rarer Animals on the Coast of Scotland, &c. Home ( Sir E.), Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. ii. (Salpa). 4to. London, 1814. Carus, Beitrage zur Kenntniss des inneren Baues und der Entwicke- lungs Geschichte der Ascidien. Nov. Act. Nat. Cur. vol. x. Carus, Beitrage zur Anatomie und Physiologie der Seescheiden. Meckel's Archiv. f. Physiol. B. ii. H. iv. Carus, Anatomie Compar. vol. ii. Eysenhardt, Ueber einige merkwurdige Lebens- erscheinungen an Ascidien. Nov. Act. Nat. Cur., t. xi. Lister, Phil. Trans. 1834, part ii. 3Iilne Ed- wards, Observations sur les Ascidies Compose'es, qui se trouvent aux Cote's de la Manche. Mem. Acad, des Sciences, t. xviii. Milne Edwards, Sur la Circula- tion du Sang chez les Pyrosomes. Comptes Rendus de l'Aead. des Sciences, t. x. 1840, p. 284.; Sur la Circulation et sur l'Existence d'un Systemes Ner • veux chez les Salpes. Ibid. p. 408. Annales des Sc. Nat. 2de series, t. xiii. Mdne Edwards, Recherches Zoolog. faites pendant un Voyage eu Sicile. Comptes Kendus, 1844, t. xix. p. 1137. Milne Edwards et Audouin, Re'sume des Recherches faites aux lies Chaussey. Ann. Sc. Nat. t. xv. Gervais, Suppl. Diet. Sc. Nat. lme vol. art. Asci- dies. Coste, Recherches sur l'Appareil respira- toire des Ascidiens. Comptes Rendus, 1842, t. xiv. Broderip and Sowerby, Observations on New Mol- lusca, &c. (Chelyosoma) Zoolog. Journal, vol. v. Johnson, Mag. Nat. Hist. 1834 (Aplidium). Penny Cyelopa-dia, articles Salpacea and Tuxicata. Van Beneden, Recherches sur 1' Embryoge'nie, l'Ana- tomie, et la Physiologie des Ascidies Simples. Memoires de l'Acade'mie Royal de Belgique, t. xx. 1847. Forbes (E ), Forbes and Hanley's History of British Mollusca, 8vo. London, parts i" and ii. 1848. (T. Rupert Jones.)