WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). 1521 penetrate the other, even to the extent of half an inch. We agree with Velpeau, Smith, &c., in thinking that in this injury, Colics' fracture, there is scarcely any diminution of the trans- verse diameter of the forearm. The cylin- droidal form which the arm acquires being owing partly to an effusion among the flexor tendons, but principally to the increase of the antero-posterior diameter of the forearm at the seat of the fracture, consequent on the back- ward displacement of the lower fragment. I have never seen the case, spoken of by many, of transverse fracture of the radius, with displacement forwards of the hand and lower fragment, which accident is said to be pro- duced by a fall on the back of the hand. Fracture of the lower extremity of the Ulna. — A fracture of the lower extremity of the ulna is rather a rare accident, because, per- haps, of the great elasticity of this long and slender bone, and the mobility of its lower end, by which it, as it were, eludes the force which might otherwise cause its fracture. In- deed the ulna, it will be recollected, is not directly connected with the hand as the radius, the " manubrium manus," is: and hence, when a patient falls on the palm of the hand, the whole force of the weight and im- pulse are sustained by the radius; but if this last bone gives way, and a transverse fracture occurs, with displacement backwards of the hand and lower fragment, then, as a secondary consequence, a fracture of the ulna, near the wrist-joint, may follow. In the vast majority of cases, however, of fracture of the radius close to the wrist, which occur, for example, in Codes' fracture, the ulna remains unbroken. Fracture of the lower extremity of the ulna may also be the effect of direct violence. When the ulna is broken alone, without being accompanied by any simultaneous frac- ture of the radius, it may be recognised by the pain felt by the patient when direct pressure is made on the broken part of the ulna, and by the difficulty he experiences whenever he attempts to pronate or supinate the forearm. When the surgeon takes hold of the lower fragment of the ulna, and moves it backwards and forwards, crepitation can be felt. Fracture of the lower extremity of the ulna is an accident which requires much attention from the surgeon, as sometimes, if the sepa- rated fragment be small, as, for example, con- sisting merely of the styloid process of the ulna, no union may occur, and permanent weakness of the wrist-joint may follow. Disjunction of the lower .Epiphysis of the Radius. — This must be considered rather a rare accident ; it is, however, occasionally to be met with; and the history of the art of surgery furnishes us with well-marked ex- amples of it, as the three following cases sufficiently prove: — Case 1. — "I have," says Cloquet, " ob- served one case of the disjunction of the lower epiphysis of the radius, in a young lad twelve years of age, who fell from a consi- derable height from a tree to the ground. VOL. IV. Besides the injury done to the radius, he received, at the time of the fall, a wound of the head which in three days proved fatal to him." Dissection. — The epiphysis of the right radius was entirely separated, and a great quantity of blood was effused in the deeper palmar region, behind the tendons of the deep flexor muscles of the fingers (Diction, de Medecine, 1824). Case 2. — Rognetta has adduced a similar case of a lad at fifteen years (Gazette Medi- cate, 1834-.). Case 3.— In December 15th, 1838, the writer laid a case before the Pathological Society of Dublin, which was a true speci- men of a disjunction of the lower epiphysis of the radius. The patient, having been above eighteen years of age, had attained to a more mature time of life than any other example of this special injury affecting the wrist hitherto recorded ; a representation of the external appearance which the lower part of the fore- arm and carpus presented in this case have been preserved by a plaster cast; and after the death of the patient, the actual condition of the parts having been ascertained anato- mically, these circumstances, in the writer's opinion, make this case valuable. A. R., let. eighteen, a mason, fell from a scaf- fold which was attached to the front of a lofty house at its third story. By the fall he re- ceived a severe injury of the head, which rendered him immediately insensible, and in this condition was admitted into the Richmond Hospital. Besides the injury of the head, we noticed in this case a remarkable lesion ; the right wrist had suffered a derangement, accom- panied with a deformity that at first sight we might suppose would be produced by a dislo- cation of the carpus and hand backwards on the dorsum of the forearm (Jig. 93 f.). The plane of the hand and carpus were placed fully three quarters of an inch behind the plane of the rest of the forearm ; and from the external appearances there seemed no doubt but that there was an abrupt transverse solution of continuity of the forearm, close to the wrist- joint, which equally affected both radius and ulna. On viewing the limb laterally, the peculiar curve which Velpeau compared to the back of a silver dinner fork, was exaggerated beyond what we noticed in the ordinary fracture of the radius in this situation; and the tendons of the extensors, particularly those of the extensor carpi, were thrown remarkably into relief. The anterior, or palmar surface of the fore- arm presented a longer and more uniform curve than the posterior ; the depth of the antero-posterior diameter of the wrist in the seat of injury was much increased : so that this and the bilateral measurement seemed equal. Thus the accident presented many of the appearances of the dislocation, backwards, of the hand and carpus; but the longitudinal measurement, taken from the highest part of 5 E