THYMUS GLAND. 1101 cation of a former opinion, that of Cowper and Haller, who regarded the thymus as belonging to the class of conglobate glands. It appears on the whole more consistent with the various facts bearing on the subject which are in our possession, and yet it is by no means proved, and is open to some objections. In the first place, one is inclined to look sus- piciously on any hypothesis, which assigns the production of a material almost universally diffused throughout the body to any separate organ, it seems far more truth-like to regard the manufacture of the plastic element (fibrine), as taking place in the blood itself by the agency of the white corpuscles, as Drs. Addison, Williams, and Carpenter, have well nigh demonstrated to be the case. If their view be correct, it becomes still more impro- bable that the thymic nuclei should be the producers of fibrine, seeing that they are al- together dissimilar in appearance and struc- ture from the white granular corpuscles. Moreover the early disappearance of the thymus in birds, long before the demand for plastic material can have materially dimi- nished, makes it unlikely that in them its function is the elaboration of fibrine. The same observation applies to mammalia though in a less degree; and, generally, I think there can be little doubt that the self-forming, self- sustaining blood, while supplied with an ade- quate quantity of proper nourishment, is fully capable of evolving within itself all that is requisite for the nutrition of any part of the system. It seems almost unwise to broach any further speculations respecting this ignotum quid, especially after stating objections to the views of others ; and yet while ideas are of- fered as mere suggestions, to serve if they may as aids to the discovery of truth, they are not without utility, since none can say without trial which of these " scintilla;" may kindle the light of truth. From the careful investigations which have been made respecting the age at which the gland attains its highest develop- ment, and the conditions which chiefly affect its size and repletion, it certainly appears to be a very exact exponent of the state of the nu- trient processes generally,—a delicate barome- ter of nutrition, as Mr. Simon terms it. More- over its anatomical constitution, as 1 have insisted, seems to show that it does not truly secrete, i. e. elaborate and separate some pe- culiar principle from the blood, but that it is a congeries of (nuclear) particles, which can only be regarded as solidified liquor sanguinis, and not in anywise as a true secretion, espe- cially when we remember that in every such fluid the nuclei of the producing cells sooner or later disappear. Chemical analysis, as we have seen, confirms this position ; the formula expressing the nature of the contents of the thymic cavities being identical with that of proteine. Now if one of the organs which belong to the class of ductless glands have for its func- tion to act as a living attractive recipient or reservoir for the blood cn masse, may not an- other fulfil its destined purpose by serving as a reservoir for that part of the blood which ministers to nutrition, perhaps for the plastic element of the liquor sanguinis in particular? When such plastic material is in superabund- ance in the circulating current, a quantity of it passes off, and solidifying in the thymic cavities, assumes that most universal of all organized forms, the form of nuclei.* When there is again a demand for such material, the solidified particles would again liquefy, and re-enter the impoverished blood. It is not difficult to understand that such a func- tion may be most necessary during the pe- riod when growth is most active, the sup- plies of nourishment most frequent, and the waste of the tissues most rapid, but that as the several nutrient processes, both of the assimilative and destructive kind, attain to more steadiness and equilibrium, diminishing somewhat in their intensity and rapidity, but increasing in real strength, firmness, stability, and perfection (one is obliged to use somewhat metaphorical language), it may no longer be requisite, and the organ will therefore undergo a gradual atrophy. This hypothesis, which is really little else than an expression of the facts above noticed, has been principally suggested by the con- sideration of the nature of the secretion (so called) of the thymus, wherein it differs ab- solutely from all other glands, in as much as the nuclei constantly remain in their primitive state, and are not even mingled with granular matter ; while it agrees in this respect with another organ of similar kind, the spleen, whose parenchyma consists of similar bare nuclei, which exert so far as we know no real secretory action. It is however by no means improbable, that, even if this guess at the use of the thymus be correct, we are yet very far from being fully acquainted with all the rea- sons why it exists, and why in such a situa- tion, and under such a form. If Mr. Goodsir's account of its origin, from a portion of the blastoderma, with the suprarenal capsules and thyroid, be correct, it is possible that its formation may be demanded by some recon- dite law of development, in virtue of which the extraction of one organ out of the pri- mitive blastema necessitates, by a kind of compensating action, that another should arise in some sense complementary to it. This idea, originally stated by Treviranus, has been developed very ably and pleasingly by Pro- fessor Paget, to whose lectures 1 refer for a full exposition of it. Morbid Anatomy. — Not much is known, and probably there is not much to be known, respecting the morbid conditions of the * I would liere direct attentionto the remarkable fact, that in all glandular, and in fact hi almost all, organs, the nuclei are almost precisely similar in size and appearance, and do not differ from each other in different parts more than individual ones do in the same. Does not this indicate strongly a tendency of liquor sanguinis effused in conditions of healthy nutrition, to assume the form of nuclei, irre- spective of the situation or special endowment of the part where it is effused ?