VENOUS SYSTEM. 1413 correspond in their distribution to those of the artery of the same name, and communicate freely with the lower lumbar and sacral veins. (b) The middle sacrnl vein. — A single trunk placed on the sacrum in the middle line, w hich communicates inferiorly with the vesi- cal and hemorrhoidal plexuses, and on each side with the adjacent lateral sacral veins. It usually opens into the left common iliac vein, but sometimes terminates more symmetrically, by bifurcating and giving a branch to either common iliac vein. (c) The lateral sacral veins,—These ana- stomose very freely with the middle sacral and gluteal veins, and with veins in the sacral canal, before terminating in the common iliac veins. Inferior vena cava. — (Vena cava ascen- dens.) This vein, the largest in the bod}', since it returns to the heart all the blood which is circulated below the diaphragm, is formed by the junction of the common iliac veins, just as the superior cava is constituted by that of the vena; innominatae. The abdominal vena cava passes upwards in front of the lumbar vertebra;, behind the liver and on the right side of the aorta. At first the inferior vena cava and the aorta are in close contact; but as they ascend, the vein inclines forwards and to the right side, so that in the vicinity of the dia- phragm these great blood-vessels become more and more remotely related to each other, and finally, the thoracic duct, the vena azygos, the right splanchnic and sympathetic nerves, the right cms of the diaphragm and the Spigelian lube of the liver intervene between them. The anterior relations of the inferior vena cava are the following : the peritoneum, the mesentery, the inferior portion of the duodenum, the pancreas, the commencement of the vena portce, and the liver, w hich latter sometimes iorms a complete canal for the cava. Pos- teriorly, the inferior cava corresponds to the vertebras, to the psoas muscle, and to the right renal and right lumbar arteries : exter- nally, it is related to the right kidney. The inferior vena cava is not uniform in its dimensions, for it presents two remarkable di Ufa t ions in its course, the first where it is joined by the emulgent veins, and the second, opposite to its junction with the venae cave hepaticae. Having passed behind, or through, the liver, the vena cava is transmitted through the " foramen quadratum " of the diaphragm, and at the same time penetrates the fibrous layer of the pericardium, which is here intimately connected with the cordiform tendon of the diaphragm. Above the diaphragm the vena cava bends abruptly to the left, and, after a very short, and almost transverse course within the pericardium, during which it is in- vested on its anterior surface by the serous membrane, terminates by entering the most posterior and inferior portion of the right auricle; the axis of its opening is directed upwards, backwards, and to the left side. There are no valves in this vessel. Collateral branches. — Besides the common iliac veins, which are its formative roots, the inferior vena cava receives the following, viz., the renal, spermatic, (ovarian in the female), supra renal, lumbar, inferior phrenic, and hepatic veins. (a) The renal veins are of great size, and pass transversely to join the cava ; the left is the longest; it passes in front of the aorta to arrive at its destination, and is joined by the left spermatic, vein. Both renal veins arise in the cortical sub- stance of the kidneys by small radicles, which unite into larger vessels : these pass between the " pyramids," and so gain the hilus, where they lie in front of their accompanying arteries. (6) The suprarenal, or capsular veins, are more numerous than the arteries of the same name; there are usually three veins on each side, and but one artery. The veins are the superior, which joins the inferior phrenic, a middle, which unites directly with the vena cava, and an inferior, which opens into the renal vein of its own side. (c) The spermatic veins originate in the testis, and pass through the mediastinum testis. On entering the cord they receive veins from the epididymis, and assume a loose plexiform arrangement (plexus pampinifor mis). The spermatic veins, now four or five in num- ber, pass along the cord, and traverse the in- guinal channel with the vas deferens and spermatic arteries. At the internal abdomi- nal ring the spermatic veins leave the vas deferens and accompany their corresponding arteries, lying behind the peritoneum and in front of the psoas muscle. Continuing to ascend, these veins cross the ureters external to the common iliac arteries, approximate to one another, and finally terminate, that of the right side in the vena cava, and that of the left side in the left renal vein. In the abdomen there is either one sper- matic vein, on each side, or two veins which freely communicate by short transverse branches, and unite in one common trunk before terminating. In the female these vessels are represented by the Ovarian veins, which form a plexus between the layers of the broad ligament, and ter- minate in the same manner as the spermatic veins in the male. ((/) Lumbar veins (lumbo-vertcbral veins). — There are four or five pairs of lumbar veins which are in every respect analogous to the lumbar arteries from the aorta: they arise by muscular branches in the lumbar region, and in the parieties of the abdomen, where they are connected with the epigastric veins, and on both sides pass behind the psoas muscles to open into the cava close to one another: the veins of the left side cross the spine be- hind the aorta. The lumbar veins commu- nicate very freely with the venous system of the spinal canal, with the ilio lumbar veins below, and with the commencement of the azygos veins superiorly. (e) The inferior phrenic veins are derivcj 4x3