1068 THORAX. The temperature of the respired air is not mentioned.* Goodwyn states it at 200 cubic indiesf; Kite, at 300 cubic inches^.; Menzies at 200$; Bostock[|, corroborated by Dun- glison^T, omitting the complemental volume, at210cubic inches; lastly, Thackral, who takes this volume as the measure of health ; ex- amines some soldiers, who give the mean of 217 cubic inches, and some shoemakers, who average 182 cubic inches ; and he re- marks, " a tall young cornet threw out 295 cubic inches ; this was the greatest quantity 1 ever witnessed."** According to this evidence, the respective volumes are, — Residual Reserve Breathing Complemental Vital Capacity volume, from 40 77 3 119 100 Cub. in. to 260 „ 170 „ 100 „ 200 „ 300 The apparent discrepancies of the breathing volumes are entirely due to the want of col- lateral observations; for there is no distinction between the sexes, nor age, nor stature, nor weight. We have determined the vital capa- city in one man as 80 cubic inches, in another 464 cubic inches ; therefore we might say this volume varies from 80 to 460 cubic inches ; but this discrepancy is cleared up, when we add that the height of the former was 3 feet 9 inches, and his weight 4 stone 9 lbs., while the latter measured 7 feet, with a weight of 22 stone ; and that if we arithmetically reduce the one to the other, the vital capa- city of a dwarf is within half an inch of what it actually was, viz. 79-56 cubic inches by cal- culation, and 80 cubic inches by direct expe- riment. Collateral observations clem- up the experiment; thus Kite was probably a tall man, and therefore he states the vital capacity as 300 cubic inches; Davy at 213 cubic inches, because he was of shorter stature, probably about 5 feet 7 inches; Hales, Jurin, and Goodwyn about 5 feet 8 inches. We come to this conclusion, because we find this vo- lume bear a strict relation to stature. There- fore, probably, all the observations already mentioned are correct, and only wanted an- other combination to remove the apparent discrepancies. We have especially directed our attention to one of these volumes of air, the vital capacity. Vital Capacity. — There are two ways of measuring the permeability of the lungs, or the volumes of air which they can displace, viz. by measuring the actual movement or mobility of the thoracic boundaries, or by directly measuring the absolute cubic inches of the volume of air expired. The former is open to an error, but the latter is not. * Thomson's Anim. Chem., 1843, p. 610. et seq. t Op. Cit. p. 32. note. % Op. Cit. p. 48. § Mayo's Outlines of Phys., p. 76. II Op. Cit. p. 321, % Ibid. vol. ii. p. 91. . ** Thackral on the Effects of Arts', Trades, &c. upon Health, p. 21. et seq. If we take the movement as an index to the permeability of the lungs, we obtain an evidence only of movement, and not of the permeability of the lungs for air, for we may move the thoracic boundaries, and yet not breathe. But when we measure the volume of air, it is self-evident that this must be the measure of both the permeability of the lungs and of mobility of the thoracic bound- aries, because we cannot breathe without moving. The classes of persons we examined were as follow : — No. Sailors (Merchant Service) Fire Brigade of London Metropolitan Police Thames Police Paupers - - - - Mixed Class (Artisans) First Battalion Grenadier Guards Royal Horse Guards (Blue) Chatham Recruits Woolwich Marines Pugilists and Wrestlers Giants and Dwarfs Printers -f P' essinen 30 1 \ Compositors 43 J Draymen - - - - Girls - - - Gentlemen - Diseased Cases - Total - 2430 Each individual was subjected to the fol- lowing observations : — 1st. The number of cubic inches given by the deepest expiration, following the deepest inspiration. This was taken three times, and the highest observation was noticed. 2nd. The inspirator!/ power. 3rd. The expiratory power. 4th. Circumference of the chest over the nipples. 5th. Mobility of the chest with a tape- measure. 6th. The height. 7th. The weight. 8th. The pulse (sitting). 9th. The number of ordinary respirations per minute (sitting). 10th. The age 11th. Temperature of the air expired. To determine these points, we constructed an air receiver, denominated " Spirometer." We used a bent tube (haemadynamometer) for ascertaining the respiratory power, scales and stand for the height and weight, and a com- mon tape-measure for measuring the mobility of the chest. We rarely exceeded three consecutive ob- servations with the spirometer, because after this the volume of respired air diminishes from mere fatigue. , To measure the vital capacity volume. — The Spirometer (Jig. 704. ), consists of a vessel containing water, out of which a re- ceiver is raised by breathing into it through a