981 TESTICLE (NORMAL ANATOMY). 3 R 3 from the contracted part of the canal of the epididymis at an acute angle, it ascends along the inner side of this body, from which it is separated by areolar tissue and the spermatic arteries and veins. A right or left testicle may thus always be distinguished by the circum- stance that when the testicle is in position, the vas deferens is situated on the inner or mesial side of the organ. In this part of its course, for the distance of about an inch and a half, or more, the vas deferens forms numer- ous convolutions, (Jig*- 632., and 633, i), which gradually cease as the duct mounts above the testicle. The inflected part of the vas deferens, when unravelled, was found by Lauth to measure six inches and a half. It afterwards takes a direct course (Jc) up the spermatic cord to the inguinal canal, passing behind and at a short distance from the spermatic arteries and veins. On entering the abdomen at the internal ring, it quits the spermatic vessels and descends into the pelvis, passing at first by the side of, and afterwards behind and below the bladder, on the inner side of the corresponding vesicula seminalis, the excretory duct of which it joins at an acute angle, to form the ejaculatory canal. The canal of the vas deferens is extremely fine, and its walls are nearly uniform in thick- ness until it reaches the vesicula seminalis. It is lined by a fine membrane of a mucous character, which is continuous with the urethra. This membrane forms longitudinal folds. The vas deferens is round and in- durated,— harder than any other excretory duct in the body, by which character it is easily distinguished, when handled, from the other parts constituting the spermatic cord. Many anatomists have entertained the opinion that the parietes of this duct are muscular. It is distinctly so in the bear, bull, and other animals. On careful examination, however, of sections of the human vas deferens with the microscope, I could discover nothing more than simple fibrous tissue. Huschke makes three layers of fibres ; two longitudinal, and one circular, situated between them ; the latter being the thickest. The duct has an external investment of condensed areolar tissue. IV. The Vessels and Nerves. — Spermatic Vessels. ■— The spermatic arteries, the chief vessels supplying the testicles, arise in pairs, at a very acute angle, from the fore-part of the aorta, immediately below the renal ar- teries. Their origin is subject to consider- able varieties. The two seldom arise at the same level, and the right is often a branch of the right renal artery. Sometimes one or both come off from the superior mesenteric. Occasionally there are two spermatic arteries on one or both sides, arising in the regular way. All these deviations are more frequently met with on the left than on the right side of the body. Each artery pursues a tortuous course downwards and outwards, passing behind the peritoneum obliquely across the psoas muscle and ureter, to which, as well as to the surrounding areolar tissue, it gives off several branches. The artery then enters the inguinal canal through the internal ring, and emerging at the external, passes down the cord, being surrounded in its course by the spermatic veins. The further distribution of the artery is thus correctly described by Sir A. Cooper : " When the artery reaches from one to three inches from the epididymis, varying in different subjects, it divides into two branches, which descend to the testicle on its inner side, opposite to that on which the epididymis is placed; one passing on the anterior and upper, the other to the posterior and lower part of the testis. From the anterior branch the vessels of the epididymis arise: first, one which passes to its caput; secondly, another to its body, and, thirdly, one to its cauda and the first convolutions of the vas deferens, communicating freely with the de- ferential artery. The spermatic artery, after giving off branches to the epididj mis, enters the testis, by penetrating the outer layer of the tunica albuginea ; and dividing upon its vascular layer, they form an arch by their junction at the lower part of the testis, from which numerous vessels pass upwards ; and then descending, they supply the lubes of the tubuli seminiferi. Besides this lower arch, there is another passing in the direction of the rete, extremely convoluted in its course, and forming an anastomosis between the prin- cipal branches.'' The testis receives a further supply of blood from anothe1' vessel, the ar- tery of the vas deferens, or posterior spermatic artery, which arises from one of the vesical arteries, branches of the internal iliac. This artery divides into two sets of branches, one set descending to the vesicula seminalis and to the termination of the vas deferens ; the other, ascending upon the vas deferens, runs in a serpentine direction upon the coat of that vessel, passing through the whole length of the spermatic cord ; and when it reaches the cauda epididymis, it divides into two sets of branches, one advancing to unite with the spermatic artery to supply the testis and epi- didymis, the other passing backwards to the tunica vaginalis and cremaster. The spermatic veins spring in three sets from the testicle, one from the rete and tubuli, and another from the vascular layer of the tunica albuginea, and a third from the lower extremity of the vas deferens. The veins of the testicle pass in three courses into the beginning of the spermatic cord ; two of these quit the back of the testicle, one at its anterior and upper part, and a second at its centre; and these, after passing from two or three inches, become united into one. The other column accompanies the vas deferens. There is also a large vein, just above the testicle, which crosses to join the three columns. The veins of the epididymis are one from the caput, another from its body ; one from its cauda, and another from its junction with the vas deferens, besides some small branches ; they terminate in the veins of the spermatic cord. The veins, after quitting the testicle, become extremely tortuous, and frequently