S190 VOICE. Epiglottis broad. L. 0375 in. Voice more acute than in woman. Mdes Europcea.—Thyroid: margins notched in front. Crieo-thyroid chink triangular. Ary- Fig. 900. Anterior view of the Larynx of Ursus Malayanus. a, tubercle; b, notch of thyroid cart.; e, notch of cricoid cart. Showing the Sesamoid Cart, d d, of Ursus Ma- layanus. tenoids small. Epiglottis triangular. Ven- tricles deep, leading to two sacs, one of which lies under the root of the tongue, the other between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages.* Mnstela Furo. See Wolff. Ventricles lead to sacs. Lutra Vulgaris. — Thyroid : superior and in- ferior margins parallel and inclined upwards, superior terminating in a round apex, in- ferior hollowed out in front b {fig. 901.), and protuberant; Cricoid, (c) inferior margin, so widely separated in front, as only to be slightly united at the inferior margin of the thyroid. * Cuvier was of opinion that the posterior part of the vocal ligaments produced the vocal sounds. Epiglottis, oval but not large. Cart, of San torini absent. Fig 901. a, Oblique view of the Larynx of Lutra Vulgaris, a, epiglottis; b, thyroid; c, c, cricoid. Canis familiaris. Thyroid : margins inclined upwards ; wings unite at an obtuse angle. Cornua: superior furnished with a transverse ligament running to the thyroid as in the hyaena. Cricoid : superior margin depressed in front. Arytenoids curved, and inclined from each other. Cart. Santorini and C. Cuneiform present. Ventricles deep. Epiglottis trian- gular, having a vertical furrow at its base. L. (and consequently the pitch of the voice) varies in almost every species; modulation expressive of emotion. Fe/is Leo.—Larynx : II. 3'14 in. Thyroid : margins parallel, and inclined forwards and upwards ; wings united at an obtuse angle; notch large below the pomum. Cricoid el- liptical, ridge of Galen prominent. Crico- thyroid : space large, rhomboidal, traversed in front by muscular fibres. Arytenoids rhom- boidal. Cart. Santorini absent. Vocal liga- ments : superior prominent. Ventricles deep, forming a sac between the vocal ligaments. Epiglottis : apex obtuse. Trachea 50 rings.* Voice grave, very intense ; roar terrific. F. Tigris. — H. 1-8 in. L. 1 in. The superior ligament very prominent. In other respects the larynx resembles that of the lion. Voice more acute than the lion. Purrs like the cat. F. Leopardus and Catus. — Larynges differ only in magnitude. The whole of the Feline order are remarkable for the prominence of the superior ligaments, by which the purring is most probably produced. c {Jig. 902.)f Voice a mewing, which is well known ; also a melancholy cry by night. * Vicq. D'Azyr and Cuvier state that the rings of the trachea are not entire. Perrault, on the con- trary, describes them to be complete circles; but this is an error. t Vicq. d'Azyr ascribed the purring of the cat to two thin membranes situated beneath the inferior ligaments; but we were unable to detect them: nor could Cuvier, Wolff, Casserius, and others, succeed in finding them.