1131 TONGUE. ing towards the centre, where the}' finally meet, and then the central part of the tongue is con- stituted in the same way as it is throughout the whole succeeding length of the organ, namely, by decussating vertical and transverse fibres ; but as yet no longitudinal fibres have appeared, and they are not seen till after the transverse area of the tongue has been entirely occupied by the vertical and hori- zontal fibres as above described. They first appear at the inferior surface, then at the sublateral and lateral regions ; next they are seen at the centre of the upper surface in a small definite cluster, from which they spread out, and so complete the circumference of the tongue. We see from this that the fibres that occupy the extreme point of the tongue are the transverse; that the next met with are the vertical; and that the longitudinal do not extend so far forward as either of the other two. This is what might be expected. The chief muscular, requisition at the extremity of the tongue is the power of pointing it : the shape of a tactile part is eminently subservient to its power of touch, because exact localisation, which is a most impor- tant element in touch (if it is not the very essence of it), depends on the smallness of the touching part. Now the extremity of the tongue, of its ordinary broad, flat shape when at rest, would be a very poor tactile instrument, and very far removed from a form that would capacitate it for the minute ap- preciation of distance and form. In what way, then, is the desired pointed shape of the tip of the tongue to be produced ? Manifestly by transverse contraction, for it is by the spread of the tongue in this direction that it departs from the pointed form ; and so we see the transverse fibres continued beyond either of the others, and occupying at the extreme tip the whole of the space assigned to the muscular structure. Furthermore, the longi- tudinal fibres are not necessary at the extreme point, either to flatten or shorten the tip, which is brought about by its own elasticity immediately on the cessation of the con- traction of the transverse fibres, or to move it in any direction, which is done rather by the movements of the parts coming immediately next the tip than of the tip itself. Thus, both negatively and positively, we see a reason for the continuation of the transverse fibres further forwards than either of the other two sets. The section last described completes what may be called the theoretical structure of the tongue (it is shown in fg. 748., in one half of its extent) : the next change is one of in- fraction of that completeness of muscular structure, occasioned by the entrance of the genioglossi muscles on the inferior surface, whereby the continuity of the cortical layer is isolated, there being no discs in the space occupied by the immergence of these two mus- cles. The subsequent changes in the appear- ance of successive sections, are just such as might be expected from the description al- ready given of such sections when viewed by the naked eye ; therefore, for the sake of brevity, I shall not here advert to them. A longitudinal vertical section, of course, displays a reversing of the position in which the discs and profile interlacement are re- spectively seen ; the discs are here in the central part instead of in the cortical, being the transverse fibres cut across ; the cortical layer is free from discs (except where, from the vertical and longitudinal fibres being ob- lique, they are obliquely cut), and is occupied by the longitudinal and vertical fibres, both seen in profile. A horizontal section displays very much the same appearance as the last: the discs are in the central part, and there is an absence of them in the circumferential portion; but in this case the discs are of the vertical fibres, in the other they were of the transverse. Superficial sections, or sections made ob- liquely, I shall not attempt to describe; by such means the appearances might be in- finitely varied, but their description would merely tend to confusion. From the above account it is seen that the microscopical investigation of the subject not only confirms and proves the conclusion ar- rived at by other means, but adds many new and interesting facts, and supplies us with one more instance of that contrivance and adapta- tion of means to end that meets us at every point. I have entered rather fully into the intrinsic muscular arrangements of the tongue, because there is no good account of the subject, that I can find, in the English language, nor of the appearances as seen by the microscope, in any language ; and I considered such an account a desideratum. Mode of termination of the intrinsic fibres. — All the intrinsic fibres of the tongue, and indeed, it may be said, almost if not quite all of the extrinsic too, terminate by becoming in- serted into the cutis — the sub-mucous fibrous tissue — which is extremely dense and thick, particularly on the upper surface. The trans- verse and vertical fibres pass direct to the cutis ; the longitudinal all ultimately have a similar insertion. In vertical sections the fibres may be seen passing up or down to the sur- face, and entering the cutis, which having pierced for a certain extent, they terminate : — some of them end just as they enter the fibrous tissue; some of them may be traced quite up to the papilla?. It might naturally be expected that the muscular fibres of the tongue would, from their isolation, present great facilities for see- ing the mode of the termination of muscle in fibrous tissue; and indeed this is the case in a remarkable degree; they seem to furnish the great desideratum of a natural isolation of the individual fibres, at the point where you are sure of seeing their union with the fibrous tissue that forms their means of attachment. As the opinions that 1 have come to from my own observations differ from those that are the result of some of the best researches on