TUNICATA. 1186 teries to veins and its veins to arteries. The heart consists of a slightly bent, contractile Ascidians, too, furnish the first examples of tube, and is situated near to or within the in- complete metamorphosis in the lower ranks of the animal kingdom. The honour of this discovery is due to MM. Audouin and Milne-Edwards. From the late discoveries of M. Sars, these metamorphoses increase in interest, and appear tobe still more remarkable. And, lastly, the Ascidians have contributed very considerably to our knowledge of the eir- testinal loop. The reproductive organs, con- sisting of ovary and testicle, are often lodged in the fold of the intestine. The animal of these "soft-shelled" Mol- luscs has very close affinities with that of the other Acephalans, especially the lamellibran- chiates. And " were the test of an Ascidian converted into a hard shell, symmetrically culatory apparatus of the Mollusca generally." divided into two plates, connected together The term Tunicata was first used by La- marck ; its synonyms are Tet/iya, Auct.; Soft- shelled Molluscs, Hunter ; les Aceplialcs sans eoquiUes, Cuvier; Aeephalophora heterobran- chiata, Blainville ; Tunicaries, Kirby ; Gymna- cephala, Bronn. The Class of animals to which it is applied may be zoologically de- fined as consisting of acephalous Molluscs ; with a soft shell or test, organised, coriaceous or gelatinous, frequently destitute of mineral constituents, having a large proportion of cellulose in its composition : animals single or aggregate; the test of each animal provided with two apertures, one bran- chial, the other anal ; the mantle forming an interior coat ; the branchiae attached dorsally by cartilage, and capable of separation so as to expose the mantle along a ventral mesial line, whilst the orifices protruded at one extremity, it would present the closest similarity with many bivalve Molluscs."* (Forbes.) All the Tunicata are free during the earlier periods of their existence ; some remain per- manently free, floating in the water (Salpa, &c), but the generality (Botryl/i, Ascidi<r,&e.) become fixed to shells, seaweeds, and other marine bodies. Some exist as distinct indivi- duals (Ascidia, Cynthia, &c), whilst various degrees of combination are affected by others (Botrylhis, Clavellina, Pyrosoma, &c.) ; and some are simple in one generation and com- wholly or in part to the internal surface of bined in the next (Sa/pa). the mantle ; the mouth, without labial ten- tacles, placed below the branchial apparatus ; animals hermaphrodite, undergoing metamor- phosis in their young state. The cavity, whether of single or compound Tunicates, is occupied by a more or less muscular sac, provided, like the external tunic, with two orifices. This sac, identical with the " mantle " of the Acephalans, is attached to the inner surface of the test, generally only at the orifices, and contains the viscera. The di- gestive, reproductive, and circulatory organs are disposed at the base of the sac, and its upper and larger portion, lined with, or traversed by, the branchiae, forms the branc hial cavity. This is placed at the commencement of the alimen- tary canal, of which it forms as it were the antechamber. The branchiae have generally the form of ridges, more or less complicated, and seldom symmetrical. The alimentary canal is simple, and barely distinguishable into gullet, stomach, and intestine. It is always convoluted or folded once on itself. The liver adheres to the stomach, and in many species is divided into distinct lobes. The From the above-mentioned various con- ditions of individualism or aggregation under which these animals exist, the family is divisible into two groups — the simple and the aggregate. Such forms of the latter group as were known to the earlier natu- ralists were, from a general similarity of appearance, classed by them with Alcyonia. In the former group have been placed, until a late date, the numerous species of the Sal- pidce, which now however, like the above- mentioned groups, have been separately treated of and illustrated in memoirs and monographs devoted to them. Indeed, although the ex- pressions, simple and aggregate, as will be seen hereafter, are very convenient in describing the physiology of the Tunicata, yet late re- searches have shown that the conditions to which they refer have but a subordinate value in reference to the natural grouping of the class. As may naturally be inferred from what is stated above, the Tunicata have been sub- divided in various manners. The arrangement we are inclined to adopt is as follows : — Tunicata < Dichitonida, Fleming. Inner sac more or less detached from the external tunic; united to it at the two ori- r. x> i • i i conioined fices. Branchiae, large, equal, ^t-., J T1 , • , , , ., . ' ° c J-'rloating. Branchial and spread on the inner surface of this sac. Branchial orifice with an inner membranaceous ring and circle of tentacles. J , . . , t„ f Branchial i Monochitonida, Iteming. Inner sac adhering throughout to the external tunic. Orifices without tentacular fringes. Fixed. Branchial and anal" orifices not opposite to each other. Branchiae anal orifices opposite to each other. Branchiae disjoined. Ascidiada?. Clavellinidas. Botryllidae. Pyrosomicke. al and anal orifices 1 0 , . , .. . ... !• Salpulre. opposite to each other. J 1 Branchial and anal orifices" not opposite to each J- Pclonaiadaj. other. * We may particularly mention the Myce, Pholades, Sec.