URETHRA. 1253 4 l 3 nise them. In their natural condition they are rounded, or nearly so, and equal in size to an ordinary pea. Solid and resisting to the feel, they are of a palish red colour, and dis- tinctly conglomerated, or composed of small lobules. The lobules of the glands are con- nected together by cellular membrane, and by their efferent ducts. The glands are sur- rounded by a strong capsule of fibrous mem- brane. On section they present an appear- ance like the pancreas, and are composed in- ternally of elongated cellular follicles, which, according to Krause, vary from the 50th to the 25th of a line in length, and are about the 36th of a line in breadth. Some of these follicles equal in size a 16th or 25th of a line. They unite into slender ducts of about the 18th or ]6th of a line in diameter; these usually coalesce into a single excretory duct. The excretory duct of each gland is occa- sionally double : the ducts run parallel for the distance of half an inch beneath the mucous membrane of the bulb, and approaching each other, they pierce the urethra by two exceed- ingly minute orifices, which are scarcely distin- guishable : the best mode of demonstrating the openings of the ducts is gently to press the mucous membrane forwards with the handle of a scalpel, when a small quantity of secretion contained in them will escape, and indicate their termination on the mucous membrane. Each gland receives a branch from the artery of the bulb, and its veins terminate in the pudic vein. It is impossible to collect any quantity of the secretion of Cowper's glands sufficient for chemical analysis. According to Krause, the fluid is somewhat similar to that secreted by the prostate ; it is of a viscid character, transparent, containing flocculi and small granulations, probably the detritus of epithe- lial cells, varying in size from the 900th to the 370th of a line, the greater number being about the 455th of a line. Comparative anatomy. — As there is so little of a satisfactory nature known about the use of Cowper's glands in man, it may not be un- interesting to examine their condition in the animal kingdom generally. To elucidate this part of the subject, I select the following observations from the Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee of Cuvier. According to Cuvier, Cowper's glands exist in all the Quadrumana and Cheiroptera, and amongst the Ferce they are found in the ichneu- mon, in the civet, hyena, cats ; in the Rodentia, except the hare ; also in the Pachydermata, most of the Ruminants, and all the Marsupiata, They are absent in the Insectivora, the hears, the racoon, otter, and marten, and in the dog. Amongst the Ruminants, they are wanting in the deer; they are absent in the Solipeds, Fhoci, the amphibious Quadriremes, and the Cetacca. It will be found that they often co- exist with the prostate and vesiculae semi- nales, or with these and the vesiculae acces- sorial, or with the prostate alone. In the flesh-eating opossum, they are the only accessory glands, and they appear essen- tial to this division of the Marsupiata. In structure they vary considerably, but may all be arranged under one or two heads. Thus like the prostate, in some animals, there is a large reservoir in the centre of each gland, from which the excretory duct arises ; whilst in others the gland is composed of a number of minute follicles, all terminating in one common excretory duct. In the squirrels and marmots they are large and vesicular, and were mistaken for vesiculae seminales. The fluid which they contain is semi-transparent, or of a bluish, opaline ap- pearance, of the consistence of starch, and it is poured into the bulbous portion of the urethra by a single orifice. They are com- pletely surrounded by a muscular or musculo- membranous envelope. In the ape tribe they are proportionally much larger than in man. In the mantis they are remarkable in size. Their excretory ducts run close together prior to their termination. In the bat, amongst the Cheiroptera, they are very large. In the dismar of Russia they are elongated, and bent in the form of the knee. In the hedgehog they are broad and round composed of a number of straight, short tubes, lying parallel, and dividing into a num- ber of exceedingly small ramuscules. The tubes unite into a single canal, which opens into the pelvic portion of the urethra. In the civet and cat they are large, and enveloped in a thick muscular layer ; but, amongst the Carnivora, they are largest in the hyaena; the lobes and branches of their secreting tubes are exceedingly distinct and large. The anti-prostate glands of the ichneu- mon form a remarkable swelling at the com- mencement of the bulb; they are rounded, and composed of ves^cules communicating together ; these unite into a single canal in each gland, which passes beneath the penis, and opens separately into a cul-de-sac, into which the urethra opens. They are sur- rounded by an aponeurotic and muscular layer. There is a similar structure in the marmot; they are shaped like a club, the broad end folded upwards against the handle, which contains the duct ; the mass is divided into a number of glandular cells. The excretory duct opens into a cul-de-sac, hollo wed out in the bulb: this con- tracts into a narrow canal, which opens into the urethra, near the middle of the penis. In the rat they are of large size, whitish externally, and pyriform in shape. In the agouti they are broad, rounded, and very vascular. In the guinea-pig they are more rounded, but of the same structure. They are spherical, and situated behind the acceleratores arising in the gerboa de Mauritanie, and pyramidal in the gerboa de Schaw. They are broad and rounded in the