1171 TOUCH. 4 F 2 physical qualities, concerning which we re- ceive information through the sense of touch. Sense of Temperature. — This sense is called into action when there is a difference between the temperature of the sensory organ and that of the surrounding medium, or of substances with which it is specially brought into contact. It is one of which the intensity is determined, more perhaps than that of any other sensation, rather by the relative than by the absolute condition of the body which excites it. Thus, if one hand be immersed for a time in hot water, and the other in cold, and both then be plunged into tepid water, this will seem cool to the former and warm to the latter. So, again, a person coining out of cold air into an atmosphere of moderate tem- perature, derives from it the feeling of genial warmth, whilst another, coming into the very same atmosphere from one much hotter, com- plains of its chillness. Again, when the tem- perature of different substances is compared by the hand, the sense is not so much influ- enced by the absolute amount of caloric possessed by each, as by their power of imparting cold or heat to the sensory organ. Hence substances which are good conductors (such as metals or marble) are felt to be colder than those which conduct heat badly (such as wood), although really of the same temperature, because they draw off the heat of the sensory surface more rapidly ; whilst, on the other hand, if both be warmer than the sensory surface, the best conductors will seem to be the hottest, because their caloric is most readily imparted. Further, the sense of temperature is influenced in a remarkable degree by the extent of surface on which the impression is made. Every one is familiar with the fact that hot water in which a single finger may be held without inconvenience, will be felt intolerably scalding when the whole hand is immersed in it. And it has been shown by Professor Weber, that if one vessel of water be heated to 98° and another to 104°, and the whole of the hand be im- mersed in the former, while the finger alone is immersed in the latter, a wrong judgment of their relative temperatures will be probably given, that which is really the cooler being pronounced the hotter, on account of the larger extent of surface on which it acts. This mistake was made in some of his experi- ments, when the difference was as much as eight degrees ; the cooler water being at 98°, and the hotter at 106°, and yet the former being esteemed the hotter. So, again, the immersion of the entire hand enables minute differences of temperature to be detected, which could not be recognised by the immer- sion of a single finger. By the former method, a difference of only one-third of a degree may be distinguished; the entire hand being im- mersed, repeatedly and successively, in two vessels of water, differing only that much in their relative warmth. But it is remarked by Professor Weber, that these minute differ- ences are best detected when the medium examined does not fall short of, or exceed very considerably, the usual temperature of the body ; just as the car can best perceive a difference of tone in sounds which are neither very acute or very grave.* It is a remarkable fact, discovered by Pro- fessor Weber, that the left hand is in most persons more sensible to variations of tem- perature than the right. Thus, when the hands of a person lying in bed, and having exactly the same temperature, are plunged each in a separate vessel of hot water, the left hand is believed to be in the hotter medium, although the water in which it is immersed is really one or two degrees colder than the other. This difference is the more remarkable, as the power of tactile discrimina- tion is usually greater in the right hand ; and it is attributed by Professor Weber to a difference in the thickness of the epidermis, the left hand usually having a thinner epi- dermis than the right, especially in the palm, because it is less used. But this will only apply to the hand; and since (as will be presently shown) we possess a greater power of discriminating pressures through the entire surface of the left side than through that of the right, it would seem much more pro- bable that there is an original difference in the tactile endowments of the two sides respectively. There is certainly a strongly marked difference between different parts of the trunk in regard to their sensibility to tem- perature, as is experienced by those who sponge themselves over with cold water im- mediately on leaving their bed in the morning. In the writer's case, the parts most sensitive to the cold are in the centre of the dorsal region behind; in front, between the lower end of the sternum and the umbilicus ; and the corresponding portions of the flanks. These spots are among the parts of the in- tegument least possessed of tactile discrimi- nation ; and yet the cold sponge passing over them seems to be much lower in temperature than when it is applied to other parts. Some further experiments have recently been made by Professor Weber, to determine whether the sense of temperature is received through any other channel than the sensory apparatus contained in the integuments.+ The first means of which he availed himself for deciding this question, was that afforded by the results of accident or surgical operations, in which a portion of skin has been left defi- cient. Thus, in three cases in which a large portion of the skin had been destroyed by a burn, and in which healing had not advanced so far as to renew the organ of touch, it was found that no correct discrimination could be made between two spatulas, one of them at a temperature of from 48° to 54°, the other of from 113° to 122°, which were brought into * He further remarks, that the comparison be- tween two temperatures can be best made when the impressions are not simultaneously made upon two different parts, but are made in quick succession upon the same part; as mentioned hereafter to be the case in regard to weights. t Miiller's Archiv. 1849. Heft, iv. s. 273—283.