VOICE. 1496 teriorly by the thyroid, laterally by the ary- tenoids, and posteriorly by the cricoid carti- lage, but is destitute of salient membranous laminae. * Muscles. — The superior larynx is raised by the hyo-thyroideus and the thyro-tra- chealis muscles, and depressed by the hypsilo and sterno-trachealis. The glottis is opened by the thyro-arytenoideus posticus, and closed by the thyro-arytenoideus lateralis, as in the higher order of reptiles. The superior larynx is supplied by the superior laryngeal nerve alone, the inferior laryngeal terminating in the inferior larynx and trachea. The inferior larynx. — This organ is pecu- liar to birds. It is exceedingly diversified in form and structure. It is always found except in the condor, and other vultures. If we make a section of the lower larynx of birds in the mesial plane, its lateral segments, if viewed separately, present a double organ of sound ; the exceptions to this rule are, the parrot, perroquet, and cockatoo. The inferior larynx of birds is often a very complex structure, and may be considered a double reed furnished with a pipe. It is symmetrical in most orders of birds except the Palmipedes, and is situated between the last ring of the trachea and first of the bronchi; it lies upon the oesophagus pos- teriorly, where there is generally a triangular space for the passage of that tube. The frame-work of the inferior larynx is formed by the developement of several lower rings of the trachea, which take diversified forms in different orders of birds, and some- times in the sub-genera of the same order, as in Mergus and Anas among the Palmipedes. In those birds which have a pure quality of voice, and whose instinct excites them to pro- duce a continuous succession of tones, con- stituting some defined melody, we find the * Although anatomists are generally agreed respect- ing t he position and figure of the several pieces which enter into the formation of the superior larynx of birds, they differ widely in reference to the parts which they represent when compared with man. Cuvier conceives that the posterior cartilage, which Humboldt1 calls sockel, represents the cricoid of Mammalia, and that birds are destitute of epiglottis, thyroid, and arytenoid cartilages. Fabricius2 con- siders it best to divide the pieces into three parts, viz. two arytenoids and an os-innominatum. Tiede- 111,111113 thinks the anterior piece represents the thyroid, the quadrangular pieces the cricoid, and the triangular the arytenoid cartilages of Mamma- lia. Meckel4, on the contrary, considers the trian- gular pieces to be the cricoid divided. Carus5 supposes the quadrangular pieces to be arytenoids, and the triangular the cartilages of Santorini. Wagner6 unites the single with the quadrilateral pieces for a cricoid, and the triangular for the arytenoids. 1 Observations de Zoologie. 2 De Larynge. P. i. cap. vii. In op. omnia. Lips. 1687, p. 273. 3 Zoologie, b. ii. p. 644. 4 Archiv. ftir Anat. und Physiol. 1832, p. 324. 5 Lehrbuch der Vergleichenden Zootomie, b. i. p. 195. 6 Lehrbuch der Vergleichenden Anatomie, p. 242. inferior larynx not only better adapted to pro- duce a purer quality of tone, but it is pro- vided with a greater number of muscles for modulating the voice. Among the Insessores, the Corvidae and Sylviadae have the external walls of the infe- rior larynx composed on each side of three semilunar bones which are developed from the inferior portion ot the trachea. The larynx is bounded internally by a bone, which tra- verses the lower end of the trachea, the verti- cal longitudinal section of which coincides with the plane of the mesial section i {fig. 912): this os transversale, after stretching across the tube, divides at each end into two laminae, which diverge laterally from the axis of the bone to meet the two first external bones of the larynx, thus strengthening and complet- ing its solid framework. The superior part of the os transversale is concave, and fur- nished with a very thin delicate membrane, rising vertically from the bone h (fig. 912): this is called by Savart the membrana semi- lunaris. Fig. 912. Section of the lower Larynx. h, membrana semilunaris; i, os transversale; g, membrana tympaniformis. This membrane is most developed in sing- ing birds, and is considered by Savart to be one of the most essential organs of voice in the inferior larynges of the nightingales, thrushes, linnets, finches, and other singing birds, as well as in speaking birds, such as the pies, jays, &c. The inferior edge of the os trans- versale gives attachment to the membrana tym- paniformis. Bones of the inferior larynx. — The first bone a (fig. 913_) is flattened and curved, being convex externally, and concave inter- nally: it forms the boundary of the internal lateral face of the larynx. The second bone b (fig. 913) presents nearly the same form as the first, but it possesses greater mobility, the muscles which are in- serted into it drawing it upwards and out-