TEETH. 870 is shown at p; this is immediately surrounded by the transverse sections of large cylindrical medullary, or pulp-canals of different sizes; and, beyond these, there are smaller and more numerous medullary canals, which are pro- cesses of the central pulp-cavity. In the transverse section these processes are seen to be connected together by a net-work of smaller medullary canals belonging to a coarse osseous texture into which the pulp has been converted, and this structure occupies the middle half of the section. All the medullary canals were filled by the opaque matrix. From the circumference of the central net- work, straight medullary fissures radiate at pretty regular intervals to the periphery of the tooth : most of these canals divide once, rarely twice, in their course; the division taking place sometimes at their origin, in others at different distances from their termi- nations, and the branches diverge slightly as they proceed. Each of the above medullary fissures is continued from a short process of the central structure, which is connected by a concave line with the adjoining process, so that the whole periphery of the transverse section of the central coarse reticulo-medul- lary body of the tooth presents a crenate out- line. From each ray and its primary dicho- tomous divisions, short branches are sent off at brief intervals, generally at right angles with the trunk, or slightly inclined towards the periphery of the tooth. These subdivide into a few short ramifications, like the branches of a shrub, and terminate in irregular and somewhat angular dilatations, simulatingleaves, but which resolve themselves into radiating fasciculi of calcigerous tubes. There are from fifteen to twenty-five or thirty-six of these short and small lateral branches on each side of the medullary rays. A third kind of complication is produced by an aggregation of many simple teeth into a single mass. The examples of these truly compound teeth * are most common in the class of Fishes, but the illustration here selected is from the Mammalian class. Each tooth of the Cape Ant-eater (Orycteropus) presents a simple form, is deeply set in the jaw, but without dividing into fangs; its broad and flat base is porous, like the section of a com- mon cane. The canals to which these pores lead contain processes of a vascular pulp, and are the centres of radiation of as many indc- * In the " Lemons d'Anatomie Comparee" of Cuvier, the teeth, in which folds of enamel and cement penetrate the entire substance of the crown, are called " compound:" " Nous appellons ' dent compose'e' celle dont les diff'e'rentes substances forment des replis tellement profonds, que dans quelque sens qu'on coupe la dent, on coupe plusieurs fois chacune des substances qui la composent: telles sont les dents molaires de VElephant." The teeth of the " Labyrinthodonts " would come under this definition more truly than those of the elephant, although they differ from them in having no enamel; for a molar of an elephant might be bisected, verti- cally and transversely, without cutting the tissues across more than once. pendent series of dentinal tubules. Each tooth, in fact, consists of a congeries of long and slender prismatic denticles of dentine, which are cemented together by their ossified capsules, the columnar denticles slightly de- creasing in diameter and occasionally bifur- cating as they approach the grinding surface of the tooth. A figure of a longitudinal section of the molar teeth is given in PI. 76, Jig. 10. of my " Odontography," and a magnified view of a similar section in PI. 77. ; jig. 555. gives a magnified view of a portion of the transverse Fig. 555. Part of transverse section of the tooth of the Oryc- teropus. (Magnified.-) section of the fourth molar, showing c the cement; d the dentine; p the pulp-cavity of the denticles ; and a" a section of one of the denticles just beyond its bifurcation. The pectinated incisors of the flying Lemur of the Indian Islands (Galcopit/iecus) are ex- amples of teeth, the crowns of which are composed of denticles consisting of hard den- tine, with a covering of true enamel. The layer of cement over this is too thin to show its characteristic structure, and does not fill up the intervals of the denticles, which stand out as free processes from the base of the crown. Tubular prolongations of the pulp- cavity are continued up the centre of each denticle. Fig. 556. exhibits a longitudinal section, magnified, of this kind of compound tooth; d is the dentine; e the enamel; p the pulp- cavity. The originally detached summits of the crown of the human incisor are homo- logous with these columnar processes, or denticles of the incisor of the Galeopithecus. In the compound molars of the great Afri- can wart-hogs (Phacochcvrus) the columnar denticles are in three rows, and their inter- spaces are filled up by cement: each denticle consists of a slender column of hard dentine inclosed in a thick sheet of enamel, the whole being bound together by the cement; and the