925 TEETH. substance (c) which fills the interspaces of the enamelled plates, and here more especially merits the name of " cement," since it binds together the several divisions of the crown before they are fully formed and united by the confluence of their bases into a common body of dentine. As the calcification of each plate begins at the summit, they remain de- tached from each other and like so many se- parate teeth or denticules, until their base is completed, when it becomes blended with the bases of contiguous plates to form the common body of the crown of the complex tooth from which the roots are next developed. The plates of the molar teeth of the Si- berian Mammoth (Elephas primigenius) are thinner in proportion to their breadth, and are generally a little expanded at the middle ; and they are more numerous in proportion to the size of the crown than in the existing species of Asiatic Elephant. In the African Elephant, on the other hand, the lamellar divisions of the crown are fewer and thicker, and they expand more uniformly from the margins to the centre, yielding a lozenge-form when cut or worn transversely, as in masti- cation. The horizontal as well as vertical course of development of the elephant's grinder is well illustrated by the Mammoth's molar, the last of the lower jaw. The separate digital processes of the posterior plates are still distinct, and adhere only by the re- maining cement ; a little in advance we see them united to form the transverse plate ; and, at the opposite extremity of the tooth, the common base of dentine is exposed by which the plates are finally blended into one individual complex grinder*; this never takes place simultaneously along the whole course of the tooth in the larger molars of the existing Indian elephant, or its extinct congener, the Mammoth. The African ele- phant, and some of the extinct Indian species, as the El. planifrons, manifest their affinity to the Mastodon by the basal confluence of the hindmost plates before the foremost ones are worn out. The formation of each grinder begins with the summits of the anterior plate, and the rest are completed in succession ; the tooth is gradually advanced in position as its growth proceeds; and, in the existing Indian elephant, the anterior plates are brought into use before the posterior ones are formed. When the complex molar cuts the gum the cement is first rubbed off the digital summits: then their enamel cap is worn away, and the * Some anatomists describe the divisions of the crown of the elephant's grinder as so many " distinct teeth;" and Mr. Corse (loc. cit. p. 213,), who first propounded this view, calls each complex grinder " a case of teeth," and states " that these teeth are merely joined to each other by an intermediate softer substance, acting like a cement." But this description applies only to the imperfectly-formed tooth; and the detached eminences of the crown of any complex tooth, at that stage of growth when they are held together only by the still uncalcified supporting matrix, might with equal justice be regarded as so many distinct teeth. central dentine comes into play with a promi- nent enamel ring ; the digital processes are next ground down to their common uniting base, and a transverse tract of dentine with its wavy border of enamel is exposed ; finally, the transverse plates themselves are abraded to their common base of dentine, and a smooth and polished tract of that substance is pro- duced.* From this basis the roots of the molar are developed, and increase in length to keep the worn crown on the grinding level, until the reproductive force is exhausted. When the whole extent of a grinder has successively come into play, its last part is reduced to a long fang supporting a smooth and polished field of dentine, with, perhaps, a few remnants of the bottom of the enamel folds at its hinder part. When the complex molar has been thus worn down to a uni- form surface it becomes useless as an instru- ment for grinding the coarse vegetable sub- stances on which the elephant subsists ; it is attacked by the absorbent action, and the wasteil portion of the molar is finally shed. The grinding teeth of the elephant pro- gressively increase in size, and in the number of lamellar divisions, from the first to the last; and, as the rate of increase in both respects is nearly identical in both jaws, I shall describe them chiefly as they appear in the lower one. The first molar, which cuts the gum in the course of the second.week after birth, has a sub-compressed crown, nine lines in antero- posterior diameter, divided by three trans- verse clefts into four plates, the third being the broadest, and the tooth here measuring six lines across f ; the first and second plates have two mammilloid summits ; the third and fourth have three or four such; there is a sin- gle and sometimes a double mammilloid sum- mit at the fore and back part of the crown : the base slightly contracts, and forms a neck as long as the enamelled crown, but of less breadth, and this divides into two, an anterior and posterior, long, sub-cylindrical, diverging, but mutually incurved fangs ; the total length of this tooth is one inch and a half. The corresponding upper molar, which Mr. Corse describes as cutting the gum a little earlier than the lower one, has the anterior single digital process or mammilla, and the pos- terior talon developed into a fifth plate, smaller than the fourth, with which its middle part is confluent; the neck of this tooth is shorter, and the two fangs are shorter, larger, and more compressed than those of the lower first molar. This tooth is the homologne of the probably deciduous molar ((/. 2) in other * In the fossil specimen figured in plate 147, of my " Odontography," the left molar 7, exhibits all the above-described gradations of use ; but the right molar, r, through some accident to the opposing tooth in the lower jaw, has not been so worn, but projects beyond the level of the left molar, with the mammillated margins of the plates en- tire. t Those are also the dimensions of the first lower molar figured by Mr. Corse, loc. cit. pi. vi.Jig. 1, d, and /fy. 3 ; but I have seen the first lower molar of smaller dimensions.