821 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. foramina, and which are conducted by the nerves to the spinal cord, where they join and reinforce the proper spinal arteries. 3. In the space between the atlas and occi- pital bone, the vertebral artery sends several long branches down the neck, which are con- cealed by the splenius and complexus muscles. Accompanied by smaller branches of the occi- pital, these arteries keep up an important anastomosis on the back of the neck with the cervicalis profunda. 4, 5. The proper spinal arteries. These are two in number on each side, an anterior and a posterior branch from each vertebral trunk. The posterior spinal arteries arise lower down than the anterior, and pass downwards and backwards to reach the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata; from this the artery of each side descends parallel to its fellow, to which it is connected by numerous transverse branches. Opposite the second lumbar vertebra, the posterior spinal arteries cease to exist as distinct trunks. The anterior spinal arteries are given off from the vertebral near to its termination ; these arteries in descending approximate to each other, and at last unite opposite the lower edge of the medulla oblongata; the single trunk thus formed {anterior median artery of the spinal cord) descends tortuously in front of the medulla spinalis, and, passing through the very centre of the fibres of the cauda equina, reaches the lowest portion of the vertebral canal, when it anastomoses with branches of the sacral arteries. The anterior and posterior spinal arteries are connected in every region of the spine with brandies of arteries which enter the spinal canal through the " foramina of con- junction ;" these reinforcing brandies, as they may be termed, of the spinal arteries (derived front the cervicalis ascendens and vertebral in the neck, from the intercostal in the back, and from the lumbar and sacral arteries in the lower portion of the spinal column), cause these arteries which they join to pre- serve a remarkable uniformity of size through- out their entire course. Both the spinal arteries furnish small branches to the dura mater and to the spinal cord. Branches of the basilar artery. — 1. The inferior (or posterior) cerebellar artery. — This artery seldom arises in precisely the same manner at opposite sides of the same subject. It most frequently springs on one side from the vertebral, and on the other from the basilar trunk. Inclining outwards and backwards, in front of the pyramidal body, the vessel in question passes (according as its origin is from the basilar, or from the vertebral artery) before or behind the sixth nerve; it then runs through the filaments going to form the ninth nerve, and between the pneumogastric and spinal accessory divi- sion of the eighth pair; it is ultimately dis- tributed internally to the inferior vermiform process and sides of the median fissure (a branch or two may be traced into the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle), and externally to the inferior surface and circumference of the cerebellum, where it communicates with the superior artery of the cerebellum. 2. The superior (or anterior) cerebellar artery.—This artery arises near the antero- superior edge of the pons varolii; it passes in a curved direction outwards and backwards, around the line of junction of the pons with the crus cerebri. It is at first parallel to the posterior artery of the cerebrum, but separated from it by the'third nerve. The fourth nerve in its trajet forwards is strictly parallel to the artery as it runs backwards on the side of the pons varolii; the nerve, however, is contained in a canal between the layers of the tentorium, whilst the artery proceeds beneath that par- tition, and in contact with the upper surface of the cerebellum. The branches of the superior cerebellar artery are numerous ; they are distributed to the upper surface and circumference of the cerebellum, anastomosing with the inferior cerebellar artery, and also to the pons varolii, velum interpositum, superior vermiform pro- cess, and valve of Vieussens. One small branch of this artery accompanies and separates the facial and auditory nerves, entering with them into the internal auditory meatus. Lastly, some of its branches pass on the upper surface of the tentorium, and are distributed to the inferior surface of the cerebrum. 3. Posterior artery of the cerebrum. — The two posterior arteries of the cerebrum are the terminating branches of the basilar trunk ; each artery passes at first forwards, then backwards and outwards, following the course of the great cerebral fissure, and partly en- circling the crus cerebri. For a considerable portion of its course the posterior artery of the cerebrum is parallel to the posterior (or inferior) cerebellar artery; the two arteries, however, are separated from one another, at first, by the third nerve (which latter, in its further course, hooks round the posterior artery of the cerebrum), and subsequently by the tentorium. At the point where the posterior artery of the cerebrum changes its direction in order to pass backwards and outwards, it is joined by the " posterior com- municating artery," and by this means a com- munication is established between the internal carotid and basilar arteries. The posterior artery of the cerebrum is chiefly distributed by long slender branches to the inferior surface of the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, but it furnishes, in addition, the following collateral branches:—I. Nume- rous small twigs which enter the floor of the third ventricle, through the apertures in the locus perforatus medius, or are distributed to the crura cerebri, corpora albicantia, and tuber cenereum ; and 2. a choroid branch, which winds round the crus cerebri, enters the cerebral fissure, and is lost in the velum inter- positum, corpora quadrigemina, and choroid plexuses. 3 g 3