URETHRA. 1215 the bulbous and membranous portions of the canal.* Mr. Briggs observing that most of his pre- decessors had examined the length of the urethra after death, made a series of examina- tions of the canal in the living subject; and he adopted the following mode of examina- tion :— He introduced into the bladder a ca- theter without a stilet, on the stem of which was marked a graduated scale of inches and fractional parts, measured from the eye of the instrument. He observes, "as soon as the urine begins to flow from the catheter, which has only one eye, the line marked on the stem corresponding with the external meatus will necessarily indicate the exact length of the canal, or the distance from the meatus to its termination in the bladder. Of sixty persons in whom the urethra was measured thus, the length was found to vary from 6f to 8J inches. In eight instances, or rather less than one- seventh of the whole (twenty of them being persons of short stature, or not exceeding 5 feet 4 inches in height), the length of the urethra was found to be under 7 inches. In forty-five instances, or three-fourths of the numher, i. e. in persons of middle stature, the measurement was found to be between 7 and 8 inches, and in a few it exceeded 8. In some instances of very corpulent subjects, at an advanced age, the urethra was found to be 10 inches in length." He considers the average length of the passage to be 71 or 7f inches, the external parts being in a natural condition, neither hanging in a loose, flabhy state, nor unusually retracted. Briggs found the pro- portions of the various parts of the canal to stand relatively thus : — from the orifice to the membranous part, 6A inches; from thence to the bladder, If inch = 8^ inches. As there was no stretching of the penis in the examina- tions thus made, it is easy to reconcile the discrepancies between Briggs's and Whately's measurements. Of the relative length of the different por- tions of the canal, M.Petrequin cites the fol- lowing authorities : — The prostatic portion measures, according to Boyer, 1.5 or 16 lines ; Littre, 1.5 lines; Ducamp and Blandin, from 12 to 15; Senn, 13; J. Cloquet, 15. M. Petrequin agrees with Lisfranc, that the most exact measurement is from 8 to 11 lines. Boyer estimates the length of the mem- branous portion at 12 lines; Ducamp, from 9 to 12; Blandin, at 10; Lisfranc, from 7 to 11. M. Petrequin has found it to vary from 6 to 9 lines, when measured by its central axis ; its upper surface measuring from 8 to 10 lines, its under surface from 4 to 5 and sometimes 6, the difference arising from the projection of the bulb beneath. The mean length of the prostatic and membranous portions taken to- gether is, according to Malgaigne, 13 lines, but it varies from 11 to 15 lines. Petrequin * See the review of M. Petrequin's work ( Traite cTAnatomie Medico-cliirurgique, §"c), in the British and Foreigu Medical Review, vol. xx. p. 136. has found it to vary from 14 to 18 and some- times 20. As to the bulbous and pendulous portions of the urethra, their rectilinear mea- surement is 6 inches or G inches and 10 lines, and the curvilinear 5 inches or 5 inches and 4 lines.* Diameter. — In diameter, also, the urethra varies according to age: thus in the young sub- ject it is small; indeed its diameter increases in proportion to the age of the individual; and in the aged, partly in consequence of the flac- cidity of the parts surrounding it, partly from the loss of contractility in its own tissue, its capacity becomes immensely increased, so that it will readily admit a catheter of half- an-inch bore, and the escape of fragments of stone of equal size. Even in the infant, however, the urethra is more capacious than is generally imagined, and will admit a much larger sound than we should a priori suppose ; a fact of no small im- portance in sounding at this early period of life. When the penis is erect, the urethra is diminished in diameter, from the pressure of the turgid veins of the spongy body, and from the increased distension of its own blood- vessels. To ascertain the diameter of the urethra, and to compare it in persons of different ages, Sir E. Home examined the canal in two persons — one of the age of 80, and the other 30. At 80. At 30. At 9 lines from the meatus it measured - - - 5 lines 44 lines. At 4 inches 3 lines from ditto 4 4 At 6 inches from the meatus (at the bulb) - 7 7i At 7 inches (beginning of membranous part) - - 4 2f At 7 inches 9 lines (near the prostate) - - - 5 4 At 8 inches (beginning of the prostatic part) - 4 3\ At 8 inches 3 lines (the middle of ditto) - - 6 51 At 8i inches (near the neck of the bladder) - - 5 4J- Briggs directed his attention to the dia- meter of the urethra in the various parts of its course, and he found the dimensions ma- terially altered if the urethra be injected with wax or any other substance; and the result of his examination throws considerable doubt on the conclusions of Sir Everard Home. From the casts which he made he failed to discover any sudden narrowing or constric- tion at the termination of the membranous part of the urethra, or any resemblance in the shape of the curve as represented in Home's plates.f Briggs remarks, " The portion of the urethra which extends from the apex of the prostate * Ibid. t From examinations I have made myself of wax casts of the urethra, I believe the representations of Home not to be exaggerated.