1255 URETHRA. cording to the condition of the canal. If any obstruction exists either at the prostatic part, or in any other situation, the force, size, shape, or direction, of the urinary stream is altered according to circumstances; and hence, by inspection during the passage of the urine, we can often arrive at a satisfactory conclu- sion of the nature of the obstruction without the introduction of instruments. When, however, the seminal secretion is to be expelled, the condition of the urethra is totally altered, and the canal is diminished in diameter but increased in length from the general distension of the penis with blood, and the consequent erection of the organ. The direction of the anterior part of the urethra is altered and straightened to the utmost ; the prostatic part is raised by the action of the levator prostata', and thus forms a gentle inclination with the membranous part'; and the fluid oozing through the vasa ejaculatoria is collected in the bulb, which thus becomes distended. Although it is not possible to see what is going on, jet we may imagine that at this period of the orgasm a sort of vermicular movement takes place, and that successive contractions and relaxations of the muscular apparatus of this part of the genito-urinary system occur. Thus I appre- hend that the sphincter vesicae effectually closes up the orifice of the bladder, whilst the levator ani and compressor prostata? ex- pel the contents of the vesiculae and the pro- state : and further, that after the bulb is dis- tended with fluid,the acceleratores urinae con- tract with considerable and successive effort, and at this moment the muscles surrounding the membranous part contracting prevent any retrogression of the seminal and vesicular se- cretions, and thus the contents of the urethra are forcibly expelled through the anterior part of the canal, now made rigid by the distension of the penis, and by the contraction of its own peculiar tissue, a forcible muscular effort being required to expel the somewhat inspissated fluids. The erection of the caput galiinaginis, by the distension of its erectile tissue, has considerable influence in closing up the prostatic part of the urethra, and thus assists in preventing its retrogression into the bladder. The action of the acceleratores ur'mce in expelling the contents of the urethra in the venereal orgasm, has been denied on the high authority of Cuvier. Kobelt believes that their sole action is to compress the bulb, and thus to force the blood onwards into the glans penis, and to increase the turgescence of this body ; but that they have no direct influence either in accelerating the flow of ui'ine as their name implies, or in the evacua- tion of the urethra during the act of copu- lation.* There are few parts with which the consti- tution has a more close sympathy than the * Die Mannlichen und Weiblichen Wollust- orgiine rles Menschen, &e. Yon Kobelt. Frei- burg, 1844. urethra: this is evinced by the general disturb- ance of health under the influence of diseases of this canal: thus, in inflammation from gonorrhoea, or even common causes, irritative fever is set up, persisting frequently as long as the disease lasts. So also, when in suspected or actual stricture, a bougie is passed along the canal, faintness occurs, followed by a class of symptoms resembling those of the suc- cessive stages of an ordinary intermittent. When ulceration takes place, a similar train of symptoms sets in. The same is also fre- quently remarked during the passage of stones, or fragments of stone, along the canal. This sympathy must be referred to the general nervous supply derived from the filaments of the sympathetic and cerebro-spinal axis. The sensibility of the urethra is not the same throughout ; it is evidently more intense at the commencement, in the prostatic and mem- branous portions, and near the meatus, than in the spongy part generally. The pain, how- ever, accompanying diseases of the urethra is commonly referred to the meatus, in obedi- ence to the well-known law, that when irrita- tion of any of the mucous surfaces produces pain, this is principally felt at the point where the mucous and cutaneous systems blend into one another, namely at the outlet of the mucous canal. Development. — The development of the male urethra is a subject of considerable interest both in a physiological and patho- logical point of view, as a comprehension of the phenomena attending it enables us to offer a ready explanation of those curious mal- formations to which this canal is not un- frequently liable. For the description of the development of the intra-pelvic portion of the urethra from the uro-genital sinus, the reader is referred to the article Prostate, in which the separa- tion between the bladder and rectum in the male, and the bladder, rectum, and vagina of the female, is considered ; and we have, there- fore, now only to trace the growth anu exten- sion of that portion of the urethra which traverses the body of the penis. Up to the end of the fifth or beginning of the sixth week, the external organs of ge- neration in the male resemble those of the female, and a common opening or cloaca exists, into which the rectum, bladder, and genital organs terminate. At the anterior part of this common outlet a small projection is formed, presenting a concavity below, along which there runs a superficial groove towards the anus. Tiiis corresponds to the clitoris in the female, and the penis in the male. A slight enlargement now takes place at the extremity, which becomes the glans. In the female the two sides of the groove begin to swell out, and become the labia majora. A separation now takes place between the open- ings of the anus and vagina, and the perimeuin begins to be formed. The opening of the uro-genital canal is a small aperture in front of the anus, at the extremity of a slit, which proceeds as far as the root of the penis or 4 L i