VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1311 Australian dingo was the probable ancestor of the spaniel, and that the American wild-dog gives us the type of the pug, the hypothesis of Professor Agassiz might be admitted to possess a considerable claim to our reception. But so far is this from being the case, that, as already pointed out, the several races of wild clogs present a remarkable conformity to a common type; and neither of them can be looked to, in preference to the others, as the probable source of those domesticated breeds which are most diverse from each other, and from the supposed common type. Moreover, there is a strong probability, considering the very remarkable character of the zoology of New Holland, that the dingo was not indige- nous to that country, but that it was intro- duced there by its human colonizers ; thus, being a descendant of the Indian dhole, or of the same stock with it. Hence, even if we admit the multiplication of' protoplasts' in the case of the dog, we are still driven back upon the influences of domestication as the direct or indirect source of those variations from the fundamental type, by which the existing races are severally characterised. The historical evidence of modification in successive generations, which is inadequate to prove the specific identity of the several races of Dogs, is much more fully supplied in the case of some other domesticated animals; and suffices to show that although the tendency to spontaneous variation may seem to have nearly exhausted itself heretofore in the production of the most divergent forms, still there remains enough to originate new races, distinguished by well-marked pecu- liarities of conformation, even under our own eyes. Some of our most valuable information on this subject, is derived from the changes which have taken place in the races of do- mesticated animals introduced into the West Indies and South America, by the Spaniards, three centuries and a half since. Many of these races have multiplied extremely in a soil and in a climate congenial to their na- ture; and several of them have run wild in the vast forests of America, and have lost all the most obvious appearances of domestica- tion, whilst they have acquired various pecu- liarities which distinguish them from their domesticated progenitors, some of these, per- haps, being indications of a partial restoration to the primitive characteristics of their re- spective races. The greatest part of our knowledge on this subject is derived from the researches of M. Roulin (already referred to) which relate to New Grenada and Venezuela, anil from the well-known and justly esteemed work of D'Azara on the natural history of Paraguay. No zoologist has any doubt whatever, that the wild boar is the original of our domesti- cated swine; the change from the one form and condition to the other being capable of accomplishment in the course of a few gene- rations. Yet, as Blumenbach has remarked, the difference between the two forms of crania is as great as that between the Negro and the European skulls. And the same eminent physiologist has pointed out, that the varie- ties of swine in various countries, all clearly referable to one stock, exceed in their extent of divergence from it, the very widest de- partures of the human conformation from any one type. Thus, swine with solid hoofs were known to the ancients ; and large breeds of them arc found in Hungary and Sweden, as also in some parts of England. In some other breeds there are five distinct toes, each having its own hoof. The European swine, first carried by the Spaniards to the island of Cubagua, in 1509, have been the progenitors of a race now found there, possessing toes of half a span in length. The hogs which were first introduced into South America by the Spaniards at about the same period, rapidly extended themselves over the northern and central parts of that continent ; and whilst wandering at large in the vast forests of the New World, and feeding on their original diet of fruits and seeds, they have reverted very nearly to the type of the European boar. Their colour, too, has lost the variety ob- servable in the domestic breeds, the wild hogs of the American forests being for the most part uniformly black. The hogs which cover the mountains of the Paramos, where they are subject to severe cold and deficient nourishment, are small and of a stunted figure ; but their skins are covered with thick fur, often somewhat crisp, beneath which is found in some individuals a species of wool. In some of the warmest regions, the swine are not uniformly black, but red like the young peccari ; and elsewhere there are some, whose blackness gives place under the belly to a white band, which reaches up to the back. The question of the original source of the various breeds of ox, will not be now dis- cussed ; it is sufficient for our present pur- pose to notice some of the most remarkable departures from the European type, which have shown themselves in the South Ameri- can descendants of the individuals first intro- duced there by the Spaniards. In the year 1770, as we learn from D'Azara, a hornless bull was produced in Paraguay, which has been the progenitor of a race of hornless cattle that has since multiplied extensively in that country. So, again, as we are informed by M. Roulin, in some of the hot provinces of South America, a variety of ox has been produced, which is noted for its extremely rare and fine fur. This variety tends to per- petuate itself ; but it is not encouraged, be- cause the " pelones" (as they are termed) are too delicate in constitution to bear the cold of the Cordilleras, to which the cattle are driven for the provision of the towns situated upon them. These pelones obviously con- stitute a variety adapted for a particular climate; oxen of other breeds frequently perishing when driven into the provinces in- habited by them, or being with difficulty acclimatised.* But the same hot provinces * Hence we see that so much of Prof. Agassiz' argument for the multiplicity of specific centres, as