]«6 VESIC'ULA PROSTAT1CA. Bd. 111. AUth. 1. S. 130. Anmerkung, p. 110. upper dilated part by a kind of constriction. The under end opens by a small elongated oval aperture (of -J- to a line) on the anterior declivity of the verumontanum. The orifices of the two ejaculatory ducts * lie right and left of the opening, at a very small distance from it, usually somewhat higher, yet never quite symmetrical: they are sometimes close to it, or somewhat behind it. These ducts pass up the sides of the Weberian organ, and receive it between them, being bound up with it by areolar tissue. Fig. 873. Man (copied from Weber's Zusatzen.') a. Urethra ; b, Weberian corpuscle ; c, vas deferens, witli vesicula semiualis; d, prostate. In the Weberian corpuscle of two new- born infants, H. Meckel-f- found a special variety of structure. It became thinner in its ascent, so as to be only permeable by a hog's bristle, and ended as a solid thread, which separated by bifurcating. Morgagni | was the first who accurately described the Weberian organ, which he also probably discovered. Of fifteen human bodies which he examined with this object, he found it in fourteen. It is possible that in the one remaining case he overlooked it, since it sometimes happens that its mouth is but small, or is even altogether deficient, as Buschke has frequently ascertained it in healthy and robust suicides. Nevertheless it is not improbable that in some cases there is a complete absence of the Weberian corpuscle; the less so that we sometimes verify such dif- rences in other animals. In two of these fifteen cases, Morgagni found that the utri- culus, instead of opening by a special aperture, communicated with one of the ejaculatory * See Prostate, Vol. IV. fig. 103. | Zur Morphologie der Ham- u. Geschleehts- werkzenge. Halle, 1848, 8. 48. Tab. II. fig. 23. X Advers. Anat. IV. Animadv. 3. Venet. 17C2, ducts. But at all events this is a rare ano- maly, which has been since observed by Adams only.* In a case mentioned by Hyrtlf, there was a simultaneous deficiency of both vesiculae seminales, and the ejaculatory ducts descended into the upper end of a single receptacle, which was one inch long and seven lines broad. But though Hyrtl and Theile regarded this structure as certainly an uterus masculinus, and thus as a Weberian organ; yet the in- sertion of the ejaculatory ducts at the upper end is a circumstance which contradicts their view. As we shall hereafter show, such a con- nection is a morphological impossibility. Even where an immediate communication between the vasa deferentia and the Weberian cor- puscle exists (as is normally the case in the hare), it occurs only at the inferior extremity of the latter organ. Quidrumana. — In the Apes a Weberian Fig. 874. Weberian corpuscle of Inuus Cynnmolyus,as seen by a perpendicular Section, a, Urethra; b, Weberian organ; c, vas defereii s with seminal vesicle; d, prostate. corpuscle appeal's very general. It here in- closes a small, narrow and flat canal, which above has a blind extremity, and scarcely possesses a greater width than at its lower end. Its length is about two lines. Its mouth, in the uro-genital canal, is surrounded as with a wall by an annular swelling, which has some resemblance to a small os tinea?, and in which one may also, generally, dis- tinguish an anterior and posterior lip. Im- mediately behind this opening are the mouths of the ejaculatory ducts, the lower ends of which are apposed to the hinder wall of the corpuscle, and are covered by the prostate. As far as my researches go J, the above description will apply to the Weberian organ in all Apes. At least I have found it thus in Inuus Ci/nomolgus (in whom it was formerly described by BergmanntJ), in Inuus nemes- trinus, Cynocephalus Maimon, and a species of Harpaie (Harpale Iacc/nts?) which, with all the animals I examined, was placed at my * Adams, loc. cit. p. 153. t Oesterreiche Medic. Wochenschrift, 1841, S. 45. { Zur Anatomie U. Physiologie der Geschlechts- organe. Gottingen, 1847, S. 99. § Wagner's Handworterbuch der Physiologie,