VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1295 of these four hands are adapted to the va- riety of actions of which those of man are capable, and they are all in some degree re- quired for support; so that whilst in the higher forms of the Quadrumanous order, the extremities present a certain approximation in structure to those of man, in the lower they gradually assimilate to the ordinary quadrupedal type. " That," says Cuvier, " which constitutes the hand, properly so called, is the faculty of opposing the thumb to the other fingers, so as to seize upon the most minute objects ; a faculty which is car- ried to its highest degree of perfection in Man, in whom the whole anterior extremity is free, and can be employed in prehension." The peculiar prehensile power possessed by man is chiefly dependent upon the size and power of the thumb ; which is more developed in Man than it is in the highest apes. The thumb of the human hand can be brought into exact opposition to the extremities of all the fingers, whether singly or in combination ; whilst in those Quadrumana which most nearly ap- proach man, the thumb is so short, and the fingers so much elongated, that their tips can scarcely be brought into opposition ; and the thumb and fingers are so weak, that they can never be opposed to each other with any de- gree of force. Hence, although admirably adapted for clinging round bodies of a certain size, such as the small branches of trees, &c., the extremities of the Quadrumana can nei- ther seize very minute objects with such pre- cision, nor support large ones with such firmness, as are essential to the dexterous per- formance of a variety of operations, for which the hand of Man is admirably adapted. There is much truth, then, in Sir C. Bell's remark, that "we ought to define the hand as belong- ing exclusively to man." There is in him, what we observe in none of the Mammalia which approach him in other respects, a com- plete distinction in the functional character of the anterior and posterior extremities ; the former being adapted for prehension alone, and the latter for support and progression alone; and thus each function is performed in a much higher degree of perfection, than it can be when two such opposite purposes have to be united. For not only is the hand of man a much more perfect prehensile in- strument than that of the orang or chim- panzee, but his foot is a much more perfect organ of support and progression than theirs, being adapted to maintain his body in an erect position, alike during rest and whilst in motion, — an attitude which even the roost anthropoid apes can only sustain for a short time, and with an obvious effort. The arm of the higher apes has as wide a range of motion as that of man, so far as its articu- lation is concerned ; but it is only when the animal is in the erect attitude, that the limb can have free play. Thus the structure of the whole frame must be conformable to that of the hand, in the way that we find it to be in man, in order that this organ may be advan- tageously applied to the purposes which it is adapted to perform. But it cannot be said with truth (as some have maintained) that Man owes his superiority to his hand alone ; for without the mind by which it is directed, and the senses by which its operations are guided, it would be a comparatively valueless in- strument. Man's elevated position is due to the superiority of his mind and of its ma- terial instruments conjointly ; for if destitute of either, the human race must be speedily ex- tinguished altogether, or reduced to a very subordinate grade of existence. The next series of characters to be con- sidered, are those by which man is adapted to the erect attitude. On examining his cra- nium, we remark that the occipital condyles are so placed, that a perpendicular dropped from the centre of gravity of the head would nearly fall between them, so as to be within the base on which it rests upon the spinal column. The foramen magnum is not placed in the centre of the skull, but just behind it; so that the greater specific gravity of the pos- terior part of the head, which is entirely filled with solid mattcr,iscompensated by the greater length of the anterior part, which contains many cavities. There is, indeed, a little over- compensation, which gives a slight prepon- derance to the front of the head, so that it drops forwards and downwards, when all the muscles are relaxed; but the muscles which are attached to the occiput are larger and far more numerous than those in front of the condyles, so that they are evidently intended to counteract this disposition; and we find, accordingly, that we can keep up the head for a whole day, with so slight and involuntary effort, that no fatigue is produced by it. More- over, the plane of the foramen magnum, and the surfaces of the condyles, have a nearly horizontal direction when the head is upright ; and thus the weight of the skull is laid verti- cally upon the top of the vertebral column. If these arrangements be compared with those which prevail in other Mammalia, it will be found that the foramen and condyles are placed in the latter much nearer the back of the head, and that their plane is more oblique. Thus, whilst the foramen magnum is situated, in Man, just behind the centre of the base of the skull, it is found in the Chimpanzee and Orang to occupy the middle of the poste- rior third ; and as we descend through the scale of Mammalia, we observe that it gra- dually approaches the back of the skull, and at last comes nearly into the line of its longest diameter, as we see in the Horse. So the angle of inclination which the condyles make with the horizontal is very small in Man, but rises in the Orang to 37° ; whilst in the Horse their plane is vertical, making the angle 90°. If, therefore, the natural posture of man had been horizontal, the plane of his condyles would be brought, like that of the horse, into the vertical position ; and the head, instead of being nearly balanced upon the summit of the vertebral column, would hang at the end of the neck, so that its whole weight would have to be supported by some