886 TEETH. gigantic Salamander anil of the Alligator; and the outer surface of the bones was strongly sculptured, as in the Crocodilian family, but of a relatively larger and coarser pattern. The upper jaw contains a single row of small teeth, about sixty in number, anterior to which are three or four large conical tusks. The bases of the serial teeth project directly from the outer wall of the shallow socket, there being no alveolar ridge external to it. The second large anterior tusk is three times the size of the first of the serial teeth, and the size of these teeth gradually diminishes as they are placed further back ; the length of the common-sized teeth being about two lines, and the greatest breadth one-third of a line. The apical two-thirds of each tooth is smooth, but the basal third is fluted and anchylosed to the outer wall of the socket. The osseous roof of the mouth is principally composed of a pair of broad and flat bones, homologous with the divided vomer in Batrachia, but of much greater relative extent, approaching, in this respect, those of the Menopome, and de- fending the mouth with a more extensive roof of bone than exists in any Lacertian reptile ; physiologically, therefore, the La- byrinthodon, in this part of its structure, comes nearest to the Crocodile; but the structure itself, morphologically, is essen- tially Batrachian.* In the Menopome f and gigantic Salamander, a row of small teeth ex- tends transversely across the anterior extre- mity of the vomerine bones; and the occur- rence in the Labyrinihodon of a similar row, consisting in each palatine bone of three median small teeth and two outer larger ones, marks most strongly its Batrachian nature; and from the outermost tooth a longitudinal row of small and equal-sized teeth is con- tinued backward along the exterior margin of the palatine bone. The whole of this series of palatal teeth is nearly concentric with the maxillary teeth. In Lacertine reptiles the examples of a row of palatal teeth are rare, and, when pre- sent, it is short, and situated towards the back of the palate, upon {he pterygoid bones, as in the Iguana and Mosasaur.J In Batra- chians the most common disposition of the palatal teeth is a transverse row placed at the anterior part of the divided vomer, as in Frogs, the Menopome and gigantic Salamander, and at the posterior part in certain toads. In the Amphiume, on the contrary, the palatal teeth form a nearly longitudinal series along the outer margin of the palatine bones. The Labyrinihodon combines both these disposi- tions of the palatal teeth. The lower jaw, like the upper, contains a series of small teeth, with a few larger tusks anterior to them, the serial teeth are long and slender, gradually diminishing in size towards the anterior por- tion of the jaw; the largest fossil portion which I have obtained presents a linear series of not less than fifty sockets, placed alter- * Odontography, pi. 63. A, fig. 3. t lb. pi. 62. figs. 1 & 2. % lb. pi. 68. nately, one nearer the inner, the next nearer the outer side of the jaw. The sockets of the teeth are shallower than in the upper jaw ; the outer wall is more developed than the inner, and the anchylosed bases of the teeth more nearly resemble, in their oblique position, those of existing Batrachia. With regard to the modification of the microscopic structure of the teeth, I may observe that, between the apex and the part where the inflected vertical folds of the cement com- mence, the tooth resembles, in the sim- plicity of its intimate structure, that of the entire tooth of ordinary Batrachia and most reptiles ; and in the lower or basal half of the tooth the labyrinthie structure above de- scribed commences, and gradually increases in complexity. In the genus Deirodon*, the teeth of the ordinary bones of the mouth are so small as to be scarcely perceptible ; and they appear to be soon lost, so that it has been described as edentulous, and has been called " Anodon." An acquaintance with the habits and food of this species has shown how admirably this apparent defect is adapted to its well- being. Its business is to restrain the undue increase of the smaller birds by devouring their eggs. Now if the teeth had existed of the ordinary form and proportions in the maxillary and palatal regions, the egg would have been broken as soon as it was seized, and much of the nutritious contents would have escaped from the lipless mouth of the snake in the act of deglutition ; but, owing to the almost edentulous state of the jaws, the egg glides along the expanded opening unbroken ; and it is not until it has reached the gullet, and the closed mouth prevents any escape of the nutritious matter, that the egg becomes exposed to instruments adapted for its perforation. These instruments consist of the inferior spinous pocessess (hyp- apophyses) of the seven or eight posterior cer- vical vertebrae, the extremities of which are capped by a layer of hard cement, and pene- trate the dorsal parietes of the oesophagus. They may be readily seen, even in very small subjects, in the interior of that tube, in which their points are directed backwards. The shell being sawed open longitudinally by these vertebral teeth, the egg is crushed by the contractions of the gullet, and is carried to the stomach, where the shell is no doubt soon dissolved by the acid gastric juice. In the Boa Cunstrictor, the teeth are slender, conical, suddenly bent backwards and inwards above their base of attachment; the crown is straight or very slightly curved, e. g. in the posterior teeth. The inter- maxillary bone supports four small teeth ; each maxillary bone has eight much larger ones, which gradually decrease in size as they are placed further back. There are eight or nine teeth of similar size and proportions in each premandibular bone. These teeth * The Coluber scaber of Linnaeus ; an arboreal serpent of South Africa.