VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1301 first time they are taken to the woods, are acquainted with this mode of attack ; whereas a dog of another breed starts forward at once, is surrounded by the peccari, and, whatever may be his strength, is destroyed in a moment. The fixed and deliberate stand of the pointer, again, whether taught by the agency of man, or a habit engendered, like the preceding, by the force of circumstances, is so intimately con- nected with the constitution of the race, that occasionally it becomes hereditary ; a young pointer, taken into the field for the first time, being often observed to perform its duty as well as its long-trained seniors. A still more remarkable example of the transmission of acquired psychical peculiarities, is afforded by the case of the retriever, a breed of dogs which has been trained to keep close to the sportsman until he has fired, and then to go in search of the game which he has wounded or brought down. It is obvious that this habit could only have been taught by the agency of man ; and yet it has been frequently observed that a young retriever, on the very first occasion of being taken into the field, has conducted itself as well, and brought back game with as much steadiness, as older dogs which had been schooled into the same ma- noeuvre by means of the whip and collar.* No really philosophical botanist or zoolo- gist, then, should venture to establish specific distinctions between two races, otherwise than provisionally, until he has been able to assure himself that the one may not be con- verted into the other by a change in external conditions. Characters which are of the most trivial kind in themselves, may be valid grounds of specific distinction, if they are nut liable to be thus affected ; on the other hand, characters which would be accepted in one group as sufficient for the separation of ge- nera, may be found totally inadequate in an- other for the discrimination of species, being liable to modification under a very slight change of external conditions. Every one is familiar with the changes which have been in- duced in plants by cultivation, — how a " sin- gle" flower is converted into a "double" one; how the spines, prickles, and thorns covering the surface may be obliterated (a change which was fancifully, but not impro- perly, termed by Linnaeus " the taming of wild fruits ") ; and how the wavy leaves may be- come thick and fleshy (as in the change of the Brassica oleracea into the cabbage), or the slender flower-stalks may be converted into a substantial mass (as in the conversion of the same plant into the cauliflower). These changes do not, as some have alleged, throw the least doubt on the " permanence of spe- cies," or favour the doctrine of " transmuta- tion " in the slightest degree ; for however wide may be limits of variation, each species has its limits; and so far from having per- manently advanced, under the influence of * See Mr. P. A. Knight's Paper on the Heredi- tary and Acquired Instincts of Animals, in the Phi- losophical Transactions for 1837. cultivation, to a superior type of structure, the plants thus modified will all return to their original form, when subjected to their original conditions. Numerous instances might be cited from the British Flora alone, in which the most experienced botanists are in dis- agreement upon the question of specific unity or diversity, simply because they have not yet ascertained the limits to the variations which the same plant may present, when growing under a variety of external conditions ; and the difficulty is yet greater when British and Continental species are compared, the variety of external conditions being greater, and the amount of allowance which should be made for their influence being known in but a few cases. The same may be said of Animals ; particularly of those on which the influence of domestication has been brought to bear. Upon this point, however, we shall defer en- larging, until the next head of the inquiry has been considered. 3. A tendency to variation exists in many races, which manifests itself rather in modi- fications of the specific type presented in the course of successive generations, than in the alterations induced by external agencies in the individuals of one generation. Thus we find that the offspring of any one pair do not all precisely agree among themselves, or with their parents, in bodily conformation or in psychical character ; but that individual differ- ences (as they are termed) exist among them. Now, as this tendency to variation cannot be clearly traced to any influence of external cir- cumstances, it is commonly distinguished by the term ' spontaneous ;' but there is much to favour the belief, that such variations are attributable to agencies operating either on both parents, previous to their intercourse, or at the time of coition, or to influences acting on the female during the period of utero-gestation.* For it may be uniformly observed, that those animals exhibit the greatest tendency to this ' spontaneous ' va- riation, which present the greatest constitu- tional adaptiveness to a variety of external conditions. And there are many cases in which it seems pretty clear, that the cause of this variation must be looked for in that com- bination of influences, which is known under the general term domestication. Thus it may be stated as a general fact, that the varieties of colour so remarkable in domesticated races, tend to disappear when these races return in any considerable degree towards their primi- tive wild state. This has been especially noticed in the horses, cattle, sheep, hogs, and dogs, introduced by the Spaniards into South America ; and the observation has been con- firmed in other parts of the globe, showing that there is nothing peculiar to the climate of that country, which brings about the altera- * As these modifications are witnessed in domes- ticated birds no less than in mammals, it is obvious that the latter source of influence is excluded in their case; and we must fall back upon the pro- bability of a change in the constitution of the pa- rents, previously to the generative act.