1433 VESICUL/E SEMINALES. becomes of the secretion of the testicles when it is not used ? Another question also requires to be answered. The semen, as will be seen by referring to Art. Semen, seems to be a highly elaborated secretion. There is none amongst the various secretions of the body that seems to require so much time for its elaboration. Not only have cells to be formed and thrown off, as in the case of other secretions, but, after they are liberated in the tubules of the testis, nuclei have to divide, nucleoli to multiply, and each division of the nucleoli to become, through a gradual adoles- cence, an adult spermatozoon. This surely requires time ; how can such a fluid be im- provised at any moment when copulation may take place ? To the first of these questions I would answer, the testicles do not go on continually secreting, but stop when there is no occasion for their action; as I have convinced myself by observing, that the vas deferens is gene- rally found empty in men who have been long removed from the society of women. Hunter arrives at the conclusion, that the vas deferens and testicles can and do reabsorb the unused semen, and that conclusion it is im- possible to avoid, because there are many instances on record of the vasa deferentia being imperforate in a subject whose testicles were in full functional activity. But involun- tary emissions in sleep are most probably the usual and natural means whereby the burden of unappropriated secretion is got rid of. The answer to the second question is as follows. There is strong reason to believe that man, in common with brutes, is subject to a periodic rut, an alternation of sexual excitement and quiescence, occurring at short intervals. During the period of excitement spermatozoa are becoming rapidly adult, the testicles and their ducts are full of semen, the individual is in the condition of a fish with a full milt, or a bird or stag with enlarged tes- ticles. He now instintively seeks the society of women (these things are not so much mat- ters of chance as is generally imagined, and the testicles may be blameable for much of what is usually ascribed to the heart). Lascivious dalliance increases his excitement, and all is ready for the copulative act. There is reason to believe that one vas deferens alone furnishes the semen for one copulation, the other vas supplies another emission ; but after a few encounters, some of them perhaps without effect, a period of rest is required to secrete and perfect a fresh store of semen. The duct of the testicle is the only reservoir, and for that reason, combined with the unlikeli- hood of the impromptu secretion of semen, I formed the opinion cited above, that the quantity of actual secretion of the testicles emitted in one copulation is probably so small as to require augmentation by some congenial fluid. Hunter remarks,— " We have a presump- tive proof that the semen can be absorbed in the body of the testicle and in the epididydi- mis, and that the vesiculas secrete a mucus which they are capable of absorbing when it cannot be made use of. We may likewise infer from what has been said, that the se- men is not retained in reservoirs after it is secreted, and kept there till it is used, but that it is secreted at the time, in consequence of certain affections of the mind stimulating the testicles to this action ; for we find that if lascivious ideas are excited in the mind, and the paroxysm is afterwards prevented from coming on, the testicles become pain- ful and swelled, from, we may suppose, the quantity of semen secreted, and the in- creased action of the vessels, which pain and swelling is removed immediately upon the paroxysm being brought on and the semen evacuated ; but, if that does not take place, the action of the vessels will still be kept up, and the pain in the testicles in general conti- nue till the paroxysm and evacuation of the semen is brought on, to render the act com- plete; without which a stop cannot be so quickly put to the action of the vessels that produce the secretion, nor the parts be al- lowed so easily to resume their natural state. There is at this time no sensation of any kind felt in the seat of the vesiculae seminales, which shows that the action is in the testicles, and in them alone. The pain in the testicles, in consequence of being filled with semen and,' of the action being incomplete, is sometimes so considerable as to make it necessary to produce an evacuation of the semen to relieve the patient." Hunter was not aware of the highly elaborated character of the seminal fluid, or he would probably not have so readily accepted the idea of the semen being secreted " at the time." The " lascivious ideas which he mentions are probably an effect or conco- mitant of seminal repletion rather than a cause, yet becoming, perhaps, an additional cause in their turn. Many interesting arguments in relation to this subject might doubtless be derived from the manner of copulation of different animals; but this is an occurrence in the natural history of species which authors have entirely left unnoticed, probably from feelings of delicacy. This want is felt as a great desideratum by the comparative anato- mist, in investigating any of the accessory parts of generation, where the manner of coition unavoidably forces itself upon our consideration, malgie the delicacy, which everybody feels, but which the physiologist is bound to suppress when he handles such sub- jects. As a sample of such arguments I may adduce the following. The prolonged coition of the dog, which is destitute of vesiculae, was formerly much dwelt upon in support of the pre-Hunterian view of tne receptacle-function of these sacs. But is the act prolonged in every animal destitute of vesiculae ? 1 have been told that the copulation of cats is very quickly completed ; and cats are as destitute of vesiculae as dogs. On the other hand, the boar is very long in coition, although his vesi- culae are very large and complicated. Such reasonings on the facts of comparative anatomy