VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1353 Fig. 831. Senegal Cliief. (From a portrait taken by an officer in the expedition of Capt. Laplace.) opposite sides of Africa, are the high plains of Enarea and Kaffa, where the inhabitants are said to be fairer than the natives of Southern Europe. So, again, whenever we hear of a Negro state, whose members have attained any considerable degree of improvement in their social condition, we constantly find that their physical characters deviate considerably from the strongly-marked or exaggerated type of the Negro ; such are the Ashanti, the Sulima, and the Dahomans of Western Africa, of which last nation the king is de- scribed by a recent visitor (Lieut. Forbes) as many shades removed from black in his com- plexion, as having quite an intellectual expression of countenance, and as possess- ing a remarkable symmetry of figure. It is obvious, too, from the account given by the same observer*, that a very complex social system has developed itself among this people, and that they have made considerable progress in the arts of life, although this has hitherto been only turned to account in furthering the traffic in slaves, of which Dahomey is now the centre, so far as the Slave Coast is concerned. The highest civilization, and the greatest im- provement in physical characters, are to be found in those nations which have adopted the Mohammedan religion. This was intro- duced, three or four centuries since, into the eastern portion of Central Africa; and it appears that the same people who were then existing in the savage condition still exhibited * Dahomey and the Dahomans, 1851. by the pagan nations further south, have now adopted many of the arts and institutions of civilised society, subjecting themselves to governments, practising agriculture, and dwelling in towns of considerable extent, some containing even as many as 30,000 inhabitants — a circumstance which implies a considerable advancement in industry, and in the resources of subsistence. The languages of the Negro nations, so far as they are known, seem to belong to one group'; although there is a great difficulty in becoming ac- quainted with them; in consequence of the entire deficiency of written records. The same cause would of course give a want of fixity to their vocabulary : and thus the dia- lects of two nations descended from a com- mon original, would be likely soon to diverge from each other. Still they all present, so far as is known, the same grade of develop- ment, and the same grammatical forms ; and various proofs of their affinity with the Semi- tic tongues have been developed, these being derived from similarity alike of roots and of construction. The Semitic affinity of the Negro nations is further indicated in a very remarkable manner, by the existence of a variety of superstitions and usages among the Negroes of the Western Coast, which prevail also among the Nilotic races whose Semitic relations are most clear, as well as among branches of the Semitic stock itself; this is especially the case with the rite of circum- cision, which seems to be universally practised throughout the Negro area. The southern portion of the African con- tinent is inhabited by a group of nations which speak various dialects of the Kaffre tongue, and which recede more or less decidedly from the Negro type in physical characters. Our acquaintance with them, however, is at pre- sent very limited ; the interior of South Africa having been as yet scarcely at all explored by- civilised man; and the only people well known to us being those of a few points on the coast, such as Kongo on one side, and Mozambique on the other ; and those of the southernmost extremity, or the region of the Cape. As we pass southwards from the equatorial region, we find a gradual softening down of the proper Negro characters ; and this is greater according to the degree of civi- lization, and the general improvement in ex- ternal conditions. Thus, in the people of Kongo (fig. 832), and in those of Mozam- bique and its neighbourhood (Jigs. 833, 834), although the hair is woolly and the colour black, yet the skulls are more vaulted (Jig. 833) and capacious anteriorlv, anil have much less of the prognathous cha- racter ; the nose is much more prominent, the lips are less thick, and the general expression is milder and more intellectual, than that of the natives of Guinea. When we arrive at the true Kaff'res, the race of warlike nomadic people which inhabits the eastern parts of South Africa to the northward of the Hot- tentots, so great a departure from the Negro type presents itself, that many travellers have