939 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY articulation. When one condyle only is dislocated, the chin is thrust forwards and towards one side —that, namely, on which the condyle remains in place. The coronoid process of the dis- located side forms a prominence even more conspicuous than when both condyles are displaced, but the mouth is not so wide open. There is, of course, the same depression in front of the ear, and the same flatness of the masseteric region. Congenital malformation. Dr. R. W. Smith of Dublin, in his Treatise on Fractures and Dislocations,* gives a detailed account of the dissection of a highly interesting case of " Con- genital luxation of the inferior maxilla." The malformation affected one side only, — the right,— and consisted mainly of an absence, or arrest of development of the condyle, the only vestige of which was a small process hooked inwards at its apex. This process did not touch the temporal bone by a quarter of an inch, and neither it nor the surface oppo- site to it presented any articular cartilage, but were both simply invested with periosteum. There was no trace of an interarticular fibro- cartilage, nor of a synovial sac, and the ex- ternal lateral ligament sloped downwards and forwards instead of downwards and backwards. The glenoid cavity did not exist, or rather the inferior root of the zygoma, which really forms the glenoid cavity, was not developed. There was conspicuous atrophy of the whole of this side of the face in respect of the bones — temporal, right half of the body and right ramus of the inferior maxilla, malar, su- perior maxillary, and even the right half of the sphenoid, — and muscles, but the nerves were as large as their fellows. The most re- markable of the peculiarities of the surround- ing parts, and that which clearly demonstrated the abnormal condition not to be the result of injury or disease, was an extreme shortness of the zygomatic process of the the temporal and a compensatory unusual length of that of the malar bone. The former was only half an inch long, whilst the latter was nearly twice as long as that of the other side. During the lifetime of this patient, who was an idiot, it was observed that one side of his countenance did not match the other, and that the dis- parity was much increased when he opened his mouth. He was often observed to have spasmodic twitching of the abnormal side of his face. Disease. — Chronic rheumatic arthritis occa- sionally affects this articulation. Both joints are usually affected by it, but sometimes it attacks the joint of one side only. It is most common in elderly subjects. When it attacks the young or middle aged, it is more rapid, accompanied with more pain, and more likely to involve the neck of the condyle and the ramus of the jaw. The pain is often very severe but varia- ble, apparently influenced by meteorological changes. The lymphatic glands in the neigh- bourhood of the diseased joint are much prone * A Treatise on Fractures in the Vicinity of Joints and on Certain Forms of accidental and congenital Dislocations. Dublin, 1847. 8vo. to enlargement; and sometimes the enlarged condyle can be felt as a bony tumour just in front of the ear. The chin is thrust forward, mesially when both joints are affected, and towards the healthy side, as well as forwards, when only one is diseased. The motion of the jaw is considerably impaired. On dissection, the condyle, in cases of this affection, is gen- erally found to be large and broad, but some- times conical, rough, and devoid of cartilage. Ivory or porcellanous deposit, so common in other joints when affected with chronic rheu- matic arthritis, is but rarely met witli in this; those abnormal ossific concretions in and around the joints, which are so constantly met with in the disease in question in other situations, have also never been found in the temporo-maxillary joint. The interarticular fibro-cartilage had disappeared in every case of this affection which has been dissected and published. The glenoid cavity is enlarged, divested of its articular cartilage, and presents a roughened, abnormal surface. All indica- tion of the disease stops suddenly at the glas- serian fissure, and at the spheno-temporal suture, and the enlargement of the glenoid cavity takes place at the expense of the lower root of the zygoma which generally becomes entirely absorbed. In the report of the proceedings of the Pathological Socety of London in the Medical Gazette of November 30. 1849, there is an account of a highly interesting case of necrosis of the condyle, back part of the ramus, and angle of the lower jaw in a scrofulous boy. The portion of necrosed bone, which was ex- hibited to the society, was removed many years before, by Mr. Keate, who also had examined the patient, grown to a healthy man, two years before the date of the com- munication. As far as could be ascertained by external investigation, the lost portion of bone had been perfectly restored. There was no deformity, and no impairment of motion. There are two other similar cases on record ; one by Desault, in which the whole ramus, with the condyle and coronoid process, were removed, the other by Mr. Syme, in which the condyle and ramus were necrosed. In both these cases, also, the lost bone was per- fectly restored to all external appearance, but there is no record of a dissection of such a case. In some cases which are on record, where the whole of the lower jaw, with both its condyles, has been removed, its place has been supplied by condensed fibrous tissue, but there has been no reproduction of bone. Anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary joint is a very rare occurrence. There is, however, one specimen of it in the Pathological series of the Museum of the London College of Surgeons. The fusion of the two bones is complete, as is shown in the preparation by a vertical, side to side, section through the situation of the quondam joint. This section shows that a perfectly normal-looking cancel- lous structure, shelled over by a layer of dense osseous tissue, is continued from the temporal to the inferior maxillary bone, and exhibits no