1267 4 m 2 URETIIIIA. and extended half an inch back, and was so tight that it scarcely admitted the finest probe. My friend Curling also met with a case of stricture, attended with retention of urine. Being foiled in the introduction of the ca- theter, he was compelled to puncture the bladder in the direction of the canal beneath the pubis. The disease had arisen from the contusion to which the urethra had been sub- jected in a protracted labour, which had taken place twenty-eight years before. Since that time the woman had always experienced dif- ficulty in making water, and had twice suffered retention, but no catheter could ever be passed. The aperture of the meatus was large, and there was great induration around : a small catheter was passed about an inch and a half, but could not be made to enter the bladder. The bladder was punctured, and be- tween thirty and forty ounces of urine drawn off. The stricture was afterwards dilated with bougies. other mammiferous animals ; and it is amongst the Carnivora, in whom the penis is com- paratively short, as the cat and civet, that it appears to bear the largest proportion to the other part of the canal. Cuvier denominates this pelvic part of the canal the muscular por- tion, because it is usually surrounded by a muscular layer. Thus in man and the apes this is especially remarkable on the sides of the prostate, where the levator ani and leva- tor prostate are situated. In the rest of the mammifera the muscular layer is circular. In the Cheiroptera, mole, hedgehog, and cat, it is remarkably thick ; in the dog, civet, and sarigue it is thin ; it is scarcely perceptible in the marmot, where there is scarcely any thing more than a tendinous covering. In the Rodents it is generally of moderate thickness ; but in the Pachydermia and Ruminants it is of great thickness. Cuvier suggests that the object of this mus- cular layer is to expel the urine and seminal secretion, by forcibly contracting the first por tion of the urethra; and hence it is found so The comparative anatomy of the urethra fully developed in those animals whose penis COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. lias been most carefully examined by Cuvier and I have borrowed largely from his cele- brated Logons d'Anatomie Comparee, in my description. Cuvier divides the "urethra into two por- tions ; the first extends from the orifice of the bladder to a short distance anterior to the prostate, whilst the second is continued thence to the orifice at the glans.' In the first portion of the canal in mam- miferous animals generally,—that is, in what is termed in man the prostatic portion,— we find the verumontanum surrounded by prostatic ducts and terminations ofvasa ejaculatoria ; whilst in many the sinus prostaticus is of an enormous size : this is especially the case in the elephant. In many animals we find temporary lon- gitudinal folds of membrane : these are, however, permanent in some, as in the mar- mot : in this animal as many as twelve pass off on each side, and, enclosing small spaces, render the canal exceedingly irregular, and thus retard the flow of urine and semen. is long, as in the Ruminants, and in those in whom that organ is short, as in the cat ; for in the first it is requisite to force the fluid along the lengthened penis, in the latter it becomes necessary to expel it beyond the limits of the penis. He says that this species of ejacula- tion is requisite, when any obstacle exists in the urethra, to the free discharge of semen, as is the case in the porpoise and the dolphin, where the membranous part of the urethra, being wholly surrounded by the prostate, forms an acute angle with the remainder of the canal, and becomes considerably con- tracted at that part. In these animals there is a thick muscle, attached behind to the front of the corpora cavernosa ; the fibres of which, directed backwards, cover the prostate gland, and pass as far as the under part of the neck of the bladder. The office of this is neces- sarily to overcome the difficulty in the expul- sion of the contents of the urethra, arising from the peculiarity just mentioned. In many animals, as in the Ruminants and Pachydermata, the communication between With respect to the comparative length of the former part of the urethra and the second this part of the canal there is great variety. Thus in man and the apes it is short, and surrounded by the prostate. In the makis it is long and slender; it is long in the Chciroptea; and of medium length in the bears. In the hedgehog it is about one third the entire length; it is more than half in the civet, cat, sarigue, kangaroo, and phasco- lome; it scarcely reaches this length in the giant kangaroo ; and is of less extent in the dog. It is actually longer, and its diameter is larger, in the marmot; scarcely half the length in the rat and guinea-pig; somewhat less than half in the hare; short, and not a quar- ter of the entire length in the squirrel; it is not more than a third or fourth in the ele- phant, Pachydermata, Solidungu/a, Ruminants, the dolphin, and porpoise. It is usually re- latively shorter in man and the 'apes than in all or spongy portion is by no means direct ; but it takes place at the superior part of the latter by a sort of opening at a short distance from its commencement: this is the case also in the wild boar. The spongy portion begins under this condition in the form of a cul-de-sac of varied diameter,—a sort of bulb, — into which the semen is received after it has traversed the muscular portion of the urethra, whilst the secretion of Cowper's glands escapes into its sides. In other cases, as in the squirrels and marmots, this cul-de-sac receives only the orifices of these glands, and continues in the form of a short canal, which opens into the urethra either at the middle of the penis, or at a short distance beyond. The urethra in this instance passes over it, and they are both surrounded by the vascular tissue investing the bulb.