TERATOLOGY. 973 example, the heart is often single, or even shows signs of having been arrested in its developement; and, on the other hand, in the more nearly single forms, the heart is usually either partially or completely double. The histories of the cases of anterior and lateral duplicity, which I have given in my mono- graph, furnish abundant proofs of this. Nor is there any closer relation between the con- dition of any other internal organ and that of the exterior, than there is between it and the heart; for in nearly complete external dupli- city any of the internal organs may be single ; when there are two trunks indeed, the urinary and genital organs are commonly double ; but as for the stomach, the liver, and the lungs, the correspondence between them and exter- nal duplicity follows no other rule than that where there are two necks there are two tracheas and two oesophagi, and as a con- sequence the lungs and stomach are also dou- bled. When in like manner the stomach is double, each has its spleen and pancreas; but the state of the liver is very variable ; some- times there are two, sometimes but one with a single or double gall-bladder; and these differences often occur in the same form of external duplicity. Parts placed on the surface of the body are more liable to multiplication than the internal organs, and duplicity of a single part is there- fore much less rare than the formation of a complete double body. The upper half of the body is more frequently doubled than the lower, probably in consequence of its earlier developement and the admitted preponderance of the upper parts of the body. The union of the two bodies takes place only between similar parts. The more each of the bodies is developed, the less is the bond of union between them, as the examples of the Siamese twins and the Hungarian sisters sufficiently prove. And with this law is connected an- other, namely, that the probability of grow- in" up is greater in the same proportion as the b-ond of union is smaller, and the coin- cident fusion of internal organs less, as these two and other double monsters prove. So also the further the several organs are from the situation at which the bodies are united, the more perfect they are, — one body is almost always less developed than the other: in the heteradelphs this is al- ways the case, and in others the difference between the two bodies, though less evident, is scarcely less constant than in them. There are not commonly any signs of a double monster having been at first two individuals. For except in the cases of posterior and supe- rior duplicity, and some singular examples of attachment of the umbilical cord of one foetus to the head or the body of the other, there is never more than one placenta and one cord, and the latter usually contains only a single set of vessels, which divide when they reach the abdomen. And even in the posterior and superior varieties of duplicity it is not yet certain that there are two placenta?; in some cases the placenta was positively single, and in the remainder it has very rarely been ex- amined. A last general rule is that in double monsters the twins are of the same sex. There is no well proved exception to this important rule. What explanation can be given, after all these facts, of the origin of double monsters ? On this subject, three hypotheses ought to be mentioned : 1. The double monster has been supposed to have proceeded from two distinct embryos, which have become united in the course of development; 2. It has been held to have originated in a single germ, which has become double, or has been subdivided ; and 3. The germ has been regarded as abnormally compound from the first, implying that the organs and parts composing the double mon- ster are at once produced irom this germ, without either separation or coalition of its parts other than belong to the natural process of developement. On the comparative merits of the first and second hypotheses, as parts of the general doctrine of monsters, one of the most interesting physiological discussions extant is recorded in the Memoires de I'Aca- demie des Sciences de Paris, between 1724 and 1743. The chief disputants were Lemery and Winslow ; the contest lasted nineteen years; it engaged the attention of all anato- mists, and called forth writings by Haller and a crowd of authors of less note, and was only terminated by the death of Lemery. Every argument that could be founded on the know- ledge of those days was brought forward, and the subject was, for the time, utterly exhausted; but the facts accumulated in later years have furnished such volumes of additional evidence, that the same question, between original and acquired monstrosity, as far as it relates to double monsters, may even now claim to be discussed. It is certain that two ova may be formed in one Graafian vesicle (Von Baer, Bischoff, Bidder). The equally well-known fact, that the common fowl sometimes produces double- yolked eggs, naturally led at one time to the opinion that the formation of double monsters might be attributed to the developement and subsequent union of the embryo in each yolk ; an opinion which has been adopted by some on very insufficient grounds, as it does not appear to be warranted by any direct observ- ations made upon the result of the incubation of double-yolked eggs, and is at variance with much of what is known of the structure and mode of union of the two embryos composing a double monster.* * I have here made use of the words of Professor Allen Thompson, who, in a remarkable memoir upon double monsters, published July, 1844, in the London and Edinburgh Montldy Journal, full}' entered into the topic, and illustrated the genesis of double mon- sters by some very interesting observations. I lament that he was not acquainted with my mono- graph upon the same subject, nor with the succinct account which Mr. Paget has given of it in the British and Foreign Medical Review for October, 1841. He would have found in it a great deal in corroboration of his own opinions, in which I uni- versally agree with him.