990 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). and probably incapable of performing their natural functions ; and that this imperfection prevents the disposition for descent taking place. That they are more defective even than those which are late in passing to the scrotum, he infers from the circumstance, that in quadrupeds, the testicle that has reached the scrotum is considerably larger than the one which remains in the abdomen. Mr. Hunter had seen only one case in the human subject where both testicles continued in the abdomen, but this proved an exception to the above observation, since we are led to con- clude that they were perfectly formed, as the person had all the powers and passions of a man.* Professor Owen in commenting upon these observations, states, " It seems remark- able that with this experience Mr. Hunter should have formed from inconclusive analogy, and promulgated, an opinion tending to occa- sion so much unhappiness as that which attri- butes exceeding imperfection and probable incapacity of performing their natural func- tions to testes which in the human subject are retained within the abdomen. That there is nothing in such a situation which neces- sarily tends to impair their efficiency is evident, from the number of animals in which they constantly form part of the abdominal vis- cera ; and in those in which the testes na- turally pass into a scrotum, their continuance in the abdomen, ^according to our author's own observation, is accompanied only with a difference of size or shape; now we may readily suppose that this may influence the quantity, but not necessarily the quality, of the secretion." There are very few accounts * on record of the dissection of undescended testicles. In a case, in which M. Cloquet found the left testicle situated within the abdomen, the gland was well formed, and of the same size as the right, which had de- scended into the scrotum. The parts taken from an apprentice of Sir A. Cooper, who unfortunately committed suicide in conse- quence of the infirmity, are preserved in the Museum of Guy's Hospital. I have ex- amined the preparation ; and the testicles, which are both within the abdomen, close to the internal ring, appear to be nearly, if not quite, the natural size, and it is stated that the ducts contained semen. In a lad, aged nineteen, whose left testicle was found, by Dr. Bright, within the abdomen, near the brim of the pelvis, the gland was considerably smaller than natural, but the ducts and se- creting structure were quite perfect.")" These are the only cases of testicles situated within the abdomen in which we have any account of the anatomical condition of the gland. In addition to the evidence they afford of the ca- pability of testicles thus placed to exercise their functions, may be adduced the case of Mr. Hunter, just alluded to, in which a person, both of whose testicles continued in the ab- domen, had all the powers and passions of * Works by Palmer, vol. iv. p. 18. f Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 258. a man ; and a case recorded by Mr. Poland, of a man so formed, who was aged twenty- nine. He had all the signs of virility, had married twice, and was the father of two children.* On the other hand, Mr. Wilson mentions the case of a young man, twenty-five years of age, whose testicles never descended. He had some beard, and not an unmanly ap- pearance ; but although an imprudent, and in some things a dissipated person, he had never shown the least desire for women, or disposition for sexual intercourse.")" John West, a lad, aged sixteen, died in the London Hospital, in a state of universal anasarca. There was no appearance of beard, and only a few hairs were scattered over the pubes. My attention was particularly directed to the state of the genital organs, by observing that the scrotum, which was greatly distended with serous effusion, was not fully developed on the right side. I found the right testicle within the abdomen, about an inch and a half above the internal ring. It was very small, not larger than that of a child two years of age; and on cutting into it, the gland pre- sented the granular appearance usually re- marked at that early period. Passage of the Testicle into the Perineum. — Mr. Hunter first observed that the testicle in changing its situation does not always pre- serve a proper course towards the scrotum, there being instances of its taking another direction and passing into the perineum. How this is brought about, he remarks, it is difficult to say: it may possibly be occasioned by something unusual in the construction of the scrotum, or more probably, by a peculiarity in that of the perineum itself. For it is not easy to imagine how the testicle could make its way to the parts about the perineum, if these were in a perfectly natural state. He met with two instances of this imperfection. Many years ago a little boy, one of whose testicles had thus deviated from its proper- course was brought to the London Hospital. The gland was lodged in the perineum at the root of the scrotum. M. Ricord met with this singular anomaly in two instances. M. Vidal (de Cassis) observed it in two brothers : their father was exempt from it. The testicle abnormally placed was smaller than the other.\ The irregularity is exceedingly rare, and the above cases are all with which I am acquainted. Passage of the Testicle through the Crural Ring. — M. Vidal relates the case of a man, one of whose testicles, instead of passing out of the abdomen at the inguinal canal, made its exit at the crural ring. The organ was mounted upon the abdomen like a crural hernia. A portion of intestine traversed the inguinal canal, forming a rupture on that side. § I know of only one other instance of this * Guy's Hospital Eeports. Second series, vol. i. pp. 162, 1G3. t Lectures on the Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 408. t Traits de Pathologie exteme, t. v. p. 432. 2eme, edit. § Ibid p. 431.