879 TEETH. and teeth, that close the posterior aperture of the mouth. The superior dentigerous pharyngeals (figs. 5.58. and 565.) present the Ibrm of an elon- gated, vertical, inequilateral, triangular plate ; the upper and posterior margin is sharp and concave; the upper and anterior margin forms a thickened articular surface, convex from side to side, and playing in a corresponding groove or concavity upon the base of the skull ; the inferior boundary of the triangle is the longest, and also the broadest; it is convex in the antero-posterior direction, and flat from side to side. It is on this surface that the teeth are implanted, and in most species they form two rows ; the outer one consisting of very small, the inner one of large dental plates, which are set nearly transversely across the lower surface of the pharyngeal bone, and are in close apposition, one behind the other : their internal angles are produced beyond the margin of the bone, and interlock with those of the adjoining bone when the pharyngeals are in their natural position ; the smaller denticles of the outer row are set in the ex- ternal interspaces of those of the inner row. The single inferior pharyngeal bone con- sists principally of an oblong dentigerous plate, of the form represented in fig. 3, pi. 51, of my "Odontography;" its breadth somewhat exceeds that of the conjoined dentigerous surface of the pharyngeals above, and it is excavated to correspond with their convexity. This dentigerous plate is prin- cipally supported by a strong, slightly curved, transverse, osseous bar, the extremities of which expand into thick obtuse processes for the implantation of the triturating muscles. A longitudinal crest is continued downwards and forwards from the middle line of the inferior pharyngeal plate, anterior to the transverse bar, to which the protractor mus- cles are attached. A longitudinal row of small oval teeth alternating with the large lamelliform teeth, like those of the superior pharyngeals, bounds the dentigerous plate on each side; the inter- mediate space is occupied exclusively by the larger lamelliform or wedge-shaped teeth, set vertically in the bone, and arranged trans- versely in alternate and pretty close set series. The dental plates are developed in wide and deep cavities in the substance of the posterior part of the lower, and of the an- terior part of the upper pharyngeal bones. Each denticle is developed in its proper cap- sule, which contains an enamel-forming pulp and a dentinal pulp, in close cohesion with each other and with the thin external capsule. The teeth exhibit progressive stages of form- ation as they approach the posterior part of the upper and the anterior part of the lower pharyngeal bones : as their formation advances to completion they become soldered together by ossification of their respective capsules into one compound tooth, which soon be- comes anchylosed by ossification of the den- tinal pidp to the pharyngeal hone itself. The dentine of the pharyngeal teeth of the Scarus consists of calcigerous tubes and a clear intermediate substance. The calcigerous tubes average a diameter of ^o-.tjott °' an i'1L'h, and are separated by interspaces equal to twice their own diameter. The course of these tubes is shown in fig. 558, d., in which they are exposed by a vertical section through the middle of two of the superior denticles. They all, on leaving the pulp-cavity, form a curve with the convexity turned towards the base of the tooth, and then bend slightly in the opposite direction; the sigmoid curve being most marked in the calcigerous tubes at the base of the denticles, whilst those to- wards the apex become longer and straighter. Besides the primary curvatures exemplified in the figure, each calcigerous tube is minutely undulated ; it dichotomises three or four times near its termination, sends off many fine lateral branches into the clear uniting substance, and finally terminates in a series of minute cells and inosculating loops at the line of junction with the enamel. This substance (fig. 558, <?.) is as thick as the dentine, and consists of a similar combination of minute tubes and a clear connecting sub- stance. The tubes may be described as com- mencing from the pheripheral surface of the tooth to which they stand at right angles, and, having proceeded parallel to each other halfway towards the dentine, they then begin to divide and subdivide, the branches crossing each other obliquely, and finally terminating in the cellular boundary between the enamel and dentine. The teeth which present this complex structure are successively developed at one extremity of the bone, in proportion as they are worn away at the other ; not, however, as Cuvier describes, from behind forwards, in both upper and lower pharyngeal bones, but in opposite directions in the opposite bones, the course of succession being from before backwards in the upper, and from behind forwards in the lower pharyngeal bones. In the progress of the attrition to which they are subjected, the thin coat of cement result- ing from the ossification of the capsule is first removed from the apex of the tooth, then the enamel constituting that apex, next the den- tine, and, finally, the coarse central cellular bone, supporting the hollow wedge-shaped tooth ; and thus is produced a triturating surface of four different substances of different degrees of density. The enamel, being the densest element, appears in the form of ellip- tical transverse ridges, inclosing the dentine and central bone ; and external to the enamel is the cement which binds together the dif- ferent denticles. There is a close analogy between the dental mass of the Scarus and the complicated grinders of the elephant, both in form, struc- ture, and in the reproduction of the compo- nent denticles in horizontal succession. But in the fish, the complexity of the triturating surface is greater than in the Mammal, since, from the mode in which the wedge-shaped denticles of the Scarus are implanted upon,