TONGUE 1139 4- d 2 is to be found. In the other forms we saw it continued over the whole compound organ as a thin indusium, covering in and concealing the secondary papillae under its smooth invest- ment, the scales being arranged parallel to the surface; but in the conical and filiform papillae we not only see the epithelium exist- ing in much greater quantity, but over each secondary papilla assuming a vertical arrange- ment, and, after continuing compact for some little distance, breaking up into a brush of hair-like processes {fig. 756.), the number coinciding with that of the secondary papilla?. Where the secondary papillas are few the hairs are few, where they are many the hairs are many, and each hair may be traced down, by following the line in which the epithelium is vertical, to each papilla. In fact, these pro- cesses are true hairs, and only differ from other hairs in being short, uncompact, imperfectly elaborated, and in having the imbrication retroverse instead of directed forwards; and the secondary papillae from which they spring are true hair papillas, differing only from ordi- nary hair papillae in being raised and grouped on a common pedicle instead of sunk in a proper follicle. In some cases the resemblance of these filaments to ordinary hair is very close indeed, as seen in Jig. 758. ; indeed in c Fig. 758. Ilalr-UUe processes offiliform papillcc. a, Mag. 150, 6 and c, 100 diameters. the chief difference is in the direction of the imbrication : in some morbid specimens I have seen it even closer. Now this difference in the arrangement of the epithelium on the different papilla? in- dicates, I think, a very important physiolo- gical distinction ; in one case we see the sen- tient papilla; covered by a thin layer of a fine epithelium, thinner over them than in the in- tervals between them ; in the other case we see each secondary papilla the seat of a rapid generation of epithelium that clothes the whole compound organ with a dense impene- trable brush of hairs : this latter arrangement seems as inconsistent with the possession of sensibility as the former seems adapted to it, and the difference would suggest to me the division of the papilla? into " sentient" and "protective ;" among the former I would class the circumvallate and the fungiform, among the latter the filiform and, with a certain qua- lification, the conical : but I shall return to this presently in speaking of the functions of these papilla?. The great difference between the filiform and conical forms is in the amount of the epithelium : in the filiform it is such as has just been described ; in the conical, the hairs are very short and thick, and terminate in an even plane almost as soon as they be- come separate, so that they have not at all a filamentary character. This epithelium is being constantly generated and as constantly thrown off* as is shown by the variation in the quantity of fur on the tongue from day to day. It is in these papilla? that the separation into two layers is best seen (Jig. 757. ef), and the appearances of this separation are such as to make me think that the method of desqua- mation is not by the shedding of individual scales, but by the throwing off of the upper layer, the under layer taking its place, itself to become divided into a deep-seated and su- perficial portion, and to be in turn thrown off as it grows older. The vascular supply of these papilla? is very abundant, as might be expected from the rapid nutrition that is taking place from their surface. The pigmentary character of the epithelium, at least under some circum- stances, has been already referred to. The simple papilla? are scattered beneath the apparently non-papillary surface behind the circumvallate, beneath the edges of the tongue, and on the under surface of its free portion, also among the conical and filiform ; in the former situation they resemble the secondary papilla? of the circumvallate and fungiform, in the epithelium being continued smoothly over them ; in the latter, those of the filiform, each being the base of a hair- like process. The situation of these pa- pilla?, their number and arrangement, is very well shown by injection, when the individual loops of capillaries may be seen passing up from the sub-mucous plexus at regular inter- vals, one to each papilla. The method in which the conical papilla? of the upper sur- face pass into the simple of the under, is this : — the ridges on the side of the tongue, to which reference has already been made, con- sist of fused conical papilla? arranged in linear series vertical to the edge, and, like them, crowned with secondary papilla? ; as they pass down the edge towards the under surface they become shallower, so that by the time they have reached that surface, the secondary pa- pilla?, instead of being elevated, are sessile, and immediately subtended by the cutis, This is the true nature of those vertical ridges on the edge of the tongue described by Bichat, Soemmering, and many other anatomists. Structure of papilla.— The nature of the true papillary structure, i. e. the contents of the projection of basement membrane, seems