1419 VESICULA PROSTATICA. corresponding vas deferens. Its cavity is that of a canal, but not so wide a one as might be guessed from the exterior thickness of the body ; and it opens by a distinct aper- ture on the verumontanum. Pinnipedia.— The genitals of a young male seal, probably Phoca vitulina, were examined by me. Here I saw a scarcely visible linear fold, which led to a longish Weberian organ of about two lines in size. The fold lay close behind a small ridge-shaped verumontanum, on which were the orifices of the vasa defe- rentia, situated close to each other. As in the dog, the organ is situated partly in front of, partly beneath, a prostate, which in form and development also corresponds with that gland in the dog. Marsupialia. — In Didelphys Virginiana the only animal of this order who.se male genitals I had, no trace of the Weberian corpuscle was present. Rudcnlla. — The Weberian organ showed mantis, and Hypudceus ampMbitts, I have looked for it in vain. But certainly the My- o.vus Vitela, Dipus JEgyptiacus and Cricelus vulgaris exhibited a single small longitudinally- folded verumontanum, which, from its situa- tion between the two orifices of the vasa de- ferentia, must have been the opening of a Weberian organ : but this structure iself, on account of its sheer minuteness and hidden situation, eluded the further searches, which were made in only a few individuals. In Cavia cobayn the Weberian organ is, as I described it some time since*, a small roundish vesicle, scarcely a line in size, which has a bilobed extremity, and, as in Macro- scelides, a constricted neck, which opens into the uro-genital canal between the two seminal ducts. The Weberian organ of the rabbit and hare is very much larger. It was formerly known to the older zootomists under the name of the azygous seminal vesicle f, and has only received a more accurate description and ex- Fie. 877. Weberian Organ of the Beaver (after Weber.)% ti, d, rasa deferentia; I, b, Weberian organ; c, c, prostate; d, d, seminal vesicles. great variations in occurrence, size, and shape. In Sciurus vulgaris, Taniias striata *, Spcrmo- philus at'tllus, in Mus tftuscidus and dectt- * The Cowper's glands of this animal are cylin- drical structures of very considerable size (almost half an inch long) : they have knot-shaped thicken- ings at their end, and are rolled up in a coil around this extremity. The prostate consists of two large gland lobes which have the form of a hammer. planation through the researches of Huschke and Weber. In the rabbit this organ attains a length of from one to one and a half inches, so that it * Zur Anatomic, &c. p. 104. t See fig. 281. Art. Rodentta, Vol. IV. p. 393. (Rymer Jones.) t This engraving is copied from the " Zusiitze," Sec.