4 g i TUNIC ATA. I I'M Fig. 770. Diazona violacea, mign circumscription ; animals sometimes scat- tered, sometimes arranged in a quincunx; branchial orifice circular, without distinct rays ; anal orifice very minute and indistinct ; abdominal viscera pushed up by the side of the thorax. GenusLeptoclinum, Milne-Edwards.—Com- mon body sometimes coriaceous, sometimes gelatinous, thin, sessile and incrusting ; sys- tems few ; individuals arranged irregularly around common cloacal cavities ; abdomen peduncled, short, smaller than the thorax. The tribe Botryllina (les Botrylliens, Milne- Edwards) comprises those compound Asci- dians that are united in sy stems around common excretory cavities or cloaca;, and whose bodies are not divided into a distinct thorax and abdomen, the viscera being pushed forward on the side of the branchial cavity, and form- ing with the thorax an ovoid mass. Genus Botryllwi, Gaertner ; synonyms, Al- ci/oniitm, Auct., Polycyelus, Lamarck. — Com- mon body gelatinous or cartilaginous, sessile and incrusting ; systems numerous, pro- minent, round or star-shaped, with central cavities; individuals, six to twenty in each system, lying horizontally with the vent far from the branchial orifice; branchial orifice simple (7%. 771.). Genus Botrylloidcs, Milne-Edwards. — This genus resembles the foregoing in most respects, except that the stars formed by the systems of animals are irregular and ramifying ; the cloaca; being prolonged into the common mass as irregular internal channels, on each side of which the individuals are placed in linear series, instead of having a simple star- like arrangement around the cloaca?, as in jBotryllus. The animals of Botrylloides, more- over, have a nearly vertical position, and their orifices are closely approximate {fig. 783.). We should perhaps also refer to the group of the BvtryUidce, an obscure form, first no- fted. {After Samgny.} ticed by Molina*, and subsequeniiy named Vyura by Blainville, and considered by the latter to form a link between the simple and compound Ascidians. M. Blainville gives the following characteristics. Fig. 771. Botryllus violaceus. Two of the star-like systems, mag- nified. {After Milne-Edwards.) a, a, common test; b, b, b, some of the branchial ori- fices ; c, the common anal orifice of one of the sj'Stems. Genus Vyura, Blainville.—A pyriform body, with two small short tubes, occupying a cell in the external envelope, and forming, by its union with 10 to 12 individuals, a kind of poly- morphous mass somewhat resembling honey- comb, apparently without any external orifice. * Saggio snlla Historia natuvale del Chili. Bo- logna, 1782, 4to.