952 TERATOLOGY. Fig. 604. The same Region armed with an Apparatus for the reception and evacuation of Urine. c. Ectopia vesica; urinaria?. — The smallest degree of deformity is when the urinary blad- der remains intact, but lies in an opening in the wall of the hypogastric region. It is ecto- pia vesica; urinaria?, of which a representation is given in Jig. 605.; and for more details I refer to my " Tabulae ad illustrandum embryo- genesin,'' etc., Tab. xxx. Fig. 605. Hypogastric Region of a Child, which lived six years, with ectopia vesicce urinaria. a, part of the bladder lying on the surface of the ab- domen ; b, umbilical cicatrix ; c, penis ; d, d, pre- puce ; h, urethral orifice; /, scrotum; g,g, testes, lying at the inguinal region. (/. Invcrsio vesica: urinaria?. Pro/apsus ve- sica; urinaria? inverse.— If the urachus re- mains open after birth, the urinary bladder may be expelled, and thereby inverted through it. R. Fronep(C/iirnrg. Kupfertafeln, Heft 67. Taf. cccxl.) has given an example of this malformation. It ought to be distinguished from the inversion of the bladder through the urethra, which is possible even in adult women (Voigtel). If. we take a general survey of all these cases of non-closure of the hypogastric region, it is evident that they are intimately connected with one another. The cloacal disposition is the highest, the ectopia of the urinary bladder the lowest, de- gree of malformation, and therefore the latter is a distinct transition towards the natural con- dition. The inversion of the urinary bladder observed by Froriep has, as to its origin, no direct relation to the other forms. It is but an accidental effect of the remaining open of the urachus, through which the bladder chanced to become inverted, and the urine flowed away through the urethra if the child was held up- right. From the gradual transition of one form into the other, I conclude that the origin of this malformation cannot well be attributed to a mechanical cause, as Duncan and Bonn have asserted nearly at the same time. They both consider it the effect of a preternatural accumulation of urine, causing a violent dis- tension, and later a rupture of the bladder, of the urethra, of the hypogastric region, and of the pubic articulation. This theory had already, in the year 1816, a very strong oppo- nent in my father (Verh. d. le kl. van het Koninkl. Nederl. Instit. I). II. B. 88). His chief arguments against it, to which I add my own, are: I. That, if the urinary bladder bursts,as may happen in adults, the urine will be evacuated into the abdominal cavity, without Assuring the anterior wall. 2. That it is improbable that in some cases such an accumulation should fissure the whole apparatus, and in others re- strict its effect to the corpora cavernosa, penis, and the urethra, as may be seen in simple epispadias (W. Vrolik, Bosson, Sals- mann, Morgagni, and Oberteuffer). 3. That by an observation of Baillie is proved, that in fissure of the urinary bladder the posterior part of the urethra may remain intact and closed, while the corpora cavernosa are fissured at the anterior part of the penis. 4. That I have often found in the fcetus atresia urethra; com- plicated with an unusual expansion of the urinary bladder and of the ureters, but with- out the least sign of bursting or of producing the malformation in question. 5. That ectopia of the urinary bladder demonstrates that the anterior wall of the abdomen may be open, the urinary bladder remaining intact; or the sup- posed effect may exist, when the cause is absent. From all these and other remarks and observations I conclude that the origin of this malformation is not to be found in a mechanical cause, neither internal nor external (Roose). I am much more inclined to ascribe all its different forms to arrest of develope- ment. My chief grounds for this opinion are the frequent coexistence of: — 1. The want of arteries Iii/pogaHrica? (G. Vrolik) ; 2. Ab- normal condition of the kidneys and the ure- ters (Pinel, Cooper, Isenflamm); 3. Fis- sured dorsal vertebra? (Littre, Revolat, Delfin, G. Vrolik); and many other malformations, as labium leporinum (Dupuytren, Meckel), con- fluent toes (Saxtorph). The only question which remains is, what is the cause of this imperfect developement ? As to the cloacal