WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). 1515 example of it, and Dupuytren mentions that he has met with but two. Sir A. Cooper refers to only one case of dislocation of the lower extremity of the ulna. In this case the bone was thrown backwards. Luxation of the lower extremity of the ulna at the wrist-joint, backwards. — Desault has published the history of a washerwoman who had a luxation of the inferior extremity of the ulna backwards, in consequence of the violent and sudden pronation in which the wrist had been forced into while she was in the act of wringing clothes. In this luxation, backwards, the forearm and hand are in a state of forced pronation, and the two bones are strongly crossed, forming with each other a very acute angle of decus- sation ; the inferior part of the forearm is much narrower than in the normal state ; the forearm, the hand, and the fingers, are main- tained in a state of moderate flexion, but iixed ; the tendons of the flexor muscles of the finger are, as it were, matted together into a single fasciculus, displaced inwards, and form a sensible saliency upon the ulnar border of the radius. What strikes one most, in looking at the back part of the wrist, is the very manifest projection on the dorsum of the region, formed by the lower extremity of the ulna, which rises so much above the level of the back of the hand. Luxation forwards. — Desault, Boyer, and Dupuytren have each adverted to this dislo- cation, in which we observe an oblique cross- ing of the bones of the forearm ; the fingers are semiflexed, and there is a remarkable narrowness of the inferior part of the limb. The forearm and hand are fixed into a state of supination, the saliency of the ulna is per- ceived in front, the tendons of the flexor muscles are pushed outwards towards the radius, and the inferior part of the ulna, instead of being parallel to that of the radius, as in the normal state, is oblique from above downwards, from within outwards, and from behind forwards. .Boyer gives the following remarkable ex- ample of this accident. In 1791, a woman of a strong constitution, and of a spare, though muscular frame, while in a state of intoxica- tion, looking at two persons playing "domino" in a cafe, in Paris, foolishly ventured some advice to the players, who besought her not to interrupt them. She, however, thought proper to persist in giving her gratuitous advice, until at last one of the players, a strong and vigorous man, got up in a very angry mood, seized her violently by the right hand ami endeavoured to push her out of the room. In this movement her hand and fore- arm were carried suddenly into a state of preternatural supination. Immediately the woman experienced the most acute pain, and cried out that her wrist was broken. The pain, the deformity, and the impossi- bility she experienced of executing the or- dinary movements of the forearm, made her fear that she was most seriously injured* " I was called in," says Boyer, " instantly, and I found the patient complaining of most acute suffering, having the forearm flexed, the hand fixed in a forced state of supination. The least effort to communicate a movement of pronation caused the patient the most acute aggravation of her sufferings. The ulna formed a very sensible prominence anteriorly, and this bone, instead of being parallel to the radius, formed with it an acute angle, crossing its direction somewhat, and passing down- wards, forwards, and outwards." All these symptoms taken together left no doubt on the mind of Boyer, but that the case he had to deal with was one of luxation forwards of the lower extremity of the ulna. It was not until after having tried thrice unsuccessfully that at length he succeeded in reducing the dislocation. Luxations of the inferior extremity of the ulna forwards from the scaphoid cavity of the radius are, according to the opinion also of Dupuytren, excessively rare, at least, " in the course of my long practice," he says, " I have met with but two cases of this accident." One of these cases he gives us a detail of, as follows:— Case. M. Blot, an officer of the gendarmerie, aet. 32, of a sanguine tempera- ment and athletic constitution; while on duty during the night, the horse upon which he was mounted took fright, reared up, and fell back with his rider. The latter was happy enough during the fall to disengage himself nearly from the animal, with the exception that his right arm was placed between the head of the horse and the ground, and thus received a violent shock. M. Blot, considering his fore- arm broken, applied to two surgeons, who, each in succession, recognised a dislocation of the ulna at the wrist, and each, also, failed in reducing the dislocation. M. Blot came to Paris, suffering much, and applied at the Hotel Dieu to Dupuytren, on 25th November. He then laboured under the following symp- toms : — The forearm was much swollen ; the hand was in a median position between pro- nation and supination- the inferior part of the forearm was deformed, rounded or rendered cylindrical near the wrist-joint by the diminu- tion of its bilateral diameter—a remarkable saliency existed within and in front, formed by the lower extremity of the ulna thrown forwards towards the palmar aspect—behind, a remarkable depression replaced the ac- customed prominency formed by the lower extremity of the ulna (la malleole interne) ; indeed, behind, a depression existed instead of the saliency ordinarily formed by the head of the ulna. If we followed with the fin- gers the ulna, from the elbow even to the hand, we perceived that this bone directed itself obliquely forwards and outwards in crossing and passing over the inferior part of the radius. The luxation of the radius forwards became then evident. There was no crepitation. The movements of pronation and supination were completely lost. Du-