1501 VOICE. without experiments conclude the latter to be the organ of sound. The superior larynx nevertheless performs an important office, both preventing the passage of the food into the wind-pipe, and modifying the sound of the voice. It can be opened and closed with rapidity, in singing birds ; and is actively employed in the production of melody : we can easily witness its simultaneous movements with the mouth, in the song of the canary, linnets, and others. Its influence on the pitch is according to Savart, but little, not amounting to more than a semitone. The inferior larynx may be considered a reed prefixed to a tube. The salient laminae of the membrana tympaniformis, and the mem- brana semilunaris are especially adapted to produce a series of vibrations, when a current of air is forced into the bronchi. It is indeed only necessary to dissect out the vocal tube of a bird, (such as that of the goose for example), and blow into it by the mouth, to elicit sounds. In the singing birds, which have the lower larynx furnished with the most elaborate muscular apparatus, the tension of the vibra- tile membrane of the glottis can be regulated with precision, so as to enable them to effect the varied melodies which nature or art dictates. In order to prove the duplex structure of the inferior larynx, Savart divided the recurrent nerve on one side in the living bird, after which it continued to sing with all the modi- fications of its melody as before. We agree as to the duplex office of the lower larynx in singing birds ; but in them the semilunar membrane appears common to both sides, as is also the os transversale. Savart considered the semilunar membrane to be chiefly de- veloped in those birds which have the most reedy quality of voice, the speaking birds for instance, such as the jays, pies, &c., but that, in the production of the flute tones in singing birds, it is more relaxed, and the glottis more open. He observes that, in making a trans- verse section of the trachea in the living bird, which also cuts the recurrent nerve, and pro- duces a relaxed state of the glottis, the sounds become less ' criard,' and less 'sourd' ; but, as birds thus maltreated suffer greatly, he recommends the section of the recurrent nerve only. It is one of the most difficult subjects in acoustics to determine theoretically the sound which many of the male Natatores ought to produce, such, for example, as the Anas domesticus, A. clangula, Mergus serrator, and M. merganser, the structure of whose la- rynges has been briefly describedand, when we consider that these larynges are composed of chambers of varied dimensions, bounded by walls partly membranous and partly osseous, the membranes being of unequal area, and perhaps unequal tension, we may have some notion of the extreme difficulty of the inquiry, when some of the greatest mathematicians of the past and present age have as yet been un- able to determine analytically the law of the vibration of a single piece of stretched parch- ment, like the drum. Experiment shows that a single membranous stretched disc will produce many other, be- sides its fundamental and harmonic sounds ; we need not, therefore, be surprised at the discordant tones which many of theNatatores are well known to produce. The reason why short tubes, such as the tracheas of many small birds, produce tones of a very grave pitch, has already been satisfactorily explained by Savart. We observe, however, that, in those birds in which the trachea is shortest, the diameter smallest, and the walls very elastic, the voice is most acute. The muscles which vary the tension of the walls of the vocal pipe are in continual action during the modulation of the voice, in order to adjust the tube of the trachea to the pitch of the glottis; but the number of vibrations is doubtless determined by the glottis, and reinforced by the walls of the pipe, as in Mammalia. The cavities in the trachea of some of the Natatores must certainly influence the timbre, or qua- lity of the voice of those birds. In the com- mon crane, and other birds which have a con- voluted trachea, the tones ought to be grave in proportion to its length, if the number of vibrations is determined by the length, as in musical instruments. The voice of birds, as of other animals, is always in a minor key ; but to describe the melody of each bird would be foreign to our subject. The range of notes is generally within an octave, though they can greatly exceed it. In the parrots, which have a voice of great power, the inferior larynx is single. The two membranes of the larynx leave a narrow chink between them, through which the air is forced from the lungs. These membranes, vibrating in all their dimensions, produce that harsh and disagreeable quality of sound peculiar to them. They can also whistle, during which the glottis is probably silent, and the column of air vibrates as in a flute, when a vibratory move- ment being communicated by the air, traverses the elastic walls of the tube. Besides the power of speech possessed by some birds, many can imitate almost every sound they hear. The blackbird has been known to imi- tate the song of the nightingale, the crowing of the common cock, and the cackle of the hen ; the jay is said to mock the notes of the green- finch and the neighing of the horse so closely, that it was scarcely believed to be a bird by those who heard it; also the calling of fowls to their food, and the barking of the house dog. The sounds uttered by birds are so various that to describe them physiologically in detail would occupy a volume ; let it therefore suf- fice, in concluding this section of our article, to mention that the voice of birds has been made the theme not only of the naturalist, but also of numerous eminent writers both in prose and verse. Voice ok Reptiles. — The mechanism of the vocal organs in reptiles presents very diver- sified forms. The larynx varies considerably in structure, not only in different orders, but in different genera of the same family. It would therefore be impossible to compress within the limits assigned to this article the