997 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). hydrocele, in which the testicle is retained in the abdomen or inguinal canal, while the peritoneum, prolonged for a short distance into the scrotum, forms the cyst containing the fluid which is covered only by the inte- guments and superficial fascia. Encysted hydrocele of the testicle.— In this form of hydrocele, fluid is effused into an ad- ventitious cyst or cysts distinct from the sac of the tunica vaginalis. The cyst is composed of a thin delicate serous membrane, and may be developed in three situations: I, beneath the visceral portion of the tunica vaginalis in- vesting the epididymis ; 2. between the testi- cular portion of the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea, which are thus separated from each other ; 3. between the layers of the loose or reflected portion of the tunica vaginalis. The first is by far the most com- mon situation, the two latter being very rare. These Cj'sts are composed of a delicate serous membrane lined with tesselated epithelium, and the fluid contained in them differs from that of simple hydrocele in being perfectly limpid and colourless, and nearly free from albumen. In the cysts formed on the epi- didymis, the fluid, instead of being limpid, often presents an opaline opacity arising from the presence of spermatozoa. 1. Small cysts not larger than a pea, and even smaller, may frequently be found beneath the serous membrane covering the head of the epididymis, in which they produce a slight depression. In several instances I have seen as many as five and six perfectly distinct cysts connected with this part. Sometimes one or two small cysts are so embedded in the substance of the epididymis, that they cannot be recognised without dis- section. Though these minute cysts generally contain a limpid fluid, I have sometimes found them filled with fluid of a milky hue, and I have even observed matter like pus tinged with blood. These accidental cysts some- times project the tunica vaginalis before them until they become so far separated from the epididymis, where they were originally deve- loped, as to be attached only by a narrow peduncle formed by a contraction of the con- necting tunica vaginalis. Such is the mode of development of those small pendulous pe- dunculated cysts containing a limpid fluid often found hanging from the head of the epi- didymis, which were erroneously supposed by Morgagni to be hydatids. I have on many occasions observed them in the different stages of their production. Thus I have seen a pedunculated cyst attached at one part, whilst close to it there was a cyst of a similar nature embedded in the substance of the epididymis. In other instances I have found the cyst very prominent, but still con- nected by a broad attachment to the tunica vaginalis reflected over it, the membrane not having as yet contracted to form the narrow neck. In all these cases the prolongation of the tunica vaginalis investing the cyst could always be demonstrated by cautious dissec- tion, and between the membrane and the cyst some minute red bloodvessels were generally seen ramifying. These pednuculated cysts never acquire a large size : I have seldom found them to exceed that of a currant. From the exposed situation of the testicle they are liable to be ruptured, the vestiges of them consisting of fimbriated folds of mem- brane ; but this is not a common occurrence. I have seen the delicate peduncle by which the cyst was attached to the epididymis as long as three quarters of an inch. M. Gosselin states that small cysts are sometimes deve- loped in the little appendage to the tunica va- ginalis so often found connected with the upper part of the testicle.* This I have never seen. So common are small cysts connected with the epididymis in the various states and stages I have described, that it is impossible to examine many testicles, especially of persons beyond the age of puberty, without finding them. According to M. Gosselin f, they are liable to be developed from the period of puberty to the age of thirty or thirty-five, but are rare at this period. After the age of forty they are very common, having been met with by him in at least two thirds of the testicles examined. Now when one or more of these cysts, instead of becoming pedunculated, en- large so as to form a tumour in the scrotum * Archives Ge'nerales des Mexlecine, 4e Se'rie, t. xvi. p. 27. f M. Gosselin has given an elaborate account of the cysts connected with the epididymis, in two pa- pers published in the 16th volume of the Archives Ge'nerales de Medicine. He makes two varieties of them, the small and large, and states that sperma- tozoa are found only in the latter. This distinction I consider to be unfounded, the smaller cysts being simply the early stage of the larger. M. Gosselin assumes the credit of being the first to describe the small cysts. They were, however, minutely de- scribed by me, and illustrated in my work on the Diseases of the Testis, published in 18-A3, of which M. Gosselin could scarcely have been ignorant, since he refers to my account of this form of hydrocele. 3 s"3