1242 TUNICATA. subsisting between Ascidia and Salpa, and knew the true analogy of their exterior co- vering, proposed to distinguish them as a dis- tinct group of Molluscs, under the term " soft- shells," which more truly accords with their real nature than "shell-less" (Acephales sans coquilles), as they have been subsequently de- signated by Cuvier*, who also, together with Blainville, regarded them as acephalous Mol- luscs, and sufficiently distinct to form a sepa- rate class. In many of the Acephala we find two tubes for the ingress and egress water, like those of the Ascidia;, and the mantle closed throughout its length, the walls of its cavity lined with the branchiae, and the mouth at the base of this cavity. The Ascidia being immovable, has neither adductor nor foot-inuscles; for, being destitute of a locomotive organ and of valves, the muscles disappear, with the excep- tion of some sphincter-hke bands. Together ■with the muscles, the pedal nerve-ganglions, or rather suboesophageal or posterior ganglions are lost, and there remain only the buccal or supra-cesophageal ganglions. The differences between the heart and auricles of the Asci- dians and the other Molluscs are dependent on the modification of the branchiae ; the latter, in Ascidians, never being arranged in the four lamellae usually found in Molluscs. The digestive tube and the generative organs are essentially the same in Tunicata and Ace- phala, and in the latter, as in the former, the ovary and testicle are enclosed in the intes- tinal loops. Yet however much resemblance we may find between the Acephala and the Tunicata, there is still more between the latter and the Bryozoa. Van Beneden observes, that if a Bryozoon was confined to its cell, and still to carry on its respiratory function by its un- protruded tentacles, and if anastomosing com- munications were established between the tentacles and a heart at their base, we should have the complete idea of an Ascidian. There would be two external orifices, a single mouth situated at the base of the branchial sac, vibratile cilia throughout the extent of the anastomosing tentacles, a folded intestinal canal, a supra-cesophageal ganglion, some muscular bands, and organs of generation developed around the digestive tube. There would be only wanting to complete the animal, a cloaca to receive the excrements, the sperm, and the ova, and a direct passage of commu- nication between the respiratory and the cloacal cavities. The gemmiparous mode of reproduction observed in the Clavellinae, and BotryllidcB closely resembles that which ob- tains in the Bryozoa. With regard to the de- velopment of the Acephala, compared with 790. B, Ideal figure Bryozoon. of a a, entrance of the sheath ; b, tentacles, hol- low throughout their length, equivalent to the straight branchial ves- sels ; d, the sheath; c, mouth, leading to the di- gestive cavity ; g, anus; i, integuments; k, peri- intestinal cavity. A, Ideal figure of an Ascidia. (After Van Beneden). a, a, the external ori- fices, branchial and anal; b, straight branchial ves- sels; c, transverse and anastomosing branchial vessels; d, respiratory cavity; e, cesophagus; /, digestive cavity; g, rec- tum ; h, cloaca, commu- nicating with branchial cavity, rectum, and ge- nerative organs; i, inte- gument ; k, peri-intesti- nal cavity. that of the Tunicata and Bryozoa, Van Beneden points out the following analogies : — " There exist common characters between the Bryozoa and the Anodonta in this re- spect ; their larvae respectively swim about by means of vibratile cilia. They have a dif- ferent form in the young and the adult states, and they undergo true metamorphoses. The same phenomena are seen in the Ascidians. These also have metamorphoses, perhaps, even more complete, but instead of vibratile cilia, the embryo is provided with a caudal appendage sufficiently long to serve for the purposes of locomotion ; which tail disappears, juot as the vibratile cilia of the former, as soon as the animal becomes definitely fixed." The embryogenic characters appear to en- tirely accord with the anatomical dispositions of these groups ; and altogether we are, per- haps, justified in considering, that they ap- proach on one side to the Acephala, and, through the Pedicellina\, they are, on the other hand, allied to the Bryozoa, forming a closely uniting link between these two impor- tant groups. J * Catal. Hunterian Museum, vol. i. p. 2G0. note. f For Van Beneden's researches on the development of the Pedieellina, &c. see art. Polypifera. J The following tabular arrangement, given by Prof. Van Beneden in his clever exposition of the alliances of the simple Ascidians (toe. cit. p. 58.) is a valuable illustration of the subject. f Hypocotyledones. Animals Epicotyle'done's. Allocotyle'done's Mollusques l_Polypes Eehinodermes. ;Cephalopodes. Gasteropodes. Acephales. Tuniciers {Bryozoaires. Medusaires. Anthozoaires. Alyconaires. (Salpiens. Pyrosomiens. Ascidiens. Polyascidiens. ^Pe'rophoriens.