VISION. Hoi it does not from tlicnce follow that what is not red is not niusculous. The muscular fibres of the guts and stomach have scarce anything of redness in their colour ; and it is also certain that the pupil does contract and dilate itself according as objects are more or less lumi- nous, and yet noneof the fibres which perform that action are in the least red. Whence it follows that the fibres of the ligamentum ciliare are not to be deprived of a power of con- traction because of a colour different from what generally obtains in other muscles ; nor are we to be surprised that so many accurate anatomists, after a careful examination of this process, have not scrupled to affirm it to be truly muscular." Mons. Pouillet has advanced the hypothesis that, by the peculiar conformation of the lens, near objects are seen through the medium of the rays passing through its centre, and distant objects by means of the circumferential rays, lie describes the crystalline lens as made up of strata, differing in curvature and density, so that its section exhibits a series of concen- trical ellipses having varying excentricities, the internal strata being more curved anil more dense than the external; whence the rays which pass from the latter converge to a more distant point than those from the former. According to this theory, the crystalline lens has many different foci,and the effect should be, that when a pencil of rays falls upon it, those rays which are near the axis of the pencil, and therefore near the centre of the lens, are brought to a shorter focus than those which are near the border ; whence near objects would, says M. Pouillet, be seen by means of the central rays, and distant objects by means of those rays which fall near the borders of the crystalline lens. It has been observed that De la Hire de- nied that there is an alteration in the focus, whether we look at a near or distant object. He regarded the whole adjustment as a simple enlargement and diminution of the pupil. At first sight this may appear absurd, but there are facts which give some colour to his theory. That a change in the size of the pupil has a considerable influence upon the distinctness of objects at different distances, is known, and if the eye be turned to a near object, as a book, after it has been gazing at a distant ship, the illumination of both being equal, the pupil is observed to contract. Dr. Mackenzie says, it is an error not unfre- quently adopted, that if the rays which pass into the eye from a distant object, and those from a near object, have the same divergence, a circumstance which may depend on a mere change in the sue of the pupil, they will be collected on the same point of the retina without any change in the refractive media of the eye. That this cannot be the case, is evi- dent from the fact that the rays from a dis- tant object, and those from a near object, although they may have the same divergence, fall on the cornea at different angles of inci- dence, and must necessarily meet the axis of the eye at different points alter refraction. Now the whole effect of the alteration in the size of the pupil is, as explained elsewhere, to increase the distinctness of objects by cutting off those rays which would cause cir- cles of dispersion on the retina. On the one hand, an enlargement of the pupil gives dis- tinctness to distant objects, by allowing a greater quantity of light to enter the eye, and on the other, its contraction assists in render- ing near objects distinct by cutting off the lateral rays which are not duly refracted, and would cause confusion of the image on the retina. If, however, a proof were required to show that something more than a mere alter- ation in the form of the pupil is necessary to the perfection of vision at all distances, it would be afforded by the change termed pres- byopia. The eye, in w hat may be called its state of perfect indolent vision, is adapted only to see distant objects, the adjustment to the near focus requiring an effort : the power to make the effort in question is partially or entirely lost by the presbyopic eye, yet the pupil may act as vigorously as ever. Though it is not unusual to find a degree of sluggish- ness in the actions of the pupil in elderly persons, yet we have repeatedly seen instances in which the iris acted with great vigour, and where a book was obliged to be held at arm's length for the type to be distinctly seen. Wagner and Dr. Clay Wallace of New York follow Porterfield in attributing the ad- justment to the action of the corpus ciliare; the latter considering that, " by the graduat- ing power of the ciliary processes and ciliary muscles, together with the elasticity of the membranes of the vitreous bod)1, the crystalline may be drawn not only backwards and for- wards, but its inclination may be changed so as to throw the image on another part of the re- retina :" and the modus operandi he explains by supposing " the outer ciliary muscle to contract the vessels returning from the ciliary pro- cesses ; the ciliary processes which are at- tached by the filaments of Amnion to the ciliary zone and crystalline capsule, to become erect and to draw forward the crystalline body ; and the inner ciliary muscle, aided by the elasticity of the membranes of the vitreous humour, to draw it backwards." The opinion, however, which appears most satisfactory, is that advanced by Mr. Bow- man, who has clearly proved the muscular nature of the ciliary body. " It has (sa}s he) the arrangement of a muscle, very much the structure of a muscle, and is largely sup- plied with nerves, which are in great part derived from a motor source — the third pair. This muscle arises, or has its most fixed attachment, at the junction of the scle- rotica and cornea, as much in front of the lens as is possible, consistently with the preserva- tion of the transparency of the cornea. That it may act more freely, a canal, the circular sinus, is interposed between its origin and the portion of the sclerotica which it lies against. Beyond this point it is hardly at all attached to the sclerotica, over which its fibres may be supposed to move in contraction ; but it