1097 THYMUS GLAND. neck to the vicinity of the lower jaw, spread- ing itself out above the clavicles on each side of the neck, and even passing behind the clavicles and pectoral muscles into the axil- lary spaces." Mr. Simon in his dissections of the same family finds the masses described by Tiedemann, as existing in the anterior and posterior mediastina, but not those in the neck, and states from microscopic examination the remarkable fact, that they all consisted of aggregations of fat vesicles. I do not ga- ther clearly from his description whether these fat cells were surrounded by a limitary mem- brane, preserving the form of the thymic cavities, in all the situations where the fat masses are mentioned as existing ; i. e. whe- ther all this fatty tissue was actually deve- loped from the thymus, or a mere accumula- tion in the ordinary way : nor does Mr. Simon state whether the specimens he examined were in a state of torpor at the time of their death or not. I confess I should wish to have fur- ther evidence concerning the accumulations of latin the marmot's thymus.—I have never seen a really nucleated fat cell, nor have I ever ob- served any approach to such a development of nuclei. Tiedemann's description indicates so strongly a great difference between the conditions of the masses in question at the commencement of winter and in the summer, that it seems to me quite necessary that a comparative examination of their minute structure at both periods should be under- taken before the question of their relation to the thymus can be decided. In Edentata the thymus is principally thoracic, the Sloth and Armadillo present small cervical prolongations connected to the larger mass by very slender strips. In Monotremata a thymus is found resting on the origin of the great vessels, and scarcely extending into the neck. Among Paclujdermata there are marked differences in the form and development of the thymus. A feetal Elephant presented a flat mass resting on the upper two-thirds of the pericardium, and sending upwards a short prolongation from its right lobe. In a Peccary the cervical portions were of great length, not only reaching to the angle of the jaw, but folded down again beside the trachea. So- lipeds have a thymus either entirely thoracic or reaching but a little way into the neck. Among Ruminants, the Calf is usually re- ferred to as exhibiting a thymus, which may serve as a type for the family. The gland presents cervical cornua which are highly developed, reach within the angle of the jaw on each side, and form large complicated masses up to the base of the cranium; below, these prolongations are narrowed, and united in close juxtaposition to form an isthmus, which passes behind the first bone of the sternum, inclines to the left side, and expands into another considerable mass of glandular substance situated on the upper part of the pericardium and covered by the left pleura. In the Reindeer the submaxillary enlargements are absent, and the tracheal are of compen- sative size. In the Fallow deer, again, the cer- vical portions are more developed, extending up to the cranium, but not reaching below quite to the pericardium. A thymus has been found in several Cc- tacea. In the foetal Dolphin there are two large median portions, pericardiac and tracheal, with deep seated lateral connecting cornua : in the Mysticete whale there were two peri- cardiac lobes, from the right one of which a prolongation extended backwards across the arch of the aorta, between the art. innomin. and left carotid till it reached the trachea, and ascended a small distance in front of that tube to terminate in two little cornua: the left lobe was of much smaller size. Aves.—In the class of birds no organ unequi- vocally possessing the characteristic structure of a thymus had until lately been shown to exist. Meckel, indeed, described in diving birds an organ which he supposed to be peculiar to them, and which he considered to be the thymus. The microscope, however, in Mr. Simon's hand has demonstrated this organ to be merely a mass of fat, and that, too, even in the youngest specimens ; the same observer has succeeded in discovering a real thymus, which corresponds closely in structure with that of mammalia at an early period of deve- lopment. It is found in the neck of very young birds, lying along the outer side of the superficial cervical vessels, extending from within a line or two of the base of the cra- nium to just above the inlet of the thorax. It appears as a semi-transparent ampullated tube closed at both extremities, and rather broader at its upper than at its lower part. Under the microscope it is seen to have walls formed by a distinct limitary membrane, and contents consisting of nuclei. The period of its dis- appearance varies somewhat, being earliest in the tribes of powerful and active flight, but in all occurring very much sooner than in mammalia. This discovery of Mr. Simon's appeared to me of so much interest, both as regards the existence of the organ in birds, and the fur- ther elucidation of its structure which might be expected from the examination of the or- gan in a lower grade of organized beings, that I was anxious to repeat the observation. The result was entirely confirmatory of Mr. Simon's description. In a chick about one week old I found on each side of the neck a tube, which appeared ampullated to the naked eye, and which under the microscope exhibited a large central cavity with numerous irregular and slight lateral bulgings {Jig. 732.). It was filled with imperfect nuclei, and with granular globules, which last were more nu- merous than usual ; there was also a quantity of oily matter in the form of minute drops or molecules. It was remarkable that on the right side the tube was divided into a number of separate portions, which seemed to have become quite isolated from each other ; this, I conceive, to have been the commence- ment of a process of degeneration, an idea which seems also favoured by the existence of