992 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). is very indistinctly developed. No sperma- tozoa could be detected. These were clearly instances of arrest of development of the tes- ticles. As these organs are chiefly excited to action by an operation of the mind, it is easy to understand that they may sometimes re- main undeveloped owing to defective organi- sation of the brain, an absence of sexual desires being invariably remarked in these cases. Cases of wasting of the testicles after injuries of the head, and the frequent absence of the venereal appetite in cretins and idiots, tend to strengthen this opinion. The follow- ing are marked examples of defective develop- ment of the sexual organs, accompanied with imperfection of the brain. An idiot, aged nineteen, subject to epileptic fits, died of typhus fever in the Hackney union. The youth was of short stature, and the form of the body was not indicative of either sex, but the contour was rounded as in the female. There was no appearance of hair about the face or pubes. The abdomen and other parts were covered with a thick layer of fat. The penis and scrotum were remarkably small, not larger than they are usually found in a child two or three years of age. Both testicles were in the scrotum, but they were of very diminutive size ; the right weighed less than a drachm, and the left not more than twenty three grains. The right gland had descended a very little way below the abdominal ring. The glandular structure and epididymis of both testicles were indistinct, and the vasa Sdeferentia also extremely small. Nothing re- markable was observed in the structure of the brain. Mr. Hovell, the surgeon of the union, also showed me another inmate of the same workhouse, a lad aged nineteen, and of weak mind, whose penis and testicles did not exceed in size those of a boy seven or eight years of age, and who had only a few scattered hairs on the pubes. In the museum at Fort Pitt, Chatham, are preserved two undeveloped testicles about the size of those of a child six months old, but healthy in structure, which were taken from a lunatic 58 years of age. His penis was small and he had never experienced any inclination for sexual inter- course. Wasting. — In investigating the alterations in the nutritive condition of the testicle, it is very desirable to fix, if possible, some standard by which they may be estimated. The size of the gland is neither uniform nor conveniently appreciated. Its weight, likewise, varies so much in different persons and in the same in- dividual at different periods, according as it has lately exercised its functions or remained inactive, and as it is full of semen or empty, that it is scarcely possible to determine on any accurate standard of this kind. (See p. 976.) I should consider the testicle of an adult weighing less than three drachms as in a state of atrophy. A testicle in an advaced state of wasting, not arising from disease of the gland, usually preserves its shape, but feels soft, having lost its elasticity and firm- ness. Its texture is pale and exhibits few blood-vessels, the tubuli and septa dividing the lobes are indistinct, and the former cannot be so readily drawn out into shreds as before. The epididymis does not usually waste so soon nor in the same degree as the body of the testicle. It sometimes however, loses its characteristic appearance, and I have even found it reduced to a few fibrous threads. The fluid pressed out of the wasted testicle and epididymis is entirely destitute of sper- matic granules and spermatozoa. In many- instances adipose tissue is deposited behind the tunica vaginalis, and encroaches on the epididymis and posterior part of the testicle. Fatty matter is also found in the glandular sub- stance of atrophied testicles, as in one taken from a man aged forty-six, who died of dropy consequent on disease of the kidneys, which was wasted to one fifth its natural size. In ad- dition to the presence of adipose tissue be- neath the visceral portion of the tunica vagin- alis, I recognised a quantity of yellow matter irregularly disposed amongst the wasted tu- buli. This matter on examination in the mi- croscope, proved to be oil globules, and readily dissolved on the application of ether. The structures composing the spermatic cord un- dergo a corresponding diminution ; the cre- master muscle disappears, the nerves shrink, and the vessels are reduced in size and num- ber. The vas deferens, though small, can ge- nerally be injected with mercury as far as the commencement of the epididymis. A testicle, atrophied from disease, is not only of dimin- ished size and weight, but is altered in shape, being uneven and irregular, and sometimes of an elongated form. The surfaces of the tunica vaginalis are adherent and its cavity is partly or entirely obliterated. There is no, or very little, trace of the proper glandular structure, the organ being converted into fibrous tissue of a firm texture. It loses its peculiar sensi- bility to pressure, but is sometimes the seat of morbid sensibility. All those causes which produce decay in other parts likewise occasion wasting of the testicle. Thus an impeded circulation, pressure, want of exercise, and loss of nervous influence, have been noticed as causes of atrophy of this gland. To these must be added certain causes which specially affect the testicle. The following case, related by Mr. Wardrop, is a good example of atrophy from defective nutrition. A person, both of whose testicles were completely absorbed, nothing being felt in the scrotum but a loose vaginal coat, died of an aneurism of the aorta, formed at the origin of the spermatic arteries, both of which were obliterated.* A ligature on the spermatic artery is sufficient to cause a total decay of the testicle, which induced the celebrated Harvey f to propose its ap- * Note to his edition of Baillie's works, vol. ii. p. 315. t Anatomical Exercitations concerning the Generation of Living Creatures. Lond. 1653, pp. 113, 114.