TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). 1012 minous conceal the gland, encroach on the septum, and extend to the other side of the scrotum. In a specimen which I carefully examined, the vessels were arranged in three clusters {fig. 655). One formed of the larger vessels proceeded from the inferior ex- tremity of the testicle ; the second, in which the vessels were less in size, but more numer- ous and tortuous, arose from the upper ex- Fig. 655. tremity of the testicle ; whilst the third and smallest cluster surrounded and accompanied the vas deferens (1). The dilatation is not con- fined to the veins exterior to the gland : even those in the organ itself are varicose, and enlarged veins may often be distinctly seen ramifying between the tunica vaginalis and tunica albuginea. The veins occasionally con- tain phlebolites which are lodged in dilatations of the vessels. The veins of the left testicle are more subject to varicocele than those of the right. In upwards of 120 operations per- formed by Breschet, in only one instance was the varicocele on the right side.* Pott met with this disease on both sides of the body in only one instance. The disease, however, is far from being so rare on the right side as is generally supposed, and often exists on both at the same time, although the varicose state of the right spermatic veins is always much less than that of the left. Of the causes of varicocele, some operate on both sides, others only on one. The most influential of the former is the hydrostatic pressure consequent Landouzy, Du Varicocele, p. 24. upon the depending position of these veins, which have to support the weight of a column of blood extending from the testicle to the second dorsal vertebra. The absence of valves is mentioned as a circumstance conducing to this disease ; but this is an error, for the larger spermatic veins are always furnished with valves, though the dilatation which takes place in varicocele prevents them per- forming their office. There are several anato- mical circumstances, which, taken together, are sufficient to explain the frequency of vari- cocele on the left side. On the right side the spermatic vein joins the vena cava nearly parallel to the axis of that vessel, so that the blood enters in the course of the circulation ; but on the left side the spermatic vein termi- nates in the emulgent vein at a right angle, and in a direction perpendicular to the venous current from the kidney, which is less favour- able to the return of blood from the testicle, since the two currents pursue a different di- rection. The left testicle hangs lower than the right, consequently the veins must be longer, and the pressure produced by the column of blood greater on the left side than on the other. The accumulation of the fseces in the sigmoid flexure of the colon previous to an evacuation tends to produce pressure on the spermatic vein, and impede the return of blood from the left testicle, especially in persons whose bowels are habitually con- stipated. Some persons subject to varicocele suffer from it only when the bowels are in this condition. But even the natural daily accu- mulation may be sufficient to produce ob- struction. To this cause, we must chiefly attribute the circumstance that a varicose di- latation of the veins of the ovary in the female is nearly always confined to the left side. In the slight degree and chronic state in which we most frequently meet with this affection, no injurious effect is produced on the testicle; but when highly or rapidly de- veloped, the dilatation of the veins interferes so much with the nutrition of the gland as to occasion wasting. A partial atrophy of the gland, coexisting with varicocele has come under my notice in more than twenty instances; indeed, in nearly all cases in which there was a decided dilatation of the spermatic veins on one side only, the testicle of that side was the smaller of the two. In a man, aged fifty-six, witli a varicocele on the left side, the testicle was so reduced that it scarcely exceeded the usual size of the organ in an infant. Some years ago, a tall sailor was under my care on account of a varicose ulcer on the left leg, who had a large varicocele on the left side, and a testicle so wasted, that it could scarcely be felt through the tunica vaginalis, which was loosely distended with fluid. The period of puberty is the time at which varicocele most cemmonly occurs. I have met with very few cases before that age. Adipose tumours. — The spermatic cord may be the seat of abnormal depositions of fat. They occur at different parts, as high up