I 193 VOICE. 5 c 3 Quagga.—Larynx somewhat like the horse, Fig. 906. Larynx of the Horse laid open. a, epiglottis ; 6, semilunar membrane ; e, aperture at the base of the epiglottis; d, sulcus; e, ventri- cles; f, arytenoids; g, inferior vocal cords; h, trachea. Fig. 907. The Larynx of the Ass laid open. a, epiglottis; b, arched cavity; c, apertures; d, arytenoids and vocal cords; e, trachea. but destitute of semilunar membrane. * Voice resembling the bark of*a dog; hence its name. Tapir Americanus.—Larynx : H. & L. less than in the horse. Thyroid : pomum absent. For the Cart, of Santorini and Cart Cuneiform, are substituted fibrocartilaginous masses."1" Vocal ligaments: superior short and indis- tinct ; inferior strong. Ventricles elongated into an oval blind sac. A semilunar opening in the base of the epiglottis, leads to a curved cavity on each side of it.% Voice, a species of whistle. J Susscrofa.—Larynx: H. I'55 in. Thyroid: wings united at an acute angle, become more acute below; superior cornua absent. Cricoid Fig. 908. Mesial section of the Larynx of the Pig (Sas scrofa). «, sac; 6, superior ligament; c, inferior ligament; d, sacculus laryngis; e, left arytenoid c.; f, cri- coid c.; g, trachea. an eccentric ellipsoid. Arytenoids locked to each other at the apex of their superior prominence by a cartilage. || Vocal cords directed obliquely downwards to form, with the axis of the vocal tube, an angle of 30°, and are inserted at a the height of the thyroid from its lower margin. L. 0*9 in. Ventricle d {fig. 90S.) an oblong chink leading, by a groove inclined backwards, to a sac, a. Voice a grunting, discordant sound. H Rhinoceros.— Larynx : H. 5 in. ; Thyroid : cornua none, figure rbomboidal. Cricoid : * Cuvier. f Brandt. J Brandt. § Bingley, An. Biog. || This cart, is peculiar to the pig. •jf The larynx of this animal ha.s been described by Casserius, Herrissant, Cuvier, Wolff, and Gurlt; the former first noticed the sacs in these words, ' Fora- mina duorum ventrium per qua? aer ingreditur, ad grunnitum in porcis efficiendum." Herrissant sup- posed the sacs to be the principal organs in the production of the voice of the pig, but we cannot concur in this opinion, they merely affect the quality of the sound.