1430 VESICUL,E SEMINALES. which we shall have to inquire into presently, when we treat of their function. The fascia that invests the mass of gyra- tions, like a fusiform bag, contains a great proportion of involuntary muscular fibre, and there is also a large admixture of involuntary fibre in the proper parietes of the tube. It is, of course, lined throughout with a mucous surface, which has a faint reticular marking, like that of the stomach in some animals, and is evidently glandular, or secreting. Comparative Anatomy.— Some consider able difficulty has been experienced by com- parative anatomists in identifying the vesiculte seminales in different animals. This has given rise to much discrepancy as to their existence, or non-existence, in certain species. In the Ruminantia, for instance, the prostate assumes the very singular form of two organs, each having a large central cavity opening into the urethra by a single duct; and these organs, very naturally, have been regarded by some as vesicular seminales. Who, indeed, can undertake to say, with certainty, that they are not? It is far from improbable that they are both the one and the other — pros- tate and vesicula at once. There are two very distinct kinds of com- parative anatomical identity—functional iden- tity and homological identity. Instances are very numerous of homologically identical parts being very diverse in function ; the function of the (homological) hand, for instance, is to seize with in man, to walk with in the horse, to fly with in the bat, and to swim with in the whale. And there are not, wanting many in- stances of parts functionally identical, and homologically diverse; a striking instance of which is furnished by the urinary bladder in Mammalia, compared with the reservoir of urine sometimes met with in Ovipara. In the case now before us, the function is in question, and the homology by no means prononce ; no wonder then that identification should be difficult and uncertain. We pro- ceed, however, to notice the various forms of certain sacs met with in brute animals, posited in close relation to the vasa defe- rentia, and impressing one somehow, perhaps homologically, with a notion that they are identical with the human vesicular seminales. Such vesicular are exclusively confined to the placental division of the Mammalia, They are not met with in the JMarsupialia nor Monotremata, nor in the other vertebrate classes, — Aves, Reptilia, nor Pisces. In some of these, Aves for instance, there are undoubted reservoirs of semen, formed by di- latations of the vasa deferentia ; these, how- ever, are manifestly not the organs in question. Reservoirs of semen are also met with in some InveHebrula, but since, as I have else- where noticed (Art. Symmetry, Vol. IV., p. 850.), homological identity of parts can in no instance be established in animals belonging to different sub-kingdoms, the only identity being in all cases merely that of function, these have no title to be described in an article on the vesiculae seminales, from which by function they are, as will be seen here- after, for certain diverse. They are indubitably present in all the Quadrumana, the Cheiroptera, and the Insccti- vora. They are wanting in the Carnivora. Present in the Rodcntia, and Pachydermata, and in the Manatee. In the other Cetacca they are absent. In the Ruminantia, the ques- tionable organs, mentioned above as hollow prostates, occur. In the higher Quadrumana they much re- semble those of man ; and their ducts join the vasa deferentia much in the same manner as in the human subject. In most of the lower monkeys they have not the convoluted form, but occur as simple sacs, and the outlets, at the side of the verumontanum, alone are common to their ducts and the vasa deferentia. In Galeopithccus they are remarkably small. In the hedgehog their size is enormous — twice that of the vesiculae in man—and they have a very interesting form. They consist each of a small central duct, from which ramify very numerous convoluted caeca of much greater calibre. The central duct terminates on the verumontanum, near the vas deferens. In the Rodcntia they are, mostly, very large. In the rabbit and hare they are, apparently, fused together, and form a single mesial sac, the upper end of which is somewhat square, thick and glandular. This sac opens by a mesial orifice, which receives the vasa defe- rentia, upon the verumontanum, It is, how- ever, very improbable that this really (homo- logically) represents the vesiculae seminales ; its mesial position, between the vasa deferentia, is essentially different from that of the vesiculae, which is always external to those ducts. It is most probably the utriculus prostaticus. In the other Rodents they are double ;—long, simple, and bi-fusiform in the guinea pig; serrated in the rat; having small ramifications in the agouti; and convoluted in the beaver. In the squirrel they consist of a small tube with glandular parietes, and much convoluted. In the Alpine marmot they are but slightly developed, very convoluted, and have glandular parietes. In all these their outlets are quite distinct from, though near to, those of the vasa deferentia. In the Pachydermata they assume very various forms. In the genus Equus they re- semble two small urinary bladders, and have two distinct muscular coats. They are thicker at their fundus than elsewhere; the thickening consisting of a glandular substance. The orifice of their ducts is in common with those of the vasa deferentia. There is also, in this genus, a third vesicular organ, situated me- sially between the vasa deferentia, of a long cylindical form, with a rounded fundus, and secreting a substance of the consistence and colour of honey. This is, undoubtedly, the ho- mologue of the utriculus prostaticus. In the Hyrax they are very large and convoluted. In the Rhinoceros they consist of two large irre- gular sacs, whose excretory ducts join the vasa deferentia. They are very large in the elephant, of an oval figure, with a constriction at their upper end. Their internal surface is divided by