TASTE. 859 On the other hand, it has been maintained by some physiologists (especially Magendie, Midler, Gurlt, and Kornf'eld), that the lin- gual branch of the fifth pair is the special nerve of taste ; although Miiller does not altogether exclude the participation of the glosso-pha- ryngeal as having a share in the transmission of gustative impressions from the posterior part of the tongue and the fauces. The ex- periments of Dr. Alcock and others, however, appear to show that very distinct indications of gustative sensibility are presented by ani- mals in which this nerve has been divided, the sense being merely deficient in the anterior part of the tongue. On the whole, then, it may be concluded from experiment, that the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the lingual branch of the fifth pair minister alike to the sense of taste; the for- mer being concerned in the transmission of gustative impressions from the fauces and the posterior part of the tongue, and the latter from the anterior portion of the tongue ; and the former being the special recipient of the impressions which produce the sense of nau- sea. This inference is so completely in har- mony with the results of anatomical inquiry, that it may be considered as having a very strong claim to reception as a physiological truth. The branches of the glosso-pharyn- geal appear to constitute the sole nervous supply of that region at the base of the tongue, of which the circumvallate papillae form the centre, and also of the sides of the tongue near the base. As it is universally admitted that these parts are acutely endowed with gustative sensibility, we cannot help re- garding the glosso-pharyngeal nerve as its instrument. On the other hand, the middle and anterior parts of the dorsum of the tongue appear to be solely supplied from the fifth pair, — the tip, however, receiving a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal, which runs towards it, along the under surface. It has been denied by some physiologists that the central por- tion of the upper surface possesses the proper gustative sensibility ; but we fully coincide in the statements of those who maintain the affirmative: and although it must be admitted that the sense is not so acute as it is at the base, sides, and apex of the tongue ; yet this may be fairly attributed to the greater thick- ness of the epithelial investment, and to the predominance of the conical papilla? over the fungiform in the central region. On turning to the pathological evidence which bears upon this question, we find an apparent contradiction in the phenomena re- corded by different observers; but this is in a great degree removed by a more careful ex- amination ; and the evidence on the whole preponderates in favour of the preceding con- clusions. We shall make use of the excellent summary recently put forth by Dr. J. Reid* : — " In the single cases observed and recorded by Mayo, Serrcs, Romberg, Mr. Bishop, and Todd and Bowman, and in the two cases by * Physiological, Pathological, and Anatomical Researches, p. 2G8. Mr. Dixon, both common sensation and the sense of taste were annihilated in those parts of the tongue supplied by the fifth pair ; while in one case related by Mr. Noble, and ano- ther by Vogt, common sensation was lost in the parts of the tongue supplied by the third branch of the fifth pair, yet the sense of taste remained in these parts; and in a second case related by Mr. Noble, there was loss of taste with maintenance of feeling." In some of these cases the loss of the sense of taste ap- peared to extend to the base of the tongue; but there was evidence that in these the glosso-pharyngeal nerve was also involved in the paralysis. " We have no proof," con- tinues Dr. Reid, " that in the cases related by Mr. Noble and Vogt, the whole of the fila- ments of the fifth pair sent to the tongue were affected; and in the case of Vogt the derangement of the nerve was only tempo- rary, for the patient recovered the sensation of the part paralysed after the end of six weeks. We believe that these cases, when examined more closely, will rather be regard- ed as affording arguments in favour of the opinion, that the same nervous filaments do not convey inwards the impressions which excite pain and touch and the impressions which excite taste ; and that different fila- ments for conveying inwards the impressions that excite these sensations are bound up in the lingual branch of the fifth pair." There is believed to be no case on record, in which the whole of the fifth pair, or of the third branch of it, was found to be diseased after death, and in which, during life, the sense of taste had been retained in the anterior and middle parts of the tongue. The evidence of pathology, therefore, is in favour of that con- clusion, as to the participation of the fifth pair with the glosso-pharyngeal in the sense of taste, at which we had arrived on other grounds. The question still remains, however, as to the speciality of the nervous fibres which con- vey the gustative impressions ; that is, whether they are the common sensory fibres, whose peculiarity of function depends on the nature of the papillary apparatus at their peripheral origin; or whether they are incapable, like the fibres of the olfactive, optic, and auditory- nerves, of conveying impressions of the ordi- nary sensorial kind, being adapted exclusively to receive and transmit the peculiar impres- sions made by sapid bodies. Now, in favour of the first view, it may be urged, that the conditions of the sense of taste are so nearly allied to those required for the exercise of touch, that the two can scarcely be dis- tinguished on this ground, and that the fifth pair and the glosso-pharyngeal are both nerves of common as well as of gustative sensibility ; neither of which can be affirmed in regard to the three other senses, or of the nerves which minister to them. But, on the other hand, it must be remarked, that these nerves do not seem to be endowed with gustative and com- mon sensibility in equal proportions ; for the glosso-pharyngeal, which is decidedly more