1260 URETHRA. The urethra is sometimes traversed by cords, in some respects resembling at first sight the cord<s ViLlisii of the longitudinal sinus. I presume they are formed by organi- sation of effused lymph. There is a curious .specimen of this disease in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, marked in the Cata- logue 30. 37. The patient from whom the preparation was taken had been frequently the subject of catheterization. The disease is exceedingly rare. Stricture. — Under this head are enumerated all contractions of the urethra depending on alteration of the tissue of the canal itself, or the parts immediately surrounding it. Stric- tures are commonly arranged under three heads — spasmodic, permanent or organic, and inflammatory or irritable stricture. A spasmodic stricture may be defined to be a temporary diminution in the diameter of the urethra, sometimes to such an extent as to effect its complete closure, from spasm of the muscles surrounding it. The term can only, with strict propriety, be applied to a tem- porary contraction of the muscles investing the membranous portion, as no action of the acceleratores urinag is equal to the complete closure of the spongy part. The common seat of spasmodic stricture is therefore the membranous part. Spasm of the urethra arises from various causes, as exposure to cold, indulgence in wine and venery, and gonorrheeal inflamma- tion. So also, certain medicines, as cantha- rides, when taken into the stomach, or ap- plied endermically, may induce a similar con- dition. Although genuine spasm is confined to the membranous part, yet the remainder of the urethra is liable to temporary contraction from general irritation of the mucous surface, as where the urine is loaded with lithates, and hence becomes exceedingly irritating. Under these circumstances the stream of urine is diminished, and the urethra resists the introduction of the catheter. This con- dition probably depends on irritability of those fibres, be they muscular or not, which enter so largely into the structure of the outer layer of the urethra. Spasmodic stricture may be recognised in the following manner : a patient observes a sensible diminution in the stream of water, aggravated by drinking and free living. After unusual indulgence in wine or venery, he finds suddenly that he is unable to pass a drop of water ; the surgeon, on attempting to introduce an elastic catheter, which is the best adapted for the case, finds the progress of the instrument impeded at the membranous part of the urethra ; by gentle pressure, how- ever, the spasm yields, and the instrument enters the bladder suddenly, and all sense of contraction disappears. On using the instru- ment on the following day, he finds that it passes with perfect freedom. By permanent stricture is understood a narrowing of the canal from organic change in the tissue of the urethra itself, or the corpus spongiosum. Permanent stricture may at- tack any portion of the urethra ; even the prostatic part, the fossa naviculars, and the bulb have been the seat of stricture : thus, Ricord and Cross have met with stricture in the prostatic portions, and the fossa navicu- lars has been found to be the seat of the dis- ease (after ulceration) ; but, although it is by no means unfrequent in the spongy portion, it is most common in the anterior part of the membranous part of the canal. This subject has been examined by various writers on urethral diseases, but the most extended re- searches are those of Mr. Phillips, and I therefore append the result of his observa- tions. He selected a number of cases for examination, and he found that In 9 cases the stricture was distant from the meatus - - - 1 inch. 8 „ „ from 1 to 2 inches. 13 „ „ 2 to 3 11 „ „ 3 to 4 98 „ „ 4 to Si 40 „ „ 5i to 6i 10 „ „ 6.Vto7i This corresponds with the observations of Ducamp, who found that, in five cases out of six, strictures are found at the distance of about 5 inches from the meatus, or from 4 inches 9 lines to 5 inches 3 lines. Amussat states that the most common seat of the dis- ease is the point of junction between the bulb and membranous portions. Varieties of permanent stricture.— Strictures may be spontaneous or traumatic. Traumatic strictures generally occur at the membranous portion, but they are occasionally found in the spongy part. The former result from contusions or lacerations, the latter from di- vision of the canal by cutting instruments, as after the extraction of impacted calculi, or after complete division. Whatever be the cause of traumatic stricture, if stricture en- sues after a wound of the urethra, a cicatrix occurs, as in other situations, and a tendinous puckering of the membrane takes place, giving rise to the most intractable form of the dis- ease. If, however, the stricture results from simple contusion inflammation attacks the part and the stricture is produced as in the common class. After ulceration of the ure- thra from chancre a puckering of the mem- brane gives rise to stricture in its character resembling the ordinary traumatic variety. The most simple form of permanent stric- ture is where the urethra is traversed by a fold of membrane thrown across in the form of a bridle. In this case the stricture is usually in the floor of the canal. It may occur in any part, except the prostatic, but its usual seat is the commencement of the spongy portion. The diameter of the urethra is thus only partially occluded, the shape of the stricture being somewhat crescentic. When the urethra is completely encircled, it appears as if a slender thread were tied around it, and thus an annular stricture, or bridle, is formed, the opening being usually in the middle. The efforts to micturate often push forward the