1109 THYROID GLAND. sides were large, J-jto-^inch diameter, closely aggregated together, and very variously altered from the spherical form by mutual pressure. There was very little investing areolar tissue. The epithelium consisted of a single row of nuclei imbedded in granular matter, which was more abundant than usually is the case. In some parts this had almost disappeared, and was replaced by delicate vesicles larger than the nuclei which lay closely together in contact with each other. Whichever of these forms the epithelium assumed, it did not en- croach much on the cavities of the vesicles, which were large and filled with some trans- parent non-refracting fluid. Most of the cavities also contained one to three yellowish coarsely granular globules, TJ__ to -j-A^ in. diameter ; these existed in va- rious stages of development. A fine large octohedral crystal was also seen in one of the cavities ; but there were no prisms of triple phosphate (Jig. 743.). Among the various families of the Saurians the thyroid is found to occupy different posi- Fig. 743. One side of a vesicle from thyroid of Tortoise. The epithelial stratum consists of a single row of nuclei, imbedded in a more abundant quantity of granular matter than usual. tions ; in some being single and mesial, in others double ; in some it lies high in the neck, in others low. Even in the same family its arrangement is not always uniform ; thus among the Lacertidce the gland is single, and of considerable breadth in the true liz:trds while in the Monitor it is double. Among the Iguanides, likewise, a similar variety prevails. The GechotidcB, Chamaekonidce, and Seincidce present the same general form as the true lizard. In the Chamaeleon it is rather higher (nearer the os hyoides) than in the other families, and is overhung by the sacciform dilatation of the larynx. In the Amphisbania and Opkidia "thegland lies just above the base of the heart, between the right and left carotid arteries. It is a little hidden by the thymus of each side ; and in those genera which possess a fat body this large organ lies conspicuously in front of both the thymus and thyroid." In the Batrachian order there has been found, in the common Frog, on each side a small glandular body, which Mr. Simon de- clares is unquestionably possessed of true thyroid structure. They are situated on the carotid arteries, just beside the cornua of the hyoid bone. Huschke conceived these bodies to have their origin in the shrinking of the branchiae, and endeavoured to establish that the thyroid generally had its origin in the transformation of the branchial arches in the early embryo. This hypothesis, however, Mr. Simon well remarks, appears refuted by the existence of the gland in a pcrenni-branchiate animal, the Menobranchus, where it consists of two symmetrical portions connected with the inferior border of the os hyoides, one on each side. In the class of Fishes there seems yet some doubt whether a true thyroid gland really exists. Mr. Simon believes that he has discovered the organ in many fishes, enumerating the Carp (Cyprinus), Pike (Esox), Cod (Gadus), Had- dock (Morrliua), Whiting (Merlangus), Eel (Anguittd), Sturgeon (Accipenser), Shark (Squalus), and Skate (Raid);—it seems also to be present in the Anableps, Exocoetus, Cal- lorhynchus, and Lamprey (Petromyzoii), but the evidence for its existence is less conclusive. It may occupy, he states, either of three posi- tions ; (l) as a single organ situated in the median line in connection with the basibran- chials, and supplied with blood from the first branchial vein while yet within the gills. (2) " In the Gadidae the gland is double. One portion lies on each side, not, as in the last case, at the anterior extremity of the first branchial arch, but near its posterior or ver- tebral end. Here it occupies part of a recess which is bounded by the gill below, and above by the outer extremity of that transverse fold of mucous membrane which limits the extent of the palate. It is merely covered by mucous membrane, which leaves it apparent to the eye without need of any express dissection. Its vascular supply is reflected to it from the ophthalmic artery, which arises before the formation of the systemic aorta from the first branchial vein close to the origin of the pro- per encephalic artery." (3) " In the carp, anableps, pike, and exocoetus, the gland is placed at the inner extremity of the same duplicature of mucous membrane, and more toward the palate, so as to lie upon the fibres of the pterygoid muscle." Though there is this variety of situation, yet Mr. Simon re- gards these several organs as constantly agree- ing in one point, viz., in deriving their vascular supply from the first branchial vein, and thus being brought into connection with the ence- phalic nervous centre,by their nutrient streams having origin from a common source. Pro- fessor Owen dissents from the view that the pseudobranchias are the analogues of the thy- roid gland. He states that in osseous fishes they are not diverticular to the cerebral circu- lation, but only to the ophthalmic, and in most cases are subsidiary, in this respect, to the cho- roid vaso-ganglion. The sublingual gland of Retzius is the organ which Professor Owen considers as most nearly representing the thyroid, though he suggests a doubt as to whether, by reason of its relations to the heart and great vessels, it may not more properly be regarded as the analogue of the thymus. It is with some hesitation that I proceed to mention the results of my own examination of some specimens from the three classes pointed out by Mr. Simon, in which he seems to regard the presence of a thyroid as un- doubtedly ascertained. I have, however, care- fully examined the structure with the micro- scope in every instance, and I believe I may