1258 URETHRA. tion of the urethra by the constant irritation of the part. So also the irritation of the menstrual and leucorrhceal discharges, when applied to the male urethra under states of high excitation, induces a similar pathological condition. Croupal exudations are sometimes found in the urethra. These assume either a tubular form, or the lymph is effused in the form of long shreds.* The mucous follicles situ- ated in the vicinity of the meatus are, ac- cording to Kleeberg, of Konigsberg, liable to a form of inflammation similar to that which attacks the follicles of the genital organs of the female. He thinks that it is sometimes connected with clap, or gleet, and often independent of either. It is indicated by a swollen state of the circumference of the mouth of the urethra, which is of a brownish red colour. There is slight pain in making water. The orifices of the lacuna; become closed by inflammation, and, in the course of two or three days, pustules are formed in their places, which break and discharge a yellow pus. " The orifices of the large mucous fol- licles are now seen dilated and surrounded by a swollen dark-red border, and they discharge a muco-purulent fluid into the urethra : if this be washed off, and the glands compressed, the fluid is distinctly seen issuing from these openings." f The disease sometimes assumes a chronic form. J The specific causes of inflammation of the urethra are syphilis, gonorrhoea, and small pox. Of these, gonorrhoea is the most fre- quent. Syphilitic inflammation, producing chancre, is by no means unfrequent, as Ricord has proved. The disease makes its appearance on the 6th, 8th, and 12th days after connection. Inoculation from the dis- charge produces the true syphilitic pustule. It often attacks the meatus urinarius. Inflammation from gonorrhoea may be either acute or subacute, or the disease may be viru- lent or simple, the difference being in degree rather than in kind. The disease begins in the anterior part of the canal, and is supposed to attack first the lacuna magna. Hunter limited its specific extent to an inch and a half from the meatus. The period of incuba- tion of the poison varies from one to ten days, and is sometimes prolonged even beyond this, if we can believe the accounts of patients. Hunter has known it to appear a few hours after connection, and Sir Astley Cooper met with a case in which it did not make its ap- pearance until after fourteen weeks from the time of inoculation. The pathological changes in the urethra from this disease may be briefly described. The dis- ease, commencing at the part indicated, if left to take its own course, gradually extends itself in a retrograde direction as far as the neck of the bladder, and, in very severe cases, the * See Pathological Museum of the College of Surgeons, Preparation No. 257(3. t Zeitschril't f tir die gesammte Medicin, Band ii. Heft 2. X British and Foreign Med. Review, vol. iii. mucous membrane of this viscus becomes involved. The urethral membrane is swollen, red, and exceedingly vascular : this can only be generally observed at the orifice, but it has also been seen in the middle of the canal in cases where, during an attack of gonorrhoea, the urethra has been divided. The intensity of the inflammation is not uniform. Thus, the lacuna magna, and the beginning of the spongy portion, are most severely attacked. The inflammation attacks the lacuna;, giving rise to pain and swelling in various parts of the canal ; even the spongy body itself be- comes, by contiguity, implicated in the dis- ease, and interstitial deposition of fibrin takes place in its cells, causing unequal dis- tension of this body during erection, and hence painful chordae. Abscess in this body is not very unfrequent. By continuity of surface, the disease attacks the mucous lining of Cowper's glands and the ducts of the prostate, whilst through the ejaculatory ves- sels it passes to the vesiculae seminales, and by the vasa deferentia to the epididymis, causing hernia humoralis. When the latter structures become aflected, the inflammation of the urethra itself in a great measure sub- sides, and the discharge ceases, usually to reappear in a mitigated form. The inflammation of gonorrhoea is neces- sarily of the catarrhal character. At the first onset of the affection there is a slight weeping from the meatus of a transparent fluid, in which mucus particles are floating, probably only the natural secretion of the urethra in excess. This soon gives place to a semi- puriform secretion, which glues the edges of the orifice together. It afterwards becomes more distinctly puriform, and at the height of the inflammation, the discharge, which has increased in quantity, puts on a greenish hue, and is of a faint, sickly odour, as the disease subsides. It changes again as to its character in exactly the inverse order of its appearance. It frequently leaves behind it a gleety dis- charge. The seat of this discharge in gleet is either the general mucous surface of the urethra, the lacunas, or the anti-prostatic ducts, and in many instances the ducts of the prostate gland are alone affected in long per- sistent gleets. When gonorrhoea coexists with chancre, the discharge has usually a greyish or reddish tint, or sanious aspect. Among the most important consequences of this affection, we may mention simple erosion and cicatrices from ulceration produc- ing stricture, and, which is much more com- mon, chronic thickening of the urethra giving rise to stricture. If the diseased urethra be examined after death, according to Hunter, the fossa naviculars and its lacunae are found more vascular than usual, and the lacunas filled with matter. In more severe cases the membranous part, Cowper's glands, and their ducts, are involved in the disease. Littre found, after examining forty cases, Cowper's glands morbid in one only ; and Morgagni met with only one or two instances of a