VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1316 can be attained, the practical question is at once and completely settled, we shall apply Fig. 805. \ Tasmanian female. {From the " Atlas du Voyage de rAstrolabe.") What, then, is the true zoological relation- ship between these different races, so dissi- milar in colour, features, bodily conformation, stature, habits of life, and moral and intel- lectual cultivation ? Have we any ground to consider them as distinct species ? or are we to regard them as varieties of one and the same species? Are the fair Circassian and the jet- black African, the olive Malay anil the red American, the dusky New Zealander and the florid Saxon, all of one original stock ? Did the Patagonians, whose average height is nearly six feet, spring from the same parents with the pigmy Bosjesmans, whose usual height is under five, that of the females rarely much exceeding four ? Are the fat, blubber- fed, flat-visaged Esquimaux even most distantly related to the lean, date-eating, hatchet-faced Arab ? " Does the Bosjesman, who lives in holes and caves, and devours ants' eggs, locusts, and snakes, belong to the same species as the men who luxuriated in the hanging gardens of Babylon, or walked the olive-grove of Academe, or sat enthroned in the imperial homes of the Caesars, or reposed in the mar- ble palaces of the Adriatic, or held sumptuous festivals in the gay salons of Versailles ? Can the grovelling Wawa, prostrate before his fetish, claim a community of origin with those whose religious sentiments inspired them to pile the prodigious temples of Thebes and Memphis, to carve the friezes of the Parthe- non, or to raise the heaven-pointing arches of Cologne ? That ignorant Ibo, muttering his all-but inarticulate prayer, is he of the same ultimate ancestry as those who sang deathless strains in honour of Olympian Jove, or of Pallas Athene ; or of those who, in a purer worship, are chanting their glorious hymns or solemn litanies in the churches of Christendom ? That Alfouro woman, with ourselves to the search for it, as fully as our present limits permit. Fig. 806. Aramanga youth. {From a portrait in Dr. Picker- ing's " Natural History of Man." ) her flattened face, transverse nostrils, thick lips, wide mouth, projecting teeth, eyes half closed by the loose swollen upper eyelids, ears circular, pendulous, and flapping ; the hue of her skin of a smoky black, and, by way of ornament, the septum of her nose pierced with a round stick some inches long, —is she of the same original parentage as those whose transcendent and perilous beauty brought unnumbered woes on the people of ancient story, convulsed kingdoms, entranced poets, and made scholars and sages forget their wisdom ? Did they all spring from one common mother ? Were Helen of Greece, and Cleopatra of Egypt, and Joanna of Arragon, and Rosamond of England, and Mary of Scotland, and the Eloisas, and Lauras, and Ianthes, — were all these, and our poor Alfouro, daughters of her who was ' fairest of all her daughters, Eve ?' The Quaiqua or Saboo, whose language is described as con- sisting of certain snapping, hissing, grunting sounds, all more or less nasal, — is he, too, of the same descent as those whose eloquent voices ' fulmined over Greece,' or shook the forum of Rome, or as that saint and father of the church sumamed the 'golden-mouthed,' or as those whose accents have thrilled all hearts with indignation, or melted them with pity and ruth, in the time-honoured halls of Westminster ?"* This question is capable of being considered under a great variety of aspects. There are many very excellent persons, who think it quite sufficiently answered by the authority of the Scriptural narrative, and who maintain that to this authority all opposing considerations * From an Introductory Lecture, entitled " Our Institution and its Studies; " by Dr. J. A. Syniouds. Bristol, 1850.