TEMPERAMENT. 935 3 o 4 p. 4, which is exposed in the substance of the jaw). The next stage is the shedding of d. 3, and the acquisition of m. 3 (d, Jig. 594.). Then d. 4 is shed by the ascent of p. 4 into its place (e, Jig. 594.). Afterwards m. 4 is acquired, and, in the Macropus gigas, p. 4 is simultaneously pushed out {y,fig. 594.). Thus, four individuals of this species may be found to have the same number of molars, 4, 4, i. e. ; two of these may seem, on a cur- 4—4 ' sory comparison, to have them of the same shape, e.g., like C and E, Jig. 594.; or like t> and f. In fact, to determine the identity or difference in such instances, it requires that the substance of the jaws be examined to see if the germs of successional teeth he present, as at p. 4, c and d, or at m. 4, E. The result of such examination may be to show that not one of the four kangaroos with 4—4 the in. had the same or homolosous 4—4 0 teeth. The four grinders, e.g., may be — d. 3, d. 4, m. 1, vi. 2 ; as in c : or, d. 4, in. ]. m. 2, m. 3 ; as in d : or, p. 4, m. I, m. 2, m. 3 ; as in e : or, m. 1, m. 2, m. 3, and m. 4 ; as in F. But the change does not stop here : as age advances, m. 1 is shed, and the molar series is reduced numerically to the condition of b ; but, instead of m. 1, d. 4, and d. 3, it consists of m. 2, m. 3, m. 4. Finally, m. 2 is shed, and the dentition is re- duced to the same numerical state as at a, Jig. 594.: the teeth, however, being m. 3 and m. 4. The order here described is not precisely that which is followed in some of the smaller species of kangaroo. In Macropus Bcnettii, e. g., the acquisition of m. 3 is not accom- panied by the shedding of d. 3, but the molar 5 5 series is numerically -—-r : so, likewise, in this species, the acquisition of m. 4 is not accompanied by the displacement of p. 4 ; 5 5 and a molar series of is long retained ; 5—5 but, at the earlier period cited, the teeth are :—• d. 3, d. 4, m. 1, m. 2, and m. 4: and, at the later period, they are: — p. 4, vi. 1, in. 2, 7>i. 3, and m. 4. These symbols, it is hoped, are so plain and simple as to have formed no obstacle to the full and easy comprehension of the facts explained by means of them. Had those facts been described in the ordinary way, by means of verbal phrases or definitions of the teeth, — e.g., "the second deciduous molar, representing the fourth in the typical den- tition," instead of d. 4, and so on,—the de- scription would have occupied much more space, and have levied such a tax upon the attention and memory, as must have tended to enfeeble the judgment, and impair the power of seizing and appreciating the results of the comparisons. Each year's experience strengthens my conviction that the rapid and successful pro- gress of the knowledge of animal struc- tures, and of the generalisations deducible therefrom, will be mainly influenced by the determination of the nature or homology of the parts, and by the concomitant power of condensing the propositions relating to them, and of attaching to them signs or sym- bols, equivalent to their single substantive names. In my work on the " Archetype of the Skeleton," I have denoted most of the bones by simple numerals, which, if generally adopted, might take the place of names; and all the propositions respecting the centrum of the occipital vertebra might be predicated of 1 as intelligibly as of " basioccipital." The symbols of the teeth are fewer, are easily understood and remembered, render unnecessary the endless repetition of the ver- bal definition of the parts, harmonize con- flicting synonyms, serve as a universal language, and express the author's meaning in the fewest and clearest terms. The entomologist has long found the advantage of such signs as $ and J , signifying male and female, and the like ; and it is time that the anatomist should avail himself of this powerful instrument of thought, instruction, and discovery, from which the chemist, the astronomer, and the mathematician have obtained such important results. (R. Owen.) TEMPERAMENT. Although all indivi- duals of the same species are composed of the same tissues, consisting of the same elements both proximate and ultimate, and agreeing in all essential points of chemical constitution, yet there exist between certain groups of them, sometimes in the most striking degree, differences not only in the pkysical powers and actions of their frames, but also in their mental qualities. These differences are refer- rible only to peculiarities in the constitution of an individual, or in other words, to pecu- liarities in the quality of his solids and fluids, which are of a nature so recondite that we cannot detect them by any chemical or ana- tomical means, and we appreciate them only by the character with which they impress the physical and, to a certain extent, mental actions of the individual in which they exist. To ex- press this character in one word physiologists employ the term temperament. The use of this word is of very ancient date. We trace it as far back as the time of Galen, who broached the doctrine that the blood consisted of four humours, correspond- ing to the four elements; these were respec- tively designated bMis, sanguis, atra bilis, phlegma. Nunc, says Haller, ex ejusmodi quatuor humoribus sanguinem aiebant tempc- rari, justamque omnium principiorum cominis- tionem perfectissimum tcmpcramentum efficere; si vero aut sanguis supra legitimam suam quasi dosin abundaret, sive bilis, sive terra atrave bilis, sive phlegma, quatuor tune sim- plicia et praecipua temperamenta aiebant oriri, a bilis abundantia cholericum, ah aquas uber- tate pldcgmaticum, a sanguinis aucta portionc,