WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). 1524 preside over the development of an attack of an acute rheumatic arthritis, or of diffuse in- flammation. Whatever may have been the specific nature of the acute inflammation, there is soon no- ticed, besides the pain felt through the carpal region and the heat, that there is considerable swelling. This last is more particularly ob- served on the dorsum of the wrist and carpus than elsewhere. An effusion, whether of serum or pus, very soon takes place into the interior of the synovial sac, which will always have a tendency to distend this sac in all di- rections ; but there can appear but little swelling at the anterior part of the arti- culation, because here a large fasciculus of flexor tendons of the fingers passes, and supports the synovial membrane. On the lateral aspect of the wrist-joint, the tume- faction, although sensible, is still limited by the resistance which the lateral ligaments op- pose to the distension of the capsule. Behind, on the contrary, where the synovial membrane is unsupported and but superficially covered, the swelling, the result of the inflammation, soon becomes much more manifest, and fluc- tuation evident. We are not aware of any case recorded in which complete dislocation of the hand, on the back part of the forearm or of this last forwards, had occurred as the result of acute inflammation. The only luxation, the result of acute arthritis in the region of the wrist, which has been noticed hitherto, has been that of the ulna backwards. This luxation is not an uncommon result of an attack of acute arthritis of the wrist, by which the ligament which connects the ulna to the cuneiform bone becomes softened and lengthened, and permits of the ulna being dis- located partially or completely backwards. Bonnet has commented on the frequency of this backward displacement of the ulna, and looks upon it as the smultaneous effect of the facility with which the ligamentous ties of this bone become softened and elongated, and of the faulty position in which the hand is kept by the patient, who remains usually in bed during these acute attacks, and pre- serves the forearm and hand in a state of complete pronation,—a position which favours the displacement of the ulna backwards. We have stated that acute arthritis of the wrist and carpal joints may be the result of inflammatory action, propagated from a wounded tendon of one of the fingers. The following is one of a few of those cases which had been admitted into the Richmond Hospital within a short period. Case. — John Murphy, a labourer, set. thirty-eight, while engaged in a fight with another labourer, received from him a bite in the little finger. The inflammation which fol- lowed involved the tendons and their sheaths, and spreading up the forearm, implicated in its passage the carpal anil meta-carpal joints as well as the wrist and radio-ulnar articula- tion, all of which became ultimately disorgan- ised. The amputation of the forearm, below the elbow-joint, became necessary. On making an anatomical examination it was found that there was complete disorganisation of the wrist- joint. All the bones of the carpus were loose and bathed in purulent matter. Chronic Strumous Arthritis of the Wrist, or White Swelling. — This is a disease which is generally considered to have its origin in the cancellous structure of the bones. It is fa- miliarly designated by many English writers by the well-known but somewhat equivocal name of " white swelling." When we take into consideration that the bones and the joints which compose the region of the wrist are very superficially placed, and that they are frequently subjected to sprains and concussions from falls on the palm of the hand, we need not be surprised to find that these numerous injuries become so many de- termining causes, giving rise to a chronic in- flammation of the bones and articular textures of the wrist, which frequently assumes the strumous character. As to the symptoms of this disease, we have to observe that the patient complains of pain, sometimes in one point of the wrist, sometimes in another, which is increased on the slightest motion. Soon a swelling ap- pears on the dorsum of the carpus, and the hand, from day to day, becomes more flexed on the forearm. After a time the region of the wrist assumes a globular form. The fore- arm, when compared with that of the opposite side, has an emaciated and wasted appearance. The patient usually has the hand supported on its palm, in the prone position, on some flat surface; the whole hand has a most helpless aspect; the fingers are swollen at their bases, and seem elongated and tapering towards their extremities : they are straight and motionless, and it is always with diffi- culty and pain that the patient moves them,— a circumstance we can easily account for, by recollecting that the inflammatory irritation which affects the wrist-joint is readily propa- gated to the tendons of the fingers which pass so immediately in front of it. The synovial membrane in these cases is early distended by an increased secretion into the interior of the sac, and a fluctuating swell- ing may be occasionally perceived posteriorly, as in the case of acute arthritis; but in the case of white swelling, instead of true fluctua- tion, there is in general nothing but a decep- tive feeling of it, from the infiltration of the tissues in the region of the wrist, by a glairy gelatiniform structure, similar to that which constitutes the chief bulk of white swellings in general. During the second period of the disease, the degree of flexion of the hand and of the wrist-joint becomes increased, and the lower extremity of the bones of the forearm, parti- cularly of the ulna, becomes very salient pos- teriorly. As the disease goes on, the bones of the carpus become more deeply carious ; chronic symptomatic abscesses form, and their contents make their way to the surface, which is frequently studded over, in advanced cases,