THYROID GLAND. 1108 sheep, three inches long, the thyroid was much more of its natural reddish, semi-trans- lucent colour; still there was scarcely any vesicular arrangement, the mass consisting almost entirely of nuclei aggregated together. The thyroid of the human foetus just men- tioned was of the same grayish aspect as that of the smallest of the embryonic sheep. It also consisted chiefly of nuclei, but these were to some extent collected together so as to form solid globular masses (fig. 741.), not Ms. 741. Incipient vesicle from thyroid of human foetus, at about mid-pei iod. It is a solid mass of nuclei, not enclosed in a distinct envelope. yet, however, quite definitely isolated, nor surrounded by homogeneous envelopes. This, however, seems to be the way in which the vesicular cavities are developed ; the limitary envelopes being formed around the primitive nuclei, which assume the arrangement of epi- thelium. The thyroid is of larger relative magnitude during intra-uterine existence and infancy than in after life, — a fact which seems rather opposed to the view which regards this gland as alternating its action with that of the brain. Comparative anatomy of thyroid.—The existence of a thyroid gland in all the Mam- malian orders seems to be undoubted ; and though it is probable that, by a close and ex- tended survey of the various families, some interesting and perhaps instructive peculiarities might be detected, yet I have not the oppor- tunities necessary for undertaking such an inquiry, and can only record one observation where some deviation from the ordinary con- dition was discovered. This was in a Rabbit, in which the organ presented the vesicular arrangement much less manifestly than is usually the case. The epithelium consisted of small imperfect celloid particles, disposed so as to form hollow spheres ; but there was scarce any appearance of secretion in the included cavities, which were small, and might at first have escaped observation. For the following summary of the compa- rative anatomy of the thyroid in birds and rep- tiles, I am principally indebted to Mr. Simon's paper in the Philosophical Transactions. In Birds, there are found, in all the va- rious orders, two glands, situated one on each side of the trachea, very near the lower larynx, and frequently attached to the jugular veins. They possess the characteristic struc- ture of the thyroid body, consisting of a dense aggregation of closed vesicles, which contain a kind of epithelium, and are invested by a close capillary network applied over their homogeneous envelope. The position of these glands with respect to the larynx seems to be neither essential nor constant; it is however stated by Mr. Simon, that it " always corre- sponds to a particular spot of the vascular system, viz., that it lies on the cervical vessels, and receives its supply of blood just opposite to the point at which the vertebral or carotid arteries diverge to their respective destina- tions." The following are the details of a mi- croscopic examination which I made of these glands in a Pigeon. They consist of closed vesicles about ^ig. inch diameter, having their homogeneous envelope lined by a rather thick layer of epithelium, so that the cavity is proportionably contracted, sometimes not being more than T2-£ro mcn diameter The epithelium consists, for the most part, of nuclei and granular matter. Some of the nuclei are very perfect, and show a distinct vesicular struc- ture, with a well marked peripheral nucleolus. Others are more like granules, solid and opaque, and not above half the size. The nuclei are imbedded in granular matter, which for the most part is diffused freely about, but occa- sionally, though very rarely, constitutes the contents of a cell. In some cavities the epi- thelium assumes the form of non-nucleated delicate vesicles, of rather large size (fig.7-^2. b.). No secretion, capable of being recognised by the eye, exists in the glandular cavities. Ms. 742. O © poo From the thyroid of a Pigeon. a, 'b, Two vesicles. The epithelium of a consists of miclei and granular matter; that of b of rather large, delicate, pellucid vesicles. The central cavity is small, especially in a. c, The two varieties of nuclei, and — d, A complete nucleated cell. Reptiles.—In the order Chelonia the organ, which is demonstrated by the microscope to be really the thyroid, is found occu- pying a definite and uniform position. It lies in the median plane of the body, immediately above the base of the heart, between the two carotid arteries, a ndis overlapped and con- cealed by the pericardial lobes of the thymus. The structure of the gland in a young Tor- toise I found extremely well marked; the ve-