TOUCH. TOUCH. — The sense through which we take cognisance of the palpable properties of bodies. The term is used, however, in two meanings, between which it is requisite to maintain a due discrimination. In its ex- tended acceptation, it implies our conscious- ness of all those sensory impressions, which are neither olfactive, visual, auditory, nor gustative ; and it is therefore designated as the general sense, in contradistinction to those, which are considered as special senses. In its most limited application, on the other hand, it is used to designate that modification of the general sensibility, which is restricted to the tegumentary surface, or to some special portion of it, and which serves to excite definite ideas in our minds respecting the form, size, number, configuration, weight, tem- perature, hardness, softness, &c, of objects brought within its cognisance. The use of the sense of Touch, in the acquirement of these ideas, is, as we shall see hereafter, a very complex process ; involving not merely the discriminating employment of the proper organs of touch, but also the assistance of muscular action, and of the information de- rived from it by the " muscular sense." General Sensibility.—The most universal of all the qualities or properties of matter (that, in fact, upon which our notion of it _ is founded) is resistance; and it is of this quality that we find the power of cog- nisance most extensively diffused through the body, and most universally possessed by all beings endowed with consciousness. It would seem to require nothing else than the presence of nerves connected (directly or indirectly) with sensorial centres ; for there does not appear to be a need of any special organisation, surrounding the peripheral ex- tremities of these nerves, in order that they may receive and transmit impressions. Thus any unusual pressure on a nerve in its course is at once perceived by the mind, — not, however, as pressure, but as a disagreeable or painful sensation, which gives no indication of the mode in which it was excited. The nerves of smell, sight, and hearing, are not thus affected by mechanical irritation, no manifestations of pain being exhibited when they are pinched, torn, lacerated, &c.; and the general sensibility which these organs of sense possess is dependent upon otheiMierves. The nerves of taste, however, exhibit the same susceptibility to tactile impressions, as do those of touch ; and hence we have an additional proof of the very close affinity of these two senses (See Taste). The only condition requisite for the ex- ercise of " general sensibility," beyond the integrity of the nervous apparatus, is the adequate supply of oxygenated blood. Wher- ever sensory nerves exist, we find them ac- companied by blood-vessels; and no non- vascular tissue possesses in itself the least degree of sensibility. Thus, in the epidermis, hair, nails, cartilage, and tooth-substance, nei- ther nerves nor blood-vessels exist, and we find these tissues completely insensible. In 1103 tendons, ligaments, fibrous membranes, and in other parts whose function is purely me- chanical, we find very little vascularity, and extremely little sensitiveness to ordinary im- pressions ; it is remarkable, however, that although the tissues, whose function it is to re- sist tension, are scarcely impressible by cutting, burning, &c, they cannot be unduly stretched without considerable pain. So, also, the serous and synovial membranes are not in the least susceptible of ordinary tactile impressions in their healthy state ; but they become acutely- sensitive when inflamed. It does not at ail follow, however, that the sensibility of a part should increase with its vascularity ; for we find that some of the most vascular organs in the body are the least sensitive, the supply of blood which they receive having some pur- pose entirely different. Thus the sensibility of the muscles is by no means proportionate to the large amount of blood which they re- ceive ; and even the substance of the brain (like that of the nerves of special sensation) is destitute of this property. So, again, the mucous membranes lining the interior of the several viscera, though supplied with blood even more copiously than the skin, are very far inferior to it in sensibility. The depend- ence of this endowment, however, wherever it exists, upon the continued circulation of the blood, is at once made apparent by the results of its suspension ; thus, when the main artery of a limb is tied, there is a dimi- nution of the sensibility both of its surface and of its substance, which is so exactly proportioned to the degree in which the sup- ply of blood is diminished, and the reco- very fr om which takes place so precisely in accordance with the establishment of the col- lateral circulation, that we cannot doubt that, if the supply of blood were completely cut off', sensibility would be entirely suspended. The numbness produced by cold, in like manner, is partly due to the stagnation which it occasions in the capillary circulation in the skin ; though it is doubtless in part attributable to the immediate depressing influence of the cold upon the vital endowments of the ner- vous apparatus itself. The general sensibility of the body may be called into activity by impressions received from objects external to it, or by causes ori- ginating in itself; and the consequent sensa- tions are sometimes distinguished as " ex- ternal" and '-internal." These designations are by no means logically correct; for all sensations must originate in causes external to the recipient mind; whilst, on the other hand, in order that any sensation may be felt a certain condition of'the corporeal organism must first be produced ; and this condition may be precisely the same, whether it be immediately dependent upon changes ori- ginating in the body itself, or upon ^ehan^es impressed upon it from some agency external to it. Still, however, the terms " external " and " internal " sensations are sufficiently con- venient, and sufficiently free from the pro- bability of misconception, to justify the phy-