850 SYMMETRY. seum of the College of Surgeons (No. 205.), there is a portion of a taenia lata, which ex- hibits a monstrosity very interesting in its bearing on the question of the individuality of half segments (p. 845.). On one side, which for distinction we will call right, there are three half segments, the middle one of which unites with two half segments of the left side, leaving the upper and lower of the three right halves isolated and independent. One of these contains a generative apparatus. Mollusca.-—In this sub-kingdom absence of symmetry seems to be the rule — its pre- sence the exception. There are great prac- tical difficulties in the way of finding an ab- stract notion or type of a mollusk such as have been found for the Vertebrata and Arti- culata. If, however, such type be symme- trical, that symmetry is departed from much oftener than it is preserved. There is no appearance in any mollusk of a serial re- petition of parts — nothing like serial ho- mology, except in the Chitons, whose shell consists of a number of similar symmetrical transverse bands. The highest class of mol- lusks, the Cephalopoda, are symmetrical, and when they inhabit shells, as the Argonaut and pearly Nautilus, their shells are symme- trical. But the enormous number of species comprised in the classes Gasteropoda and Acephala are nearly all unsymmetrical. The slugs are the most symmetrical of the Gaste- ropoda in their external form, but here the air-orifice, for instance, is on one side. Radiata. — For convenience of illustration, I select from among the animals composing this sub-kingdom the common star-fish. (Figs. 16, 22, &c. Vol. I. Art. Eciiinodermata.) This animal presents to our view a flattened form with five exactly similar rays or arms ra- diating from the centre, where is posited the mouth. Around the mouth is a nervous circle consisting of a number of ganglia corresponding to the arms, connected with each other by intercommunicating cords. Each arm is symmetrical in itself. Now this figure may be divided into two symmetrical halves by a line drawn across it in either of five different diameters. What is to decide which of these is to be regarded as the mesial line ? For- tunately there is, on the side which is the reverse to that on which the oral orifice is placed, a peculiar spot, the remains of an embryonic structure, which is not in the centre, and will therefore serve for a datum. In certain other echinoderms the anus is situ- ated eccentrically, in which case it also may be taken as a datum. But still a line drawn through either of these, the number of the arms not being an even number, will divide one of them in its middle on one side, and pass through the interspace between two of them on the other. This, as the arms are exact repetitions of one another, seems an unnatural and arbitrary proceeding. Still, though it possesses no natural middle line, and consequently is not bilateral, yet is the star-fish a symmetrical animal, for the idea of bilateralism is by no means included in our definition of symmetry. Whenever a number of exactly similar parts symmetrical in themselves are arranged around a centre, whether their number be two, as in bilateral forms, or five, as in the star-fish, the whole figure is symmetrical. Abandoning then the idea of bilateralism, we may look upon the star-fish as composed of five repe- titions arranged around a centre. Regarding it in this manner, we are able to institute a comparison between the form of the star-fish and that of the segmented vertebrates and articulates. The star-fish may be regarded as analogous to one segment of a vertebrate or articulate — an animal with one vertebra. I use the term " analogous," and not " homologous," because the relation called special homology cannot be demonstrated, in any instance, between animals belonging to different sub-kingdoms. The head, the legs, the brain of an articulate, are only function- ally the head, legs, or brain. They perform the same function as, but they cannot be shown to be homologous with, the head, legs, or brain of a vertebrate. Indeed I have long held that the sub-kingdoms should be limited by refer- ence to special homology : all animals among which homologies can be pointed out—which all conform to the same type — should be grouped together to form a sub-kingdom. The view of the analogy of a radiate animal to a vertebrate or articulate animal just given, is considerably strengthened by the manner of development of the common medusa. The larva of the medusa is a polypiform living thing, anchored by one end and tentaculated at the other. This, after a while, becomes marked with numerous constrictions, like a segmented animal, which constrictions become more and more deep until they completely divide the quondam polypiform being into a number of pieces, each of which becomes a perfect medusa. Here is a segmented animal, each of whose joints becomes an independent radiate individual; ergo, each individual is analogous to one segment of a vertebrate or articulate. Towards a different view tends the fact, that though five, or a multiple of five, is usually the number of the rays of the star-fish, yet there are some members of the same group the number of whose arms are neither the one nor the other; for instance, there are eleven and twelve-armed asterias. Now there is such perfect constancy in the number of the parts of vertebrate and articulate segments, that that constancy seems an integral element of the idea of an archetype. There is, however, no constancy in the number of the vertebrate or articulate segments that go to constitute an animal, and therefore some may regard each arm of an asteria as analogous to a vertebra ;—■ the common star-fish, as composed of five analogues of vertebral archetypes arranged in a circle, — as a segmented animal bent upon itself, with its anteriorand posteriorextremities adherent to one another. Which of these two views is the correct one — whether either is correct — can be decided then only when the true import of serial homology and of sym-