THYMUS GLAND. 1100 and it cannot be deemed unreasonable to sup- pose that its use in the system should change also. In fact, that its use should be the same in the two cases, where its functions are so different, appears to us a very improbable supposition." Consonant with the above view is that of Mr. Paget, who remarks in his Report, that the fatty transformation of the thymus is an atrophy or degeneration of the gland, " analogous to that atrophy by di- minution or total removal of substance, which takes place once for all in the animals in which the thymus is not persistent. In each case the atrophy is an indication that the ne- cessity for the ordinary acts of the thymus has ceased; but in the hibernants it is, for new circumstances, made to minister to a new purpose, till at the expiration of the winter sleep, and the recommencement of new growth it begins again to be truly developed, and to form the more highly azotized organic com- pounds which it may restore to the blood for the nutrition of the fresh growing tissues." On a careful consideration of the theories now noticed (and no other are worthy of any examination), it seems to me, certainly, that the latter is nearest the truth ; and that we cannot regard the thymus in the young animal as a mere preparer of material fitted to sup- port the respiration. The following argu- ments must be allowed to weigh strongly against Mr. Simon's view. (1.) The chemi- cal constitution of the thymus, consisting chiefly of proteine and not of fatty matters, seems by no means to be such as would be best adapted to sustain the supply of com- bustible material required in respiration. (2.) The office of serving as a reservoir for ma- terial to be used in respiration may be attri- buted with much more probability to the liver*, the construction of which, as also in some measure its position relative to the cir- culatory system, point it out as peculiarly adapted for the reception of superfluous re- spirable material from the blood, and equally so for rendering it up again, when the demand again begins to be felt in the circulating cur- rent. Of this, the condition of the liver in fish, and generally in all animals, in whom the respiration is of a low type, is sufficient proof. Now as the liver is of greater relative size in the young than in the adult animal, it is not likely that this one of its functions is in any measure discharged by the thymus. (3.) The anatomical constitution o f the thymus is very unlike that of an organ winch serves * I may just briefly mention here the results to which I have been led by a long and careful study of the liver in vertebrata. Its lobules (if it is so divided) are not penetrated by excretory ducts, nor are the secreting cells contained as in most other glands in the cavities of ducts, they lie naked in the interstices of a close plexus of most delicate-walled, capacious, capillaries, from which they readily re- ceive the materials they are intended to act on ; and to which they as readily render up their elaborated products when these are called for. The excretory ducts, consisting at their origins almost solely of nuclei, attract into their cavities the oleo-biliary secretion with which they are bathed; probably, however, in so doing altering it to some extent, as a reservoir of respirable matter. For this purpose we should expect to find a fluid stored up in cavities, such as the oil of the fat vesicles, or the oleo-biliary matter which collects within the cells of the liver; the ana- tomical elements, however, of the thymus are totally different, being mere nuclei, with no trace even of commencing cell development, in fact, just that part of a glandular appa- ratus which is not the secretion, however im- portant a part it may play in the elaboration of it. (4.) The transformation of the thymus into fat previous to the winter sleep, con- currently with the formation of other fat masses in the axilla;, indicates, as above shown, very strongly that the gland in its natural state fulfils some purpose different from that to which it is subservient during hibernation. But as there can be no doubt that it undergoes this change for the sake of the respiratory function, — to fit itself for supplying those de- mands during the long period when the waste of the tissues is reduced to a minimum, and no ingesta are taken,—it seems tolerably cer- tain that while the gland continues in its normal unchanged state, its action must be of a different kind, not having special reference to the function to which during hibernation it un- doubtedly ministers. The circumstance quoted by Mr. Simon from the writings of Mr. Gulliver, respecting the remarkable shrinking of the thymus in over-driven lambs, cannot be re- garded as proving that the contents of its cavi- ties are thus absorbed soldi/ for the use of re- spiration. It is more probable that they are resumed into the blood, which has begun to be impoverished by fasting and exercise, in order that they may go to supply the nutrition of all parts indifferently. With regard to the argu- ments adduced by Mr. Simon from Compara- tive Anatomy, to the effect that a thymus has some essential connection with pulmonary organs of respiration, I would remark that though it is certainly of weight, yet it can- not be regarded as proving absolutely that the two organs are co-related in function. It may be that they are only simultaneously developed, — connected together in virtue of some law of organized being which requires their coeval appearance, and yet not intended to minister to a common pupose.* I grant that observing their consentaneous appear- ance, one should inquire whether they be not essentially linked together in function, but if this be not proved by subsequent inquiry, or a fortiori, if it be shown to be unlikely, then the argument arising from their co-develop- ment ceases to have much force. But if we decline accepting the theory pro- posed by Mr. Simon, are we to close, uncon- ditionally, with the other which has been above expounded, and which is but a modifi- * This is perhaps the more probable, seeing that the thymus does not assert its connection with organs of respiration taken generally, but only with a particular modification of them, so that its exist- ence is determined not so much by the degree in which the function is fulfilled as by the mode. Hence it is absent in the higher fishes and in insects.