854. SYMPATHY. of others. The penis, the beard, the vocal organs, experience a marked increase of de- velopment at the adult period of life simul- taneously with the enlargement of the testes; and, it may be added, in effect of their increase, because the early removal of these organs pre- vents the growth of the others. And so like- wise as the ovaria are developed, the uterus, the vulva, the mammae, increase in size; the ovarian and uterine irritation which accom- panies the menstrual flux causes enlargement of the breasts, which subsides as soon as that period has gone by. The various examples enumerated in the preceding paragraphs may be classed under three heads: first, sympathies between dif- ferent individuals ; secondly, those which affect the mind, and, through it, the body; and, thirdly, those which are strictly organic, and therefore physical. Of the first class of sympathies we can offer no physical explanation. Whether the ner- vous system of one individual can directly affect that of another, or whether the effect is produced on the imagination, and after- wards on the nervous system, are questions still sub Judice. The serpent fascinates his prey, apparently by the power of his eyes, and it is well known that one man can exert a marked control over another by a mere look; and in the same way man can control other animals, even the fiercest carnivora, by a firm and decided glance of the eyes. It is no explanation of sympathetic phenomena of this kind to ascribe them to the effect of a tendency to imitation. Imitation is voluntary; these actions are involuntary, or take place even in despite of the will.* In the second class of sympathetic pheno- mena, an affection of the mind is a necessary link. But why that affection of the mind should produce its peculiar effect is a question difficult to solve. Why should the perception of certain odours produce in one case in- creased action of the salivary glands, and in the other case cause syncope ? The only reply which can be made to this question is, that in these instances the impression on the senso- rium causes a change there analogous to that which an original affection of the mind of similar kind would produce, and therefore gives rise to effects of the same nature as those resulting from that mental change. Thus the smell of savoury food excites in the mind the idea of food, which in a hungry man would, if it occurred spontaneously, occasion a flow of saliva. And the odour which oc- casions syncope, creates in the mind an emo- tion of disgust, which, if it arose independently of the physical impression, would affect the heart through the centre of emotion. It is plain, however, that that portion of the ner- vous centre which is affected in such cases, must have a direct influence upon the parts in which the sympathetic phenomena appear; and this through commissural fibres, or the continuity of its gray matter with that of the centre from which its nerves immediately spring; thus, in the instances referred to, the * Bostock's Physiology, vol. iii. p. 227. centre of sensation, which is first affected, is, through the medulla oblongata, connected with the salivary glands by the fifth nerve, and with the heart by the vagus. We derive an explanation of the third class of sympathetic phenomena from the known laws of sensitive and motor nerves. It is known that stimulation of a sensitive nerve at its origin, or in any part of its course, will give rise to a sensation which will be re- ferred to the peripheral extremity of the sti- mulated fibres ; and that a stimulus applied to a motor nerve causes a change in it which spreads peripherad from the point stimulated, and therefore affects the muscular parts with which it is connected. It is known also, that a sentient nerve may excite a motor or sensi- tive nerve which is implanted near to it in the nervous centre — doubtless through the change which it produces in that centre ; nor can it be doubted that a sensitive nerve may receive such a powerful stimulus as to exalt the polar force of a large portion of the nervous centre in the neighbourhood of its insertion, and thus to excite a similar change in all the nerves, whether motor or sensitive, which are connected with it. Thus, ac- cording to the intensity of the original stimu- lus, there will be a radiation of nervous force from the centre, either in one or two motor or sensitive nerves, or in several such ; and the number and variety of the sympathetic phenomena will thus depend on the intensity and extent of the change in the nervous centre excited by the primary stimulus. To explain, then, the phenomena of sensa- tion and motion under consideration, we must determine the individual nerves affected in each instance, and ascertain what con- nexions they have with each other. We learn from anatomical investigation, that, al- though nerves anastomose with each other in their distribution, this anastomosis is by no means of that kind which would justify the supposition that an irritation could be com- municated from one to the other in their course. The nerve-fibres only lie in juxta- position, but do not communicate ; and there is an evident provision in the tubular mem- brane and white substance of Schwann for the insulation of the central axis, which is probably the effective substance in the nervous action. We must seek, therefore, in the nervous centres for such a communication be- tween these nerves as may explain the excita- bility of one by the other. In the present state of our knowledge we can do no more than state it as in the highest degree pro- bable that nerves implanted in the centre im- mediately contiguous to each other can exert an influence upon the vesicular matter of the centre, and upon each other. But there are certain facts which demon- strate beyond all doubt, that, in such actions as we refer to, the integrity of the centre forms a necessary condition. First, in many of the instances it is plain that there can be no connexion between the affected nerves elsewhere than in the centre, for they are so distinct from each other that there is not even