SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 8i2 Varieties occasionally observable in the verte- bral arteries. — I* Of origin.—a. It lias already been mentioned that the vertebral artery may arise from different portions of the first stage of the subclavian artery being sometimes nearer, and sometimes further removed, from the innominata; but, independently of these varieties, the vertebral artery on the right side is b. Sometimes furnished by the common carotid artery. In all the cases where this anomaly has been observed, the right subcla- vian artery was given off directly as a branch of the aorta. Again, c. The vertebral artery sometimes comes off from the arch of the aorta. This irre- gularity is as unfrequent on the right, as it is common on the left side. When the left vertebral artery springs from the arch of the aorta, it usually arises between the left carotid and the left subclavian arteries, though some- times its origin has been found to the left of all the other branches of the arch. d. In a few instances, more than one vessel has been found to constitute the origin of the vertebral artery; thus, it may be formed by the union of two roots, both arising from the subclavian artery, or one from the subclavian and the other from the aorta. In one exam- ple, where it was formed by three roots, two of these were derived from the subclavian, and the third from the inferior thyroid artery. These roots of the vertebral artery in some instances united before the artery had become engaged in the vertebral foramina, whilst in others the union took place subsequently. 2. Of size.—There is often a considerable difference in the size of the two vertebral arte- ries, which is stated to be most frequently in favour of that of the left side ; thus, in 98 ob- servations made by Mr. Davy, the left verte- bral artery was the larger in twenty-six, and the right in eight instances only. 3. Of course and relations.—The vertebrnl artery may enter the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra (though the contrary has been asserted), or it may enter one of the fo- ramina higher than that in the transverse pro- cess of the sixth, which latter it usually selects. When the artery enters any vertebra higher than the sixth cervical, it always occupies an unusually superficial position in the neck, lying external and parallel to the common carotid artery, for which, consequently, it is liable to be mistaken. (Vide Carotid Ar- tery.) The vertebral vein corresponds to the cer- vical stage only of the artery. Its origin is found in some branches from the deep muscles at the back of the neck, joined by one from the occipital vein, and by another which passes through the posterior condyloid fo- ramen. The vertebral vein traverses the canal in the transverse process of the atlas, and descends through the same foramina by which the artery ascends; whilst here it lies in front of the artery, and has the same relations as that vessel. Emerging from the foramen in the sixth vertebra, the vertebral vein (liable to the varieties already specified) opens into the vena innominata close to its junction with the internal jugular. II. Internal mammary artery.—This ar- tery arises (more externally than the ver- tebral) from the anterior surface of the sub- clavian, and near to the inner margin of the anterior scalenus muscle. From this origin it runs, first forwards, then downwards and inwards, and enters the thorax, lying between the pleura and the internal layer of intercostal muscles. Previous to entering the thorax, the in- ternal mammary artery is crossed anteriorly by the vena innominata and by the phrenic nerve : the latter intersects the artery ob- liquely from above and without, downwards and inwards. In the thorax, however, the nerve attains a position much posterior to the artery. The mammary artery descends on the back of the anterior parieties of the chest a little external to the junction of the costal cartilages with the sternum, and is covered posteriorly by the pleura at the line of reflexion of that membrane to form the side of the anterior mediastinum. Arrived at the cartilage of the third rib, the artery in its farther descent inclines a little outwards, and be- comes separated from the pleura by the fibres of the triangularis sterni; the vessel is now placed between that muscle, which lies behind it, and the internal layer of intercostal muscles and the cartilages of the lower true ribs, which constitute its anterior relations. Opposite the cartilage of the seventh rib the mammary artery terminates by dividing into two branches, an external and an internal. Branches of the mammary artery. — I. Mediastinal branches, which are distributed to the thymus gland {thymic arteries'), and the cellular issue of the anterior mediasti- num. 2. A descending muscular branch to the diaphragm (superior phrenic), also termed, from its so constantly accompanying the phrenic nerve, the comes nervi phrenici. This branch accompanies the nerve in a tortuous manner, between the pleura and the pericardium, to reach the upper surface of the diaphragm, where it anastomoses with the phrenic arte- ries from the aorta. 3. The anterior intercostal arteries.—These are distributed to the six upper intercostal spaces ; but their number is greater than that of the spaces for which they are destined, as two branches are frequently found between adjacent ribs, and this arrangement may even prevail in all of these intercostal spaces. The anterior intercostal arteries pass out- wards in the intervals between the two planes of intercostals, in which muscles some of their branches terminate; others are lost in anasto- mosing with the intercostal arteries from the aorta, whilst many perforate the muscular fibres, and, arriving on the external surface of the thorax, clip into the pectoral muscles