THORAX. 1042 internal measurements (cubic or diameter) clearly bear no relation to the height or weight of the man, whilst vital capacity * does so in an exact ratio. If we take a cast of the thoracic cavity and view the base, it presents the shape of the figures in diagram fig. 669. which gives a mean measurement, in the males of forty-six, and in females of thirty-five, superficial inches In the diagram (reduced by scale), we affix the height of each case, and the area in su- perficial inches of such section. But the base of the thorax presents another measurement, that of the absolute area of the diaphragm. By the Jigs. 2. and 3., art. Dia- phragm, this muscle will be noticed as a large muscle of a vaulted form. C.Jig. 670. repre- ents a section of a thorax, the measurement of Fig. 670. •lliiiimiiflHIti. ^mlllllllliiniiUK, Sup. Squ. in. 110 'HilllilP ipw"™"^ ,pP™Miili!:' 1 % 1°1 outside. I I §L J 74 inside Dimensions of the diaphragm in three stages. C, ordinary stage. B, spread out A, completely extended. D, relative difference between expiration and inspiration. which is forty superficial inches; the figure B, next above, is the diaphragm of the same per- son spread out, which is extended to 110 square inches, being nearly three times the area of the former figure ; even in this con- dition the centre is quite free, and not upon the stretch, though the circumference is so. The full measurement is nearly obtained, by slitting up the sides, as shown in figure A. and this condition gives it an increase of twenty-two superficial inches, making alto- gether 133 square inches; but even in this con- dition the entire arched muscle is not perfectly spread out. This was the diaphragm of a man five feet six inches high, with an exceedingly * By " vital capacity" is meant the measure of the mobility of the chest, as more fully explained hereafter. (P. 1056.) small chest, only twenty-nine inches in ex- ternal circumference, and whose vital capacity- was 188 cubic inches. The section, therefore, of the thorax to the area of the diaphragm is as 40 to 133, or 1 to 3'3. This renders the base of the thorax highly mobile. There is, perhaps invariably, a difference in the dimensions of the two sides of the thorax, in favour of the left side. The least difference which we observed was one cubic inch, but we think there must have been some error in this observation. Passing this over, we may say that the difference between the two sides varies from 10 to 77 cubic inches, and that, in all cases examined by us, the left side was larger than the right. This difference, also, we have found not to bear any relation to sex or stature. One female of 5 feet 4 inches in height had a difference of 77 cubic inches, which exceeds by 10 inches any of the males which we examined, up to 5 feet 10 inches high. Of the Respiratorv Muscles. — There are certain muscles especially destined to expand and contract the thoracic cavity, and there are others which act in different degrees as ac- cessories, they may be classed as direct and indirect respiratory muscles. The direct respirator}' muscles are, inter- costales externi and interni, levatores costarum, infra costa/es, triangularis sterni, and the dia- phragm. The indirect respiratory muscles are all those which straighten the spine or aid in fixing the whole body for the thoracic mus- cles to act from as a fixed point, whilst by their other attachment they elevate or depress the ribs; these are particularly the muscles of the neck and upper extremities, and those composing the walls of the abdo- men. More indirectly still, the muscles of the limbs assist in respiration; — in difficult respiration, the patient seizes hold of any fixed object, whilst he employs his whole muscular force to assist in inspiration, or, as Boerhaave has expressed it, " scarcely any particle remains in the body which is not more or less concerned in the business of respiration."* The indirect respiratory mus- cles, in fact, comprise nearly all the muscles of the body; therefore we shall only no- tice the direct respiratory muscles. The di- aphragm has already been described (art. Diaphragm). I. The intercostal muscles are arranged as two thin laminae between the ribs ; one lamella is external to the other, hence they are named external and internal. The fibres of each layer are oblique in their direction in reference to the ribs, and each layer has its fibres disposed in a contrary direction to those of the other; thus they are said to decussate. The twelve ribs form eleven intercostal spaces, conse- quently there are eleven such decussating lamellas on each side of the thorax, and twenty- two in all. Their attachments are to the in- ferior border of one rib, and to the superior * Prelect, ad Instit. 601. Morgagni. By Alex, ander, vol. i. p. 357.