VISION. 1458 Wartmann* has related a case supposed not to have been congenital; this, however, is uncertain; the particulars are interesting, es- pecially as valuable information, to which we have referred, was obtained from this patient. M. Louis D was the eldest of seven brothers and four sisters, who were assorted in a very singular category. The first set had red hair, and their vision was perfect ; the others had fair hair, and all were unable to distinguish colours. Louis D belonged to the latter, as regards external appearances, but according to his own recollection, and the evidence of his mother, he perceived colours during his infancy, in the usual manner. At the age of nine years his skull was fractured, after which bis perception of colours appears to have become defective. The fact however of his brothers, who resembled him in ap- pearance, being similarly affected from birth, weakens the chain of evidence on this point. His infirmity was for some time unknown, and his father endeavoured, by repeated cor- poral punishment, to put a stop to what he called a perverse pretence, and a severe cor- rection was administered by his master, a bookbinder, because he used red paper, in- stead of green, for the covers of some books. Temporary Achromatopsy. — This form ap- pears to us not to have received the attention it merits, having been passed over in silence, or only cursorily alluded to, by the great majority of writers. The exciting causes are congestion, hepatic derangement, and dys- pepsia, and it may exist in conjunction with more or less amaurosis, or by itself, as a simple derangement of vision. The first case we shall relate is highly in- teresting from the marked maniter in which the insensibility to colours existed, its dura- tion and satisfactory disappearance as restora- tion to health proceeded. It occurred in the practice of that very able physician, Dr. Ilays.-)- Mary Bishop, aelat. twenty, was admitted into the Wills Hospital, Feb. 9, 1639. She was of short, robust stature, full habit, very dark complexion, black hair, and hazel h ides, flushed face, colour of her cheeks at times almost of a purplish hue; catamenia sup- pressed. In 1837 and 1838 she had suffered from two attacks of cerebral disease ; after the first attack, objects appeared double. The second attack left her entirely blind, in which condition she continued for four months. After this her sight began to return, and at the period of her admission into the hospital, she could read large print. When she came under the notice of Dr. Hays, in May, 1839, she had been largely depleted, and had taken remedies for the restoration of the catamenia, under which treatment her sight had im- proved. At this time it was discovered that she was unable to distinguish colours, yellow and blue being the only ones she could name with certainty. Nearly all others she termed brown, or hesitated to name, designating how- * Op. cit. t American Jouvn. of Medical Sciences, vol. xxvi. p. --'77. ever their shades; or intensity of colour accu- rately. Thus she called a deep red, dark brown; a bright green, light brown; and very pale pink, very light shade of brown. The patient was not sensible at first that she laboured under any particular defect in distinguishing colours. She had noticed, that grass and roses did not appear as formerly, and she remembered that as her sight began to re- turn, the first colour she perceived was yel- low. The usual treatment for amenorrhea was adopted, and on the 29th of May the catamenia returned copiously, but continued only for a single day. It was followed, however, by a very marked improvement in vision. Roses now appeared to her of their natural colour, and she could distinguish the difference be- tween the colour of the rose and that of the leaves, which she had not previously been able to do. By the middle of June she was able to see the eye of a needle and the end of a thread, but could not thread the needle from inability to see both at the same time. At this period she was again examined with the prismatic spectrum, and distinguished pretty accurately the yellow, blue, green, and red, but was doubtful as to the orange. On the 30th of November it is stated that her sii^ht was good, notwithstanding another attack of congestion and suppression of the menses. She distinguished all the primitive colours readily, and named most of the secondary ones as correctly as could be expected, with the exception of violet, which she was at a loss to name. A gentleman, aged 3G, librarian to one of our medical colleges, has communicated to me the particulars of his own case in the follow- ing words : " A few years ago I noticed that on getting out of bed, and looking at a new carpet which had been laid down but a short time, I was unable to distinguish the colours, though I could clearly make out the pattern, which appeared simply black and white. I felt rather alarmed, and asked my wife if it was the same carpet. She assured me it was, and inquired my reason for putting the ques- tion. On telling her, she at once suspected I had taken some bad wine at a public dinner I had attended over-night. I may add that I have invariably experienced the same effects after dining out, more especially if I take more than one kind of wine ; and of this I take but little, in consequence of the severe illness I experience on the following morning. If I take grog or punch, the symptoms, including the loss of power of seeing colours, are still more severe." Simple congestion of the head and eyes, especially when accompanied with fatigue, is also an exciting cause of achromatopsy. Ruete states, that a girl suddenly lost the faculty of distinguishing colours as a conse- quence of congestion ; and we have known instances produced by exhaustion. A clergyman, 45 years of age, of full habit, but enjoying good health, was performing Di- vine service in the month of June, 185), and felt fatigued and oppressed by heat and the