VISION. 1443 contraction of the pupil, arresting the progress of those rays which are too divergent, anil limiting those entering the eye to the central rays, which, from their trifling divergence, unite correctly on the retina. The same ad- vantage is gained hy a near-sighted, and by a presbyopic eye. In the one case vision is im- proved by the card stopping the rays, which woidd converge to foci in front of the retina ; in the other, by its arresting those which tend to foci behind the retina. So that tin's simple experiment frequently makes a difference of several inches in the vision of myopic and presbyopic persons. A curious experiment devised by Father Scheiner, has reference to this point. If we make in a card two small orifices with a needle, at a less distance from each other than the diameter of the pupil, and hold these openings close to the eye, a double image of a small object held within the visual distance, — a pin's head, for instance — will be seen. From the pin's head there pass two very minute pencils of rays through the apertures into the eye. These rays converge towards a point lying behind the retina, and fall upon the retina at two different points. These are two isolated points of the circle of dispersion, which would exist upon the retina, if the other rays were not intercepted by the card. If we now withdraw the pin's head more and more, the images will approach, because the rays, falling upon the eye through the apertures, will diverge less, and will conse- quently be refracted towards a point lying nearer to the retina. If the object be re- moved from the eye to the distance of distinct vision, the two images will perfectly coincide, since all rays passing from one point, lying exactly at the distance of distinct vision, will be concentrated at one point of the retina. It may be asked, what are the conditions of adaptation necessary for an eye in looking through a fine aperture? In its normal con- dition, for the maintenance of which no effort is necessary, the eye is in the state necessary for seeing objects which lie at the distance of distinct vision. If a distant object be re- garded through the small apertures, the rays passing through them into the eye must evi- dently meet at one point before the retina, as the condition of each adaptation does not change in the eye: but the two pencils di- verge again behind the point of intersection, striking the retina at two different points, when, consequently, distant objects will be seen double ; therefore, we only see a small object single, through two small apertures, when it lies at the distance of distinct vision. This experiment of Scheiner led Dr. Porter- field to invent an instrument called an op- tometer, for the determination of the focal distance of the eye ; and Dr. Young sub- sequently greatly improved upon it, his in- strument being simple in construction, and both convenient and accurate in its applica- tion. The greatest distance of human vision is so variable, that no arbitrary limits can be as- signed to it. Uncivilised tribes, as the North American Indians, the inhabitants of the im- mense Asiatic steppes, and the New Zealan- ders, possess powers of sight which are almost incredible. It is interesting, however, to remark, that the mean degree of capability of vision was the same among the ancient Greeks and Romans as at the present day. The Pleiades furnish the proof of this, showing that some thousand years ago, as now, stars which astronomers call of the seventh mag- nitude, were not visible to the naked eye in persons of ordinary powers of vision. Even among civilised nations, however, instances are occasionally met with of extraordinarily keen sight. General Drinkwater, in his 1 History of the Siege of Gibraltar," mentions that there were two boys in the garrison pos- sessed of such uncommon quickness of sight, that they could see the shots fired by the enemy almost immediately after they had quitted the guns, and were constantly em- ployed to look out and give warning to the soldiers of the approach of these missiles. From the experiments of Harris, it seems that a simple object, as a black square on a white ground, or a white square on a black ground, can be seen under a less angle than the equal parts of a compound object, as the squares of a chequered figure, and that their least, or minimum visible angle cannot be less than 40'': others, however, say 30". If it is 40", the size of the image on the retina will be -jijoo inch. At a medium, Harris thinks it not less than 2'. He remarks that the diffi- culty of keeping the eye perfectly steady, may be one cause why a single object can be dis- cerned under a less angle than the parts of a complex one ; and that it is natural to sup- pose that the fewer objects we contemplate, and the more they differ in colour, the easier we can distinguish their several impressions on the retina. The result of repeated and very careful experiments by Hueck, tends to show that white objects on a black ground are seen at a greater distance than black objects on a white ground *, and this is fully corroborated by an instance mentioned by Humboldt. This distinguished traveller wras with Bonpland, at * The following facts, deduced from extensive and very careful experiments, conducted by Lieut.- Colonel Hamilton Smith, are of great practical im- portance. The object was to ascertain the liability of different colours to be hit as marks, tinder pre- cisely similar circumstances, as to men engaged, size of target, weather, &c. The result showed the proportion to be as follows . — Red, 12. Rifle-green, 7. Austrian blueish-grey, 5. Colonel Derinzy, who was actively engaged in the Peninsular War, has given much attention to the effect of different coloured uniforms on the chances of being hit. The day before the battle of Vittoria, bis Portuguese rifle company, dressed in earthy-brown, and a company of British Fusileers, of equal strength, dressed in red, had to dislodge the French from a bridge. They were equally exposed during the whole of the skirmish, and after it was over, Colonel Derinzy compared notes with his Fusileer comrade, and found that the relative losses were precisely one to two.' This fact (for which we are indebted to Captain Nelson, r.e.) strikingly 4 z 2