1326 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. Fin. 821. Fig. 822. Cranium of Masacusi Indian. (From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College o f Surgeons.) take a survey of the African nations, we find the prognathous type gradually softened down (so to speak) among them, until in some of the races of undoubted African descent, in- habiting the Nile valley, it merges into the oval. We have already noticed the curious admixture of the pyramidal and prognathous types which is seen in the Hottentot races ; and among the widely spread and isolated tribes by which Oceania is peopled, the same com- bination is exhibited in various degrees. For Fig. 823. whilst the skulls of the Malayan portion of the population are referable to the pyramidal type rather than to any other, those of many native Australians, and of various islanders designated as " Pelagian Negroes," are almost purely prognathous, presenting but a very slight indication of a pyramidal tendency about the upper part of the face ; and between these there is every degree of gradation. Thus, in the Australian skull, delineated in figs. 823, 824, there is decidedly less prognathism Fig. 824.. Cranium of Aboriginal Australian. {From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.') than in that already described (Jig. 808.) ; and in the skull of the Tahitian (Jig. 825), with about the same amount of prognathism, there Fig. 825. Cranium of a Tahitian. (From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) is a considerably less degree of antero- posterior elongation ; in both these skulls, age of European skulls, than the latter varied from each other. moreover, the upper part of the face, when seen in front, shows a decidedly pyramidal tendency. So, again, the Greenlanders are ranked by Professor Retzius among his Do/i- chocephalcB prognathic, along with the Negroes and Australians, although the upper part of the face is often most characteristically pyra- midal ; and even the Brachiocephalic Tartars and Kalmuks are reckoned by him suffi- ciently prognathous to be separated from the Finns, Lapps, Turks, &c. These facts, to which many more might be added, should be sufficient to convince every philosophic naturalist, who duly estimates what is required for the establishment of spe- cific distinctions, that none such can be laid down among the different races of mankind, upon the foundation of cranial conformation alone. Those ethnologists who hold the doctrine of originally distinct stocks, which (they maintain) have continued to preserve their characteristic features through succes- sive generations, have been obliged to admit, not three or five varieties of cranial conform-