1476 VOICE. futile in the present state of the science of acoustics to attempt any mathematical solu- tion of the laws of the equilibrium and move- ments of the heterogeneous masses of the vocal tube. When, however, a membrane is stretched in one direction only, it obeys the same laws as a string. Fig. 890. An outline of the transverse section of the Human Larynx. (Outline of fig. 18, Vol. III. p. 100, in which the different parts are indicated.) x,x, the plane of the vibrating position of the vocal cord; y,yy,y, the plane of the respiratory posi- tion. Having adapted two laminae of India rubber to a pipe connected with the bellows of an organ, M. Biot caused a current of air to pass over their free edges, by which means he obtained with facility sounds of different pitch. Professor Willis made similar expe- riments with leather and caoutchouc, but could not produce with these substances so great a range of tones as the glottis will yield, and therefore concluded that the vocal ligaments possess greater elasticity. Mr. Willis has also investigated the position in which it is necessary that membranous laminae should be placed, in order that they may be excited and sustained in a state of vibration. He has likewise given a satisfactory explana- tion of the mode of action of the air on reeds, such as those of the organ pipe, which applies also to free reeds, and every other case where a vibratory motion is maintained by a current of air. The experiments and theory of Mr. Willis are exceedingly important, for lie has shown that in ordinary breathing the vocal cords remain inclined to each other, at an angle which prevents any vibratory motion ; whereas when their surfaces lie in the same plane, the breath immediately excites them into a state of vibration ; the natural position of the vocal cords in these two states is seen in (fig. 890). Miiller also made some experiments on stretched membranous bands, both isolated, and in connection with a tube ; from which he concludes that the iorce of the current of air influences the pitch of the note produced; so that a strong current will produce a more acute tone than a weak one, and vice versa ; but the author has not found this to be the case in any of the experiments which he has made. To obtain a pure quality of tone when two membranous bands are stretched across a tube, it is necessary that they should be of equal weight and length, and subjected to equal tension, otherwise they cannot vibrate freely in equal periods of time. Ac- cording to Cagniard De la Tour, if two mem- branous lamina? of equal length and weight be stretched by unequal forces, so that there is an interval of a fifth between the notes they yield separately, the note resulting from their combined action is the intervening third. Miiller is disposed to doubt the accuracy of De La Tour, but his own views do not differ ma- terially from those of the latter, as he says that when one tongue is most readily thrown into vibrations by the current of air, the sound is emitted by it alone, but if the blast is such that it throws them both into motion, they may both vibrate together, and by reciproca- tion produce a simple sound intermediate between the fundamental note of the two vibrating separately ; they may also emit two distinct sounds, or the blast being modified, the two sounds may be produced in suc- cession. From these researches it appears, that membranous lamina?, stretched in imi- tation of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, will not only vibrate readily, but produce a range of musical tones. It has been remarked that sounds are most readily produced when the two laminae are stretched in the same plane, and that a smaller volume of air is required the nearer the edges of the lamina? approach each other, and a still smaller one when their edges actually touch. De Kempelen states, that to produce sound, the edges of the glottis must be approximated to within -JL. or at least of an inch. These experi- ments upon artificial vibrating tongues per- fectly agree with those the author has made on the larynxes of animals. Owing to the nature of the articulation of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage, and the manner in which the crico-thyroid muscles act, an equal ten- sion of both the thyro-arytenoid ligaments is simultaneously secured, supposing the aryte- noid cartilages to be at the same time in corresponding positions, which is a necessary condition for the production of a synchronous vibratory motion in the two lips of the glottis.