VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1306 variation have been clearly determined in the case of any species which is known to exhibit the tendency, it is obviously impossible to erect specific distinctions that shall possess anything but a provisional value ; and thus the naturalist may feel a confident assurance of the genuineness of one set of species in a natural group, whilst he is utterly at a loss respecting another. Reverting, then, to the " idea" of a species, as involving descent from a common, or at any rate from a similar parentage, in all the in- dividuals composing it, we have to aim at ascertaining, in the case of two or more beings whose specific identity or distinctness is a question for our determination, whether their characters are presented so fixedly and deter- minately in all the individuals of the same and of successive generations, as to justify us in believing that they have been thus preserved through all time, and under all changes of external conditions. According to the amount and correctness of our information upon this question, will be the validity of our specific distinctions; on the other hand, according to the hastiness and crudity of our decision, will be its liability to be overthrown by subsequent researches. Of course, where the progeny of any known stock can be traced through a long period of time, and under great varieties of external conditions, and their successive variations have been noted, this evidence must outweigh every argument founded upon the supposed importance of the characters which are found to undergo modification. But such opportunities are too frequently wanting ; and the naturalist is obliged to have recourse to means of discrimination which are less certain, but which will frequently conduct him, pro- vided that his researches have been sufficiently extensive, to a satisfactory conclusion. The great point at which he should aim, is the assemblage of as many forms as possible of each type ; and having done so, he will care- fully compare them with each other, for the sake of determining whether the supposed specific characters are constant and well- marked throughout, or whether they tend to run together by intermediate gradations. If the first of these should prove to be the case, great confidence may be entertained of their genuineness; but if the second, we may feel an almost certain assurance of their invalidity. Thus, to revert to the case of the apple and the pear, the persistence of their distinctive characters through all the numerous varieties of each, renders it almost certain, that in all other varieties which may hereafter present themselves, the same constancy will obtain; and that it has obtained during the entire suc- cession of generations of pears and apples, from the time of their first propagation. But let us take an opposite case. Two Terebratnlce are brought together from different parts of the great Southern Ocean, the one of which has the edges of the valves of the shell thrown into deep plications, whilst in the other they are quite smooth. Now in most other Bivalve Mollusca, such a difference would be justly admitted to afford a valid specific character , and the conchologist who had only these two shells before him, would be justified, by the usual rules of the science, in ranking each as a distinct specific type. But as his col- lection extends, intermediate forms come into his possession; and at last he finds that he can make a continuous series, passing, by the most gradual transition, from the smoothest to the most deeply plicated form. Thus, then, the supposed validity of this distinction is altogether destroyed ; and it becomes evident that the most plicated and the smoothest of these Terebratulce must be regarded as be- longing to one and the same species, notwith- standing the marked diversity of their extreme forms. Hence, whilst new types are continually being discovered, the progress of research is tending to diminish the number of species previously enumerated ; for there are many groups in which an immense reduction has been effected, by bringing together all those which are found to be nothing else than suc- cessive stages of the same individual, and by ranking under one designation all those which are either known or strongly suspected to be mere varieties, resulting from the direct influ- ence of external conditions upon themselves or upon their ancestors, or produced through the obscurer operation of these influences on the act of generation. Frequently it is found that forms which have even been accounted generically distinct, are in reality specifically identical. Thus it has been shown by Pro- fessor Henslow, that the " rust of corn" (Uredo rubigo) is but an earlier form of the " mildew " {Puccinia graminis) ; the one form being capable of development into the other; and the fructification characteristic of the two supposed genera having been produced from the same individual. And it is asserted by Fries, that out of a single species of Thelephora, more than eight genera of Fungi have been con- structed by various authors. So among higher plants, the invalidity of the generic distinctions on which reliance is usually placed, has been shown, so far as the Orchideous tribe is con- cerned, by the fact that the same individual has borne the flowers and pseudo-bulbs usually accounted characteristic of three distinct genera, and that another individual has pre- sented the character of a fourth. * So in the animal kingdom, it has been shown by Pro- fessor Milne Edwards, that the polypidom of Tubulipora verrucosa, according to the circum- stances under which it grows, may present the characters of three other reputed genera. If it be attached to a plane surface, as the expanded lamina of a sea-weed, it remains circular, and * For the first of these cases, see the Linn asan Transactions, vol. xvii. The second fell under the writer's own observation in the Durham Down Nursery, near Bristol; here, also, three different forms, generally considered as generically distinct were presented ; and two of them were the same as in the preceding case : but the third was one not exhibited by that plant.