STATISTICS. 801 In such instances, there is little appearance of any thing morbid beyond the increase of size. The contained blood is usually very dark, and the spleen shares the deepening of colour. By long duration, the capsule of the organ and the fibrous tissues generally, be- come somewhat thickened, but in other re- spects the texture is little altered. In the second class, in which the swelling is pro- bably produced by a peculiar state of the blood (dyscrasia), and is certainly associated with a class of blood diseases, the texture of the organ is usually much altered. The size of the spleen is often astonishingly increased, so that it possesses a volume of from 100 to 300 cubic inches, and a weight of 10-20 lbs. The increase includes, besides blood, a considerable quantity of a fibrinous material, the nature of which, and its relations to the healthy organ, are at present little known. The colour and consistence are of every possible gradation; from greyish to deep brownish red, or from a soft, friable mass, to a dense, firm, and almost fibrous texture. There is a general relation of these changes to the date and duration of the swelling ; thus in acute or recent cases, the organ is usually soft and of a dark colour, while by long continuance, or in chronic diseases, its consistence is greatly increased, and its colour, as well as that of the contained blood, is much paler or greyer than natural. Atrophy of the spleen, or slow and permanent diminution of its size, is much more infrequent than the preceding converse condition. It is associated with similar varieties of colour and consistence. Inflammation of the spleen. — The peritoneal surface of the organ shares in the diseases of this structure generally, and an inflammation of this part of the serous membrane not un- frequently accompanies the enlargements pre- viously mentioned. The exsudation and re- sults are no way peculiar. Concerning in- flammation of the parenchyma of the splten little can at present be said. The large and numerous veins which it contains are liable to inflammation, the secondary being the more frequent form of phlebitis which affects them. As regards other morbid products, organ- ised and unorganised, the spleen offers no- thing deserving a special notice. Bibliography. — M. Malpighi, De Liene, in Exercitationibus de Viscerum Structura, Lond. 1669. 12. F. Ruysch, De Glandulis, Films, Cellu- lisque Lienalibus, Epist. Anat. Quart. Opera omnia. A. V. Leeuwenhoeli, Microscopical Observations on the Structure of the Spleen, Phil. Transact. 1706, p. 23(15. T. Douglass, Observations on the Glands in the Human Spleen, Phil. Transact. 1714, p. 499. W, Stuckeley, Of the Spleen, its Description and History, Uses and Diseases, Lond. 1722. B. S. Alb!»us, De Liene, in Anotat. Academ. lib. vii. cap. 14. p. 84. De Lasone, Histoire Anatomique de la Rate, Memoires de l'Acade'm. de Paris, 1754. T. Lieutaud, Observation sur la Grosseur Naturelle de la Pate, Mem. de l'Acad. de Paris, 1788. W. Hew- son. Experimental Inquiries, Lond. 1776; et Opus Posthumum, Lugd. Bot, 1786. L. et T. P. Asso- lanti, Recherches sur la Rate, Paris, 1801. A. Mores- chi, Del vero e prlmario Uso della Milza nell 'Uomo VOL. IV. e in tutti gli Animali Vertebrati, Milano, 1803. Benj. Rush, An Inquiry into the Functions of the Spleen, &c, Philadelphia, 1806. Ecerard Home, On the Structure and Uses of the Spleen, Philos. Transact, for 1808, p. 45.; further Experiments on the Spleen, p. 133.; Experiments, &c., ibid. 1811. C. F. Heusinger, Ueber den Bau und die Verrichtung der Milz, Eisenach, 1817. F. Tiedemann und L. Gmelin, Versuche iiber die Wege, auf welehen Sub- stanzen aus dem Magen und Darm im Blut gelan- gen, iiber die Verrichtung der Milz und die gehei- men Harnwege, Heidelberg, 1820. T. Hodghin, On the Uses of the Spleen, Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ., 1822, p. 83. Dobson, Lond. Med. and Phys. Journal, 1830, Oct. G. C. Holland, Physiology" of the Foetus, Liver, and Spleen, London, 1831. T. Midler, Ueber die Structurder eigenthumliehen Kor- perchen in der Milz einiger pflanzenfressender Sau- gethiere, Mull. Arch., 1834. T. C. H Giesher, Spleno- logie, oder anatomisch-physiologische Untersuchun- gen iiber die Milz, Zurich, 1835. M. T. Evans, Lond. Edinb. and Dubl. Phil. Mag., 1833. Nov. Schwager- Bardeleben, Observations Microscopies* de Glandu- larum Ductu Excretorio earentium Structura, &c. Berol. 1841. Th. v. Hessling, Untersuchungen iiber die weissen Korperchen der menschlichen Milz, Regenzburg, 1842. i". Reid, Lond. and Edinb. Monthly Journ., 1843. Apr. Ft. Oesterlen, Beitrage zur Physiologie des gesunden und kranken Orga- nismus, Jena, 1843, pp. 41—52. E. Huschke, Lehre von den Eingeweiden und Sinnesorganen, Leipzig, 1844. Schlemm, Berliner Worterbuch der medicin. Wissensehaften, Band xxiii. Th. 435. Ch. Poelmann, Memoire sur la Structure et les Fonctions de la Rate, Annales et Bulletin de la Socie'te de Me'decine de Gand, 1846, Dec. C. Hand-field Jones, On the Yel- low Corpuscles of the Spleen, Lond. Med. Gazette, 1847, Jan. John Simon, On the Thymus Gland, Lond. 1845. A. Kolliker, Ueber den Bau unci die Verrich- tungen der Milz, in Mittheilungen der Ziiricher naturforschenden Gesellschaft, 1847. A. Eeher, Ueber die Veranderungen welche die Blutkorper- chen in der Milz erleiden, in Zeitschrift fur rationelle Medicin, Band vi. 1847. C. B. Heinrich, Die Krank- heiten der Milz, Leipzig, 1847. T. Landis, Beitrage zur Lehre iiber die Verrichtungen der Milz, Zurich, 1847. Gerlach, Ueber die Blutkorperehenhalten- den Zellen der Milz, in Zeitschrift fur rationelle Medicin, Band vii. 1848. T. Beclard, Recherches expeiimentales sur les Fonctions de la Rate et sur celles de la Veine Porte, Archives Gene'rales de Me- dicine, Paris, 1848, Oct. Nov. Dec. ( Albert Kolliker.) * STATISTICS, MEDICAL. — The Sta- tistical Method; the Numerical Method. La Methode Numerique. — It is to be regretted that the use of numbers in any branch of scientific inquiry should have seemed to need a special name ; for the name has given rise to prejudices and misconceptions which could never have attached to the thing signified. There is no science which has not sooner or later discovered the absolute necessity of re- sorting to figures as measures and standards of comparison ; nor is there any sufficient reason why physiology and medicine should claim an exemption denied to every other branch of human knowledge. On the con- trary, they belong in an especial manner to the class of sciences which may hope to de- rive the greatest benefit from the use of num- * The Editor is indebted to his friend Dr. Brinton, for the translation of the article on the normal anatomy of the spleen from the German MSS. of Professor Kolliker, and for the sketch of the abnor- mal anatomy. 3 F