TUNICATA. 1207 sinus is a kind of pulmonary artery. But when this state of things has lasted some minutes, the direction of the peristaltic move- ment of the heart is inverted, and the blood, instead of traversing the branchial network from below upwards as previously, moves from above downwards, and passes from the great thoracic sinus into the heart. The latter is then an aortic ventricle, and the sinus a branchial vein or aortic auricle. In a very fresh and uninjured individual, of Cynthia am- pulla, Van Beneden counted 45 contractions in one direction; and then, after a rest during the space of two pulsations, he counted ICO to 170 in the other, the pulsations being about 70 per minute. In injecting the vascular system of the simple Ascidians, M. Delle Chiaje thought he found certain valvules so disposed as to hinder the return of the blood from the aorta into the cavity of the heart, or from passing again from the heart into the vessels through which it had arrived there. But by careful observa- tions on living specimens, both Milne Edwards and Van Beneden have established the fact, that, as in the Botrylitdce, the Salpidee, and the other Ascidian families, the blood of the Ascidiadce, after having flowed for some time in one direction, traverses the same circle in an opposite direction; a condition that would he impossible were any valvular hindrances to return currents of the blood present. In Chelyosoma*, the heart is very distinctly seen in the animal when dissected ; it lies near the oesophagus, and has two distinct chambers. The aorta rising from its anterior part is a stoutish vessel, and at first lies close to the in- testine : it afterwards runs in the space within the intestinal loop, ultimately breaking up into largish branches, distributed on every side. The ramifications divide some 4 or 5 times, and terminate somewhat abruptly, the extre- mities appearing as if closed. Throughout the surrounding generative organs there is a very fine network of vessels, but whether they are arteries, veins, or gland-ducts is un- decided. A largish vessel running along the left side of the stomach and duodenum ap- pears to return the blood to the branchial sac. Mr. MacLeay describes the heart of Cys- tingia as being large, ovoidal, and of a lobular appearance ; and having four vertical, lateral openings, capable of considerable dilatation. In Cynthia ampulla the heart is placed a little within the great intestinal loop, and near the middle of the body : it is fixed on an oblong vesicle, enclosing calcareous concre- tions. This vesicle is situated exterior to and above the first or principal bend of the intestine. Its colour is a greenish yellow, and it has apparently no aperture, or commu- nication with other organs. The heart itself is a slightly bent tube, with very elastic walls : it has two openings; a single large aperture on one part, and opposite to it three ves- * Described by Eschricht (Royal Danish Trans, vol. ix. p. 12.), to whom we are indebted for much valuable information, both with respect to this genus and the Salpians. sels that carry off' the blood in different di- rections.* " The circulation of the Ascidians," says Van Beneden, " differs but little from that of the Bryozoa; and is transitional between that of the Polypes and of the Molluscs. If we re- move the heart of the Ascidian, the disposi- tion of parts is very similar, and the simpli- fication of an apparatus cannot more visibly take place. The Ascidia is but a digestive canal suspended in the midst of external mem- branes, with a liquid moving in the peri- intestinal space. A colourless liquid (blood) occupies this cavity ; but it is only in the branchial network and tentacles that it can be said to be contained in vessels. All around the intestinal tube this fluid is alter- nately moved from right to left, and vice versa. In the vessels composing the vascular net- work, and in the respiratory tentacles, the same movement of the nutrient fluid takes place. This blood contains somewhat regular globules, white as the containing liquid, that indicate the course of the fluid. In some in- dividuals the blood is yellowish. M. Milne- Edwards has observed an Ascidia with red blood."f Mr. Lister observed that in a sessile Ascidian half an inch long, the blood-globules were about the same size as those of the minute Perophora, viz. from "00025 to "0002 inch in diameter. Van Beneden, to whom we are indebted for so much information with regard to simple Ascidians in general and Cynthia ampulla in particular, has observed in living specimens of this species, that the blood is distributed to each branchial trunk at the same time, and with the same direction, ascending and de- scending alternately. According to this, the heart, contracting in one direction, sends blood towards the branching, filling all the vessels at one time, and recalls it by contract- ing in an opposite direction. That a series of contractions in one direction, during a certain time, may take place without engorgement, there must be a direct communication between the branchiae and the peri-intestinal cavity; and this is afforded, according to Van Beneden, by the respiratory tentacles, see p. 1202. Seen under the microscope, the contractile tissue of the heart affords no trace of mus- cular fibre. The contractility remains some time after the removal of this organ from the body ; and that without being irritated. Nervous system. — A single ganglion, oval, soft, consisting of a saclike neurilemma, enclos- ing nerve-cells or neurine, placed in the sub- stance of the mantle, and between its two tubu- lar orifices, gives off'four branches, two of the branches forming a loop around either tube, and other lesser filaments distributed about * In the Physiological Series of the Hunterian Museum there is a highly illustrative dissection of kC. tuherculata (No. 898" B.), prepared by Prof. Owen, that beautifully exhibits the heart and its pericardium, the branchial vessels, partially in- jected, and other organs. j- Recherch.es Zoologiques faites pendant un Voyage en Sicile. Comptes Rendus, 23 Nov. 18-M. til 4