VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1296 external and constantly-acting power. But for this there is neither in the skeleton, the ligamentous apparatus, nor the muscular sys- tem of Man, any adequate provision ; so that in any other than the vertical position, his head, which is relatively heavier than that of most Mammalia, would be supported with more difficulty and effort than it is in any other animal. The position of the face immediately be- neath the anterior portion of the cranial cavity, so that its front is nearly in the same plane as the forehead, is peculiarly character- istic of Man ; for the crania of the Chimpanzee and Orang, which approach most nearly to that of man, are entirely posterior to, not above, the face (see Jigs. 800—802.). It should be remarked that in the young ape, there is a much greater resemblance to man in this re- spect, than there is in the adult; for it is at the time of the second dentition, that the muzzle of the ape acquires its peculiar elonga- tion and consequent projection in front of the forehead ; and the whole cast of the features is altered at the same time, so as to approxi- mate much more closely to that of the lower Quadrumana than would have been thought likely from the inspection of the young ani- mal only. This projection of the muzzle, taken in connection with the obliquity of the condyles, is another evidence of want of adaptation to the erect posture; whilst the want of prominence in the face of Man shows that none but the erect position can be natural to him. For supposing that with a head formed and situated as at pre- sent, he were to move upon all fours, his face would be brought into a plane parallel with the ground ; so that as painful an effort would be required to examine with the eyes an object placed in front of the body, as is now necessary to keep the eyes fixed on the zenith ; the nose would then be almost inca- pacitated for receiving any other odorous emanations, than those proceeding from the earth or from the body itself; and the mouth could not touch the ground, without bringing the forehead and chin also in contact with it. The obliquity of the eomtyles in the Qua- drumana enables them without much difficulty to adapt the inclination of their heads either to the horizontal or to the erect posture; but the natural position, in the highest among them, is unquestionably one in which the spinal column is inclined, the body being par- tially thrown forwards, so as to rest upon the anterior extremities ; and in this position, the face is directed forwards without any effort. The vertebral column in Man, although not absolutely straight, has its curves so arranged, that when the body is in the erect posture, a vertical line from its summit would fall exactly on the centre of its base. It increases con- siderably in size in the lumbar region, so as to be altogether somewhat pyramidal in its form. The lumbar portion, in the chim- panzee and orang, is by no means of the same proportional strength, and contains but four vertebrae instead of five. The processes for the attachment of the dorso-spinal muscles to this part, are peculiarly large and strong in man ; and this arrangement is obviously adapted to overcome the tendency, which the weight of the trunk in front of' the column would have to draw it forwards and down- wards. On the other hand, the spinous pro- cesses of the cervical and dorsal vertebra;, which in other Mammalia are large and strong, for the attachment of the ligaments and muscles that support the head, have compara- tively little prominence in man, whose head is balanced upon the summit of the column. The base of the human vertebral column is placed on a sacrum of greater proportional breadth than that of any other animal ; this sacrum is fixed between two widely expanded ilia; and the whole pelvis is thus peculiarly broad. In this manner the fe- moral articulations are thrown very far apart, so as to give a wide basis of' support ; and by the oblique direction of the axis of the pelvis, the weight of the body is trans- mitted almost vertically from the top of the sacrum to the upper part of the thigh bones. The pelvis of the anthropoid apes is very differently constructed. That of the orang, for example, is much longer and narrower ; its alas extend upwards rather than outwards, so that the space between the lowest ribs anil the crest of the iliac bones is much less than in man; their surfaces are nearly parallel to that of the sacrum, which is itself longer and narrower; and the axis of the pelvis is nearly parallel with that of the verte- bral column. The position of the human femur, in which its head is most securely retained in its deep acetabulum, is that which it has when supporting the body in the erect attitude; in the chimpanzee and orang, its analogous position is at an oblique angle to the long axis of the pelvis, so that the body leans forwards in front of it; in many of the four-footed Mammalia, as the elephant, it makes a right angle with the vertebral column ; and in several others, as the horse, ox, &c, the angle which it makes with the axis of the pelvis and vertebral column is acute. In this respect, then, the skeleton of man presents an adaptation to the erect pos- ture, which is exhibited by that of no other mammal. The lotver extremities of Man are remark- able for their length, which is proportionally greater than that which we find in any other mammalia, excepting the kangaroo and a few other leaping animals. The chief difference in their proportional length, between man and the semi-erect apes, is seen in the thigh ; and from the relative length of this part in him, and the comparative shortness of his anterior extremities, it happens that the hands of Man, when he is standing erect, only reach to the middle of his thighs, whilst in the Chimpanzee they hang on a level with the knees, and in the Orang they descend to the ancles. The human femur is distinguished by its form and position, as well as by its length. The obli- quity of its neck still further increases the