SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 839 appear to behave differently. Part of them by bursting arrive at the end of their career. They do not become distended with secretion a second time, but the gland-vesicles cease to exist as such in consequence of further meta- morphosis. The ovary, the vesicles of which disappear by the formation of a corpus luteum, affords a proof of the occurrence of this pro- cess. While, on the contrary, other gland- vesicles seem to close again, and to become distended with new secretion, in order to their going through the process for a second or perhaps a third time. It is exceedingly diffi- cult to come at the truth respecting this matter, but an examination of the Peyerian glands may afford us some help in the investigation. Each Peyerian patch consists of but a single layer of gland-vesicles, which in the adult ap- pear all to be at pretty much the same stage of development. No second row of unde- veloped vesicles is ever found beneath this layer, such as might be supposed to serve as a compensation for those which have burst ; so that a Peyerian patch of glands, after all the vesicles had burst, would necessarily dis- appear, if no closure of the vesicles followed, unless indeed a power existed to develop a new group of vesicles at some other point. Now although the Peyerian glands of Man and Mammalia certainly show individual varieties in number and extent, yet these appear too small to prove a destruction of the Peyerian vesicles after the mariner of the Graafian fol- licles of the ovary. Besides this, I have never been able to remark the least appearance which could lead me to imagine a new development of the glandular patches. Moreover, it is a well ascertained fact, that in many Mammalia certain Peyerian gland-patches show a con- stant position and size at all periods. To this category belongs a very large Peyerian patch which exists in the rabbit at the point where the ileum opens into the large intestine. Such structures will scarce admit of any other conclusion than that the gland-vesicles re- close themselves after their dehiscence. From these observations, which in part de- pend on researches not yet published, we shall be able to come to a decision respecting the glandular nature of the supra-renal cap- sules. In them the same gland-cells appear ; the same membrana propria, capable of with- standing alkalies. Exteriorly this issurrounded by capillaries, and interiorly it contains the same mass, consisting of molecules of a protein substance, fatty granules, nuclei, and cells de- veloped by circumposition of a membrane. We also find a development of gland-vesicles from cells identical with that which was met with in the Ammocoetes. The multiplication of the nuclei here occurs by the method of fission. And since, in the supra-renal capsules, these undeveloped gland-vesicles occur in predomi- nant quantity, we may, therefore, well imagine that the old gland-vesicles are destroyed in these organs, in which they undergo dehis- cence. But their contents are not extruded outwardly, as are those of the gland-vesicles previously described, but into the fibrous frame- work of the organ, in which they exist in the fluid form, and from which they are subse- quently received into the vascular system either by immediate or mediate resorption. We are therefore correct in regarding the supra-renal capsules as glandular organs, and their function as secretory; and any hypo- thesis which ascribes to them a function other than secretory, may be safely considered erro- neous. If we now address ourselves to a comparison of the structure of the supra-renal capsules with that of other vascular glands, we shall see how great a resemblance obtains. Unfortunately, we do not possess such ex- perimental researches regarding all of them as those which Ecker has published in his work on the supra-renal capsules. Only the thymus gland has found an accurate observer in Simon.* Nevertheless, we already know thus much, that in two of the three other vascular glands, viz., in the thymus and thy- roid glands, a similar structure obtains. Bar- deleben-)- was the first to observe what Ecker J, Gcrlach§, Schaffher||, and others confirmed, that in the thyroid gland gland- vesicles occur grouped in masses, imbedded in a loose cellular tissue, and surrounded by blood-vessels. In Man, they are seen with some difficulty; but are more easily made out in most of the Mammalia, and best in Birds and Reptilia. These vesicles, which attain a size varying from G-lOOOths to 5-100ths of a line, begin as cells which mea- sure 5 to 10-1000ths of a line, and which are connected with them by all the transi- tional forms. Suspended in a fluid which occupies their interior, are varying numbers of elementary granules of an albuminous material ; and besides these, fatty granules, nuclei of 2 to 3000ths of a line, and finally, cells with one or more nuclei. In the earlier periods of foetal life the vesicles are not to be met with ; but their place is entirely oc- cupied by cells, — a condition exactly similar to that which was met with in examining the supra-renal capsules. So also the gland-vesicles of the thyroid appear after some time to be destroyed, and their contents resorbed. This is shown by the fact, that frequently only younger and undeveloped forms of these are to be met with in the adult animal ; while in other in- stances, the fully developed vesicles occur in excessive numbers. Some distinction between the thyroid and supra-renal capsules, although not an important one, may possibly be de- duced from the fact, that in most of the Mam- malia, the nuclei and cells are ranged as an epithelial stratum on the inner surface of the vesicles, so that the remainder of their cavity * A Physiological Essay on the Th\-nius Gland, London, 1845. \ Observations de glandularam ductu excretorio carentium structure, Berolini, 1841. J Loc. cit. § Loc. cit. || Henle und Pfeuffer's Zeitschrift fiir rationelle Medizin, 1849. 3 II 4;