URETHRA. 1262 wards the pubis, and gives rise to inflamma- tion and caries of the bone; nay, it may take its course even to the groin and lower part of the abdomen. For obvious reasons, stricture seldom happens prior to puberty; nevertheless some rare instances are recorded of the disease in young children. I do not here allude to such as result from mechanical injury, for these may happen at any age. Hunter mentions a case of stricture accompanied with fistula in perinaeo in a boy four years old, but he does not speak of the cause.* He also mentions one in a boy eleven years old. In the Museum of the College of Sur- geons there is a preparation (No. 2535.) of the bladder and penis of a boy seven years of age, laid open to show a stricture at the mem- branous part of the urethra, and behind the stricture a small stone is lodged. The case occurred to Sir E. Home, who also mentions a case of stricture occurring at ten years of age. What is the true nature of a stricture ? I believe that a stricture (1 speak of the per- manent class) may result from the organisa- tion of lymph effused upon the surface of the mucous membrane, as in the formation of bridle strictures. Secondly, that it may arise from the healing or cicatrisation of an ulcer, in which case a fibrous puckering is produced. Thirdly, that it may arise from hypertrophy of the elastic layer beneath the mucous mem- brane. Fourthly, from deposition of lymph between the urethra and spongy body; and, lastly, from deposit and organisation of lymph in the cells of the spongy body ; and that these conditions may all co-exist. When the strictured part is laid open, it will be found that at the exact seat of stricture the mucous surface is raised; and beneath this the submucous elastic lamina is observed dis- tinctly thickened, of a firm texture, and de- prived more or less of its natural elasticity, this thickening passing off gradually and in- sensibly in a longitudinal direction until it altogether disappears and the canal resumes its natural diameter, or is dilated or contracted according to circumstances. The thickening usually extends equally around the urethra, so that the opening of the canal is in the middle of the stricture, but in some instances it is confined to one side. On attempting to dissect the urethra from the subjacent spongy body, it will be found that its adhesion at the seat of stricture is so complete, that it cannot be raised without much difficulty, and in many cases the separation of the two struc- tures cannot be accomplished at all. The spongy body itself is frequently thickened, and the delicate tissue forming the septa of its cells is much hypertrophied. Causes of stricture. — Most strictures are the result of inflammation of the urethra. Long persistent and neglected claps constitute by far the most common of the causes of the disease. I have no hesitation in admitting that the indiscriminate use of stimulating injections * Hunter, On the Venereal Disease, p. 115. may be fairly set down as the occasional cause of stricture. Masturbation, and the too frequent indulgence in the venereal act, may be enu- merated amongst the occasional causes of the disease. Co-existence of stone with stricture. — It often happens that calculus in the bladder co-exists with stricture in the urethra, and the con- nection between the two diseases appears easily accounted for. But some curious cir- cumstances occasionally occurring in these cases, render it very doubtful whether we are justified in indiscriminately attributing the formation of stone to the impediment to the discharge of water from the stricture ; nay, the circumstances to which I allude rather tend to prove the converse of the proposition, namely, that the stricture depends on the ir- ritation in the urethra, maintained by the pre- sence of stone in the bladder. The inference appears legitimately deducible from the fact, that cases of severe stricture have been entirely cured by the removal of the stone from the bladder by lithotomy. * Diseased lacunce.— Sometimes one of the lacuna; becomes the seat of chronic inflamma- tion, and is converted into a small indurated tumour, varying from the size of a hemp-seed to a horse-bean. It becomes imbedded in the spongy body, f According to Sir B. Brodie, the usual situation is about two or three inches from the orifice, but it is sometimes perceptible close to the fraenum, at others within the scrotum. Rokitansky mentions a curious form of disease occurring after repeated attacks of go- norrhoea. " The urethra presented numerous cartilaginous protuberances, from the size of a millet-seed to that of a pea, in part coalescing, and scattered over the inner surface as far back as the bulb, leaving the passage, however, of adequate dimensions." \ Obstruction from, other causes.—The urethra is sometimes occupied by verrucous vegeta- tions, the result of gonorrhoea. Numerous instances of this are given byRicord; they are usually found near the meatus, and are remarkably vascular; but sometimes they exist in the membranous, or even the pro- static, portion. They are distinguishable by their greater vascularity from another form of excrescence or caruncle, which co-exists occasionally with stricture. Both, however, are formed in consequence of irritation of the urethral membrane, and represent simple or- ganised structures connected with the urethra by a base or stem. Hunter met with two, and these were in cases of very old stricture, where the urethra had suffered considerably. Home says, that with all his opportunity in inspecting these diseases in the dead body, he never met with them. Rokitansky § also affirms their extreme * See Edinburgh Monthly Journal for April, 1850, p. 367. f Home, On Strictures. $ Rokitansky's Pathology; Sydenham Society's edition, vol. ii. § Loc. cit.