1348 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. signing to them a distinct origin. So, again, there would seem to be no near relationship between the American and the Turanian lan- guages ; but the affinity of the two stocks appears to be established by the transition- link afforded by the Esquimaux, which are Mongolian in their conformation and Ame- rican in their language. The affinity of the Semitic and Japetic languages, moreover, is so deeply hidden, as to have, until recently, almost defied discovery; and yet the people who speak them so far resemble one another in physical characters, that they have been almost invariably associated together under the general designation of the Caucasian race. The common origin of the inhabitants of the continents of Europe, Asia, and America is thus pointedly indicated by the combination of these two sources of evidence. The por- tion of the Malayo-Polynesian race, that is, in nearest proximity with South-Eastern Asia, presents such a striking] resemblance in phy- sical characters to the inhabitants of the neighbouring part of that great continent, that their community of origin can scarcely be doubted ; and when certain points of re- semblance between some of the Oceanic and Indian dialects are taken into account, this inference receives strong confirmation. The African nations have long been regarded as the most isolated from the common centre from which all the others appear to have radiated ; but recent investigations have shown that such isolation has no real existence. For, on the one hand, there are tribes which form (like the Esquimaux) a connecting link between the Semitic and proper African fa- milies, being African in their conformation, but Semitic in their language ; and, on the other, the study which has been recently be- stowed on the proper African languages, especially by Dr. Latham, has shown them to have so much in common with the Semitic tongues, that, with the additional evidence derivable from community of certain usages, extending through vast areas physically iso- lated from each other, it now seems impos- sible to believe but that the African nations are nearly related to the Semitic, and are through them, derivable from the great Asiatic centre. IV. General Survey of the principal Families of Mankind. In the summary view v hich will now be presented, of the characters of the principal varieties of the human race, it will be con- venient, in the first instance, to arrange them according to their existing geographical dis- tribution, stating, under each head, the most important peculiarities in physical conforma- tion, in psychical character, and in language, which they may respectively present. A ge- neral scheme of their probable relations of affinity will be subsequently given. I. European Nations. — The collective body of European nations, with the excep- tion of the Lapps, present a great uniformity in physical characters; for although minor differences exist among their subordinate groups, they all possess the elliptical cranium, the symmetrical form, the xanthous com- plexion, and the flowing hair, which cha- racterise what is ordinarily designated as the Caucasian variety. This group of nations, however, must be primarily divided into those of Avian or Indo-Median origin, and those whose origin is probably or certainly Mon- golian. Under the latter head may be ranked (as already remarked) the Lapps and Finns of Scandinavia; the Magyars of Hungary; the Turks of Turkey ; not improbably the Basques or Euskaldunes of Biscay and Na- varre ; and (possibly) the Albanians or moun- taineers of ancient lllyria and Epirus.* The European tribes of the Arian stock are con- sidered by Dr. Latham as fundamentally di- visible into the two great groups of Celts and Indo-Germans. The former seem to have de- tached themselves from the common stock, be- fore the evolution of the language had pro- ceeded to the formation of the cases of the nouns, but after that of the persons of the verbs had taken place")"; and their language presents obvious traces of agglutination, which, as already shown, marks an early stage in lin- guistic developement. The eastern origin of the Celtic nations was first demonstrated by Dr. Prichard j, and has been subsequently more fully proved by Pictet.§ The typical Celts exhibit somewhat of that development of the malar bones, which is carried to its fullest extent in the pyramidal skull ; and in their comparatively unprogressive psychical character they contrast remarkably with the Germanic group of nations. The Indo-Ger- mans, on the other hand, seem to have de- tached themselves from the common stock after the evolution of the cases of nouns had taken place ; ami their language presents less evidence of agglutination than does the Celtic. The Eastern origin of this group of nations is not now doubted by any competent ethno- logist ; for their languages, in spite of their diversity, constitute but one philological group, being united alike by community in many of the most important primary words, and by general similarity of grammatical construc- tion ; and being obviously all formed upon the same base with the Sanscrit, if not upon that language itself. Of all extant European dialects, the Lettish and Lithuanian approach most nearly to the ancient Sanscrit ; but a still nearer approach seems to have been presented by the old Prussian, a dialect now extinct, which maintained, to the sixteenth century, a very slightly changed form of the Zend or Median language, which was an early deriva- tion from the Sanscrit. Whilst every one of the Indo-Germanic languages bears traits of * See on this last point Dr. Latham's " Natural History of the Varieties of Man," p. 552. t Op. cit. p. 529. j On the Eastern Origin of the Celtic Nations, 1831. § De l'Affinite' ties Langues Celtiques avec le Sanscrit; Paris, 1837.