VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1331 4 Q 2 narrowing which is most common among the inhabitants of the " old country." And it is not a little significant, that the well-marked change which has thus shown itself in the course of a very few generations, should tend to assimilate the Anglo-American race to the aborigines of the country ; the peculiar phy- siognomy here adverted to, most assuredly presenting a transition, however slight, to- wards that of the North-American Indian. 2. Conformation of the Pelvis. — Certain differences in the pelvis have been thought to be characteristic of particular nations or groups of nations. According to Professor Vrolik*, who was the first to take up the enquiry systematically, the difference between the male and the female pelvis is much more strongly marked in the Negro than in the Eu- ropean. The pelvis of the male Negro, in the strength and density of its substance, and in the form of its component bones,resembles the pelvis of a wild beast ; while, on the contrary, the pelvis of the female of the same race com- bines lightness of substance and delicacy of form and structure. Notwithstanding this delicacy of conformation, it is considered by Professor Vrolik to present characters which indicate an approximation to that of the Quadrumana ; for the ossa ilii are unusually vertical in their direction, and the highest part of their crest is situated immediately above the posterior and upper tuberosity, instead of being midway between the anterior spine and posterior tuberosity ; the length of the an- tero-posterior diameter at the brim is very great in proportion to the transverse diameter; the sacrum is narrower, and the angle beneath the pubic articulation more acute; the whole pelvis is longer; but the diameters at the outlet are not sensibly different from those of the European pelvis. The conformation of the pelvis in the female Hottentot, who died in Paris in 1815, is considered by Professor Vrolik to present a still wider departure from the European form, and a correspondingly nearer approximation to the quadrumanous ; the ilia are so vertical in their direction, and are so much lengthened upwards, as to rise above the level of the middle of the fourth lumbar vertebra. In the Javanese (Malay), the pelvis is distinguished by its smallness, its peculiar lightness of substance, and the cir- cular form of its upper aperture; the pro- montory of the sacrum projects very little; and the ischiadic spines are remarkably turned inwards. A more extended comparison of the pelvis of different races, however, has been made by Professor M. I. Weber ; who classifies all the varieties he has met with under the four fol- lowing heads, which are named according to the form of the aperture of the brim : — 1. The oval, in which the aperture has somewhat the form of an egg, the narrowest end of the ellipse being at the symphysis * Platen behoorende tot de Beschowing van het Verschel der Bekfcens in onderscheidene Volkstam- men. Amsterdam: 1826. pubis : but the antero-posterior diameter is shorter than the transverse. 2. The round, in which the antero-pos- terior and transverse diameters are nearly equal. 3. The square, or four-sided ; in which the sides, especially that formed by the os pubis, are flat and broad, so that the aperture forms nearly a perfect square ; the transverse di- ameter is greater than the antero-posterior. 4. The oblong ; in which the sides are com- pressed, and the transverse diameter is con- sequently the least; the sacrum is narrow; and the angle at which the ossa pubis unite is very acute ; the ossa ilii are high, and nearer to each other than in the previous forms. Now, if any attempt be made to assign any one of these forms of pelvis to a particular nation or group of nations, it fails in toto ; because, although particular types are more common than others in each principal variety, yet each kind may present itself in other individuals of the same race. Thus, the oval type is most common in the European, where it is in accordance with the oval form of the skull ; but round, square, and wedge-shaped pelves also present themselves occasionally ; and the oval form is met with again in the pelvis of a Botacudo, a people reputed to be the most savage of all the American nations. The round type seems most frequent among the American and Malayan nations ; but it has been observed by Weber not merely in the European, but in a Negress,and in a female Hottentot. The square form seems most common among the nations with decidedly pyramidal skulls, especially the Northern Asiatics ; but it occurs also in Europeans, and in the mixed race of Mestizos. Finally, the oblong pelvis is most common among the African races, and is conformable to the elongated shape usually possessed by their crania ; but it has been observed also among Europeans and Botocudos.*—The writer's own observations, so far as they extend, con- firm this view, as to the conformity between the shape of the pelvis and that of the skull ; which renders it probable that the influences which affect the latter will modify the former also. 3. Conformation of other parts of the slce- leton.— Other characters have been at dif- ferent times adduced, as showing that the Negro and other degraded races are really to be considered as forming a distinct group, in- termediate between the higher specimens of humanity and the superior apes. Of these, the most important will be now inquired into. It was maintained by Soemmering, and since his time very generally believed, that the position of the foramen magnum in the Negro skull is intermediate between that which it holds in man, and that w hich it presents in the anthropoid Simias; but this, as already shown, is a mistaken view of the case; for, * Die Lehre von den Ur- und Kacenformen der Sehaedel und Becken des Menschen, von Dr. M. I. Weber. Dusseldorf: 1830.