TEETH. 899 3 M 2 striated growth, which fang gradually tapers to its extremity ; those teeth which grow un- interruptedly have not their exposed part se- parated by a neck from their implanted part, and this generally maintains to its extremity the same shape and size as the exposed crown, It is peculiar to the class Mammalia to have teeth implanted in sockets by two or more fangs ; but this can only happen to teeth of limited growth, and generally characterises the molars and premolars ; perpetually grow- ing teeth require the base to be kept simple and widely excavated for the persistent pulp. In no mammiferous animal does anchylosis of the tooth with the jaw constitute a normal mode of attachment. Each tooth has its particular socket, to which it firmly adheres by the close co-adaptation of their opposed surfaces, and by the firm adhesion of the alveolar periosteum to the organised cement which invests the fang or fangs of the tooth ; but in some of the Cetacea, at the posterior part of the dental series, the sockets are wide and shallow, and the teeth adhere more strongly to the gum than to the periosteum ; in the Cachalot I have seen all the teeth brought away with the ligamentous gum, when it has been stript from the sockets of the lower jaw. Teeth are fixed as a general rule in all Vertebrata, and the only known exceptions are those presented by certain species of fishes, e.g. the Sharks, Lophioids, Gonio- donts. In the higher Vertebrata the move- ments of the teeth depend on those of the jaw-bones to which they are affixed, but appear to be independent in the ratio of the size of the tooth to the bone to which it is attached. Thus the extent of rotatory movement to which the large perforated poison fangs of the rattle-snake are subject depends upon the rotation of the small maxillary bone. So likewise the seemingly individual movements of divarication and approximation observable in the large lower incisors of the Batliyergus and Macropus *, are due entirely to the yielding nature of the symphysis uniting the two rami of the lower jaw in which those incisors are deeply and firmly implanted. It is no more a property of the teeth themselves than is that alternate removal of the lower teeth from, and bringing of them in contact with, the upper teeth of the mouth, which one sees or feels in the act of mastication. True teeth implanted in sockets are con- fined, in the Mammalian class, to the maxil- lary, premaxillary, and mandibular, or lower maxillary bones, and form a single row in each. They may project only from the pre- maxillary bones, as in the Narwhal, or only from the lower maxillary bone, as in Ziphius; or be apparent only in the lower maxillary bone, as in the Cachalot ; or be limited to the superior and inferior maxillaries, and not pre- sent in the premaxillaries, as in the true Pecora, and most Bruta of Linnieus ; in * See Mason Good's Book of Nature, vol. i. p. 285. 182G. general, teeth are situated in all the bones above mentioned. In Man, where the pre- maxillaries early coalesce with the maxillary bones, where the jaws are very short and the crowns of the teeth are of equal length, there is no interspace or "diastema" in the dental series of either jaw, and the teeth derive some additional fixity by their close apposi- tion and mutual pressure. No inferior Mam- mal now presents this character; but its im- portance, as associated with the peculiar attributes of the human organisation, has been somewhat diminished by the discovery of a like contiguous arrangement of the teeth in the jaws of a few extinct quadrupeds : e. g. Anoplotherium, Nesodon, and Dichodon.* The teeth of the Mammalia usually consist of hard unvascular dentine, defended at the crown by an investment of enamel, and every- where surrounded by a coat of cement. The coronal cement is of extreme tenuity in Man, Quadrumana, and terrestrial Carnivora ; it is thicker in the Herbivora, especially in the complex grinders of the Elephant ; and is thickest in the teeth of the Sloths, Mega- therioids, Dugong, Walrus, and Cachalot. Vertical folds of enamel and cement penetrate the crown of the tooth in the Ruminants, and in most Rodents and Pachyderms, charac- terising by their various forms the genera of the last two orders ; but these folds never converge from equidistant points of the cir- cumference of the crown towards its centre. The teeth of the quadrupeds of the order Bruta {Edentata, Cuv.) have no true enamel; this is absent likewise .in the molars of the Dugong and the Cachalot.\ The tusks of the Narwhal, Walrus, Dinotherium, Masto- don, and Elephant consist of modified den- tine, which, in the last two great proboscidian animals, is properly called " ivory," J and is covered by cement. In the subjoined magnified view of a section of the molar of a Megatherium, t is the hard dentine, v the vaso-dentine, and c the cement (^.574). The teeth in the Mammalia, as in the fore- going classes, are formed by superaddition of the hardening salts to pre-existing moulds of animal pulp or membrane, organised so as to insure the arrangement of the earthy particles according to that pattern which characterises each constituent texture of the tooth. The complexity of the primordial basis, or matrix, corresponds, therefore, with that of the fully-formed tooth, and is least remark- able in those conical teeth which consist only * Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, Feb. 1848, p. 36, pi. iv. f M. Fr. Cuvier divides the teeth of Mammalia, according to their composition, into four classes: the first consists of ivory (dentine), enamel, and cement; the second of ivory and enamel; the third of ivory and cement; the fourth of ivory only. (Dents des Mammif eres, p. xxi.) I have met with no Mammalian teeth in which cement is absent, and believe that the second and fourth of the above- cited classes of teeth have no existence in nature. J " Hoc solum est ebur." Plinius, Hist. JYat. lib. xi. c. 37.