TUNICATA. 1219 excretory orifice, not occupying the centre of the " system," but placed nearly at one of the extremities, and communicating with the in- dividuals situated at the other end of the group by means of the interior canal. In Amaroucium the faecal or anal orifices, by which the common cloacae open externally, are wide open during life, and easily per- ceived ; their form is round and their border thick; but after death they contract, and are so much sunk in that they are demonstrated with difficulty. The anal orifice in some genera is sur- mounted by a membranous languet, either simple or trifid (fig. 783. i'). Fig. 783. Anatomy of Botrylhides rotifera. (After Milne- Edwards.} Lateral view of an isolated individual magnified. c, branchial orifice; e, branchial stigmata; /, thoracic sinus; /(, cloaca; i, anal orifice; i', supra- anal languet; nerve-ganglion; k, oesophagus, /, stomach; m, first portion of intestine, or duo- denum ; m>, second portion, or chylific ventricle; m", third portion, or rectum; n, anus, opening into the cloaca; q, testicle; r, vas deferens; t, radiciform appendage, or proliferous stolon; t', reproductive germs; x, liver ( ?) ; x1, its excretory duct. In pointing out the natural groups of the associated Ascidians we have spoken of the division of the body into distinct portions, as the thorax, and super- and post-abdomen in Amaroucium (fig. 782.), and in PolycUnum, where they correspond to the three vertical chambers of the animal's cell; and into the thorax and abdomen in Didemnum. The latter arrangement resembles that of the C/a- vcUincE; but in the Botryllians, on the other hand, no distinct separation is observable, the viscera being pushed up by the side of the branchial sac, as in the Perophorce and the simple Ascidians (fig. 783.). The thorax is generally more or less cylindrical, sometimes hemispherical (fig. 769.) or subglobose, and contains the branchial organs. In Botryllus violaceas there are two little glandular tuber- cles, one on the right and one on the left of the buccal orifice, and situated at a nearly equal distance from the superior extremity of the ventral sinus and the dorsal nucleus or nerve-ganglion. The branchial sac of the Boiryllida: is very similar to that of the ClavellirMce. The bran- chial spiracles, or intervascular spaces, are variable in number, and the crest or fold cor- responding to the anterior border of the branchial sinus has no membranous languet; but in Diazona, Synoicum, and PolycUnum it bears a row of minute tentacular filaments. The branchial sac of Sigillina has 4 large, salient, transverse vessels on each side, united by 15 or 16 smaller longitudinal vessels ; and in Aplidium there are 10 to 12 trans- verse branchial vessels. PolycUnum has 14? transverse branchial vessels anastomosing with 15 to 18 finer longitudinal vessels. In Ama- roucium there are 10 to 12 rows of stigmata, and in PolycUnum 13 rows. Didemnum and Leptoclinum have 5 rows. In Botrylhides the respiratory sac presents 10 vertical rows of spiracles, parcelled into threes by vertical folds. There are 9 of these chink-like open- ings on each lateral rank, and at each of their four angles is a little tubercle. In Botryllus the respiratory sac lies almost horizontally, and has on each side 9 transverse rows of stigmata, grouped into threes by the longi- tudinal folds. The angles of the branchial net-work are marked with papillae in Distoma and Diazona. Instead of papillae on the spaces between the branchial meshes, Leptoclinum Listen has a thin ledge between each row of spiracles; and in front there are three tapering moveable prominences, one connected with each ledge, either stretched forward horizontally into the cavity, or bent downwards with a spiral curve. These laminae, observes Mr. Lister, seemed to suspend a generally invisible vertical mem- brane, and to assist in giving the food its direction towards the stomach ; for it moved horizontally along the sides of the cavity, as in Peropkora, and when it reached the front, took a spiral motion downwards. When the branchial sac of the Leptoclinum contracted forcibly to reject what had been stopped by the tentacles, or found unfit for food, the oral orifice, instead of projecting, was then drawn down below the level of the external test, and depressed it, the cilia being also closely stretched across the openings of the spiracles. When the cilia were thus stopped in their action, they were seen to be very numerous, and being in close contiguity one with another, the neighbours by their sides, and the oppo- sites by their ends, appeared almost as a con- tinuous membrane. The superior abdomen of the Polyclina contains the digestive apparatus, and the post- abdomen the organs of generation and the heart. The intestines of the Botryl/idce are always subject to one or more foldings, and their several portions are frequently distin- guished by different tints of colour. 4 i 2