1485 VOICE. obtained except during the production of acute tones. In many persons the speaking pitch is an entire octave graver than corresponds to the length of a tube, which would enable a column of air to produce the same sound ; and in such persons the falsetto can seldom be effected. In consequence of the pitch of the vocal organs thus occupying a middle or central position between the acute and grave notes, a great facility is afforded to their action in modulating the voice. The vocal tube, like any other tube open at both ends, is said to be capable of producing the harmonics of its fundamental tone in the ratio of the series of natural numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4. These harmonic sounds have been described by Knecht of Leipsic, and by Dr. Young. I have occasion- ally thought that I have heard them during the forcible expiration which attends the bois- terous laughter of children. The density of the air inspired is said to affect the pitch of the voice as in rigid tubes. The influence of the epiglottis on the voice has been the subject of divers hypotheses. MM. Biot, Majendie, and Mayo have inferred, from the experiments of Grenie, that the epi- glottis prevents the tones from becoming more acute when they increase in intensity. Lis- covius, on the other hand, states that neither its depression, elevation, nor even its entire removal has any effect on the voice.* Haller appears to have deduced the same opinion from the circumstance of birds being destitute of this organ. "Epiglottis equidem nihil facit ad vocem, cum ea (vox) nata sit et perfecta quamprimum aer ex glottidis rima prodit, et absque epiglottide aves suavissime canant."-)- According to Miiller, the influence of this organ on the pitch of the voice is exercised during its depression only, rendering the tones graver, and at the same time duller. He thinks we evidently employ it in this way during the production of very deep tones ; and observes that, by introducing the finger at the side of the mouth, the epiglottis will be found to maintain the same position during the utter- ance of musical notes, whether they be of the falsetto character, or of the ordinary scale. I am disposeil to ascribe to the functions of the epiglottis much the same value as Miiller ; since it is clear that its presence is not essen- tial to the mere formation of voice, for it may be removed, together with the superior ligaments of the glottis, the ventricles of the larynx, and the capitula laryngis of Santorini, without im- pelling the vibratory movements of the glottis. The art of singing consists in the applica- tion of the vocal organs to produce a certain succession of tones in some determinate order, which constitutes melody. This can be ac- complished with precision by those only who can accurately discern with the ear, and imi- tate with the voice, the variations of the pitch of a musical instrument, or other sounding body. In many persons the perception of sound is defective; so that, whatever may be the purity and intensity of their notes as single uncon- nected musical sounds, they can never be used for musical purposes, that is, for sounds succeeding each other at regular intervals, governed by fixed rules. Many persons can imitate the voices of birds and beasts, and diversify the character of their tones to an in- definite extent. These performances illustrate the perfection of the human voice, but the artifices by which they are effected have no reference to the subject under investigation. The musical varieties of the human voice are classed according to their pitch, or the middle note of their primary register, which depends on the dimensions ami physical constitution of the vocal ligaments. These varieties are, the Bass, the Tenor, the Contralto, and the Soprano*; the usual compass of each kind in the adult is represented in the annexed table. | Contralto. "| Soprano. | C D E F G A B C D1 E> F> G' A' B' C2 D2 E2 F2 G2 A2 B2 C3 D3 E3 F3 G3 A3 B3 C3 I Tenor. I Bass. In addition to these characteristic and prin- cipal divisions of the voice, there are certain others, called the Baritone, the Mezzo-soprano, and the Soprano-sfogato, which are subdivisions of the foregoing, and the place of either of which in the scale is indicated by its name. We see by this table what an extensive variety of harmonious sounds may be produced by the combinations of the different kinds of voice. In ordinary singers the range seldom exceeds two octaves, except in those endowed with a falsetto. There have been some celebrated singers, such as Catalani, Malibran, and others, whose compass has even exceeded three octaves, but such instances are rare. The * Theorie der Stimme. Leips. 181-1. f Physiology, lib. ix. p. 372. voices in both male and female are nearly of the same pitch until the age of puberty, at which period the voice of males sinks an octave. This change of pitch is owing to a sudden enlargement of the larynx, the antero- posterior diameter of which is augmented by from one-fourth to one-third, with a simul- taneous lengthening of the vocal ligaments. During this process the voice is hoarse, and there is a temporary inability to regulate it. Eunuchs do not undergo this change. Ben- nati is of opinion that the voice should not be * The first two of these belong to the male sex, and the last two to the female. In this table C is the pitch of the 8-feet organ pipe, or the funda- mental of the fourth string of the violoncello; the ciphers denote the octaves, that is, C1, C3, &c. are the first and second octave of C.