1177 TOUCH. notions so immediately springing from sensa- tions as to be often confounded with them, but also for the reception of the sensory impres- sions themselves. Until, in fact, the mind has been affected by these impressions, no sensation can be said to exist ; and that of which the mind takes cognisance is not the external object but the impression produced by it, and not the direct or immediate impres- sion produced by it upon the organ which first receives it, but the change in the senso- rium consequent upon this. (See Sensa- tion.) That this is the true account of the process is now universally admitted both by the psychologist and the physiologist ; and it is placed beyond all reasonable question by the occurrence of those subjective sensations, which, until their indications are corrected by experience, may suggest the idea of an external source, with such vividness and de- finiteness, that the objective unreality can scarcely be credited. In some instances the excitement of these subjective sensations ap- pears due to the occurrence of a change in the part in which they are felt, which simu- lates that which would be produced by an external impression ; as in the case of the sen- sation of extreme heat, which is often expe- rienced in inflammation to a degree far beyond that which the actual exaltation of tempera- ture would account for ; and the pain, of va- rious kinds, often resembling that inflicted by external injuries, which is the result of morbid changes in the part to which it is referred. But in other cases they are clearly referable to changes taking place in the course of the nerve-trunk to the sensorium, which simulate those which would naturally occur in it when it is the conductor of an external impression ; of this several examples have already been given. Or, again, the}' may be due to a change purely sensorial; as in the various cases of " radiation of sensations " elsewhere alluded to (see Sensation); or, as in the sensations of nausea, of shuddering, of tickling, of pain, &c, which are frequently excited by changes purely mental. The degree of intensity, again, with which actual sensations are felt, depends as much upon the state of the mind as upon that of the corporeal organism. Thus, if we experience a slight itching in the skin, and direct our thoughts to it, we are speedily annoyed by its increase ; whilst, if we steadily fix our thoughts upon some other object, we are soon unconscious of the irritation. On the other hand, the complete absorption of the mind in some train of thought which engrosses its attention, may render the individual unconscious of impres- sions that would ordinarily induce severe pain. This is remarkably seen in cases of natural and artificial somnambulism (see Sleep) ; and it is probable that in many of the cases in which insane patients have in- flicted severe wounds upon themselves, with- out appearing to feel pain, the cause of the immunity from suffering is to be found in the entire possession which some dominant feel- ing or idea has of their consciousness, so that they are not cognizant of any external im- pressions but such as harmonize with it. Even in ordinary cases, it is well known that a severe injury suddenly inflicted, is much less felt at the moment than a far slighter injury of which the mind has been in expec- tation ; thus, a limb has been carried away by a cannon-ball, or the chest traversed by a bullet, with far less consciousness of pain than is produced by the trivial incision made in ordinary venesection. Improvea/ji/iti/ of the Sense of Touch. — The mental participation in the phenomena of tactile sensation is further rendered obvious by the improvement in discriminating power which results from continual attention to its indications. Of this we have examples in the case of certain artisans, whose employments re- quire them to cultivate their tactile discrimina- tion ; thus, the female silk-throwsters of Bengal are said to be able to distinguish by the touch alone twenty different degrees of fineness in the unwound cocoons, which are sorted ac- cordingly ; and the Indian muslin-weaver con- trives, by the delicacy of his touch, to make the finest cambric in a loom of such simple construction, that European fingers could at best propose to make a piece of canvas in it. The improvement in tactile discrimination is more especially seen, however, in those indi- viduals whose dependence upon it is increased by the loss or deficiency of other senses; and especially by blindness, congenital or ac- quired. Whilst it is doubtless to be attri- buted, in great part, to the concentration of the attention and of the powers of recollec- tion and comparison upon the sensations which are brought (as it were) to the mind, it may not seem altogether improbable that the improvement may in part depend upon an increased development of the tactile organs themselves ; resulting from that augmented nutrition which would be the natural con- sequence of the frequent use of them, and of the increased flow of blood that seems to take place towards any part on which the attention is continually fixed. Certain it is, that many blind persons can not merely obtain as defi- nite and accurate conceptions of the form, surface, &c, of objects over which they ra- pidly pass their hands, as others could only derive from the long and painstaking examin- ation of them by their tactile organs; but they can discriminate minute differences, of which those who have not specially cultivated this faculty remain quite unconscious, even when their attention is pointedly directed to their discovery. The process by which the blind learn to read from books printed in an ele- vated type for their special use, affords an interesting illustration of the nature of the improveability of the proper sense of touch. On first making the attempt, the learner needs to use a large type; and even although (to a person who has previously enjoyed his sight), the visual form of each letter may be well known, yet considerable experience is required for the ready recognition of the tactile form of each separate letter. After this step has been