1352 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. archal times to that of Moses; by having served as the depository of the Mosaic dispensation, by which that Monotheism was preserved and organised in the Judaical system; and by having been the centre whence has emanated the fuller light of Christianity, which, in the fulness of time, was exhibited among a people blinded by their own prejudices and self- esteem, to be the regenerator of the nations that as yet knew not God. Scarcely less re- markable is it that the third great Monotheistic system—that of Mahommedanism—which; is essentially a degraded mixture of Judaism and Christianity, should have developed itself amongst the same people, occupying the place, on the one hand, of its Divine prototypes, and on the other, of the various inferior religions whose professors have been brought under Arab sway, and forced to embrace the dogma of their conquerors. Wherever this last change has taken place, it has obviously been for the better; and there is no more striking example of it, than the superior condition of the African nations which have been thus brought under Mahommedan influence. And it can be scarcely doubted that it is the pur- pose of Divine Providence, thus to spread and to maintain a Monotheistic system, adapted to the capacities of the people who receive it; until a higher intellectual and moral develop- ment shall render them capable of appreciating the purer light of Christianity. The Semitic languages early attained a considerable development ; but the forms it took were not well adapted for further evolu- tion ; and they present nearly the same type at the present time, as that which is exhibited in the earliest literature which the world pos- sesses : namely, the sacred books of the He- brew nation. Their alphabet was the earliest in the world; and their writing is peculiar in passing in the direction contrary to that of other languages, namely, from right to left. " Of the several nations," remarks Dr. Prichard *, " who are connected by this com- munity of language, some who were formerly celebrated have become nearly extinct; while others have spread themselves, either as the exiled followers of a persecuted faith, or as the enduring apostles of a victorious one, over the world, and seem destined, through the energy of their invincible mind, to survive to the end of time. The Syrian race scarcely exists; their language only survives in some districts on the borders of Kurdistan ; every- where they have been lost under the predomi- nating Arabs. The Homerites in Arabia, if they there exist, are little known ; the Abys- sinian Homerites are the only inhabitants of the province of Tigre, to the eastward of the Tacazze, whose idiom still resembles the an- cient Gheez. The Arabs, who spread Islam by their victories from the Atlantic to the Ganges, and the Jews, who are wanderers over the whole world, are perhaps now more numerous than were even their forefathers." Of the difference in complexion that manifests * Natural History of Man, p. 145. itself among the Arabs of Arabia, mention has already been made ; the greatest modifi- cations of the ordinary type present them- selves, however, among the African members of the Semitic group, as will presently appear. III. African Nations. — Of the various nations inhabiting the African continent, those of the Negro type are usually regarded as the most characteristic specimens. But, as Dr. Latham has justly remarked, " no fact is more necessary to be remembered, than the differ- ence between the Negro and African ; a fact which is well verified by reference to the map. Here the true Negro area, occupied by men of the black skin, thick lip, depressed nose, and woolly hair, is exceedingly small; as small in proportion to the rest of the continent, as the area of the district of the stunted Hyper- boreans is in Asia, or that of the Lapps in Europe." When we have separated the region north of the Great Desert, which is mostly occupied by Semitic tribes; the Great Desert itself, whose scattered population is far from being Negro in many of its features ; the valley of the Nile, at least in its middle and lower portions, including Egypt and Nu- bia, and even Abyssinia ; and the Kaffre and Hottentot areas south of the equator ; there is only left the western portion of the continent, including the alluvial valleys of the Senegal, the Gambia, and the Niger, with a narrow strip of central Africa, passing eastwards to the alluvial regions of the Upper Nile. Even within this area, the true Negro type of con- formation is by no means universally preva- lent ; for many of the nations which inhabit it must be ranked as sub-typical Negroes. Our idea of the Negro character, in fact, is almost exclusively founded upon that division of the race which inhabits the low countries near the Slave Coast ; such tribes, indolent and degraded in an extreme degree, are dis- tinguished alike by their extreme ugliness, and by their brutal sensuality. The proper Negro character consists in the combination of a prognathous form of skull, with receding fore- head and depressed nose, thick lips, woolly hair, black unctuous skin, and crooked legs ; the facial aspect being such as is represented in Jigs. 803, 804. Similar characters are met with, again, among the inhabitants of the al- luvial regions around Lake Tchad, in the interior ; and some of the tribes in the lowest lands on the eastern side are but little superior. On the other hand, in the imme- diate neighbourhood of the typical Negroes, but inhabiting higher levels, and presenting a more advanced civilization, are found a num- ber of tribes departing from the Negro type in one or more of its distinctive characters. Thus the race of Iolofs near the Senegal, and the Guber in the interior of Sudan, have woolly hair and deep black complexions, but fine forms and regular features of the European cast (Jig. 831) ; the high parts of Senegambia, where the temperature is moderate and even cool at times, are inha- bited by Fulahs of a light copper colour; and on nearly the same parallel, but at the