IJ61 TONGUE. destitute of papillae : it was white, smooth and opaque on the surface. I have already men- tioned the obliteration of the papillae in the glossy tubercle of syphilis, and it also occa- sionally occurs in lues venerea, independent of the tubercle. I have seen the tongues of old people re- markably bald, especially as it regards the filiform papillae: as a general rule, these pa- pillae are less prominent in the aged. Effusions into papillce.— The fungiform pa- pillae are liable to be the seat of little extrava- sations of blood. I am acquainted with a medi- cal gentleman who has himself frequently had ibis trivial affection. It has always occurred to him in the night, and is indicated by a sharp pain, as though the tongue were stabbed by a red-hot needle, caused, doubtless, by the pres- sure of the blood upon the nerves in the papilla. Upon examining the tongue a papilla is seen to be distended into a minute capsule of blood, at first red, and afterwards black. The coagu- lum is absorbed in a few days, and the papilla resumes its former appearance. Lymph of a grey or ash-colour is apt to be deposited in and under the papillae, in the tongues of persons tainted with syphilis. When this occurs on the dorsum, it gives a grey speckled appearance to the patch, some of the papillae in the spot being unaffected. It looks as though this circumscribed surface had been rubbed with chalk. The patches vary in size from a split pea to a fourpenny piece. Occurring under the tip and along the under edge of the tongue, the appearance is a whitish even spot, of gristly texture, and not presenting a speckled appearance, the papillae here being invisible, and covered up uniformly with epithelium. This is the most common situation for these spots, which after a time become fissured, and ulcerate. Lymph, effused into a fungiform papilla, is the commencement of the common little cir- cular ulcer on the tip and edge of the tongue. I have snipped off) and examined under the microscope, one of these papillae. It was filled with a yellow, opaque, granular, sub-fibrous mass The papilla is not only enlarged by this effusion of lymph, but is altered in form ; its pedicle is elongated, and its head flattened. When the papilla does not ulcerate,but returns to a healthy state, its contents are absorbed, it diminishes in size, and the summit of the papilla becomes pitted in the centre. It then gradually assumes its natural size, shape, and colour. This may be easily seen by watching, every few hours, a patient's tongue through an ordinary pocket lens. Denuded papillce. — The papilla: are occa- sionally denuded by the effusion of serum be- tween the basement membrane and epithelium, by which this latter is raised into a blister, and is subsequently rubbed off'by the motions of the tongue, leaving the red naked papillae beneath. This denuded surface is red as com- pared with the surrounding, and smooth, but when viewed through a magnifier the small naked papillae are seen to be regular and per- fect. This surface is not ulcerated, but feels sore when touched. I have lately seen a patch, the size of a shilling, thus denuded in a patient suffering from diarrhoea. Fur. — The fur of the tongue is the epithe- lium, principally of the conical and filiform papillae, variously altered. It is most abund- ant where these papilla: are most plentiful, and it will be found, by inspecting minutely a furred tongue, that the fungiform papillae have undergone very little, if any, change. I be- lieve, with M. Piorry, that the fur of the tongue is chiefly dependent upon the con- dition of the saliva and mucus of the mouth : and, holding this view, it is easy to understand how it is that the filiform and conical papillae are principally affected ; they hang among the fluids of the mouth, exposing a large super- ficies in proportion to their bulk ; their sur- face is uneven and broken, and this, with the imbricated state of the epithelial particles, make them quickly and thoroughly imbibe, and become saturated with, any fluid into which they are immersed. In all this they contrast with the fungiform papillae, whose surface, in proportion to bulk, is small, and whose epithe- lium is spread in a thin, even sheet, smoothly over their surface. It must have been ob- served by every one, that the colour of the papillae of a brown typhoid tongue is identical with that of the sordes around the teeth, which is nothing more than the saliva and mucus, in which these papillae have been bathed, inspis- sated, and is doubtless the source of their colour. The white fur consists of a white, opaque, soft, sodden epithelium, which, when viewed under the microscope, differs from the epithelium in its ordinary state, in no other particular than its opacity. When the fur is crown, the epithelium presents the appearance of being simply and evenly stained. There are no opaque pigmentary particles in the cavity of the cell. The various amounts and characters of the fur ; the different arrangements of it in dif- ferent diseases and at different stages ; the al- terations, form, and size of the tongue, &c.; all symptomatic of morbid changes elsewhere, and belonging rather to the physician than the morbid anatomist, I shall not stop to describe. But it must not be forgotten that, in health, many of these conditions are natural to some persons: in some, the tongue is habitually furred, in others it is chapped, ragged, and irregular. The healing and reparation of the papillary surface of the tongue is not a little remark- able. I have known the surface of the tongue, after it has been immensely disfigured, es- pecially in syphilitic cases, by tubercles, and rhagades, and ulcers, restored almost to its former condition. After ulceration it would seem that the cicatrix contracts to a mere line, while the surrounding mucous membrane becomes extended, and either fresh papillae form, or else the minute simple papillae in- crease in dimensions, and become comphcated, for the papillary surface is ultimately quite restored. I shall conclude these observations on the