TONGUE. 1142 among naturalists *; but since a certain oral appendage, at least in some of the orders, has received by common consent the name of lingua, I shall briefly describe it. The mouth of insects is furnished with two lips — an upper lip, or labrum, and a lower lip or labium; besides four jaws — a manuible,' or upper, and a maxilla, or lower jaw, on each side. The labium, or lower lip, is divisible into two parts — a men turn, or basal joint, and a more flexible piece moving on this, the ligula, or labium proper. On the inner sur- face of this labium is developed a small pro- cess having a certain resemblance to a tongue, situated in front of the oesophageal orifice, and generally anchylosed with the labium at the front and sides of that opening ; in some cases, however, as in the locusts and dragon- flics, it is free. This process Cuvier con- sidered merely as a part of the labium, and accordingly called it labium; Fabricius and Latreille gave it the name of ligula. In shape it is generally short, but in bees it is long; it is frequently simple, but in the wasp its apex is trifid, the same in Melolontha stigma; in Canabus it possesses three short teeth ; in Elaphras it terminates in a single tooth or point. In substance it generally approaches to a cartilaginous consistence, but in the Orthn- ptera and LibellulcB it is much more fleshy: and in the predaceous beetles it is as hard and horny as the integument. In some cases it is immovable, in others projectile and re- tractile within the mouth ; in some cases smooth, in others covered with hairs, as is the case in the common hive-bee; in Melo- lontha stigma the hairs are incurved In the hive-bee the upper part of the tongue is car- tilaginous, and remarkable for a number of transverse rings : below the middle it consists of a membrane longitudinally folded in in- action, but capable of being inflated to a con- siderable size : this membranous bag receives the honey which the tongue, as it were, laps from the flowers, and conveys it to the pharynx."f" Mollusca.— Gasteropoda. In the acephalous mollusca there is, of course, no tongue. But the Gasteropoda are provided with a very sin- gular apparatus, which, since it is usually called the tongue, cannot be allowed to pass obser- vation here, though its right to such an ap- pellation is somewhat questionable. Its form is subject to much variation, but it may be described generally as a thin membrane, long and narrow, the greater extent of which is rolled into a tube. This tubular part (Jig. 759. A, b), occupies the posterior portion of the membrane, the end being closed, while its an- terior extremity is open and in connection with the oesophagus ; in front of the tubular part of the tongue is a continuation of the same membrane, which is here flat, and in many * Ce qu'on a nomme langue dans les coleopteres et les orthopteres, ou l'extremite membraneuse de la levre infe'rieure, en me'rite & peine le nom. Cuv., Lecons d'Anat. Comp., t. iii. p. 347. f Kirby and Spence, vol. iii. p. 453. species also, as in the common whelk (Buc- cinum undatum), it is recurved (Jig. 759. A, 2). Fig. 759. A. 1. Vertical section of head of Limax maximus, showing the relative position of the mouth, a; tongue, b; and oesophagus, c. 2. Retracted proboscis of Buccinum undatum. a, mouth; b, tongue; c, oesophagus. B, single row of tongue-teeth of B. undatum. This membrane is covered on its upper sur- face with transverse rows of minute teeth, or rather plates with tubercular or tootlilike pro- cesses upon them. The number of rows is considerable, and very variable, the terrestrial species averaging, probably, about eighty, and the marine possessing often many more; the number of plates in each row is subject to still greater variation : the common whelk (Buccinum undatum) has but three (Jig. 759. B), the large garden slug (Limax maximus) has 180. The shape of the plates in terres- trial gasteropoda is usually irregularly qua- drangular, slightly longer than broad, while in some fluviatile and marine species they as- sume most complicated and elegant forms (Jig. 759. B). The centre plate of the row is always symmetrical, and its denticular projec- tions point in the direction of the closed end, i. e. backwards, and nearly horizontally. The plates on either side of this central plate usu- ally assume in terrestrial gasteropods much the same form and direction, while some of the fluviatile and most of the marine species present such an endless variety of forms, that the most that can be said of them, generally, is that the dental processes point backwards. Fig. 759. B represents a row of the denti- gerous tongue-plates of the Buccinum unda- tum : there are seen to be only three ; the cen- tral one symmetrical, the lateral ones of very different form, individually non-symmetrical, but having an exact correspondence to one another. The tongue itself (Jig. 759. A, 2) is attached, as before stated, to the oesophagus near its anterior extremity, and lies beneath it. In the Helices and Limaces it is enveloped in the muscular head of the gasteropod (Jig. 759. A, 1), its posterior blind end being just visible at the back part of the head, some dis- tance below the point where the oesophagus leaves that part and passes into the abdominal cavity. In the whelk tribe it lies beneath, and parallel to, the oesophagus, and is free, though surrounded by strong muscular bands, the general direction of which is also parallel to the tongue. It is in this tribe that the an- terior end of the tongue is curved downward,