TONGUE. 1152 of the middle fibres of the genio-glossus, which depress its centre, a longitudinal channel, which receives the nipple, and transmits the milk to the pharynx as long as a vacuum con- tinues to be formed. In drinking liquids from a vessel the tongue forms a channel for its transmission, but it flows down to the pharynx by its own proper gravity. Mastication.—As far as relates to the tongue, which here, however, is only subsidiary to the teeth, the mechanism of mastication may be divided into three stages:—first, that of placing the food in an advantageous position with regard to the teeth; secondly, affecting the position of the food in a definite manner when under the action of the teeth; thirdly, collecting the scattered portions of masticated aliment prior to deglutition. Immediately on the introduction of a morsel of food into the mouth, either bitten by the incisors or other- wise, it is at once transferred to the molars, so that it shall project beyond them, outwards, against the cheek ; the cheek is then pushed against it by the action of the buccinator, and the food is slowly driven across the teeth, which are rhythmically opened and closed, the tongue at the same time pushing moderately against it on the inside and so regulating the movement imparted to it by the cheek. Thus we see that the food under mastication is sub- jected to an equable and regulated motion ; that it is placed, as it were, between two movable walls, and that by the even lateral movements of these walls, and the rhythmical vertical action of the teeth, its perfect masti- cation is secured. As soon as the cheek has pushed it inwards as far as it can, an interval in the rhythmical closure of the teeth takes place, and the tongue restores it to its former position, again to be pushed inwards, and so on. The equable mastication of the food is secured much in the same way as the even motion of a rod of timber, under the blade of a circular saw, secures the cutting oft' of pieces of equal thickness. Any one who watches himself whilst eating will at once observe the sets of rhythmical action, interrupted by short interval, in which the food is restored to its necessary position between the teeth. The third stage, that of collecting the food from all parts of the mouth, admits of no particular description. Insalivation.—There is no separate or super- added process for insalivation; it proceeds con- temporaneously with mastication, the motions which are necessary for the one supplying equally the required conditions of the other ; while the food is being comminuted by the teeth, dispersed by their action to different parts of the mouth, recollected by the tongue to be again dispersed, and so on, the salivary secretion is freely mixed with it, and reduces it to a homogeneous pulp : thus mastication facilitates insalivation by breaking up the food, and insalivation facilitates mastication by softening it. As one set of acts performs the two processes, of course there are not any additional movements of the tongue to describe. Deglutition.—When the food has attained a sufficient moisture and softness, which is ap- preciated by the tongue's sense of touch, it is collected into a mass, and the process of deglutition commences. Physiologists have divided this process, and the division is a good one, into three stages, which may be distin- guished respectively as the oral, the pharyngeal, and the oesophageal: the first conducts it past the anterior pillars of the fauces, the second in- cludes its transmission from that point through the pharynx into the oesophagus, and the third commences with its arrival at the oeso- phagus, and terminates with its entrance into the stomach. The first is entirely voluntary; the second is of a mixed nature, engaging partly voluntary and partly involuntary muscles, and, though practicable at will, is yet impres- sible on the transference to the back part of the tongue of the material to be swallowed ; the third is wholly involuntary. With the two first alone the tongue is engaged, and, there- fore, of these alone I shall speak. The first stage is merely the reference of the ball of alimentary matter to a point on the back of the tongue, posterior to the anterior pillars of the fauces. This is effected by the pressure of the tongue against the palate, whereby the food is forced back between the two. The second stage is a much more complex process, involving a more varied mechanism, and engaging in it different parts, the tongue, the pillars of the fauces, the soft palate, the larynx, and all the muscles of the pharynx. As soon as the food has passed the anterior palatine arch, that arch contracts, and by its constriction entirely prevents the regression of the food into the mouth ; at the same time the base of the tongue, and with it the food, is carried further back, and a second closure takes place from the approximation of the posterior pillars of the fauces, produced by the contraction of the palatopharyngeal muscles that form them: this part of the mechanism requires a little explanation. The contraction of the anterior pillars of the fauces closes the entrance into the mouth by a constriction or sphincter-like action: this is due to the general circular form of the constrictor isthmi fau- cium occasioned by the inward curvature of the upper and lower extremities of each palato- glossus muscle. The contraction of the palato- pharyngei is not of this nature; they have not the same inward curvature above and below, and their inferior attachments to the pos- terior borders of the thyroid cartilage are capable of very little approximation ; when, therefore, they contract, the soft palate being fixed, they approach one another laterally like two curtains, leaving a narrow chink in the middle, wider below than above. As soon as the food has passed this point, this contraction takes place, so that the two muscles of the opposite sides almost touch, the chink between them being occupied bv the relaxed uvula; the passage into the posterior nares and upper part of the pharynx is thus cut off, which has induced Dzondi to call the posterior palatine