SWEAT. 841 state cither the object of the vascular glands in general, or that of the supra-renal capsules in particular. Pathological .study also has, up to the present time, failed to afford any- thing which would allow any safe conclu- sion to be drawn concerning the function of the supra-renal capsules. By their concealed situation, they elude the experiments of the physiologist; besides this, they are so small, that their secretion can scarcely have any very sudden and visible influence on the vegetative life of the body. So that even by such an eager operative interference as the extirpation of this gland, the wished-for result might scarcely be obtained. I therefore repeat, that at present we are completely in the dark as to the function of the supra-renal capsules ; we know not at all in what way they operate, and on this account all references of the supra-renal capsules to this or that organ — such as have so often been made — are altogether empty and worth- less. We may see at a glance that it would be just as correct to assign a relation of the supra-renal capsules to the eye or ear, as to the sexual or urinary organs. Ecker, who, in opposition to our view, re- gards the secretion of all the vascular glands as one and the same, keeps its contents of fat and protein compound especially in view, and conjectures that all the vascular glands are adapted to the formation from the blood of a secretion which is rich in protein and fat, and which being subsequently retaken into the current of the blood, in this manner benefits nutrition. But apart from the fact, that one cannot see why such a fluid should take this round-about way through the vascular glands ; apart from this, the quantity of protein com- pounds in the secretion of all the vascular glands of the body, even if we take this at the highest estimate, is far too small to render any enrichment of albuminous materials which the body could obtain in this way other than a very inconsiderable one. The want of an excretory duct affords certainly this informa- tion, that the secretion prepared by the vesicles of the vascular glands is again received into the blood ; but even this notion has connected with it much that is obscure and uncertain. The difference of the function of the vascular glands is yet further upheld by the circum- stance that their vital duration and activity is different. The function of the thymus is the first to wane ; that of the supra-renal capsules seems likewise much diminished in more advanced age; while, on the contrary, the activity of the spleen endures for the whole life. These organs experience an excessive deposit of fat in their vesicles, and by this means gradually disappear. (Hcinrich Frey!)* SWEAT. — The cutaneous secretion is formed by the spiral sudoriferous canals dis- covered by Breschet and Purkinge. In con- * The Editor begs to make his acknowledgments to his friend Dr. Brinton for this translation from the German MS. of Professor Frey. sidering this subject it is important to make the distinction between sweat and that ex- halation which is constantly, and at the same time insensibly, excreting from the healthy skin. The latter is the manifestation of a function indispensably necessary for the con- tinuance of life ; while sweat may be regarded merely as an occasional result, and as pro- ducing on the surface certain excretive pro- ducts which under ordinary conditions only appear in small proportion on the skin, and find their more natural exit from the organism through other channels. It is true that sweat contains among its constituents the ordinary products of the insensible perspiration, but it also contains other matters of a solid kind which do not appear in a fluid form unless cutaneous excitement be brought about, and which in cold weather and in the case of in- dolent, inactive persons, adhere to the cuticle, and are gradually rubbed or washed off. These solid matters are not volatile at the ordinary temperature of the skin, and there- fore will not pass off from the body in mate- rial quantity by any amount of perspiration. They become constituents of sweat, however, inasmuch as they dissolve in the water which, under exercise or owing to excessive tempe- rature, appears on the surface. Thus sweat is constituted of the ordinary aqueous pro- ducts of the natural perspiration, which ap- pearing in large quantity ceases to be va- porised, and in addition it contains those cutaneous secretions which the water dis- solves, but which, when an animal does not sweat, appear in less quantity, and adhere undissolved to the surface. As the ordinary cutaneous transpiration forms an important part of sweat, 1 shall proceed to consider it before entering on the more immediate subject of the present article. In the healthy human subject, a portion of water is constantly finding its way to the surface, and under ordinary conditions is va- porised nearly as fast as it is secreted. Some difference is observed in individuals in this respect, however, so that we observe some whose skins are constantly moist, while others, though in perfect health, have the skin almost always dry, yet doubtless performing its ordi- nary function. Perhaps the most agreeable proportion of perspiration, and that which we should regard as approaching more nearly to the normal quantity, is that which maintains a certain moisture on the surface sufficient to impart an agreeable softness to the touch, and scarcely to convey the idea of moisture. Many attempts have been made to determine the quantity of the cutaneous transpiration, and perhaps nothing has ever been attempted so unpromising in result. It is almost certain, indeed, that we do not transpire equally during any two minutes of the day, and on no two days alike. Sanctorius, the Venetian physician, whose aphorisms contain much valuable matter, too much neglected by the physiologists of the present day, made lengthened experiments on perspiration. The insensible perspiration has,