1358 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. ficient reason ; and if this be the case, another link of transition exists, which, with those previously named, brings the two groups into such relations, that their separation cannot be justified. By Dr. Latham, accordingly, the Syro-Arabian or Semitic race is ranked with the African under the general designation Atlantidce. IV. American Nations.—The aboriginal inhabitants of America have been considered by some ethnologists as a department of the human family very distinct from the inhabit- ants of the Old World ; and attempts have been frequently made to define them as a race by physical characters. But these attempts have been founded upon a very imperfect acquaintance with the nations peopling this vast continent; for, taken in the aggregate, they are by no means uniform either in phy- sical qualities, in intellectual endowments, moral character, or grade of civilisational development; nor is the line of distinction between them and the rest of mankind nearly so obvious or strongly marked as is usually imagined. Thus the native Americans have been described as ,; red-men; " but there are tribes equally red, and perhaps more deserv- ing that epithet, in Africa and Polynesia; and the American nations are by no means all of a red or copper hue, some being as fair as many European people, others being brown or yellow, and others nearly, if not quite, as black as the Negroes of Africa. Again, it has been attempted by anatomists to dis- tinguish the American races by a certain con- figuration of skull and form of features ; and Fig. 845. Indian of the Oto tribe, — basin of the Mississippi. {From the " Atlas du Voyage du Prince de Neu- wied") Notwithstanding this diversity in their phy- sical characters, however, there is strong evidence that the American nations constitute one natural family,, bound together by com- munity of descent. This appears from the even Dr. Morton, in his splendid work en- titled " Crania Americana," has given his authority in support of the opinion, that such distinctive characters are to be found " in the squared or rounded head, the flattened and vertical occiput, the high cheek-bones, the ponderous maxillae, the large quadrangular orbits, and the low receding forehead." Nevertheless, even he is obliged to admit that very considerable diversities present them- selves in the cranial conformation of the American nations ; and he altogether ex- cludes the Esquimaux, who, according to the evidence of language, must be regarded as being as truly an American people as any other, in spite of their obvious conformity to the Mongolian type of cranial configuration. And it will be observed that many of the characters just enumerated are those of the Mongolian cranium ; a decided approximation to which may be seen among several tribes, whose dwelling is much further south than that of the Esquimaux. The testimony of travellers who have visited parts of the con- tinent remote from each other, and who have scrutinized with observant eyes the physi- ognomy and form of head, not in individuals only, but in nations, is very decided as to the marked varieties in configuration which pre- sent themselves among these; thus, says that eminent zoologist, M. D'Orbigny, "A Peru- vian is more different from a Patagonian, and a Patagonian from a Guarani, than is a Greek from an Ethiopian or a Mongolian." The ac- companying figures present examples of this diversity {Jigs. 845 and 846). Fig. 846. Soirth American of the Cliarruan tribe. (From a portrait by Werner, in the Museum of Paris.) remarkable relationship which has been dis- covered among their languages ; not, however, in their words or even their roots,but in their grammatical construction. In regard to vo- cabulary, indeed, there are few parts of the