TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). 1011 3 t 2 developed under two forms. In one, it occurs in combination with carcinomatous deposit : Fig. 65L Section of a cystic tumour of the testicle, showing a multitude of cysts of various shapes and sizes, with solid matte)- interposed betwen them. The natural glandular structure is wholly destroyed. in the other and more common form, the tumour is of an innocent character, and free from the risk of disease attacking other parts after removal of the organ. In the former the cysts are larger and less numerous than in the latter. By careful examination and with the aid of the microscope the coexist- ence of the two diseases may generally be made out. Ossific deposits in the testicle. — Earthy matter occurs in the testicle under two forms : 1. Laminated, and often mixed up with car- tilage ; and 2., as an inorganic deposit. In the first form it is usually deposited between the tunica vaginalis and tunica albuginea, in little bony or cartilaginous patches, in which a fibrous arrangement may be recognised. I have frequently found one or two irregularly- shaped projecting ossific bodies scarcely larger than a pin's head attached to the upper part of the testicle. Ossific matter occurs also on the adherent surface of the tunica vaginalis in old cases of hydrocele, where it has been found so abundant as to form a complete ossific capsule. It has been said that the epididymis alone may be encased in bone, the testicle being free ; this I have never seen. Bony matter occurs, however, in the sub- stance of the epididymis as the result of ossi- fication of the product of inflammation. Earthy matter in this form is not often ob- served in the substance of the testicle. The gland, however, when atrophied and reduced to a mere fibrous tissue, occasionally under- goes both the cartilaginous and osseous trans- formation. The cysts developed in the tes- ticle, as I have already shown, are liable to similar changes. In the second form the earthy matter is deposited in an irregular mass, containing very little animal matter; in appearance re- sembling mortar, and very similar to the earthy substance found in the lungs and bronchial glands. It is generally met with in the head of the epididymis, and sometimes in the lower part, and but very seldom in the body of the testicle. As I have already stated, it is most probable that this earthy matter results from the transformation of tubercular matter deposited in the testicle in early life. Loose bodies in the tunica vaginalis. — Loose bodies are occasionally found in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. They are small in size, and of an oval flattened shape, and their sur- face is smooth and polished. Their texture is in most instances elastic and homogeneous, resembling the unattached cartilages found in joints, and points of ossification are often contained in their interior. In some speci- mens I have observed the cartilaginous matter to be arranged in concentric laminae. The loose body is sometimes entirely composed of bony matter. On examining a thin lamina of one in the microscope, I could distinctly see small oval corpuscules with a number of lines proceeding from them very similar to those of bone. They seldom exceed three in number, and they occur generally in combination with hydrocele, the loose bodies being the original disease. Faelal remains in the testicle. — The remains of a foetus have been found in some rare instances, in the scrotum, in connection with the testicle. Several examples of the kind have been collected by Ollivier (D'Angers).* In all these cases it was evident that the scrotal inclusion had succeeded to an inclusion origi- nally abdominal; that is to say, that the organic debris were first situated in the ab- domen in connection with the testicle, and had accompaniad the gland in its passage out of that cavity. In the cases in which the particular testicle was indicated, the right was the one affected. Varicocele is a term applied to a morbid dilatation of the spermatic veins. On dis- section they are found dilated, elongated, and more tortuous than natural, and apparently more numerous, owing to the enlargement of the smaller vessels. In an advanced stage of the disease, their coats are thick- ened ; so that when divided the vessels re- main patent, and thus present the appear- ance of arteries. The enlarged veins hang down below the testicle, and reach upwards into the inguinal canal; and w hen very volu- * Memoire sur la Monstruosite par Inclusion; Archives Ge'ne'rale de Medicine, t. xv. p. 540.