1188 TUNICATA. simple (Jig. 778). Dendrodoa closely agrees with Cynthia in its branchial reticulations and its digestive apparatus; but, as Mr. Mac Leay has observed, of the two ovaries possessed by Cynthia, only one, and that the left, is found in Dendrodoa, whilst the right ovary alone is present in Pandocia. Genus Chelyosoma, Broderip and Sowerby. — Body depressed, oblong, fixed, sessile ; test coriaceous, its upper surface consisting of eight somewhat horny, angular plates; ori- fices small, prominent, perforating the plated surface, each surrounded by six triangular valvules (fig. 767.); branchiae plicated ; ten- tacles simple. Fig. 767. Chelyosoma Macleayanum. (After Broderip and Sowerby.) a, branchial orifice; b, anal orifice; e, coriaceous envelope of the sides; d, stone to which the animal is fixed. To the Ascidiada? we may provisionally join the following obscure form, occurring on the coasts of South America: Genus Fodia, Bosc. — Body oval, mammil- lated, divided throughout its length by a vertical partition, which contains the stomach, into two unequal tubes open at each end by an orifice, the superior aperture rather depressed and ir- regularly toothed, the inferior bordered by a circular collar forming a sucker, and serving to attach the animal to extraneous objects. Genus Boltenia, Savigny ; synonym, Ascidia, Auct. — Body more or less globular, fixed, pe- dunculated, attached sometimes to the stem of another individual; test coriaceous; ori- fices lateral, and each cleft into four rays ; branchial sac longitudinally plicated ; sur- mounted by a circle of compound tentacula. Genus Cystingia, MacLeay. — Body glo- bular, fixed, pedunculated ; test subcoriaceous; branchial orifice quadrifid, lateral; anal irre- gular, terminal; branchial sac plicated; tenta- cula compound. Genus Bipapillaria, Lamarck. — Body more or less globular, free, pedunculated ; test mem- branous ; the extremity of the body opposite to the attachment of the peduncle bearing two equal, conical papilla?, having their apices per- forate ; each orifice furnished with three very short, stiff, setaceous, retractile tentacles.* * This obscure genus was established by Lamarck from a description and figure in Pe'ron's MSS. Family Clavellinid^e, E. Forbes. Syno- nyms : Ascidia;, Auct. ; Tcthyes simples, pars, Savigny ; Ascidiens sociales, Milne-Edwards ; Perophoriens, Van Beneden. Body compound, fixed ; animals connected by creeping, tubular prolongations of the com- mon tunic, through which the blood circu- lates. This family comprises two genera: — Genus Clavellina, Savigny; synonym, As- cidia, Auct. — Body elongated, erect, more or less pedunculated ; test smooth and trans- parent ; branchial and anal orifices without rays ; thorax usually marked with coloured lines (fig. 768.). Fig. 768. Clavellina producta. Group of two adult and se- veral young individuals, magnified about five times. {After Milne-Edwards.) c, branchial orifice; e, branchiae; h, cloaca; i, anal orifice; It, inner tunic or mantle; /, stomach; m, intestine; n, termination of the anus and oviduct in the cloaca; o, the heart; p, ovary; p", ova ready to pass into the cloaca; u, ui, u", reproductive buds, in different degrees of development, springing from the abdomen of the adults. Genus Perophora, Wiegmann.*—Individuals pedunculated, suborbicular, compressed; tho- rax not lineated by granular bands. * This curious little social Ascidian was first described and illustrated by Mr. J. Lister, in a paper " On the Structure and Functions of tubular and cellular Polypi and of the Ascidia?," Philos. Trans. 1834. Lister gave no name to the animal,