1088 THYMUS GLAND. Fig. 718. Thymus, fyc, of human fcetus at third month. {After Sir A. Cooper.') month (fig- 720.) has undergone a sudden change, becomes of great size, and is said to weigh half an ounce, from which circumstance, however, on account of the cavities which it Fig. 719. Thymus, §•£•., of human fcetus at fifth month. (After Sir A. Cooper.) contains, and the varieties to which it is sub- ject, no judgment of its bulk can be formed. It increases after birth, and continues large to the first year, when it slowly disappears to the time of puberty; and in after age it ceases to have cavities, and becomes a body of very small dimensions." He next notices the following varieties in configuration :—" Although the gland is usu- ally double, and the one side united to the other by cellular membrane only, yet it some- times happens that a third thoracic lobe exists, which appears to join one lobe with the other, but which allows, under a careful dissection, of their being separated. There are also two other varieties I have seen ; the first is the vena innominata passing through the gland, and the second, the same vein placed anteriorly to the cervical lobes. Indeed, I scarcely find two organs alike in form ; sometimes they are round, whilst others are of great length, and are so thin that the serpentine disposition of their lobes may be seen without dissection. The left gland is often larger than the right; but even in this respect so much variety is observable, that it appears if the bulk of the Fig. 720. Tliymus, fyc., of human fcetus at ninth month. (After Sir A. Cooper.) whole be the same, that it is of little import- ance which may be of the greater magnitude, the right or left gland, as its secretion will be equally abundant." The relative situation of the thymus gland to the adjacent parts is described as follows : —" In cutting through the sternum in its long axis, and then separating its two lateral portions, so as to give a good view of the mediastinum, the thymus gland appears situ- ated behind the first and part of the second bone of the sternum; and posteriorly to the origins of the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thy- roidei muscles. It reaches more than half way down the sternum at birth, viz. to the fourth rib, and extends from thence into the neck near to the thyroid gland. It is con- nected to the sternum and origins of the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles by cellular tissue; it adheres strongly, by a coarse cellular membrane, to the pericardium ; an- teriorly and laterally the internal mammary arteries and veins take their course. The reflection of the pleura descending from the cartilages of the ribs on each side, and con- tinued to the fore part of the pericardium forming the anterior mediastinum, makes its lateral boundaries, and separates it from the lungs; posteriorly it rests upon the vena in- nominata, and upon the fascia of the thorax, which descends from the sternum and first rib to the curvature of the aorta, and to the three large vessels which spring from it." " Such, then, is the relative situation of the gland in the chest. In the dissection of the cervical