1526 WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). Arthritis, or White Swelling, of the Wrist. — When we remove the integuments from the wrist, in one of those advanced cases of chronic strumous disease of the radio-carpal and inter-carpal articulations, we encoun- ter the usual appearance of a gelatiniform effusion, of a yellowish-green colour ; we observe the tendons and nerves somewhat swelled, as if infiltrated; the ligaments all softened ; purulent matter occupying the in- terstices of the articular surfaces ; the bones easily yielding to pressure, hollow and carious in the centre of their cancillated tissue; and leading from these carious bones, are seen fistulous canals opening extensively by nu- merous orifices on the cutaneous surface of the wrist. In the Museum of the College of Surgeons of Dublin we find a preparation, which is truly designated as an instructive one, show- ing the effects of scrofulous disease on the bones and other structures of the wrist. To save the patient's life, it became necessary to perform an amputation of the forearm. The hand has been preserved in spirits, and the back of the carpus has been laid open to view. The wrist is semi-flexed ; the palm and fingers are swollen, and the front of the joint is studded with fistulous orifices. One soli- tary fistulous orifice appears in the centre of the palm. The bones of the carpus, deprived of their synovial membranes and ligaments, are loose and disjointed; and to use the words of the donor, the late Professor Todd, " they felt during life like a bag of marbles." There is also another preparation, styled " scrofulous disease of the carpus, meta-car- pus, and extremity of the radius," presented by Professor Porter. The bones are re- remarkably soft, light, and porous. The na- tural shape of each is considerably altered, by loss of substance in some parts, and de- posits of new osseous matter in others : the latter, wherever it exists, has a peculiar spi- culated appearance; some of the bones are increased in size, others diminished; the car- tilages have, for the most part, disappeared ; the synovial membrane of the smaller joints had been completely destroyed ; that of the radio-carpal articulation was hypertrophied, soft, and pulpy. The ligaments were not recognizable, and the bones lay almost loose in a quantity of purulent matter, with which a fistulous orifice, in the front of the joint, communicated. The skin, the cellular tissue, and the sheaths of the tendons were infil- trated with a thin gelatinous fluid ; the median and ulnar nerves were remarkably enlarged. The scrofulous disease, commencing in the centre of the cancellous structure of the bones of the carpus and carpal extremity of the radius, does not always proceed thus un- favourably. Anchylosis, with partial displace- ment of the forearm at the wrist-joint, may, as already stated, be established, as the result of the morbid action we are here treating of. In the Museum of Anatomy in Leyden there is a preparation of the bones of the wrist, in which the carpal extremity of the radius and ulna are much enlarged and remark- ably scabrous on their surface; the radius and ulna are anchylosed firmly with each other near to the carpus; the os lunare was united to both radius and ulna; the os sca- phoides, cuneiform and magnum, had totally disappeared; the trapezium was also firmly united to the meta-carpal bone of the thumb and with that of the index finger. In the above-mentioned Museum at Ley- den there is also another preparation, ex- hibiting anchylosis of the bones of the forearm, and of the carpus, at the wrist-joint, after the disease, which had arisen, we are told, from a scrofulous cause, had happily been cured. In concluding, then, the account of the anatomical characters of the scrofulous caries of the bones which compose the region of the wrist, we may observe, that, as a result of this disease, some of the carpal bones are di- minished in size in many cases, while in others they are enlarged. We have noticed some specimens in which two or three of the carpal bones have disappeared altogether, while others have had additional bony growths attached to them. The lower extremities of the bones of the forearm, in almost all the cases, were found rough and scabrous, and increased in bulk, particularly close to the wrist-joint. We, also, after our own examina- tion of the bones of the region of the wrist, have to make the same observation that Sandiford has made relative to the specimens he has preserved in the Anatomical Museum of Leyden, of which he says, — " Omnia hcec ossa levissima sunt."* Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis of the Wrist. — The wrist-joints, together with the joints of the carpus, are very frequently affected with the disease we have elsewhere, in this work, called " Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis," or rheumatic gout. When the joints which enter into the region of the wrist are engaged, the fingers are all more or less distorted, and their joints en- larged, as already described. (See Hand.) Females are more liable to have their wrist- joints affected with chronic rheumatic arth- ritis than males, and elderly persons more commonly than those who are young; but this disease is to be seen, occasionally, in young persons of both sexes. The disease, when it appears in the wrist-joint, will, in general, be found to affect, symmetrically, the right and left wrist of the patient. The cause of the disease is generally referred to rheu- matic fever, and the other articulations of the patient are usually more or less implicated. The patient complains of pain in the joints, particularly at night, of stiffness and rigidity, and of a crackling sensation in them when they are moved. When we come to examine the wrist, it is remarked to present a preter- natural convexity on its dorsal aspect, arising from an inordinate quantity of fluid poured out into the synovial sac of the joint. The * Museum Anatomicum, Sandiford, p. 244. vol. iii.