1509 WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). 5 d 3 puytren did not suppose had been fractured, for the last seventeen years. She is liable to was deformed, and only six inches and a half long. At the period when this case, the subject of so much difference of opinion between two such eminent pathologists, attracted the atten- tion of the profession in Dublin, the writer had under his care, in the House of Industry, a patient who was born with deformity of both her wrist-joints and forearms, but whose right wrist-joint presented appearances closely resembling those described as characterising the deformity of the wrist and forearm in Cruveilhier's case. As the history of this woman's case was known from her birth, it was calculated to throw light on the subject in dispute. It seemed on this and other ac- counts so interesting, that on the 15th of De- cember, 1838, 1 laid it before the Pathological Society in Dublin. It was as follows : — Case II. — Deborah O'Neil, aged thirty, has been an inmate of the House of Industry, occasional attacks of epilepsy. She cannot be said to be insane, but she is wayward and refractory, and will not submit to any rational control. Yet she is very industrious. Her upper arms and hands bear in size and length a just proportion to the rest of her stature, winch is about the middle size, but her fore- arms appear scarcely more than half their normal length. Her left forearm is dislocated forward at the radio-carpal joint, while the right forearm is dislocated, as in the preceding figure, back- ward on the dorsum of the carpus. The lower extremities of the bones of the right forearm could be seen and felt on the dorsum of the carpus, where they formed a very remarkable projection. The lowest ex- tremity of the ulna could be seen to descend below the level of the lowest extremity of the dislocated radius, and when the hand of the patient was flexed could be made very promi- Fis. 925. Rigid Forearm, dislocated at Wrist. Case of O'Neil. ncntly to distend the skin posteriorly. When the surgeon introduced his fingers in front of the wrist-joint, and made a slight extension of the hand, the superior extremity of the carpus could be felt to be placed superiorly and ante- riorly to the lowest extremities of the bones of the forearm. The hand inclined to the radial side, it could be extended on the fore- arm freely, but flexion was incomplete. The left wrist-joint presented an unique example of dislocation of the bones of the forearm exactly in the opposite direction to those already described. The forearm was thrown forwards, and the carpus with the hand on tiie back of the radius and ulna {Jig. 926.). This woman presented a very grotesque ap- pearance in consequence of the remarkable shortness of both her forearms (Jigs. 920. and 927.) ; still she had a very good use of her hands, and showed admirable dexterity and skill in cutting out minute patterns on paper with her scissors.