1325 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. city than the largest Anglo-American. It is obvious, then, that no constant and impass- able line of distinction can be drawn on this basis, between any of the varieties of the human race. We have now to inquire if the foregoing types of cranial conformation are sufficiently fixed and definite to furnish specific characters ; that is (1.), whether they are always clearly distinguishable from each other, or are con- nected together by a succession of gradations that renders it impossible to draw a distinct line of demarcation between them : and (2.) whether they are so invariably transmitted from one generation to another, where the purity of the race has been preserved, as to entitle them to be regarded as permanent and unalterable ; or are occasionally seen to vary in a succession of generations, so that a race loses more or less completely its original type, and assumes some other. When the cranial conformation of the whole Indo"Atlantic group of nations is care- fully examined, it is perceived that although the elliptical type prevails among them, it is comparatively seldom seen in its perfection, and that a decided tendency is frequently seen towards one or other of the other types, or towards a mixture of the characters of all. Considerable variation is thus presented, not merely by the different races, but by different individuals of the same race. Thus in every large collection of English skulls, for example, crania would probably be found differing nearly as widely from each other in the proportion of length to breadth, as do the average of Negro and Mongolian crania; whilst, again, some would exhibit more or less of approximation to the prognathous type, and others to the pyramidal. Of the former we have an example in Jig. 818., and Fig. 818. Dolichocejmalic Cranium oj Eurojiean. {From a specimen in the Aluseum of the Royal College of Surgeons.*) of the latter mflg. 819.* ; the first of these skulls would certainly be placed, if the dimen- * Of these and most of the other figures of crania illustrating this article, the author would remark that, although every pains has been taken by the artist, it has been found impossible to express adequately on a small scale some of those nicer features of distinction, which are obvious enough in the skulls themselves. Fig. 819. Bradii/cephalic Cranium of an Englishman. {From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) sions of its cranial portion were alone re- garded, in the " dolichocephalic " division of Professor Retzius, and only wants a little more elongation of the muzzle to be almost as prognathous as many African skulls ; whilst in the second, the breadth and front-flattening of the malar bones, with the inferior breadth of the forehead, show that it is obviously in- termediate in character between the typical oval (Jig. 815) and the typical pyramidal (fig. 811). So, again, if the so-called Mon- golian group be surveyed, it will be found that the peculiarities of the pyramidal skull are often softened down, so as to present an approach to the elliptical form, sometimes through the whole of certain races, occasion- ally only in individuals. Here, too, there is a tendency to an admixture of types ; for we find among the American nations a very- gradual transition from the truly pyramidal, such as is seen in the Esquimaux (Jig. 820), Fig. 820. Cranium of Esquimaux. (From a specimen hi the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) to a form in which there is at least as great an admixture of the prognathous (Jig. 822); whilst among the Chinese and other civilised nations of South-eastern Asia, we find so close an approximation to the oval type, that individuals are not unfrequently met with amongst them, whose skulls might be taken for those of Europeans.* So, again, if we * Such was the case, for example, with the Chinese skull, whose measurements are given by Professor Van der Hoeven (op. cit.); for in every one of its dimensions it varied less from the aver-