1359 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. Fig. 847. South American o f the Puri tribe,— interior of Brazil. {After Rugendas.) globe in which so many dialects, or even dis- tinct languages, are spoken within such limited areas ; and thus, if difference in this respect be considered as a sufficient reason for denying the mutual affinity of the races, the number of separate stocks must be enor- mously multiplied. On the other hand, the mutual relationship just indicated, which con- sists more particularly in the very remarkable agglutination of words or portions of words, has been found in all the American languages which have been carefully examined, including some of the most important dialects spoken in parts of the continent very remote from each other. And it is easily shown that this practice, carried on without any regular sys- tem, but according to the wants and caprices of each detached community, will, in the absence of such a literature as gives fixity to a language, almost necessarily induce such changes, that two offsets of the same stock, developing themselves under different circum- stances, shall cease in a few generations to be mutually intelligible. There are other causes, too, in the character of the people themselves, and in the mode in which they employ lan- guage, which tend to introduce such varia- tions. Their speech is, for the most part, rather an expression of their own ideas and emotions, than a reflex of external things, — much more subjective than objective ; and hence their names for the most familiar objects, or the simplest ideas, are long compound words or epithets, which are in striking contrast with the brief terms employed for the same pur- poses by most other nations. This feature in their phraseology seems common to all the American languages ; and it is strikingly indicative of a fundamental peculiarity in the psychical character of the people, namely, a predominance of the imaginative and rhetorical disposition, over the mere sensuousness which is observable among most nations that have Fig. 848. South American of the Achagua tribe,—basin of the Orinoco. {From a portrait by 31. Roulin.~) attained to a similar grade of material pro- gress. Those, indeed, who are most familiar with the psychical nature of the aborigines of America, have been struck with the manifes- tations they present of greater energy and mental vigour, of a more reflective nature, of greater fortitude, and of more consistent per- severance in their various pursuits and enter- prises, than are to be met with among any of the aboriginal nations of the Old World ; and these peculiarities are in great part due to the intensity of their selfish emotions, which ex- hibits itself in the sullen and unsocial cha- racter, the proud apathetic endurance, the intensity of hatred and revenge, the feeble influence of the benevolent affections, and the deep malice-concealing dissimulation, which are so remarkable in the dwellers amid the dark solitudes of the American forests. Among many of the American nations, moreover, traces have been observed of ancient institu- tions,— complicated forms of government, regulated despotisms or monarchies, privileged orders, hierarchical and sacerdotal ordinances, systematic laws (the result of reflection and a settled purpose) connected with marriage, in- heritance, family relationships, &c. and other customs, — that mark a very early progress in social development, the forms of which are in great degree peculiar to them. Their opinions, moreover, respecting a future state, and the nature and attributes of invisible agents, are strikingly different from those of nations who have never emerged from primi- tive barbarism. They have had in use, more- over, from time immemorial, cultivated plants and domestic animals, different from those of the Old World; and their earliest traditions refer the knowledge of these to some fabulous person, who descended from the gods, or who suddenly made his appear- ance among their ancestors ; thus indicating the remoteness of the era of their separation