1505 WRIST-JOINT (Normal Anatomy). Besides stridulation, and humming, some insects, such as hees, emit a cry, or, as the French entomologists term it, piaulemcnt. M. Goureau supposes this variety of voice to be used, when bees swarm preparatory to their emigration. He remarks that those insects which produce the sound by friction arc not singers, but musicians; and that insects in general make use of their voices to communi- cate certain ideas and sensations. Fig. 923. Thoracic spii-acle of the Humble Bee (Bombus terrestris). In insects we find a great diversity of beau- tifully contrived mechanism for the modula- tion of sound, all answering the same end in the economy of these countless myriads of minute beings. Bibliography .— J. Casserii Placent. De Vocis Organis, Ferrar, I COO, fol. Hieron Fabricii, Oper. oinn. Lips. 1637. fol. Aristotle, torn. ii. p. 281. Galen, torn. iv. chap xi. Dodart, Mem. de l'Aead. de Paris, 1700, 1706, 1707. Wallis (J.), De Lo- quela, 1740. Ferrein, ibid, 1741. Bertln, Nouveaux Sys. de la Voix, 1745. Herrissant, Me'ni. de l'Aead. de Paris, 1/53. Steller, Beschreibmng von Sonder- baren Meerthieren, Halle, 1753. Busch,~De Mecha- nismoOrgani Vocis.Groning. 1770. Pallas, Spicilegia Zoolog. Berolini, 1777, 1778. Vicq-D'Azyr, Mem. de l'Aead., 1779. Camper, Phil. Trans., 1770. Vbgel (B. A.), De Larynge Humana; et Holler, Element. Physiol, torn. iii. vol. ii., 1787. Amman (J. C), 1700. Humboldt and Bonpland, Recueil d'Observ. de Zool., Paris, 1805, fol. Blumenbach, Handbuch der Vergleichenden Anat. Gottingen, 1805. Dutrochet, Essai d'une Nouvelle Theorie de la Voix Humaine. Paris, 1806. Young (Dr. T.) Lectures on Natural Philosophy, vol. iv., 1807. Yarrell, Linn. Trans, vol. xvi. Gockel, De Voce Animal. Mix. Acad. Nat. Cur. Wolff, Diss. Anat. de Organo Vocis Mam- malium. Berol. 1812. Savart, Annal. et de Chemie de Physique, torn. 24. 26. 29. 32. Liscovius, Theorie dcr Stimme. Leipz. 1814. Magendie, Precis Ele- ment, de Phys. Perrault, Mem. pour servir a l'Histoire des Anim. torn. iii. Blot, Precis Element, de Physique, Paris, 1824. Chladnt, in Gilbert's Ann. 76. p. 187. Bennati, Recherches sur le Me'canisme de la Voix Humaine. Paris, 1832. , Willis, Trans. Phil. Soc. Cambridge, 1832. Sir C. Bell, Phil. Trans. 1836. Gui lt, Vergl. Anat. der Haussaugethicre, 1830. Goureau, Essai sur la Stridulation des Insectes. Ann. de la Soeio'te Entomologique. Paris, 1837. Burmeister (H.), On the Cause of the Sound produced by VOL. IV. Insects in Flying, Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, vol. i. 1837. Meckel, Anat. Comparoe, tome dixicme. Paris, 1838. Henle, Des Kehlkopfs der Reptilien. Leipzig, 1839. Cams, Lehrbuch derVerchlichenden Zootomie, Bd. 1. Wagner, Lehrbuch der Ver- chleichenden Anat. Treriranus, Erschcinungen and Gesetze Ovganischen. Bd. 2. Cuvier, Anat. Com- parce, torn. viii. Paris, 1846. Mayo, Outlines of Physiol. Ldtfrlilt, Diss, de Vocis Formatione, Berol. Miiller, Elements of Physiol, by Baly, p. 1002. {John Bishop.') WORMIANA OSSA (vide Cranium). WRIST-JOINT (Radio-carpal Articula- tion'), Normal Anatomy ov the. — The ar- ticulation of the wrist results from the union of the bones of the lore-arm with those of the hand, and is constituted by the contact of the lower surfaces of the radius and of the trian- gular interarticular cartilage with the sca- phoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones of the carpus. The radius and the triangular fibro- cartilage accordingly present a uniformly smooth and slightly concave surface, whilst the first three bones of the carpus afford a surface which is as uniformly convex. The transverse measurement of these articular surfaces is greater than the antero-posterior, since the former averages one inch and a half in the adult male, whilst the latter scarcely exceeds three quarters of an inch. In this joint are found all the anatomical dispositions which characterize other arthro- dial articulations : the bones are invested with cartilage, lined by a synovial membrane, and present smooth surfaces which deviate but slightly from being planiform ; and lastly, the ligaments connecting the osseous surfaces are so disposed, as to admit of all the free gliding motions which are indispensable to the hand as an organ of touch and of prehension. It is proposed in this article to describe, seriatim, the different structures which enter into the composition of the radio-carpal articulation, with their relative anatomy, but for a detailed account of the surgical anatomy of the region of the wrist, the reader is re- ferred to the article Hand, where this subject has been fully entered into. I. The Bones which constitute the wrist-joint. a. The Radius. — The lower end of the radius, which is of a quadrilateral form, is curved so as to present a concavity ante- riorly, and a convexity in the opposite direction. On its different aspects various objects of interest present themselves to view, which may be thus enumerated: — Anteriorly is seen a smooth surface, to which the ten- dons of the flexor muscles, surrounded by their synovial sheath, are applied ; ^jos/en'or/y, a series of depressions and irregular elevations are observable, the former of which indicate the course of different tendons passing to the hand. Of these depressions the most ex- ternal is a broad but shallow groove, which lodges the tendons of the radial extensors of the carpus: to its inner side, hut separated from it by a well-marked ridge, is a narrow deep groove, which runs obliquely down- wards and outwards, and transmits in this 5 D