1096 THYMUS GLAND. all the cavities {fig. 731.)- The lobular ca- consisted chiefly of aggregations of oil drops vities were completely filled by aggregations and molecules. Within the thorax at its of celloid particles, which were not manifestly upper part there was a similar lobulated grey- nucleated, nor provided with an envelope, but ish white mass, resting upon the lower part of Fig. 731. Convexity of lobe from oil gland of Bat. A homogeneous membrane encloses a multitude of celloid par- ticles,—the exterior row of which alone is visible, the rest of the mass being quite opaque. the trachea and the great vessels, and ex- tending round so as to come in contact on each side with the lung ; the structure of this was precisely the same as that of the masses at the root of the neck, with which however it was not continuous. I am much inclined to regard these organs as representatives of the thymus, both from their structure and situa- tion, and because I know not what else they could be ; they are not for a moment to be confounded with the ordinary adipose tissue. Among Inseclivora the thymus forms two nearly equal lobes, lying on the base of the heart and origin of the large vessels, with greater vertical than transverse dimensions. In some individuals,at least, it is not persistent throughout life, nor does it appear to be spe- cially developed. In two Hedgehogs which I dissected, one of which had been in a state of torpor until three days before death, and the other had been active and wakeful for several weeks, I found at either side of the root of the neck two roundish masses almost precisely similar in appearance to those existing in the same situation in the bat, and also two broader and thinner ones lying in the ax- illae ; but there was no trace of any such tissue in the thorax. The celloid particles were more loaded with oil than in the bat, especially in the dormant one, and in some parts they were more or less broken up and the oily matter diffused in the cavity. Re- specting the existence of a real thymus distinct from these glandular masses I am in doubt, it is not altogether easy to distinguish the structure from that of lymphatic glands several of which lie upon the great vessels at their origin from the heart. However this be it is well worth remarking, that in two hi- bernating animals belonging to different orders, peculiar organs of precisely similar structure were found ; while, on the other hand, in a mole (an animal which I believe does not hibernate) I could find no unequivocal trace of thymus, nor of the peculiar oil glands which I have described as existing in the bat and hedgehog. This would indicate the existence of the oil gland to have reference to hiberna- tion, but a more extended inquiry on this head is of course necessary before this sug- gestion could have much claim to be received. Among Carnivora the thymus, except in the cat tribe, where it seems generally to vanish at an early period, is entirely thoracic, resting upon the upper part of the pericar- dium and the origin of the vessels. When mature "it has considerable thickness and substance in the direction from before back- ward, and its right and left lobes irregularly overlap each other, so as to render the sepa- ration between them indistinct." When the gland becomes attenuated it assumes the form of a triangle, with the apex much pro- longed upwards. The thymus has been found by Mr. Simon in (young) seals, though other ana- tomists, including Meckel, who, as he says, was little likely to overlook its presence, had not observed its existence ; from this he concludes that it declines and disappears in this family, as in most other mammalia. Its form in the common seal, when pre- sent, is nearly symmetrical, consisting of two broad thickish lobes, which prolong themselves upwards to the root of the neck, and abruptly terminate by clubbed extremi- ties, which are deeply grooved in front by the left vena innominata. In the order of MarsupiaUa, three most eminent anatomists had failed to recognise the existence of a thymus, Mr. Simon has, however, discovered this gland in several in- stances, it is mostly placed on the pericar- dium, not reaching into the neck. In the fcetus of the Kangaroo it has a peculiar con- formation, being provided with a third, me- dian, lobe projecting outwards between the two others. Among Rodents the thymus differs in shape in the various genera. It consists in the rat of two elongated parallel lobes, reaching from the base of the heart to the root of the neck. In the hare it is much thicker, but still only extends to the root of the neck. In the hibernating rodents the thymus is believed to undergo at the approach of winter a re- markable alteration, apparently as a prepara- tion for the long sleep of that season. Tie- demann describes in a Marmot, which he examined in the month of November while in a state of torpor, the gland as " filling the whole of the anterior and posterior medias- tina, extending along the great vessels of the