TONGUE. ] 138 which, in injected specimens, the individual loops of capillaries may be seen projecting with great regularity and beauty (B). The fungiform papillae are largest about the centre of the tongue, smallest along the edges, and most numerous at the sides of the tip, but they are liable to the greatest variety in their size and distribution ; I have seen them so large about the centre of the tongue, as almost to equal in size the circumvallate ; I have seen them so numerous at the tip, as nearly to equal in number the filiform among which they were scattered ; again, in the same region, I have seen them so scanty, that they could hardly be said to exist there.* The conical or filiform papillae, the third class, constitute the great mass of the papillary structure; they cover, in a close-set pile, the whole of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, being limited behind by the circum- vallate, and having the fungiform scattered among them : it is their structure that imparts the rough coriaceous character to the papil- lary surface, and they constitute the fur in the centre. They are altogether smaller, but in length they exceed, at least in the centre, the other two forms, and they exhibit greater di- versity of structure and a more complete ab- sence of typical shape than either of the other varieties. They affect in some situations a Fig. 756. A filiform papilla taken from the dorsum o f a tongue in which the fur was much developed. {Mag. 30 diam.) a, imbricated scaly epithelium investing the cylin- drical portion of the papilla; b, the commence- ment of its breaking up; c, its separation into its ultimate filamentary processes; d, the deep layer of epithelium exposed by the removal of the more scaly superficial one. * May not these varieties explain the correspond- ing diversities in the acuteness of the sense of taste, •which we so often find in different individuals? linear arrangement, principally at their con- fines, that is, in front of and around the caliciform papillae, where they are continuous with the elevations that surround these pa- pilla?, of which they are the continuations forwards and outwards, and along the whole free margin of the tongue, except at the tip, where the linear arrangement cannot be traced. In the first-mentioned situation their rows run forwards and outwards, coinciding with the arms of the V-shaped figure that the cir- cumvallate papillae assume ; in the last-men- tioned, they are placed vertically along the sides (fig. 745. ii) : they have been well de- scribed and figured by Soemmering.* Along the centre of the tongue, in the neighbourhood of the median furrow, the conical papillae often assume a cracked and fissured appearance ; but the linear arrangement is less marked here, and the fissures have no determinate direc- tion, but can be made and effaced according to the movements of the tongue. The conical papillae are largest in the neighbourhood of the circumvallate, where they are truncated, and where some of them assume almost a fungiform shape: they are longest about the centre of the tongue, near the median line, and smallest in the anterior part, near the side and tip. The form of the projections of base- ment membrane, on which the epithelium is Fig. 757. Vertical section o f conical papilla'. (Mag. 25 diam.') a, basement surface; b, conical papilla of ordinary shape; c, more nearly approaching the simple form; g, one quite simple; e, deep cellular layer of epithelium ; /, superficial scaly portion; h h, points from which the filamentary prolongations would have passed up. placed, constituting the mould of the true papillary structure, is generally something of a cylindrical shape, the top supporting second- ary papillae, or it is conical, the secondary papillae being continued more or less down the sides : or the base is small, and supports a more expanded portion, and thus the conical is seen to pass into the fungiform shape. But it is in the epithelium that the characteristic difference between these and the other papillae * Icones Organorum humanorum gustus et rocis. Francofurti, 1808.