TEETH. 914 ridge, and bounded by an internal belt, the cingulum of Illiger: this tooth has a similarly shaped, but relatively smaller, crown in Arc- tonyx* The second premolar below (p. 2) is commonly the first, through the early loss of the minute one in front ; its fangs are usually connate, as in its homotype above. The third and fourth premolars slightly in- crease in size, have simple compressed conical crowns, and two fangs each. The first true molar below (m. 1) now retains little of its sectorial character, the blade being represented only by the two anterior small, compressed pointed lobes; behind these, the crown ex- pands into an oval grinding surface, narrower in Arctonyx than in Meles, supporting three tubercles and a posterior tuberculate ridge: it has generally two principal roots and a small intermediate accessory fang, as in the otter. The second molar (m. 2), which ter- minates the series below, is of small size, and has a rounded flat crown, depressed in the centre, and with two small external tubercles; its two short fangs are connate. In the Labrador Badger, the last premolar has a larger relative size, the part corresponding with the blade of the sectorial, is sharper and more produced, and the internal tu- bercle has two lobes; the succeeding molar tooth is reduced in size, and its crown pre- sents a triangular form. The first true molar below has its sectorial lobes better developed : these differences give the North American badgers a more carnivorous character than is manifested by the Indian or European species. Sub-UrsidcB.—In other allied genera, which, like the badgers, have been grouped, on ac- count of the plantigrade structure of their feet, with the bears, a progressive approxi- mation is made to the type of the dentition of the Ursine species. The first true molar below soon loses all its sectorial mollification, and acquires its true tubercular character: and the last premolar above becomes more directly and completely opposed to its homo- type in the lower jaw. The Racoon (Procyon f) and the Coati (Nasua) present good examples of these transitional modifications ; they have the complete number of premolar teeth, the 3—3 1 — 1 4—4 dental formula being, i. c- P' 4=4' m. 2 2 : = 40. The development of the in- ner part of the crown of the last upper pre- molar, which constitutes the tubercle of the sectorial tooth, now produces two tubercles on a level with the outer ones which represent the blade; and the opposite premolar below (p. 4), which is the true homotype of the modified sectorial above, begins to acquire a marked increase of breadth and accessory basal tu- bercles. All the lower premolars, as well as the true molars, have two fangs; the three first premolars above have two fangs, the fourth has three, like the two true molars above. The dental formula of the Indian Bentu- * See Odontography, pi. 128, fig. 13, m. 1. t lb. pi. 129, fig. 7. t lb. figs. 8—13. rong (Arctictis) and Kinkajou (Cereoleptes) is . 3—3 1—1 3—3 2—2 3=3' °- 1=1'P- 5=3'm- 2=2 : = 36- Phocidce. — We have seen a tendency to deviate from the ferine number of the incisors in the most aquatic and piscivorous of the Musteline quadrupeds, viz. the sea-otter (Enhydra), in which species the two middle incisors of the lower jaw are not developed in the permanent dentition. In the family of true seals, the incisive formula is further re- duced, in some species even to zero in the 3 3 lower jaw, and it never exceeds ^. All the Phocidce possess powerful canines ; only in the aberrant walrus {Trichechus) are theyabscnt in the lower jaw, but this is compensated by the singular excess of development which they manifest in the upper jaw. In the pinnigrade, as in the plantigrade, family of Carnivores we find the teeth which correspond to true mo- lars more numerous than in the digitigrade species, and even occasionally rising to the typical number, three on each side ; but this, in the seals, is manifested in the upper and not, as in the bears, in the lower jaw. The entire molar series usually includes five, rarely six teeth on each s'de of the upper jaw, and five on each side of the lower jaw, with crowns, which vary little in size or form in the same individual ; they are supported in some genera, as the Eared Seals (Otarice) and Elephant Seals (Cystojihora*), by a single fang; in other genera f by two fangs, which are usually connate in the first or second teeth ; the fang or fangs of both incisors, canines and molars, are always remarkable for their thickness, which commonly sur- passes the longest diameter of the crown. The crowns are most commonly compressed, conical, more or less pointed, with the " cin- gulum " and the anterior and posterior basal tubercles more or less developed; in a few of the largest species they are simple and ob- tuse, and particularly so in the walrus, in which the molar teeth are reduced to a smaller number than in the true seals.J In these the line of demarcation between the true and false molars is very indefinitely in- dicated by characters of form or position ; but, according to the instances in which a deciduous dentition has been observed, the first three permanent molars in both jaws succeed and displace the same number of milk molars, and are consequently premolars ; occasionally, in the seals with two-rooted molars, the more simple character of the premolar teeth is manifested by their fangs being connate, and in the Stenorhynchus serri- dens the more complex character of the true molars is manifested in the crown. There is no special modification of the crown of any tooth by which it can merit the name of a * Odontography, pi. 132, fig. 7. f lb. figs. 1—4. j The relation of Trichechus to the Phocidce is analogous to that of Machairodus to the Felida; and also, in the simplification of the molars, to that of Proteles to Canidce.