THYROID GLAND. 1103 without isthmus, having one column (right), and an isolated portion on the left. 6. Thy- roid with one lobe only developed, and a little glandular body below the middle of thyroid cartilage. 7. Thyroid gland replaced by a membranous substance, two small por- tions only remaining. 8. The gland with isthmus and two mesian columns. It is important to ascertain accurately the situations and relations of the thyroid. I give them as they are stated by Cruveilhier, and confirmed by my own observation. The isthmus lies across the first four rings of the trachea, the first not being completely co- vered.* Its upper margin is about half an inch below the inferior border of the cricoid carti- lage : from it the mesian column passes up- ward, lying upon the crico-thyroid muscle, the thyroid cartilage, and the thyro-hyoid membrane. The lower border of the isthmus is free, and occasionally descends so low, that there is not space between it and the sternum to perform the operation of tracheotomy. Posteriorly, the isthmus is firmly attached to the rings of the trachea by close and dense areolar tissue. The sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles overlap the greater part of the isthmus ; a small portion, however, in the median line is covered only by deep cervical fascia, and perhaps crossed by some branches of origin or communication of the anterior jugular veins. The lateral lobes, concave posteriorly, embrace, and rest against the sides of, the trachea, the cricoid cartilage, the in- ferior and lateral parts of the thyroid car- tilage, and the lower part of the pharynx and upper part of the oesophagus. " These lobes form, with the connecting isthmus, a half or sometimes three fourths of a canal, which surrounds all these parts. This re- lation, one of great importance, explains how certain goitres flatten the trachea late- rally, hinder deglutition, and finally bring on a real asphyxia from strangulation."-)- The posterior border of the lateral lobes corre- sponds to the vertebral column, and rests upon the carotid artery; but, if enlarged, it extends further outward, and lies upon the jugular vein. Both recurrent nerves ascend behind the lateral lobes, and are closely in relation with them as they pass under the lower edge of the inferior constrictor muscle. Anteriorly, the sterno- and omo-hyoid muscles pass in front of the lateral lobes, the sterno- thyroid is stretched as a thin band over their surface, and in cases of considerable hyper- trophy may be seen sunk in a deep groove formed in their substance, or, as Cruveilhier states, expanded to a width double or treble its natural size. These muscles separate the thyroideal lobes from the sterno-cleido-mas- toid, which, with the mastoid artery and the superficialis descendens on its inner surface, overlaps their greater extent, as it passes backwards and upwards to its cranial attach- ment. " The superior extremity of each of * There is probably some variation in this, ac- cording to the varying depth of the isthmus, f Cruveilhier, Anat. Descr. the lateral lobes terminating in a point, whence the bicorned form which has been attributed to the thyroid body, corresponds on the inside of the carotid artery to the lateral and posterior part of the thyroid car- tilage, and extends sometimes even to the neighbourhood of its upper border. The inferior extremity, thick and rounded,descends more or less low in different subjects, and corresponds to the fifth, sixth, or even to the seventh ring of the trachea; it is situated between the trachea and the common carotid artery. By the inferior extremity the inferior thyroid artery reaches the gland." " The superior border is concave, and skirted by the superior thyroid arteries." The inferior is convex, and has branches of the inferior thyroid running along it. The thyroid gland is of a red or reddish yellow colour, of tolerably firm consistence, and gives to the touch the sensation of granulations. Cruveilhier, thus describing, proceeds as follows : " This organ presents all the anatomical characters of glands, and, like them, is separated by dissection into glandular grains" (doubtless meaning the acini of Malpighi) ; "but there is, be- tween these glandular grains and those of ordinary glands, this difference, that in the thyroid gland the glandular grains communi- cate with each other, while in the others they are independent." He then details the result of mercurial injection, to show that the glan- dular grains, or granulations, have a vesicular structure, and communicate with each other ; this latter statement, however, is certainlv erroneous, as we learn from more accurate modes of investigation. The presence of a certain amount of secreted fluid, in the natural condition of the tissue of the thyroid, and the accumulation of a similar material in larger quantities under certain morbid con- ditions, the eminent French anatomist justly regards as evidence of the thyroid possessing a secreting apparatus ; but, at the same time, faithful to the results of accurate dissection, he acknowledges that no excretory duct can be found leading either into the trachea, the ventricles of the larynx, or the foramen caecum of the tongue, whither earlier ob- servers had, with too nice refinement, sought to trace its course. Far truer and more phy- siological than such straining after uniformity is the conclusion he adopts: " I think that there exist, in the economy, glands without excretory ducts, such as the thymus, the supra- renal capsules, and the thyroid gland. The li- quid produced in the gland is absorbed entirely, and fulfils unknown uses." I have thought it worth while to follow this accurate and trust- worthy anatomist through his account of the structure of the thyroid, though it be some- what antiquated, partly for the sake of the confirmation it affords to the results of a more recondite and powerful analysis, and partly that we may observe how securely we may trust Nature's own teachings, even svhen they may appear, for a time, contradictory to established doctrines, as doubtless it must