TEETH 911 both jaws; the second premolar displaces the first normally developed deciduous molar; the third upper premolar displaces and suc- ceeds the deciduous sectorial, which has a sharper and more compressed blade, and a relatively smaller internal tubercle, than the permanent sectorial. This tooth displaces the last deciduous molar, which is a tubercular tooth, resembling in form the first of the two upper permanent tuberculars ; these coming into place without pushing out any prede- cessors, enter into the category of true molar teeth. In the lower jaw the third premolar displaces the deciduous sectorial, which has three trenchant lobes and a relatively smaller posterior talon than the permanent sectorial. The fourth premolar displaces the third or tubercular milk-molar. The permanent sectorial and tubercular molars displace no predecessors, and are therefore m. 1 and m. 2. The first premolar, 1, is net developed at any period in the Mangues (Crossarchus), the Suricates (Eyzcena), or the Mangusta ■paludinosa ; these Viverrines, therefore, retain throughout life more of the immature cha- racters of the family, and in the same degree approach in the numerical characters of their dentition to the more typical Carnivora. The alternate interlocking of the crowns of the teeth of the upper and lower jaws, which is their general relative position in the Carnivora, is well marked in regard to the premolars of the Fiverridee (fig. 580, IV.) : as the lower canine is in front of the upper, so the first lower premolar rises into the space between the upper canine and first upper premolar ; the fourth lower premolar in like manner fills the space between the third upper premolar (p. 3) and the sectorial tooth (p. 4), playing upon the anterior lobe of the blade of that tooth which indicates by its position, as by its mode of succession, that it is the fourth premolar of the upper jaw. The first true molar below, modified as usual in the Car- nivora to form the lower sectorial, sends the three tubercles of its anterior part to fill the space between the sectorial (p. 4) and the first true molar (m. 1) above. In the Mu- sangs the lower sectorial is in more direct opposition to its true homotype, the first tubercular molar in the upper jaw ; and these Indian Vivcrrida: (Paradoxur'i) are the least carnivorous of their family, their chief food consisting of the fruit of palm-trees, whence they have been called " Palm-cats." Hycena.— The dentition of this genus pre- sents a nearer approach to the strictly car- nivorous type by the reduction of the tuber- cular molars to a single minute tooth on each side of the upper jaw, the inferior molars being all conical or sectorial teeth : the molar teeth in both jaws are larger and stronger, and the canines smaller in proportion than in the Feline species, from the formula of which the dentition of the hyasna differs numerically only in the retention of an additional pre- molar tooth, p. 1 above and p. 2 below, on each side of both jaws. The dental formula of the genus Hycena is: — in. -—-, 1—1 4—4 1 — 1 °~ iZTf pvu 3H3' m- tztt : = 3*- Tllc crowns of the incisors form almost a straight tranverse line in both jaws, the exterior ones, above, being much larger than the four middle ones, and extending their long and thick inserted base further back: the crown of the upper and outer incisor (i. 3.) is strong, conical, recurved, like that of a small canine, with an anterior and posterior edge, and a slight ridge along the inner side of the base. The four intermediate small incisors have their crown divided by a trans- verse cleft into a strong anterior, conical lobe, and a posterior ridge, which is notched ver- tically; giving the crown the figure of a trefoil. The lower incisors gradually increase in size from the first to the third ; this and the second have the crown indented ex- ternally ; but they have not the posterior notched ridge like the small upper incisors ; the apex of their conical crown fits into the interspace of the three lobes of the incisor above. The canines have a smooth convex exterior surface, divided by an anterior and posterior edge from a less convex inner side: this surface is almost flat and of less relative- extent in the inferior canines. The first premolar above (p. 1) is very small, with a low, thick, conical crown : the second presents a sudden increase of size, and an addition of a posterior and internal basal ridge to the strong cone. The third premolar exhibits the same form on a still larger scale, and is remarkable for its great strength. The pos- terior part of the cone of each of these premolars is traversed by a longitudinal ridge. The fourth premolar is the carnassial tooth, and has its long blade divided by two notches into three lobes, the first a small thick cone, the second a long and compressed cone, the third a horizontal sinuous trenchant plate : a strong triedral tubercle is developed from the inner side of the base of the anterior part of the crown. The single true molar of the upper jaw (in. l) is a tubercular tooth of small size : transversely oblong in the Hycena vulgaris and H.fusca; smaller and sub-cir- cular in the Hycena crocuta ; still smaller and implanted by a single fang in the Hycena spelcca : in all the existing species of Hyaena it has two fangs. The first premolar of the lower jaw (p. 2) fits into the interspace between the first and second premolars above, and answers, therefore, to the second lower premolar in the Viverridce: it is accordingly much larger than the first (;;. 1) above; it has a ridge in the fore-part of its cone, and a broad basal talon behind. The second (p. 3) is the largest of the lower premolars, has an anterior and a posterior basal ridge, with a vertical ridge ascending upon the fore as well as the back part of the strong rounded cone : the third premolar (p. 4.) is proportion ably less in the Hycena crocuta than in the H. vulgaris: its posterior ridge is developed into a smuli cone; the last tooth (m. \) is the sectorial,