VENOUS SYSTEM. 1404 to a lobe of the lungs. There are consequently three venous trunks for the right lung, and two for the left. On the right side the branch from the middle lobe unites with that from the superior; and hence two pulmonary veins, one superior to the other, are usually found in the root of each lung, where on both sides they are placed below but on a plane anterior to the pulmonary artery and bronchial tube. In the substance of the lungs the relative po- sition of these parts is different, for there the branches of the veins are behind, whilst those of the artery are in front, the bronchus being interposed between both. The four pulmonary veins then perforate the pericardium, and after a short course enter the most posterior part of the left auricle, those of the left side opening very close to- gether, and not unfrequently by a common orifice. Within the pericardium these veins are in- vested by its serous membrane, but on their anterior surfaces only. In passing to their destination, the right pulmonary veins lie behind the right auricle of the heart. II. The Systemic Veins. The veins of this system will be described in the following order. a. The veins which form the vena cava superior, anil which are derived from the head, face, neck, thorax, and upper extremities. Amonst these the veins of the parieties of the thorax (azi/gos veins), and those of the spinal column (rachidian veins'), are remarkable as serving to connect the branches of the superior with those of the inferior vena cava. b. The veins which form the vena cava inferior, and which convey the blood from the lower extremities and from the pelvic and abdominal cavities. The portal veins are an adjunct to this system. c. The proper veins of the heart (cardiac veins), which arise in the substance of that organ, and open by a separate trunk into the right auricle. A. The Veins which form the Vena Cava Superior. These are constituted by the veins, 1. Of the head and face ; 2. Of the neck ; 3. Of the upper extremities ; 4 . Of the thorax. 1. Veins of the head and face. * — The super- ficial veins of the head and face unite to form three principal trunks, which are placed on the anterior, lateral, and posterior aspects of the cranium ; anterior/// is seen the Facial vein. — This vein originates in the * The veins of the head may be divided into two sets, those which ramify on its exterior and those which occupy its interior; the former will alone be noticed in tins place. The latter, which are repre- sented by the cerebral veins and sinuses of the dura mater, are described in Article Nervous Centres (Dr. Todd), Vol. III. 631. Intermediate to these two systems are the veins of the bones of the head (the diploic veins), which, by their inosculations with both, maintain a free communication between the superficial and deeper seated veins. For a de- scription of the diploic veins, see Art. Bone, Vol. I. p. 43G. frontal region from numerous interlacing branches, which usually give rise to one large vein on each side (frontal vein), which is joined by branches from the upper lid (palpe- bral) and root of the nose, and by the supra- orbital vein ; sometimes there is but one frontal vein placed in the mesial line, and dividing into two branches, which descend one on either side of the nose. The frontal vein continues its course in the sulcus along the inner margin of the orbit under the name of angular vein, accompanying the artery of the same name, and receives numerous brandies from the orbit, by which a close connexion is maintained between the circulation on the exterior of the cranium and that of the cere- brum itself. At the lower margin of the orbit the angular becomes the proper facial vein, which passes downwards and outwards in an almost direct course to the anterior edge of the insertion of the masseter muscle. The facial vein consequently has a much shorter extent than its corresponding artery., to the outer side of which it is invariably placed ; it passes beneath the zygomatic mus- cles, and lies on Steno's duct, just where the latter is about to penetrate between the fibres of the buccinator muscle. Thefaci.d vein receives the following branches. Veins from the alae nasi, the coronary, buccal, infra-orbital, and masseteric veins; and also several large communicating veins (deep facial or alveolar) from a venous plexus which is lodged in the pterygoid space. Having passed below the ramus of the jaw, the facial vein enters the digastric space, which it traverses from above downwards and back- wards, and lies beneath the platysma myoides and on the submaxillary gland (which con- sequently is interposed between the facial vein and artery) ; this vein next passes across the external carotid artery to terminate in the internal jugular vein, having been previously joined by a large branch of communication from the temporo-maxillary vein. In its course through the digastric space the facial vein receives (a), the ranine vein, which comes from the inferior surface of the tongue, passes backwards by the side of the fraenum, and accompanies the t^poglossal nerve, between the rn)lo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles; (b), the satellite vein of the gustatory nerve, which is derived from a plexus of superficial veins on the dorsum of the tongue, and com- municates freely with the preceding (Cruveil- hicr); (c), the submental vein, which arises in the sublingual gland ; and (d) several palatine veins which are derived from a venous plexus encircling the tonsil. In many instances the facial vein unites with the proper lingual veins, and thus forms a common trunk, which throws itself into the internal jugular ; into this common trunk the superior thyroid, pharyngeal, and temporo- maxillary veins, will in such a case be fre- quently found to open. On the lateral region of the head are placed the trunks of the temporal and internal max- illary veins.