901 TEETH. 3 M 3 spaces unoccupied by the contracted and divided pulp, and affords, by its periosteum, a surface for the adhesion of the cement or ossified capsule covering the completed part of the tooth. The matrix of certain teeth does not give rise during any period of their formation to the germ of a second tooth, destined to suc- ceed the first ; this, therefore, when com- pleted and worn down, is not replaced: all the true Cetacea are limited to this simple provision of teeth. In the Armadillos, Me- gatherioids, and Sloths, the want of gcrmi- native power, as it may be called, in the matrix is compensated by the persistence of the matrix, and by the uninterrupted growth of the teeth. In most other Mammalia, the matrix of the first developed tooth gives origin to the germ of a second tooth, which sometimes dis- places, sometimes takes its place by the side of, its predecessor and parent. All those teeth which are displaced by their progeny are called temporary, deciduous, or milk teeth ; the mode and direction in which they are displaced and succeeded,— viz., from above downwards in the upper, from below upwards in the lower, jaw ; in both jaws vertically—are the same as in the Crocodile; but the process is never repeated more than once in any mammiferous animal. A con- siderable proportion of the dental series is thus changed; the second, or permanent teeth, having a size and form as suitable to the jaws of the adult, as the displaced tem- porary teeth were adapted to those of the young, animal. The permanent teeth, which assume places not previously occupied by deciduous ones, are always the most poste- rior in their position, and generally the most complex in their form. The successors of the deciduous incisors and canines differ from them chiefly in size ; the successors of the deciduous molars may differ likewise in shape, in which case they have always less complex crowns than their predecessors.* The " bicuspids," in Human Anatomy, and the corresponding teeth, called " pre- molars," in the lower Mammals, illustrate this law. The first true molar owes the germ of its matrix to a vegetation or bud, separated by the fissiparous process from the matrix of the last deciduous tooth; but the backward elongation of the jaw affords space for its development by the side of its progenitor, during which process it may in like manner give origin to a second, and this to a third, molar, succeeding each other from before backwards or horizontally. In this successive germ-production, we find repeated the multiparous property of the dental matrix of the crocodile; but the * " C'est une regie generate, que les molaires de remplacement ont une couronne moins compliquee que celles auxquelles elles succedent; mais cette couronne compliquee se trouve reportee sur les mo- laires permanentes qui viennent plus en arriere." This generalisation was established by Cuvier, in his Lemons d'Anat. Comp., ed. 1805. vol. in. p. 135. concomitant growth of the jaw allows the second, third, and sometimes fourth genera- tion of true molars to co-exist, and come into place side by side. In the Ungniculate, and most of the Ungulate, species of the placental division of the Mammalian class, the fissiparous reproduction of horizontally succeeding teeth stops at the third genera- tion ; in other words, they have not more than three true molars on each side of the upper and lower jaws. In the Marsupial series, the same process extends to a fourth generation of true or horizontally succeeding molars*; and in most of the species, the four true molars are in use and place at the same time; but in certain Kangaroos, the anterior ones are shed before the posterior ones are developed. This successive de- cadence is still more characteristic of the grinding teeth of the Elephant, which are finally reduced to a single molar tooth on each side of both jaws. Thus the class Mammalia, in regard to the times of formation and the succession of the teeth, may be divided into two groups : — the " Hlonop/ii/odonts," f or those that generate a single set of teeth ; and the " Di- phyodonts" % or those that generate two sets of teeth. The Monophyodonts include the orders Monotremata, Brida {Edentata, Cuv.), and Cetacea (Cetacea vera, Cuv.) : all the rest of the order are Diphyodonts. In these, the first set of teeth are called the milk or de- ciduous teeth : the second set, the adult or permanent teeth ; although the teeth of this set are for the most part, like those of the first set, of limited growth, contracting to a root or roots, and being shed in greater or less proportion during the life-time of the species ; which life-time, in wild Carnivora and Herbivora, is dependent on, and would seem, indeed, to be determined by, the dura- tion of the adult teeth. The particulars of the Monophyodont dentition will be found under the Articles Monotremata, Vol. III. p. 387.; Cetacea, Vol. I. pp. 563. 571. 573.; (see my Odonto- graphy, p. 345. pis. 87—91.); and Eden- tata, Vol. II. p. 53.; (see also Odontography, p. 317. pis. 76—86.) Examples of some of the striking modifications of dental structure pre- sented by recent or extinct animals of the order Bruta, are given in Jigs. 548. and 574. of the present article. It will be observed that I have qualified the generalisation as regards the Monophyodont character of the Cetacea, by citing only that part of Cuvier's order which he termed " true or carnivorous Ce- tacea." The animals of the order Sirenia * This characteristic extension of the reproductive power of the matrices of the true molars in the Marsupials, is an approximation to the peculiar activity and persistence of the same power in the vertically succeeding teeth of the cold-blooded Ovi- para, and is associated with many other instances of the same affinity in more important parts of the organization of the implacental Mammals. f tJLmo;, once; tpCu, I generate; oiovs, tooth. j Slf, twice; <pv» and clovs-