1030 THORAX. ence to the spine. But the relation of these torsions to the spine are different: the pos- terior torsion is relative to the spine late- rally, while the anterior torbion relates to the spine more in the antero-posterior direc- tion: they both conspire to increase the obli- quity of the rib in one given direction,—from above downwards. The torsion of the 1st rib, we have noticed, is directed in a contrary direction to that of other ribs ; and we have observed that the presence of torsion in general favours muscular traction: but the 1st rib is an exception to this; here the torsion exists only between its two chief articulating pro- cesses, — the head and the tubercle : in the other ribs the torsion is between the tu- bercle and the body of the bone. The pos- terior torsion of the 1st rib appears to be merely destined to afford the head a more complete attachment to the body of the one vertebra (the 1st dorsal) to which that rib is fixed. A posterior torsion, in this short rib, is not needed for muscular traction, be- cause here the scaleni are placed in the most favourable position — nearly at an angle of 90° with reference to the body of the bone in question, while their other insertion into the cervical vertebra; facilitates the most ex- tensive and favourable means for its mobility, independently of any favouring twist in the rib for that purpose. (4) Surfaces (special differences). — The thorax being conical, or somewhat barrel- shaped, it follows that the surfaces of the ribs, like the hoops of a very spherical barrel, must gradually change their direc- tion ; thus the surfaces of the 1st rib are nearly superior and inferior, this bone forming the lid to the thorax, while the surfaces of the 6th or 7th rib are external and internal, and as we proceed downwards to the 10th, 11th, and 12th ribs, the surfaces are again slightly tending towards a superior and inferior po- sition, so that the internal surfaces of the 1st and 12th ribs are directed somewhat towards each other. The body of the rib, or that part which covers the lung laterally, and the anterior and posterior extremities, have also their surfaces inclined in different directions. Thus, take a perfect rib, say the 7th, laterally to the thorax the two surfaces are internal and external, while at the anterior end they are directed — external surface, forwards and downwards ; internal surface, upwards and backwards ; — at the posterior end, — external surface, upwards and backwards; internal surface, downwards and forwards. This is produced by their respective torsions. In some of the lower animals the ribs overlap each other like the tiles of a house; this sometimes threatens in man, particularly in diseases of the spine (Jig. 666.), when they closely approach each other. (5) Specific differences of the extremities of the ribs. — The greatest difference is in the posterior end of the rib. The anterior pre- senting little difference. (a) Anterior extremity.— These are all hol- lowed out for their cartilage. As the ribs become more perfectly developed, for in- stance, the 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th, the an- terior extremity is broader, but not more deeply hollowed out than some of the other ribs, which are less perfectly developed, as in the 2nd and 3rd, or 11th ribs. This extremity is most pointed in the 12th rib. Fig. 666. Relation of the ribs to the spine in angular curvature. (b) Posterior extremity. — The posterior ex- tremity of the rib is more complicated, and has certain named parts, as the head, neck, tubercle, and angle, all of which become modi- fied as we pass from above downwards. Their differences may briefly be noticed. 1st Of the head.— On the head of the rib, articulating with the vertebrae, a surface or facet is formed. The 1st, the 11th, and the 12th ribs articulate each with the body of one vertebra, and therefore they have one arti- culating surface. All the rest articulate each with the bodies of two vertebra;, and they consequently have two such articulating sur- faces as already described. The head of the 1st rib is relatively larger than that of the others. For the most part, as the ribs in- crease in size, the head likewise increases, so that in the best developed rib the head and its surfaces are most perfectly formed, dege- nerating again to the 12th rib. 2nd Of the neck. — The neck being that part of the rib between the articulation of the rib with the bodies of the vertebra, and that with the transverse process, and these points differing but little in their distance from each other in the dorsal vertebra;, it follows that the absolute length of the neck of the different ribs is nearly the same. The necks of the ribs differ in their thickness, ac- cordingly as their respective ribs increase or diminish in size ; therefore, in the middle