URINE 1270 is now precipitated with acetate of baryta> in these re-agcnts is of a dirty yellowish red order to rid it of sulphuric acid. The sulphate colour.* of baryta is collected on a filter, and the Colouring matters. — These are two in num- filtered liquor neutralised with ammonia, and ber, Hsemaphaein or the brown; and Uroery- then again thrown down with the acetate, thrin, or the red. which now causes a precipitate of phosphate a. Hcemaphcein.—This is the substance whicli of baryta.* This is to be collected, and the gives the yellow or brownish yellow tint to filtered liquor evaporated in order to drive urine, and according to its proportion the off the ammonia ; or, what is better, it may be urine assumes a lighter or deeper colour. Ac- neutralised by acetic acid. Neutral acetate of cording to Scharling, the odour also of the lead is now added to the solution, which urine depends on this principle. It is soluble causes a copious precipitate. This must in alcohol, and the alcoholic solution reddens be collected and washed, and then decom- litmus. The odour, when concentrated, is posed by sulphuretted hydrogen, which pre- said to resemble that of castor. Scharling be- cipitates sulphuret of lead, and leaves the lieves this colouring matter to be an oxide animal extractive in solution. This may be of a radical, to which he has given the name obtained by evaporation. This extractive is, of omiclimyle. however, but part of that meant to be under- /3. Uroeryihrin. — This exists but in very stood as the "animal extractive soluble in minute quantity in healthy urine; it attaches water only," so often mentioned in analyses, itself especially to the lit hie acid, being pre- The remainder of it may be procured by pre- cipitated with that principle on all occasions, cipitating the liquor (in which the precipitate It becomes abundant in some forms of disease, by neutral acetate of lead subsides), by means Mucus. — For the history of this substance of the di-acetate of lead ; then collecting the see article Mucus. precipitate, decomposing it as before by sul- Uric or lithic acid. — This acid may be pro- phuretted hydrogen, and procuring the ex- cured from the urine by the addition of a few tractive from the clear liquor. It must be re- drops of strong hydrochloric acid, which, after niembered that each of these extractives has the lapse of some hours, produces a reddish peculiar properties, perhaps dependent on the crystalline precipitate of lithic acid. This red processes used to obtain them. There is colour is caused by an admixture of colouring also a portion of animal extractive left unpre- matter of urine, for pure lithic acid is per- cipitated by the di-acetate of lead. It is fectly white. It may be obtained in a pure easily obtained from the liquor by ridding the state from the red crystals by being dissolved solution of any lead which may exist in it by in caustic potash, and then precipitated from means of sulphuretted hydrogen, filtering, and its solution by the addition of hydrochloric then evaporating to dryness. acid. The precipitate may now be collected, It is a mixture of these three peculiar ex- and washed on a filter, tractives which constitutes the "animal ex- Lithic acid possesses the following chemical tractive soluble in water only " of Berzelius. properties : — The properties of the extractive matter pre- It is insoluble in water, cipitated by the neutral acetate of lead are It is easily soluble in a solution of caustic as follows :—■ alkali, and precipitated from such solution by It is of a brownish colour, translucid, and the addition of an acid, does not deliquesce; has no taste, and scarcely It is dissolved by nitric acid with efferves- aff'ects litmus paper. cence; and, by careful evaporation to dry- Its solution is rendered cloudy by corrosive ness, yields a red or rather pink colour, which sublimate, and more so by the protochloride becomes of a fine violet tint when ammonia of tin. is dropped on it, or even when it is subjected The extractive precipitabTe by the di-ace- to the action of strong ammoniacal fumes, tate of lead has the following properties:— This reaction of ammonia is very useful, in- It is of a yellowish brown colour; it has a asmuch as it prevents the yellow stain which slightly bitter taste, and does not deliquesce. many animal matters produce with nitric acid The watery solution of this extract is of a from being mistaken for this reaction of lithic deep yellow colour. acid. In the former case, the ammonia in- It is not precipitable by the solution of bi- creases the yellow tinge to an orange colour, chloride of mercury ; but the protochloride of which is very distinct from the beautiful violet tin, the di-acetate of lead, and nitrate of silver tint of what is now known as murexid. precipitate it of a dark brown colour. Before the blowpipe, this substance emits a The third extractive, which was precipitated fetid smell of burnt horn, mixed with an odour neither by the acetate nor di-acetate of lead, approaching to that of hydrocyanic acid, possesses the following characters:— The ultimate analysis of lithic acid shows It is of a yellow colour. Solutions of bi- its composition to be C 5, N 2, H 2, ()3. chloride of mercury, protochloride of tin, and Hippuric acid. — This acid is considered by nitrate of silver precipitate its aqueous solu- Liebig to be constantly present in human tion. The precipitate produced by the last of urine. * Both these precipitates produced by acetate of baryta contain animal matter, which, in the latter case, is in very considerable proportion. . * For further examination of these extractive matters, see the article by Berzelius, in his Traite de Chimie, vol. vii. p. 380.; Sur les Matieres hide'- terminces dans I'Urine.