VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1300 species being defined by the preservation of its characters through successive genera- tions and under all circumstances ; the only exception to this general statement, being in the case of the domestic cat, which, like the dog, passes into numerous varieties, none of which, however, show an approximation to the characters of any other species. Hence, notwithstanding the extent of variation pre- sented among dogs, the characters of the breeds do not bear a specific value; for an amount of variation may be seen among the successive generations of the same breed, how- ever pure it may be kept, or even among the offspring of the same litter, quite sufficient to show that a strong capacity for modification exists in this species. It would not be diffi- cult, moreover, to bring together a series of individuals, that should connect the most ex- treme forms by imperceptible gradations ; all the different races breed together with the most complete freedom ; and, as already re- marked, there is a continual tendency amongst them, if they escape from the influence of man, and intermingle unrestrainedly in a state approaching to their original wildness, to a return to one uniform type of configuration and of hue. Further, whatever their other differences in psychical character, we find that they all agree in that tendency to association with man, which is pretty obviously the chief source of those diversities ; the most impor- tant departures from the natural habits of a wild race, being those which have been im- pressed upon the several breeds by a long course of training, whose influence has been transmitted, to a certain extent, from one generation to another. We have seen that, in particular races of dogs existing in a half wild state, the force of circumstances, without any human intervention, has developed a new instinct, which has become hereditary within a few generations; and there can be no diffi- culty in understanding, therefore, that the psychical as well as the physical characters of the dog may have undergone a far more marked alteration, in the prolonged period during which he has been under the influence of man. However considerable, then, are the anatomical and psychological differences of the most diverse breeds, these are perpetuated only by the agency of man, and tend to merge themselves in a common type as soon as this is withdrawn ; and through all these changes, the pl/i/siological conformity, as marked especially by the generative function, is constantly preserved. And thus it may be unhesitatingly asserted, that there is no such clear and well-marked' natural distinction be- tween the several breeds of dogs, as can serve to justify the assignment of a separate parent- age to any of them. The question next arises, whether the dog is a domesticated form of any other species of the genus Canis, e. g. the wolf* the fox, or the jackal; or whether it is descended from an original wild stock, which has sub- sequently become extinct. Now the fox may be at once excluded, as differing in the vertical elongation of the pupil, the peculiar bushiness of the tail, and in other charac- ters. The affinity of the dog to the jackal is certainly not so close as that which it bears to the wolf; and there are many dis- tinguished naturalists who regard the latter as its original. In support of this view, the following considerations may be urged. No specific character has yet been framed so as to be equally applicable to all the breeds of dogs, which does not include the wolf also ; and it does not seem likely that any valid specific distinction can be established upon anatomical grounds only. The various races of wild dogs, in proportion to their entire emancipa- tion from the influence of man, exhibit more and more of the lank and gaunt form, the lengthened limbs, the long and slender muzzle, anil the great comparative strength, which cha- racterise the wolf; and in the dingo of Aus- tralia, which presents these peculiarities in the most marked degree, and which may be con- sidered as the most remote from a state of do- mestication, the tail assumes the slightly bushy form of that of the wolf. In no point of its osteology does the wolf differ more from dogs in general, than they differ from each other; and the interval, in fact, is much less between the wolf and the races of dogs just alluded to, than it is between these and the races which most strongly exhibit the influ- ence of domestication. Further, the wolf and the dog readily breed together, and their progeny is fertile with either of the parent races ; but whether the hybrids thus produced are fertile with each other, and a new race can be thus established, has not yet been ascertained. The term of utero-gestation is the same for the wolf as for the dog, viz. sixty-three days; that of the jackal, on the other hand, is but fifty-nine. It is a remark- able fact, that the habit of barking is pe- culiar to dogs which have been accustomed to intimate association with Man ; and, like variety of colour, it is soon induced in the progeny of those to whom it is not natural, when these are reared in a state of domes- tication. Thus, the puppies of the Esqui- maux dogs brought home by our Arctic ex- plorers, being accustomed to the sound of the human voice from the earliest period, learn to bark, whilst their parents remain confined to their original sounds. The principal objection to the idea of the specific identity of the two races, lies in their difference of psychical character; the wolf being apparently altogether destitute of that disposition to attach itself to man, and of that capacity of modification under his in- fluence, which is so marked a feature in the nature of the dog. It has been asserted that the wolf is so untameably savage, that it would require ages of domestication to render it even moderately tractable, if, indeed it could ever be brought under subjection. Such an assertion, however, does not seem borne out by facts. Mr. T. Bell* relates an * British Quadrupeds, p. 199.