1463 VISION. It is commonly supposed that a certain visible conformation of the eye exists in con- nection with, and characterises myopia ; that the eye is full, the cornea prominent, the an- terior chamber large, &c.: but this is by no means necessarily the case; for it may happen that of two individuals in whom the apparent configuration of the eyes is the same, one will be myopic, the other presbyopic. It is also a popular belief that near-sight decreases with age ; such does not accord with our experi- ence. We have repeatedly seen persons above sixty years of age as near-sighted as in their youth, and are acquainted with a lady of eighty-five, who has certainly never fatigued her eyes with work or reading, and who still uses, and has used for many years, a No. 7. myopic glass. Myopia may arise from imperfection in the form, consistence, or relation of some of the refractive media ; or it may result from the loss of adjusting power. The first description may be induced by too great convexity either of the cornea or lens, or both ; by an undue density of any of the refractive media ; by a too great distance between the cornea and retina, &c. The effect is always the same, namely, to cause the rays of light to be so much refracted that, in place of being concen- trated to a focus exactly on the retina—a point essential to distinct vision—they are brought to a focus before reaching it. It is a law in optics that the nearer an object is brought to the eye, the more divergent are the rays proceeding from it, and consequently the greater the distance at which they will be collected in a focus by refractive media. For this reason it is that near-sighted persons habitually hold objects very close to their eyes, as by that means the image is thrown back upon the retina. One of the causes of imperfect vision in such persons, is the circle of dissipation formed on the retina by the rays after they have crossed at the focal point. This is principally produced by the circum- ferential rays; and if these can be excluded, vision is rendered much more distinct. Thus it is that great assistance is afforded by look- ing through a pin-hole in a card, and even by holding to the eye a hollow roll of paper, or the hand partially closed. The habit of half shutting the lids which has given the name to the affection, has reference to the same object — the exclusion of the circum- ferential rays. In connection with this point, we may mention that the reason stars are seen earlier in the evening twilight with the assist- ance of tubes than without, is, as pointed out by Arago, that the tube cuts off a large portion of the disturbing diffused light of the atmospheric strata which intervene between the star and the eye. In like manner a tube is useful even in a dark night in preventing the lateral impression of the faint light which the particles of air re- ceive from all the other stars in the sky, and thereby increases the intensity of the lumi- nous image and the apparent size of the star. Distant objects appear large to near-sighted persons, because a distinct picture is formed only at the point of intersection of the rays proceeding from an object ; as this point falls short of the retina in such persons, the retina receives the rays beyond the point of intersection, and they are consequently more extended. Myopes also read with more ease in partial darkness than those whose sight is perfect. The quantity of vays from an object is always in an inverse ratio to the square of the distance; and as these persons naturally bring the object close to the eye, they receive the f ull benefit of all the light proceeding from it; whereas other persons are obliged under similar circumstances to close the lids and contract the pupils to see distinctly, whereby much less light enters their eyes than those of myopic individuals ; hence they see with greater effort and less distinctness. In congenital myopia the pupils are fre- quently large, and do not contract fully. To compensate for this the persons acquire the habit of knitting the brows and half closing the lids, which gives them a characteristic appearance. The handwriting of near-sighted persons is generally small and cramped, the proximity of the letters to the eyes increasng the visual angle subtended by them, thus increasing their apparent size. Among the exciting causes of acquired myopia are, overwork of the eyes at the focus for near objects, the indiscreet use of glasses, and the necessity of working in obscure light. The first and last may be c'assed together, and apply especially to engravers, watch- makers, jewellers, and other artificers, the nature of whose work requires close inspec- tion. But there is yet another class espe- cially subject to this impairment of vision, namely, literary men. The public are little aware of the extent to which the studious and those who live by the exercise of their intel- lect, suffer from imperfection of sight. Many instances have fallen under our notice of poor students and writers, whose poverty compelled them to pursue their literary avocations in the gloom of dusky apartments, or by the aid of a dim candle, and who have become myopic and amblyopic in consequence. And scarcely less numerous are those who are visited with this affliction though pursuing their la- bours under more favourable circumstances. It would appear that even the study of oph- thalmic science may cause the same penalty to be paid; for M. Desmarres informs us that one of his pupils became very myopic by exerting his eyes too much in the diagnosis of diseases of the eye ; a sad result of most rare industry. A common cause of myopia is the improper use of eye glasses. In this country they are often worn from affectation ; but in France glasses are used by the young men who wish to escape the conscription, for the deliberate purpose of rendering themselves near-sighted, that constituting a ground for exemption During the years 1831, 1832, and 1833, 7\3 per 1000 of the conscripts examined in