TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). 1002 supported, appears to be highly favourable to the occurrence of hernia and the extension of the sac, by dragging down the peritoneum. Oscheo-hydrocele is not an uncommon complication. In most of the cases which I have met with, the hydrocele was placed be- low and free of the rupture, and in a few only in front of it. I have never found the hernial sac covering the fore part of a hydrocele. The ordinary relations of hydrocele and scro- tal hernia may be seen in the accompanying woodcut. In figure 638., the sac of an in- guinal hernia is represented at some little distance above a small hydrocele. Dupuytren states that, when a hydrocele is placed in front of a hernia, a part of the omentum or intestine sometimes descends into a cyst, which projects into the hydrocele, and is formed of the hernial sac and serous fold of the tunic of the testicle.* This complica- tion is of the nature of the hernia infantilis, described by Mr. Key, and called by Sir A. Cooper encysted hernia of the tunica vaginalis. Hematocele. — This is a term applied to the swelling occasioned by effusion of blood in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, or in a cyst connected with the testicle; it is also applied to tumours produced by extravasation, either in the sub- stance of the spermatic cord, or in the sac of an encysted hydrocele of this part. Hcema- tocele of the testicle, in which blood is effused into the tunica vaginalis, is by far the most common form of this affection. The extra- vasation may take place in a healthy state of the parts, or it may succeed, or be combined with hydrocele. The first variety occurs from the accidental rupture of some blood-vessel, probably one of the vessels ramifying between the tunica albuginea and tunica vaginalis testis, owing either to a blow or a violent straining effort. The second variety, in which the extravasation takes place in combination with hydrocele, is of more frequent occur- rence than the first. It may also be produced by a blow, or by the wound of some vessel, in the operation of tapping. A blow occa- sions a slight rupture of the tunica vaginalis, and of some of the enlarged vessels ramifying outside it, and the blood which escapes passes into the sac and mixes with the fluid of the hydrocele, producing a sudden increase in the size of the tumour. The liability to this ac- cidental effusion of blood is increased by a diseased condition of the arteries, such as is commonly met with in old people. The quan- tity of blood effused under these circum- stances varies considerably. It may be merely sufficient to impart a red tinge to the serum. In general, however, it is greater in amount, and coagula are formed, which remain undis- solved in the fluid. A haematocele may be produced in the operation of tapping a hydro- cele, in two ways. It may be occasioned by the accidental wound of some vessel rami- fying over the tunica vaginals, which, instead of bleeding externally, or into the areolar tissue of the scrotum, pours its blood into * Lefons Orales. Brussels edit. t. iv. p. 233. the sac of the hydrocele ; or it may be caused by the trocar or lancet penetrating too far, and wounding the testicle or spermatic artery. In hematoceles which have existed for a long period, the blood becomes changed into a substance resembling coffee grounds, of a brownish-red, or chocolate colour, and more or less fluid. The coagula sometimes present a cellular or honeycomb appearance, the cells being filled with a reddish serum. Occasion- ally the blood is found converted into a solid fibrinous substance, of a yellow or fawn colour, arranged in firm layers, similar to the coagula lining the sac of an aneurism. In many in- stances the effused blood is felt as a foreign body, and produces inflammation in the tunica vaginalis, which becomes coated with lymph, and this mixing with blood and serum modi- fies the appearance of the contents of the cyst, rendering it turbid and of a lighter colour. Sometimes the inflammation goes on to suppuration, in which case pus is also found in the sac. The inflammation usually extends from the tunica vaginalis to the areolar tissue and fascia external to the sac, which in recent cases are found infiltrated with serum and lymph, and in cases of old standing be- come greatly thickened, indurated, and com- pacted. In a case of haematocele, occasioned by the wound of a vessel in tapping a hydro- cele in which I was consulted, the inflamma- tion which ensued caused, in the course of a fortnight, great thickening of the tissues ex- ternal to the sac, and the formation of an abscess in the scrotum on one side of the hematocele. I have found the tunica vagin- alis and tissues investing it as much as half an inch in thickness, and very firm and dense. These changes in the sac are produced by a more chronic form of inflammation of the fascia and areolar tissue investing the sac. In these old cases, the internal surface of the tunica vaginalis instead of presenting its na« tural smooth and polished surface, is rough, granular, and irregular, and feels as dense and tough as a piece of leather, having lost all the characters of a serous membrane. In haematocele, the testicle preserves the same relation to the remainder of the tumour as in simple hydrocele, being situated at the posterior part, and rather below the centre. Its position, however, is liable to similar al- terations as occur in hydrocele, and they are dependent upon the same causes. A young man had a hydrocele, which had succeeded to an attack of secondary orchitis, occasioning an adhesion of the gland to the front of the sac at its lower part. The case became con- verted into a hematocele by the wound of a vessel in the operation of tapping. Inflam- mation ensued, and it became necessary to lay open the sac. The surgeon, in carrying the incision to the lower part of the tunica va- ginalis, divided the vas deferens and severed the sound testicle nearly in two with his bis- toury, the thickening around the sac having prevented him from detecting the gland in its unusual situation. In hematocele, the