TEETH. 896 Fig. 572. Teeth in different stages of formation from one alveolus of the Gavial: a is the base partly absorbed by the pressure of b, the suecessional tooth ; below which is figured c, the germ of the next tooth to follow. Amongst the remains of Crocodilians which are scattered through the Tilgate strata, the most common ones are detached teeth, from the difference observable in the form of which, Dr. Mantell has observed, that " they appear referable to two kinds, the one belonging to that division of crocodiles with long slender muzzles, named Gavial, the other to a species of Crocodile, properly so-called, and resembling a fossil species found at Caen."* Dr. Mantell has obligingly communicated to me figures of well-preserved specimens of both the forms of teeth alluded to, the exact- ness of which I have recognised by a com- parison with the specimens themselves in the British Museum. The tooth which, from its more slender and acuminated form, approaches nearest to the character of those of the Gavial, presents a marked difference, however, from the teeth of any of the recent species of that sub-genus of Crocodilians, as well as from those of the long and slender-snouted extinct genera, called Teleosaurus, Steneosaurus, &c. I have described itf, therefore, as indicative of a distinct species, under the name of Crocodilus cultridens. The crown is laterally compressed, subincurved, with two opposite trenchant edges, one forming the concave, the other the convex, outline of the tooth. In the Gavial, the direction of the flattening of the crown and the situation of the trenchant edges are the reverse, the compression being from be- fore backwards, and the edges being lateral.J * Wonders of Geology, 1839, vol. i. p. 386. + Odontography, pi. lxii. A, figs. 9, 10. } The tooth attributed by M. Deslongehanips to the Poihilopleuron, agrees in form with those of The tooth of the Crocodilus cultridens thus re- sembles in form that of the Megalosaur, and perhaps still more those of the Argenton crocodile; but I have not observed any spe- cimens of the Wealden teeth in which the edges of the crown were serrated, as in both the reptiles just cited. The teeth of the Cro- codilus cultridens also present a character which does not exist in the teeth of the Megalosaur, and is not attributed by Cu- vier to those of the Crocodile a"Argenton. The sides of the crown are traversed by a few longitudinal parallel ridges, with regular intervals of about one line, in a crown of a tooth one inch and a half in length: these ridges subside before they reach the apex of the tooth, and more rapidly at the convex than at the concave side of the crown. Hitherto these teeth have not been found so associated with any part of the skeleton of the same species as to yield further cha- racters of the present extinct Crocodilian ; but from the above-mentioned well-marked differences between these teeth and those of all the existing species, it is most probable that the extinct crocodile formed the type of a distinct sub-genus, for which the term Su- chosaurus has been proposed. The second form of tooth having the gene- ric characters of those of the crocodile, which has been discovered in the Wealden and approximate strata, is as remarkable for its thick, rounded, and obtuse crown as the teeth of the preceding species are for their slender, compressed, acute, and trenchant character. It consequently approaches more nearly to the teeth which characterise the broad and comparatively short-snouted crocodiles; but it differs from these in one of the same cha- racters by which the tooth of the Suchosaurus cultridens differs from those of the Gavials, viz., in the longitudinal ridges which traverse the exterior of the crown. These are, how- ever, more numerous, more close-set, and more neatly defined than in the Suchosaurus cultridens. Two of the ridges, larger and sharper than the rest, traverse opposite sides of the tooth, from the base to the apex of the crown ; they are placed, as in the crocodile and Gavial, at the sides of the crown, midway between the convex and concave lines of the curvature of the tooth. These ridges are confined to the enamel ; the cement-covered cylindrical base of the tooth is smooth. The size of the teeth varies from a length of crown of two inches, with a basal diameter of one inch and a half to teeth of one-third of these dimensions. I have proposed to call this extinct crocodile, with biconcave vertebra;, Goniopholis crassidens. Development. — In the black alligator of Guiana the first fourteen teeth of the lower jaw are implanted in distinct sockets, the remaining posterior teeth are lodged close together in a continuous groove, in which the divisions for sockets are faintly indicated by vertical ridges, as in the jaws of the Ichthyo- the Gavial, and differs in the characters cited in the text from those of the Crocodilus cultridens.