11 13 THYROID GLAND. the absorbent glands, which doubtless produce some change in the fluid which traverses them ; this, however, must necessarily be a rapid process, and, accordingly, scarce any cells are formed; the mass of the glandular paren- chyma consisting of very perfect nuclei; (2), the terminal hepatic ducts, whose walls, as I have shown, consist almost entirely of nuclei set close together, and which, by means of these effective agents, eliminate the actual biliary secretion from the varying, partly biliary, partly oily, fluid formed by the hepatic cells on their exterior ; this process of elimi- nation is, I believe, continually going on, and is not so much of a metabolic as of an ab- sorbing nature; the essential change being probably effected by the hepatic ceils of the Lobules; (3) the nucleated tissue forming the principal part of the villi, which scarce ever devclopes cells,* but is constantly attracting the chylous fluid through the basement mem- brane from the cavity of the gut, and permit- ting it to pass off" by the efferent lacteals (here scarce any chemical change appears to take place) ; (4) the cineritious matter of the cerebral hemispheres, which, amid the rapid alternationsof sensation, thought, and volition, must be undergoing incessant change, consists, in by far the greater part, of nuclei and granular matter, the fully formed vesicles being few and far between. Applying, now, these views to the case of the thyroid, there seems reason to believe that the ordinary condition of its epithelium is such as to adapt it for rapid and transitory action ; so that a large amount of secretion may be quickly thrown into its cavities on any sudden occasion ; which again would easily transude through the thin epithelial layer and homo- geneous tunic, when the time of action had passed by. It may also be remarked, as consonant with the views above stated, that as respects its chemical nature the secretion of the thy- roideal cavities is of a simple kind, not appa- rently requiring much elaboration. It seems, in fact, to be a mere modification of albuminous matter containing, it may be, some gelatine, but strongly contrasting with the highly wrought products of the renal and hepatic laboratories. This implies that the change effected by the thyroideal epithelium on the liquor sanguinis supplied to it is by no means considerable. Use. — Cruveilhier, writing about fifteen years ago, briefly says, " the use of the secre- tion of the thyroid is unknown ; " nor can the anatomist of the present day give a much more satisfactory account. So en- veloped in mystery the use of the gland seems to have been always regarded, that inquirers have been more willing simply to confess their ignorance than is usually the case, and fewer speculations and hypotheses have been broached respecting this than regarding other points which promised at first sight to be of easier solution. It is scarcely worth while * I venture herein to differ from Professor Good- sir, not without repeated aud careful observations. to mention the opinion, which supposes the thyroid to have any essential connexion with the larynx, either as pouring into it, through supposed ducts, a fluid fitted to lubricate the lining membrane, or, as Sir A. Carlisle sup- posed, forming a protection to the delicate organs of the voice, against the variations in temperature of the external air. There seems no doubt that the relative position of the thyroid to the larynx is quite unimportant, so far as the function of the organ is con- cerned. This is borne out by the variations of its site which occur in birds, and by the results of morbid action ; since prodigious goitre does not induce disease of the larynx, except in a mechanical way, i.e. by injurious pressure. Passing over more crude conceptions, we come to consider a theory which has been propounded by Mr. Simon, and which has certainly every claim to our careful attention, both from the character of its author, and as it is the only one yet promulgated which can be said to be even probable. He considers that the thyroid acts as a diverticulum to the cerebral circulation ; exercising, at the same time, its secretory function in an alternating manner with the encephalic nervous mass. His words are, " What diversion is to the stream of blood viewed quantitatively, alter- native secretion would be to the composition of blood viewed qualitatively ; and I should conceive that the use of the thyroid gland, in its highest development, may depend on the joint exercise of these two analogous func- tions. I should suspect not only that the thyroid receives, under certain circumstances, a large share of the blood which would other- wise have supplied the brain, but also that the secretion of the former organ bears some essential relation (which chemistry may here- after elucidate) to the specific nutrition of the latter ; that the gland,—whether or not it appropriates its elements in the same proxi- mate combination as the brain does,—may, at all events, affect, in a precisely similar degree, the chemical constitution of the blood tra- versing it ; so that the respective contents of the thyroid and cerebral veins would present exactly similar alterations from the characters of aortic blood. Finally, I should suppose that these actions occur only, or chiefly, during the quiescence of the brain, and that when this organ resumes its activity the thyroid may probably render up again from its vesicles to the blood, in a still applicable form, those materials which it had previously diverted from their destination.'' This theory mainly rests on the circum- stance that the thyroideal arteries arise in close proximity to the cerebral, and this is I think sufficiently constantly the case to form a strong argument in its favour. It must be remembered, however, that variations in the place of origin of the arteries both of the brain and thyroid, do occur without, as far as we know, any interference with the full discharge of the functions of the gland ; and it may also be considered probable that the purpose of a diverticular stream would have been better