VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1313 pressed any doubt of the specific unity of all the domesticated breeds, or of their identity of origin with the so called " wild horses " of Northern Asia: which are probably descended from domesticated progenitors. Yet their diversities in stature, conformation, &c. are very considerable. Thus the ordinary height of the Shetland pony is from eight to ten hands ; and individuals have been occasionally seen which were no more than seven. On the other hand, the draught horse commonly stands from sixteen to seventeen hands ; aifd not unfrequently surpasses this height. In regard to the conformation of the skull, again, it has been remarked by Blumenbach, that there is more difference between the elon- gated head of the Neapolitan horse and the skull of the Hungarian breed, which last is re- markable for its shortness and the breadth of the lower jaw, than there is between the most dissimilar human crania. The differences in general constitution, also, as regards the power of sustained effort on the one hand, or of intense exertion for a short period on the other, are no less remarkable. But the breeds which are furthest removed from each other in these particulars are connected by such a gradual series of transitional forms, that there is no possibility of drawing a line between them ; and, like the various races of dogs, sheep, &c, they freely inter- mingle with each other, and produce offspring which are as fertile with their own kind, as with either of the parent stocks. It has been, in fact, by such intermixture of the large and powerful races of Northern Asia with the lighter and more agile horses of Arabia and Barbary, that many of the Euro- pean breeds have been obtained. The wild horses which at present range over the plains of Tartary differ from the domesticated races in several particulars ; thus, as we are in- formed by Pallas, the cranium is relatively larger and more vaulted, the limbs are stronger, the back is less arched ; their hoofs are smaller and more pointed; their ears are longer and bent more forward. Their habits, moreover, are peculiar; for they asso- ciate together in herds or troops to the number of several thousands, spreading abroad to feed, but congregating together on the appearance of danger, and seemingly putting themselves under the direction of a leader; on the approach of an enemy they close into a dense crowd, and, attacking the intruder, trample him to death; or, like many other gregarious animals, the females, the young, and the weak being placed in the rear, the stronger individuals array themselves in front, and fight most vigorously with their heels. Now these peculiarities of structure and habit are not only seen in the wild horses of Northern Asia, but also in those which have spread themselves over the extensive plains of South America, since their introduction into that continent by the Spaniards ; and it is nearly certain that the former, like the latter, are the descendants of a domesticated stock, whose return to something like the VOL. IV. original condition of the species, has repro- duced (at least in some degree) the original instincts, which had been entirely subdued for a time by the influence of domestication. In the horse, as in the dog, we have evidence that the habits which are developed by human training may become, to a certain extent, hereditary. Thus, it is observed that the wild horse has no pace but the walk and the gallop; the trot, to which European horses are usually trained, is an acquired habit, yet it obviously " comes naturally " to the colt of a domesticated breed ; and, in like manner, the peculiar pace to which the South Ame- rican horses are trained (which is a kind of running amble, the two legs of the same side being moved forwards together) is used with- out any instruction by the offspring of those by whom it has been acquired. Another ex- ample of the transmission of acquired pro- pensities in horses is mentioned by Mr. Knight: the Norwegian ponies have been taught to obey the voice of their riders rather than the bridle ; and the English horse-breakers com- plain that it is impossible to produce the latter habit in the offspring of this race placed under their tuition, notwithstanding that they are exceedingly docile and obedient when they understand the commands of their master, as imparted by word of mouth. It is equally difficult, he adds, to keep them within hedges, owing, perhaps, to the unrestrained liberty to which the race may have been accustomed in Norway. From the present condition and past his- tory of the domesticated races of Mammalia, of which a general survey has thus been taken, some important inferences may be drawn, which it may be advisable to put in the shape of formal propositions ; since in this manner we shall be able to define our terms more strictly, and to use these definitions as the foundation for our future investigations into the relationship of the several branches of the Human family. 1. Races of living beings are, properly, successions of individuals propagated from any given stock ; and the term implies no more than the fact of the transmission of a distinctive character by descent. 2. Two races, distinguished by well-marked peculiarities, may rank either as distinct spe- cies, or as varieties of the same species ; being supposed, in the first case, to be descended from parents which themselves originally ex- hibited the same peculiarities ; and being considered, in the second, as the descendants of an identical, or, at any rate, of a similar, parentage. 3. The question of unity or diversity of species, between two races, cannot be decided by the degree of difference w hich exists be- tween them ; for the answer to it entirely depends upon the constancy with which the peculiarity (of whatever nature it may be) is transmitted from parent to offspring, and upon the amount of variation which is exhibited even within the acknowledged limits of the i p