1375 VEIN. ciilar tunic is less distinct, thinner than the areolar, with which it is more or less mixed up, and the latter is more abundant and more developed than in small arteries. In passing to vessels of larger size, the fibrous tissue is seen to have a more conspi- cuous development. The longitudinal stri- Fig. 860. A, Small Portion of the Margin of a compressed specimen of the Renal Vein of a Rabbit, treated with Acetic Acid. a, external longitudinal coat, exhibiting yellow fibres and persistent nuclei of areolar tissue; b, middle circular tunic, showing nuclei of muscle cells ; c, internal longitudinal coat (striated mem- brane), the limit of the vessel's cavity ; d, corre- sponds to a small portion of the cavity of the vein. B, Minute Vein from Mesentery of Rabbit, exhibit- ng the three Tunics less distinctly. (Magnified 200 diameters.) ations and fibres on the lining membrane form a perfect striated membrane, and, in still larger vessels, increase so as to constitute a compact coat of fibres, of more or less density — the internal tunic of longitudinal fibres. In the middle coat, the muscular element becomes involved and mixed up with areolar tissue, some fibres of which run parallel, and some at right angles to the muscular nuclei. The external tunic of areolar tissue becomes in- creasingly developed, and yellow fibrous tissue conspicuous and abundant.* In fig. 860. a, is represented part of the renal vein of a rabbit. The vessel is not cut open or seen in section, but is simply laid upon glass, treated with acetic acid, and a small portion of the margin submitted to mi- croscopical scrutiny. The internal membrane is densely striated, and the other coats de- veloped in proportion. * In the comparative examination of small and large blood vessels, there is much to confirm Henle's doctrine of nuclear and cell fibre. In the capillaries, which are mere tubular cells, there is no fibre, and the nucleus is persistent; in larger vessels, where fibrous tissue is developed, the nucleus disappears and yellow fibre is found : but in those veins which retain abundant persistent nuclei, as the cerebral veins, even in those of larger size, no nuclear fibre is detected. There are certain regions in which the veins undergo striking modifications in structure, which require description ; and the remarkable organs — valves — placed in their interior are yet to be considered. These points will be examined as follows: — I. Veins, at their junction with the heart. II. Cava;, passing through the diaphragm and pericardium. III. Cerebral sinuses. IV. Umbilical vein. V. Venous valves. I. At the junction of the veins with the heart there is a great alteration in their composition, and this as it respects both cava, and the pul- monary veins: they assume a muscular cha- racter, and become thicker and red, which arises from a prolongation of the muscle of the auricle into the fibrous structure of the vein. This anatomical fact, as far as the cavae are concerned, was described as early as 1664, by Borelli ; subsequently (1700), by Eidloo, who gave figures of it; and afterwards (1779), by Goiter, who imagined that the muscle was continued into the smaller vessels, and that it there assumed a paler colour. This muscular layer (though its existence is denied by Cruveilhier) may be followed upon the superior vena cava as far as the cla- vicle, upon the inferior as far as the diaphragm, and upon the pulmonary veins as far as the division of the trunks into branches. (Henle.) It exists on the superior cava in greater amount than on the inferior, and it is there best submitted to examination. When viewed with the naked eye, the vena cava superior, at its junction with the heart, is seen to be red and muscular, and thicker than elsewhere. In following this away from the heart, the muscular character gradually diminishes, and the ordinary fibrous tissue assumes the pre- ponderance till the former is altogether lost. At ten lines from the junction of the vessel with the heart the mass was removed from which the accompanying drawing was taken. The cavae of some birds are sufficiently thin and transparent to be vitwed with transmitted light when entire, and when slit up and held to the light a beautiful arrangement of these fibres is seen : they do not form one flat, even, circular, covering, but are arranged in numerous, successive, interrupted, rings, very fine and red, gradually diminishing as they are seen further from the heart. I have observed this in the red-throated diver (Co/ymbm sep- tentrionalis), moor-hen {Gallinula chloropu.s), and various other birds. According to Cuvicr, in the ostrich, muscular fibres extend the whole length of the posterior cava, and dis- appear suddenly opposite the kidneys. When a little mass of this structure is ex- amined with the microscope, it is found to consist of muscle of the same character as that of the heart, — the fibres being smali, striped (though, perhaps, rather less distinctly so than that of the auricle or ventricle), and, as far as I have seen, destitute of sarcolemma. There is a good deal of wavy fibrous tissue, inter- mixed with the muscle ; in this respect, con-