940 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. manner of trace to indicate where the joint once was. In fact this anchylosis had existed for fifty years before the death of the patient. No record is preserved of the cause of it. The joint of one side only is anchylosed, but that of the other side is much altered in form. An abnormal tubercle of bone projects down- wards from the middle of the glenoid cavity and is received into an abnormal excavation or alveolus in the middle of the condyle. The lower jaw is much wasted in size, and has lost all its teeth save the two front incisors. The upper jaw bones are thin and light. The motion of the lower jaw is often lost owing to an affection not immediately con- nected with the joint itself. When, as often happens in scarlatina, cancrum oris, &c. there is extensive sloughing of the inside of the cheeks, the cicatrices resulting from the heal- ing of the great wounds contract, and form bands, extending from the upper to the lower jaw, so strong and unyielding that the muscles which open the mouth are unable to antago- nise them. Comparative Anatomy.—If a palaeonto- logist were asked what fragment of a verte- brate skeleton, speaking generally for all ver- tebrata, would give him most information as to the status and affinities of the animal to which it belonged, he would most probably answer — the articular portion of the lower jaw or the articulation that receives it. Of the convex and concave surfaces which go to form this articulation, in all the mammalia the convexity is on the inferior maxilla, and the concavity on the squamosal bone, whilst in the three other vertebrate classes the re- verse is invariably the case — the concavity is on the inferior maxilla, the convexity on the bone that articulates with it. The under jaw does not articulate with the same, or to speak more accurately, with the homologous bone in all vertebrate animals. In all the mammalia it articulates, as in man, with the squamous element of the temporal •— the squamosal bone. In birds, reptiles, and osseous fishes it articulates with bones which are clearly the special homologues of the tym- panic ring of the human subject. In cartila- ginous fishes its articulation is with the ptery- goid bone, the hoinologue of the human internal pterygoid plate. The Lepidosiren, in which so many other characters of the osseous and cartilaginous fishes are so curi- ously blended together, in strict accord with this circumstance, presents an instance of the pterygoid and tympanic bones contributing each a part — the former the inner, the latter the outer part, of the articular surface for the reception of the lower jaw.* It is well worth while to stop here and review what is stated in the two preceding paragraphs. What is said is, really, this ; — every animal that suckles its young has a convex articular surface to its lower jaw, whilst every vertebrate that lays eggs has a concave sur- face. Or this—every vertebrate animal that * Owen. has hair upon it, that has a diaphragm, or an epiglottis, has a convex articular surface to its lower maxilla, whilst all vertebrates that are destitute of these have a concave surface. Or, again, all animals that suckle their young, and have diaphragms, hair, and epiglottides, present their squamosal bones for the articu- lation of their inferior maxillae, whilst all in which the possession of these characters is negatived present for this articulation their tympanic, or, rarely, their pterygoid bones. Can any physiological reason be assigned for this ? Can any final purpose, holding good in all, or in the majority of, instances, be shown to be served by this difference ? I think none can. One cannot conceive but that it is a matter of perfect indifference whether the convexity is on this bone or that. Let us look once more to the facts. The bat that flies, but not the swallow, the whale that swims but not the cod-fish, the camel that walks the desert, but not the ostrich, the carnivorous lion, seal, and weasel, but not the eagle, penguin, crocodile, and shark, have convex articulations to their lower jaw and present to them their squamosal bones. Here then is a caveat for the physiologist. A character found in an animal may have no physiological signification,—no relation to external circum- stances, nor even a functional connexion with, or dependence on other characters wherewith it coexists, perhaps invariably. It may be due to the status only of the animal. Physiolo- gically independent it may exist in an animal only because other independent characters co-exist. It may be a Syneilogy, not a Teleo- logy. That certain independent characters in- variably go together, which was so elaborately illustrated by Cuvier, is a fact of a high order, perhaps the twilight of some great truth. If future investigations should prove that truth to be progressive developement, towards which hypothesis the inquirer is, even now, tempted by so many striking facts, as well as by the admirable use that can be made of it as a scaffold theory, then we should say, and as making use of a scaffolding we may say it now, that certain characters are attained to at a cer- tain stage in the chain of development, and, therefore, those are found coexisting which are proper to the degree of development to which the animal has arrived. Such characters I have been accustomed to call Syneilogies *, a word which at all events has the merit of re- ferring only to a well known fact, without in- volving any hypothesis. To the palaeontologist this " correlation of independent characters " f is, of course, invaluable, and for the purpose of arranging natural groups in the animal kingdom, these, so to speak, useless,or Syneilogical, cha- racters are immeasurably more valuable than those modifications to meet special exigencies which are called teleologies. Mammalia. — In all mammalia, except man, the articular surface on the squamosal bone is bounded posteriorly, or, in the rodents, inter- * o-'vv, Ei/Ui, \oyt><;. f Cuvier.