1210 TUNICATA. surface of this organ : they are hollow in the centre, and emit a milky fluid, which is shed Fig. 779. A, generative organs of Cynthia ampulla, situated in the fold of the intestine. {After Van Beneden.) a, stomach and its aperture (destitute of oeso- phagus) ; b, rectum and anus; c, ovary, with its outlet into the cloaca; d, testicle, enveloping the edges of the ovary. B, magnified portion of the reproductive organs of Ascidia grossularia. {After Van Beneden. ) a, testicle; b, ovary and ova. into the cloaca, and contains, or rather is almost composed of, spermatozoa, with dis- ciform heads and filamentous tails. The ovary is blackish, and is situated in the midst of the testicle. Its situation corresponds to that of the ovary of the Limaees among the Gasteropods, which is surrounded by the liver. It is easily distinguished from the testicle by its colour and by the appearance of its contained eggs. The oviduct opens into the cloaca by the side of the anus. In Ascidia grossularia the eggs, seen through the walls of the ovary, are of a fine red colour, and are contained in separate sacs, the ovary appearing like a bunch of grapes {fig. 779. b). Van Beneden has distinctly seen in all of these ova the two germinal vesi- cles. The vitellus is at first white, but during development it becomes of a deep red. By the side of the ovary is another series of sacs without ova, and some free cells containing a great number of other more minute cells moving about in their interior, and which when shed swarm about like spermatozoa. These appear to constitute the male organ, and its disposition accords with that of the Amaroucium argus, and with that of the Bryozoa (Van Beneden). There remains much to be elucidated with regard to the generative functions of the Asci- dians. The male and female organs are always associated together, and are apparently each provided with efferent ducts. It appears, however, doubtful whether or not occasion- ally the ova and the spermatozoa may not be brought into contact either in the organs them- selves or in the ducts, as well as in the cloaca. We may notice that the disposition of the sexual organs in the Bryozoa, to which in so many respects the Tunicata bear reference, appears to be, from Van Beneden's observa- tions, as follows. A male and a female organ are separately developed in the peri-intestinal cavity. Each is formed of cells, and in these cells are formed others, which become either vitellus or spermatozoa. When the latter cells are matured, the walls of the ex- terior or mother-cells are burst, and their con- tents are shed into the fluid filling the cavity around the intestine. It is here the male and female elements come into contact, and the ova are subsequently discharged by an orifice at the side of the anus. In some compound Ascidians the peduncle- like post-abdomen forms a receptacle for the ova; and so does the pedicle of Clavel- lina, as in Cirrhipeds ; but the pedicle of Boltcnia and similar forms does not appear to be used for that purpose. Muscular system. — The Ascidiadce being fixed in their adult state, have no muscles of general locomotion ; but they have numerous muscular bands by which they can effect cer- tain movements of contraction and extension. The muscles do not consist, as in Bryozoa, of isolated fibres folding themselves irregularly during contraction ; but each muscle is com- posed of many fibres united. They make their appearance in the young individuals contem- poraneously with the appearance of the respi- ratory sac. The muscular fibre of Tunicata, like that of the whole of the Acephala, is of the organic or unstriped type. In the Ascidiadce, as in other Tunicates, the muscular tissue is chiefly developed in the mantle ; the muscles of the heart and in- tesinal canal (if present) have not been observed. The muscles of the mantle are very thin and narrow bands, generally at considerable distances from one another, sur- rounding all the body of the animal from the anterior to the posterior extremity, and uniting in part with one another on the median line of the dorsal walls {fig. 780.). Fig. 780. Muscular sac or mantle o f Boltenia reniformis. {Original.) In Ascidiec the mantle is more muscular on the anterior and largest part, and more membranous posteriorly. Externally there is a layer of longitudinal muscular bands, and internally of transverse bands. In some