VOICE. 1497 wards perpendicularly to the axis of the bonchus of the same side, by which means the area of the latter is varied. The third bone is but very slightly curved (c). It is separated from the second bone by a triangular membrane; having its extremities articulated to the second bone by ligaments which permit of an extensive freedom of mo- tion, particularly of a rotatory movement on its axis, and it is an important agent, accord- ing to Savart, in modulating the voice. The internal surface of this bone is lined with a fibrous cord which forms the external lip of the glottis. The posterior extremities of these three bones are not united, but have a triangular space between them for the passage of the oesophagus. Fig. 913. Inferior Larynx of the Raven, Shewing the three bones, a, b, c. The Mcmbrana tympaniformis.— This is a thin transparent membrane, extending from the os transversale to the extremities of the bronchial half-rings g (Jigs. 912 and 914) : it forms the internal surface of the larynx and bronchi, and is a continuation of the semilunar membrane; so that the tympaniform and semilunar membranes are stretched simul- taneously, and the latter is acted upon through the instrumentality of the former. The Arytenoid Cartilage. — This is a small body situated at the head of the second bone : it is described by Savart as being of a lozenge shape in the starling, but very short in the nightingale. This form of larynx in the Cor- vidae and Sylviadae is provided with six pairs of muscles.* (See Jig. 914.) Palmipedes. — In the genera Anas and Mergus the inferior larynges of the males only are unsymmetrical, and composed of bony ca- vities. In the Anas domesticus, the inferior larynx presents osseous cavities formed by * These muscles are given in detail by Savart, Memoire sur la Vbix des Oiseaux, in the Ann. de Cliem. et de Physique, vol. xxxii., also Cuvier, in the Rct/ne Animal, vol. iv. There are five pairs of muscles as- signed to the inferior larynx of the singing birds by Cuvier, Mr. Yarrell, Professors Grant and Owen, but six can be made out in the Corvidoe, as stated by Savart, and seen in the figure of the Raven. the developement and union of the last six or seven rings of the trachea. It is divided within into two unequal cavities by the os Fig. 914. 2. 1. 1. The inferior Larynx of the Raven, Shewing the six muscles, a, b, e, d, e.f, which mo- dulate the voice on one side. 2. Anterior view of the same, Shewing the mcmbrana tympaniformis, g. transversale, of which the left is always the largest. The figure of the os transversale is very similar to that of the arytenoid cartilage in the human larynx, consisting of prominences, ridges, and base : the superior prominence of this bone projects high into the tube of the trachea, and completely divides the larynx at its base. The ridge on its left side is fur- nished with a salient lamina, corresponding to a thin transparent semilunar lamina, situated opposite to it: the latter is placed at the en- trance of a small osseous cavity at the infe- rior boundary of the left larynx; a still larger osseous cavity lies obliquely above the semi- lunar membrane. The air sets this membrane in motion as it circulates in the left chambers of the larynx, and contributes to the produc- tion of the well-known peculiar character of voice in this bird. On the right side the cavity of the larynx is of smaller dimensions, of less irregular form, and destitute of those prominent ridges and salient lamina? within. There appears to be a small tympanic mem- brane attached to the first few rings of the bronchus on the right side. In the Mergus serrator the inferior larynx is partly osseous, and partly membranous : it consists of two irregular cavities. The os transversale, i(fg. 915), which has an exten- sive union along its posterior edge and base with the bony boundaries of the larynx, divides this tube into two parts, except at its superior prominence, where it leaves a channel b for the air from the right bronchus f, to pe- netrate the trachea. On the right lateral surface of the larynx, a large oval membrane