THORAX. 1073 we have examined was Randall's ; height 7 ft. weight 22st.; vital capacity 464 cubic inches. The smallest was Don Francisco; height 29in., weight about 40 lbs. ; vital capacity 46 cubic Fig. 706. Relative height of two persons standing. inches. The highest vital capacity at the height of 5 ft. 8 in. was 330 cubic inches. A question arises, are the lungs and tho- racic parietes at their maximum stretch when they contain the appropriate vital capacity volume ? We believe not. The vital capa- city of the person from whom the preparations figured above {Jigs. 680. ct scq.) were taken, whose height was 5>ft. 4 in., weight 1071b., was 198 cubic inches ; yet, after death, we forced 300 cubic inches of air into his lungs without rupturing them, being 102 cubic inches more than he could expire during life. There- fore there is still a spare mobility of parts, probably in reserve, to be exercised when dis- ease attacks the lungs. 2nd. Vital capacity affected by the posi- tion of the body. — We have said a man must hold himself erect to breathe out a good vo- lume of air ; because the mobility of the ribs is affected by the uprightness of the spine; and, more than this, whatever touches the ribs affects their mobility, and consequently the vital capacity. Thus, standing, we have produced a vital capacity of 260 cubic inches ; sitting erect 255 cubic inches; recumbent — supine 230, prone 220 cubic inches ; position making a difference of 40 cubic inches. This may explain why patients with emphysematous lungs sit up in bed, and why for them to lie recumbent, is "suffocating;" because they thereby diminish the thoracic mobility. It may be well to recollect this effect upon respi- ration, in treatment of diseases of the spine, particularly at the present time, when they are Fig, 707. treated by laying the patient on the anterior pacity from 260 to 220 cubic inches. part of the chest for weeks and months to- 3rd. Vital capacity affected by weight. — gether, which position reduced our vital ca- The weight affects the vital capacity ; but VOL. IV. 3 z