904 TEETH. the letter m.; these also being differentiated by added numerals. Thus, the number of these teeth, on each side of both jaws, in any given species, Man e.g., may be expressed 2 2 by the following brief formula: — i. > 2—2 ] [ 2 2 3 3 c- yzz\'P- 2^2'm' 3—3=32; an^ t,ie nomo" logies of the individual teeth, in relation to the typical formula, may be signified by i. I., i. 2.; c. ; p. 3., p. 4.; m. 1., m. 2., m. 3.: the suppressed teeth being i. 3.*, p. 1., and p. 2. Examples of the typical dentition are ex- ceptions in the actual creation; but it was the rule in the forms of Mammalia first introduced into this planet; and that, too, whether the teeth were modified for animal or vegetable food. Fig. 576., e. g., shows the dental series The true molars in the one are tuberculate, indicating its tendency to vegetable diet; in the other, they are carnassial, and betoken a peculiarly destructive and bloodthirsty spe- cies. In the Quarterly Geological Journal, No. 13, 1848, p. 36. "pi. iv., I have described and figured the entire dental series of one side of the lower jaw of an extinct hoofed quadruped, the Dichodon cuspidatus, from eocene or oldest tertiary strata, also mani- festing the normal number and kinds of teeth, but with such equality of height of crown, that no interspace is needed to lodge any of the teeth when the jaws are closed, and the series is as entire and uninterrupted as in the human subject. A great proportion of the upper jaw and teeth has been discovered, and Fig. 576. Dentition of the Amphieyon major. Upper jaw. of the upper jaw of the Amphicymi major, a the marks of abrasion on the lower teeth mixed-feeding ferine animal, allied to the prove the series above to have been as entire Bear. Fig. 577. shows the dental series of and continuous as that below. The Anoplo- the under jaw of a more strictly carnivorous therium ("Odontography," pi. 135. fig. 1.), Fig. 577. Dentition of the Hycenodon. Lower jaw. beast, the Hyamodon ; the fossil remains of a species of which have been discovered in the oldest tertiary deposits of Hampshire. The symbols denote the homologies of the teeth. * I have been guided by the analogy of the hare (Odontography, p. 410, pi. 104, fig. 5.) in this de- termination ; but a contradictor might indulge his instinct without liability to disproof from actual knowledge. from the gypsum quarries of Montmartre, geologically as ancient as the eocene clays of this island, long ago presented to Cuvier the same peculiar continuous dental series as is shown in the Dichodon. In his original Me- moir, Cuvier described the canines as a fourth pair of incisors, on account of their small size and their trenchant shape; but he after- wards recognised their true homology with