1425' VESICULA PROSTATICA. But it is not on this that Meckel chiefly relies. He conspicuously brings forward an- other argument. He states that, if with Weber we regard the vesicula prostatica as the uterus, and its opening as the os tinea?, we must in consequence consider as the vagina the beginning of the uro-genital sinus, into which open, beside the vesicula, the ejacu- latory ducts and the urethra; a view which has often occurred to the author of this article. But, in the female Mammalia, the vagina never receives the urethra. This is always inserted at the outer border of the vagina, where it passes into the short and sinus-like dilatation of the uro-genital canal (vestibu.htm, atrium vagiiite), so that the vagina always lies internally to the aperture of the urethra. Its relation to the vasa deferentia is exactly similar, as the history of their development proves that they are originally the efferent ducts of the Wolffian bodies. It is true that these latter generally disappear in the female mammal, but here and there some relics of them are left. This is especially the case in the female ruminant and pig, where they are known under the name of Gartner's canals. Here also they open, never into the vagina, but into the ductus uro-genitalis, together with the urethra. So that in all cases, after the points of opening of the urethra and vasa deferentia, the vagina comes next interiorly. And in the male mammalian the Weberian organ has this situation : it is therefore, con- cludes Meckel, the vagina, and not the uterus. While I allow the correctness of the facts brought forward by Meckel, and while,—■ against my own earlier opinion,— I have some scruples as to the unconditional accuracy of Weber's explanation, yet I cannot approve of Meckel's conclusion. The form of the Weberian organ, the bifurcation at its upper end, which occurs in so many instances, even its being imbedded in a transverse fold of peritoneum (corresponding to the broad liga- ments of the uterus) remind one too closely of the female uterus to admit of the analogy being mistaken. Now, in oriler to reconcile this circum- stance with the facts brought forward by Meckel, there remains but two expedients ; either to suppose a complete deficiency of the vagina in the male mammal (in which case the explanation of Weber would be pre- served entire), or to set forth the Weberian organ as the morphological equivalent of the vagina and uterus together. The latter of these two acceptations, which I have already defended against Meckel in another place*, finds its full confirmation in the observations on its normal anil abnormal development. On these grounds it may be advisable to review them briefly in this place. From the exposition which Rathkef has given us of the development of the vagina * Gottingische Gelehrte Anzeigen, loc. cit. j- Abhandlungen zur Bildungs- und Entwicke- Iungsgesckichte, Leipzig, 1832, S. CO. VOL. IV. and uterus, it becomes evident that these two structures at first present the appearance of a common or inseparable tube, the genital canal, which is only afterwards divided into an upper and under section by a different development of its coats, being connected with a transverse dismemberment. One of these is developed into the vagina; the other forms the uterus. At its first formation the uterus is simple: its cornua only begin later, when the tubes enter its cavity. Now, if this genital canal sustained a check of development prior to the separation of the uterus and vagina, it would remain as a simple tube, the horns of which would be either not at all or but imperfectly developed : in short, it would be a Weberian organ. In this way the observations on the normal development of the genitals do not in the least contradict the explanation of the Weberian organ as a genital canal (uterus plus vagina). It is true that we can scarcely thence deduce an absolute proof. We find it, however, in the evidence afforded by the pathological his- tory of its development, since we observe that the Weberian organ is there metamorphosed into both of these parts. I have already mentioned above, that a knowledge of the Weberian organ is of the greatest importance in the study of herma- phrodism—a study which now requires a fundamental revision in connection with the recent observations on the morphology of the genitals — and especially since the numerous * instances of androgyny for the most part de- pend upon an excessive development of this structure in the male individual,— associate;! with some other abnormal occurrences in the development of the uro-genital canal and the penis, which appear at the same time, accord- ing to the law of coexistence. I have now a number of such atulrogyni before me. They are all goats, in whom this deformity of the genitals is proportionately very frequent. The exterior segments of the genitals (uro-genital sinus and penis) are, in different degrees of development, formed after the female type, i e. they are checked in their development to male parts; and so also is the Weberian organ; while instead of ovaries, testicles with epididymes and seminal ducts are present. In one of these, a new-born animal, the Weberian organ forms a very considerable tubular dependency, which opens by an oval and fissured aperture of about H lines in length, close beneath the two vasa deferentia, in the commencement of the short and wide uro-genital canal. (Fig. 8S2.) From thence the Weberian organ ascends for about two inches as a short and wide cylinder, to split at its extremity into two horns of an inch in length. The left horn is hollow in its whole course, but the right only in its lower half. The * Another smaller number of androgyni includes female individuals, with excessive development of the Wolffian bodies and their efferent ducts (Epi- didymis and vasa deferentia). Vide Simpson, loc. cit., p. 707. 4 Y