1428 VESICULA PROSTATICA. tween the Weberian organ and the vasa c!e- ferentia, but also on account of its seeming to constitute an exception to the alleged morphological law that the efferent ducts of the Wolffian glands never open into the vagina, but always into the point of its tran- sition into the uro-genital canal. Accord- ing to my observations in the embryo of the rabbit, even here the ordinary relation is originally present: the Weberian organ opens close behind the vasa deferentia into the uro- genital canal. But very soon a transverse fold arises behind the points of opening of the seminal ducts, and by its continual enlarge- ment, even after birth, it as constantly pro- trudes these openings outwards into the neck of the Weberian organ. Even in the fully de- veloped condition this fold may be recognised in the anterior swollen margin of the opening of the Webcrian organ. Addendum.—A considerable period having elapsed since the MS. of the preceding article was placed in the Editor's hands, I have availed myself, during that time, of many op- portunities boLh of confirming and extending my observations on the phenomena con- nected with the Weberian corpuscle. My esteemed friend and colleague, the eminent embryologist, (J H. Bischoff, has, with great liberality, handed over to me a large number of rare preparations, from the collection of the Giessen University, for comparative ex- amination. From another source also an important addition to the knowledge of this organ has been afforded us ; and this I hail with the greater pleasure, as it shows how great an interest attaches itself to this subject in other countries. The treatise to which 1 allude is the Inaugural Dissertation by Wahlgren, pub- lished at Lund.* I therefore now find myself in a position to fill up many deficiencies in the foregoing paper. For this purpose I prefer the form of a supplement, and hope that the reader will excuse whatever degree of inconvenience at- taches itself to it, on account of the circum- stances under which a foreign contributor is situated. Quadrumana. — I formerly conjectured that the true Apes, without exception, possessed the Weberian organ (p. 1416.) ; in confirma- tion of this, I can now add, that it occurs both in the species mentioned (,'oc. cit.), and in Pitkecus troglodytes and Cynocephalus por- carius. Wahlgren observed it likewise in an undescribed species of Ape. It appears, how- ever, not to occur throughout the group in an equal manner. In the Lemur albifrons, I ob- served on the colhculus seminalis a fine longi- tudinal fissure, between the apertures of the seminal ducts (a fine capillary canal entered it a short distance — but this may have been * Eidrag till Gencrations-Organernas Anatomi och Physiologi lios Menniskan oc-h Daggdjuren, 1843. Translated by Peters into German, in 3. Mid- ler's Archiv fur Anatomie and Physiologic li>4i), S. 086., e( seq. made in mounting the preparation): in Stenops tardigradus I have, however, convinced myself of the absence of the organ. Feree. — Wahlgren describes the Weberian corpuscle in Felis lynx as an oval cavity, three lines in length, and opening by a fissure-hke aperture into the uro-genital canal on the mid- die of the verumontanum. In the Brown Bear it is similar, but much larger (5'"), pear- shaped, and with a considerable aperture. Nasua fusca, also, according to Wahlgren, possesses a similar gland. In the Otter, I have now observed this organ in two speci- mens. It is disposed as the foregoing, and; as was conjectured, has a considerable central cavity, with a small aperture. The cornua are solid ligamentous cords. Marsupialia.— The marsupial animals ap- pear to be very generally destitute of this organ. In Halrnaturusgiganteus, Phascolomys wombatus, and Sarcophilus ursinus, I found no more traces of it than previously in Didelphys pirginiana. Wahlgren also found it absent in Halrnaturus giganteus. Rodcntia. — The remarkable structure of this organ in Rabbits and Hares might well belong to the whole group of the Lepurince. In Lepusborealis it is the least, asterisparibus, according to Wahlgren. Yet here it attains even the colossal size of three inches, with a proportionate breadth (up to \" 10"'). With the Palmipedia, on the contrary, it is other- wise. Distinct as it is in the Beaver (p. 1418.), it is but little developed in the nearly related 3fyopotanuis coypus,'m which Wahlgren found a mere rudiment, consisting of two thread-like cords. The two agreed in their position with the Weberian corpuscle of the beaver, and enclose a small cavity, with an opening on the colliculus seminalis. With re- gard to Sciurus, Wahlgren confirmed the ab- sence of the organ : nor was it observed in Lemnus. Hystrix eristata anil Hydroehcerus enpybara are likewise without it, according to my own observations. In the last, however, as in the closely allied Agouti and Cavia, the two seminal ducts have a common, cavernous, wide aperture. Edentata. — Besides the Bradypits iridac- tylus, I have lately examined Cholcep>us didac- tylu1', also Dasypus octosus, and Ornithorhyncus paradoxus. In none of these is the organ present. Wahlgren also states the same of Ornithorhyncus. Ruminantia.— The Weberian organ appears to be generally present in the Cervina. That of the deer is above described (p. 1420.). It is far moreconsiderable in the Hart and the Reindeer, where it ascends between the seminal ducts in the fcrm of a cylinder, about two inches long, which in the former is distinctly bi-cleft at the extremity. There is an internal cavity, which in the Hart is continued into the cornua, and opens on the vcmniontanum. In the Goat there are numerous individual varieties in the development of this organ, as I have before mentioned (p. 1420.). In many instances it is altogether wanting, as I have now convinced myself. In one case I