TEETH. 883 Ophidian, and Batracliian reptiles, are, for the most part, simple and adapteil for seizing and holding, but not for dividing or masticating their food. The Siren alone combines true teeth with a horny maxillary trenchant sheath, like that of the Chelonian reptiles. With respect to number, in no existing rep- tile are the teeth reduced so low as in certain mammals and fishes ; nor, on the other hand, are they ever so multiplied as in many of the latter class. The extinct Dicynodont reptiles of South Africa had but two teeth, which were long tusks implanted in the upper jaw.* Some species of Amphhbcena (A. alba), with fifteen teeth in the upper jaw and four- teen in the lower jaw, and certain Monitors (Varanus), with sixteen teeth in the upper and fourteen in the lower jaw, afford examples of the smallest number of teeth amongst existing reptiles ; and certain Batracbians, with teeth "en cardes " at the roof of the mouth, or which have upwards of eighty teeth in each lateral maxillary series, present the largest number. It is rarely that the number of the teeth is fixed and determinate in any reptile so as to be characteristic of the species, and still more rarely have the individual teeth such characters as to be determined homo- logically from one species to another. With respect to situation, the teeth may be present on the jaws only, i.e. the maxillary, pre- maxillary, and mandibular bones, as in the croco- diles and many lizards : or upon the jaws and roof of the mouth ; and here either upon the pterygoid bones, as in the Iguana and Mosa- saur, or upon both palatine and pterygoid bones, as in most serpents, or upon the vomer, as in most Batrachians, or upon both vomerine and pterygoid bones, as in the Axo- lote; or upon the vomerine and sphenoid bones, as in the Salamandraglutinosa, Maclure. With respect to the marginal or jaw teeth, these may be absent in the intermaxillary bones, as in many serpents; or they may be present in the upper and not in the lower jaw, as in most frogs ; or in both upper and lower jaws, as in the tailed Batrachians ; and among these they may be supported, upon the lower jaw, by the premandibular or den- tary piece, as in the Salamanders, Menopome, Amphiume, Proteus ; or upon the splenial piece, as in the Siren ; or upon both splenial and premandibular bones, as in the Axolotl. The palatine and pterygoid teeth may, in the Batrachians, be arranged in several rows, like the " dents en cardes " of fishes. The sphe- noid and splenial teeth are always so ar- ranged in the few species that possess them. The intermaxillary, maxillary, and preman- dibular teeth are uniserial, or in one row, with the exception of the Cascilia and the extinct Labyrinthodonts, which have a double row of teeth at the anterior part of the lower jaw. The teeth of reptiles, with few exceptions, present a simple conical form, with the crown more or less curved, and the apex more or * Transactions of the Geological Society, 2d series, vol. vii., 1845, p. 50. less acute. The cone varies in length and thickness ; its transverse section is sometimes circular, but more commonly elliptical or oval, and this modification of the cone may be traced through every gradation, from the thick, round, canine-like tooth of the croco- dile, to the sabre-shaped fang of the Varanus, the Megalosaur, and the Cladeiodon.* Some- times, as in the fully formed teeth of the Megalosaur, one of the margins of the com- pressed crown of the tooth is trenchant, sometimes both are so ; and these may be simply sharp-edged, as in the Varanus of Timor, or finely serrated, as in the great Va- ranus, the Cladeiodon, and the Megalosaur.-j- The outer surface of the crown of the tooth is usually smooth ; it may be polished, as in the Leiodon, or impressed with fine lines, as in the Labyrinthodon {fig. 551.), or raised into many narrow ridges, as in the Pleiosaur and Poiyptychodon, or broken by a few broad ridges, as in the Iguanodon { 'fig. 571.), or grooved by a single longitudinal furrow, as in some serpents (fig.,5(59, A).t The cone is longest and its summit sharpest in the serpents : from these may be traced, chiefly in the lizard tribe, a progressive short- ening, expansion of the base, and blunting of the apex of the tooth, until the cone is reduced to a hemispherical tubercle, or plate, as in the Thorictes and Cyclodus (fig. 570.). In the Pleiosaur the dental cone is three- sided, with one of the angles rounded off. The posterior subcompressed teeth of the alligator (Jig. 573.) present anew modification of fornix here they terminate in a mammillate summit, supported by a slightly constricted neck. In the tooth of the Hylceosaur the expanded summit is flattened, bent, and spear- shaped, with the edges blunted. But the expansion of the crown is greatest in the sub- compressed teeth of the extinct Cardiodon and the existing Iguanas, the teeth of which are farther complicated by having the margins notched. The great Iguanodon had the crown of the tooth expanded both in length and breadth, and combining marginal dentations with longitudinal ridges : this tooth (fig. 571.) presents the most complicated external form as yet discovered in the class of reptiles. In no reptiles does the base of the tooth ever branch into fangs. Attachment. — As a general rule, the teeth of reptiles are anchylosed to the bone which supports them. When they continue distinct, they may be lodged either in a continuous groove, as in the Ichthyosauri, or in separate sockets, as in the Plesiosaur and Crocodilians (fig. 573.). The base of the tooth is anchy- losed to the walls of a moderately deep socket in the extinct Megalosaur and Theocodon. In the Labyrinthodonts and Caecilia;, among the Bratrachians ; in most Ophidians ; and in the Geckos, Agamians, and Varanians, among the Saurians, the base of the tooth is * Odontography, pi. 62 A, fig. 4. f lb. fit/. 6c. % lb. pi. 65; vol.iv.,^6-. 200, 210. § lb. pi. 13, fig. 9. 3l 2