1086 THORAX. Table II. — Number of Respirations, of 255 Phthisical Patients, per Minute (sitting). Respirations per Number of Minute. Cases. A sudden change in atmospheric pressure affects the number of breathing movements in a given time. We found the following limited but sudden increase of atmospheric pressure increase them as follows. In South- Hetton coal-mine in the county of Durham, — Depth of the mine 1488 feet. Barom. Thermom. At the level of the sea 28-72 - - 39° At the bottom of the mine 30 26 - - 49° Difference P54 10° The additional pressure of the of an atmosphere increased the ordinary breathing from one to three times per minute. This difference was purely the effect of pressure, and not that of fatigue or mental emotion. It might only be temporary. Aeronauts inform us that diminished pres- Table KK. — Effect of increased Atmospheric Pressure on the " ordinary " Respirations upon six healthy men. ON THE SURFACE. IN THE MINE. Respira Pulse. tions. Respira- Pulse. tions. M. P. — S. — H. — L. — W. — T. 56 15 98 20 72 16 90 14 88 185 85 18 50 16 98 24 68 19 88 15 93 22 100 20 Mean - 83 16-9 843 19-3 sure increases the number of respirations ; but with them there is this difference, that with diminished pressure there is a sensation of a want of air. When the barometer is low we feel lassitude, and call the " day heavy," when in truth the air is lighter, and we ourselves are heavier ; when the barometer is high, we generally experience an indescribable sensation of pleasure—the vital energies seem doubled. With a sudden and considerable fall of the barometer there is a transient plethora. The blood-vessels become distended, owing to which, together with certain hygrometric changes in the air, we feel listless, and the least exertion produces perspiration. Du- hamel observed that, in the month of De- cember, 1747, the barometer in less than two days fell 1^ in., producing a change of pressure on the body of a man, of 1400 lbs.; this he ob- serves was accompanied with many sudden deaths. It is evident that with an increased pressure we get more air into the lungs with a given mobility; for, caleris paribus, air, with the barometer at 30 in. must be more dense than the same air with the barometer at 29 in. In the mine in question, we experienced a sensa- tion of lightness and vigour. The number of respirations are always increased when there is a preternatural increase in the temperature of the body. Of the Sounds of Respiration.— The breaking up of the air into minute streams was discovered by Laennec to produce certain sounds, named "breathing sounds:" which sounds are now made available in detecting organic disease in the lungs. As the air penetrates the lungs, it is divided and sub- divided until it enters the minute air vesi- cles. The air passes, 1st, through the trachea, producing " tracheal sounds," — a hollow rough blowing ; 2nd, through the next divi- sion of vessels (bronchial), producing " bron- chial sounds," less hollow and termed "whiff- ing or tubular ;" and, 3rd, into the air vesicles, producing " vesicular sound," —a soft, silky murmur like a gentle breeze among the leaves of trees. Dr. Jackson discovered that which Laennec overlooked : — this murmur is not heard in expiration, while the other two sounds are. Hence the expiratory murmur is a morbid sign, and if heard on the left side below the acromial end of the clavicle, is a sure sign of some altered condition of the air tubes, not compatible with a healthy lung. This expiratory mur- mur may sometimes be heard faintly on the right side, and not be a morbid sound ; but if strongly heard there, it is a morbid sign. A question now arises: Why is there a murmur- ing sound with inspiration and not with expira- tion ? First, let us inquire what is the dif- ference between the inspiratory and the expiratory act ? They differ in two ways : 1st. In Inspiration the lungs are passive ; the chest threatens a vacuum, and the air enters a rarefied space. In Expiration the lungs are active ; there is no rarefied space ; the air is squeezed out into the atmosphere. This does not affect our question. 2dly. In Lispiration a volume of air is broken up into smaller and smaller streams. In Expiration these small streams are collected up into the original volume by larger and larger streams. This answers the question. The hollow blowing sound in the trachea is caused by the friction of the air against the sides of the tube. The relation of the friction