VARIETIES OF MANKIND. i.361 Fig. 84-9. Artificially-compressed Cranium from Titicaca. (From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) continued among the Peruvians for some time after their conquest by the Spaniards ; for the Ecclesiastical Court of Lima passed a decree in the year 1585, forbidding parents, under certain specified penalties, to compress or distort the heads of their children in the various modes which were then in vogue. The practice still exists among certain tribes of South American Indians ; and seems to be regarded in much the same light with the artificial compression of the foot by the Chinese, or of the waist by the French and English,—namely, as an artificial develop- ment of a natural beauty. V. Oceanic Nations. — The vast Oceanic area, extending in longitude from Madagascar on the one side, to Easter Island (half way be- tween Asia and America) on the other; and in latitude from Formosa to New Zealand, includ- ing the numerous islands of the Indian and Polynesian archipelagoes, and the great island- continent of Australia, is peopled by tribes the greater part of which are undoubtedly related to each other very intimately, and have no near affinities with those of any other region. The only part of the mainland of Asia which is in- habited by an Oceanic tribe, is the Peninsula of Malacca ; and there is far more reason to think that this tribe has migrated to that locality from the neighbouring part of Oceania, than that it represents the original stock and line of migration of the Oceanic races. In the physical characters of the Oceanic tribes, two typical varieties present themselves ; and these may be designated as the Malayo-Polynesian, and the Negrito, The Malayo-Polynesians present a nearer approach to the Mongolian type than to any other ; but they must be compared rather with the modified Mongols of the south-east por- tion of the Asiatic continent, than with the proper Turanian stock. Their complexion is yellow, olive, brunette, or brown, rarely or never darkening into black ; their hair, often long, is usually black and straight ; the face is usually somewhat flat, the cheek-bones high, and the antero-posterior diameter of the skull short; but there is often a tendency to the VOL. IV. prognathous character, such as is shown among the inferior Hindoos. This division of the Oceanic races occupies the greater part of the Indian Archipelago, and the whole of the Polynesian ; but it does not exist in New Guinea, Australia, Tasmania, New Ireland, or the islands between it and New Caledonia, which are peopled exclusively by Negritos. That the tribes thus widely dispersed are all descendants of one and the same stock, and belong to the same race, seems distinctly proved by the affinities of their languages ; which, although presenting considerable modi- fications (as might be naturally expected from a prolonged isolation, and from the entire ab- sence of a literature), yet accord, as has been proved by William Humboldt, in many of their primary words, and in their general plan of construction. This mutual relationship is the closest among the Malayan dialects of the Indian Archipelago on the one hand, and among the tongues spoken by the various Poly- nesian islanders on the other; but these two groups are also undoubtedly related to one another, in such a manner as to constitute but one family of languages.—The proper Malays are, for the most part, a people of short and slender stature, and small limbs, but well- formed and vigorous; they have flat faces, somewhat oblique eyes, and features resem- bling the Chinese; the hue of their com- plexion, however, is considerably deeper, but is not so dark as that of the Hindoos, yellow being still a large ingredient. These cha- racters, however, are far from being uniformly exhibited by the whole Malayan branch ; and in particular it is to be remarked that a ten- dency to the prognathous type occasionally shows itself, as in the skull of a Bugis of Celebes, described by Blumenbach.—Between the Malayan and the proper Polynesian area is a small group, including the Pelew, Caroline, and Marianne islands, the inhabitants of which are even more conformable to the Mongolian type than are either the true Malays or the proper Polynesians ; these are termed by Dr. Prichard, Micronesians. A consideration of the probable lines of that migration which 4 s