1167 TOUCH. Besides the papillary apparatus, however, we find certain animals endowed with special organs of touch, which are constructed upon a very different plan ; consisting of a rod or filament, which is in itself insensible, but which is connected at its base with nervous fibres, in such a manner that any motion or vibration communicated to it must be transmitted to them. Such are the long stiff' hairs which are known as the " whiskers" of the feline tribe, and which are so particularly large in the seal ; these are also highly deve- loped in many of the rodentia, such as the hare and rabbit; and it has been proved by experiment, that if they be cut off, the animal loses in great degree its power of guiding its movements in the dark. Thus Mr. Broughton found that whilst a kitten whose whiskers were entire was capable of threading its way blindfold out of a labyrinth in which it was designedly placed, it was totally unable to do so when its whiskers were cut off; for it then struck its head repeatedly against the sides, ran against all the corners, and tumbled over steps placed in its way, instead of avoiding them as it did prior to the loss of its whis- kers.* In animals whose hairs are their im- portant instruments of touch, a true papilla, copiously furnished with nerves and blood- vessels, is found to project into the bulb of each hair. The jointed appendages to the head, known as antenna; and palpi, which are possessed by most articulated animals, are un- doubtedly instruments of touch, whatever sensory impressions they may receive in addi- tion. The antennae, when prolonged, serve to guide the movements of the animal ; the impressions which they receive at their ex- tremities being communicated to the nerves at their base, just as a blind man judges by the stick held in his hand of the proximity of obstacles to his progress.f On the other hand, the palpi appear to minister to the cognisance of objects brought into the neighbourhood of the mouth, and to have for their chief office to guide in the selection of food. But while there are many facts which seem to indicate that the antennae minister to the sense of hearing, there are others which appear to point to the palpi as the special instruments of that of smell. Conditions of the Sense of Touch. — The sense of touch, strictly so called, is exercised under conditions essentially the same as those through which the general sensibility of the * London Medical and Physical Journal, 1823. f The author is acquainted with a blind gentle- man who exhibits a remarkable dexterity in the use of his stick in guiding his movements; and he has been informed by him, that much of his power of discrimination depends upon the flexibility, elasti- city, &c. of this instrument, so that, when he has chanced to lose or break the one to which he has been accustomed, it is often long before he can ob- tain another that shall suit him so well. This cir- cumstance seems to throw some light upon the re- makable varieties of conformation in the antenna; of insects; as it may well be imagined that each is adapted to receive and to communicate impressions of a particular class, adapted to the wants of the species. body is affected. It is requisite, in the first place, that the bodies, of whose'presence it takes cognisance, should be brought into actual contact with the tactile surface ; the only exception being in regard to the tempe- rature of objects, the influence of which may be communicated by radiations from a distance. This difference, however, does not indicate any fundamental diversity such as some have imagined to exist, between the sense of tem- perature and that of resistance ; for, in each case, that which is perceived by the mind is the impression made upon the sensory organ ; and the change in this is excited in the one case by pressure, and in the other by heat or cold. The same organ appears to be adapted to take cognisance of both classes of impres- sions ; a feeling of one kind being excited, when its condition is altered by pressure ; and a feeling of a different kind, when its tempe- rature has undergone a change under the in- fluence of calorific radiations. And the dif- ference between these classes of sensations is not greater than that which exists among others, — whether of a general or a special kind, — which we know to be transmitted by the same nerve-fibres. Yet it would seem that, whilst there is no sufficient reason for supposing impressions of contact and of tem- perature to be transmitted by different nerve- fibres, we must admit that some of these fibres, either in virtue of their own constitu- tion, of the locality of their central termina- tion, or of the apparatus with which they are furnished at their peripheral origin, are en- dowed with a greater readiness to receive and transmit one or the other class of impressions. For we find that the parts whose tactile sen- sibility is the most discriminating, are not always those by which the keenest apprecia- tion of changes of temperature is obtained. And, in like manner, the occasional occur- rence of cases of paralysis, in which there is a total loss of one kind of sensation, whilst the other is preserved, or in which one is di- minished beyond all proportion to the other, seems to show that such a change may take place in the nerve-fibres, as may indispose them to the reception and transmission of one class of impressions, whilst they are still capable of actively responding to the other. After what has been said of the necessity of the supply of blood, for the active exercise of common or general sensibility, and of the vas- cularity of the special tactile organs, it is not requisite to lay any further stress on this point, in relation to the sense of touch, strictly so called. Another important condition, w hich is probably common to the whole sensory apparatus of the warm-blooded animal, and which has been already noticed under the head of Taste, is a temperature not too far removed from that which is natural to the body. It has been shown by Professor E. H. Weber, that if the fingers or the hps be im- mersed for half a minute or a minute in water heated to 125°, or cooled to 32°, the power of tactile discrimination is so much impaired, that the power of distinguishing between a