1372 VEIN. masses of white fibrous tissue are obliterated. When treated witli this reagent the fibres of this coat lose their wavy character to a cer- tain extent, and present intersecting undula- tions. (Fig. 857. a.) When the internal coat is seen in transverse section, it presents a granular, indistinct appearance, without fibres of any determinate direction : in some places it presents lines of a crumpled or corrugated as- pect. In Jig. 858. a, this may be seen, as also its distinctness from the next coat, from which it is separated at one part by a slight interval. This coat appears to exist in all the veins, and in the smaller ones, and larger capillaries when treated with acetic acid, as hereafter to be described, its presence would seem to be indicated by the internal longitudinal nuclei, which are then displayed. Middle coat of intermixed circular and lon- gitudinal fibres. — This tunic occupies about one-fourth of the entire thickness of the wall of a vein. Its internal boundary is sharp and distinct, where this coat is in contact with the internal, but the outer boundary, where it gra- dually merges into the external, is indefinite, and indeed artificial. In Jig. 856. the middle coat is represented at b, and is composed of intermixed fibres of longitudinal and transverse yellow elastic tissue embedded in a nidus of white fibre. As this figure represents a longitudinal section, the transverse fibres of the yellow element Fig. 857. Longitudinal vertical Section of Wall of Subclavian Vein of Ox, treated with Acetic Acid. a, internal coat; b, middle coat; c, part of external coat. (Magnified 200 diameters.) are seen cut across, and appear as small discs : on the other hand, the longitudinal fibres with which they are mingled, are seen in pro- file, as interlacing and parallel rods: the former gradually diminish, and the latter, in the same proportion, increase, as viewed fur- ther and further from the inner surface; and that point where the discs entirely disappear and the longitudinal fibres alone remain may be considered as the external limit of the middle coat. This limit is very clearly seen in a specimen treated with acetic acid (Jig. 857. b) ; when, as in Jig. 858. b, the sec- tion has been transverse, the discs and rods of yellow elastic tissue occupy a position and proportion the reverse of what has been de- scribed. The discs are the most abundant on the outer, and the rods on the inner part of this coat, the former being seen in section, and the latter in profile. This middle coat is very compact, especi- ally near the inner surface, and it gradually becomes less so in proceeding outwards. It is difficult to tell what is the course and direction of the nidus of white fibrous tissue in which the yellow element is embedded, as in the middle coat it forms a dense granular compact mass*, when seen in situ, and its true nature is only displayed by the action of acetic acid. When, however, portions of the tissue are picked abroad with needles, though its direction is lost, its characters are ob- vious. As it regards the muscularity of this coat, there can exist no doubt. The recent ob- servations of Kolliker on the low form of muscle, which he designates " muscular," or "contractile fibre-cells," have placed this pre- viously obscure subject in an intelligible and satisfactory light, and have done much to ex- plode the idea of non-muscular contraction, by exhibiting the wide diffusion of this hitherto unrecognised tissue. Kolliker describes two forms of fibre-cells as existing in blood-vessels,— one, consisting of short, round, spindle-shaped, or rectangular plates, like epithelium ; the other, of long plates of irregular, rectangular, spindle, or club, shape. The substance of these cells is soft, light yellow, and homogeneous, and each con- tains a peculiar, characteristic nucleus, whose shape is constant, being that of a club or staff. These fibre-cells are placed transversely as it regards the vessel, and constitute a thin coat, immediately external to the lining membrane, intermixed with cellular tissue. These mus- cular elements are clearly seen (as exhibited by their nuclei) by the action of acetic acid on small vessels. (Fig. 860.) He further states that the great develop- ment of the uterine veins during pregnancy is principally from an increased size of the fibre- cells existing in the middle coat, but partlv also from the inner and outer coat acquiring a considerable quantity of smooth muscular fibre. According to the same authority this mus- cular element is not found in the veins of the uterine portion of the placenta, the cerebral T I would here observe, that when white fibrous tissue is dried and re-moistened, as in these sec- tions, it does not regain all its physical characters : it has lost to a great degree its wavy lines, and hence it is not so easily recognized.