1221 TUNICATA. tions follow each other somewhat rapidly, and have all the same direction ; but suddenly they are arrested, and then recommence in a con- trary direction. The blood thus sent sometimes from behind forwards, and sometimes vice versa, ascends towards the thorax ; but does not appear to be conducted thither by vessels. It is poureil out between the inner tunic of the abdomen and the viscera lodged in that cavity ; and here it forms currents, which vary in their position according as the movements of the animal, or any other mechanical causes, op- pose their passage. In general, however, the chief portion of the blood ascends by the dorsal or the ventral surface of the abdomen ; and after having bathed the surface of the viscera, it gains the base of the branchial sac. When the heart's contraction is from behind forward, the ascending current passes along the anterior side of the abdomen, and the blood enters a large vertical canal, on the front of the respiratory cavity, termed by Milne-Edwards the great thoracic or ventral sinus. This median sinus gives rise on each side to a series of large transverse vessels, which intercommunicate by means of a num- ber of minute vertical vessels, and which, after having formed a kind of vascular net- work, spread over the walls of the branchial cavity, and terminate in another vertical canal parallel to the ventral sinus, but situated on the opposite side of the thorax. A portion of the blood arrives at the same time in this dorsal sinus without having traversed the branchial net-work, by means of a vessel that arises from the superior extremity of the great ventral sinus and surrounds the base of the branchial orifice. Lastly the blood spreads out between the viscera and the internal tunic of the body, descends along the dorsal side of the abdomen, and again reaches the heart. If the circulation were constant in the above direction, it would somewhat resemble that of the other Acephalans. The heart might then be compared to an aortic ventricle, the tho- racic sinus to a great branchial artery, and the dorsal sinus to a branchial vein. But owing to the contrary directions of the blood-cur- rents, from the periodically varying impulses of the heart, the vessels that fulfil at one time the functions of veins, at another become arteries, and vice versa. This peculiar extra-vascular circulation, so well described by Milne-Edwards, is also very distinctly seen in the Clavellince. The learned professor especially notices C. jiana as highly illustrative of this phenomenon, the inter- abdominal space being in this case very large, and the currents of the nutritive fluid, with its suspended spherical globules, being easily discernible through the transparent integu- ments. Mr. Bowerbank has favoured me with an account of some observations made by him on the circulation in the common tegumentary mass of Botryllus. Under the microscope, the more transparent portion of the test ex- hibited a reticulated arrangement of sangui- ferous channels or vessels ; perhaps the true " marginal vessels " of Savigny ; each mesh, formed by the anastomosing currents, being occupied by one of the star-like " systems" of animals. No communication could be traced between the circulation and that of the ani- mals themselves ; the former appearing to be analogous to the peculiar stem-circulation of the polypifera, to which also the circulation of the nutrient fluid in the budless stems of Pcrophora, noticed by Mr. Lister, vide supra, has reference. Embryogcncsis of the Hotryllidce.—In the de- velopment of the ova of the compound Asci- dians, there are certain striking differences from the conditions that take place during the em- bryo-genesis of the Ascidiadcc. These, however, are chiefly confined to the composition of the egg, the formation of the Blastoderm, the mode of growth of the caudal appendage, the organs of vision, and the anterior appendages. From the elaborate observations of this family, given by Professor Milne-Edwards in his Paper before referred to *, it appears that the ova of several species of the Polycliuina are, whilst still enclosed in the ovary, and before that their development is much ad- vanced, of an ellipsoid form, and are com- posed of a very thin external membrane, a subgelatinous whitish and granular inner mass, and a minute central vesicle filled with a watery fluid. The internal vesicle is the vesicle of Purkin je, or the proligerous vesicle ; the granular substance surrounding the ve- sicle is the imperfect vitellus, the vitelline membrane being the external envelope. Whilst these ova are still enclosed in the upper part of the post-abdomen, they grow rapidly and become spherical. But the most remarkable change that takes place consists in the colour of the vitellus, which is at first a pale, and afterwards a deep yellow. The vesicle of Purkinje is still visible at the com- mencement of this period of the development, but it soon disappears, and there then appeal s on the surface of the vitellus a nebulose spot of pale yellow, which appears to be the blasto- derm or proligerous layer destined to become the embryo of the young Ascidian. The ova arrive in the cloaca, and sometimes are even lodged in the lateral portions of the thoracic chamber, without having undergone any other appreciable modification. M. Milne- Edwards considers it probable that the fecun- dation of the ova takes place in the interior of this cavity. They are here brought into contact with the spermatozoa, and very shortly after having arrived here, they exhibit evi- dences of active internal changes. The granules composing the vitelline mass become grouped into clusters, forming them- selves, as it were, into balls, and giving the surface an embossed or mulberry-like aspect. At the same time there is formed between the yolk and the external membrane of the ovum, a gelatinous, transparent, and nearly colourless layer, which apparently becomes the external tunic or test of the young animal. * Observations sur les Ascidies composees. 4i 3