TEETH. 875 of the transverse over the vertical diameter may be traced in the molar teeth of different fishes, and sometimes in those of the same individual, as in Labrus (fig. 564.), until the cylindrical form is exchanged for that of the depressed plate. Such dental plates (denies lamelMormes) may be found, not only circular, but elliptical, oval, semilunar, sigmoid, oblong, or even square, hexagonal, pentagonal, or tri- angular ; and the grinding surface may present various and beautiful kinds of sculpturing. The broadest and thinnest lamelliform teeth are those that form the complex grinding tubercle of the Diodon.* The front teeth of the Flounder and Sargus present the form of compressed plates, at least in the crown, and are true denies incisivi. Numerous wedge- shaped dental plates (denies cuneati) are set vertically in the upper pharyngeal bones of the Parrot-fish (Scants, fig. 565.). A thin Fig. 505. Superior pharyngeal bones and teeth (Scants). lamella, slightly curved like a finger-nail, is the singular form of tooth in an extinct genus of fishes, which I have thence called Petalodus. Sometimes the incisive form of tooth is notched in the middle of the cutting edge, as in Sargus unimaculatus. Sometimes the edge of the crown is trilobate (Aplodactylus, fig. 566.). Fig. 566. Front teeth o f Aplodactylus. Sometimes it is made qninquelobate by a double notch on each side of the large middle lobe (Buops). In the formidable Sea-pike t Odontography, pi. 38, fig. 2; and art. Pisces, Vol. III. p 980,^. 617. (Sphyrcena Barracuda) the crown of each tooth, large and small, is produced into a compressed and sharp point, and resembles a lancet. Sometimes the edges of such lancet- shaped teeth are finely serrated, as in Priodon, and the great Sharks of the genus Carcharias, the fossil teeth of which indicate a species (Carch. Megalodon) sixty or seventy feet in length. The lancetted form is exchanged for the stronger spear-shaped tooth in the Sharks of the genus Lamna ; and in the allied great ex- tinct OloduSj as in the small Porbeagle, simi- larly shaped, but stronger, piercing and cut- ting teeth were complicated by one or more accessory compressed cusps on each side their base, like the Malay crease. With respect to situation, the teeth, in Sharks and Rays, are limited to the bones (maxillary and mandibular), which form the anterior aperture of the mouth : in the Carp ami other Cyprinoids the teeth are confined to the bones (pharyngeal and basi-occipital) which circumscribe the posterior aperture of the mouth. The Wrasses (Labrus) and the Parrot-fishes (Scarus) have teeth on the pre-maxillary and pre-mandibular, as well as on the upper and lower pharyngeals ; both the anterior and posterior apertures of the mouth being thus provided with instruments for seizing, dividing, or comminuting the food, the grinders being situated at the pha- rynx. In most fishes teeth are developed also in the intermediate parts of the oral cavity, as on the palatines, the vomer, the hyoid bones, the branchial arches; and, though less commonly, on the pterygoids, the entopterygoids, the sphenoids, and even on the nasal bone (fig. 560, c). It is very rare to find teeth developed on the true superior maxillary bones ; but the Herring and Salmon tribes, some of the Ganoid Fishes, and the great Sudis, are examples of this approach to the higher Vertebrata. Among the anoma- lous positions of teeth may be cited, besides the occipital alveolus of the Carp *, the mar- ginal alveoli of the prolonged, depressed, well ossified rostrum of the Saw-fish, Pristis. In the Lampreys and in Hclostomus (an os- seous fish), most of the teeth are attached to the lips. Lastly, it is peculiar to the class Pisces, amongst Vertebrata, to offer examples of teeth developed in the median line of the mouth, as in the palate of the Myxines (Jig. 559, a.) ; or crossing the symphysis of the jaw, as in Notidanus, Scymnus, and jMyliobatcs. Nor is the mode less varied than the place of attachment. The teeth of Lopkius, Pee- cilia, Anableps, are always moveable. In most fishes they are anchylosed to the jaws by continuous ossification from the base of the dental pulp; the histological transition being more or less gradual from the structure of the tooth to that of the bone. Sometimes we find, not the base, but one side of the tooth anchylosed to the alveolar border of the jaw; and the teeth oppose each other by * Odontography, pi. 8; and art. Pisces, "Vol. III., p. 980, fig. 518.