1431 VESICULyE SEMINALES. irregular columns and grooves, more marked in their upper part, and deficient at the lower. On their outer anil anterior aspect is a pe- culiar muscle, arising from their neck and .middle portion, and spreading out over their upper part, which can contract their cavity and expel their contents. Their ducts join the vasa deferentia beneath their ampullated portion noticed below. In the boar they each consist of a great number of lobes and lobules arranged around, and communicating with, a small central canal, which opens on the veru- montanmn, near the vas deferens. It may not be out of place here to mention several remarkable peculiarities in the structure of the vasa deferentia, when they arrive at the back of the bladder, in several animals. In man this part of them is dilated anil sinuous, and generally contains a fluid very similar to that found in the vesicuke. In the horse this part of the ducts is extremely thickened by the occurrence of numerous glandular cellules in its walls. These cellules contain a thick mucus. Much the same condition is met with in the bull. In the elephant each vas deferens, when it arrives at this part, enlarges into a very large cavity, which it is evident may readily, and no doubt does really, fulfil the function indicated by the words vesiculaa seminales. Function. — With regard to the function of these organs, I am able to come to little more than a confimation of the negative con- clusion of Hunter, that they are not reservoirs of semen. Hunter's positive conclusion that they form part of the generative apparatus, is pretty clearly proved. I proceed to offer the evi- dence from which these two conclusions are arrived at. 1st. They arc not reservoirs of semen. That they were receptacles into which the semen might regurgitate and be stored up ready for emission, was doubtless suggested by their con- nection with the vasa deferentia in the human subject, so like the relation of the gall bladder to the hepatic duct. A very obvious objection to this is that, as we have seen, the same relation does not occur in the majority of animals ; but the difficulty of proving the identity of the sacs called vesiculae in other animals, diminishes very much the force of this ob- jection ; and even if a homological identity were proved, still numerous caveats warn us not therefrom to infer their functional identity. It is moreover extremely easy to conceive the possibility of the regurgitation of semen into the vesiculae, where the two ducts have an out- let, though merely an outlet, in common. ( In such cases they join just in the act, so to speak, of debouching.) And it is far from impossible to conceive the regurgitation of semen even when the outlets are distinct, especially in some instances. In the guinea- pig, for example, the outlets of the vasa defe- rentia, vesiculae seminales, and prostatic ducts, are surrounded by—occur in the bottom of—- a little spout, of about a line in diameter, which projects about half a line into the ure- thra, slanting towards the outlet. Another objection to their being reservoirs of semen is that the fluid found in them is extremely different from that found in the vasa de- ferentia, as observed by Hunter, in colour, consistence, and smell ; but that they should secrete a mucus of their own, is only pa- rallel with what we know to be the case in the gall bladder; and that admixture with this mucus should considerably alter the character of the semen, is extremely pro- bable. To a microscopic examination of the contents of the vesicula1, we naturally look for a solution of this question, now that we know the extremely characteristic microscopic appearance of semen —Are spermatozoa found in it? Miiller says " That the vesiculae seminales are really receptacles of semen, is beyond a doubt, since spermatic animalcules have been discovered in their contents in the human subject after death." * To the fact, that spermatozoa are occasionally found in the contents of the vesiculae, I can add my testimony ; but I am compelled by other facts to dissent from the conclusion at which Miiller arrives. To infer that the proper function of the vesiculae is to serve as re- servoirs of semen, because spermatozoa " have been" found in them after death, is a noil sequitur. Spermatozoa may often be found in the urethra, and I have found them in the .urinary bladder. These restless little entities often wriggle themselves into organs where their presence is far from usual or normal. Even after death they may be forced into the the vesiculae by the violence unavoidable in removing the parts for examination. The question is, are they usually found in the contents ot the vesiculae, and that in large numbers? To answer this question I thank- fully avail myself of the more extensive obser- vations of my friend, Mr. J. Quekett, who carefully examined the subject some years ago. He tells me that the presence of sper- matozoa in the human vesicuioe is not very frequent, even when the sacs are very dis- tended by their contents ; and that when they are present, it is in sparing numbers — in fact, as a few stray ones. This accords per- fectly with the results of my own researches. When I find the vesiculae seminales full to distension with a mucous fluid, and discover, by a microscopic examination, only a few solitary spermatozoa in it, and when I compare this with the crowds of spermatozoa seen in the fluid squeezed from the vas deferens, I cannot believe, even allowing a reasonably broad margin for dilution with mucus, that 1 am ex- amining stored semen. In the lower animals I have never observed a single spermatozoon in the contents of their vesiculae seminales, although I have carefully examined it taken from individuals that had been purposely sub- jected to prolonged sexual excitement un- gratified. My observations, however, have been entirely confined to those brute animals the ducts of whose vesiculae do not join the vasa * Physiology. Translation bv Baly, p. 8184. 4 Y 4