THYMUS GLAND. 1098 a quantity of oily matter as a deposit in the glandular cavities. Fig. 732. Lower end of thymic tube from cluck one week old. Diameter at a 1-15 in. Jtepiilia. — In the class of reptiles much un- certainty has prevailed respecting the existence of a thymus gland ; it has hy some been con- founded with the thyroid, hy others denied to exist at all. The microscope has again in the same skilful hand cleared away the doubt, and rendered it certain that a true thymus is found in almost all reptiles, distinct from, and inde- pendent of, the thyroid. In young specimens of Chelonia there is found, extending upwards on each side along the carotid, or between it and the subclavian, an elongated white or yellowish mass, possessing the characteristic thymic structure, and easily distinguishable by this from the true thyroid, which lies in the median line between the carotids, near their origin. I have repeated Mr. Simon's obser- vation on a tortoise, said to be about a year old, and found in the situation he indicates an organ, which, though having to the naked eye somewhat the appearance of fat, is shown by the microscope to have the characteristic structure of a thymus. The lateral cavities are considerably more developed than in the brid, they are of very various size and some- what irregular, bounded by a distinct limitary membrane, and filled with well formed nu- clei, togother with a quantity of opaque gra- nular-looking matter consisting of minute oily molecules. In Emydosauria the thoracic portions of the thymus are large and of pris- matic shape, they meet on the base of the heart, overlapping the thyroid, and thence ex- tend upwards along the carotid vessels to the base of the skull where they terminate; in the lower part of the neck they diminish somewhat in size, but afterwards continue of uniform diameter. In several Saurians (Lacertidae, Geckos, Chameleons) the thymus resembles that just described, save that the pericardiac por- tion is absent; in adult specimens of others, as Isturius and Scincidas, no thymus has been detected, but a mass of fat exists just above the base of the heart, which may perhaps result from a transformation of the gland. In Ophidia the thymus observes one uii- deviating type of arrangement, it is found lying on each side along the carotid, often not strictly symmetrical, its lobes elongated and sometimes broken into two or more pieces. Most serpents possess a peculiar mass of fat which is developed in connection with the thymus, and often obscures or conceals it; in two specimens of rattlesnakes Mr. Simon found this fat body was absent, but is inclined to believe it exists in those which inhabit the temperate latitudes. The thymus of serpents is supposed by Mr. Simon to be persistent, and to undergo transformation into fat. From the Batrachian reptiles it was natural to expect, that in consequence of the remark- able transformation which some of them un- dergo, and the intermediate condition main- tained by others between reptile and piscine life, some important information would be gained respecting the true relation and import of the thymus. So it has proved ; for in the Frog only a mass of fat is found existing in the adult animal in the situation of a thoracic thymus, the very young animal, however, pre- sents, in the same situation, true thymic struc- ture, and the evidence of a real transformation of the gland, — not a mere replacement of it by fat,—seems more perfect than in the case of the hibernators before referred to. It was now a point of much interest to determine the condition of the thymus in the fish-like batrachian larva before its transformation had occurred ; in none of these was any trace of thymus detected, while in the youngest indi- viduals in whom pulmonary respiration had commenced the " commencement of the or-> gan" was always to be found. Mr. Simon remarks ; " The essential step in reptile me- tamorphosis is a higher developement of the respiratory system : as a part of this pro-