SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 832 may be seen, on which an enclosing mem- brane plainly exists. The cell development just described holds good of the supra-renal capsules of all Ver- tebrata. It is thus of very wide distribution. These cells are designated by the name of globules of circumposition (umhullung&kugeln). The so-called granule-cells, or inflammatory globules, belong to the same class ; as also do the globules of fission which originate from the breaking up of the yolk. And I have also observed that the polyhedral pigment cells of the choroid coat of the eye are formed in the same way. Finally (and of immediate interest in this place), I have found that the cells of many other glands are similarly formed; namely, the cells of the tubular gastric glands, the glands of Lieberkuhn and of the large intestine, the glands of Brunner, and probably also those which occur in the uri- nary tubules of the kidney. It may also be conjectured that the cells of other glands will be found to originate in the same way. By a gradual enlargement these cells of the cortical substance are metamorphosed into gland-vesicles (e, Jig. 542.); so that while in the large gland-vesicles cells and nuclei occur in numbers, the smaller ones contain only a solitary nucleus. These smallest gland-vesicks are no wav distinguishable from the larger cells; they also are cells, and the glandular con- tents are exactly those of the cell, and the membrana propria is identical with the cell membrane. The contrast between these vesicles and cells — a contrast upon which Ecker has laid particular stress — is of little importance. According to this observer, the membrana propria of the vesicle is unchanged by solution of potash, while, on the contrary, the membrane of the cell is dissolved by it. But by a repetition of the experiment one may be assured that it is only a dilute solution which leaves the membrana propria unaffected, and that by a more concentrated solution it is dissolved just as much as the cell-membrane. The difference is thus only quantitative, and is in exact conformity with the gradually increasing hardness of the mem- brane. When fine sections of the medullary sub- stance of the human supra-renal capsule are examined with the aid of the microscope, it is seen to be considerably clearer and more transparent than the cortical substance; a circumstance which essentially depends on the fact, that the fatty granules occur more sparingly in the former than in the latter. In Man, and in most of the other Mammalia, it is rendered very distinguishable from the cor- tical substance by the absence of the gland- vesicles. It is found to consist of a basis of fibrous tissue, which is formed by processes that come off from the sheath of the cortical substance, and in which numerous blood-ves- sels and nerves take their course. In the mass of areolar tissue the pulverulent mole- cules above described are also met with ; and besides these, nuclei and cells in different stages of development. Where accessory supra-renal capsules oc- cur, they contain, according to Ecker, the same vesicles ; of which the larger occupy the outside, and the smaller the inside. But the two kinds of substance are not present; the whole tissue answers to the cortical substance of the real supra-renal capsules, and it has a sometimes clearer, sometimes darker,yellowish appearance. The structure just described obtains with little modification in all the Mammalia. It is true that, at present, only the Carnivora, Ruminantia, Solipeda,and Pachydermata, have been examined. Nevertheless, according to these observations, it is tolerably allowable to generalise concerning all the orders of Mammalia. In the Ox, the brown cortical substance is divided by strong bundles of areolar tissue into lobules. The gland-vesicles exhibit no- thing extraordinary, but, amongst the different constituents of their contents, the fatty gra- nules are much more sparingly present than in man. Gerlach* found the glandular vesicles very distinct in the Sheep. The structure of the supra-renal capsules of the Goat and Pig is identical with that seen in the Ox. In the Horse, the gland-vesicles of the cortical substance altogether correspond with those of the human subject. Here also the smaller and more spherical lie on the ex- terior, while the larger and more oval occupy the interior, and offer the tubular disposition already referred to. But their membrana propria is more delicate than in man. In the young Horse the fatty contents of the gland- vesicles are in very small quantity; while, on the other hand, in older animals, it predo- minates so considerably that it quite conceals all the other contents, and renders their exa- mination very difficult. But the medullary substance in the Horse offers a remarkable distinction from that of the other Mammalia : namely, that it, as well as the cortical substance, contains gland- vesicles. These have a variable shape and size; and are round, oval, elongated, or sometimes curved in the shape of a bow. The contents are the same as usual, only it is much poorer in fat than the cortical substance ; and, on this account, appears much clearer. The supra-renal capsules of the Rodentia and Carnivora possess the greatest quantity of fat, and are therefore the most difficult of examination. Notwithstanding this, the white cortical substance of the Rabbit exhibits the usual ar- rangement : and, besides this, the medullary mass not unfrequently presents small circum- scribed collections of fat. Among the beasts of prey, the Dog and Cat have been examined, and in these the nuclei of the contents are with difficulty discover- able, owing to the innumerable quantity of the fatty molecules. The nuclei are here also granular in the older, vesicular in the younger * Handbuch der Gewebelehre des Menschlitlien Korpers, Mainz, 1849, 2tn Lieforung.