1055 THORAX. antagonise each other. In nature the external intercostals are not continued over to the in- tercartilaginous spaces. Fig. 700. In this model all the ribs are elevated with- out the first bar being drawn up by any ten- sion representing the scalenii muscles. In fact the fulcra are the fixed points ; therefore there are here six fixed points for the tensions to act upon, and hence each row of oblique tensions acts quite independently. This application of force and disposition of the bars representing the ribs is after the manner of that great engine of power the "genou lever." (Vide Potter's Mechanics.) Tensions in the first space (Jig. 700.) act with a greater power in pushing out the body b than do the tensions in the 5th space; but, on the other hand, the motion is less in the 1st than in the 5th space. It will also be seen that these six bars, though moving all equally, will produce an unequal effect upon the body b b, forcing out the lower end more than the upper end. The ribs of man, in the same manner, increase in their length from the 1st to the 8th, and, therefore, by an equal mobility, an unequal protrusion of the sternum is produced, advancing the lower end more than the upper end. We have reason to believe that the mobility of all the ribs is the same, and that it is by their different lengths that the different degrees of protrusion of the anterior part of the thorax may be accounted for. Having investigated the effect of artificial tensions acting on bars made to represent the ribs, we can now return to the consider- ation of the action of the direct respiratory muscles. Actionof the intercostal muscles (resumed).— The intercostales exlerni are all elevators of the ribs. Inspiratory muscles. They separate the ribs in the act, and they can do this indepen- dently of any other muscle fixing the first rib. The intercostales intend have a double action. All those portions between the ribs depress the ribs and are expiratory muscles; they also approximate the ribs and in every way an- tagonise the external intercostal muscles. Those portions between the costal cartilages are elevators of the cartilages, and associates with the external intercostals, and, thence, in- spiratory muscles. These muscles also can act independently of any other muscle fixing the first or last rib. The intercostal muscles being antagonists, they yield to each other, the same as any other flexor yields to an extensor muscle. We possess a perfect and definite command over the ribs, and can stop their respiratory movements at any stage of breathing, more readily than we can those of the diaphragm. It is necessary to healthy breathing that we should raise all the ribs ; they are there- fore all mobile, and all their intercostal spaces are increased in their perpendicular distance during inspiration, and diminished during ex- piration. II. Levatorcs costarum (Lcvatores breviores costarum, Alb.).—These are narrow, tendinous, and fleshy fasciculi (Jig. 672.) covering the pos- terior end of the rib, and extending obliquely downwards and forwards, in the same di- rection as the external intercostals. Their superior attachment is to the extremities of the transverse processes of the dorsal ver- tebrae ; their inferior to the margins of the ribs between their angles and tubercles. These fibres spread out and become flat at their insertion. Each rib receives one from the vertebra next above; there are therefore twelve muscles on each side ; and that for the first rib is derived from the last cervical vertebra. The inferior muscles of this series divide into two parts ; one of which is distri- buted as above stated ; but the other, consist- ing of longer fibres, passes over one rib and te-r minates on the second below ; and thus each of the lower ribs receives muscular fibres from the transverse processes of two vertebras. The long bands have been described as separate muscles under the name levatores longiores costarum (Albinus). Action. —The same as the external inter- costals. Elevators of the ribs and inspi- ratory muscles. Acting directly upon their fulcra, the transverse processes of the ver- tebra;. III. Triangularis sterni (Sterno-costalis, Ver- heyen). — A thin flat plane of muscular and tendinous fibres (Jig. 674.) placed within the thorax, immediately behind the costal carti- lages. This muscle is attached to the inner surface of the ensiform cartilage, lower part of the sternum, and the cartilages of the lower true ribs. From these origins its fibres pass laterally along the inner walls of the thorax, diverging upwards, horizontally, and down- wards, and are attached by digitations (which give to the outer margin a serrated appear- ance) into the cartilages, lower border, and inner surface, of each of the true ribs, from the 5th to the 2nd inclusive. Action. — This muscle varies considerably in the extent and points of its attachment in different bodies, and even in the opposite sides of the same body. Hence, it aids in drawing down and drawing up (according to the di-