TERATOLOGY. in some sorts of double monsters, male. 3. In a definite proportion between the species of the animals, and the most frequent monstrosities in them. Cyclopes, for instance, especially with a snout,occur most frequently in swine ; double monsters in man. 4. In the constant form of monsters, even amongst the most heteroge- neous animals. Cyclopia, double monsters, acrania, have in Birds precisely the same cha- racters as in the Mammalia. 5. In the greater predisposition to monstrosity among some animals. This is greater among domestic than among wild animals; greater among the more perfect, than among the less perfect; three-fourths of the monstrosities occur among Mammalia, one- fourth among Birds (J. Geoffroy St. Hi- laire). They happen seldom among Reptilia, still less frequently among Fishes, Mollusca, Articulata, and Radiata. From these premises the consequence is easily derived, that monstrosities do not take place by chance, and therefore do not by any means deserve the so very general appellation of caprices of nature (lusus nalurce). The result of this is, that they often present a quantitative antithesis, according to what Geotfroy St. Hilaire denominates loi de ba- lanconent. According to this law, the ex- cessive developement of one part of the body is often connected with checked formation of another. To anencepha/ia, cyclopia-, spina bifida, are often joined fingers and toes in ex- cessive number ; to sireno-melia superfluous vertebrae and ribs ; and frequently there occur in double monsters malformations of the head. Meckel saw, in one single instance, this an- tithesis extend itself over different children of one and the same mother. A girl had on each extremity a superfluous digit, and one hand of her sister wanted four fingers, being the number of digits which her sister had in excess, reckoning the four extremities together. I have now arrived to the classification of monstrosities ; but in order to prevent all unnecessary waste of time, I shall avoid entering into a full critical examination of the systems propounded by Licetus, Huber, Wigtel, Malacarne, Buffon.Blumenbach, Brcs- chet, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Gurlt, Otto, and Bischoff. Concerning these I refer to Bis- choft'*, from whom Rokitansky has chiefly borrowed what he gives in his manual. Ac- cording to my conviction, no suitable clas- sification of monstrosities can be given, and the efforts employed to this end may be re- garded as failures. I confine myself, therefore, to a simple grouping, taking embryogenesis as my basis, without presuming on any further classification, and I thus avoid a barbarous nomenclature, which, in my opinion, is at- tended with no advantage. My object is simply to make the doctrine of malformations useful for physiology and for medical practice, nearly in the same manner as was done, almost * Entwickelungs Geschiehte mit besondere Be- rilcksichtigung tier Missbildungen, in K. Wagner Handwiirterbueh d. Physiologie, B. i. S. 887. simultaneously with me, by the excellent F. A. von Amnion.* Malformations of the Ovum. 1. Mo/a botryoides or hydatica, — Hydromctra aquatica,—is a degeneration of the chorion into vesicles of different sizes, filled with a serous liquor, which were erroneously taken for hy- datids. They cover the surface of the en- larged ovum, and are the villi of the chorion, which, as no formation of vessels took place, retained their original vesicular form (Ruysch, Albinus, Sandifort, Cruveilhier, Velpeau). Sometimes a foetus is found in it, which, how- ever, in relation to the ovum may be said to be small. The small embryo most probably dies in the early period of pregnancy, and the degenerated ovum continues to grow till a later period, when it is evacuated. In most cases abortion is the consequence of this condition of the ovum. Sometimes, nevertheless, the pregnancy lasts till the full time (Gregorini), or sometimes longer, as happened in a case observed by Lossius, in which it lasted six years. Sometimes the foetus disappears, and then this degenerated vesicular mass is evacuated alone, with ex- cessive haemorrhage and great pain. This is the last period of what is called false preg- nancy. The vesicles are inclosed in a kind of de- cidua ; they are fixed on pedicles, from which arise other vesicles with smaller stems, so as to give to the whole the appearance of the chorion, in an earlier period of its existence, when the villi still preserve their original vesicular form. The accurate observations of Boeck show that, in most cases, these vesicles contain blood, which sometimes can be dis- placed by pressure from the one to the other vesicle, or is coagulated. The internal sur- face of the membrane which forms the vesicle is smooth, the external interwoven with fibres. A thus degenerated ovum has not the power of bringing the foetus to a state of perfect maturity. The death of the foetus anil mis- carriage are its consequences. Sometimes the Mola botryoides is accompanied by malfor- mation of the foetus ( Valisnieri). From this degeneration ought to be distin- guished : 1st. The vesicular degeneration of the placenta, when retained after a natural parturition in the womb (Gregorini) ; 2nd. The Polypi fugaces or vesiculates evacuated in the anni climacterici by elderly women (Lev- ret) ; 3rd. Those after suppressed menstrua- tion in unpregnant women (Schleierbach, Watson, Sporing, Lisfranc). As I have no ob- servations of my own of any of these cases, 1 dare not pronounce any opinion about the affinity of these vesicles to the Mola botryoides. 2. Separation of the placenta into lobes or cotyledons. — This is without doubt to be attributed to an arrest at a lower degree of developement, and it offers some resemblance * Die atigeborenen Chirurgischen Kranklieiten des Mensclieii. Berlin, 1842.