VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1302 being or a single pair." Thus it appears that, in one mode or another, the fundamental idea of the term, among all those naturalists who admit the " permanence of species," con- nects itself with the notion of community of descent. This notion, as M. De Candolle admits, is hypothetical, so far at least as its particular applications are concerned ; since in no one case have we the power either of looking back to the epoch of the first pro- duction of a species, or of tracing downwards the whole line of descent from any original pair. Still, as it is the only definition which conveys the essence of what naturalists or- dinarily mean by species, we shall accept it as the basis of our further inquiries ; and shall now point out the mode, in which it is brought into application in the actual study of natural history. We will suppose the Zoologist to have two new specimens of shells or insects placed before him, or the Botanist to be examining two new specimens of plants. If the con- formity between the two is so extremely close, that the differences do not exceed the limits of variation which are commonly seen to prevail in the offspring of a common parentage, he places them in the same species ; because he considers that each may produce a form resembling the other, or may have been pro- duced by it, so that there is no sufficient ground for assigning to the two a distinct ancestry. But supposing that the differences should be more strongly marked, and the naturalist should be tempted to assign dif- ferent specific names to his two shells, or insects, or plants : in what way is he to diag- nose their similarity or diversity of origin ? He forms his judgment, in the first place, by the nature of the characteristic difference ; for this may be of such a kind, that its variability could not be reasonably suspected. Yet this is not a point on which much stress can be laid, when it stands alone; for although in many groups there are certain characters which present such constancy, that a pre- sumption of specific diversity may be fairly entertained if these should exhibit well-marked differences, yet there are too many exceptions to allow such differences to be unhesitatingly admitted as valid specific characters. They may arise, in fact, from three sets of causes; namely, differences in age and degree of de- velopment, differences in the conditions under which the individuals have existed, and tend- ency to spontaneous variation inherent in the race. It is necessary, therefore, to ex- clude each of these possible sources of error, before the specific diversity of our two objects can be established. 1. It is now universally admitted that the cases are extremely numerous, in which diver- sities of age have led to the establishment of species which have no existence in nature ; the forms thus distinguished being those of the same species in different grades of de- velopment. The more our knowledge of the history of the lower tribes of animals in- creases, the ffiore is it found that metamor- phosis is with them the rule, and not the ex- ception ; so that the cases seem comparatively rare, in which an invertebrated animal at its emersion from the egg possesses the cha- racters that serve to distinguish it in its adult condition. And just as the larva, pupa, and imago states of any insect, are all compre- hended in a complete account of the species, so must we rank the extraordinary diversities of form presented by the Medusa or the Balani, in the early period of their lives, as coming within the limits of their specific definitions. It is obvious that this source of fallacy can only be completely avoided, when we have obtained an acquaintance with the whole his- tory of the life of any individual, from its com- mencement to its dissolution, and are thus enabled to say positively what are, and what are not, alterations producible by age. Where this knowledge cannot be acquired, the only safe basis on which the naturalist can pro- ceed, is that which is derived from a know- ledge of these phenomena as presented in the most nearly allied forms; and yet this often fails, as in the case of the Astacus jiuvia- tilis (river cray-fish), and Gecarcinus (land crab), which undergo no change that can be called a metamorphosis, notwithstanding that in all other Macrourous and Brachyourous Decapods yet observed, a real metamorphosis takes place. Even in the case of extinct species, the history of whose life can never become known to us by any other means than by the preservation of their remains in different stages of growth, the careful com- parison of a sufficient series of these remains will sometimes establish a strong probability, if not a positive certainty, as to their mutual relationship : thus, M. Barrande, of Prague, has succeeded in showing that it is next to certain that no fewer than eighteen forms of Trilobites, which have been described as dis- tinct species and ranked under ten different genera, are really the successive forms of one and the same species; the differences which they present both in size and conformation being analogous to those that we see in the existing tribes most nearly allied to them, and the whole series constituting one con- tinuous succession. Instances in which new species have been erected among the higher classes of animals, especially among Birds, for the reception of individuals whose differences were only seasonal, have been so frequently recorded, that it is sufficient here to mention them. It is obvious that such errors can only be corrected by a knowledge of the seasonal changes which the species is liable to undergo. Of this source of difficulty in the discrimination of species, we need take no account in our future inquiries ; for although, in the Orang and Chimpanzee, the alteration in the conformation of the cranium which takes place at the period of second dentition, is so very decided, that it formerly gave rise to much confusion, which has only disap- peared before a fuller knowledge of the history of these animals, yet no change of such magnitude occurs in Man; and of the