1275 URINE. received into the system must, in many cases, be equal or superior to that of the phosphoric acid contained in the aliments. According to the analysis of human urine made by Berze- lius and Lehmann, the amount of the sul- phates present in urine is nearly double that of all the soluble phosphates together. Hic- ronymi found the amount of sulphate of potass contained in the urine of the tiger, the lion, and the leopard, compared with that of the phosphates, to be as 1 to 7t. It can be distinctly and positively proved that these salts have not been partaken of in such pro- portions. But we now know the origin of the greatest portion of the sulphuric acid con- tained in the urine; this acid has entered the organism with the food, not in the form of a sulphate, but as sulphur. " Gluten *, vegetable casein, flesh, albumen, fibrin, and the cartilages and bones, contain sulphur in a form quite different from the oxygen compounds of this substance. This sulphur is separated as sulphuretted hydrogen during the putrefaction of these substances ; it combines with the alkalies, operating upon these animal substances, and may be ob- tained from such combinations in the form of sulphuretted hydrogen by means of stronger acids. " Now, we know from the experiments of Wdhler, that the soluble sulphurets become oxidised in the organism; and that thus, for instance, sulphuret of potassium becomes con- verted into sulphate of potass ; and it is there- fore unquestionable that the sulphur of the constituents of the blood, derived from the aliments, or, what comes to the same point, the sulphur of the transformed tissues be- comes finally converted into sulphuric acid by the oxygen absorbed in the process of respiration, and thus that in the urine it must appear in the form of sulphates ; and from this cause the original amount of these salts contained in the aliments becomes increased. The alkaline base which we find in the urine, in combination with this sulphuric acid, is supplied by the soluble alkaline phosphates; and the latter, in consequence of the loss of part of this base, are converted into acid salts. " By these considerations and views re- specting the cause of the acid reaction of urine, 1 have been induced to prepare an arti- ficial urine, which possesses the properties of natural urine, even although sulphuric acid be altogether excluded. " If 40 grains of dry phosphate of soda (or 90 grains of the crystallised salt, P O- 2 {Na O H O ^ "^l") ^e dissolved m one pound of water, a fluid will be obtained having an alkaline reaction ; if to this fluid we add 15 grains of uric acid and 15 grains of hippuric acid, and the mixture is heated, both acids * Dietrich (in the laboratory of Giessen) has examined gluten with regard to its amount of sul- phur; he found wheat-gluten to contain from 0-033 per cent, to 0-035 per cent, of sulphur, exactly the same proportion as is contained in albumen or fibrin. will completely dissolve, imparting a strong acid reaction to the fluid. The solution thus prepared does not deposit a trace of uric acid at a temperature from 37° to38° (=98°, 100° Fahrenheit = the heat of the blood); nay.it is even only several hours after complete re- frigeration that a sediment is formed, consist- ing of uric acid containing soda : this sediment is of an analogous form to that deposited by natural urine after standing at rest for a long time. Upon collecting this sediment, in one of my experiments, after the lapse of twenty- four hours, I found that it weighed 7> grains, so that there remained still in solution 22-J- grains of the organic acids. Dilute mineral acids produce immediately, in the fluids fil- tered oft' from the sediment, a precipitate of uric acid, " Proust, Prout, and all the other chemists who examined the urine previous to, or about the same period as, Berzelius, ascribed its acid reaction to the uric acid or phosphoric acid; hippuric acid was not known as a con- stant attendant upon uric acid. " It follows, from all we have hitherto stated, that the acid nature of the urine of carnivorous animals, as well as that of man, depends upon the nature of the bases par- taken of in the aliments, and upon the parti- cular form of their combinations. In the flesh, blood, and other parts of animals, as well as in the grains of the cereal and legu- minous plants, there exists no free alkali. The alkali which these substances contain is in- variably combined with phosphoric acid ; the acids formed in the organism by the vital process, namely, sulphuric acid, hippuric acid, anil uric acid, share the alkali amongst them ; and this, of course, must give rise to the liberation of a certain amount of phosphoric acid, or, what comes to the same point, to the formation of a certain amount of acid phos- phates of soda, lime, and magnesia. The proportional amount of the liberated phos- piioric acid varies with the temperature ; at a higher temperature the phosphate of soda dissolves a larger amount of uric acid and hippuric acid than at a lower temperature—■ at from 37° to 38° more than at 15°. It is owing to this that urine, upon refrigeration, sometimes deposits uric acid, or urate of soda in a crystalline state, which, of course, can only take place by the uric acid, at a lower temperature, restoring to the phosphoric acid the soda or potass which, at a higher temper- ature, it had withdrawn from it. At the common temperature phosphoric acid decom- poses urate of soda, whilst, at a higher tem- perature, uric acid decomposes phosphate of soda. When urine, containing uric acid, and manifesting an acid reaction, forms no sedi- ment upon cooling, it shows that the amount of the phosphoric acid and that of the uric acid exactly balance each other with regard to their affinity for soda. Had there been pre- sent a larger proportion of uric acid, this would have separated upon cooling ; whilst, on the other hand, the presence of a prepon- derating proportion of phosphoric acid would