VESICULA PROSTATICA. 1 124 take their different forms, and with these their different destinies ? Careful contem- plation leads us to regard the Weberian organ as one of this class of structures. As was previously mentioned, Weber had pointed out, that by its situation and connection with the tiro-genital canal, and very frequently (as in the beaver) by its form, it corresponds so completely to the uterus of the female mam- malia, that there is every reason for regarding it as its morphological equivalent in the male individual. According to this view, the difference be- tween the Weberian organ and the uterus is limited to that of a lesser or greater degree of development. In the female individual it becomes the receptacle of the embryo. The physiological task which it thereby under- takes demands a complete development, while in the male individual, in whom it has not such an important functional import, and is only occasionally applied to this or that sub- ordinate purpose, it undergoes a check, or even retrogrades in development. The dif- ferent degree of this checked or retrograde metamorphosis, depending on its different application, conditionates the difference of its anatomical development. In many male in- dividuals it completely disappears ; in others it remains an useless relic of a rudimentary character, while in others it assumes a more considerable size and development. The form of the receptacle of the embryo, •which, despite many varieties, is in general very constant, is connected with its functional import. But the Weberian organ is devoid of so specific an object. What wonder, then, that we find it more freely submitted to the play of the formative process, and that its form and development are even subject to manifold varieties in particular individuals? The theory of Weber at once gives us a sufficient explanation of the different anato- mical circumstances of this notable organ ; and in like manner it affords a new and secure basis for the efforts of anatomists to deter- mine the analogy — i. e. the common plan of structure—of the male and female organs. Ever since Aristotle and Galen, vain at- tempts have been made to discover an indica- tion of the uterus in the male of the Mam- malia; and sometimes this structure, sometimes that—now the vesicula seminalis, and now the prostate — has been thus regarded. The explanation given by Weber offers the first satisfactory adjustment, and at the same time promises a sufficient interpretation of the nu- merous hermaphrodite misdevelopments, or of androgyny. Weber even hints at this (and in- dependently of him Bergmann also), while he subjects the well-known case of Ackermann* to a morphological analysis f, although only with the immediate intention of further sup- porting his explanation of the vesicula pro- statica. He came to the conclusion that the * Infantis androgyni historia et iconographia, Jena?, 1805. See also Art. Hermaphroditism, Vol. II. p. 709. * Zusiitze, loc, cit. S. 13. part described by Ackermann as a cystoid uterus, the opening of which into the uro- genital canal was situated close to the efferent apertures of the vasa deferentia, was due solely to a disproportionate enlargement of the vesicula prostatica. Under such circumstances it is easily ex- plicable why the theory of Weber has re- ceived a very general assent. Huschke, Theile, Hausmann, Bergmann, Leydig, and the author in Germany, Duvernoy in France, and Adams in England, have all accepted it, and have sought to give it further stability by new re- searches. And Leydig* has further shown that the type of the glands imbedded in the wall of the Weberian body completely cor- responds with that of the uterine glands in the respective female animals. H. Meckel-)- only has expressed himself against the interpretation of Weber, although he so far agrees with it as also to see in the vesicula prostatica a rudimentary structure of chiefly morphological import ; but he explains it as being the analogue, not of the uterus, but rather of the vagina. The chief support which he adduces of this theory is the relation of the Weberian organ to the vasa deferentia and the urethra. It is well known that the older anatomists regarded the vasa deferentia as the structures which, in the female individual, discharge the functions of the Fallopian tubes. Even Weber partook of this opinion, although Midler J had already shown the morphological differ- ences of the two in birds, and Rathke§ in snakes. That this holds good of Mammalia was first maintained by Bergmann || and the author of this article \, on the ground of their comparative researches; and it was afterwards reduced to certainty by the observations of Kobelt** on the development of the genitals in the human subject. As Miiller and Rathke had previously found, Kobelt showed that, at an early date of embr3 onic life, tubes and seminal ducts exist simultaneously in all in- dividuals, but that, in the different sexes, only one of these canals attained a complete development. If the seminal and Fallopian tubes were identical structures, the Weberian theory of the morphological nature of the vesicula pro- statica could not possibly be correct; for, in that case, the former of these must constantly open into the upper end of the vesicula?, or into its two cornua respectively, which is never the case. But now that we know the difference of these two canals, the anatomical arrangement of the vasa deferentia and Weberian organ no longer constitutes an ob- jection against the explanation of the latter as the uterus. * Opus cit. S. 49. | Zur Morphologie, &c, S. 47. j Bildungsgesch'ichte derGenitalien. Bonn, 1830. § Entwickelungsgesckichte der Natter, S. 212. Konigsberg, 1839. || Op. cit. in Wagner's Handwortertmch. f Zur Anatomic, &c., S. 90. ** Der Nebeneierstock des Weibes. Heidelberg, 1847.