1350 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. not to be regarded as Arian, but as Mon- golian ; and the introduction of the Sanscrit language was accomplished by an invading branch of the Arian stock, the only trace of which is to be found in the distinctness of the Brahminical portion of the Hindoo popu- lation, in whose religious and other writings the Sanscrit language is still preserved. Tn the Asiatic group of Indo-Germanic nations, the same general type of conforma- tion presents itself as in the European : there is, however, a much greater variety of com- plexion. The mountaineers, even within the tropics, are often as fair as Europeans; whilst those who live in the level plains, and are ex- posed to the full heat of the torrid zone, may be of a very deep brown or even black hue. The variety of complexion shown among the Hindoos, even in the Brahminical caste, has been already adverted to. There is but little to remind us of the Mongolian type in the countenances of the Hindoos, which are often remarkable for symmetrical beauty, that only want a more intellectual expression to render them extremely striking ; some traces of it, however, may perhaps be found in the rather prominent zygomatic arches (Jig. 828); Fig. 828. Hindoo Female of Pondicherry. {From a portrait in M. Geringer's " L'lnde Francaise") but this is a character which not unfrequently shows itself strongly in the Arian races (e.g. the Celts) ; and the cranial part of the skull presents no approach to the pyramidal type, being often very regularly elliptical. Among the southern inhabitants of the peninsula, however, a much greater departure from the Caucasian type presents itself; for not only is the colour darker, but the cheek bones are more prominent, the hair coarse, scanty, and straight, the nose flattened; and sometimes the lips are very thick, and the jaws project, so that we have indications of a transition towards both the pyramidal and the progna- thous types. The south-western portion of Asia is occu- pied by the Arabs and other Semitic races, which, as will be presently explained, form the transition between the proper Asiatic and pro- per African nations. The whole remainder of the vast Asiatic continent is occupied by nations which present a sufficiently close approximation to each other, either in physical characters or in lan- guage, or in both, to justify their association in one extensive group, under the name of Mbngolidce. The typical character of this great family of nations, as seen in a Mongolian or a Tungus from Central Asia, consists in the pyramidal form of the skull (Jig. 811. et seq.), with the broad flat face and prominent cheek-bones, and its antero-posterior diameter scarcely exceeding the parietal; the nose is flat, neither arched nor aquiline; the eyes drawn upwardsat their outer angle (fig. 814.); the skin of a swarthy yellow ; the hair straight and scanty, and the beard deficient; and the stature undersized. These characters are softened down in many members of the group ; and may even be entirely wanting, as for in- stance, in the Circassians and Georgians, (p. 1328.), termed by Dr. Latham the Dioscurian Mongolidte. Still they are very extensively distributed ; and there is by no means the same amount of variation in complexion, under the influence of temperature, that is seen in the Indo-Germanic races. The following, accord- ing to Dr. Latham, are the principal groups into which the Asiatic nations may be ar- ranged : — 1. The Seriform stock, distributed over China, Thibet, the Indo-Chinese penin- sula, and the base of the Himalayan range of mountains ; their configuration is Mongolian, softened down (fig. 829.) ; their languages Fig. 829. Sftntl of a Chinese Ludrone. (From a specimen in the Museum o f the Royal College of Surgeons.} are aptotic, or with only the rudiments of an inflexion ; and they thus preserve more than