1378 VEIN. in the middle of the vein, and are there united by the contact of their margins ; and so accurate is the adaptation, that neither by the eye, nor by any other means, can the slightest chink along the line of contact be perceived. But if the probe be now intro- duced from the extreme towards the more central parts, the valves, like the flood-gates of a river, give way, and are most readily pushed aside."* Valves exist in two different situations ; namely, at the orifices of lesser veins where they join the trunks which they supply, and in the canals of veins, arranged at various points. Fig. 863. Diagram exhibiting different forms of Valves. a, valve placed at the orifice of the renal vein in the sheep, seen in face; a', the same in ideal section; the ordinary semilunar valve from the tube of a vein; V, the same in section ; c, imperfect valve at orifice of intercostal vein ; c', section of imperfect valve at orifice of hepatic vein; d, the same in face (the dotted lines in a, c and d correspond to the orifices of the respective veins); e, very imperfect valve; e1, the same in section ; f plan of double valve at orifice of vein ; ft, the same in section ; g, ideal section of small valve and sinus; h, sec- tion of sinus without a valve. At the orifices of veins the valves are either single or double: when single, the free margin always looks towards the heart. In the canals of veins the valves are usually double in the larger, and single in the smaller. It is rare, in the human subject, to find them in threes * Loc. cit. on the same plane, though it has been found both by Morgagni and Haller ; but in the great vessels of the larger mammalia it is common. There are none in the capillaries ; but, accord- ing to Henle, in veins of not more than half a line in diameter, they make their appear- ance. For the purposes of anatomical description a valve may be said to have a body, margins, and cornua. The body of the valve has a cardiac, concave, or proximal face and a convex or distal face. The margins are,—the free, or that which is unattached, and the attached margin. The cornua are the angles formed by the meeting of the two margins, and constitute the extreme lateral boundaries of the valve. Valves differ from each other very con- siderably in form, varying from a mere linear elevation on the inner surface, in which the probe scarcely hitches as it is pushed along, to others which almost form a long isosceles triangle. The outline of the margins deter- mines the form of a valve. Cruveilhier says that the free margin is always straight ; but this is not the fact, though it is always more so than the attached. In the first attempt at a valvular formation there is merely a slight elevation of the inner surface, and the free and attached margins are nearly parallel: these scarcely constitute valves. (Fig. 863. c,e'.) Valves, stdl imperfect but of larger dimen- sions, are found at the orifices of veins, as well as in their canals. When existing in the former situation (and this is applicable to all valves thus placed), their attached margin corres- ponds with the side of the orifice which is furthest from the heart, and the outline of this margin is determined by the form of the vessel's mouth. If the lesser vessel joins the greater at right angles, the opening will be circular, and the attached margin of the valve a semicircle. If, however, the junction be ob- lique, and an acute angle be formed by the two vessels, then the margin attached will be drawn out of the semicircle, so as to form a sort of apex in the centre. The former of these conditions is shown at fig. 863. c, taken from a small valve at the orifice of an inter- costal vein, joining the azygos; and the latter is represented at d, which is a drawing made from a valve at the orifice of an hepatic vein, where it joins the vena cava: c is an ideal section of the same. The dotted line in a,c and d represents, in conjunction with the line of the attached margin of the valve, the orifice of the tributary vein. The next form, in order, and the one which is the most common, is the semi-lunar* valve, as it is ordinarily found in the tube of valved veins,— the attached margin being nearly semi- circular, and the free nearly straight (Jig. 863. b). It was probably of these valves that Haller spoke when he said that the attached margin of valves constitutes a parabolic curve: it may be applicable to some of the semi-lunar, * Pabricius, not inaptly, described them as re- sembling a finger nail, " forma ostiolorum ea est, ut indicia ungueni imitentur."—Loc. cit. p. 151,