TUNICATA. 1223 4 I 4 At each side of the base of the group of ten- tacles, a little prominent lobular process is present. Lastly, the side of the body, opposite to that on which the tail is placed, becomes somewhat strongly embossed near its pos- terior extremity, and towards the space where the above-mentioned black points occur (Jig. 784. n). The ovum ready for exclusion differs ap- parently little from the foregoing state. The two anterior styliform appendages have almost entirely disappeared, and the three obtuse processes are further developed. The trunk is contracted towards its anterior extremity, and the yolk-mass still further condensed at the centre of the ovum. Theexternal membrane of theovum becomes excessively thin, and then breaks and allows the embryo to escape. Generally this ex- clusion takes place in the interior of the cloaca, but sometimes not until the ova have passed out by the anal orifice. However that may be, the young animal, free from its envelopes, soon extends its tail, and swims in the ambient fluid by the aid of its undulatory movements. In its general form the young Ascidian re- sembles somewhat that of a newly born tad- pole (Jig. 78-1. c); but it still more resembles a Cercaria. The trunk or body of the larval Poly- clinum is oval and rather depressed. The whitish tissue of the future integument occupies all the surface, and is considerably developed at the margins ; its substance is granular and apparently subgelatinous ; its consistence is greatest at the surface; and it does not appear to possess a membranous investment. To- wards the centre of the trunk is a large ellip- tical membranous sac, the internal tunic of Milne-Edwards; this is filled with the yellow substance of the vitellus, and is continuous anteriorly with the three tubes dilated at the end, and terminating at the anterior wall of the egg in a sort of sucker. By means of gentle graduated pressure, some of the yolk may be easily made to pass from the principal sac into these appendages, and vice versa ; the little capsule, also, terminating each of these appendages can be made to protrude exter- nally by the same means. At the base of these three processes the vestiges of the others formerly occupying the intervening spaces may be observed. The yellow substance contained in the internal tunic appears to be separated into two portions; the one is clear, and situated near the wall of this sac, and the other, denser and of a deeper tint, occupies the centre. Pos- teriorly a little marginal space, clearer than the neighbouring parts, is also visible, and on one of the sides the above-mentioned minute black spots are visible. The tail is very large, and, like the trunk, is composed of two distinct parts ; the one superficial, colourless, diapha- nous, gelatinous, and much resembling the al- bumen of the eggs of frogs ; the other, central and yellow. This latter part is continuous anteriorly with the central sac of the trunk, and is also composed of a membranous tunic, enclosing a yellow granular and semi-fluid substance. It sometimes appeared to have a central canal. The larvae, after swimming about with an active wriggling motion for a few hours, attach themselves to the surface of a solid body, and, if disturbed from their position, swim about as before until they meet with a similar situation. Their activity having ceased, they become permanently fixed, and are then about the size of the head of a very small pin. They appear to affix themselves to their rest- ing place by means of one of the little suckers with which their anterior extremity is fur- nished. The larva has now lost all power of loco- motion, and quickly undergoes further changes of form. The anterior extremity of the trunk is widened, and the prolongations of the in- ternal tunic quickly disappear. The central portion of the tail becomes at the same time empty, its contents being returned to the cen- tral yolk-mass of the body. The sac or internal tunic enclosing the yolk becomes much con- tracted and spherical; lastly, the yellow matter, which was unequally divided, seems again to be rearranged. The tail, which during the early period of the existence of the larva per- formed so important a part, being the only instrument of locomotion, is now reduced to its gelatinous or tegumentary portion ; and this, after becoming more and more trans- parent, withers, and finally is detached, or falls away in shreds at a more advanced period of the growth of the animal. The trunk, on the other hand, is the seat of important and active changes. The tegumentary portion of the body is much widened, taking an oval out- line, and is visibly augmented in bulk. The interior tunic continues at first to lessen, and becomes quite spherical, and many large patches of a lighter yellow than the rest are apparent, one of which occupies the anterior, and two others the posterior portions of the tunic (Jig. 784. n). M. Milne-Edwards further remarks, that the modifications already noticed ordinarily occupy the space of from ten to twelve hours ; and if the larvae are again examined towards the end of the first day of their sedentary existence, further changes in the interior tunic may be observed. In a speci- men carefully watched by him, the follow- ing changes were noted. Instead of being spherical, the large yellow sac became oval, and its anterior part much thinned. It soon afterwards again became elongated, and a circular contraction divided it into two por- tions (Jig. 784. e). The anterior portion, smaller and lighter coloured than the pos- terior, was rounded in front, and presented at that part a large annular patch of a deep yel- low, vaguely circumscribing a central paler portion. The posterior part was swollen and of a deeper yellow than the anterior, and quite behind there was observable a minute patch of a very clear yellow. This latter spot sub- sequently became the heart, and the annular spot on the other extremity of the body was developed into the thorax of the animal. The following day all these parts grew still more distinct. The anterior portion of the inter-