THORAX. 1016 Fibrous tumours. — A small fibrous tumour is occasionally developed in the areolar tissue of the scrotum. It may acquire the size of the testicle, and being firm and of an oval form, resembles a supernumerary gland. 1 have met with only one case of this form of tumour. Dr. Mott, of the United States, excised an enormous mass from the scrotum of a man about seventy-three years of age. The scrotum was twelve to fifteen times its ordinary bulk, and was filled with tumours of a stony hard- ness, from the size of a nutmeg to that of a large pea. The tumours had all a very white appearance, and the integuments over two or three of the largest, having been ulcerated for upwards of a year, poured forth a foetid discharge, together with a white substance resembling mortar. The disease was upwards of twenty years' duration. I have no doubt this disease was originally of a fibrous cha- racter. The calcareous matter and other changes resemble those occasionally observed in large fibrous tumours of the uterus. A tumour of a similar character and of great size was removed by operation from the scrotum of a man in St. Vincent's hospital, Dublin, by Dr. O'Ferrall* Bibliography.—Anatomy. — De Graaf, DeVir. Organ. Gener. Lugd. Bat. 1668. Monro, Essays and Observations, vol. i. Edinb. 1754; also De Testibus et de Semine in variis Animalibus. Diss. Inaug. Smellie. Thes. Med. ii. 317. 1755. Hunter, W. Me- dical Commentaries, 1762. Warner, An Account of the Testicles, 1774. Palletta, Nova Gubernaculi Testis Hunteriani et Tuniete Vaginalis Descriptio, 1777. Brugnoni, De Testium in Fcetu positu, &c, 1785. John Hunter, A Description of the Situation of the Testis in the Foetus, with its Descent into the Scrotum, (Animal (Economy), 1786. Seller, Observ. de Testiculorum ex Abdomine in Scrotum descensu, Lepsia;, 1817. Wilson, Lectures on the Urinary and Genital Organs, 1821. Sir Astley Cooper, Observa- tions on the Structure of the Testis, 4to., 1830. Lauth, Memoir de la Societe d'Hist. Nat. de Stras- bourg,, t. i. 1830. Krause, Midler, Archiv. fur An- atomic, 1837. Gulliver, Proceedings of Zoological Society, 1842. Curling, Treatise on the Testis, 1843. E. Huschke, Encyclope'die Anatomique, t. v. Paris, 1845. Morbid Anatomy of the Testicle. — Pott, On Hydrocele and other Diseases of the Testicle, 1767. Bell, B. On Hydrocele and other Diseases of the Testis, Edinb. 1794. Wolf, L. De Sarcocele, Er- lang. 1799. Sir Astley Cooper, Observations on the Diseases of the Testis, 1830. Baring, Ueber den Markschwamm der Hoden, Gotting. 1833. Russell, Observations on the Testicles, 1833. Brodie, Lec- tures on Diseases of the Testicle, Lond. Med. Ga- zette, vol. xiii. 1834. Berard, Journal desConnaiss. Medico-Chirurgic. pour l'annee 1835. Velpeau, Diet, de Med. t. xv. Landouzy, Du Varicocele, Paris, 1838. Curling, Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis, 1843. Maladies des Testicules — Biblio- theque du Me'dicin Practicien, t. iv. Paris, 1846. Tidal (de Cassis), Traite de Pathologie, t. v. 1846. (7*. B. Curling.) THORAX (3wpn£ from Sopho to leap, be- cause in it the heart beats). " The habitation of the breathing parts." — That part of the human body destined to contain the lungs * Dublin Hospital Gazette. Feb. 1845 and heart, and by its movements to maintain the function of respiration. Generally by the term thorax is understood a cavity set apart for the respiratory organs. Such a cavity, however, is not essential to respiration: a respiratory surface only is es- sential. This must exist in every animal, whilst a separate thorax is found perfect only in mammalia. The development of the respiratory surface may take place in three ways. 1st. Either towards the interior of the body, in the form of ramified or sacculated ca- vities ; or, 2ndly. Towards the exterior, in the form of lamellated, ramified, pectinated, tufted, cili- ated, or pinnated processes called " brcunchwe" in which Nature seems to have exhausted all imaginable varieties of form ; and, Srdly. By a system of tubes ramified to ex- treme fineness, either in an especial cavity or thorax, or in a cavity common to these organs and to others destined for the diges- tive function. The movements necessary to respiration, are modified according to the form of the re- spiratory apparatus and the nature of the medium to be respired, whether pure air or air contained in water. In some of the lowest animals, the respira- tory movements are the same as those of loco- motion, as in the monad and other infusorial animalcules. In all animals, even when the respiratory organs are contained in a true thoracic cavity, the frame-work serves other purposes besides that of drawing in and throwing out air ; it gives attachment to the largest muscles of the upper extremity, whe- ther prehensile or locomotive. In man parti- cularly, we find the respiratory muscles con- tribute to such acts as coughing, sucking, sneezing, yawning, sighing, singing, vomiting, as well as the innumerable articulate sounds of language. Distinct respiratory movements, as depen- dent upon alternate contractions and dilata- tions of a thoracic cavity, are most regular, or at least, they have been more noticed, in mammiferous animals. The thoracic cavities of mammiferous animals have much of the mechanism of respiration in common. Thev all possess a vertebral column or spine, and that peculiar frame-work of ribs, together with a sternum, so articulated together as to move in breathing. There is likewise a great similarity of mus- cular arrangement around the thoracic cavity; and consequently the respiratory movements closely resemble each other. Although the boundaries of the thorax are generally the parts which move in respiration, and these are generally composed of vertebras ribs and sternum, yet some animals may have either all of these, or they may lack some of them, or, if present, they may not move in the breathing function. Frogs have a ster- num, but no ribs ; serpents have ribs, but no sternum; tortoises have ribs, vertebra, and