1149 TONGUE. worm, &c.) is very complex in its structure : it consists, first, of an investment of mucous membrane, very thin and extensible, covered, apparently, by a single layer of epithelium, and a good deal of bluish-grey pigment, and underlaid by fibrous tissue disposed at right angles, transversely and longitudinally. When the sheath, thus composed, is cut open, it is seen to contain another fibrous sheath, smooth, dense, white, and shining, the proper sheath of the stilet, which it closely invests, and which smoothly glides in it. Between these two sheaths is a cavity which is occupied, first, by a longitudinal muscle on each side (essentially a hyoglossus), a very fine and slender fascicle, which runs the entire length of the tongue, and retracts it when protruded ; secondly, by a nerve on each side, disposed, when the tongue is retracted, in regular sinuosities, and, when drawn out, about five inches long ; it does not appear to give oft'any branches to the muscle, and does not diminish in size as it advances, so that it is probably distributed to the extremity, and is sensitive ; thirdly, by some cellular tissue loosely connecting the mucous investment with the fibrous sheath of the stilet; fourthly, no doubt, arteries and veins. The proper sheath of the stilet does not contain a canal, but is attached to the surface of the stilet, which glides in it not by its movement on the sheath, but by the move- ment of the parts of the sheath on itself. When the stilet is retracted it is seen to be cylindrical throughout, but as it advances its sheath accumulates on its anterior extremity, and it seems gradually to become club-shaped, so that when the tongue is completely re- tracted the under lip is filled not only with the extremity of the stilet, but with the sheath accumulated on it. Cuvier has described an annular muscle existing throughout the entire length of the membranous portion, which he describes as the proper muscle of the tongue, and to which he attributes its self-elongation. If such a muscle exists, which I will not posi- tively deny, it would fulfil all the required conditions, and leave nothing to be explained ; but I confess that, after careful microscopical research, I have been unable to find any mus- cular fibres having a transverse or circular dis- position, all being referable to the longitudinal bundles already referred to. Hunter has de- scribed what he considered to be two coils of some firm substance, wound in opposite di- rections, which by their approximation would become straightened, and so lengthen the tongue ;•—this is an ingenious hypothesis, but no more : there is nothing that will bear such an interpretation. Perrault, in speaking of the lungs of chameleons*, expresses an opi- nion that the tongue is driven, or, as it were, coughed out by the sudden expulsion of the air which the lungs contain. The hyoid apparatus consists of the hori- zontal projecting portion — the stilet already referred to, and four cornua, two short ante- rior ones, and two long vertical posterior ones {Jig. 761. A and B). These parts can move * Essais de Physique, t. i ii freely on each other, the articulation between the stilet and the greater cornua is particularly free. These cornua ascend, and are suspended loosely behind the jaws ; they are about three quarters of an inch long, and are clothed with the muscles that are attached to them. These muscles are, 1st, the geniohyoid (e. A B and 6'.), arising from the inner surface of the symphysis menti in contact with its fellow, and inserted into the inferior extremity of the vertical cornua, sending up a slip which is attached to its whole anterior border. 2dly, a distinct, small fasciculus, the cerato-maxillary (/), arising from the inner surface of the lower jaw, and inserted into the apex of the vertical cornua. 3dly, the sternohyoid (g), arising from the inner surface of the sternal extremity of the fourth and fifth rib, and inserted into the junction of the cornua and glossal portion of the hyoid. 4-thly, the cerato-sternal (//), more slender and flattened than the last, the antagonist of the cerato-maxillary, arising from the outer surface of the sternal extremity of the second rib, and inserted, just opposite the cerato-maxillary, into the apex of the greater cornua. 5thly, the omo-hyoid (J), inserted with the sterno-hyoid. This complicated arrange- ment of muscles, which I have drawn from na- ture* in Jig. 761. A, is the mechanism for the direction and extrinsic propulsion of the tongue ; by it the lower extremities of the greater cornua are drawn forward, and the summits depressed, so that, instead of being vertical, they are horizontal and advanced (B). The advance of the whole tongue thus gained is nearly an inch, and since the muscles that principally effect it, the genio-hyoid (e), are very strong, and the movement quick and forcible, the question may arise—Is this projectile movement suf- ficient to send the rest of the tongue forward, and effect its elongation, after the hyoid ap- paratus has come to a stop, in the same manner as the arrow flies from the string of a bow, though the string itself is suddenly arrested ? I think not. I think that some such muscular arrangement as that described by Cuvier must exist; and possibly, some transverse bundles of fibres of not very cha- racteristic appearance, which, from the absence of transverse stria?, I rejected as muscle, might have been of a muscular nature. The retrac- tion of the tongue is easily accounted for; it is simply drawn back on the stilet by the lon- gitudinal muscles. The use of the stilet appears to be, partly as a support to the tongue when in a state of rest, and partly to direct its move- ments ; for aim is seen to be taken while the tongue is still retracted : the animal first places itself in such a position that its head shall be turned directly to the object to be seized; it then fixes its head still more accurately, then slowly opens its mouth to a sufficient distance to allow the free egress of the tongue ; it then seems to fix it with a sort of tremulous rigid * It may be well to state that not only these, but all the figures illustrating this article (with one or two exceptions, which I have acknowledged), are original, and have been drawn by myself from na- ture, so that I can vouch for their correctness.