1206 TUNICATA. liver cells mBoItenia are elongated coeca, thick, and sometimes deeply divided at the outer extremity, attached by their thin ends, and arranged in eccentrically radiated groups, en- closed in an epithelial membrane, the whole having externally a racemiform appearance. The digestive organs of the Tunicata are subject to congenital malposition ; of which M. Savigny has described two remarkable exam- ples, \n Cynthia Momus and Phallusia Turcica; and Mr. MacLeay was inclined to regard as a malformation a peculiar arrangement of the intestinal canal that was presented by the unique specimen of Cystingia Griffithm de- scribed by him. In a unique specimen of P. Turcica, examined by M. Savigny, the intestine lay to the left instead of the right of the bran- chial sac, and was found bending backwards and embracing the stomach from below, in- stead of bending forwards at some distance from the pylorus, approaching the superior border of the stomach, and then terminating in the rectum. In a specimen of C. Momus, the alimentary canal was also found on the left-hand side ; but, by a very peculiar intro- version, the pharynx was placed at the pos- terior instead of the anterior extremity of the branchial sac. The intestine descended as far as the bottom of the mantle, folded it- self forward, and ascending parallel to itself, terminated opposite to the pharynx ; so that the anus and the oesophageal aperture both opened into the branchial orifice. The ex- ternal communication through the anal orifice existed as usual. Both of these malformed individuals had their ovaries full of egis, but were not, apparently, in strong health, and were more than usually infested with ento- mostraca. In the catalogue of the Hunterian Museum (vol. i. pi. 5. fig. 2.), a dissection of an Ascidian is figured after a drawing by John Hunter (the original specimen, however, has not been found), in which there is, apparently, an abnormal elongation of the oviduct, which is accompanied by a slight granular line, both lying on a large tapering tube having much the appearance of intestine ; the anus, how- ever, shows itself projecting from the side of this tubular body some way lower down, in its usual place. The oviduct, and, apparently, the accompanying elongated tube, terminate externally at a minute aperture placed in the sulcus between the two projecting terminal orifices of the test. The oviduct, however, barely reaches this aperture ; and its accom- panying granular line terminates still lower down. Organs of circulation. — In the Asculiadce there are two large vessels or sinuses, the dorsal and ventral, to which the branchial capillaries, on the one hand, and the heart and peri-intestinal cavity, on the other, are intermediate. The circulation is of the mixed or reptilian type ; both sinuses being in con- nection with systemic and respiratory capil- laries, and the blood, consequently, being sent by one impulse both to the system and to the branchiae, and ultimately returning from both by the same channel. We are prevented from calling either of these sinuses arterial or venous, on account of the periodic reversal of the circulation, mentioned incidentally above, and more fully detailed hereafter, whereby they are alternately changed from vein to artery and from artery to vein. One of the branchial trunks, terminating at the heart, however, answers to the branchial veins of the Gastero- pods and Bivalves ; the opposite, and often double, trunk may therefore be looked upon as the branchial artery, and is connected with the veins of the body. The Ascidia, like the rest of the Acephala, has but a left or aortic ventricle, and no ventricle at the union of the vena cava and the pulmonary artery. This aortic heart or ventricle is not always easy to be seen. When the branchial sac is simply oblong, it is situated towards its base ; and consequently, when the branchial sac is as long as the body, it is situated towards the base of the mantle; and when the sac is shorter than the body, it is placed near the centre of the mantle. When the branchial sac is bent upon itself, the heart is situated at the curve, and then it is always near the middle of the body. In general its position, according to Cuvier, appears to be deter- mined rather by that of the mouth, than that of the rectum; but M. Milne-Edwards and Van Beneden consider that it follows in its displacement the organs of generation rather than the mouth. The heart in the Tunicata is never traversed by the rectum, as in other Acephala. In the Ascidians the form of the heart is oblong, and thin at the two ends, or more or less tubular. Its substance is contractile, but extremely thin and transparent, so that it is scarcely distinguishable in the cavity of its highly pellucid pericardium. Cuvier ob- served that, in the species in which the branchial sac is bent upwards, he was not able clearly to discern a dilatation sufficiently marked to deserve the name of a heart, and was inclined to think that possibly in this case the heart's function was performed by the artery. Here, however, we may notice that specimens preserved in spirit generally afford but very indistinct traces of this organ ; and Cuvier does not appear to have had the opportunity of studying transparent specimens of the living animal, in which the heart can be detected by its pulsating movements. In Ascidia intestinalis the heart, which is very long, and extended under the ventral border of the respiratory sac, communicates with the great thoracic sinus by a longitudinal slit situated at a little distance from its an- terior extremity ; and when the peristaltic movements of the heart advance from behind forwards nearly all the blood contained in its cavity passes into this sinus, penetrating the vascular network of the branchial sac, and passing into the dorsal sinus, whence it is spread amongst the viscera, and returns to the posterior extremity of the heart not far from the anus. During this time the heart consequently performs the functions of a branchial ventricle, and the great thoracic