TASTE. 86'3 enough remains of the leaven of habit to render every precaution needful. With such precautions, however, which every physician who can take schooling from experience will employ, the stomach of the patient becomes a valuable guide ; whether it dictate abstinence from a recurrence to food ; whether much or little in quantity; whether what is solid or liquid; whether much drink or little; whe- ther things warm or cold ; whether sweet, acid, or saline; whether bland or stimulating to the taste." Further, Dr. Holland remarks : " It is not wholly paradoxical to say that we are authorised to give greatest heed to the stomach when it suggests some seeming ex- travagance of diet. It may be that this is a mere depravation of the sense of taste ; but frequently it expresses an actual need of the stomach either in aid of its own functions or indirectly (under the mysterious law just re- ferred to) for the effecting of changes in the whole mass of blood. It is a good practical rule in such cases to withhold assent till we find after a certain lapse of time that the same desire continues or strongly recurs ; in which case it may generally be taken as the index of the fitness of the thing desired for the actual state of the organs. In the early stage of recovery from long gastric fevers, I recollect many curious instances of such contrariety to all rule being acquiesced in, with manifest good to the patient. Dietetics must become a much more exact branch of knowledge, before we can be justified in opposing its maxims to the natural and repeated sugges- tions of the stomach, in the state either of health or disease." In regard to the use of wine in fever, it is universally admitted by prac- tical physicians that very important indica- tions may frequently be drawn from the appe- tency or dislike manifested towards it by the patient; this being often exhibited when there is an almost entire obtuseness of the mind in regard to all other external impressions. In such circumstances these dormant instincts seem to manifest themselves, which are kept under by the intelligence in the normal con- dition; instincts akin to those which guide the lower animals in their choice of food. There is probably not a plant, however poisonous to most, which has not one or more species of animal specially adapted to derive from it wholesome nutriment, and which is obviously drawn to it by its odour or savour ; whilst the most omnivorous feeders, such as the monkey, are usually restrained by dislikes, excited through these same senses, from touching fruits which would be noxious to them. It cannot be doubted that, in all persons of ordinary aptitude for the discrimination of flavours, there are certain natural harmonies and discords among these, as among colours and sounds ; so that particular substances of very different flavours taste agreeably in com- bination, whilst others are mutually repug- nant. Thus every body likes sugar in combi- nation with the acid of fruits ; and the sugar is popularly believed to neutralise the acid, which (as we need scarcely say) is not at all the case. On the other hand, sugar and oysters are said to form one of the most nauseous combinations possible. So, again, the flavour of many wines is improved by being tasted simultaneously with cheese, whilst it is injured by fruits.—The art of cookery is founded upon a knowledge of these facts, which have not yet perhaps received from the scientific physiologist the systematic atten- tion they deserve. Attempts have been made by Linnseus, Boerhaave, and others, to form a classification of savours ; but no such clas- sification has come into general use, although there are certain savours which all agree to consider primary; such as the aromatic, the sweet, the acid, the bitter, the saline, the astringent, and the pungent. By the first of these the sense of taste is connected with that of smell; by the last two with that of touch. The impressions made upon the sense of taste seem to remain longer after the with- drawal of the body that excited them, than those which are received through most of our other senses. This is not surprising, when it is considered that particles of the sapid sub- stance, which have once penetrated the pa- pillae, may linger there in contact with the sentient extremities of the nerves, for some little time after they have passed away from the external surface. In many cases, how- ever, the substance leaves an after-taste which is different from that which it first excited. It is difficult to say how much of this may be due to the difference of the impression which is made upon the sensory papilla at the front of the tongue and upon those at its base, and also to the admixture of the olfactive sense, which will be most actively called into play as the sapid body is passing the fauces; and how much to the exhaustion of the nerves conse- quent upon their previous stimulation, so that the after-taste is complementary to that first received. It certainly appears to confirm the former explanation, that the after-taste is generally of that bitterish character which we have seen to be produced by the mere me- chanical stimulation of the papilla? at the base of the tongue. On the other hand, the fact that tannin, one of the bitterest substances known, has a sweetish after-taste, seems to favour the latter view. Probably both causes may participate in the production of the re- sult. It is not very common to find the sense of taste excited in a purely subjective manner; since many of the tastes which are experienced in disease are probably due, as already re- marked, to the depravation of the buccal secretions. Nevertheless, we occasionally meet with instances in which some peculiar gustative sensation, usually of a disagreeable nature, is constantly experienced without being traceable to any such cause; and in which, therefore, we must seek for its occasion in some disordered functional condition of the sensorium. The purpose °f the sense of taste is obviously to serve as the guide and attraction towards