TONGUE. 1132 the subject that have been made, namely those of Mr. Bowman, as published in the " Philo- sophical Transactions," and in the " Physio- logical Anatomy" of himself and Dr. Todd, I would advance them with diffidence, and some- thing like hesitation. The appearances that I have invariably seen, by daily examinations for some time, of sections from many tongues, is this: each fibre, before its termination, gradu- ally tapers, in a fusiform manner, with more or less of acuteness ; sometimes the tapering is rather sudden, in other cases very much pro- longed (Jig. 752. a) ; in all the tapering is con- Fig. 752. A. Fasciculus of the vertical fibres of the tongue, showing their fusiform extremities and the ter- mination of each muscular fibre in a filament of white fibrous tissue. (Magnified 100 diameters. B. Magnified 200 diameters). tinued so far that the muscular tissue becomes nearly as fine as the fibrous tissue in which it terminates: from this fine extremity the fibre passes off, and the appearances at the point of transition are of two sorts ; the one as seen at B, a, where the muscle passes smoothly off in the fibrous tissue, and you cannot tell where the one commences and the other ends ; the other as seen at b, b , where the pointed extremity of the muscle is a little rounded, and its outline plainly visible ; but in this case, also, the diameter of the extremity of the muscle as nearly as possible coincides with that of the fibre. It is possible that the dif- ference of appearance may depend in some degree upon difference of focus, but, certainly, I have not been able, in some cases, by any adjustment of focus, to get a clear definition of the point where the muscular structure termi- nated. In those cases where the outline of the termination of the muscle is defined, the transverse striation may be traced up to its very extremity ; where the outline of the one merges in that of the other, the stria? seem also gradually to be lost, becoming a linear series of little dots, and so fading awaj' (b, a). The conclusion that the appearance at once suggested to me was, that the sarcolemma, condensed by the diminution of its contents, passed off from the acuminated extremity as a tendon of white fibrous tissue ; and this opinion was confirmed when I thought of the genesis of these structures. If, as seems probable from the account given by Schwann and other physiologists of the de- velopment of muscle, the sarcolemma is the persistent cell-wall of the original for- mation-cells of the fibre, and if white fibrous tissue is true zellenfasern — altered cell-wall of cells that have become elongated at their opposite nodes, and plicated as it were, — then we reduce the sarcolemma and the white fibrous tissue to the same category — altered cell-wall. The function of the cell- wall of the muscle-cell is to secrete that peculiar matter within it which ultimately becomes sarcous matter; the function of the cell-wall of the fibre-cell is to become elon- gated and plicated, or otherwise longitudinally striated. To explain, therefore, the gradual passage of one structure into the other, we have merely to suppose, on the part of the cell- wall, the gradual mergence of one function, and taking on of the other. These considera- tions at any rate tend to obviate any ante- cedent objections to the opinions suggested by the appearances, that would have arisen if there had been any thing essentially heteroge- neous in the nature of the structures con- cerned. The fact, that Mr. Bowman's obser- vations were made on the lower animals — fish, Crustacea, and insects — may perhaps account for the difference of the appearances. It is a subject that requires more investiga- tion, and no structures seem to me so much adapted for this purpose as the tongues of the lower vertebrata. A. Extrinsic muscles of the tongue. —-These are four in number, the ■palatoglossus, the stylo- glossus, the hyoglossus, and the genioglossus; at- taching the tongue to the soft palate, base of the skull, hyoid bone, and lower jaw, and mov- ing it nearly in the lour cardinal directions, up- wards, downwards, backwards, and forwards. They are all more or less of a mixed nature, being continued in some degree into the tongue. They move the organ en masse, and attach it to distant parts by virtue of their extrinsic portion ; they contribute to the sub- stance of the organ, and affect its form, by virtue of their intrinsic portion. It is this continuity of the substance of the tongue with its means of connection to distant parts that makes those connections so strong and safe; it is this prolongation of the extrinsic muscles into the tongue that renders the association of the extrinsic and intrinsic movements so intimate. The 2,alat°gl°sslls (glosso-staphylinus), the smallest of these muscles, constitutes the connection between the soft palate and the sides of the tongue. At its origin in the soft palate its fibres are mingled with those of the palatopharyngeus ; as it descends to the tongue it becomes much narrower, constitut-