TONGUE. 11G0 face ; and by smoothing the finger over the tongue they could be brushed from one side to the other. Their colour was deep Van- dyke-brown, and they were most numerous in the centre of the tongue. They looked ex- actly like little brown hairs. Sensation and taste were both a good deal damaged." To my friend, Dr. Joseph Bullar, I am indebted for the other instance. His patient was an old lady of sixty-five ; she had been subject to constipation, for which she was in the habit of taking strong purgatives. The tongue was large, vascular, and the papilla? of all kinds prominently marked. It looked in an irritable condition, as if sympathising with a congested mucous membrane. On the middle and back of the dorsum was a patch of hypertrophied filiform papilla;, of a dark sepia colour, or rather of the brown colour of a dark typhoid tongue. These filamentous growths were re- moved by forceps, and some were sent to me, from which I made the accompanying draw- ings. The specimens that I received were very dark, almost black : I have some of them in my possession now, nearly or quite half an inch long ; their texture was very compact, and their shape cylindrical, with hardly any trace of tapering. They all, as seen by the Fig. 764 microscope, possessed a retrorse imbrication of the same character as ordinary filiform pa- pilla? {Jig. 764.). The epithelium did not con- tain any granular pigment, but the colour appeared to pervade the whole cell, which was evenly stained and semi-transparent. In Jig. 764. is seen a papilla, or hair, at full length, and in Jig. 765. a portion of another, showing the imbrication of the epithelium. The Scarlatina tongue contrasts remarkably with the preceding ; for here the deeper ele- ments of the papillae are principally the seat of change. In scarlet fever the capillaries of the papilla;, in common with the sub-basement vascular system of so large a portion both of the internal and external surfaces of the body, become turgid, and the papillae themselves — not so much their epithelium — become en- Fig. 765. A portion of hypertrophied JiUform papilla, show- ing its length and true hair character. Mag. 25 and 80 diameters. A portion of hypertrophied papilla, showing well the retrorse imbrication of its epithelium. Mag. 200 diameters. larged and red. In the early stages of the fever this change is concealed by the fur (which is a sodden and opaque condition of epithelium), as it regards the filiform papilla.-, —fur being, in all cases I believe, confined to these and the papilla? conicae. Not so the fungiform papilla? ; for these are exaggerated and bright red. The result is, that the surface is a combination of thick white cream-like fur and red projected spots, the former being most conspicuous where the filiform papilla? abound — the central portions of the tongue, — and the latter in the regions of the papillae fungiforma? — the edges and tip of the tongue. These fungiform papilla? look like theachasnia scattered on the surface of the fruit of the strawberry. As the disease advances, the epithelial covering is shed, and only a thin transparent epithelium remains : the papilla? are consequently red and bright all over the surface, which is clean, rough, red, and raw- looking in every part. Atrophy of the papilla? is occasionally met with. Mr. Lawrence mentions the case of a person in whom, from habitual drinking, the tongue was, for the greater part of its surface,