TEETH. 921 only molar in the smaller Chimpanzee as large as the corresponding tooth in the black varieties of the human subject *, in most of which, especially the Australians, the true molars attain larger dimensions than in the yellow or white races. The four principal cusps, especially the two inner ones, of the first molar of both species of Chimpanzee are more pointed and prolonged than in Man ; a fifth small cusp is developed behind the outer pair, as in the Orangs and the Gibbons, but is less than that in Man. The same additional cusp is present in the second molar, which is seldom seen in Man. The crucial groove on the grinding surface is much less distinct than in Man, not being continued across the ridge connecting the anterior pair of cusps in the Chimpanzee. The crown of the third molar is longer antero-posteriorly from the greater development of the fifth posterior cusp, which, however, is rudimental in comparison with that in the Semnopitheques and Macaques. All the three true molars are supported by two distinct and well developed antero-pos- teriorly compressed divergent fangs, longitu- dinally excavated on the sides turned towards each other ; in the white ami yellow races of the human subject these fangs are usually connate in m. 3, and sometimes also in in. 2. The molar series in both species of Chim- panzee forms a straight line, with a slight ten- dency in the upper jaw to bend in the opposite direction to the well-marked curve which the same series describes in the human subject. This difference of arrangement, with the more complex implantation of the premolars, the proportionally larger size of the incisors as compared with the molars ; the still greater relative magnitude of the canines ; and, above all, the sexual distinction in that respect, illus- trated by Jigs. 585. 587., stamp the Chimpan- zees most decisively with not merely specific but generic distinctive characters as compared with Man. For the teeth are fashioned in their shape and proportions in the dark re- cesses of their closed formative alveoli, and do not come into the sphere of operation of external modifying causes until the full size of the crowns has been acquired. The formid- able natural weapons, with which the Creator has armed the powerful males of both species of Chimpanzee, form the compensation for the want of that psychical capacity to forge destructive instruments which has been re- served as the exclusive prerogative of Man. Both Chimpanzees and Orangs differ from the human subject in the order of the de- velopment of the permanent series of teeth ; the second molar (»;. 2) comes into place before either of the premolars has cut the gum, and the last molar (tn. 3) is acquired before the canine. We may well suppose that the larger grinders are earlier required by the frugivorous Chimpanzees and Orangs than by the higher organised omnivorous spe- cies with more numerous and varied resources, and probably one main condition of the earlier * See my Odontography, pi. 110,^. 2, m. development of the canines and premolars in Man may be their smaller relative size. In the South American Quadrumana, the number of teeth is increased to thirty-six (art. Quadrumana,Vol. IV. p.210.; Cebince*), by an addition of one tooth to the molar series on each side of both jaws. It might be concluded, a priori, that as three is the typical number of true molars in the placental Mam- malia with two sets of teeth, the additional tooth in the Cebince would be a premolar, and form one step to the resumption of the normal number (four) of that kind of teeth. The proof of the accuracy of this inference is given by the state of the dentition in the young Cebus in fig. 589., which corresponds with that of the human child in fig. 584., i. e. the whole of the Fig. 589. Deciduous and permanent teeth of Cebus. deciduous dentition is retained, and the first true molar {»/. 1) is in place on each side of both jaws. The germs of the other teeth of the permanent series are exposed in the upper jaw ; and the crown of a premolar is found above the third molar in place, as well as above the second and first. As regards number, therefore, the molar series, in Cebus, is interme- diate between that of Musteta {fig. 5S0., IV.) and Felis (ib. V.) ; the little premolar p.i. in Alustcla tells plainly enough which of the four is wanting to complete the typical number in the South American Monkey, and which is the additional premolar distinguishing its dental formula from that of the Old World monkeys ami man. By reference to Prof. Vro- lik's article (Quadrumana) it will be seen that the eighth genus, including the little Marmoset monkeys {Hapale, Ouistiii), " have only the same number of teeth as the monkeys 4 1—1 of the Old World, viz. 32, i. r, c. -—- m. * I — 1 5 5 -—-." But the difference is much greater than this numerical conformity would intimate. In a young Jacehus penicillatus I find that there are three deciduous molars displaced by three premolars, as in the other South Ame- rican Quadrumana, and that it is the last true molar, in. 3, the development of which is sup- pressed, not the premolar p. 2, and thus these diminutive squirrel-like monkeys actually differ * The dental series seems, unluckily, not to have been complete in either of the skulls represented by the distinguished author of that aide article ( fin's 132, 133).