986 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). recluse and studious habits the functions of these organs often continue dormant for years. Like the mammae in the unmarried female, though inactive, they remain sound and competent for secretion when duly ex- cited and called upon to exercise their func- tions. It often happens that the passions are excited without an opportunity being afforded for their gratification. Under these circum- stances the testicles become encumbered with secretion which would prove injurious to them were they not relieved by occasional nocturnal emission, or ejaculations of the semen under the influence of dreams during sleep, which appear to be a salutary provision to obviate the inconveniences which might result as well from ungratified desires as from an accumulation of semen in the ducts. Envelopes of the testicle.—The scrotum, or pouch of integument containing the testicles, including the dartos, has already been de- scribed. (Article Scrotum). Superficial or external spermatic fascia. — Beneath the loose areolar tissue of the scro- tum is situated a delicate layer of fascia, which is continuous with the superficial fascia of the lower part of the abdominal parietes, and, descending so as to form a sheath to the spermatic cord and an envelope to the testicle, becomes continuous behind with the super- ficial fascia of the perineum. This fascia is usually very thick and distinct in cases of large and old scrotal hernia. Crcmaster muscle — Directly beneath the superficial fascia is found the cremaster muscle (so named from Kpzuaai to suspend), or, as it has been appropriately termed by Mr. Hunter, the musculus testis. (For description, vide, Abdomen, vol.i. p. 6.) The two attachments of this muscle, the external to Poupart's ligament, and the internal to the os pubis, correspond, as I have previously (p. 983.) shown, to those of the muscle of the gubernaculum, being indeed the same structure, with its relations altered. The actions of the cremaster, which, with a few exceptions, are involuntary, appear to be those of giving a tonic support to the testicles, retracting them to the abdominal rings, and compressing them during the sexual act. In some instances, in boys before the approach of puberty, this muscle has been capable of drawing the gland up into the in- guinal canal. Persons are occasionally met with who possess a voluntary power over its actions in various degrees of perfection. Some are able to elevate the testicle on one side but not on the other, whilst others can retract both testicles to the abdominal rings, and retain them there at will. A very remarkable instance of the cremaster muscle being com- pletely under the influence of volition is recorded by Mr. Hutchinson.* Deep spermatic fascia. — The tunica vagi- nalis and spermatic cord are invested by a thin delicate fascia, which is situated beneath the cremaster muscle, and forms a common * Practical Observations in Surgery, second edit, p. 13ft. fibrous envelope to the testicle, and spermatic cord. It is attached to the back part of the gland. This membrane may be traced as a prolongation of the fascia transversalis, and is probably formed in the process of transition of the testicle from the abdomen to the scrotum. The spermatic cord. — The parts composing the spermatic cord, are the vas deferens, the artery of the duct, the spermatic artery and veins, the lymphatic vessels, and the spermatic nerves. These parts are connected by loose areolar tissue. A fibro-cellular process, being the remains of the process of serous membrane originally connecting the tunica vaginalis with the peritoneum, may sometimes be perceived in the front part of the cord. The spermatic cord extends from the internal abdominal ring to the back part of the testicle. Its upper portion, therefore, lies in the inguinal canal. The coverings of the cord are the same as those of the testicle : viz., the inte- guments, superficial fascia, cremaster muscle, and deep spermatic fascia. For Comparative Anatomy, see the article Organs of Generation. Abnormal Anatomy of the Testicle.— Congenital imperfections and malformations.— Numerical excesses and defects. — Cases of su- pernumerary testicles are mentioned in the writings of the old authors, and persons have been described with four or five of them, ac- companied with a proportionate increase in the venereal appetite. Nearly all these cases are of a fabulous character. Such must be remarked of the case of TrevrSpxos, or man with five tes- ticles, mentioned by Schaarf*, and with that of a man with four testicles alluded to by Blegny.-|- Blasius, an old writer not un- worthy of credit, has, however, given an account of the examination of a man, thirty years of age, and otherwise well formed, who had two testicles on the right side, of the same size and shape as that on the left, which is illustrated by a small engraved figure re- presenting a distinct artery from the aorta, and vein from the vena cava proceeding to each of the two testicles on the right side.J This is the only case of supernumerary testicle recorded by the old authors, which has any semblance of authenticity. Neither Morgagni, Haller, nor Meckel met with a single exam- ple, and they questioned the existence of such a condition. Two cases have recently been recorded as examples of triple testicle, but they were not verified by examination after death. One is related by Bliimener, an army surgeon, in Rusts Magazin fur die Gesammte Heilkunde for 1824: the other by Dr. Macann, a British surgeon. $ An epi- plocele, a fatty or fibrous tumour in the scrotum, or an encysted hydrocele of the cord, * Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. 111. Ann. v. vi. Obs. 89. p. 175. f Zodiaque Francais, Ann. 11. Most of the re- puted cases of Triorchkks are quoted by Arnaud, in his Me'moires de Chirurgie. Mem. iii. part i. % Ger. Blasius, Obs. Med. Anat. Obs. 20. p. 60. § Provincial Medical Journal, Nov. 5.1842, p. 113.