THORAX. 1059 3 v 2 circumference over the nipples, alive, 38 in.; dead, 36 in. — died with an expiration, — we, by means of the hasmadynamometer, contain- ing water, attached to the trachea, found, with different volumes of air in the lungs, the following elastic collapsing power (tem- perature— of body 98*5° Fahr. — of atmo- sphere 59-5u, barometer 29-753). Table O. — Elasticity of the Lungs (male, set. 29.). Elastic col- lapsing power, * Volumes of air. in. of water- Residual vol. - 2*5 Reserve vol. ( + 90 cubic inches) 7-2 Breathing vol. ( + 20 ditto) - 8'2 Vital capacity (+25 ditto +150 ditto) 17-0 M. M., female; sudden death; temperature of body 97-5° Fahr. ; aet. 28 ; height 5 ft. 9 in.; circumference of chest over nipples 37 in.; below 32* ; lungs healthy. Table P.— Elasticity of Lungs (fern., aet. 28.). Elastic col- lapsing power, Volumes of air. in. of water. Residual vol. - 0'7 Reserve vol. (+ 100 cubic inches) 5'5 Breathing vol. (+100 ditto) - 10-0 Vital capacity (+ 90 ditto) 20"0 At the commencement of "ordinary breath- ing" the collapsing power of the lungs in our experiment was 7'2 in., or nearly J- of a lb. per superficial square inch. This is a very notable power, not less in the gross, oftentimes, than 100 lbs. of dead uncounter- balanced resistance to the respiratory mus- cles. In the female, with nearly an arith- metical increase of 100 cubic inches per vo- lume, the collapsing power increases 5 to 10 and 20. The insufflated volume in the male being less regular, the collapsing power ma- nifested is also less regular. But, taking the mean resistance of the reserve and breathing volumes in the male combined (160 cub. in.), the power of collapse was 7-7 inches. In the female, the mean of nearly the same quantity of air in the lungs (within 10 cubic inches) allowing for little or no residual volume at the starting point when we inflated, is likewise 7-7 inches. We believe that the elastic power of the lungs in the two sexes is the same; — indeed why should it not be so? because the office of the elastic tissue is to drive out of the lungs volumes of air no longer required ; and it is probable that the resistance given by the air, against the sides of the air tubes, in both sexes, is the same; and unless the number and calibre of the air tubes are different, the resistance, by friction, to the elastic collapse of the lungs, from the trans- mission of similar volumes of air in the two sexes, must be the same. In three experiments we found the elastic collapse of the lungs cease at different degrees; i. e. different volumes of residual air were displaced when the elastic force had come to its minimum. * For definition of these terms see p. 1065. Table Q —Volume of Residual Air displaced by the Elastic Collapse of the Lungs when the Thorax was opened, in three Males. Height. Weight. Circum. of chest. Weight of Lungs. Vital capa- city. Volume dis- placed. Bronchial expansion. H. ft. in. 5 10 St. lbs. 11 10 in. 301 lbs. in. 240 in. 30 in. 7 C. 5 8 10 10 34i 16J 200 60 1-5 M. 5 9 1 1 0 36 36 238 45 12-5 There is no order in the numbers 30, 60, and 45, relative to the other measurements. We do not know what quantity of air remained after these volumes were displaced. When we ex- hausted the remainder of the residual volume, which is not affected by the elastic collapse of the lungs, the sides of the air tubes themselves collapsed by the atmospheric pressure. They likewise are elastic, but in a contrary direc- tion ; an expanding elasticity keeping them open. We found that the expanding elasticity acted so as to draw or suck inwards the air with the different powers represented by 7,1*5 and 12"5 inches of water in the haemadynamo- meter, when we attempted to withdraw out of the lungs more air than the lungs themselves naturally displace by their collapsing elasticity. Therefore these figures may represent the ex- panding elasticity of the air tubes. In these cases there is no apparent order ; but we learn the fact that such elasticity exists. In the case C there was a tubercular condition of lung, in the milliary form, in one apex; in H there was extensive pleuritic adhesions ; but in the case of M the lungs were remarkably healthy. It is interesting to notice that there are here two elasticities in contrary direc- tions,— an elastic collapse which has its limit at a certain point, and an elastic expansion of the air tubes, which likewise have their limit of expansion at the same point, protecting the calibre of the air tubes from any further collapse. In the case of M the expansion of the air tubes was equal to 12-5 inches of water; by calculation it appears that the collapse of the elastic tissue upon the vital capacity volume would be about 14 inches. These antago- nistic forces are quite independent of the will, or any nervous stimuli: one is for maintain- ing an expiratory current of air, and the other for preserving an open channel in the lungs for inspiration. The lungs are very delicate organs, and can resist but little artificial force ; for, if once inflated to the ordinary state of either the breathing volume or vital capacity volume, they do not appear able to collapse again to their original size ; — probably intra-lobular emphysema is produced. In our experiments we forced air into the lungs; they were expanded because we inflated them. We now think it would be better to