J 407 VENOUS SYSTEM. in the fore-arm by many cutaneous branches from either side. Opposite the elbow joint these tributaries have ended in one vessel of considerable size, the cephalic vein, which, being joined by a branch from the median vein {median cephalic), ascends between the biceps and supinator longus muscles, follows the outer margin of the biceps, traverses the interspace between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, and ultimately having arrived in the subclavicular triangle, bends over the upper edge of the pectoralis minor, penetrates the thin expansion of the "fascia clavicularis" (Ugamentum bicorne), and enters the axillary vein immediately beneath the clavicle. In some instances a branch is continued upwards from the cephalic vein, which passes over the clavicle and communicates with the external jugular vein. The ulnar or internal superficial veins have their origins from veins which ramify on the dorsum of the hand and of the two inner fingers, one of which from the little finger has been long known as the "vena salvatella;" others arise anteriorly from subcutaneous veins on the front of the wrist. In the vici- nity <>f the elbow both sets of branches unite to form one principal trunk, the basilic vein, which is reinforced almost at the moment of its formation by the median basilic vein, a branch of very considerable size from the median. The basilic vein, now much enlarged, as- cends along the inner margin of the biceps muscle, parallel to the brachial artery, but more superficially than that vessel, (for the deep fascia intervenes,) until it arrives oppo- site the centre of the arm, when it pierces the brachial aponeurosis, and joins one or other of the vence comites of the brachial artery. In a few instances the vein ascends as high as the axilla, and entering that space joins the trunk of the axillary vein. The superficial veins in the front of the upper part of the fore-arm unite to form a short trunk termed median vein, which by its lateral branches connects the radial and ulnar super- ficial veins ; near the bend of the elbow the median vein receives a large communicating branch from the venae comites of the brachial artery, and terminates by dividing into two very considerable veins, termed median basilic and median cephalic veins respectively : the latter passes obliquely upwards and outwards, over the tendon of the biceps, and joins the cephalic vein ; the former, which is the largest, inclines inwards, and in its course to join the basilic trunk passes across the bra- chial artery, separated from it only by the " semilunar fascia" of the biceps tendon. The deep veins of the upper extremity ac- company the ramifications of the larger arteries chiefly, which in the lower as well as in the upper extremity, are invariably attended by two veins, one on either side, hence called vence comites; transverse branches at short intervals maintain a free communication between these vessels. The vence comites of the ulmar artery are de- rived from veins which correspond to the di- gital arteries, and which form a superficial pa/mar arch of veins, which at its outer ex- tremity receives branches from the deep radial veins, through which the venae comites of the radial and ulnar arteries are brought into com- munication with each other. The associate veins of the interosseous artery unite with the venae comites of the ulnar artery. The vence comites of the radial artery com- mence from the palmar hiterosseal veins, which form a deep palmar arch across the heads of the metacarpal bones, and are joined by veins from the muscles of the thumb, and by branches of the superficial arch which follow the course of the arteria superficialis volae. The vena; comites of both the radial and ulnar arteries receive numerous tributaries from the veins of the adjacent muscles, and ultimately unite to form the Satellite veins of the brachial artery. — The brachial venae comites are joined by veins which correspond to the branches of the brachial artery in the arm (superior and inferior profunda and anastomotic^ magna), and also by the basilic vein. At the lower part of the axilla, these veins, by their union, form the axillary vein. The axillary vein returns all the blood from the upper limb : it is formed by the union of the brachial venae comites (with one or other of which, in the arm, the basilic vein is con- tinuous), whilst the cephalic vein joins it near its termination. Like its accompanying artery, the axillary vein consists of three stages, and its relations to surrounding parts are identical with those of that vessel. The vein is placed internal and anterior to the artery throughout its entire course. When the arm is abducted, the vein becomes inferior. In addition to the cephalic vein, the axil- lary trunk receives numerous branches which correspond to those of the axillary artery, viz., the circumflex and subscapular veins, the alar, and the long, superior, and acromial thoracic veins. The axillary is the last vein of the upper extremity, as we approach the heart, in which values exist: at the lower edge of the first rib it becomes continuous with the subcla- vian vein. Subclavian vein. — This great vessel extends from the axillary vein to the inner margin of the scalenus anticus muscle, where it uniteswith the internal jugular vein, to form the vena innominata. The subclavian vein therefore corresponds to the second and third stages only of the subclavian artery ; and, as the direction of the vein is nearly transverse, whilst that of the artery describes an arch, it necessarily follows that the former vessel is much shorter than the latter. On both sides of the neck the scalenus anticus muscle, and the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves, are, interposed between these associated vessels. The subclavian vein is related anteriorly to the subclavius and sterno-mastoid muscles, to the clavicle, supra-scapular artery, platysma, and superficial structures of the neck, and