WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). 1528 and lunar bones, which confronted each other, were covered with an ivory-like polish. The trapezium, where it supported the first phalanx of the thumb, was polished on its pulley-like articular surface. The trapezoides was much diminished in size, and solidly anchylosed with the first phalanx of the index finger. The transverse diameter of the magnum was not one quarter of an inch ; and the loss of breadth to this degree accounted somewhat for the abnormal narrowing of the carpus already noticed. The cuneiform was normal, as well as the pisiform. The junction, then, of the magnum with the scaphoid, and the equally solid bony union of the trapezoides with the meta-carpal bone of the index finger, were the only articulations of this region, or, indeed, of the whole skeleton of this individual, which presented specimens of true bony anchylosis. The cause of the eburnation of the surfaces of some of the carpal bones might have been that these bones bore occasionally much of the weight of the man in progression, because he had been much disabled in his lower limbs, and habitually used crutches. Synovial Tumours of the Region of the Wrist. — Synovial tumours generally present them- selves around the joints of the extremities ; and the wrist seems especially liable to them. By the term synovial tumours of the wrist, we do not mean those formed by an increased effusion into the proper synovial sac of the radio-carpal articulation, but enlargements constituted by bursa? in this region. Synovial cysts, called ganglions, are fre- quently seen on the back of the wrist and carpus. They are of a globular form, and, as to size, vary from that of a hazel-nut to that of a walnut. They are usually situated at the level of the medio-carpal articulation in the course of the extensor tendons as they pass to the carpus. These tumours are slightly moveable, indolent, and painless, without any alteration in the colour of the skin which covers them from that which is natural. The contents of these little swellings are found to be synovia of a variable consistency : some- times it is serous and limpid ; occasionally the contents are constituted by a thick trans- parent jelly. The cyst seems to be formed by the reticular tissue which immediately covers the sheath of the extensor tendons. The part of the cyst which corresponds to the skin is united to it by a layer of very thin cellular tissue, but loose enough to allow of the skin being easily raised up. The part, on the contrary, which is deeply situated reposes in the sheath of the tendons, or the capsular ligament of the wrist, and is firmly connected to them. This union is sometimes so inti- mate that it is impossible to take away the cyst without interfering with the tendon or the articular capsule. The thickness of this cyst varies much. Sometimes it is thin and translucent, and it breaks when subjected to but little pressure; at other times its thickness and its texture are such that the most violent efforts cannot rup- ture it. We have usually seen this disease in fe- males more than in males; and the cause of the origin of these little tumours in the wrists of the former appeared to us frequently attri- butable to over-exertion, such as prolonged playing on some musical instruments, such, for example, as the harp or piano. Whatever may have been the cause for the origin of these encysted tumours, once formed, they for a time increase in a gradual manner ; and when they have attained a moderate size, they cease to grow. They sometimes, though rarely, subside spontaneously. The interior of the membranous sac, m the distention of which, by a glairy fluid, the tu- mour consists, is smooth and polished. The interior of these cysts generally have no com- munication whatever either with the medio- carpal or wrist-joint itself; but Velpeau says he has seen two cases in which he could easily press the liquid contained in the cyst into the articulation of the wrist if he at the same time gave certain movements to the joint. He adds, that twice he had an oppor- tunity, in the dead body, to show that these cysts communicated with the interior of the joint. Morbid Condition of the Synovial Bursts of the Flexor Tendons.—The swellings which these enlarged bursa; constitute, do not pre- sent the same regularity of form that gan- glions do. The cause of their origin may generally be referred to some great exertion— to a fall or other external violence. I have known, in one case, one of these swellings appear with- out having been produced by any injury. The constitution of this patient was very decidedly of the rheumatic character. The species of swelling we are now refer- ring to commences in the synovial bursa which envelopes the flexor tendons of the fingers as they pass beneath the anterior an- nular ligament of the wrist: the swelling con- sists of an increased quantity of synovial fluid effused into the cavity of the little sac the bursa constitutes. At first the effusion is small, and the bursa keeps within its normal boundary, behind the anterior annular liga- ment ; but the accumulation of synovia in- creases by degrees; and then the swelling appears divided into two parts, which are separated from each other by the annular ligament, which seems to form a transverse band which constricts the sac, leaving a tu- mour above the annular ligament in front of the wrist, and another beneath the level of this ligament in the palm. Pressure on the portion of the sac above makes the synovial fluid pass down into the part of the bursal sac beneath. In these cases the skin pre- serves its colour and normal mobility, the fin- gers become somewhat flexed, and there is some difficulty experienced in fully extending them. The patient suffers no pain, but only complains of a numbness and weakness in the fingers, hand, and wrist. On compressing one of the extremities of this tumour (as, for example, that placed * Diotionnaire de Mc'decine, torn. 25, pi. 294.