VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1347 4 R 2 sitional grades between them, it is believed that all existing languages may be referred. It is remarkable that the development of a language should not by any means correspond to the advance of civilisation, so far, at least, as this is manifested by progress in the arts of life. The Chinese, for instance, of all known languages, most completely preserves, in a fixed or stereotyped condition, that earliest phase in the development of speech, in which every word corresponded to, or represented, a substantial object in the outward world ; and it cannot be denied that a considerable amount of intellectual development is to be found amidst that people. And from what is known of the ancient Egyptian language, this appears to have been nearly in the same con- dition. On the other hand, there are many languages of comparatively barbarous nations, even belonging to the same group with the Chinese, which possess much greater flexi- bility. The highest development of language however, is undoubtedly to be found coinci- dent with the highest intellectual cultivation ; since this pre-eminently shows itself in the Indo-European tongues, of which the Sanscrit may be taken as the type, the Hellenic pre- senting its highest development in the amalga- mate form, and the English in the anaptotic. In both these do we find that the general plan of construction tends to give to every single word a fixed and definite meaning, and at the same time, to render it subservient to the general idea that the sentence is to unfold, which is obviously the great end and aim of language; whilst in the Chinese, every spoken word has an immense variety of meanings, and its import being determined, partly by its place in the sentence, partly by the tones or accents with which it is pronounced, and in the written language by an immense number of conventional signs derived from figurative sources, which are destined, not to express sounds, but to suggest ideas, and thus to assist the reader in guessing the meaning of the word. Now the most positive evidence which philology is able to afford, in regard to the affinities of two languages, is undoubtedly that which is derived from their conformity both in vocabulary and in grammar. But it fre- quently happens that one of these kinds of evidence is deficient; and the degree of reli- ance that can be placed upon the other, taken alone, must depend greatly upon the circum- stances of the individual case. Thus, if there be evidence that the vocabulary of one of these languages is in a state of continual change, an entire difference of vocabularies is no obstacle to the idea of the affinity between two languages, when this is decidedly indi- cated by a striking conformity in their systems of construction. On the other hand, when two languages or groups of languages differ greatly in their construction, but present a certain degree of verbal correspondence, full weight may be attached to that correspond- ence, if it can be proved that it has not been the result of intercourse subsequently to the divergence of the stock, and if it can be shown to be probable that their separation took place at a period when as yet the grammatical development of both languages was in its in- fancy. The first appears to be true of the American languages, which seem, as a whole, to be legitimately referable to a common stock, notwithstanding their complete verbal diversity. The second is the aspect under which it appears likely that the Indo-European or Japetic, and the Syro-Arabian or Semitic groups of languages will come to present themselves ; the results of the recent labours of Rawlinson, Layard, Botta and others, on Eastern Archaeology, tending decidedly in this direction. Philological inquiry, then, must be looked to as the chief means of determining the question of radiation from a single centre or from multiple centres ; and although, in the present state of this department of science it would be unsafe to venture on a positive con- clusion, yet the following may be considered as the principal groups under which the various languages hitherto studied may be arranged. 1. The Indo-European, sometimes termed Indo-German, frequently Japetic, and by late writers Arian, or Iranian. This group com- prehends nearly all the existing languages of Europe, and those of a portion of South- western Asia. 2. The Sj/ro-Arabian, often termed Semitic; which are spoken by a large part of the popu- lation of Syria, Arabia, and Northern and Eastern Africa. 3. The Turanian, or Ugro-Tartarianj which are spoken by the (Mongolian) people of High Asia and of certain parts of Northern Europe. 4. The Seriform, or Indo-Chinese ; which are spoken by the people of South-Eastern Asia. 5. The African ; which are spoken by the people of Central and Southern Africa. 6. The Malayo-Poh/nesian ; which are spoken by the inhabitants of the numerous islands and island-continents of Oceania. 7. The American ; which are spoken by the inhabitants of the New World, from the Arctic Sea to Cape Horn. Now it is not a little curious that the linguistic affinity should often be strongest, where the conformity in physical characters is slightest, and weakest when this is strongest. Thus among the Malavo-Polynesian and the American races, as already remarked, there are very striking differences in conformation, features, complexion, &c.; and yet the lin- guistic affinity of the great mass of tribes forming each group is not now doubted by any philologist, though a doubt may still hang over some particular cases. On the other hand, the hiatus between the Turanian and the Seriform languages is very wide ; but the physical conformity is so strong between the Chinese and the typical Mongolian nations, that no ethnologist has ever thought of as-