WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). J513 luxation of the wrist, has been at least half an inch lower down than the level of the carpal extremity of the radius. The reverse, however, of this I have lately seen, in a case of congenital luxation of the wrist, under Dr. M'Dowel's care, in the Whitworth Hos- pital. In this case, of which Dr. Gordon has been kind enough to present me with a cast, the radius has, at its lower extremity, passed half an inch lower down on the back of the carpus than the ulna; varieties have been also noticed as to the carpus; in some cases the bones of the carpus were not only malformed, but deficient in number ; in one case nine bones were found. There are other congenital malformations of the wrist-joint which demand some attention from the physician and surgeon, such as affections of the wrist analogous to valgus, and cases of the foot and ankle, but we do not consider this the place to discuss these cases. We may make the same remark as to those congenital defects of the hand witli deformity of the wrist, which have been noticed to co- incide with a deficiency in the brain on the side opposite to the deformity. Accident.—The principal lesions which the structure that compose the region of the wrist are liable to, are : — 1st. Dislocations of the wrist and neigh- bouring radio-ulnar articulations. 2nd. Dislocations of the bones of the carpus. 3rd. Fractures of the lower extremities of the bones of the forearm, in the immediate vicinity of the wrist-joint. 1st. Dislocations. — Dislocations and frac- tures of the bones entering into the com- position of the wrist-joint are two kinds of lesions, which for a long time have been confounded together, or mistaken for each other. Even in modern times authors have stated the wrist-joint to be liable to numerous luxations. Tims, Boyer, Petit, Mr. Samuel Cooper, &c. &c, entered into a de- scription of the different dislocations of the wrist, as forwards, backwards, inwards, and outwards, complete and incomplete, just as Hippocrates and others, down to Celsus, had done. Nevertheless, some moderns, at the head of whom we would place Dr. Colles of Dublin, Dupuytren, and Sir Benjamin Brodie, main- tained that luxations of the wrist-joint from accident were either impossible, or, at all events, exceedingly rare, and expressed their opinion that authors had, under the erroneous name of dislocation, really described an accident now pretty generally believed to be a frac- ture of the radius in the immediate vicinity of the wrist-joint, with displacement back- wards of the carpus and hand. Velpeau followed these, and not only de- nied the reality of such an accident as simple dislocation of the wrist, but gave his reasons why he believed that no such accident could occur, observing, that the strong tendons of the flexor muscles of the forearm, bound down by the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, must render impossible any luxation of the bones of the forearm forwards at the wrist-joint, during any forcible bending back- wards of the hand, such as might, for example, be produced by a fall on the palm ; and, 2nd!y, that the common and radial extensor (re- strained as they arc by the posterior annular ligament), oppose any luxation of the bones of the forearm backwards at the wrist during a movement which should produce an extreme flexion of the hand forwards. Velpeau, however, admitted, that from ex- periments he had made on the dead subject, he had learned that efforts of a different order, such as a forcible pulling, accompanied with a simultaneous bending of the hand, whether backwards or forwards, inwards or outwards, might break every tissue, and produce a lux- ation without any fracture of the radius. Such cases, he says, he believes will always be ac- companied with a wound of the integuments, and are not to be looked upon as the simple dislocations we are now considering, nor should they, in his opinion, enter into the same category with them. In support of the doctrine, that most, if not all, of the simple dislocations of the wrist, of the authors already alluded to, were really fractures of the lower extremity of the radius, we confess that one observation of Velpeau appears particularly strong, viz., that for the last thirty or forty years in which the question has been discussed, and the reality of the luxation disputed, no one has brought forward one instance which, rigidly examined, he would look upon as an incontestable exam- ple of a simple luxation of the wrist-joint. He admits that the solitary case adduced by Voillemier is a very notable one, and de- serving of attention, but that in his opinion, the question is still open as to whether a sim- ple luxation of the wrist-joint can occur, without there being at the same time any lesion of the edges of the articular surfaces, or of the integuments. We think we cannot do better than here give an abstract of this remarkable case, given by Voillemier.* " Levillain Louis, set. 27, of a vigorous con- stitution, on the 28th Sept. 1839, was ad- mitted under the care of M. le Noris, into the Hopital des Cliniques (Paris) ; at the moment of admission he was in a hopeless state, completely insensible ; the pupils largely dilated, the respiration stertorous. Amongst other lesions from which the patient had suf- fered, in consequence of his having fallen into a court-yard from a window three stories high, to the ground, it was noticed specially that the left wrist-joint -presented a very remarkable deformity, and of such a nature that Voille- mier, prejudiced as he said he felt he was, that a luxation of the wrist was a great rarity, if not an impossibility, could not help saying to his colleague, M. Dumeiil, present at the examination of the patient, that the case be- * See Archives Ge'ne'rales do Medecine, Deeemb. 1839, p. 400.