1183 TOUCH. usually referrible, in the first place, to the influence of cold and damp; and it is especi- ally liable to occur in persons of a rheumatic or gouty diathesis. That even the sedative influence of cold may be propagated along the nerve-trunks, and that its anaesthetic effect is not due to its peripheral influence alone, appears from the circumstance remarked by Dr. Graves (loc. cit.), that the paralysis induced by handling snow, or by immersing the hands in freezing mixtures for some little time, is not confined to the hands and fingers, but extends to the muscles and surface of the fore-arms. And it was also remarked by the same eminent physician, that in a case in which the inside of the ring finger had been wounded by a blunt needle, and a partial anaesthesia induced, the same effect was per- ceived in the little finger (alike supplied by the ulnar nerve), obviously through the extension of the paralysing influence towards the centre, so as to affect the trunk higher up than the point at which its branch to the little finger was given off. Dr. Graves further cites, as an example of anaesthesia having its seat in disordered nutrition of the peripheral nerves, and gradually advancing along their trunks towards the centres, the curious Epidemie de Paris, which occurred in the spring and sum- mer of 1828. " It began (frequently in per- sons of good constitution) with sensations of pricking and severe pain in the integuments of the hands and feet, accompanied by so acute a degree of sensibility, that the patients could not bear these parts to be touched by the bed-clothes. After some time, a few days, or even a few hours, a diminution, or even abolition of sensation took place in the affected members ; they became incapable of distin- guishing the shape, texture, or temperature of bodies, the power of motion declined, and finally they were observed to become al- together paralytic. The injury was not con- fined to the hands and feet alone, but, ad- vancing with progressive pace, extended over the whole of both extremities. Persons lay in bed powerless and helpless, and continued in this state for weeks and months. Every remedy which the ingenuity of the French practitioners could suggest was tried, and proved ineffectual. In some, the stomach and bowels were deranged, and this affection terminated in a bad state of health, and even in death ; in others, the vital organs, cerebral, respiratory, and digestive, were in the same state as before their illness, and their appetites were good, but still they remained paralytics. At last, at some period of the disease, motion and sensation gradually returned, and a re- covery generally took place, although, in some instances, the paralysis was very capricious, vanishing and again re-appearing. In the fatal cases, no evidence could be obtained, from the most diligent search, of any lesion, functional or organic, in the brain, cerebellum, or spinal marrow."* These phenomena are * Op. Cit. p. 504. scarcely explicable on any other hypothesis than that of some general cause (probably a morbid matter circulating in the blood) affect- ing the nutrition and functional activity of the nerve-trunks, rather than of their centres. That anaesthesia may proceed from various causes whose operation is limited to the sen- sorial centres, is a matter of every-day ex- perience. It is, however, where they have suffered from some obvious lesion of a com- paratively restricted character, that the proof of this is most complete ; for although there is strong ground for believing that the ordi- nary operation of anaesthetic agents and nar- cotic poisons is confined to the cerebrum and sensorium, yet we could not positively affirm such to be the case, since, when taken into the blood, they may act not only on the sen- sorial centres, but on the entire nervous system. All the phemomena of narcoctic poisoning, however, indicate that opium, al- cohol, &c, single out the cerebrum and sen- sory ganglia for their special action, just as strychnia singles out the spinal cord; the suspension of the functional activity of the former being usually complete, before there is the slightest affection of the latter. That a failure of the circulation in the encephalon produces complete and universal anaesthesia while it lasts, was fully proved by Sir A. Cooper's well-known experiment; and it seems probable that many of the structural lesions which manifest themselves in paralysis of motion and sensation produce this suspen- sion of functional power in parts not them- selves affected by disease, chiefly in virtue of the derangement of the intra-cranial circula- tion which they invole. There is one of the phenomena of the anaes- thesia produced by the accidental or inten- tional introduction of poisonous substances into the blood, which seems deserving of more special notice ; viz., the suspension of the power of receiving painful impressions, with- out the obliteration of the ordinary tactile sensibility. This is a frequent result of the exhibition of ether and chloroform; and does not seem to depend upon a mere blunting of the ordinary sensibility. It has been especi- ally noticed, also, in cases of lead poisoning, in which state it seems to be more frequent than complete anaesthesia. According to M. Beau, the insensibility to pain, which he terms analgesia, may be observed in a large propor- tion of cases of " saturnine intoxication." " We must not confine ourselves," he remarks, " to asking the patient whether he feels, but limit our question to the sensation of pain. Parts which are thus insensible to pain are so also to tickling. This form of anaesthesia may affect the entire surface, being, however, most remarkable in the extremities, and especially the upper ones. It may extend even to the mucous membranes, and especially those which are normally endowed with great sen- sibility, — as the uvula, isthmus faucium, nares, or conjunctiva, — any of which parts may be tickled without the usual conse-