993 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). plication for the removal of a certain form of sarcocele ; a suggestion, the credit of which has been improperly assumed in recent years by C. J. Maunoir, of Geneva. The influ- ence of pressure in causing partial atrophy of the testicle, is somtimes remarked in old cases of hydrocele and hcematocele, in which the gland has been long subjected to com- pression from the retained fluid. It has been said that the testicles waste in those persons who strictly adhere to their monastic vows, but I am not aware that there is sufficient authority for this remark. In persons who marry, after many years of ab- stinence from sexual intercourse, the testicles undergo a certain degree of enlargement. It is a great error to suppose that sexual connec- tion in early life is essential for the preservation of these organs. In cases of enlargement of the prostate the ejaculatory canals sometimes become completely obstructed. Under these circumstances, the semen secreted under ex- citement having no means of escape, encum- bers the testicles for a time, but afterwards becomes absorbed, and it is said that atrophy of these glands sometimes follows; but I have never observed any instance of wasting of the organs from this cause. As examples of atrophy of the testicles from loss of nervous in- fluence, may be adduced cases of paraplegia, in which these organs have been known to waste. Portal mentions the case of a robust man, aged thirty-five, who was attacked with painter's colic, attended with great debility of the lower extremities. The testicles dimin- ished considerably ; and although he after- wards recovered from the paralysis of his limbs, these glands always remained wasted ; and the man was incapable of the act of gene- ration.* In the xxth volume of the "Medical and Physical Journal," there is an account of a case of recovery after fracture, with partial dislocation of the first and second lumbar vertebra;, followed by paraplegia, in which, three years afterwards, the testicles were found entirely obliterated. It has been stated that the testicles sometimes waste from in- juries, or from compression of the spine at the origin of the spermatic nerves. In a man who had received a blow on the lum- bar region, the testicles gradually wasted away. 7 The most common cause of atrophy of the the testicle is the disturbance in its organisa- tion consequent upon inflammation. As the inflammatory process ceases, the enlarged gland not only becomes reduced to its original size, but' it sometimes slowly but steadily diminishes, till at length very little vestige of it remains Mr. Hunter has related three cases in which the testicle decayed in this way.J 1 have met with several instances of atrophy arising from this cause, and there are few surgeons of experience who have not witnessed cases of the kind. Wasting of the * Cours d'Anatomie Medicale, t. v. p. 434. f Baillie's Works, by Wardrop, vol ii. p. 315. f Treatise on the Venereal Disease. VOL. IV. testicle has been observed to occur after an attack of orchitis in mumps, arising as it is supposed from the translation of inflamma- tion from the parotid to the testicle. Two cases of cynanche parotidea in the adult, in which atrophy took place in the gland chiefly affected, are related by Dr. R. Hamilton.* I have witnessed one case, in which the patient attributed the loss of the gland to an attack of mumps in his infancy. Wasting is more liable to occur after inflammation of the body of the gland than after consecutive inflamma- tion in which the epididymis is the part chiefly affected. One or both testicles have been found to waste in persons who have indulged too much in sexual intercourse or been addicted to onanism. Baron Larrey met with several cases of atrophy from excessive venery and abuse of strong drinks amongst the soldiers of the Imperial Guard.f Sir B. Broclie has recorded two cases in which wasting was occasioned by over-excitement; in one from onanism, in the other from sexual intercourse.J I have also witnessed an instance of total atrophy of the left testicle in a person addicted to excessive masturbation. In this case, and probably in the others just quoted, the wasting was preceded by an attack of inflammation induced by inordinate excitement. It is a common belief that wasting of the testicle is liable to be induced by the long- continued use of iodine. I have not met with any instance of it, and there are few cases in which the evidence is such as to render it at all clear that the decay of the gland was really occasioned by the remedy. M. Cullerier has published the case of a young man who took from twenty-five to thirty drops of the tinc- ture of iodine for a period of three months for the cure of an obstinate gonorrhaea. This was followed by a state of impotency and partial wasting of the testicles, which lasted a twelvemonth, and the organs never regained their former size and vigour. M. Cullerier mentions another case of temporary loss of virile power occurring from the use of the iodine of iron.$ I feel convinced, however, that if iodine produces wasting of the testicle at all, it does so so rarely, that the liability cannot be regarded as any objection to the free and long-continued use of this valuable remedy. Atrophy of the testicle has been remarked in elephantiasis of the Greeks, a disease in which tubercles are developed in various parts of the skin. Dr. Adams, in an account of the cases of that disease observed in Maderia, states that all those who were attacked with it before the age of puberty never acquired the distinguishing marks of that change in the constitution, and their testicles diminished in size, and that in those affected later in life the testicles became * Philos. Trans. Edinb. vol. ii. art. ix. p. 59. f Me'moires de Chirurgie Militaires, vol. ii. p. 66. j London Medical and Phvsical Journal, vol. Ivi. p. 297. ยง Me'moires de la Societe' de Chirurgie de Paris, t. i. 3 s