TASTE. 858 On the other hand, as Wagner has truly re- marked, if the surface of the tongue near the root be touched with a clean dry glass rod, or a drop of distilled water be placed upon it, a slightly bitterish sensation is produced ; and this, if the pressure be continued, passes into that of nausea, and if the pressure be increased even excites vomiting. The feeling of nausea may be excited by mechanical irritation of any part of the surface of the fauces and soft palate ; and this feeling is certainly much more allied to that of taste than to that of touch. Further, it has been observed by Henle, that if a small current of air be di- rected upon the tongue, it gives rise to a cool saline taste like that of saltpetre. Thus we find that the peculiar effects of sapid substances upon the nerves of taste may be imitated to a certain extent by other agencies ; and it also appears that the sensations excited by these vary according to the part of the gustative surface on which they operate; me- chanical or electrical stimulation of the front of the tongue giving rise to a kind of saline taste, whilst mechanical stimulation applied to the back of the tongue and fauces excites the feelings of bitterness and nausea. One of the conditions requisite for the due exercise of the gustative sense, is a tempera- ture not departing far on either side from that which is natural to the body. It appears from the recent experiments of Prof. fi. H. Weber *, that if the tongue be kept immersed for nearly a minute in water of about 125°, the taste of sugar brought in contact with it, either in powder or solution, is no longer perceived ; the sense of touch, usually so delicate at the tip of the tongue, being also rendered imperfect. A similar imperfection of taste and touch was produced by immers- ing the tongue for the same length of time in a mixture of water and broken ice. Nerves of Tasle. — Much controversy has taken place upon the question whether or not there be a special nerve of taste ; and whether the lingual branch of the fifth pair, or the glosso-pharyngeal, possesses the best claim to this title. The principal points of this con- troversy have been already noticed [See Fifth Pair and Glosso-Pharyngeal] ; a short review of it, however, with a notice of the most recent inquiries on the subject, will be here desirable. That the glosso-p/iaryn- geal is the special nerve of taste, and that its complete section on both sides destroys the sensibility to gustative impressions, was first affirmed by Panizza; and his conclusions, adopted by Dr. M. Hall and Mr. Broughton f, have been since, to a certain extent, sup- ported by the experiments of Valentin J and Bruns.$ The grounds on which this doc- trine rests are briefly as follows: — After re- * Miiller's Archiv. 1847, S. 342. f Sixth Report of British Association; p. 125 of Transactions of Sections. % De Fuuctionibus Nervorum Ccrebralimn, &c, 1849, p. 41. § De Nervis Cetaceorum, Tub. 1830; quoted by Mtiller. covering from the depression which is the immediate consequence of the operation, a dog whose glosso-pharyngeal nerves have been divided is said to eat pieces of meat rendered bitter with colocynth, and to drink milk and water dosed with the same drug, without any repugnance; whereas if the lingual nerves be divided and the glosso-pharyngeals left entire, the bitter morsel is rejected as soon as it reaches the back of the mouth, although it may have been at first seized very hastily. But, on the contrary, it has been affirmed by Kornfeld *, with whom Miiller and Gurlt were associated, by Dr. Alcock-p, by Dr. John Reid J, by Guyot and Cazalis §, by Magendie||, by LongetIF, and by Volkmann and Bidder **, that distinct indications may be obtained of the persistence of the sense of taste, after complete section of the glosso- pharyngeal nerves on both sides. Of a dog in which the nerve had been divided before giving off a single filament, Dr. J. Reid states : — "I have repeatedly fed that dog with morsels of animal food from my hand ; and after he had taken several morsels in this way, which he readily swallowed, I then pre- sented a morsel similar in size to the others, and with the colocynth, concealed in a way that he could not see it ; but no sooner was it taken into the mouth than it was rejected with evident symptoms of disgust. This was repeated more than once." Bidder found that although two dogs whose glosso-pharyn- gei had been divided, swallowed pieces of flesh soaked in an infusion of colocynth, which another dog whose nerves were uninjured at once rejected, yet certain movements of the lips and tongue were observed, which showed that these were not altogether relished. It is obvious that, in such an inquiry, positive evidence of the continuance of the sense of taste is more conclusive than the negative evidence from which its ahsence may be in- ferred. It is right to bear in mind that, as Wagner has pointed out, dogs when they are hungry will devour meat however strongly seasoned with bitter drugs, though all their nerves be entire. Dr. Reid makes the re- mark, in explanation of the results of Panizza, that one of the dogs on which he had divided the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, would eat the morsel of meat containing colocynth, rather than lose it, when very hungry ; though he refused it, if he saw any prospect of procuring another free from the bitter. Wherever any such evidence of the persistence of the sense of taste was obtained, this appeared specially to exist in the anterior portion of the mouth. * De Fuuctionibus Nervorum Lingure Experi- menta. Berol. 1836. f Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, 1836. j Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, Jan. 1838. § Archives Gene'rales de Medecine, 1839. || Lecons sur les Fonctions du Systeme Nerveux,. 1839, tom.ii. ^[ Anatomie et Physiologie du Systeme Nervcux, 1842, torn. ii. p. 225. ** Articles Nervenphysiohgie and Schmecken in Wagner's Mandworterbuch der Physiologie.