1192 TUN1CATA. Family PvrosomiDjE. Synonyms : Lucies composees, Savigny ; Tuniciers reunis, pars, Lamarck ; " les agreges" pars, Cuvier; Sal- 2)iens agrcges, Blainville; Lucidce, MacLeay; Pyrosomiens, Milne-Edwards and Van Bene- den. The Pyrosomians are represented by three or four species of the single genus Pyrosoma. They inhabit the Mediterranean and the warmer parts of the ocean ; in the former at times their abundance is a source of dread to the fishermen, sometimes even completely clogging their nets ; and in certain oceanic regions they are met with in almost incredible profusion. Their delicate and transparent forms, their elegant tints, and their unrivalled phosphorescence render them the most beau- tiful of Molluscs, and objects of admiration to the naturalist and the voyager. Mr. Bennett relates that, during a voyage to India, the ship, proceeding at a rapid rate, continued during an entire night to pass through distinct but extensive fields of these Molluscs, float- ing, and glowing as they floated, on all sides of her course. Enveloped in a flame of bright phosphorescent light, and gleaming with a greenish lustre, the Pyrosomes, seen at night, in vast shoals upwards of a mile in breadth, and stretching out till lost in the distance, present a spectacle the glory of which may be easily imagined. The vessel, as it cleaves the gleaming mass, throws up strong flashes of light, as if ploughing through liquid fire, which illuminates the hull, the sails, and the ropes with a strange unearthly radiance. Genus Pyrosoma, Peron. — Common body semi-cartilaginous, floating, cylindrical, 2 to 14 inches long, \ to 3 inches in circumference ; bearing externally numerous pointed pro- cesses, hollow and mammillated within, and open at one of its extremities only. Animals associated in a verticillate arrangement, having two orifices, one at each extremity ; elongated, fusiform, tapering at the outer, and obtuse at the inner extremity ; united at the circum- ference of the middle portion, by the fusion of the tests to one another into rings, more or less regular, and varying in number accord- ing to species, so that the whole forms the long cylinder above described. Monochitonida. — Family SalpidjE, Forbes. Synonyms : Salpce, Auct.; Thalides, pars, and Lucies simples, Savigny; Biphores, Brugiere ; Biphoridce, Mac Leay; Tuniciers Ubres, pars, Lamarck; " les isolees," pars, Cuvier; Salpacea, pars, and Salpiens simples, Blainville; Salpiens, Van Beneden. The Salpians are free, swimming in the ocean ; plentiful in the Me- diterranean and the warm parts of the ocean; occurring also occasionally in the Norwegian and North British seas. In shape they re- semble a short and wide tube, sometimes oval or cylindrical, sometimes more or less square in its transverse section, and varying consi- derably in size according to species, from half an inch to 8 or 10 inches in length. The test is thin and transparent, open at the ends and often supplied with terminal and lateral processes. The mantle lines the test, and is more or less adherent throughout; its interior constitutes the branchial cavity; it is provided at one of the terminal openings with a more or less perfect valvular apparatus; and contains a branchial fold traversing it obliquely. Near one extremity the chief viscera are grouped together into a conspicuous mass (the " visceral nucleus" of authors), to which the brilliant tints of the liver usually impart an orange, brown, or reddish hue (Jig. 772.). Fig. 772. Salpce, isolated and associated. A. S. runcinata, solitary; B. S. runcinata, asso- ciated ; C. S. zonaria, aggregated. This family is of considerable interest on account of their singular mode of reproduc- tion, discovered by Chamisso, and on account of the philosophical generalisations partly founded thereon by Steenstrup. These ani- mals occur under two distinct conditions, being at one time solitary, and at another as- sociated into circular or lengthened groups — termed garlands, cordons, ribands, and chains 0%- 772. B and c). The Salpa-chains, vary- ing in length from a few inches to many feet, swim through the tranquil water with a regular serpentine movement, and are often regarded by sailors as sea-serpents ; but when taken from the water the individuals of the group are easily detached. Thus, in conse- quence of accidents, separate members of these chains are often met with in seas abounding with these Molluscs ; but other, separate, Salpce are also met with that have never been united to others, and differ considerably in form from the associated ones (Jig. 772. a). Chamisso, however, discovered that such 2)ermanently solitary Salpce do not belong to species distinct from those united in chains, however dissimilar (and they are usually so dissimilar as to appear even generically dis- tinct), but are either the parents or the pro- geny, as the case may be, of the aggregate forms ; and that chained Salpce do not produce chained Salpce, but solitary Salpce, which in their turn do not produce solitary, but chained Salpce. Consequently, as Chamisso graphi- cally observed, " a i&z/pa-mother is not like its daughter or its own mother, but resembles its sister, its grand-daughter, and its grand- mother."* This family is mainly represented by the * Forbes, British BIolluscs, p. 48.