1529 WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). above the annular ligament), while the fingers of the opposite hand are placed on the other extremity, which is placed beneath this fibrous band, we readily perceive a "frotte- ment " which is quite peculiar. This " f'rotte- ment" is caused by the passage to and fro, under the true annular ligament of the wrist, of small foreign bodies which are not unlike barley grains or those of boiled rice. Their forms are exceedingly variable. They are usually of a white colour, and have a polished surface. They are found in vast numbers in the same cyst, mixed with a more or less con- siderable quantity of glairy synovial liquid. They are ordinarily free from all adhesions to the parietes of the bursa. Many theories have been formed as to the origin of these little bodies found loose in the bursa, about the wrist, and elsewhere. Dupuytren thought he had established the theory that they were hydatids. Laennec and Raspail agreed with him in this view; but Bosc, to whom Dupuytren referred, dissented. The last-mentioned naturalist looked upon them as concretions of lymph of an adipo- cerous nature. He says, " They are not to be considered as ' hydatids,' because they have not given any sign of life on escaping from the cyst." On dividing these bodies, he found them uniform throughout, whilst that of hydatids are always hollow ; and again, because submitted to a strong lens, they have appeared to him to be nothing else than an inorganic mass, whether he examined them when recent or dried." Sir Benjamin Brodie's opinion now seems generally to prevail. It is adopted by Nelaton * and other French physiologists : — " There seems to be no doubt but that these loose bodies have their origin in the coagu- lated lymph which was etFused in the early stages of the disease ; and I had opportuni- ties, by the examination of several cases, to trace the steps of their gradual formation. At first the coagulated lymph forms irregular masses of no determined shape, which after- wards, by the motion and pressure of the contiguous parts, are broken down into small portions. These by degrees become of a regular form, and assume a firmer consist- ence, and at last are converted into the oval bodies above alluded to.""j" Examples of these have been seen in the svnovial sheaths of the radial extensors as well as on the back of the wrist in the course of the extensors of the fingers. But it is, nevertheless, certain that the bursa of the flexor tendons, situated in front of the wrist and carpus, and behind the true annular liga- ment of this region, is the special locality in which these foreign bodies are most frequently found. Painful Crepitation of Tendons around the Wrist. —We notice, sometimes, around the carpus and in the inferior extremity of the * En 1819 M. Brodie donna une interpretation satisfaisante de leur etiologie en les rattachant aux epanchemens sero-albumeux. (Nelaton, Pathclogie Chirurgicale.") j- Brodie on the Diseases of the Joints. forearm, a swelling which is peculiar in this, that, whenever the tendons around which the swelling forms are moved, there is thereby elicited a very peculiar crepitation. This crepitation is noticed along the course of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and in that of the long abductor and short extensor of the thumb. This swelling is not globular, nor is it so well defined as a ganglion, but may be said to represent in its form a portion of a spiral which, parting from the dorsal surface of the forearm, soon turns round the external part of the radius to gain the root of the first metacarpal bone. This swelling seems to be of an inflamma- tory nature, and is occasionally accompanied with a superficial redness of the skin ; and pressure on this part becomes painful to the patient. If the surgeon places his thumb or fingers on the postero-external surface of the forearm, near to the wrist-joint, where the ob- long swelling exists, and at the same time de- sires the patient to move the hand by flexing and extending the wrist-joint, or exert the muscles, the peculiar crepitation which cha- racterises this lesion is soon perceived. It is not very easy to convey an idea of this crepitation; but it has been compared by many to that produced by the crushing to- gether, with our fingers, portions of finely powdered starch, or to the effect which we feel produced when we walk over snow. When once recognised, it is perceived to be quite different from that crepitation which is produced by the movement on each other of the fragments of broken bones or the rubbing- together of roughened articular surfaces. This disease has for its anatomical seat the fibro-synovial sheaths of the tendons already mentioned. These extensor tendons, namely, the two extensor radialis longior and brevior, as well as those of the long abductor and short extensor of the thumb, cross each other, each in special sheaths or canals formed on the back part and external edge of the lower extremity of the radius ; and if inflammation attack the lining membrane of these fibro-synovial sheaths, it is plain that, in this anatomical arrangement, there may be seen many circum- stances to favour the development of this crepitation. This affection has not, we believe, ever been observed to have come on sponta- neously, but generally to have arisen from some violent and continued efforts of the wrist and hand. It has been noticed in soldiers and masons, and in those who are in the habit of twisting the forearm, as in the act of forced pronation of the forearm of washerwomen in wringing clothes. The tumefaction, the swelling, pain and heat, and the crepitation also, once com- menced, augment generally for four, six, or eight days ; and if the patient be guilty of any imprudence, the evil is maintained to the same degree even to the twelfth or fourteenth day, after which it ordinarily terminates in resolution. (^Robert Adams.)