11.33 TONGUE. ing the anterior pillar of the fauces ; and arrived at the sides of the tongue, it again spreads out, and its fibres mingle with those of the styloglossus, some of them passing transversely into the medullary structure. It lies immediately beneath the mucous mem- brane, and in front of the tonsil. Action : To constrict the fauces (hence its name, con- strictor isthmi faucium) by depressing the soft palate and raising the sides of the tongue. The styloglossus. — A small slender muscle arising by a pointed tendinous origin from the inferior half of the styloid process of the tem- poral bone, and also slightly from the stylo- maxillary ligament. It passes downwards and inwards to the base of the tongue, opposite to which it expands and becomes flattened; a few of its fibres bend inwards, the majority being continued longitudinally along the side of the tongue, where they may be traced to near the apex, contributing to the formation of the lateral lingual muscle. As they pass forward, they mingle with those fibres of the hyoglossus that have a similar direction, and with the inferior lingual. Relations: Ex- ternally, with the parotid and submaxillary glands, the external carotid artery, the facial artery, the Whartonian duct, the lingual branch of the fifth nerve, and the stylomax- illary ligament ; internally, with the stylo- hyoid ligament, internal carotid, superior constrictor of the pharynx, the jugular vein, and hyoglossus muscle. Action: To retract the tongue, to raise and expand its base, and to render it concave from side to side by rais- ing its borders. The hyoglossus.— Flat, thin, and ascending nearly vertically, this muscle approaches a quadrilateral form ; but, from the dorsum of the tongue ascending as it passes forwards, its anterior border is much larger than its posterior. It arises from the posterior ex- tremity, and from the superior border and outer surface of the greater cornua of the os hyoides, and from the body in their immediate neighbourhood. From this double origin the fibres ascend in two distinct sets. Those from the greater cornua, passing up nearly parallel to one another, are inserted into the sides of the tongue; those from the body expand as they ascend, arch forwards, and, gaining the side of the tongue at a point su- perior and anterior to the other, pass forward along the border of the tongue, and unite with the styloglossus to form the lateral lingual. These two portions are separated below by a cellular interval ; and above a few fibres of the styloglossus pass in between them. Al- bums has described these as three distinct muscles : one, the cerato-glossus, arising from the greater cornua ; another, the basio-glossus, from the body : and a third, intermediate, the chondro-glossus, taking its origin from the lesser cornua. Relations: The external relations of this muscle are, -— from above downwards, with the submaxillary gland, the hypoglossal nerve, the mylohyoid, stylo- hyoid, and digastric muscles; internally, it covers the glosso-phar)ngeal nerve, the middle constrictor of the pharynx, the lingual ar- tery, the stylohyoid ligament, the geniohyo- glossus, anil, at its attachment to the tongue, the inferior lingualis, which separates it from the last mentioned. Bichat erroneously states that the lingual artery ordinarily passes be- tween its two origins. Action: To depress the sides of the tongue and render its dorsum convex; to retract the tongue and draw it downwards. It is more frequently associated with other muscles than isolated in its action ; and accordingly as it acts alone or together with other muscles, either as concurring with them or antagonising them, so its actions vary. The genioglossus, the largest of all the mus- cles of the tongue, which it connects to the lower jaw, is of a radiated or fan-shape, and is placed vertically in immediate contact with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises from the superior genial tubercle of the lower jaw by a tendinous tuft from which the muscular fibres radiate to their different destinations. The most anterior, the shortest, forming the anterior free margin of the muscle, pass up- wards and forwards to the tongue, having reached the under surface of which, they are continued, according to Cruveilhier, on that surface to the tip ; but in all the specimens that I have examined they appeared to con- tinue an oblique course to the dorsum. The succeeding fibres pass more and more back- wards, and having reached the inferior surface of the tongue, are directed vertically to the dorsum, into the middle line of the whole of which they are inserted, from apex to base. The two muscles may be separated up to the point of their immergence into the tongue, but beyond that line their separation is no longer possible; for, having entered the tongue, they come into relation with the transverse intrinsic fibres, which they cut at right angles, and interlacing with which they pass to the cutis of the dorsum, forming part of the vertical intrinsic muscle, from the rest of which they are not to be dis- tinguished except by their mesial situation. The fibres do not curve outwards, as sup- posed by Marjolin, to form part of the transverse lingual; nor do they expand at all at their insertion, as stated by Cru- veilhier ; there is no disposition to lateral divergence in any part of their course ; on the contrary, their direction is rather upwards and inwards throughout, and their insertion extremely narrow — a mere line — as it might be imagined it would be, when its great longitudinal extent is remembered. The longitudinal furrow is, I think, mainly produced by the traction of this muscle in the median line. The most inferior fibres pass backwards and downwards, and are inserted into the hyoglossal ligament. Some of the fibres immediately above pass backwards, ac- cording to some authors, to the sides of the pharynx, where, uniting with the middle con- strictor, they form the genio-pharyngiens of Winslow. Relations: Internally with its fellow, being separated merely by areolar tissue con-