1290 URINE. no doubt that the change in the constitution of the urine must be in relation to the same cause; for the urine is separated from the blood, and was previously an integral constituent of it: and because, further, every alteration in the constitution of the blood must involve corresponding changes in the secretions and excretions, and more especially in the urine. Since like effects follow like causes, and since in inflammatory affections the vascular system similarly participates in the disturbance, we may assume a priori that similar changes will occur in the urine,—a point confirmed by ex- perience. " The urine discharged during inflammations is usually termed febrile urine. There is no objection to this term, since the cause of the change in the urine must be sought for in the fever. I shall not, however, introduce the term ' febrile urine' here, since it is more than probable that the changes in the compo- sition of the urine vary according as the cha- racter of the fever is synochal or torpid. " My analyses show, in fact, that the relative proportions of urea in fevers of a torpid and of a synochal character are different; and al- though the analyses are not yet sufficiently numerous to establish the difference with cer- tainty, it still appears to me to be a point of sufficient importance to demand attention, and one that should be carefully worked out. In order to take a correct view of the compo- sition of the urine, we must bear in mind the composition of the blood, the reaction of the vascular system, and the diet, since the mix- ture of the proximate constituents is de- pendent upon these circumstances. " The following are the general characteris- tics of the urine in inflammatory affections. It is darker than usual, and of a yellow, brown, or reddish-brown tint; it has an acid reaction, and is generally of a high specific gravity. With respect to its most important consti- tuents, the urea is either absolutely increased, or is at the ordinary physiological average, or may be a little below it; the uric acid is always absolutely increased, and so are the extractive matters, especially the alcoholic extract. The salts are always absolutely di- minished, especially the chloride of sodium. The sulphates, on the other hand, either ap- proximate to the physiological average, or are not far below it. " Assuming as the mean of numerous ana- lyses, that the urea constitutes 39 per cent, of the solid residue of normal urine, 1 have found it as high as 46*8 in inflammatory af- fections. (In abdominal typhus, with a quick small pulse, I have seen it as low as 22.) " The physiological average of uric acid may be placed at'1'5 per cent, of the solid residue ; in the phlogoses I have observed it amount to nearly 3 per cent., and Becquerel even found it rise as high as 5 9 per cent. The quan- tity of extractive matter, &c, which in normal urine amounts to 23-5 per cent, of the solid residue, rises in inflammations to 43 per cent. The fixed salts, which in healthy urine con- stitute about 25 per cent, of the solid residue* diminish here to 12 per cent. The sulphate of potash, which in healthy urine forms about 10 per cent, of the solid residue, I found to vary in inflammation between 7 and 9 per cent. " The composition of the urine becomes changed if much blood is abstracted during the inflammation. It becomes clearer, speci- fically lighter, and the amount of urea de- creases absolutely and relatively. " At the height of the inflammation, or (per- haps it would be better to say) at the time •when the fever puts on the synochal type most strongly, the urine is usually clear and deeply coloured ; it subsequently forms a sediment of a yellow or red colour, composed of uric acid and urates." I shall now proceed to describe the state of the urine as it is observed in different diseases. Pericarditis.— A managed 36. Acute pe- ricarditis ; pulse 10S, full, and hard; urine clear, deep red colour; specific gravity 1023'5; indications of albumen by heat. Analysis showed : — Water 937-50 Solid residue - - - - 62-50 Urea 2930 Uric acid - - - T50 Extractive matters - - - 22-70 Earthy phosphates - 0"55 Sulphate of potash - - - 4-89 Phosphate of soda - - - 0 56 Chloride of sodium, and carbonate of soda - WO In the above case, after a large quantity of blood had been drawn, the urine changed as follows. Colour, that of health; acid re- action ; devoid of albumen ; specific gravity 1018. Its composition was now,— Water 960-10 Solid residue - - - 39 90 Urea 17-50 Uric acid - - - 0'99 Extractive matters - - 15-10 Fixed salts - - - 3"G5 The first of these analyses is that of in- flammatory urine. The second shows the effects of the copious bleedings in reducing the excretion nearer to the normal standard. With respect to the presence of albumen in the urine in this and other inflammatory affections unconnected with disease of the kidneys, there is in my mind no doubt what- ever that the opinion is founded in error. There is no institution in the world at which the question has been so thoroughly investi- gated as at Guy's Hospital; and our daily ex- perience still confirms the opinions arrived at by Dr. Bright in his first experiments. It will be observed that the test of heat (a most inefficient one in itself) is alone referred to in the above-described case; and I have little doubt the precipitate produced was composed of phosphate of lime, a common source of