974 TERATOLOGY. C. F. Wolff has distinctly affirmed, that a double-yolked egg is equivalent to a double ovum; that the produce of its incubation would be twins ; and that a double monster can only proceed from a single yolk contain- ing a double germ. Examples of double em- bryos of birds sometimes occur at the full period of incubation, in which both are com- plete, and there is no union, excepting at the umbilicus. It is barely possible that each of these embryos may have been developed from a separate yolk, and that in the course of incubation the two yolks have come to coa- lesce, in consequence of external pressure, or other causes. Towards the conclusion of the period of incubation, when the yolk usually enters the abdomen of the fcetus, we may suppose, in the case before us, a partial en- trance of the common yolk into the abdomen of each embryo, and thus, upon the subse- quent contraction of the umbilical aperture, the union of the two embryos may be effected. We learn, from the accurately-detailed ob- servation of C. F. Wolff, previously referred to in my monograph, that two completely separate foetuses may be formed in the bird's egg upon a single yolk, and within a single germinal and vascular area. The egg, in this instance, had been incubated six days, and both the embryos were at once so com- plete and so distinct, that there is no reason to believe they would have been united till the period when the entrance of the yolk into the abdomen of both, and the contraction of the umbilical apertures, had brought them together. In a dozen double-yolked eggs, which Prof. Allen Thompson brought to incubation, he never succeeded in obtaining a double mon- ster, nor even two embryos, at the full period, from any of them. In several instances he found that one yolk only had been productive. All this proves that such double-yolked eggs may produce twins, but that the forma- tion of a double monster is not dependent on them. It is highly probable that in the same manner, in Mammalia, the arrival in the uterus of two impregnated ova, in close proximity with one another, will be attended with the production, not of a double monster, but of twins. The complete fusion of these twins seems to me quite impossible. One of my chief arguments against the hypothesis of fusion of originally separate germs is the important fact, which I derive from my own investi- gations and from those of others, that double monsters form one series, among whose seve- ral members the degrees and modes of devia- tion from singleness gradually increase, and pass, without one abrupt step, from the ad- dition of a single ill-developed limb to the nearly complete formation of two perfect beings. Now if this be true, no hypothesis can be acceptable if it do not plausibly ex- plain the origin of the whole series of double monsters, or if, though it may suffice to ex- plain the facts in one part of the series, those in another part are opposed to it. And here is a fair objection against the hypothesis of fusion of two originally perfect and separate embryos. Grant that we might explain by it the formation of several of the more perfect instances of duplicity; still, if the same hypo- thesis is altogether opposed by the simpler forms of duplicity, it is surely not tenable. For example, it cannot account for the exist- ence on a child's sacrum of a shapeless mass, containing an isolated portion of intestine, as in Mr. Hanley's case. And still less can it explain the existence of a superfluous limb ; for the limbs are mere off-shoots, and are produced at so late a period, that if we could imagine two embryos to come in contact by their shoulders or pelvis, and a fusion of those parts to take place, we should still have to explain how one of them, leaving only an arm or a leg behind him, could for the rest of his substance, head, trunk, and all, wholly dis- appear. It was a main objection against the doctrine of Lemery, that if two germs came in contact by accident (as he supposed), they could not exhibit any regularity in their mode of attach- ment, but faces would be forced into chests, abdomens into spines, and so on. The mo- derns, who adopt the same hypothesis, sup- pose that the ova come in contact not by ac- cident, but by an attraction de soi jjour soi, of which the influence is, that the two ova being by accident set face to face or back to back, or in any other way similia similibus, will be drawn to each other, and will unite by similar parts. But, with all respect for the authority of M. Geoffroy St. Hilaire and his disciples (as Mr. Paget elegantly said in his abstract of my monograph upon double monsters), who regard this as " la regie supreme de tous les arrangements et de toutes les mo- difications organiques chez les etres com- poses," I confess that I can find no good evidence that such an attraction exists. I can see in it nothing more than a very happy expression of a fact, which it in no wise ex- plains. *The extraordinary notion of MM. Delpech and Coste, that such an attraction may be the result of electric currents, is certainly no evidence of its existence, this being entirely imaginary. And the reasoning in its favour seems no better than the facts, for I can find nothing but this kind of circle: monsters adhere by similar parts, therefore there is an attraction de soi pour soi; there is then such an attraction, and therefore double monsters so adhere. I believe, therefore, that such an attraction is hypothetical; and if it be so, surely the hypothesis which involves it and an accident as essential elements is less probable, as well as less sufficient, than that which I maintain. It is scarcely better than Lemery's, of mere accident; for it requires not only the accident of a particular position of the ova, but that of their being of the same sex, which has been said previously to be the general rule for double monsters. After all this, we conclude with the words of the learned Wolff, published in 1773 : — " Patet, igitur, monstra composita non sic oriri, ut