TERATOLOGY. 9(39 nected with the pelvis of the perfect fetus (Numan, Osiander, Haller). 4. Separate anterior or posterior extremi- ties connected with some part of the perfect foetus (W. Vrolik, Von Baer). All these varieties are indicated under the names of gastromele, pygomele, and melomele. Third Species. — The appendix is an acc- phalus with four extremities. — The union has as yet been observed only at the epigastric re- gion of the supporting fetus, through which the abdominal cavity was common to the two bodies. In the appendix the genital organs existed, but the anus was closed. In many cases, the evacuation of urine has been ob- served; the appendix showed circulation of blood; it had its own temperature, and was dependent for nutrition on the chief or perfect body. In the interior were found uropoietic organs, vessels connected with those of the chief body, and an imperfect intestinal canal (Otto, Serres). In the supporting fetus are sometimes found traces of double organs (Otto, Serres, Rosenstiel). Fourth Species. — The appendix a com- plete body with a head and four extremiti; s (Bartholinus). — This form of heteradelph makes the transition to anterior duplicity. The appendix has but to be more equally pro- portioned to the chief body, and a completely double monster is formed. The best ex- ample of this occurred in the person of a cer- tain Lazarus Colloredo, who lived for some length of time. His portrait is given by Bar- tholinus. This very peculiar appendix never took food, nor had it evacuations of faeces. But the organic and the animal life appeared to be very well developed, as its cutaneous ex- halation, its movements of different parts of its body, and the fact of its sleeping, showed. The common character, by which this whole class of heteradelphs is distinguished, consists in the comparatively smaller size, and, in ge- neral, the defective developement, of the part which is termed the parasite. Imagine this difference removed by the fuller developement of the parasite, by its obtaining all its own organic apparatus, and by its growing pari jiassu with the other, and an exact idea of complete duplicity will be formed. It will be observed also, that in the several members of this class there is a regularly graduated series, from those in which the superfluous part is only an ill-developed limb, to those in which the parasite differs from the chief in nothing but its inferior size and its depend- ence for nutrition. The cases of the last kind are, however, rare. I know but three, of which that of the said Lazarus Colloredo, de- scribed by Bartholinus, is the most remarkable. Much more commonly the parasite, even when it possesses its full numerical complement of parts, bears many signs of defective develope- ment ; it is hare-lipped, or a cyclops, or has atresia am, or some other malformation from arrest of developement. All this seems to me to [irove, that in heteradelphs there are always the rudiments of two bodies, though one or both may be defective. The beings thus formed have rarely lived man}' years after birth, and the histories of the few that have survived are, for the most part, well known in the records of medicine. Perhaps the most remarkable is that of the Chinese A-ke, of whom and his parasite little models are to be found in most of the anatomical museums of Europe. The para- site's life is, in general, only vegetative. In one of the three cases, indeed, in which it possessed all the constituent parts of a body, it moved its limbs, and appeared to have its own sensations ; but in the others, less per- fectly formed, even these signs of individual life were absent ; and in only one, that of the Chinese A-ke, had the man who bore the parasite any voluntary power over its limbs. The nutrition of the parasite appears to depend entirely on the body to which it is fixed, and through which it both receives its nutritive materials and discharges its excre- tions. The one increases and decreases in size with the other; and, of course, the para- site dies with the individual to which it is attached. The influence which, in its turn, it exercises on its supporter is not always important. In the heteradelphs that die early, death commonly ensues from the mal- formation of the main bod}'; if they survive, the parasite seems to do harm only, as an ordinaiy tumour would, by its weight, and by abstracting a certain amount of nourishment, so that those who, thus burdened, have grown up to childhood or manhood have usually been thin and delicate, like men subject to some unnatural waste. But, nevertheless, it will always be better to tolerate this evil than to risk an operation of removal, when the re- sults of all the examinations yet made prove that the parasite is deeply and by important organs connected with its supporter. The only exception which I know to the correctness of my opinion is the case in which Mr. Blizard removed, with complete success, from the sacrum of a child, a congenital tumour, which seems to have been a parasite. III. Doable Monsters. 1. Anterior duplicity. It has been already said that some of the rarer kinds of heteradelphia approximate closely to the double monsters. In all the cases that stand nearest to the transition, the parasite has been found adherent to the epi- gastric region ; and the kind of duplicity which is most closely related to them, is therefore that in which the two bodies adhere by their anterior surfaces, or what we call anterior duplicity. The most complete examples of duplicity yet known are found in this class, whose dis- tinctive characters are, that two bodies, in a state of nearly equal developement, are placed exactly opposite to one another, with their sterna connected together, and with their abdominal cavities either partially or com- pletely coalesced. Here, however, as in all