VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1312 occasionally produce another curious variety, characterised by the entire absence of hair; these naked-skinned oxen, which are called " calongos," are, like the pelones, unable to bear a cold climate, and are very delicate and weak. Another remarkable fact, relative to the oxen of South America, is recorded by M. Roulin. In Columbia, the practice of milking cows was laid aside, owing to the great extent of the farms and other circum- stances. In a few generations, the natural structure of the parts and the natural state of the function have been restored ; the se- cretion of milk taking place only so long as the calf remains with the mother, and ceasing if it dies or is removed. Hence we have a valuable confirmation of the belief previously entertained, that the continued production of milk by the European breeds of cows is a modified function in the animal economy, originating in an artificial habit kept up through many generations, and depend- ent upon a modification of structure which that habit has been the means of inducing. That the various breeds of sheep at present domesticated in Europe, have had a common origin, is not doubted by any zoologist, not- withstanding the differences in their stature and proportions, the texture and colour of their wool, the presence or absence of horns, &c. The most marked deviation from the usual type is presented by a breed of Spanish sheep, distinguished by the length and straightness of the hair, and by the length and spiral twist of the horns. Various breeds are found in Asia and Africa, as to whose specific unity with each other, and with Eu- ropean sheep, zoologists are not agreed. We have a remarkable example of climatic varia- tion, however, in the fact, that in the races spread through Persia, Tartary, and China, the tail seems replaced by a double spherical mass of fat, which forms a most awkward excrescence on the rump, and is nearly desti- tute of hair; whilst these sheep, transferred to the cold, dry pastures of Siberia, are affirmed by Ermann to lose this peculiar conformation in the course of a few generations. The sheep of Syria and Barbary, on the other hand, have an accumulation of fat in the tail itself, which is long, and sometimes attains a weight of from seventy to one hundred pounds. It is a curious and very significant fact, that the sheep of the Cape of Good Hope, which are descended from the European stocks, should exhibit the same tendency to the accumulation of fat about the rump, as is seen in the human races indigenous to that region. The sheep which were transported into South America by the Spaniards, have not multiplied so extensively as the oxen and swine ; and from their more limited diffusion, we find, as might be expected, that they ex- hibit but a comparatively slight amount of variation. The remarkable change in the depends upon the adaptation between the constitu- tion of the several races and the climates in which we find them, is deficient in solidity of foundation. character of the hair, presented by the sheep in the West Indies has been already referred to. — Among sheep, as among other do- mesticated animals, new races are continually being produced by breeders, not merely by crossing or intermixing races already con- stituted and well known, but also by taking advantage of peculiarities which occasion- ally present themselves spontaneously, and using means to perpetuate these. The fol- lowing is one of the most curious examples of this kind upon record. In the year 1791, a ewe on the farm of Seth Wright, in the state of Massachusetts, gave birth to a male lamb, which, without any known cause, had a longer body and shorter legs than the rest of the breed ; the joints also were peculiarly formed, and the fore-legs crooked. The con- formation of this animal rendering it unable to leap over fences, it was thought desirable to endeavour to propagate its peculiarities ; and accordingly when it was fit for procreation, several ewes were impregnated by it. Out of the lambs first produced, only two presented the same peculiarities ; more were obtained hi subsequent years ; and when they became capable of breeding with each other, the new race was completely established j its distinc- tive characters being uniformly presented when both parents possessed them, but tending to disappear when the sheep of the " ancon" or " otter" breed (as it is called) were allowed to breed with those of the ordinary type.* This fact, as we shall hereafter see, has an important bearing on the question of the spontaneous origination of permanent varieties, in the human or any other species that is disposed to undergo occasional modifications ; which modifications, under ordinary circum- stances, disappear as often as they recur. Thus it is not uncommon to meet with fami- lies distinguished by the possession of some peculiarity of feature, or by some well marked departure from the ordinary conformation, such as the possession of six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. If such were to intermarry exclusively with one another, there can be no reasonable doubt that the children would invariably exhibit the same peculiarity ; and that the six-fingered race, which now tends, whenever it is originated, to merge in the prevailing five-fingered type, would then become permanent. When it is considered that the influence of a scanty population, in the early ages of the world, by isolating different families from each other, and causing inter-marriages amongst even very near relatives, would have been precisely the same with that which is now exercised by the breeders of animals, we see one reason why the varieties which then arose should have had a much greater tendency to per- petuation, than those which now occasionally present themselves. In regard to the horse, it will be sufficient to observe that no zoologist has ever ex- * See Col. Hutchinson's Memoir in the Philo- sophical Transactions for 1813.