1504 VOICE. minal cavity, divided into two cells by a scaly partition of a triangular form, covered by two cartilaginous plates, acting as shutters or opercula. When viewed from the abdominal surface, each cell presents exteriorly a white folded membrane with radiated reflections, which he terms the mirror. On opening from the upper surface the part of the abdomen corresponding to the cavity, we perceive on each side a plaited membrane, dry and sono- rous, which is moved by a powerful muscle, composed of straight parallel fibres springing from the scaly partition ; this membrane is the tymbal. In order to bring into play an instru- ment so complicated, Reaumur states that the insect alternately contracts and relaxes the muscle attached to the tymbal, and by this means produces the sound. He believes that " this sound is augmented in the drum, and that this portion of the vocal organ has no other use than to give it brilliancy." He also imagines " that the trochanter of the haunch performs the office of a curb, and prevents the operculum from being too much elevated during the song. Some doubts have arisen with regard to this simple explanation of the song of the Cicada?, and entomologists have concluded that the air performs an important part in the formation of the voice, and that it is due, at least in a great measure, to a rapid current issuing from the stigmata of the meta- thorax, which resounds within the organs above described." The humming, or buzzing of Insects.— It has been supposed by some entomologists that the hum of insects is produced by the os- cillations of their wings during flight, and this supposition is strengthened by the fact that the tones are altered during the suspension of the insects in the air, and that the sound becomes more acute when the tips of the wings are removed. This hypothesis will not, how- ever, bear the test of rigid investigation. It was observed by John Hunter, " that in- sects emitted sounds after their wings were cut off.* De Geerf, finding that after he had cut off the wings, winglets, and poisers, the buzzing continued, placed the insect under a microscope, and observing that the stumps of the wings were in rapid motion, he pulled them off" by the roots, on which the buzzing ceased •, and hence he inferred that the sound was produced b\ the vibrations of the wings. But it is not surprising that insects, after such mutilation cease to emit any sound. Bur- meister j is of opinion that the sounds of some Diptera, such as Tabanns bovinus, are produced by a stream of air rapidly transmitted through the thoracic air-holes during flight. He has described and figured the mechanism of the thorax and the air-holes of the Eristalis tenax, which is as follows:—The aperture of the hinder air-hole is provided with a sphincter muscle, perpendicular to the inner surface of which are sixteen or eighteen horny lamella?, of the same breadth as the muscle, and connected in * Phil. Trans. 1792. t Vol. ii. p. 13. % Art xvi. p 377. Taylor's Scientific Memoirs. the middle by another longitudinal horny band. The sphincter muscle is lined with a membrane clothed with feathery hairs, which cover the air-hole like a sieve, and exclude foreign bodies. He leaves it to naturalists to decide whether or not this mechanism contributes to the form- ation of the sound ; adding that either way it is of little consequence, as many insects have no such lamellae. He observes that when the insect sits or crawls it breathes through the air-holes of the abdomen,but during flight through those of the thorax. He considers the hum of insects to be in reality a whistle. The pitch of this hum is hitherto unexplained, although it is quite certain that it does not depend upon the number of the vibrations of the wings, for in a favourable light the motion of the wings of many insects, whose hum is of a high pitch, can be clearly detected; but, if that pitch were owing to the vibrations of the wings, their number would necessarily be so great as to render the motion imperceptible.* The author has recently examined, with Professor Queekett, the spiracles of other insects, such as the blue-bottle fly, and the humble bee, and has discovered in them a beautifully organised valvular opening, capable of producing the sounds which these insects emit during flight, f In fig. 922. is shown one of the large thoracic spiracles of a blow fly (Musca vumitoria); it consists of two valves, one much larger than the other, each Fig. 922. Timracic spiracle of the blow-fly, Musca vomitoria. being provided with numerous branching horny filaments or hairs which serve as a support to the thin membrane forming the valve ; a somewhat similar form of spiracle occurs in the humble bee, (fig. 923). The valves are nearly of equal size, and the branching hairs are much stronger and more numerous than those in the blow fly. * Those who wish to pursue the subject further may consult the second note to p. 425. art. Motion., f The pitch of the blue-bottle fly ranges, in different species, from 288 to 341 vibrations in a second.