URINE. 1287 4 n 4 To this table Dr. Prout appends the fol- lowing valuable remarks in his work " On Stomach and Urinary Diseases " : — " In this table the urinary calculi contained in the museums of Bartholomew's and Guy's Hospitals in London, and of the provincial hospitals of Norwich, Manchester, and Bris- tol, are contrasted with the calculi existing in Swabia in Germany, and in Copenhagen in Denmark. The data here collected are too limited to throw much light on the relative prevalence of calculous affections in different parts of England, much less in England as compared with the different countries of Eu- rope ; yet in other points of view, and par- ticularly in demonstrating the relative pre- valence of the different species of calculi, and the order of the succession of the different layers of which calculi are composed, &c., they are highly interesting and important. " In this table, the whole of the data com- prising the analysis of 1520 calculi, are col- lected into one point of view, under the general heads of 1. Lithic acid, 2. Mulberry, 2. Cystic oxide, 4. Phospkatic, 5. Alternating, and 6. Compound Calculi. " On each of these heads we shall make a few remarks. "1. Of lithic acid calculi.—The proportions of pure lithic acid calculi to the whole num- bers contained in the different museums, are as follow : — In Bartholomew's Hospital, as 1 : ; in Guy's Hospital, as 1 : 5+ ; in the Norwich Hospital, as 1 : 4+ ; in Swabia, as 1 : Jl-i ; in Copenhagen, as 1 : 5—. The relative proportions of pure lithic acid calculi in the Manchester and Bristol Museums are not mentioned ; hence, abstracting the Man- chester and Bristol, the general proportion of pure lithic acid calculi is as 1 ! C^, nearly. " The relative proportions of calculi in the different museums, composed essentially of lithic acid, (i. e. consisting of pure lithic acid, lithate of ammonia, and the latter ingredient mixed with minute quantities of the lithate and oxalate of lime, and the phosphates,) are, in Bartholomew's Hospital, as 1 : 7— ; in Guy's Hospital, as I : 4— ; in the Norwich Hospital, as 1 : 3+ ; in the Manchester Hospital, as I '. ; in the Bristol Hos- pital, as 1 : 3— ; in Swabia, as 1 : 10+ ; and in Copenhagen, as 1 : 4^—. The general proportion in all the collections is as 1 : 3^—. "If we take into account all the calculi of which the lithic acid or its compounds form the nucleus, the proportions of calculi originat- ing with this principle (and which probably would otherwise have not been formed) is very much greater. Thus in Bartholomew's Hospital the proportion of calculi containing the lithic acid or some of its compounds as a nucleus, is to the whole number of calculi as 1 : If— ; in Guy's Hospital, as 1 : 4—, (not fairly comparable, as the calculi do not appear to be divided ;) in the Norwich Hospital, as 1 : \\-\- ; in the Manchester Hospital, as 1 : If — ; in the Bristol, as 1 : 2\+ ; in Swabia, 1 : 1^ + ; and in Copenhagen, as 1 : The relative proportions of all the calculi originating in some form or combina- tion of lithic acid, in all the different collec- tions, is nearly as 1 : !•§•, which is equal to saying, that if a lithic acid nucleus had not been formed and detained in the bladder, two persons at least out of three who suffer from calculus would have never been troubled with that affection. "Of mulberry or oxalate of lime calculi.— The proportions of mulberry calculi in the different hospitals are nearly as follow : in Bartholomew's Hospital, as 1 : 10+; in Guy's Hospital, as 1 : 4— ; in the Norwich Hospital, as 1 : 31 a— ; in the Manchester Hospital, as 1 : 17; in the Bristol Hospital, as 1 : 6£—; in Swabia, as 1 : 27 ; in Copen- hagen there does not appear to be any cal- culus composed throughout of oxalate of lime ; but if we take the nearest approach to such composition, in which calculi are com- posed principally of this salt with a mixed nucleus, likewise containing oxalate of lime, the proportions will be as 1 : 19^— ; the general proportions in all the museums are as 1 : 14+ " If we take into account all the calculi of which the oxalate of lime constitutes more or less of the nucleus, the proportions in the different museums will be, — in Bartholo- mew's, 1 : 4f + ; in Guy's, 1 : 4— ; in Nor- wich, 1 : 7£+ ; in Manchester, 1 : 4-J + ; in Bristol, 1 : 3^— ; in Swabia, 1 : 27 ; and in Copenhagen, 1 : 2^+. The general pro- portion of calculi, into the nucleus of which oxalate of lime largely enters, in all the museums, is as 1 : 4^-+ ; which is equivalent to saying, that if a mulberry stone had not been formed and detained in the bladder, two persons out of about nine who suffer from calculus would not have been troubled with that affection. "3. Of cystic oxide calculi.— Of this rare form of urinary calculus, four out of the seven museums contain no specimen. Calculi of this substance exist in the museums of Bar- tholomew's, Guy's, and the Manchester Hos- pitals, amounting altogether to five only. Hence the general proportion to the whole number of cystic oxide calculi examined, is only as 1 : 304. " 4. Of phosphatic calculi. — Calculi com- posed throughout of the phosphates are com- paratively of uncommon occurrence; while calculi consisting externally of the phosphates, as will be presently shown, are the most fre- quent of all others. At present we have to do with calculi composed essentially of the phosphates. " The proportion of calculi composed of the phosphate of lime, in Bartholomew's Hospital, is as 1 : 32\; in Guy's Hospital, as 1 : 29 ; in the Norwich Hospital, as 1 : 132f ; in the Bristol, as 1 : 155. The other museums contain no specimen. The general proportion of phosphate of lime calculi, to the whole number, is as 1 : 117 —. " The proportion of calculi composed of the