1300 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. applied this method of measurement, the facial angle of the average of European skulls is 80°, whilst in the ideal heads of the Grecian gods it is increased to 90° ; on the other hand, in the skull of a Kalmuck he found it to be 75°, and in that of a Negro only 70° ; and applying the same system of measure- ment to the skulls of Apes, he found them to range from 64° to 60°. But these last mea- surements were all taken from young skulls, in which the forward extension of the jaws, which takes place on the second dentition, had not yet occurred. In the adult Chim- panzee, as we learn from the measurements of Prof. Owen, the facial angle is no more than 35°, and in the adult Orang only 30°; so that instead of the Negro being nearer to the Ape than to the European, as Camper's estimate would make him, the interval be- tween the most degraded human races and the most elevated Quadrumana is vastly greater than between the highest and lowest forms of humanity. It must be borne in mind that the facial angle is so much affected by the degree of prominence of the jaws, that it can never afford any certain information con- cerning the elevation of the forehead and the capacity of the cranium ; all that it can in any degree serve to indicate, is the relative proportion between the facial and cranial parts of the skull. The small size of the face of Man, compared with that of the cranium, is an indication that in him the senses are sub- ordinated to the intelligence. Accordingly we find that he is surpassed by many of the lower animals in acuteness of sensibility to light, sound, &c. ; but he stands preeminent in the power of comparing and judging of his sensations, and of drawing conclusions from them as to their objective sources. Moreover, although none of his senses are very acute in his natural state, they are all moderately so ; and they are capable of being wonderfully improved by practice, when cir- cumstances strongly call for their exercise. This seems especially the case with the tactile sense (see article Touch, p. 1177), of which man can make greater use than any other animal, in consequence of the entire freedom of his anterior extremities, although there are many which surpass him in their power of appreciating certain classes of tactile impres- sions. So, again, Man's nervo-inuscular power is inferior to that of most other animals of his size; the full grown Orang, for example, surpasses him both in strength and agility ; and the larger Chimpanzee, according to the statements of the negroes who have en- countered it, is far more than a match for any single man, and is almost certain to destroy any human opponent when once within his grasp. The absence of any natural weapons of offence, and of direct means of defence, are remarkable characteristics of Man, and dis- tinguish him not only from the lower Mam- malia, but also from the most anthropoid Apes ; in which it is obvious (both from their habits and general organisation) that the enormous canines have no relation to a car- nivorous regimen, but are instruments of war- fare. On those animals to which nature has denied weapons of attack, she has bestowed the means either of passive defence, of con- cealment, or of flight; in each of which Man is deficient. Yet, by his superior reason, he has not only been enabled to resist the at- tacks of other animals, but even to bring them into subjection to himself. His intellect can scarcely suggest the mechanism which his hands cannot frame ; and he has devised and constructed arms more powerful than those which any other creature wields, and defences so secure as to defy the assaults of all but his fellow men. The power of adaptation to varieties in external condition, which renders Man to a great extent independent of them, is one of the most remarkable peculiarities of his economy. He is capable of sustaining the lowest as well as the highest extremes of temperature and of atmospheric pressure. In the former of these particulars he is strikingly contrasted with the anthropoid apes; the Chimpanzee being restricted to the hottest parts of Africa, and the Orang outan to the tropical portions of the Indian Archipelago*; and neither of these animals being capable of living in temperate climates without the assistance of artificial heat, even with the aid of which they have not hitherto survived their second dentition. So, again, although Man's diet seems naturally of a mixed character, he can support himself in health and strength either on an exclusively vegetable diet, or, under particular circumstances, on an almost exclusively animal diet. It is in thus adapt- ing himself to the conditions of his existence, in providing himself with food, shelter, wea- pons of attack and defence, &c, that man's intellectual powers are first called into active operation; and when thus aroused, their development has no assignable limit. The will, guided by the intelligence, and acted on by the desires and emotions, takes the place in man of the instinctive propensities which are the usual springs of action in the lower animals ; and although, among the most ele- vated of these, the intelligent will is called into exercise to a certain extent, yet it never acquires among them, the dominance which it possesses in man. The capacity for intel- lectual progress is a remarkable peculiarity of man's psychical nature. The instinctive habits of the lower animals are limited, and peculiar to each species, and have immediate reference to their bodily wants. Where a particular adaptation of means to ends, of actions to circumstances, is made by an indi- vidual (as is frequently the case, when some amount of intelligence or rationality exists), the rest do not seem to profit by it ; so that, although (as will be shown hereafter) the in- stincts of particular animals may be modified by the training of man, or by the education of circumstances, so as to show themselves after a few generations under new forms, no elevation in intelligence appears ever to take place spontaneously, no psychical im-