VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1363 4 s 2 the interior of many of the larger islands of the Indian Archipelago ; it is not always cer- tain, however, whether the people whose pre- sence there is reported, are Negritoes or dark Fig. 852. Portrait of Ourou-Mare, an Australian Chief. (From the " Atlas da Voyage au Terres Australes."") Malays. There are many indications, indeed that the Malayo-Polynesian and Negrito races are not really so distinct, as the marked dis- similarity of their respective physical types, and the complete want of conformity between their languages, would make it appear. For as, on the one hand, some of the subdivisions of the former present a decided tendency to- wards the prognathous character, and the depth of complexion, which are typical of the latter, so among the latter we do find a lighter shade of skin, a greater symmetry of skull, and a considerable improvement in form and fea- ture, not unfrequently displaying themselves ; as is the case, for example, with some of the Papuans, or inhabitants of New Guinea, and even occasionally with the Australian abori- gines, notwithstanding that the physiognomy of the latter generally exhibits a very manifest degradation (Jig. 852.) The relations of the language of the different branches of this race to each other, and to other languages, have not yet been clearly developed. They appear, however, to possess a general community of structure, with differences in the vocabulary; and such differences present themselves very prominently among some of the languages of Australian tribes, whose common origin can- not be questioned. According to Dr. Latham, they contain a considerable infusion of Malay words ; but this is scarcely enough to establish their community of origin with the languages of the Malayo-Polynesian stock. Some other affinities have been pointed out by Dr. Prich- ard ; but these, it is remarkable, are not so intimate as those which subsist between the Australian and the Tamulian of Southern India. Remote as the connection seems, this circumstance adds weight to the idea, that the native Australians are an offset from that southern branch of the great nomadic stock of Central Asia, which seems early to have spread itself through the Indian and Indo- Chinese peninsula. It is commonly believed that there is no people, excepting the most degraded of the Negroes and the Bushmen of the Cape, whose physical condition is so miserable, or whose mental development is so low, as that of the Australian aborigines ; but the testimony of those who have visited them in their native haunts, where as yet they have been uncontaminated by contact with Europeans, and have not suffered from the deprivation of the land which affords them the means of subsistence, is very decided i i regard to the exaggeration which has prevailed on this point. In particular it may be re- marked, that, although they have less suscepti- bility than exists among many other rude nations to religious impressions, yet it is cer- tain that they are not destitute (as some have represented them to be) of all idea of a God ; they even seem to have a notion of a future state, and a belief in good and evil angels. They have likewise a superstitious belief in magicians or sorcerers ; a belief which seems to attain its highest point among the nations of High Asia. Many complex and singular institutions, especially relating to the tenure of property, exist among them ; to which the nearest approach elsewhere is presented by the North American Indians. Looking, then, to the great diversity which exists among the subordinate groups of which both these divisions consist, and their ten- dency to mutual approximation, it cannot be shown that any sufficient reason exists for isolating them from each other ; and, as already remarked, there seems no medium between the supposition that each island had its aboriginal py.ir or pairs, and the doctrine that the whole of Oceania has been peopled from a common stock. Looking, again, to the very marked approximation which is presented by certain Oceanic tribes to the Mongolian type, and this in a locality which, on other grounds, might be regarded as having received the first stream of migration, the possibility, to say the least, can scarcely be denied, that the main-land furnished the original stock, which has under- gone various transformations subsequently to its first dispersion ; these having been the re- sult of climatic influence and mode of life, and having been chiefly influenced as to degree, by the length of time during which the transform- ing causes have been in operation. At any rate it may be safely affirmed, that there is no physical peculiarity which entitles the Oceanic races to rank as a group, which must have ne- cessarily had an original stock distinct from that of the continental nations. General Recapitulation. On the whole then, the result of the ex- tensive range of inquiries, of w hich an out-