TONGUE, 1148 mouth, it is seen to be a whitish, fleshy, ru- ratus and muscles, and from the description of the two deduce the most probable explanation of the movements. When a portion of the integument and lower jaw on one side is removed, so as to expose the tongue when retracted within the gous mass, about an inch and a half long, fill- ing the buccal cavity, so as to depress the floor of the mouth and throat, in shape some- thing of a cone with the base in front: the posterior half, or smaller part, is seen to be thrown into deep and numerous transverse rugae (Jig. 761. A, b, and C.) which extend Tongue of the Chameleon. A, retracted. B, elongated. C, seen from beneath, hi situ, by incision and separation of the integument. quite up to the hyoid bone, and give to this part the appearance of an earth-worm, a simile suggested by Belon. When the tongue is drawn out it is seen to be capable of great extension (B), the extension taking place in the posterior or rugose portion, and being effected by the obliteration of the transverse ruga?, which one by one are smoothed or flattened out as the extension is continued, so that when it is stretched as far as it will go by moderate traction, the tongue, instead of being an inch and a half long, of which only half is occupied by the extensible portion, is five inches long, the extensible part occupying about six-sevenths of the entire extent, and being much attenuated (B, b), while the an- terior portion retains its original size and shape (a). The tongue is thus seen to be composed of two parts, a club-shaped ex- tremity and a highly extensible medium of connection between this extremity and the hyoid bone : these two parts I shall now describe. The anterior club-shaped extremity is about three quarters of an inch long, and three lines in diameter, and in shape reminds one of the corolla of a labiate flower ; in fact it is bilabi- ate: it has a sort of dome above (a), termi- nated in front by an upper lip (c), which is opposed by a more projecting lower lip (d), and between them is situated a funnel-shaped mouth, which, when closed, as in A, forms a horizontal cleft, but is capable of being opened as shown in B, (and to an extent greater than that represented in the figure,) and closed on any object at the will of the animal, so as to assist in the prehension of food. These lips are furnished with a sort of orbicularis, and, no doubt, too, with muscles that shall raise the upper and depress the lower ; but I have been unable to detect any fibres going in such a direction as to produce these movements. This part, as well as the whole of the tongue, is invested with the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the upper surface of the dome and lower lip, are covered with minute papilla?, invested with a fine epithelium, and disposed, in the former situation, in rows, indicated by the lines (A, a). The part which covers in the infundibular cavity, and which, after the analogous part in a labiate flower, I have called the dome, Bibron has not ill compared to a tongue reversed. The second portion consists essentially of a membranous tube, threaded, as it were, by the long cartilaginous stilet, or tongue bone, of the hyoid apparatus (the glosso-lu/al). This cartilaginous stilet, which has been errone- ously described as bony, is about an inch and a half long, and consequently passes through the entire length of the tongue when re- tracted, its anterior extremity being received into the lower lip of the club-shaped portion : it threads the tongue much in the same way as a bodkin threads a bag when furnishing it with a running string, and it is by the pucker- ing of the membranous portion upon this basis that the transverse ruga; are formed. The membranous tube itself (which has been compared to a pipe, a piece of intestine, a