874- TEETH. || Odontography, pi. 45, fig. 1. * x«i'nj, bristle; c'S«i>?, tooth. when the teeth are equally fine and numerous, but longer, they are called " ciliiform " {denies Fig. 561. Palatine bone and teeth (Silurus). ciliiformes): when the teeth are similar to, but rather stronger than these, they are called Fig: 562. Jaws and teeth (Myliobates). " setiform" (denies setiformcs, dentes en brossc) : conical teeth, as close set and sharp pointed as the villiform teeth, but of larger size, are called " rasp-teeth " (dentes radu/iformcs, dents en rape or en cardes,fig. 561.) ; the Pike pre- sents such teeth on the back part of the vomer : the teeth of the Sheat-fish (Si/urus glanis) present all the gradations between the villi- form and raduliform types. Setiform teeth are common in the fishes thence called Chae- todonts* ; in the genus Citharina they bifur- cate at their free extremities ; in the genus Platax they end there in three diverging points (fig. 563.), and the cone here merges into the long and slender cylinder. Some- times the cone is compressed into a slender trenchant blade : and this may be pointed and recurved, as in the Mureena; or barbed, as in Trichiurus, and some other Scomberoids ; or it may be bent upon itself, like a tenterhook, as in the fishes thence called Goniodonts.* In the Bonito may be perceived a progressive thickening of the base of the conical teeth : and this being combined in other predatory Fis. 563. USB 3fa?idibu!ar teeth, magnified (Platax). fishes with increased size and recurved direc- tion, they then resemble the laniary or canine teeth of carnivorous quadrupeds, as we see in the large teeth of the Pike, in the Lophius-)-, and in certain sharks."): The anterior diverging grappling teeth of the wolf-fish form stronger cones ; and by progressive blunting, flattening, and expansion of the apex, observable in different fishes, the cone gradually changes to the thick and short cylinder, such as is seen in the back Fig. 564. Inferior pharyngeal bone and teeth (Labrus). teeth of the wolf-fish, and in similar grinding and crushing teeth in other genera, whether feeders on sea-weeds, or crustaceous and testa- ceous animals. The grinding surface of these short cylindrical teeth may be convex, as in the Sheep's-head fish (Sargus) ; or flattened, as in the pharyngeal teeth of the Wrasse (La- brus~).§ Sometimes the hemispheric teeth are so numerous, and spread over so broad a sur- face, as to resemble a pavement, as in the pharyngeal bones of the Wrasse or Rock-fish (Labrus, jig. 564.) ; or they may be so small, as well as numerous (dentes graniformes), as to give a granulated surface to the part of the mouth to which they are attached (premax- illaries of Cossi/phus).\\ A progressive increase * Tm'ix, an angle; iSaW, a tooth. f Vol. 111., Jig. 512, p. 978. art. Pisces. t lb. Jig. 510, p. 976. § lb. fig. 513, p. 978.