TUNICATA. 1197 of the Salpa maxima, the fundamental mass of the gelatinous envelope being composed of the homogeneous substance. It differs, however, in the elements contained in this tissue, and by the presence of a simple layer of epithelial cells, covering it on the interior surface of the test. In the interior layer of the homoge- neous substance there are granulated vesi- cles, having a diameter of O003'" to 0-004/", sometimes having the appearance of nuclei, and sometimes that of cells. In the middle part, here and there, are scattered round or fusiform nuclei; and in the exterior layer are little crystals, round nuclei, and peculiar concretions, similar to those of Salpa maxima. Some of these concretions are small, elegantly ramified, and disposed horizontally ; others are larger, ramified in a brush-like form, and appearing to the naked eye as white tufts. These latter commence at the surface, descend vertically towards the interior, and ultimately form a tuft of fine ramified rays {fig. 775. d). Transverse section of the test, of Salpa bicaudata, magnified 30 times. {After Lowig and Kolliker.') 1, epithelial layer; 2, homogeneous mass, with nucleoli; b, fusiform and ramified concretions; c, nuclei; d, brush-like concretions. Magnified 350 times, these two sorts of con- cretions are seen to be composed of opaque granules of different sizes. The chemical composition of the test of this Salpa is iden- tical with that of the preceding species. In the Pyrosoma giganteum, the common en- velope of the individuals is also formed of a homogeneous and structureless substance. In its interior are scattered here and there round nuclei, and some ramified cells, similar to those of the loose cellular tissue of the em- bryos of Mammifers, for example, to that of the gelatine of Wharton. Both of these latter elements disappear when treated with soda; but the homogeneous substance al- together resists the action of the soda, and remains intact. The Diazona violacea (Fam. Botryllidcc') possesses, in the gelatinous mass of the com- mon test, a diaphanous, structureless sub- stance, quite destitute of cells. In the ex- terior layers are crystals and concretions of carbonate of lime, vesicles with violet-coloured granules, fat granules, and, particularly to- wards the interior, a great quantity of minute round vesicles (nuclei). Treated with hy- drochloric acid and with soda, the crystals, nuclei, and pigment-cells are dissolved, but the homogeneous substance remains un- changed. Moreover, after having been a long time exposed to the influence of the alkali, and although the pigment-cells have disap- peared, some portions of the exterior parts retain a pale violet tint, giving evidence of the presence of undissolved colouring particles, and of an amorphous colouring matter per- vading the mass. The structure of the test of Didemnum can- didum (Fam. Botryttidce) is quite different from that met with in any of the Tunicates before mentioned. The white substance in which the individual animals are lodged, which has been figured also by Savigny, apparently pre- sents only some white star-shaped bodies {fig. 774. a), measuring 0-006'" to 0-015'", similar to those found by M. Milne-Edwards, in Leptoclinum stellatum and L. maculosuni {fig. 774. d), except only that the former are of a more rounded form, and are provided with shorter and more numerous points.* But, on being treated with hydrochloric acid, this substance has quite another appearance. The white colour quickly disappears, bubbles of gas being freely given oft"; and, on ex- amination with the microscope, there is seen in the yellowish, transparent membrane that remains, a fundamental homogeneous sub- stance, in which are scattered round and elongated cells, of 0-005"'— 0-013"' in di- ameter, and some minute granular masses. At first sight these cells appear to be analo- gous to the large cells found in the tests of Ascidia and Clavellina, being, like those of the latter, non-nucleated, indistinctly marked by a pale, delicate contour, and having perfectly liquid contents. But by boiling with soda they are quite dissolved, whereas the homo- geneous substance remains unchanged. MM. Lowig and Kolliker found also, that under the influence of hydrochloric acid each of the star- like corpuscles showed itself not to be a simple concretion, but, losing its rays little by little, became a cell filled with lime, and ultimately appeared as a colourless, empty cell, quite similar to those above described. They add that they could not discover how these curious cells, filled with lime, and fur- nished with calcareous rays externally, were formed ; but they thought it probable that they were originally large cells, full of liquid, which became gradually occupied with lime, until ultimately the membrane of the cell became incrusted, and the lime deposited on its external surface. * We have been favoured by Mr. Bowerbank with an opportunity of examining his valuable series of microscopical preparations of ascidian tis- sues, including several kinds of the spicule entering into the composition of the tests. The spicula? of Didemman are spherical bodies, closely invested with short, thick, blunt spines, and nearly resemble the globular spicute of Tethea, except that the invest- ing spines of the latter are more numerous and much liner. The tissue occupied by these closely set spicula? in the Didemnum is seen in the trans- parent portions of Mr. Bowerbank's beautifully mounted specimens to be composed of diaphanous, contiguous, irregularly hexagonal cells, the measure- ments of which we have not had time to effect. Xumerous nucleoli are disseminated throughout the tissue.