TEETH. 884 imbedded in a shallow socket, and is confluent therewith. In the Scincoidians, the Safeguards {Tejus), in most Iguanians, in the Chameleons and most other Lacertian reptiles, the tooth is anchylosed by an oblique surface extending from the base more or less upon the outer side of the crown to an external alveolar plate of bone*, the inner alveolar plate not being developed. In the frogs the teeth are simi- larly but less firmly attached to an external parapet of bone. The lizards which have their teeth thus attached to the side of the jaw are termed Pleurodonts. In a few Igua- nians, as the Istiures, the teeth appear to be soldered to the margins of the jaws, these have been termed " Acrodonts." In some large extinct Lacertians, e. g. the Mosasaur and Leiodon, the tooth is fixed upon a raised conical process of bone, as shown in my " Odontography," Plate 68. fig. 1., and Plate 72. fig. 2. These modifications of the attachment of the teeth of reptiles are closely adapted to the destined application of those instruments, and relate to the habits and food of the species ; we may likewise perceive that they offer a close analogy to some of the transitory' con- ditions of the human teeth. There is a period, for example-f-, when the primitive dental papilla; are not defended by either an outer or an inner alveolar process, any more than their calcified homologues which are confluent with the margin of the jaw in the Rhynchocephalus.'\. There is another stage§, in which the groove containing the den- tal germs is defended by a single external cartilaginous alveolar ridge ; this condition is permanently typified in the Cyclodus (fig. 570.) and most existing lizards. Next there is developed in the human embryo an internal alveolar plate, and the sacs and pulps of the teeth sink into a deep but continuous groove, in which traces of transverse partitions soon make their appearance ; in the ancient Ichthy- osaur the relation of the jaws to the teeth never advanced bejond this stage. Finally, the dental groove is divided by complete partitions ||, and a separate socket is formed for each tooth ; and this stage of developement is attained in the highest or- ganised reptiles, e.g. the crocodiles (fig. 573.). Substance. — This may be four-fold, and a single tooth may be composed of dentine, cement, enamel, and bone; but the dentine and cement are present in the teeth of all reptiles. In the Batrachians and Ophidians a thin layer of cement invests the central body of dentine, and, as usual, follows any in- flections or sinuosities that may characterise * Odontography, pi. G7. f At the sixth week of gestation : see Prof. Good- sir, " On the Development of the Human Teeth," Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 138. % See Geological Transactions, 2d series, vol. vii. pt. 2, pi. G,fgs. 5 & G, p. 83. § At the seventh or eighth -week: Ibid. || At the sixth month: Ibid. the dentine. Besides the outer coat of cement, which is thickest at the base of the teeth, a generally thin coat of enamel defends the crown of the tooth in most Saurians, and the last remains of the pulp are not unfrequently converted into a coarse bone, both in the teeth which are anchylosed to the jaw, and in some teeth, as those of the Ichthyosaur, which remain free. The only modification of the dentine, which could at all entitle it to be regarded in the light of a new or distinct substance, is that which is peculiar in the present class to the teeth of the Iguanodon, and which will be described in the following section. Structure. — The varieties of dental structure are few in the reptiles as compared with either fishes or mammals, and its most com- plicated condition arises from interblending of the dentinal and other substances rather than from modifications of the tissues themselves. In the teeth of most reptiles the intimate structure of the dentine corresponds with that which has been described as the type of the tissue, e.g. the hard or unvascular dentine, and which is the prevailing modification in Mammalia, viz., the radiation of a system of minute plasmatic tubes from a single pulp- cavity, at right angles to the external surface of the tooth. The most essential modification of this structure is the intermingling of cylin- drical processes of the pulp-cavity in the form of medullary canals, with the finer tubular structure.* Another modification is that in which the dentine maintains its normal struc- ture, but is folded inwardly upon itself, so as to produce a deep longitudinal indentation on one side of the tooth ; it is the expansion of the bottom of such a longitudinal deep fold that forms the central canal of the venom- fang of the serpent; but a glance at 7%. 568. will show that, notwithstanding the singularly modified disposition of the dentine (b), its structure remains unaltered ; and although the pulp-cavity (p) is reduced to the form of a crescentic fissure, the dentinal tubes continue to radiate from it according to the usual law. By a similar inflection of many vertical longi- tudinal folds of the external cement and ex- ternal surface of the tooth at regular intervals around the entire circumference of the tooth, and by a corresponding extension of radiated processes of the pulp-cavity and dentine into the interspaces of such inflected and con- verging folds, a modification of dental struc- ture is established in certain extinct reptiles, which, by the various sinuosities of the inter- blended folds of cement and processes of dentine, with the partial dilatations of the radiated pulp-cavity, produces the compli- cated structure which is described at p. 868. and figured in cut 552. But this compli- cation is nevertheless referable to a modi- fication of form or arrangement of the dental tissues, rather than of the structure of the tissues themselves: the calcigerous tubes in each sinuous lobe of dentine, in the most * Odontography, pi. 71, Iguanodon.