1233 TUNICATA. rapid, and the movements of the blood-discs can be more easily followed. "As these blood- globules are of a certain consistence, a resist- ance," says Van Hasselt, " is necessarily cre- ated in the whole mass of the blood, which ultimately overcomes the projectile power of the heart. After a short interval, during which the opposite forces are balanced, the heart assumes a spiral movement, contrary to the preceding. Hence it follows," he ob- serves, " that, since the blood is driven as much backward as forward in the vessels of the body, and since it is only by their anas- tomoses that the circulation can be said to be carried on, all the system of the pulmonary vessels can consist only in accessory ramifica- tions, which have no direct influence on the principal circulation ; and that two separate systems, arterial and venous, do not exist, the two being united, or rather never having been separate."* The nerve-ganglion is more or less de- veloped in all the Salpians. It is situated on the superior surface of the thoracic chamber, near the posterior extremity, and just above the insertion of the branchia. In its neigh- bourhood is often observed a pigmentary spot, or rudimentary organ of vision. In S. cordiformis the ganglion appears as a compound body, formed of two central glo- bular portions and four irregular lateral ap- pendages, two on a side. Numerous filaments radiate off in every direction. Four of these filaments are sent towards the posterior ori- fice, two of them passing on either side of the space described by Prof. Eschricht as the " oval organ." This latter is a long slit with ' an inner smooth rim, and an outer oval, trans- versely striated border. In S. zonaria the gan- glion is a somewhat triangular, globose body, with a single appendix on each side, sending off four anterior filaments, two lateral pairs and a posterior pair. The " oval organ," situ- ated between the last pair, is close up to the ganglion, and less distinct than in S. cordiformis. Many of the Salpce are highly phosphores- cent f ; but sometimes this condition is due to the presence of phosphorescent Crusta- ceans inhabiting their internal cavity. The long chains of phosphorescent Salpa: swim- ming near the surface, have been described as occasionally producing the effect of long ribands of fire drawn along by the currents. Generation of Sulpce. — " One of the most important discoveries," says M. KrohnJ,"with which physiology has been enriched in our da3s, is without contradiction that of the * Extrait d'un Lettre de Van Hasselt, sur les Biphores, le 12 Aout, 1821 (Algem. Konst-en Let- terbode, 1822). Annales des Sciences Naturelles, tom.iii. 1824, p. 78. Bull, des Sciences, torn. ii. p. 212. f See Mr. G. Bennett's Observations on the Phosphorescence of the Ocean, "Proceedings of the Zoological Society, 1837;" and his "Wanderings in New South Wales." See also the Article, Lumi- nousness, Animal. % Observations sur le Generation et la De'veloppe- ment des Biphores. Annales des Sciences Xatu- relles, 31' se'ries, torn. vi. 1846. VOL. IV. remarkable phenomena observed in many inferior animals, and termed, ' propagation by alternate generations.'" To M. Steenstrup* the merit is incontestably due, of having been the first to bring together, in an ingenious man- ner, all the facts belonging to the subject. In treating of the phenomena observed by Cha- misso in one species of Salpa, and analogous phenomena studied in other groups of animals, and in his generalisations of the facts, M. Steen- strup has placed them in a strong light, and given them their full value. M. Steenstrup's observations have also tended to strengthen the views of Chamisso-|- so often contested ; and the researches of M. Kiohn, on the natural history and zootomy of eight species of Salpa-, fully confirm them. J Every Salpian is viviparous; and each species, as shown by Chamisso, is propagated by an alternate suc- cession of dissimilar generations. One of these generations is represented by solitary or isolated individuals ; the other by aggregated or associated individuals, united into groups known as " chains." Each isolated individual engenders a group of aggregated individuals, and each of these produces in its turn a solitary individual. The isolated individuals are therefore muciparous, and the associated individuals uniparous. This is not the only difference existing between the two alternating generations ; for, if we compare the associated individuals representing the aggregate gener- ation, with the solitary individual forming the isolated generation, we shall find that they differ amongst themselves not only with respect to external conformation, but also in many particulars of organisation. The definition, then, of species should in this ease include the characteristics of the two dissimilar generations, isolated and aggregate, which alternately succeed each other. It is desirable therefore, for the determination of each species, to preserve but one name. This * Ueber den Generationswechsels in den Xiedern Thierklassen, 1842. f De Animalibus quibusdam a Classe Vermium Linneana. Fasc. 1. "De Salpa." Berolini, 1849, 4to. % M. Steenstrup, in his memoir on the Alternation of Generation (edit. Roy. Soc. pp. 39 and following), gives a full account of the different views of Chamisso, Meyer, and Eschricht, with regard to the develop- ment of the Salpa. He allots considerable space to the consideration of the arguments of the learned Danish professor, with whose opinions, however, he does not coincide, acknowledging that all his own re- searches tend to support the observations of Chamisso. M. Steenstrup notices that the alternate genera- tions of Salpa are precisely analogous to the phe- nomena observed in the propagation of Medusa aurita. This free-swimming Medusa always pro- duces a progeny which is poh'piform and destitute of the power of locomotion, but which ultimately brings forth, by tissiparous generation, a progeny consisting of free-swimming Medusa, which never assume the polypoid form ; and this alternation is constant. M. Sars observes, on the generation of Salpa! (Erichson's Archiv. 1841, t. i. p. 29.), that " the SalpcE correspond in this with the Medusa, that it is not their larva which are developed into the perfect animal, but the progeny of the larva; it is not the individual, but the generation, which is metamorphosed." 4 K