STATISTICS. 810 relating to the duration of life of the aristo- cracy, and the second on the facts relating to the duration of life of the combined upper and middle classes. For the sake of per- spicuity, the average of all the facts in either table is distinguished by a larger type. These tables speak for themselves. In the first table, for instance, the small number of 25 facts is seen to yield the same average as the total of 1800 facts in no less than 9 in- stances, or one eighth of the whole number ; while in 26 out of 72 instances, or more than one third, the average of 25 facts exceeds or falls short of the average of 1800 facts by only a single unit. In like manner, it ap- pears from the second table, that in 20 cases out of 128, or little less than one sixth, the average of 50 facts coincides with that of 6400 facts; and that in 42 out of 128, or nearly one third, it differs from it only by a single unit. Without entering into a minute examination of the other columns of the two tables, it will suffice to state that the proba- bility in favour of an average of a given num- ber of observations coinciding with the true average increases with the number of observ- ations ; so that we are again brought back to the expediency of collecting large numbers of observations wherever it is practicable so to do. In using small numbers of facts to establish data for reasoning or standards of comparison, we are bound to speak with dif- fidence of their sufficiency, and we ought to regard them rather in the light of probabilities requiring to be strengthened by other pro- babilities, as weak arguments require to be supported by additional reasons, than as, in themselves, worthy of great reliance. Ac- cording to this view of the case, we are not precluded from the use of averages drawn from small numbers of facts. The employ- ment of such averages with this proviso is an absolute scientific necessity; for in many in- stances we are prevented by causes too nu- merous to specify from bringing together facts by the hundred or the thousand, and yet, were we to reject the smaller numbers as in- admissible, we should be thrown back upon the still more loose and less trustworthy general statements from which it is the pro- vince of statistics to rescue us. An examination of the two foregoing tables, as well as of those which display the extreme variations between the averages derived from the same numbers of facts, will serve to prove the hopelessness of any attempt to establish by observation rules for measuring the rela- tive value of averages derived from different numbers of facts. It must be equally evident that no deductions drawn from observation can enable us to state the actual liability to error of any given number of facts, considered as facts, without reference to their peculiar nature. To determine this liability to error belongs solely to the mathematics. If, on the one hand, observation is unable to supply us with the means of testing the true liability to error of conclusions based on a given number of facts, considered as facts, without reference to their peculiar nature, it must be evident, on the other hand, that ma- thematical formulas deduced from abstract reasoning can only supply us with the means of measuring the value of a given number of facts in this their abstract relation, without taking into account the varying quality of the facts themselves. But as it is of the utmost importance to be able to test the abstract sufficiency of a given number of facts to establish a principle or to supply a sound standard of comparison, it will be necessary to enter at some length into this part of our subject. The facts already adduced, must have abundantly shown that the limits of deviation from a true average result are wider or nar- rower as the number of facts from which the average is drawn is smaller or greater. Many eminent mathematicians, and M. Poisson among the number, have laboured to convert this general principle into an exact numerical' expression or formula, applicable as a test of the true value of larger or smaller collections of facts, and as an exact measure of the limits of variation. M. Gavarret, in his work on Medical Statistics, contends successfully for the introduction of these formulae into the service of the medical man ; and adopting the sentiment of Laplace, " Le systeme tout entier des connaissances humaines se rattache a, la theorie des probabilites," he insists that medical statistics, or, as we prefer to term it, the Numerical Method, applied to medicine, is nothing more nor less than a special appli- cation of the Calculus of Probabilities, and the Theory of large Numbers ; and that as such it is the most indispensable complement of the experimental method. In other words, he deems it incumbent on the medical man to apply to his numerical results the corrections supplied by the formulae of the pure mathe- matics ; and before he concludes that any number actually obtained by observation is a true representative of a fact or law, to deter- mine whether that number may not be com- prised within the limits of possible variation. M. Gavarret illustrates the necessity of this precaution by applying his mathematical for- mulae to a great variety of results based upon observation; but he especially insists upon bringing the alleged efficacy of certain modes of treatment to this searching test. The most convenient course to adopt, in reference to these formulae, will be to present the calcula- tions based upon them in tabular forms, and then to apply these calculations to one or two striking examples. The following table presents at one view the possible errors corresponding to average mortalities deduced from different numbers of observations. It is obvious that the table is equally applicable to other contingencies of the same kind, where one of two events is possible in every instance. The mode of using it will be presently explained and illus- trated.