1226 TUNICATA. process of formation ; the former constitutes the principal mass of the excretory tube. The internal part of the tail, which is apparently a direct continuation of the substance of the embryo, possesses an interior cavity, and its walls are composed of two layers of cells. The internal layer is formed of cells of 0-012'" diameter, rectangular, with the angles slightly rounded, distinctly nucleated, and containing fine yellowish granules. They are very regularly arranged side by side in transverse series, so that the cavity of the tail is always surrounded by 10—12 cells. The external layer is composed of a continuous, simple layer, formed of minute cells, measur- ing 0-003"'—0-004."', without any distinct ar- rangement. It is to be observed that this tail, formed simply of cells and a homogeneous envelope, exhibits very active movements, affording a new proof of the contractility of parts composed merely of simple cells. The body of the embryos of Aplidium and Amaroucium is formed (at an early stage) of a thick, homogeneous, external layer, and a yellowish mass enclosed within it. In the spherical portion of the body, this mass is ap- parently wholly composed of round cells, of different sizes, and containing nuclei, and, towards the interior, probably unaltered glo- bules produced by the division of the vitellus. These two elements do not compose any dis- tinct organ ; but only form two layers, one internal and opaque, and the other external and diaphanous. In Amaroucium Nordmanni there is no canal within the tail, but its centre is occupied by a simple series of large rectan- gular nucleated cells, producing a transversely radiated appearance, visible even when mode- rately magnified ; the tail has also an external simple layer of minute cells, as in Botryllus. Savigny, also, was led by his researches to regard both the ovum of Bolryllus and that of Pyrosoma as giving birth to several individuals having already a certain order of arrangement. This view, in the case of the Bolryllus, is, as we have seen, supported by Lowig, Kolliker, and Sars, and is considered by Van Beneden as founded on fact and supported by analogy. Milne-Edwards, however, is not disposed to admit this conclusion ; for, in his opinion, the existence of the four embryos united in a circle in the Pyrosoma, and the development of a single star of germs in the larval Bolryl- lus, do not sufficiently account for the associa- tion of many such groups in the adult age; there being, for instance, in the adult Pyrosoma, many hundred individuals of different de- grees of development. Van Beneden thinks it probable that the presumed aggregate larvae produce colonies similar to themselves by fis- siparous reproduction; but Milne-Edwards gives it as his confirmed opinion that, from the single product of the ovum, the other asso- ciated individuals arise by gemmiparqus repro- duction only. Of this mode of generation in the Botryllidce we will now proceed to give a slight sketch, again acknowledging the labours of the learned Professor of the Garden of Plants as the chief source of our information. In Diazona, Didemnum, Bolryllus, and Bo- trylloides, the common test is traversed by numerous ramifying prolongations of the inner tunic of the individual animals, terminating either simply in culs-de-sac, or swelling out into germs {fig. 785.). Savigny figured these Fig. 785. Vertical Section halfway through a Mass of Botryllus, magnified about 6 diameters. {Original), a, animals on one of the exterior surfaces of the mass; b, proliferous stolons, traversing the mass, and bearing reproductive germs. tubular bodies, and vaguely described them under the name of "marginal tubes" and "vascular branches." And Delle Chiaje*, in treating of Polyc/inium, figures and describes " vessels " which are probably these ramifying canals. These membranous tubes, with their terminal vesicular enlargements, are readily seen during life in those species that possess a semitransparent test. Milne-Edwards ob- serves that in Bolryllus and Botrylloides, {figs. 785 and 783, t, t'), each of these interior ap- pendages appears at first as a little tubercle on the surface of the abdominal portion of the inner tunic of the adult animal. The tubercle then becomes elongated, forming a tube, the free extremity of which is closed, its cavity communicating with the abdominal cavity of the animal from which it springs. The blood from the abdominal cavity circulates through- out this caecal tube, with a very active double current. As the tubes lengthen, they generally become ramified, and soon present swollen or claviform extremities. The circulation con- tinues active, and before long there is visible towards the summit of each terminal swelling a minute granular mass, the colour of which approaches that of the thorax of the adult animals situated close by. A little later this organised mass begins to present the form of a little Ascidian, and soon afterwards becomes a young animal, similar to those already occu- * Memoirs, second edition, torn. i. p. 34. tabl. 83. figs. 13. and 15.