1310 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. instance of friendly recognition towards him- self and other persons, shown by a bitch wolf at the Zoological Gardens ; and cites from Mr. Fred. Cuvier a very remarkable instance of affectionate and submissive attachment shown by a young wolf towards the individual by whom he had been brought up, in a degree that scarcely seems inferior to that manifested by the dog. " Now, if we find," he remarks, " that the mere education of a young wolf, taken from its parents in a wild state, could so far change its natural disposition, and render it so fond, so intelligent, and so grate- ful as this, what may we not expect from the successive transmission of improvement by the culture and training of a whole race for ages?" On the other hand, in those races of dogs which have become emancipated from human control, the psychical nature of the wolf developes itself, in precise proportion to the approach presented to its physical charac- ters. And even in the most domesticated breeds, instances of spontaneous reversion to wild habits are occasionally to be met with. " Thus," says Mr. Blyth, " I have known this to occur in a male pointer and a female grey- hound ; the latter was so fine a specimen of the breed, that on being entrapped, it was thought desirable to obtain a litter from her, which was accordingly effected; but while her puppies were very young, she managed to escape to the woods, and never returned ; three of her progeny grew to be excellent hounds, but two others proved quite irreclaim- able, and escaping from servitude, like their dam, were finally shot, for their destructive poaching propensities."* Thus it appears that, even if we hesitate in pronouncing in favour of the specific identity of the dog and the wolf, there is, at any rate, no valid ground for the establishment of a specific distinction between them ; and if it should prove that the hybrid offspring are fer- tile amongst themselves, and that a vigorous mixed race is the result, the probability of their specific identity would be greatly in- creased. The required proof, however, could only be afforded by the actual production from the wolf stock, of a race having the aptitude for domestication, and capacity for variation, exhibited by the dog. There is another mode of looking at the question, however, which has been recently suggested by Professor Agassiz.j' This distin- guished naturalist thinks it impossible to ac- count for the geographical distribution and va- rieties of conformation of many existing species of animals, without having recourse to the idea that, instead of all the individuals of that spe- cies having descended from a single parentage, or pair of ' protoplasts,' they are the offspring of several distinct pairs of' protoplasts,' first introduced in different localities, all possessing the same essential nature, but having that nature modified in accordance with the spe- * Translation of Cuyier's Regne Animal, p. 90. t See his recent woA on the Fishes of Lake Su- perior ; also the Ediftb. New Philos. Jouni., April, 1850. cial conditions in which each was destined to exist. From the definition of species, there- fore, he would exclude the idea of identity of descent, and would substitute that of similarity ; but would still base his distinction of species, as do other naturalists, on the constant trans- mission of some well-marked peculiarity com- mon to all the races, and would thus as- sociate all those which obvious!}' partake of a common nature, and are disposed to free intermixture, notwithstanding the non-iden- tity of their parentage.* He would probably accord with other naturalists, therefore, in regarding the different breeds of dogs as va- rieties of one species ; but would attribute the origin of their several peculiarities in part to the differences in their first parents, which were not, however, sufficient to constitute specific distinctions. Although there may be cases in which such an hypothesis presents the readiest solution of the difficulty, yet it can scarcely be accepted as applicable to that of the dog; for we do not here find that the races which most nearly approximate to the wild state in different parts of the world, do present any differences that enable us to re- gard them as the respective ancestors of our most diverse domesticated breeds. If, for example, it could be shown that the Esqui- maux dog peculiarly resembled the mastiff", that the Indian dhole might be regarded as the progenitor of the greyhound, that the * Of the hypothesis of the radiation of species from several distinct centres, Prof. E. Forbes may be regarded as the most conspicuous opponent. He has laboured to show that the peculiarities in the geographical distribution of existing species are quite reconcilable with the idea of migration from single centres, and that, generally speaking, they necessarily lead to that idea; whilst, on the other hand, in those instances in which detached or out- lying spots occur, remote from the principal area of distribution, and from each other, he considers that these represent the original extent of range, which has been subsequently interrupted by geological changes that have been fatal to the existence of the species over the intermediate connecting areas,— as, by the substitution of water for land, or of land for water; by the elevation or depression of the sea- bottom, in a degree incompatible with the continued existence of the species if it be marine ; by similar changes in the land, exerting a like influence on ter- restrial species; by alterations thus induced in the course and connection of rivers and watercourses, which have broken up the areas of fluviatile and la- custrine species; by changes of temperature conse- quent upon remoter causes; and many other in- fluences too numerous here to recount. He affirms that, in so many cases, these peculiarities may be thus explained by knoivn geological changes, which have occurred since the introduction of the species in question (this being the case peculiarly with those that existed in the glacial epoch, and then had an extensive southern range, which is now only in- dicated by their occurrence in outlying spots, the principal area of the species being now restricted to the circum-polar regions, in consequence of the more elevated temperature of the parts beyond), that we have fair ground for extending this view to all, and for in ferring the occurrence of geological changes, subsequently to the first diffusion of particular species, from the peculiarities of its existing distri- bution. As yet, however, his views on this subject have not been given to the world in any complete form, save by oral discourses.