VEIN. 1.379 4 t 2 but it cannot be to valves in general: a para- bola is a constant form, but the outline of the valves is various. It appears to me that the outline of a valve rather conforms to the ellipse, the curve being sometimes very much elongated, sometimes nearly approaching a circle. An ellipse is obtained from a cylinder, by an oblique section of it; an oblique sec- tion of a cylinder will only give an ellipse. For the line of attachment, therefore, of a valve with the cylindrical surface of a vein to generate an elliptical curve, that line of attach- ment must coincide with an oblique section of the cylinder : and we see that this is fre- quently the case, that is, when the valve is viewed in profile, its attached margin forms a right line at an angle, more or less acute, with the wall of the vein, the acuteness of the angle determining the elongation of the el- lipse. This is represented inJig.86-i.n, where a shows the line of attachment seen in profile, and «' the curve generated by that line when seen in face. But sometimes the attached margin does not form, when viewed laterally, a straight line, but is more or less curved, as seen at Jig. B, b b', and then we necessarily get Fig. 864. A a a A i \ a! Diagram exhibiting the Attachment and consequent Forms of Valves. A, section of valves in action, a, elongated ellip- tical valve ; b, broad semilunar valve. B, exhibits the lines of attachment of, a, elliptical valve in profile, and a', the resulting form; b, the attachment of parabolic valve in profile, and V, the resulting form. an aberration from the ellipse, and an approxi- mation, more or less near, to the parabola. Now, in such valves as are placed in pairs in the canals of veins, with their convex faces opposing and their cornua in contact, their relative length and breadth depend upon the obliquity of their attachment,— the require- ments being constant, namely, that the op- posed valves should meet by their free mar- gins in aline across the centre of the vessel,— for if the attachment be oblique and extend more in the axis of the vessel, it will require a much deeper valve to reach its fellow in the centre, than if the attachment were more across the tube, where a short, broad valve would accomplish the object. These two con- ditions are represented in the figure (Jig. SG4. a.), which is an ideal section of a vein, in which both forms of valves are seen in a state of action. Valves in the canals of veins, though in contact by their cornua, are sufficiently loose and large to fall back fully upon the sides of the vessels to allow the progressing current to pass on uninterruptedly. A valve the furthest removed in form from those first mentioned, is represented in Jig. 863. a, which is the drawing of a valve situated at the orifice of the emulgent vein, where it joins the inferior cava in the sheep. Its depth is very considerable in proportion to its width, and the centre of its attached margin is nearly an acute angle, produced by the angle at which the renal vein joins the cava.* Structure of valves. — A venous valve con- sists of a thin fibrous lamina, protruded into the tube of the vessel. If the attached margin be carefully cut from the wall of a vein, and the organ be extended upon a slip of glass, it is seen to be thin at the free margin and thick at the attached ; if it be viewed by transmitted light, with the naked eye, it will be seen that the body of the valve is divided, rather indistinctly, into two portions, of which the free half is thinner and bluish-white, while the other is much thicker, and of a yellowish colour ; the line of demarcation, between these, extending across the body of the valve about parallel with the free margin ; this however, does not exist, in some valves. The examination of a valve with the mi- croscope requires that it should be completely unfolded at its free margin, in the neighbour- hood of which, in the larger valves, its struc- ture can alone be successfully observed, on account of the thickness and opacity of the other parts of the valve. When removed from a vein it should be placed upon a slip of glass, moistened, and, the attached margin being seized with forceps, it should be drawn over the surface of the glass so as to unravel any folds of the free margin, which are apt to occur. The epithelium cannot always be found on the face of the valve, and to see it the body must be very thin, and the focus of the in- strument be thrown superficial to the fibrous lamina, when their nuclei will sometimes be viewed pretty distinctly. They are scattered evenly over the surface, but the cell-wall is extremely ill-defined, or not to be made out. At the margin of the valve they are frequently to be seen in one or two conditions, — free, detached nuclei, accidentally adherent along the margin ; or cells, seen edgewise, with con- spicuous nuclei, as already described. The Jibro7is lamina is the most conspicuous element of the valve, and constitutes its bulk. It consists almost entirely of white fibrous tissue, extending from side to side of the valve, running parallel with the free margin, and continuous, apparently, with the circular coat of the vein on each side of the attached * The extreme depth of the valve here represented is not constant; it sometimes barely reaches across the orifice.