THYROID GLAND. 1114 attained, if the origin of the vessels had been below instead of above the point of giving off of the arteries to the brain Besides, however, this argument, two others may be mentioned which at least favour the same view. One is, that no special characteristic principle appears to exist in the secretion of the thyroid, but that it is a mere modification of albuminous matter,—this seeming to imply that no special use is served by the secretion of the gland, that it is not elaborated for the sake of pro- ducing any peculiar effect on some other part, but that it is simply secerned from the circu- lating current for a time, to return and mingle with it again in a condition but little altered from its primitive one of blood-plasma. The other argument is drawn from the con- dition of the epithelium, which, as we have before remarked, seems adapted for rapid and transitory action, so that it might quickly secrete a large amount of material on any diminution of the nutrient processes in the brain. These arguments may be allowed to possess some weight. Before, however, this theory can be regarded as at all established, a more sure and discriminating chemistry must prove some relation of composition to exist between the secretion of the th} roid and the grey nervous matter. Till this is done we can but deal with the question afar off, without bringing it to an exact issue. Morbid Anatomy.—The following morbid changes have been observed to occur in the thyroid; (0 It maybe affected with com- mon inflammation. (2) It may be variously altered by unhealthy or perverted action of its own glandular structure. (3) It may be the seat of adventitious formations. (4) Its vessels may become remarkably enlarged, as in the so called aneurism by anastomosis. Inflammation. — Professor Hasse gives the following description of inflammation occur- ring in the thyroid. " It is rare, but may at- tack the organ cither when healthy, or when enlarged by previous disease. Its course is more frequently chronic than acute. Within a very brief interval the gland often swells considerably, becomes very bloodshot, tense, and painful, its texture softened and friable, assuming at first a brown red, and ultimately a dingy gray colour. The morbid anatomy of this grade of inflammation is but imper- fectly known ; that of the suppurative stace has been more frequently observed, and more fully described. Either separate ab- scesses form, or else the entire gland is converted into pus. Under favourable cir- cumstances the abscess opens externally through the skin. There are, however, ex- amples of its obtaining vent through the oesophagus, and determining a protracted fistula of the gullet,* or of its discharging itself into the trachea, and producing death by suffocation.f After evacuation of the pus, together with numerous shreds of dead cellular tissue, the tumour collapses ; the gland on the * linger, Beitrage zur Klinik der Cliirurg. vol. i. f Meckel. side affected shrivels into a hard, cellulo- filamentous knot, which adheres firmly to the skin and to the surrounding parts. Some- times the shrivelling of the one gradually brings on wasting of the other lobe." Alterations of Structure. — Under the se- cond head may be included hypertrophy of the thyroid, or some enlargement without appreciable change of texture. " This variety,' Prof. Hasse states, " is frequent, and for the most part inconsiderable." It probably depends merely on distension of the glan- dular cavities by their accumulated secre- tion. This change is almost wholly " confined to youth, and is frequent about the age of puberty in both sexes,— more so, however, in the female." " Alternatives of increase and decrease are especially apparent in this kind of bronchocele, enlargement being most con- spicuous at the approach of the menstrual period." This form, though it may be called hypertrophy, is not quite strictly so desig- nated, as there is no formation of new glandu- lar tissue, but only distension of the original cavities, by an increased quantity of secretion. " Meticerous degeneration of the thyroid is one of the most frequent forms. It occurs at all ages, and is uniformly attended with intu- mescence. It may involve the organ in whole or in part. In the former case the component granules (or vesicles) are found unusually and unequally enlarged, and transformed into sepa- rate cells filled with a tenacious, viscous, jelly - like substance, of the colour of honey. The entire part is hard, nearly bloodless, and but loosely coherent with the surrounding parts. Where, as frequently happens, only certain portions aredisorganized, these form spherical tumours varying in size, and imbedded clearly in the healthy structure. They present a brownish or yellow colour, and the consistency of jelly or of melted glue. Sometimes they appear as an opaque, reddish, soft, or even lardaceous, swelling. In general but few blood vessels are visible in this goitre,although it may now and then be associated with ex- uberant vascular growth." The foregoing description is quoted from the translation by the Sydenham Society of Professor Hasse'swork. He does not, how- even seem to notice sufficiently, under this head, the variety of matters which are found in the enlarged glandular cavities. Cretaceous matter, either in a pulverulent state, or form- ing hard ossiform masses, I believe often occurs, and in Prep. 1498, of the Patholo- gical collection in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, there is seen a quantity of solid white substance, either opaque and soft, or transparent, firm and chondroid, which oc- cupies the larger cavities, the majority being filled with a transparent jelly-like material; some also with cretaceous matter. One in- teresting instance, probably belonging to this class, is quoted in the Cyclop, of Pract. Medi- cine from DeHfien:—"In cadavere horren- dam mole thyroideam nactus, publice dissecui. Mecum auditores mirabantur, nullum feregenus tumorum dari, quin in hac sola thyroidea in-