1027 THORAX. 3 u 2 the 7th rib and place it on a table it will be observed that the extremities cannot simul- taneously rest upon one plane, because it is twisted upon itself. This is due to what is called the curve of torsion. The rib is twisted at each end ; hence a posterior and an ante- rior torsion. The posterior torsion is most conspicuous, and is therefore more commonly noticed. (a) Posterior torsion. — This torsion is marked at the angle of the rib (h,Jig. CG3.), particularly upon the convex surface, by an oblique line or a series of faint lines directed from above downwards and forwards. Like other features of the ribs, it passes through gradations, being scarcely perceptible in the 2nd rib, more so in the 3rd, and in- creasing to the maximum in the 8th, in the 9th and 10th it quickly decreases, until it is lost in the 11th and 12th. The greater the torsion the more distinct is the angle ; where the angle is rudimentary the torsion is imper- ceptible, as in the 11th and 12th ribs. The degrees of this torsion as it passes through the ribs are most distinctly seen by having the ribs separate, and placing them on a flat surface with their superior edge upper- most, arranging them so that they do not quite touch each other, when the heads of the dif- ferent ribs will stand up at different heights from the table, forming a somewhat regular wave. This is solely produced by this posterior torsion. (b) Anterior torsion. — Near the anterior extremity, on the convex surface, in well- developed ribs, we observe an oblique line analogous to that at the angle of the rib, but much less distinctly marked. This line may be considered as forming the anterior angle and corresponding torsion of the ribs, which, like the posterior, is intended for more favour- able muscular insertions. Although the anterior angle is comparatively feebly marked, the anterior torsion of the ribs is as well defined as the posterior torsion. It will be seen in Jig. 667, that while the posterior extremity of the rib curls vpwards, the an- terior extremity curls downwards. In like manner as we notice the posterior torsion by placing the separate ribs on a table, so may the anterior torsion be as strikingly seen, taking care to place the ribs upon their superior edge so that the sharp inferior edge is turned upwards. The anterior ends will be seen to stand up in different degrees from the table according to their torsion, commenc- ing with the 3rd or 4th and terminating with the 10th rib. Articulations of the ribs. — The ribs are articulated behind with the dorsal vertebras, and in front with the sternum through the medium of the costal cartilages. This has already been noticed under Extremities of the ribs. Position of the ribs. — The ribs are arranged more or less obliquely, — about midway between the perpendicular and horizontal (Jigs. CG2. and G83.) ; — and they somewhat diverge from each other as they approach the sternum.(Jigs. 662. 680. and 681.) Not one of them is horizontal, though commonly re- presented as if they were. Their position is given injig. 662. This is important to remem- ber, because we shall see that costal breathing altogether depends upon their obliquity. Structure. — The compact and spongy sub- stances are so distributed throughout the whole length of the ribs that they possess a certain degree of flexibility, with great power of resistance. In young subjects the compact substance is in excess ; in the aged, and in certain diseases, the opposite is the case; hence the extreme fragility of these bones, which are then broken by the least effort. Development. — The ribs are amongst the earliest developed bones, ossification com- mencing in them even somewhat before it has made its appearance in the vertebra?. The deposition of osseous matter extends rapidly throughout them. Each rib (with exceptions to be noticed) is formed from one principal piece ; and two epiphyses. Of these two epiphyses, one forms the head of the rib, and the other the tubercle : their ossification commences between the sixteenth and twentieth years of age ; and they are united to the rest of the bone a few years after, — about the twenty-fifth year. II. Special characters of different ribs.—The differential characters of the ribs, when mi- nutely examined, are well marked ; for, strictly speaking, no two ribs on the same side are of the same shape and dimensions. Although the difference is very small between two con- tiguous ribs, as, for instance, between the cen- tral ribs, i. c. between the 6th, 7th, and 8th, yet it is very conspicuous between those of the top compared with those of the bottom of the thorax. Whatever be the peculiarity under examination, we find it most developed in the 6th or 7th rib; and below this it becomes less and less marked, until, in the 12th rib, it appears rudimentary. In fact, the 12th rib may be considered little more than a prolonged transverse process; but not so with the 1st rib, which possesses all the marks and uses necessary to the character of a rib. The ribs differ in their length, and in their chord and versed-sine measurements, and consequently in the area of thorax which they encompass. The thoracic dimensions vary considerably in different men and in the two sexes; yet the relative measurements and weight of the ribs will be found useful to our comprehending more perfectly the res- piratory movements. These relative measurememts are from a well-formed male thorax. The area-measure- ment is calculated from an internal cast of the thorax, cut up slice by slice through each intercostal space. These slices were traced upon paper and measured, giving the absolute area of thoracic cavity encompassed by each pair of ribs, their cartilages, and the sternum. (SeeJig. 668.)