898 TEETH. in the system of Linnaeus a small fraction of his genus Lacerta. Dental System of Mammals. The class Mammalia, like that of Rcptilia and Pisces, includes a few genera and species that are devoid of teeth : the true ant-eaters (Myrmecophaga), the scaly ant-eaters or Pan- golins {Mams), and the spiny monotrematous ant-eater (Echidna), are examples of strictly edentulous Mammals. The Ornithorkynchus has horny teeth, and the whales (Bahcna and BalcBnoptera) have transitory embryonic cal- cified teeth*, succeeded by whalebone sub- stitutesf in the upper jaw. Horny processes analogous to, perhaps homologous with, the lingual and palatal teeth in fishes, are present in the Echidna. The female Narwhal seems to be eden- tulous, but has the germs of two tusks in the substance of the upper jaw-bones; one of these becomes developed into a large and conspicuous weapon in the male Narwhal, and, accordingly, suggested to Linnaeus the name, for its genus, of Monodon, meaning single tooth : but the tusk is never median, like the truly single tooth on the palate of the Myxine ; and occasionally both tusks are developed in the Narwhal. In another Ceta- cean, the great Bottle-nose, or Hyperoodon, the teeth are reduced in the adult to two in number, whence the specific name H. bidens, but they are confined to the lower jaw. The sharp-nosed dolphin (Ziphius) has also but two teeth, one in each ramus of the lower jaw ; and this is, perhaps, a sexual character. The Delphinus griseus has five teeth on each side of the lower jaw ; but they soon become reduced to two. Amongst the marsupial ani- mals, the genus Tarsipcs is remarkable for the paucity as well as minuteness of its teeth. The elephant has never more than one entire molar, or parts of two, in use on each side of the upper and lower jaws ; to which are added two tusks, more or less developed, in the upper jaw. Some Rodents, as the Australian Water- rats (Hydromys), have two grinders on each side of both jaws; which, added to the four cutting teeth in front, make twelve in all : the common number of teeth in this order is twenty ; but the hares and rabbits have twenty- eight teeth. The sloth has eighteen teeth. The number of teeth, thirty-two, which cha- racterises man, the apes of the old world, and the true ruminants, is the average one of the class Mammalia ; but the typical number is forty-four. The examples of excessive number of teeth are presented, in the order Bruta, by the Priodont Armadillo, which has ninety-eight teeth ; and, in the cetaceous order, by the Cachalot, which has upwards of sixty teeth, though most of them are confined to the lower jaw ; by the common porpoise, which has between eighty and ninety teeth ; by the * Odontography, pi. 87 a,_fit/s. 1—G. t lb. pi. 7ii,Ji(js. 4. G; art. Cetacea, Vol. I. p. 572, fig. 259 b. Gangetic dolphin, which has one hundred and twenty teeth ; and by the true dolphins (Delphinus), which have from one hundred to one hundred and ninety teeth, yielding the maximum number in the class Mammalia. Form.—Where the teeth are in excessive number, as in the species above cited, they are small, equal, or subequal, and of a simple conical form ; pointed, and slightly recurved in the common dolphin ; with a broad and flattened base in the gangetic dolphin (Inia); with the crown compressed, and broadest in the porpoise ; compressed but truncate, and equal with the fang, in the Priodon. The compressed triangular teeth become coarsely notched or dentated, at the hinder part of the series, in the great extinct cetaceous Zeu- glodon. The simple dentition of the smaller Armadillos, of the Orycterope, and of the three-toed Sloth, presents a difference in the size, but little variety in the shape of the teeth, which are subcylindrical, with broad triturating surfaces ; in the two-toed Sloth, the two anterior teeth of the upper jaw are longer and larger than the rest, and adapted for piercing and tearing. In almost all the other Mammalia, particular teeth have special forms for special uses : thus, the front teeth, from being commonly adapted to effect the first coarse division of the food, have been called cutters or incisors ; and the back teeth, which complete its com- minution, grinders or molars; large conical teeth, situated behind the incisors, and adapted by being nearer the insertion of the biting muscles, to act with greater force, are called holders, tearers, laniaries, or more commonly canine teeth, from being well developed in the dog and other Carnivora, although they are given, likewise, to many vegetable feeders for defence or combat: e.g. Musk-deer (Jig. 580, VII.). Molar teeth, which are adapted for mastication, have either tuberculate, or ridged, or flat, summits ; and usually are either sur- rounded by a fence of enamel, or are tra- versed by enamel plates arranged in various patterns. Certain molars in the Dugong, the Mylodon, and the Zeuglodon, are so deeply indented laterally by opposite longi- tudinal grooves, as to appear, when abraded, to be composed of two cylindrical teeth ce- mented together, and the transverse section of the crown is bilobed. The teeth of the Glyptodon were fluted by two analogous grooves on each side. The large molars of the Capybara and Elephant have the crown cleft into a numerous series of compressed transverse plates, cemented together side by side. The teeth of the Mammalia have usually so much more definite and complex a form than those of fishes and reptiles, that three parts are recognised in them : viz. the " fang," the "neck," and the "crown." The fang or root (radix) is the inserted part ; the crown (corona) the exposed part; and the construe tion which divides these is called the neck (cervix). The term " fang " is properly given only to the implanted part of a tooth of re-