TEETH. 888 the fang of the large Cobra in my " Odonto- graphy " (pi. 65. fig. 9., and in Vol". IV. p. 290. Jig. 210., art. Reftilia), where a fine hair is represented as passing through the poison- canal. The poison-glands occupy the sides of the posterior half of the head ; each gland con- sists of a number of elongated narrow lobes, extending from the main duct, which runs along the lower border of the gland upwards and slightly backwards: each lobe gives ofF lobules throughout its extent, thus presenting a pinnatifid structure; and each lobule is subdivided into smaller secerning caeca, which constitute the ultimate structure of the gland. The whole gland is surrounded by a double aponeurotic capsule, of which the outermost and strongest layer is in connection with the muscles by whose contraction the several caeca and lobes of the gland are compressed and emptied of their secretion. This is then con- veyed by the duct (see Reptilia, Vol. IV. p. 291., Jig. 211. e) to the basal aperture of the poison-canal of the fangj£ We may suppose, that as the analogous lachrymal and salivary- glands in other animals are most active during particular emotions, so the rage which stimu- lates the venom-snake to use its deadly weapon must be accompanied with an increased secre- tion and great distension of the poison-glands ; and as the action of the compressing muscles is contemporaneous with the blow by which the serpent inflicts the wound, the poison is at the same moment injected with force into the wound from the apical outlet of the per- forated fang. The duct which conveys the poison, al- though it runs through the centre of a great part of the tooth, is really on the outside of the tooth, the canal in which it is lodged and protected being formed by a longi- tudinal inflection of the dentinal parietes of the pulp-cavity. This inflection com- Fig. 567. A B Poison-fangs of Serpents. {Magnified.') mences a little beyond the base of the tooth, where its nature is readily appreciated, as the poison-duct there rests in a slight groove or longitudinal indentation on the convex side of the fang; as it proceeds it sinks deeper into the substance of the tooth, and the sides of the groove meet and seem to coalesce, so that the trace of the inflected fold ceases, in some species, to be perceptible to the naked eye ; and the fang appears, as it is commonly described, to be perforated by the duct of the poison-gland. In the Hydrofhk the groove remains permanently open, as in fig 567. c. From the real nature of the poison-canal it follows that the transverse section of the tooth varies in form in different parts of the tooth ; at the base it is oblong, with a large pulp-cavity of a corresponding form, with an entering notch at the anterior surface; farther on the transverse section presents the form of a horse-shoe, and the pulp-cavity that of a crescent, the horns of which extend into the sides of the deep cavity of the poison- fang : a little beyond this part the section of the tooth itself is crescentic, with the horns obtuse and in contact, so as to circumscribe the poison-canal; and along the whole of the middle four-sixths of the tooth, the section, of which a magnified view is given in Jig. 568., Fig. 568. Section of poison-fang of Serpent. {Magnified.) shows the dentine of the fang inclosing the poison-canal, and having its own centre or pulp-canal (p,p), in the form of a crescentic fissure, situated close to the concave border of the inflected surface of the tooth. The pulp- cavity disappears, and the poison-canal again resumes the form of a groove near the apex of the fang, and terminates on the anterior surface in an elongated fissure. The venom-fangs of the viper, rattle-snake, and the Fer-de-lance are coated only with a thin layer of a subtransparent and minutely cellular cement. The disposition of the den- tinal tubes is obedient to the general law of verticality to the external surface of the tooth ; it is represented as seen in the transverse sec- tion from the middle of the fang mfig. 568. Since the inflected surface of the tooth can be exposed to no other pressure than that of