TUNICATA. 1193 genus Salpa, Forskahl; synonyms Thalia, Brown ; Holothuria, Linneand Pallas ; Dagysa, Banks and Solander ; Biphora, Brugiere ; Tethis, Tilesius ; Pcgca and Iasis, Savigny. The characteristic features of this genus are detailed above. Quoy and Gaimard * established for some animals nearly allied to the Salpes and inha- biting the coasts of Amboina, the genus Do- liolium, the characters of which are, its having the form of a little cask open at the ends; from two to ten lines in length ; the anterior extremity a little prominent ; marked with circles in relief on the external surface; and having internal branchia, divided into two branches; and a heart and a dorsal vessel, si- tuated near the union of these branches. This name had also been previously given by Otto-j- to a genus established by him on a Mediterra- nean Salpa, mutilated by a crustacean of the genus Phronymc, that had made it its habita- tion. This form, like Salpa triangularis and S. polymorpha (by Quoy and Gaimard, and Bory de Vincent), has been erroneously regarded as belonging to the family of JDiphydes. MM. Lowig and Kolliker, however, who found the tissue of Doliolium to be identical with the pe- culiar substance of the test of other Tunicata, have pointed out its true affinities, and placed it with the Salpidce. Family Pelonaiadte, Forbes.— This fa- mily is represented by two rare animals, both inhabitants of the Scottish seas, constituting two species of a single genus, Pelonaia, esta- blished by Professor E. Forbes and Professor Goodsir.J We have derived our description of the general and anatomical characters of these interesting Molluscs from the detailed account given of them by the original dis- coverers. Genus Pelonaia, Forbes and Goodsir. — Animal simple, unattached. Test more or less cartilaginous, smooth or wrinkled, elon- gated, and cylindrical ; anterior extremity bearing two orifices, four-cleft, without ten- tacles, and placed on the same plane, on two equal, approximate, papillose eminences ; posterior extremity ending in a blunt point ; mantle adherent to the test. The Pelonake live buried in mud, quite unattached to any other body, and are extremely apathetic ani- mals, presenting scarcely any appearance of motion. Anatomy and Physiology of the Tuni- cata. It will be most convenient to describe the test generally for the whole tunicate class, and the rest of their anatomy under the heading of each of the families. Test or Shell. — The test or external enve- lope of the Ascidiada; is subject to considerable variation of shape ; from the bottle-like form of the Ascidia { fig. 766.), to the flat, patella- like form of Chelyosoma (fig. 767.) ; it is elastic, * Voyage de 1'Astrolabe, Zoologie, torn. iii. f Nova Acta Academ. Nat. Curios, t. xi. % Jameson's Edinb. New Philosoph. Journal, vol. xxxi. 184.1. varying very much in its thickness and con- sistence in different species. In colour it varies considerably, being occasionally nearly black, sometimes red, orange, yellow, or milky white. Its surface is sometimes smooth, often tuberculated, covered with hairs or spines, or otherwise roughened. Sometimes minute patches of horny tissue or hardened epidermis rise up irregularly on the surface of the test; in other cases these are placed in a tessellated arrangement. In the peculiar and unique form, Chelyosoma, first noticed by Messrs. Broderip and Sowerby, and since more fully described by Professor Eschricht, the upper surface of the test is occupied by eight large, horny, polygonal plates arranged some- what like the shell-plates of a tortoise, and by several smaller triangular plates, which form two circles, one around the branchial, and the other round the anal aperture of the animal (fig. 767.). The large plates are so disposed that the branchial orifice is surrounded by three plates, and the anal by four, besides that which is intermediate and abuts upon both: this latter plate is hexagonal, the sides in con- tact with the orificial valvules are lunated. The three plates near the branchial orifice are much larger than the four which are near to the anal orifice. Each of the plates is marked with three or four elevated striae, which are near to the edges of the plate, and parallel with them, leaving an area in the centre, and giving rise to a general resemblance to the external plates of the shell of a land tortoise. The orifices are very small, and are surrounded by six triangular valvules, each transversely stri- ated, and, when shut, rising from the sur- rounding surface in the form of a cone. The lower or adherent part of the test of Chely- osoma is coriaceous, with occasional slight traces of separation into plates. The test of Ascidia; is frequently covered with innumerable smaller animals and their spawn. Modiola; and Annelids burrow in it; Cirrhipeds, naked Molluscs, and Actinia; lodge upon it ; and Corallines cover it sometimes with a little forest ; a condition fully justify- ing the denomination of " microcosmus," be- stowed by Kedi * on a Mediterranean species. Occasionally, as in Ascidia conchilega and H fol- gida oculata, the animal works up extraneous matter, as gravel, fragmentary shells, &c., with the external surface of the test. It is by this shell or test that the animal fixes itself. In the sessile species, the tissue of the base or the side of the test interlaces with the stems of sea weeds and corallines, or closely adheres to the surface of another aseidian sac, or of a stone, a shell, a crab, or other object. In the peduncled forms this tunic is at one point pro- longed into a tubular process or stem, the dis- tal extremity of which is attached to marine bodies in the same manner as the base of the sessile tests. In Cystingia and Bipapillaria, however, this process or stalk appears to be less perfectly developed, and not to be al- * Opuscula varia Physiologica, 3 vols. 12mo. Iaigd. Batav. 1725.