TESTICLE (NORMAL ANATOMY). 976 favour of that of excess or irregular distri- bution of developemental power, for preferring to regard them as examples rather of single- ness tending to duplicity than of duplicity tending to singleness, are briefly these: that it is probable that the whole class of monsters by excess owe their origin to different de- grees of one common fault, and consequently that the explanation of their origin ought to be the same for all; that no kind of fusion can account for the production of super- numerary individual organs, the rest of the body being single; but that it is not impos- sible that excess of power in the ovum, which all admit can alone explain the lower degrees of duplicity, may, in proportionally higher degrees, perhaps by the formation of two primitive grooves, produce the more complete double monsters, or even two such separate individuals as are sometimes found within a single amnion. Bibliography. — On account of the length of this Article, and the great number of books upon the subject, I shall omit the Bibliography, and refer to the foot-notes as well as to the manuals of Meckel, Ro- kitansky, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, von Amnion, and my own, in which the bibliography is duly noticed. {W. Vrolik.) TESTICLE. — (Human Anatomy). Gr. opx's 5 Latin, Testis — Tcsticuhts; French, Tcslicule ; German, Hode ; Italian, Testicolo. The testicle is the gland by which the semen or spermatic fluid is secreted. Two in number, and contained within the scrotum, these organs are suspended at a variable and unequal distance from the abdominal rings, one testicle, generally the left, hanging a little lower than the other. This arrangement pre- vents collision between these organs when the thighs are suddenly approximated ; one tes- ticle slipping above the other, and thus elud- ing violence. In cases of transposition of the viscera and blood-vessels, it has been observed that the right testicle hangs lower than the left. The shape of the testicle of an adult is that of an oval with flattened sides. The organ has two extremities, an antero-superior, and a postero-inferior ; and two lateral surfaces. Its position in relation to the body is rather oblique, its long axis or antero-posterior di- ameter passing from above downwards and a little inwards. Its edges and sides are convex. Its upper extremity is rounded and capped by the epididymis, which rises above the body of the gland like the crest on a helmet. Ac- cording to Cruveilhier the testicle measures two inches in length, one inch in breadth, and eight lines in thickness. Sir Astley Cooper makes its long diameter two inches ; its trans- verse, an inch and a half; and its lateral, one inch and one eighth. I have found the mean dimensions of the testicle to be one inch and three quarters in length, one inch and a quarter across or in breadth, and one inch in thick- ness or from side to side. Meckel states its average weight to be four drachms, and Sir A. Cooper about an ounce. I have found the mean of these two estimates, viz. six drachms, to be the ordinary weight of the sound testicle of a healthy adult.* There are few organs subject to greater variations in size and weight than the testicle, even in men of the same age and constitution. The testicles also of the same individual rarely agree, the volume and weight of the left being, in general, greater than those of the right. I weighed the tes- ticles of six men, two of whom were killed by violence, and found the left gland heavier than the right in five; in neither of these instances, however, was the difference more than a drachm. The organ feels tense, compact, and slightly elastic. Its degree of consistence depends more on the tension of the tunica albuginea than on the proper substance of the gland. It is a good deal influenced by the quantity of seminal fluid contained in the tubular structure, and its state of activity or rest; the gland being tense and tumid when the organ is exercised and the tubuli are dis- tended, and soft and flaccid, when they are empty and the gland inactive. The parts composing the testicle may be described under four heads: — 1. The protective parts or tunics ; 2. The proper glandular or secreting structure ; 3. The excretory parts; 4. The vessels and nerves. 1. The Protective Parts or Tunics. — The Tunica Vaginalis. — This is a delicate serous membrane in the form of a shut sac, which consists of two portions ; an outer one, the parietal, which is free and loose ; and an inner, reflected, visceral or testicular portion, which closely invests the gland. The two portions are connected and continuous with each other. The outer one loosely invests the whole of the testicle except its posterior edge and inferior extremity, parts where the membrane becomes attached to the gland. It is connected with the testicle at about five lines from the lower extremity, and the junc- tion of the two portions is marked by a white and rather irregular line. The uncovered por- tion of the organ corresponds to the original attachment of the gubernaculum. On the inner side of the gland the membrane, after investing the lower part of the cord to a greater or less extent, is reflected to the epi- didymis just below its head, and to the pos- terior edge of the body of the testis, being there separated from the epididymis by the vas deferens and blood-vessels of the gland. On the outer side the membrane entirely covers and closely invests the epididymis, and forms a cul-de-sac, which isolates its mid- dle from the posterior border of the testicle, and in cases of hydrocele is often distended into a pouch. At the bottom of this sac the tunica vaginalis on the two sides comes into close contact, and sometimes there is a com- munication at this spot between the two. The smooth and polished surface of the shut sac thus formed by the tunica vaginalis is lubri- * This nearly accords with Krause's estimate (Midler's Archiv. 1837.) — who found the mean weight in five instances to be 354-4 grains, or five drachms, two scruples and fourteen grains.