TONGUE. 114-6 surmounted by two cerato-branchials (c b) of extreme length and tenuity, which, curving round the bird's occiput and vertex, are inserted by their cartilaginous extremities into a canal in the upper mandible, the orifice of which is placed to the inside of the right nos- tril ; the true hyoid arch is here entirely sup- pressed. And, indeed, birds' tongues are not attacked, they are slung; now, tongues are attacked by the osseous or fibrous continuity of the hyoid arch ; they are slung by the loose, unattached hypo- and cerato-branchials ; and accordingly as either of these methods of con- nection with the body is most consistent with the tongue's functions, so the one or the other of these systems of bones preponde- rates. In mammalia we find the hyoid apparatus recurring in its original completeness ; the three pieces, the stylo-hyal, epi-hyal, and cerato-hyal, composing the lateral arms of the arch in the fish, have each their representa- tive : the proportion of these parts, the com- pleteness of their ossification, and their anchy- losis, or separateness one from another, are liable to great variety, but either in the bony or ligamentous condition, fused or separate, the parts may be always traced. The cerato- hyals are represented by the lesser cornua ; the stylo-hyals have their homologue in the sty- loid process of the temporal ; and the epi- hyal, or intervening portion of bone, is a cylin- drical ossicle connecting the two : these are seen in their greatest completeness in the true carnivora. In man the epi-hyal is not normally ossified, but remains in a permanently liga- mentous condition, as the stylo-hyoid liga- ment. In some rare instances, this ligament has been ossified, and then the typical condi- tion of the hyoid arch is restored ; two or three of these instances have been recorded and figured by Geoffrey. In Jig. 760. E is shown the condition of the hyoid apparatus in the horse ; the stylo-hyals are seen to be very large, and approximate so nearly to the cerato- hyals, that the intervening bone, corresponding to the stylo-hyoid ligament in man, is seen to be a mere pisiform nodule (ep k) ; the hypo- branchials, or posterior cornua (It b), are of much the same shape as in man, while the basi-hyal projects forwards in a rostrum, to which is attached a glosso-hyal in two pieces (g k). In the ox the condition is much the same as in the horse, but the epi-hyals are longer, and the stylo-hyals shorter. I will now briefly advert to the general characters of the tongue itself, as met with in the four classes of Vertebrata,—Pisces, Rep- tilia, Aves, and Mammalia. Pisces. — The tongue in fish is very rudi- mentary ; in some it cannot be said to exist at all; in others it is a thin, fleshy investment, that barely covers the glosso-hyal bone pro- jecting into the mouth. In the herring {C/upea Harengus), it seems to be represented by a small muscle passing along the floor of the mouth to be inserted into the symphysis of the lower jaw, to depress and open which seems to be its function. In the cod it is round and thick, and seems to act as a sort of cushion. In the conger (Murcena Conge?-), in which it is very large, it seems to possess a hyo-glossus muscle, which, arising from the inferior portion of the hyoid arch, passes for- ward on either side of the tongue, which, by the action of one of these muscles, can thus have a lateral deflexion imparted to it. The structure of the investments of the tongue is not such as to imply the possession of taste in any degree, or any thing but a very low sensi- bility. In some species, as, for instance, in the sole (Solea vulgaris), the surface is regularly rugose, and might, at first sight, appear to be papillary, but no true papillae are to be met with in any fish's tongue; their only repre- sentatives are the calcigerous processes, or teeth, with which the tongues of some species are more or less densely set, and which assist in prehension and deglutition. Whether the vascular, erectile tissue, situated on the palate of the Cyprinoids, has any connection with the sense of taste, is doubtful — probably not. Reptilia. — The tongues of Reptilia possess a very wide diversity ; some are immovable, others the most remarkable for their protrac- ti 1 itv that we find in any organism; some are long, some so short as to have been described as wanting; some are broad and thick, some slender; some present the development of papillae in great perfection, some are quite smooth; the extremes of all these charac- ters we find in the reptiles, and their oppo- site conditions in those the most closely allied. For example, among the Saurians, the tongue of the crocodile is so immovable, as to have been described by Aristotle as want- ing; while the chameleon presents us with the most complete protractility of the organ that the animal kingdom furnishes. I think the teleologists have not a greater strong hold than that furnished them by the tongues of reptilia. Almost the only thing in common that can be assigned to them is this, that pre- hension is their principal function, and that the sense of taste is very subordinate. a. Batrachia.—All the Batrachia, in their perfect state, feed on living prey*, and in many of them the arrangement of the tongue, to enable them to secure it, is remarkably curious. In the frog, which presents a good example, we see the tongue reversed, as it were, the base or attached end being in front, the apex or free extremity behind : its mus- cular constitution explains this arrangement. It consists essentially of two muscles, a genio- glossus and hyo-glossus, invested by the mucous membrane. The genio-glossus arises from the inferior maxillary symphysis, and, directed backwards towards the throat, spreads out, and, together with its fellow, constitutes the upper of the two muscular strata. The hyoglossi arise from the lower surface of the posterior hyoid cornua, are directed forwards * In speaking of the frog Roesel says, " Pradam vix venatur eamdem potius prsestolans, nec ullimi unquam devorabit insectum motu destitutum." Hist. Eanar., p. 16.