1173 TOUCH. 4 F 3 cular sense" may be made good by the visual; thus, the patient who cannot walk, because he cannot feel either the contact of his foot with the ground, or the muscular effort he is mak- ing, can do so if lie looks at his limbs ; and the woman who cannot feel the pressure of her child upon her arms, can yet sustain it as long as she keeps her eyes fixed upon it, but no longer, — the muscles ceasing to contract, and the limb dropping powerless, the moment that the eyes are withdrawn from it. There are two groups of muscular actions, however, which, although as voluntary in their character as the foregoing, are yet habitually guided by other sensations than those derived from the muscles themselves. These are, the move- ments of the eyeball, and those of the vocal apparatus. The former are directed (as Dr. Alison has well shown *) by the visual sense, by which the action of the muscles is guided and controlled in the same manner as that of other muscles is directed by their own " mus- cular sense ;" and hence it happens that, when we close our eyes, we cannot move them in any required direction, without an effort that strongly calls forth the muscular sense, by which the action is then guided. In persons who have become blind after having once enjoyed sight, an association is formed by habit between the muscular sense and the con- tractile action, that enables the former to serve as the guide after the loss of the visual sense ; but in those who are born perfectly blind, or who have become so in early infancy, this association is never formed, and the eyes of such persons exhibit a continued indefinite movement, and cannot by any amount of effort be steadily fixed in one spot, or be turned in any definite direction. A very small amount of the visual sense, however, such as serves merely to indicate the direction of light, is sufficient for the government of the move- ments of the eye-ball. In the production of vocal sounds, again, that nice adjustment of the muscles of the larynx, which is requisite to give forth deter- minate tones, is ordinarily directed by the auditory sense; being learned in the first instance under the guidance of the sounds actually produced ; but being subsequently effected voluntarily, in accordance with the mental conception (a sort of inward sensa- tion) of the tone to be uttered, which concep- tion cannot be formed, unless the sense of hearing has previously brought similar tones to the mind. Hence it is that persons who are born deaf, are also dumb. They may have no malformation of the organs of speech ; but they are incapable of uttering distinct vocal sounds or musical tones, because they have not the guiding conception, or recalled sensation, of the nature of these. By long training, however, and by imitative efforts directed by the muscular sense of the larynx itself, some persons thus circumstanced have acquired the power of speech ; but the want * Anatomical and Physiological Inferences from the Study of the Nerves of the Orbit, in Trans, of Roy. Soc. Edinb., vol. xv. of a sufficiently definite control over the vocal muscles is always very evident in their use of the organ. It is very rarely that a person who has once enjoyed the sense of hearing, afterwards becomes so completely deaf, as to lose all auditory control over his vocal organs. An example of this kind, however, has been made known to the public by a well known author, as having occurred in himself; and the record of his experiences* contains many points of much interest. The deafness was the result of an accident occurring in child- hood, which left him for some time in a state of extreme debility; and when he made the attempt to speak, it was with considerable pain in the vocal organs. This pain probably- resulted from the unaccustomed effort which it was necessary to make, when the usual guidance was wanting; being analogous to the uneasiness which we experience when we attempt to move our eyes with the lids closed. His voice at that time is described as being very similar to that of a person born deaf and dumb, but who has been taught to speak. With the uneasiness in the use of the vocal organs was associated an extreme mental in- disposition to their employment; and thus, for some years, the voice was very little ex- ercised. Circumstances afterwards forced it, however, into constant employment; and great improvement has subsequently taken place in the power of vocalisation, evidently by atten- tion to the indications of the muscular sense. It is a curious circumstance, fully confirming this view, that the words which had been in use previously to the supervention of the deafness, are still pronounced (such of them, at least, as are kept in employment) as they were in childhood ; the muscular movements concerned in their articulation being still guided by the original auditory conception, in spite of the knowledge derived from the in- formation of others, that their pronunciation is erroneous. On the other hand, all the words subsequently learned are pronounced according to their spelling; the acquired as- sociations between the muscular sensations and the written signs being in this case the obvious guide. The perception of "effort" which we derive through the impressions made on the muscular sense, is one which, as we shall presently see, is of immense value, in com- bination with simple tactile sensation, in informing us of the sensible properties of external objects. In its simplest exercise, however, it enables us to appreciate the degree of muscular force which is being exerted ; and excites in our minds our most definite idea of power. It is true that we might, by the ex-ercise of our other senses, have arrived at the conception of a tendency in bodies to attract one another, or to com- municate motion one to another ; but the notion of the force with which they do so is entirely founded, directly or indirectly, upon * See the " Lost Senses," by Dr. Kitto; vol. i. chapters 2 and 3.