TASTE. 860 susceptible than the lingual to gustative im- pressions, far less readily excites manifesta- tions of pain when subjected to mechanical irritation. Hence, it would seem not im- probable, that there may be in each a mixture of the fibres which minister to the sense of taste with those of tactile sensibility; and that the former may be so far special in their endowments, as to be capable of receiving only the peculiar impressions made by sapid bodies, to which the latter may be insensible. Such a view would seem to be supported by the cases of Vogt and Noble just referred to ; and it is in harmony with the views to which we are led from the consideration of the diversities manifested between the sense of heat and cold and that of simple contact. [See Touch.] Gustative Papilla;.—The tongue is copiously furnished with a papillary structure, bearing a close resemblance to that of the skin, but in many respects more complicated. Re- ferring to the article Tongue for a more par- ticular anatomical description of these papillae, we have now to inquire into their connexion with the sense of taste. According to the recent investigations of Messrs. Todd and Bowman, the lingual papilla? are either simple or compound ; the former, which do not differ from those of the cutaneous surface in any other obvious character than the nature of their epithelial investment, are scattered over the whole surface of the tongue, in parts where the others do not exist, but they also par- ticipate in the formation of the compound papillae ; the latter are of three kinds, the cir- cumvallate or calyciform, the fungiform, and the conical.—The civcumvaUatc papillae, which are only eight or ten in number, and are restricted to a small space at the base of the tongue, consist merely of groups of simple papilla;, arranged in a peculiar manner, and separated from those of the adjacent mucous membrane by a circular fissure. Into these simple papillae it has not yet been found possible to trace any distinct nerve-fibres, though there can be little doubt that it is penetrated by at least the essential part of them.—The fungiform papillae are scattered singly over the surface, chiefly about the sides and apex, and but very sparingly in the middle of the dorsal region, though they are abundant in front of the cir- cumvallate papillae. These are composed^ of aggregations of simple papillae, which rise, however, considerably above the surface, and are covered with an epithelium so thin that they are distinguished by their blood-red colour. Fasciculi of nerve-tubes may be dis- tinctly traced into them ; but of the nature of their termination it would be unwise to give a positive statement. Some of the ap- pearances presented by them favour the idea that they form loops at their peripheral ex- tremities ; whilst, in other instances, the tu- bular portion of the fibre, with the white substance of Schwann, seems to terminate somewhat abruptly, whilst the central axis is continued onwards into the substance of the enveloping t'ssue, in which it loses itself. —The conical or filiform, which are the most numerous of the compound papillae, are dif- fused over the whole surface of the tongue, though most largely and numerously de- veloped in its central part. They consist of clusters of simple papillae of a peculiarly elongated form, containing tubular nerve- fibres, which may frequently be seen to form distinct loops in their interior; but their chief peculiarity consists in their epithelial invest- ment, which forms about two-thirds of their length, and gives to them their whitish tint. This investment consists of a tuft of long pointed processes, some of which present a near approach in their dense texture to hair ; whilst others may be regarded as soft or un- condensed hairs. These processes are sent off from the sides and summits of the secondary papillae, and are usually inclined backwards, lying buried in the recesses of the mouth. The foregoing description applies, however, only to the conical papillae of the human tongue ; and there is a considerable diversity in their structure in other animals. Thus, in the Ruminants, each conical papilla is ter- minated by a long, slender, flexible, horny filament, curving backwards ; and in the Fe- lines some of them are furnished with a brush- like tuft of slender horny filaments, like those of man*, whilst others are encased by firm horny sheaths, which are prolonged backwards as stiff spines. It is to this arrangement that the peculiar roughness of the tongue of the cat is clue ; the organ being thus enabled to act as a flexible rasp, whereby the bones which they lick may be effectually cleaned of the smallest particles of flesh that may adhere to them ; and a single stroke of the tongue of a lion is said to be capable of abrading the whole thickness of the human skin. After what lias been already said of the conditions essential to the exercise of the sense of taste, there is no occasion to do more than point out the evident fact, that, if some of the papillae be covered with an epi- thelial investment so dense as to resemble horn, and offering an effectual barrier to the penetration of fluids, these cannot be sup- posed to have much participation in the sense, if they possess any. It is obvious that in the Felines the function of the spiny pa- pillae must be purely mechanical; and it seems probable that the brush-like papillae which lie among them, in common with those of man, possess simple tactile sensibility, serving to direct those muscular actions of the organ, which so remarkably adapt it to deal with minute particles of food. On the other hand, the thinness of the epithelial investment on the simple papillae which are scattered over the surface of the tongue, and which form the circumvallate and fungiform papillae by their aggregation, indicates their special adaptation to receive gustative impressions ; and this must be admitted to be more especially the case with the fungiform papillae, which often * By Cuvier these filaments are supposed to lie the ultimate fasciculi of the fibres of the gustative nerve; but this is certainly an error.