828 SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. to be one drachm : according to Krause * it is from 80—120 grains; according to Huschkef from 80—180 grains. The anatomist last named found that its specific weight in the newly-born infant was 1*0333 ; but Krause states the supra-renal capsules of the adult to be of the somewhat lower specific gravity of 1-0163. The two supra-renal capsules of the same individual are generally of different size. Usually the right is of somewhat lesser height, but greater breadth, than the left, which has the contrary diameter the larger. The so-called accessory supra-renal capsules are often found in man. They are small round corpuscles, which, in various numbers, are attached loosely to the inner border of the supra-renal gland, or are sometimes im- bedded in an excavation on its surface. The supra-renal capsules of the Mammalia essentially correspond with this description.\ They are always situated on the upper part of the kidneys ; sometimes towards the inner part, sometimes on the upper part of their border, as in man. Sometimes they are not so closely attached to the urinary organs as in man, but are somewhat more removed from them. Thus, for instance, are arranged the supra-renal capsules of the Elephant and Seal. But, in opposition to this constancy of situation of these organs, we find very considerable differences in respect of their size and form. The supra-renal capsules of Monkeys closely approach the shape seen in the human sub- ject ; but, not unfrequently, their size seems somewhat more considerable. Among the Carnwora they are, in the Dog, of an elongated cylindrical form, sometimes thicker at the margin than in the middle, and of a dense solid texture. So also in the Cat, in whom they are roundish, and somewhat flat- tened. Amongst Insectivora they have in the Mole (Talpa europcett) the form of a three- sided pyramid. In the Seal they appear very small, and Cuvier found that their size was, to that of the kidneys, as I —150. In this latter animal the whole surface of the supra-renal capsules is divided into a multitude of lobules, or acini. Amongst all the Mammalia, these blood-glands are largest in the Rodentia, their ratio to the kidneys being as 1 to 4 and 5 : this is the case, to wit, in Ccelogenys Paca, and in the Guinea-pig (Cavia cobaki). They are roundish, and somewhat flattened, in the Rabbit and the Dipus. The supra-renal cap- sules of the Mouse, the Rat, and the Myoxus Glis, have a shorter form ; while, on the other hand, in Hysrrix they become more cylindrical. * Loc. cit. \ Huschke, Lehre von der Eingeweiden unci Sin- hesorgaaen des menschlichen Korpers. Leipzig, 1844, S. 357. % Concerning the differences of form of the supra- renal capsules may be consulted the well-known text-books on comparative anatomy of Cuvier and Meckel ; and, especially, Nagel in Mailer's Archiv for 1836, S. 365., and Ecker, Die feinere Bau der Nebennieren, Braunschweig, 1846. Amongst the Pachydermata they have, in the Elephant, the form of an elongated cone, and their base is divided into two lobes, and turned backwards. In the Pig, their form is about midway between the cylindrical and the pris- matic. Besides this, the supra-renal capsules of this animal possess a considerable size. In the Horse they are flattened and triangular, approaching the human form. Among the Ruminantia they are, in the Rein-deer, of an oval form, which approximates to the sphe- rical. They are elongated in the Sheep. In the Ox, their shape in some degree resembles that of the kidney. Here they are almost crescentic, not unlike a horse-shoe, and their upper extremity is three-sided. Finally, the sup -a-renal capsules of Cetaceans are, like those of the Seal, exceedingly small, and broken up into a number of small lobes. We find a similar correspondence in the class of Birds. Their supra-renal capsules are generally small in proportion to the size of the body j sometimes spherical, sometimes oval; and, in general, divided into lobules. They lie at the inner extremity of the anterior part of the kidnej, often close to the inferior vena cava ; and they are covered by the tes- ticles, or ovaries. In the ReptUia these organs are much less known, since only isolated (and not unfre- quently contradictory) observations have been made respecting them. Hitherto they have not been found among the Derotremate, Pe- rennibranchiate, and Cajcilian orders of this class. The supra-renal capsules of the Saurians have been very eagerly examined, and most exactly in the genus Lacerta. In these ani- mals Nagel found them along the upper ex- tremity of the vas deferens, in the form of two long, small, lobulated bodies. Nagel's obser- vations have been recently confirmed, and added to, by Ecker. The supra-renal cap- sules, possessing the form stated by Nagel, have a length of \\ lines, with a breadth of 1^,. They lie closely on the vena renalis re- vehens, or on the vena cava ascendens, which is constituted by the two efferent renal veins. Since the right supra-renal capsule is usually of somewhat larger size, it is wont to lie on the vena cava itself; while the left organ is placed upon the vena renalis revehens. In the male lizard the supra-renal capsules are placed between the vein and the vas deferens ; in the female they are situated between that vessel and the ovary. Numerous blood-ves- sels convey the blood from it into the corre- sponding veins. The blind worm (Anguis fragilis) also possesses long, small, supra-renal capsules ; and so, probably, do the Crocodilus Lucius and Ameiva teguixin. Nevertheless, both the latter animals are at present insuffi- ciently examined. The supra-renal capsules of the Ophidia ex- hibit a similar condition, the more exact knowledge of which we especially owe to Retzius. They form two long and small bodies, and in the Python binistatus they at- tain a length of 8 lines. The supra-renal