THYMUS GLAND. 1099 cess we here find occurring the superadditidn of a thymus gland, — its first appearance in the ascending scale of organization." Among the PerennibrancMata it is very interesting to observe, that the gland is gradually suppressed in proportion as the respiration becomes more completely aquatic, a thymus is found in the Menopoma, Amphiuma, Axolotl, and Meno- branchus, but not in the Siren or Proteus ; its position is rather peculiar, it lies in the neck, on each side, along the lateral aspect of the spine, just behind that prolongation of mucous membrane which unites the branchial cavity to the pharynx. Pisces-—In fishes Mr. Simon has been unable to discover any trace of a thymus, after search- ing, carefully, in more than twenty genera ; this result accords well with the absence of the gland in the fish-like batrachian larva, and with its disappearance in the lowest Perenni- branchiata. The following are the conclusions which the eminent physiologist, so often referred to, deduces from a survey of his detailed and elaborate investigation. (1.) The presence of the thymus gland is co-extensive with pul- monary respiration. (2.) Its shape and po- sition are variable and unimportant. (3.) Its size and duration are, generally speaking, in proportion to the habitual or periodical inac- tivity of the animal. (4.) Where it remains as a persistent organ, it is usually but one of several means for the accumulation of nutri- tive material ; its continuance, under such circumstances is generally accompanied — though in some instances superseded — by a peculiar accessory contrivance, the fat body. Physiology. — The time is now past when an eminent physiologist could declare of the organs usually known as glands without ducts, "that in regard of their intimate structure and physiological meaning, they are all equally anil utterly unknown to us." With respect to their structure, it may, I think, be said, that they are as well understood, or perhaps even better than the true glands, being in fact less complex, and their constituent parts less in- dependent. Their physiological meaning, it must be confessed, is still obscure ; yet even on this dark part of the demesne of our science light is beginning to break, which we may fairly hope will continue to brighten. The results afforded by examination of the thymus in the lower animals seem certainly to connect the gland most closely with pulmo- nary organs of respiration, and it would, therefore, seem a natural conclusion, that it subserves some purpose which has to do with the aeration of the blood. It is also found that the size of the gland may vary in a short space of time very considerably, that is, that its contents are capable of being absorbed very quickly, as proved by the fact mentioned by Mr. Gulliver, that in over-driven lambs, the thymus will soon shrink remarkably, anil be nearly drained of its contents, but will be- come as quickly distended again during rest and plentiful nourishment. This seems to imply that the material necessary for the supply of the respiratory process is furnished by the thymus, which thus, in Mr. Simon's words " fulfils its use as a sinking-fund in the service of respiration." The persistence of the gland, moreover, is observed to vary considerably according to the muscular ac- tivity of the animal, thus it disappears quickly in young oxen put to the plough, it endures longer in animals of quiet habits than in the restless and energetic beasts of prey, and vanishes at a very early period in the class of birds, while it persists long in that of reptiles. From this it seems to follow, that the use fulfilled by the gland in the service of res- piration is more or less superseded when the muscular system is called into a high state of activity, i.e. when there is considerable waste of tissue yielding fuel for respiration. In the hibernating animal, where the gland, pre- parative to the winter sleep, is transformed into a mass of fat, its application to the de- mands of the respirtory process seems scarcely doubtful, as the chemical nature of the contents of its cavities is then peculiarly appropriate to neutaralise theoxydising agency of the air. Probable, however, as these views may ap- pear, they have been confronted by the fol- lowing weighty objections. An able physio- logist, in the Brit, and Foreign Med. Re- view, observes, that the condition of young, rapidly growing animals, and that of hiber- nating animals, are rather opposite than pa- rellel, that whereas in the latter, the waste of the tissues is reduced to a minimum, in the former it is certainly greater than in the adult, so that there can be no deficiency of effete material to feed the respiratory furnace. The demand in the young creature is for plastic materials, out of which the rapidly growing and rapidly changing structures may be built up and renewed. " On the other hand, in the hibernating animals all the nutritive actions are at zero, and the respiration for a long period is entirely dependent on the stores of fatty matter which have previously been set apart from the food. The demand is here for combustible materials." The writer then observes, that the che- mical nature of the contents of the thymus correspond so exactly at the two periods of active growth and hibernation to the kind of demand which must then exist in the system, that he conceives it more probable that the use of the gland at these times is different ; in the one slowly yielding up its hydro-car- bonous contents to supply fuel to the respi- ratory process, in the other performing the principal part in elaborating, by means of its myriad nuclei, fibrine from albumen, the plastic from the non-plastic element. " As the de- mand for plastic material becomes less ener- getic the thymus diminishes in size and dis- appears, the production of plastic matter within the absorbent and sanguiferous vessels being then sufficient for the wants of the sys- tem. Or if the organ remains," its struc- ture " and the nature of its function changes,