1298 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. styloid process, arising from the non-anchy- losis of the stylo-hyal bone. Fig. 800. Front, side, and basal views of the shill of the Trog- lodytes gorilla. {After Owen.) " 10. The larger post-glenoid process, and the longer auditory process (tympanic bone), with their relative position, one behind, but not below, the other. "11. The position of the stronger zygo- mata opposite the middle third of the basis cranii. " 12. The prominent supra-orbital ridge. " 13. The longer nasal bones, anchylosed together, and flattened at their lower half. " 14. The greater proportional size, and greater prominence of the upper and lower jaws. " 15. The longer osseous palate, and the median emargination of its posterior border. " 16. The parallelism of the alveoli of the molars and canine of one side, with those of the other. " 17. The diastema, or vacant place, in front of the socket of the canine in the upper jaw, and behind that socket in the lower jaw. " 18. The larger and more produced pre- maxillaries, the persistence of more or less of their sutures, showing the intervention of their upper extremities between the nasal and maxillary bones. " 19. The minor extent of connection of the lachrymal with the 'pars plana' of the aethmoid, or their separation by the junction of the orbital plate of the maxillary with that of the frontal behind the lachrymal. " 20. The depth of the olfactory fossa, and the absence or rudimental state of the crista galli. " 21. The squamosal, lambdoidal, alisphe- noidal and pterygoid air-cells. " 22. The more prominent cusps of the molar teeth. " 23. The larger relative size, and more complex grinding surface of the last molar tooth in both jaws. " 24. The larger relative size of the pre- molars, especially of the first. " 25. The more complex implantation of the premolars by three roots, two external and one internal. " 26. The much larger and longer canines. " 27. The sexual distinction in the develop- ment of these teeth. " 28. The more sloping position of the crowns of the incisors. " 29. The broader and higher ascending ramus of the lower jaw. " 30. The total absence of the prominence of the symphysis forming the chin. " In the form of the premaxillaries, and the earlier obliteration of their sutures," Prof. Owen continues, " the smaller chimpanzee more nearly resembles man than the great gorilla does; it seems also to deviate less through the minor development of the canine teeth, and of the parietal and sagittal crests ; but it has been shown, in the comparison of the skulls of Troglodytes gorilla and T. niger, that the latter departs in more numerous and important particulars further from the human type." _ Now, of the foregoing characters, some of those which constitute the most striking fea- tures in the cranium of the Chimpanzee, are those which must be admitted from analogy to be liable to variation under the influence