1087 THORAX. to the stream is the same whether the air passes into or out of the lungs, therefore the tra- cheal sounds are equally heard in expiration and in inspiration. But not so in the lungs ; here, as the stream of air proceeds it is subdivided, and with every subdivision the friction is increased; so that with every advance of the stream into the substance of the lung the sound is increased, and becom- ing more and more buried in the substance of the lung is heard as in a continual murmur. In expiration the very contrary happens. The friction is as quickly diminished, until the substance of the lung entirely masks what remains. In the larger vessels when the volume of the returning air becomes great, and the diameter of the tube more uniform, the friction is the same whichever way the air passes, and here tracheal and bronchial ex- piration are audible, during inspiration as well as expiration. If we take a sheep's lung and innate it, we hear the inspiratory murmur; let go the air and we do not hear it ; but contract part of the lung, say with the edge of a paper knife, and you hear the mur- I. In its Intensity II. In its Rhythm III. In its Character mur during the lung's collapsing, showing that by increasing the friction you produce the expiratory murmur. When any disease thickens or diminishes the diameter of the air tubes, or when one part of the lung is obliterated and another part has to do double work, then the friction is increased, and thus expiratory murmur is a true sign of some change in the minute air tubes of the lungs. Sometimes the breathing murmur is so gentle and the thickness of the muscles so great that we have even in health known the inspiratory murmur quite inaudible. In organic change of the lung these sounds become changed in their intensity, rhythm, and character. The cause of the change of sound is yet involved in much obscurity ; hence some persons have been said to have had tubercular lungs, when such has not been the case; or even extensive cavities, &c, yet time has shown that there never had been cavities. All the morbid true sounds yet require to be verified as to their cause. As we have natural changes in the character of breathing, so are there changes in the sounds of breathing, as follows : — Frequency 2. Duration f Strong or exaggerated. J Feeble. [ Absent or suppressed, f Quick. \ Slow. Jerking or interrupted, f Long. ■I Short. | Expiration prolonged, f Harsh. J Bronchial or tubular. J Cavernous. 1_ Amphoric. When there is fluid or disorganisation in the substance of the lung, there are certain crack- lings, crepitations, and gurglings, causing certain other sounds not included in the above list. Unfortunately authors differ in the ap- plication of the names for these sounds. They may be all classed under two heads, the dry and the moist, whether the tubes be large or small in which the sounds are pro- duced. For the Bibliography see that of art. " Resfiration," p. 366. (J. Hutchinson.) THYMUS GLAND.—(French,Le thymus; Italian, Timo; German, Die Britstdruse; Lat., Thymus; Greek, Ovfioc.)—It is proposed in this article to adopt the following arrange- ment : First, to treat of the gland as it exists in the human subject, comprehending its ordi- nary and structural anatomy, and its develop- ment. Secondly, to give a sketch of the comparative anatomical history of the organ. Thirdly, to treat of its physiology. Fourthly, to mention what has been observed of morbid changes occurring in it. Human Anatomy.— Sir A. Cooper's de- scription of the gland in the human subject is as follows: — "This gland is formed of a tho- racic and cervical portion on each side. The former is situated in the anterior mediastinum, and the latter is placed in the neck, just above the first bone of the sternum, and behind the sterno-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei muscles." " Between two and three months of foetal life, as will be seen in the plate (Jig. 717.), it is so Fig. 717. 77i<? thymus, heart, larynx, &'c, o f the human foetus at rather more than two months. (After Sir A. Cooper.) small as to be but just perceptible. At three months (Jig. 718.) its increase is in propor- tion to the relative magnitude of the foetus, and thus it continues to grow gradually and equally ( fig. 719.) to the seventh month, w hen it en- larges out of proportion to its former growth. At eiglit months it is large, but at the ninth