1158 TONGUE. fluid, and not inspissated saliva. They are situated in the cellular tissue immediately under the mucous membrane, where they sometimes grow to an enormous size. Mr. Earle has described curious little vesicular tumours, which he found in the tongue of a boy : — " Clusters of very minute semitrans- parent vesicles pervaded the whole thickness of the tongue, occupying nearly one-half, and projected considerably both above and below that organ. The slightest injury caused the.se to bleed profusely, and in some places the clusters were separated by deep clefts, which discharged a fetid, irritating sanies." (Medico- Chirur. Trans., vol. xii. pt. ii.) The tongue was quite restored by the use of internal medicine. A mulberry-like tumour has been described by Mr. Probart. It formed on the tip of the tongue of a boy four years of age. It was of a peculiar granulated appearance, resembling a half-ripe mulberry, feeling hard and free from pain. It grew gradually: at two months it was the size of a nutmeg; but after that, in five weeks, it rapidly increased till it was of the bigness of a hen's egg, protruding nearly two inches beyond the lips, which were sepa- rated widely by it, preventing the little patient taking any thing but spoon meat, and that with difficulty. It was highly vascular, and bled profusely from innumerable vessels, w hich nothing but the cautery would arrest, when amputated. There was no return of the disease. Polypus-like tumours have been met with on the tongue, consisting of a fleshy mass, like the rest of the organ, attached to it by a pedicle, Louis mentions one of these about the size of a nutmeg, which he removed from the tongue of a young man eighteen years of age: it was situated on the middle of the dorsum of the tongue. A more remarkable example is described by Dr. Huie. The case was that of an old maiden lady, in whom a tumour formed, about three months after a catarrh and inflammation of the fauces, upon the root of the tongue, and gradually increased for twelve months, when " the smooth rounded form of the tumour conveyed, at first sight, the idea that it was of an encysted kind; but, upon examination with the finger, it was found to be as hard and unyielding as the substance of the tongue itself, and evi- dently of the nature of polypus." (Edinb. Med.-Chlrur. Trans., vol. iii. p. 72.) It filled nearly the whole pharynx, and moved with the tongue, to which it was attached by a pedicle. Ligature was subsequently applied, by which it was removed. " The tumour, which is in the Museum of the lloyal College of Surgeons (of Edinburgh), was of an oval form, weighed exactly an ounce, and mea- sured five inches in its long, and four in its short, circumference. It was broadest op- posite the insertion of the pedicle, which entered at the distance of an inch from the upper part of the tumour. A longitudinal incision, which has been made into it, displays a firm cartilaginous nucleus, as large as a chestnut, surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous structure, forming the rest of the tumour." (Loc. eit., p. 76.) I strongly suspect that all these pedunculated tumoiu's of the tongue are hypertrophied fungiform or circumvallate papillae. Hypertrophy and prolapsus of the tongue.— This is a singular affection, which usually commences in infancy, and is sometimes con- genital. It generally begins and progresses slowly by an enlargement of the organ within the mouth; it afterwards projects perma- nently between the lips, and then advances more rapidly, and the tongue, which was before of normal, though hypertrophied, struc- ture, becomes parched and fissured on the upper surface, and ulcerated beneath. Some- times the amount of tongue that is protruded is enormous. The os hyoides and larynx are drawn up, whilst the jaw is depressed, and the incisors are pushed out in a horizontal direction. Dr. Wells, of Columbia, has given a good case, of which the following is a condensed description. The patient was a little girl, six years old, with an enormous enlargement of the tongue; otherwise she was in good health, and a fine robust girl. The following are the dimensions and state of the tongue at the time: — length, as it remained at rest and hung down over the chin, from the superior incisors to the apex, two and a half inches; circumference just in front of the lips, six inches ; breadth, from one angle of the mouth to the other, a little more than two inches. It had undergone a very considerable change in structure, was much more dense than na- tural, and not subject to change in its dimen- sions by the action of its own muscles, or, if at all, very slightly so. Its motions other- wise were sufficiently free: upper surface smooth ; inferior covered with the cicatrices of old ulcers, several of which, where the tongue rested upon the alveolar processes of the lower jaw, were but imperfectly healed ; colour darker than natural. Within the mouth the tongue had undergone no apparent change except a moderate increase in width and thickness. The front teeth had been dis- placed from the lower jaw by the long-con- tinued pressure of the tongue. The lower lip was folded downwards. The anterior por- tion of the superior maxillary bone had under- gone a slight curve upwards ; the inferior a much greater curve downwards; so that when the back teeth came in contact, the front were an inch asunder, or, rather, the space between the upper teeth and the corresponding alveolar processes below was something more than an inch. This condition of tongue commenced by an attack of glossitis in infancy. A portion of the organ was removed by ligature, and she completely recovered. Mr. Crosse mentions a girl of six years old, in whom the tongue was prolapsed three or four inches ; and this was completely reduced by pressure and leeching. Mr. Liston has described an instance in which the tongue projected three or four