1090 rope, on which the lobes and lobuli are set somewhat like the beads on the string of a necklace (fig. 721.). By injecting also the glandular cavities with some fluid, as alcohol, capable of hardening the tissue, or with co- loured gelatine, which sets and permanently distends them, he demonstrated the existence of a central cavity or reservoir, communicating with the glandular cavities by orifices leading into pouches situated at the roots of the lobes (fig. 722.). The central cavity forms a Fig. 122. THYMUS GLAND. Section of thymus showing the reservoir, cells, and pouches. (After Sir A. Cooper.) general communication between the different lobes ; it does not maintain a straight course, but passes in a somewhat spiral manner, be- ginning from the lower part of the thoracic portion, and extending even into the extremity of the cervical part of the gland : its size varies in different parts, being largest near the centre of the thoracic, and least at the communication of the thoracic with the cervical, part of the gland. Sir A. Cooper conceived the reservoirs to be lined by a very vascular mucous mem- brane of somewhat villous character, but this does not appear in reality to exist. Such were the principal results obtained by a most skilful and eminent anatomist, with all the appliances and aids that his science could at that day supply; they were truly valuable facts, but not so " luciferous," not so exhibit- ant of physiological meaning, as those ob- tained by a subsequent inquirer, who, availing himself of the more penetrating ken of the modern achromatic lens, and seeking rather to learn from the instructive examples which Nature herself sets forth, than from results of his own deviling and producing, has both confirmed the conclusions drawn from a less refined scrutiny, and invested them with a more correct bearing and interpretation. I refer, of course, to the admirable researches of Mr. Simon, which I now proceed to detail, respecting the structure of the thymus, as illustrated by its developement. Development. — The first trace of the or- gan which has been discovered is in the form of an exceedingly delicate tube, lying along the carotid vessels in the neck, not straight, but wavy at one part, and termi- nating by closed extremities at both ends (fig. 723.). Its wall is formed by a transpa- Fis. 723. Primary tube. (After Simon.') rent homogeneous tunic, marked at regu- lar intervals with elongated thickenings (the remnants probably of the nuclei of primor- dial cells), and enclosing granular matter, but no distinct corpuscles. There seems some probability that this tubular form, though found to prevail in very early embryos, may not be the really primitive one, but that a linear series of cells is first developed, which are afterwards blended together by fusion, so as to constitute a tube (see fig.724.); this opi- Fig. 724. --••0.. Supposed origin of primary tube. (After Simon.) nion however, I suspect, will not be confirmed; the limitary membrane of glandular and other structures has generally appeared to me to be produced quite independently of cells, so far, at least, as that it should be regarded identical with their coalesced envelopes. In the next stage of developement, the homogenous wall of the tube begins to bulge, and swell out into vesicular cavities, which at first have wide communications with the central canal or tube, and are quite sessile, but afterwards become attached by short and rather narrow