1484 VOICE. larynx falls, and the vocal tube is lengthened, although during these changes the tones become more acute. As soon as this has taken place, the larynx again rises as the voice becomes more acute. In a mezzo-soprano voice en- dowed with a double falsetto, or third register consisting of several tones of each register, with the power of producing tones of the same pitch either of the ordinary or the fal- setto quality, we observed that the larynx fell at the commencement of each register, and that the thyro-arytenoid ligaments were twice relaxed, but in a much smaller degree. These observations have since been verified by many musical persons. In order to explain the phenomena as con- nected with the production of falsetto tones, we must remember that at the highest note of the primary register the crico-tby roid mus- cles are contracted as much as possible in closing the crico-thyroid chink, and therefore that no further tension of the vocal cords can take place. In this state of things, the thyro- arytenoid muscles are at their maximum of elongation, and their transverse section is a minimum; consequently neither can a higher note be produced by an extension of the liga- ments, nor are these muscles in a condition to affect the dimensions of the glottis; hence the necessity of some alteration in the state of the larynx in order to effect the scale of the fal- setto, which is an octave above the ordinary register, and to prevent the mere repetition of the same series of sounds. This alteration might be produced in two ways ; one of these is a partial closing of the aperture of the glottis caused by the action of the thyro-arvtenoid muscles when they have returned to their ordinary condition, and are in a favourable state to produce that effect under the influence of the laryngeal nerves. For, let us suppose the larynx to be in the same state as at the commencement of the primary register, except that the chink of the glottis is half closed ; the consequence will be that as only half the length of the ligaments can be made to vibrate, the octave of the lowest note in that register will result from the same tension which pro- duced that note, and this will manifestly be repeated in consecutive notes of the range of the falsetto. This range is limited in general to a few notes, owing probably to the chink being soon completely closed by the stretching of the vocal cords. It is also owing to this partial closing of the glottis that a much less quantity of air is required for the falsetto than for the ordinary scale, which is proved by our being able to sustain a given note in the fal- setto to a much longer time than we can sus- tain the corresponding note in the primary register. The partial closing of the glottis was observed by Majendie in his experiments on the dog, and by Mayo in the human subject. Another explanation was suggested by Gott- fried Weber, namely, that the falsetto range is caused by a nodal division of the vocal cords producing harmonics of the fundamental notes, by which means the glottis acquires the same pitch as if it were half closed. If wc consider the glottis as a reed, it is evident that since the number of vibrations must in this case be the same for the same note as when we sup- pose the ligaments to obey the laws of cords, the axis of vibration or the breadth of the liga- ment must be duly diminished, which may be brought about by the rotation of the thyro- arytenoid muscle on its axis. Having thus considered how the glottis may act in the falsetto range, let us now examine in what way the vocal tube contributes to its formation. We have seen that this tube gra- dually shortens during the ascent of the pri- mary register, suddenly falls to its original length when the falsetto commences, and again diminishes during the secondary register. Now it appears from Savart's experiments that, notwithstanding the shortness of this tube, the wave length of a column of air vibrating within it is the same as that of a rigid pipe of much greater length, and we have therefore strong grounds for believing that the notes of the primary register are reinforced in con- sequence of the vibrations of the glottis being always in unison with the fundamental pitch of the walls of the tube ; hence in the falsetto, when the vocal apparatus has resumed its original condition, there will be less reinforce" ment of the sound, since the parietes of the vocal pipe are no longer in unison with the glottis, but give its grave octaves. We have found, by numerous experiments, that a flex- ible disc will vibrate to almost any pitch, but will reinforce the sound in a trifling degree only, unless the pitch be in unison with its fundamental note ; and on the same principle we may suppose the intensity of the notes in the second register to be diminished, and their quality to be modified by the forced vibration of the walls of the tube, while in the primary all things concur in augmenting the effects produced by the glottis. Miiller agrees with Lehfeldt in opinion, that the falsetto notes are produced by the vibrations of the inner por- tion of the borders of the vocal ligaments, and the variation of the pitch by their tension ; and, although he does not mention by what mechanism this is effected, he seems to attri- bute it chiefly to the agency of the thyro- arytenoid muscles. The author's explanation is in many points coincident with that of Miiller, but he has taken into account one or two circumstances which appear to have escaped Midler's attention. The natural key or pitch of the vocal organs may be found by sounding the voice, without either elevating or depressing the larynx. The grave octave of that note will be the fundamental sound of the vocal ligaments vibrating in their most relaxed state, with the glottis entirely open. Any tones of a graver pitch, produced by an unusually relaxed state of the vocal cords, lose both their quality and intensity, and cannot be included in the compass natural to the voice. According to the preceding principles, the pitch of the voice being usually an octave, or a fifth graver than the length of a column of air within the vocal pipe, we see the cause why a falsetto quality of sound cannot be