1494 VOICE. nearly thrice as deep behind as in front; Crico- thyroid space very large ; Ventricles of Mor- gagni large and deep ; superior vocal cords prominent. L. T75 in. Elejjhant.—Larynx : H. 4'83 in. Thyroid : wings united at an obtuse angle; surface ex- ternally convex ; cornua, superior short; mar- gins of inferior notched in front. Pomum a distinct cartilage. Cricoid elliptical; inferior margin concave; body deep, posteriorly pass- ing over the first three rings of the trachea. Vocal ligaments : superior indistinct; infe- rior strong. L. 3'?5. Trachea, 30 rings, which are often partially subdivided. Voice intense, of a grave pitch, aided by the pro- boscis. Rbminantia. Camelus Bactrianus. — H. 3 in. Thyroid : wings united at an obtuse angle. Cricoid elliptical. Arytenoids trian- gular. Ventricles oval. Epiglottis : apex Fig. 909. The Larynx of the Camel laid open. a, epiglottis; b, superior vocal cords; c, inferior; d, arytenoid cartilages; e, vertical ridge; tu- bercle ; f, trachea. obtuse, posterior surface furnished with a tu- bercle. Vocal ligaments : superior rather broad bb {fig. 909); inferior strong cc. L. 1*5 in. Voice grave, but seldom exercised. Llama.—Larynx similar to the camel. Vo- cal ligaments, superior and inferior, present. Giraffe.—Vocal ligaments said to be ab- sent. Bos.— Larynx : wings of thyroid nearly equilateral, united at an obtuse angle. Cricoid massive, elliptical. Vocal cords : superior absent; inferior strong. L. 0-85 in. Trachea 52 rin<;s. Voice sonorous, intense, pitched in C = 256 vib. in \". Ovis Amnion.—Larynx differs from Bos only in dimensions. Voice guttural, pitched in F = 341 vib. in 1". Ante/ope. A. Dorcas, and A. Corinna.—La- rynx perforated by an aperture at the base of the epiglottis leading to a sac. A. gutturosa, pomum very large.* Cervus. C. Farandus or Rein Deer. — La- rynx has a laryngeal opening at the base of the epiglottis-f-, leading to a large sac. C. Alcas. H. 2'5 in. Thyroid : wings united at an obtuse angle ; cornua long; po- mum large, and concave within. Cricoid : posterior deep, shielding the five first rings of the trachea ; anterior narrow. Crico-thyroid chink c (Jig. 910) broad ; crico-thyroid liga- ment strengthened by additional perpendicular fibres d ; its superior ligament absent, inferior inserted into the concavity of the pomum. L. 1 -8 in. Voice grave. Fig. 910 Larynx of Cervus Alcas. a, thyroid c.; b, cricoid; d, crico-thyroid ligament. C. Capreolus.—Larynx: H. l-85 in.—Thv- roid : wings united at an obtuse angle. Cor- nua : superior long, inferior shorter, curved ; pomum large, concave within. Cricoid, ec- centric ellipse. Body : posterior deep, ante- rior narrow. Crico-thyroid chink large. L. 1*26 in. Voice grave. Cetacea. Balcenoptera rostrata.—H. 10 in. Thyroid: wings united at a very obtuse angle J, the superior margins being nearly straight ; inferior excavated by a triangular notch near the centre. Cornua : superior ab- sent ; inferior very large, straight, but curved in the dolphin. Cricoid: deep behind, absent in front, where it opens into a large sac § * See Pallas, Spicil. Zoolog. ftisc. xii. fig. 16. t See Camper, Naturges. ties Orang-outang, &c. j Indeed the wings spread open almost into a straight line. § This sac has been described by Hunter and Sandifoot. In the dolphin and porpoise the cricoid is imperfect in front.