910 TEETH. chairodus, fig. 580, VI.*), the series is still fur- ther reduced by the loss ofy>. 2 in the upper jaw. That the student may test for himself the demonstration which the developmental cha- racters above defined, yield of the true nature and homologies of the feline dentition,— the most modified of all in the terrestrial Carnivora, he is recommended to compare with nature the following details of the appearance and formation of the teeth in the common cat. In this species the deciduous incisors d.i. begin to appear between two anil three weeks old ; the canines d. c. next, and then the molars d. m. follow, the whole being in place before the sixth week. After the seventh month they begin to fall in the same order; but the lower sectorial molar m. 1, and its tubercular homo- type above (m. 1) appear before d. 2, d. 3, and d. 4 fall. The longitudinal grooves are very faintly marked in the deciduous canines. The first deciduous molar (d. 2), in the upper jaw is a very small and simple one-fanged tooth ; it is succeeded by the corresponding tooth of the permanent series, which answers to the second premolar ( /). 2) of the hyasna and dog. The second deciduous molar (d. 3) is the sectorial tooth; its blade is trilobate, but both the anterior and posterior smaller lobes are notched, and the internal tubercle, which is relatively larger than in the permanent sectorial, is continued from the base of the middle lobe, as in the deciduous sectorial of the dog and hyasna; it thus typifies the form of the upper sectorial, which is retained in the permanent dentition of several Viverrine and Musteline species. The third or internal fang of the deciduous sectorial is continued from the inner tubercle, and is opposite the interspace of the two outer fangs. The Musteline type is further adhered to by the young Feline in the large proportional size of its deciduous tubercular tooth, d. 4. In the lower jaw, the first milk- molar (d. 3) is succeeded by a tooth (p. 3) which answers to the third lower premolar in the dog and civet. The deciduous sectorial (d. 4), which is succeeded by the premolar (p. 4), an- swering to the fourth in the dog, has a smaller proportional anterior lobe, and a larger pos- terior talon, which is usually notched ; thereby approaching the form of the permanent lower sectorial tooth in the Mustclidce. In the article Carnivora (vol. i. p. 478.), the remarks on the teeth are limited chiefly to their physiological adaptations. A description of some of their more remarkable structures will here be given, according to the idea of the nature of the teeth above developed. The dental formula of the dog, jackal, wolf, and fox, is illustrated in Jig. 580, III. Canis. * 3Iachairodns, from /^xxcci^a, a sabre; and o5»i?, a tooth. This generic name was imposed by Dr. Kaup on the extinct animal which was armed with canine teeth, like that figured in fig. 580, VI. Such teeth, long, compressed, falciform, sharp- pointed, and with anterior and posterior finely- serrated edges, were first discovered in tertiary strata in Italy and Germany, and were referred by Cuvier to a species of bear, under the name of Ursus cultridens. Fossil canines of this genus have been found in Kent's Hole cave, Torquay. In the Megahtis, or Long-eared Fox (Oto- ci/on, Licht.), the deviation from the typical dentition of the Canidce is effected by excess of development; two additional true molars being present on each side of the upper, and one on each side of the lower jaw, in the permanent series of teeth ; and an approach is made by the modified form of the sectorial molar and of some of the other teeth to the dentition of the Viverridce. This family of Carnivora, which comprehends the Civets, Genets, Ichneumons, Musangs, Surikates, and Mangues, is characterised, with few exceptions, 3 3 j i by the following formula : — i. =—g ; c. ,—~; o—3 I — I 4, 4, 2 2 P- I—I > m' 2~2 : = ^ differs from that of the genus Canis by the absence of a tubercu- lar tooth (in. 3) on each side of the lower jaw ; but, in thus making a rearer step to the typical carnivorous dentition, the Viverridae, on the other hand, recede from it by the less trenchant and more tubercular character of the sectorial teeth, as is shown in the figures of the teeth of the Viverra indica, in my " Odon- tography," pi. 126. figs. 1, 2, and 3. The canines are more feeble, and their crowns are almost smooth; the premolars, however, assume a formidable size and shape in some aquatic species, as those of the sub- genus Cynogale, in which their crowns are large, compressed, triangular, sharp-pointed, with trenchant and serrated edges, like the teeth of certain sharks, (whence the name Sqtududvn, proposed for one of the species), and well adapted to the exigencies of quad- rupeds subsisting principally on fish: the op- posite or obtuse, thick form of the premolars is manifested by some of the Musangs, as Paradoxurus auratus. The upper sectorial tooth, p. 4, is characterised by having its inner tubercle larger, the middle conical division of the blade thicker, and the posterior one smaller than in the genus Canis. This tooth advances to beneath the ant-orbital foramen in the Mu- sangs (Paradoxiiras) : it is situated farther back in the Civets and Genets, in which the blade of the sectorial is sharper. This shows that relative position to the zygomatic or molar process of the maxillary is not a good cha- racter. In the lower jaw the sectorial tooth (m. 1) manifests its true molar character by the pre- sence of an additional pointed lobe on the inner side of the two lobes forming the blade at the fore-part of the crown : the posterior, low, and large lobe of the tooth being also tri-tuberculate, as in the dog. The last molar (m. 2) has an oval crown with four small tubercles, resembling the penultimate lower molar in the clog, with which it corresponds. The deciduous dentition consists, in the 3 3 Viverrine family, of: incisors ; canines J 3—3 ]—1 , 3—3 „ , j j ; molars g g: = 28. If the first per- manent premolar has any predecessor, it must be rudimcntal and disappear early in