1036 THORAX. Table C. — Thoracic Regions. REGION. Anterior : Clavicular (subclavian of Laennec) - Infra-clavian (anterior superior of Laennec) Mammary ------ Infra-mammary (sub-mammary of Laennec) Sternal — superior, middle, inferior - Lateral: Axillary ------ Infra-axillary (lateral of Laennec) Inferior-lateral - - - - Acromial ------ Posterior : Scapular, upper and lower Interscapular - Infra-scapular (inferior dorsal of Laennec) SITUATION. Portion covered by the clavicle. Between the clavicle and 4th rib inclusive. Between the 4th and 8th ribs. From the 8th rib to the cartilaginous border of false ribs. Over the respective parts of the sternum. All the axilla to the 4th rib inclusive. Between the 4th and 8th ribs at the side. Below the 8th to the false ribs inclusive. Between the clavicle, neck of humerus, and along the upper margin of scapula, includ- ing the root of the neck. Supra-spinous fossa and infra-spinous fossa. Between the inner margin of scapulae. Below inferior angle of scapula and border of serrati to the level of 12th vertebra. give the clearest sound upon percussion, and the back the least clear. Below Harrison's line, there is little or no evidence, from percussion, of the presence of lung, except in deep inspiration, and then the sound on per- cussion is mixed with other sounds from the abdominal organs. Only a small part of the mammary region covers lung, scarcely any being subjacent to the anterior parts of the 6th,°7th, and 8th ribs. (See fig. 4, wherein a transverse shading indicates the diaphragm.) Internal conformation of the thorax. — To comprehend clearly the internal shape of the thorax, it is necessary to take a cast of this cavity. This may be done by making an open- ing in the sternal region, just large enough to admit the hand to remove the heart and lungs, filling up the whole of the cavity with plaster of Paris and returning the sternum, then opening the abdomen, cutting away the diaphragm, and so removing the cast, which •nves us a clear knowledge of the internal conformation, and every kind of measurement correctly. (Fig. 667. is a cast from the cavity of figs. 680—685, — male subject.) We have stated that the perfect thorax viewed externally, and the same when the superficial muscles and upper extremities are removed, differ widely in their relative form. The tho- racic cavity likewise differs remarkably from either of these views. The general view is that of a cone, but broader from side to side than from before backwards : therefore the cone is somewhat flattened. (a) Anterior region. — This very closely re- sembles the anterior region of the external surface, being convex in its form, precisely corresponding with the concave sternum. The upper part, immediately behind the superior end of the sternum, is rather concave (fig. 667 ). At this part the cavity divides into two small cones, for the reception of the right and left apices of the lungs, which ascend upwards to a variable height, — an inch or an inch and a half. Both apices of the lungs are directed from below, upwards Fig. 667. a Cast of the cavity of the thorax represented in Jigs, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. and forwards; it is incorrect to consider them as directed backwards ( fig. 667, a, which is the left apex seen above the 1st rib.) In some cases, particularly where the lung presents a puckered appearance, the axis of the apex is inclined nearly to the horizontal, and at all times it is about per- pendicular to the sternum. These apice3, throughout advancing life, are tending to in- cline forwards ; it is this portion above the 1 st rib (fig. 667.), which is so vulnerable in phthisis pulmonalis. There is great difference in the precise character of these apices in different individuals; in fact we have seen no two the same ; some are remarkably truncated, and broad from before backwards ; others are thia in this direction, and pointed; some obtuse and low, others acute and high. They have the