URINE. According to Owen, in the kangaroo the combined prostatic and membranous or mus- cular part of the urethra is proportionally longer and wider in the marsupial than in any other mammiferous quadrupeds. It swells out immediately beyond the neck of the bladder, and then gradually tapers to its junction with the spongy part of the urethra; it is not, however, divided like the vagina. Its walls are thick, formed of an external thin stratum of nearly transverse muscular fibres, and a thick glandular layer, the secre- tion of which exudes by innumerable pores upon the lining membrane of this part of the urethra.* The urethra in the Monotremala approx- imates in many of its characters to that of the bird. " It begins by a small orifice at the root of the penis, near the termination of the pro-genital passage, and, by the action of certain muscles, it can be brought into closer approximation with the uro-genital passage." Owen supposes that this temporary continua- tion of the urethra and uro-genital passages takes place during the vigorous muscular and vascular actions of the parts in coitu, and that the semen is then propelled from one along the other without escaping into the com- mon ventricular compartment of the cloaca "f According to Cuvier, in the Gerboise de Mau- ritanie the spongy portion of the urethra does not join the corpora cavernosa until it reaches the glans. For the comparative anatomy of the urinary apparatus in birds, reptiles, and fish, see the separate articles on these subjects. The urethra in the females of the lower animals offers no peculiarity worthy of notice. Bibliography.—Male.—On the anatomy of the urethra, see various anatomical works ; and on the muscles surrounding the membranous portion, see Wilson, on the Structure and Diseases of the Urinary Organs; and Guthrie, on Diseases of the Bladder and Urethra. Daran, Observations Chirurgicales sur les Maladies de l'Uretre, traite'es suivant lanou- velle Me'thode. Paris, 1748. Guerin, Dissert, sur les Maladies de l'Uretre, avec des Re'flexions sur la me'thode qu'ont employee jusqu'a present les Pra- ticiens. Paris, 1780. Hunter, on the Venereal Disease. 2nd Edition. 1788. Whatdy ( Thomas), An Improved Method of treating Strictures of the Urethra. London, 1801. Labraud, Sur le Re'tre'- cissement Chronique de l'Uretre. Paris, 1805. Home, Practical Observations on the Treatment of Strictures of the Urethra. 1805. Kleeman, Dis- sertatio de curandis Urethra? Chronicis. Erlangen, 1811. Howship ( John), Practical Observations on the Diseases of the Urinary Organs, &c. London, 1816. Desault, Maladies des Voies Urinaires (CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii.). Paris, 1813. Arnott (James), M. D., A Treatise on Strictures of the Urethra, containing an Account of an improved Method of Treatment. London, 1819. Bell (Charles), A Treatise on Diseases of the Urethra, &c. &c. 3rd Edition, by Shaw. London, 1822. Ducamp, Traite des Retentions d'Urine cause'es par le Re'tre- cissement de l'Uretre, &c. Paris, 1822. IAsfranc, Des Re'treeissements de l'Uretre. Paris, 1824. Lallemand, Observations sur les Maladies des Or- ganes Genito-Urinaires. Paris, 1825-27. Winz- hcimer, Ueher die Organische Harnrohrenverenge- rung und [die verschiedenen Untersuchungs- und * See article Marstjfialia. ; t See article Monotremata. Heilungs-Methoden derselben. Erlangen, 1832. Amussat, Lecons sur les Re'tentions d'Urine cause'es par le Retre'cissement du Canal de l'Uretre, &c. 1832. Tanchon, Traite' des Re'tre'cissements du Canal de l'Uretre. 1835. D. J. Arntzenius, De Organische Gehrechen der Urethra. Utrecht, 1840. Brodie (Sir Ben).), Lectures on the Diseases of the Urinary Organs. 3rd Edition. 1842. Kugter, Praktische Abhandlung ttber die Verengerung der Harnrohre, und ihre Heilung ohne Aetzmittel. Wien, 1843. Guthrie, On the Anatomy and Dis- eases of the Neck of the Bladder and of the Urethra. London, 1834. Civiale, Sur les Maladies des Or- ganes Genito-Urinaires, 1850. Female.—For the anatomy of the female urethra, see the various works on Descriptive Anatomy. — For the morbid anatomy, the following works may be referred to: Morgagni, De Sedihus et Causis Morborum; Churchill, On the principal Dis- eases of Females, 1844, in which reference is made to the writings of Warner, Jenner, Sir C. M. Clarke, Wardrop, Velpeau, Hosack, Rosenmuller, Vogel, Kal- debrand, and Drokaska: also to Hughes, in Medi- cal Facts and Observations, vol. ii. p. 26.; to the Lancet, vol. xiii. p. 784.; to the Journ. Hebdom., July, 1836; to the New York Journal of Medicine and Surgery, No. 1. p. 29.; to Duges, on Diseases of the Uterus (Heming's Trans.), p. 546. ; and the fourth volume of the Transactions of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association. The Principles of Midwifery, &c, by John Burns, Glasgow, 1820. Dr. Ramsboiham's Lectures on Midwifery, Med. Ga- zette for June 6th, 1835. The British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. viii. 1839. Grosse's Patho- logical Anatomy, vol. ii. 1839. Dr. Ashwell, On Diseases of Women, 1846. John Adams. URINE. — Lat. TJrina; Gr. to oiipov ■ French, 1'Urine; Ital. FUrina; Germ, das Harris, The urine may be defined as that fluid which is eliminated by the kidneys in the dis- charge of their excretory function. The human urine being that of an omnivo- rous feeder, differs materially from that which is excreted by animals purely carnivorous or herbivorous. In cases occasionally met with, however, where, either from congenital taste, want, or the indulgence of eccentricity or curiosity, vegetable food alone has been taken by human beings, the urine has been observed to undergo certain modifications as a conse- quence. The urine, it is obvious, must vary much in constitution, according to the conditions under which the organism is placed, both in respect to external and internal circumstances. Thus the state of the atmosphere, as respects heat and cold, dryness and moisture, will affect the quantity of water excreted, as a constituent of the urine, while the quality and quantity of the ingesta, the state of the chylo- poietic organs, and the amount of exertion to which the body has been subjected, are all causes tending to modify the amount, and perhaps also the nature and quality, of the solid matters excreted by the kidneys. _ When treating, therefore, of the chemistry of normal urine, it must be borne in mind that, in fixing a standard, we are but giving a result more or less approaching to the truth, and that the real method of obtaining a philo- sophical view of its chemical constitution is, to regard the urine in its variations, in the