TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). 1006 epididymis, appears to prevent the oblitera- tion of the duct of which it is composed, and thus accounts for atrophy occurring much more rarely after consecutive orchitis than after inflammation originating in the body of the gland, where the delicate seminal tubes are enclosed in the firm unyielding tunica albuginea. Chronic orchitis. — The testicle is liable to a form of inflammatory swelling of a distinct and chronic character, which occasionally succeeds acute orchitis but far more com- monly arises spontaneously. The disease is of importance ; for, if unchecked, it tends to disorganise and destroy the gland. The chief anatomical character of this form of inflam- mation is the deposit of a peculiar yellow, homogeneous, inorganic matter in the struc- ture of the testicle. This substance when first formed is of soft consistence, but after- wards becomes firm and solid, and so closely adherent and intimately blended with the proper structure of the organ as not to admit of separation without much difficulty. In some instances there is a single deposit of this substance in the centre of the glandular structure, as in the preparation from which the annexed woodcut was taken. In others several are interspersed throughout the tes- ticle, portions of sound gland intervening. In a case of chronic enlargement of both testicles taken from a patient who died of ramollissement of the medulla spinalis, I found six or seven separate deposits of this yellow matter in the substance of the right testicle, and a single one only in the body of the left. The small masses as they enlarge coalesce, or the single one increases, until the whole testicle presents an uniform yel- lowish-white appearance. The epididymis is frequently invaded at the same time by a similar kind of morbid deposit, which also tends to obliterate its tubular structure. This, however, is not, as some pathologists suppose, a constant occurrence; for in the majority of testicles thus diseased that 1 have examined, the epididymis had entirely escaped. I have never succeeded in injecting this deposit, or in tracing vessels into it. But the vessels of the testicle generally are enlarged. Patholo- gists have differed as to the particular tissue in which this yellow matter is deposited. Sir A. Cooper and Cruveilhier describes it to be seated in the areolar tissue between the tubuli; whilst Sir B. Brodie is of opinion, that it is secreted from their inner surface, as he discovered the yellow substance in the canal of the epididymis and also in the vas deferens which are continuous with the tubuli. I have had the opportunity of in- specting a testicle affected with this disease, in what seems to me to be its early stage from which examination I think I have been able satisfactorily to confirm this opinion. The testicle was injected with red size, and a section then made of it. The surfaces of the tunica vaginalis were partly adherent, and about three drachms of serum were collected in one part of the sac. The body of the tes- ticle was not much enlarged : it contained, however, an abundant deposit of a firm opaque matter. Near the anterior edge of the testicle this deposit appeared in the section like round isolated yellowish-grey bodies, separated from each other by portions of the sound structure of the gland : about the centre of the organ it assumed a beaded arrangement, and towards the mediastinum formed a number of closely- set yellow lines or processes, radiating towards the posterior part of the testicle, where they were amalgamated into one uniform mass. Further examination perfectly satisfied me that this matter was lymph deposited in the tubuli seminiferi. The isolated and beaded appearances in the section resulted from breaks in the lymph thus deposited. The real seat of the effusion was very evident, from the arrangement described near the mediastinum. With a good lens some of the convoluted tubuli could be distinctly seen, filled with and dilated by the morbid deposit. A portion was carefully examined in the microscope with a similar result. The epididymis was Fig. 650. 1, fistulous sinus leading to the suppurating ca- vity in the head of the epididymis; 2, concrete ab- scess in the tail of the epididymis.