1283 URINE. Deposit of Earthy Phosphates. The earth}' phosphates, consisting of mag- nesia in combination with ammonia and phos- phoric acid, are seen as deposits in the urine in two forms, viz. as a monobasic and a bi- basic salt. The monobasic phosphate, which is seen in neutral or only slightly alkaline urine, presents the microscopic appearances as under (Jig. 793). Fig. 793. Urine depositing the first of these two varieties of sediment is generally of lighter colour than natural, and of moderately high specific gravity. The second variety, if not occasioned by the use of alkaline remedies, generally indi- cates important mischief in some part of the urinary apparatus, and is often combined with large quantities of epithelium, mucus, pus, and blood corpuscles. Deposit op Oxalate of Lime. This deposit, which is composed of lime in combination with an acid foreign to the con- stitution of healthy urine, presents itself under the microscope in the following forms, first described by Dr. Golding Bird (Jig. 79o). Fig. 795. The appearance of dark crystals, looking like cubes, is observed when this deposit is allowed to dry. The transparent spot in the centre is caused by reflection from the sides of the octohedron. Urine depositing oxalate of lime is generally of about the normal specific gravity. It oc- casionally has a light greenish hue. The de- posit when allowed to collect in a glass vessel is rarely seen otherwise than as a floating cloud collecting at bottom, and closely re- sembling the appearance which would be put on by the presence of an excess of the mucus of the bladder natural to the urine. It has recently been stated, by Dr. Frick, of Baltimore, that the crystalline masses, in the form of dumb-bells, described by Dr. Bird as consisting of oxalate of lime, are really com- posed of lithic acid. It is true that lithic acid occasionally assumes a form more or less re- sembling the dumb-bells figured by Dr. Bird, but scarcely so nearly as to be easily mis- taken for them. Dr. Marris Wilson has also recently shown that lithic acid may be made to assume a form nearly approaching in character to the dumb-bells. I have ex- amined, with Dr. Bird, some specimens of the dumb-bells, and am satisfied that those we operated upon were composed of lime in com- bination with an organic acid. In a paper recently published by Dr. Bird in the Medical Gazette, some reasons are given by him for believing that acid to be the oxaluric, and not the oxalic, and there would appear good grounds for the adoption of that opinion. Deposit of Cystine. This substance, which is not one of the ingredients of normal urine, is an organic bodj', occasionally existing as a deposit in the form of flattened hexagonal plates. Under the microscope it presents the following ap- pearances (Jig. 79G). Fig. 796. Carbonate of Lime Deposit. This rare deposit exists in the form of spherical masses, more or less crystalline, and apparently made up of slender rhomboidal prisms, diverging from a centre. It presents the following appearance under the micro- scope (Jig. 797). Fig. 797. Hippuric Acid. This exists occasionally in excessive quantity in human urine in disease. Under the micro- scope it shows the following appearance (Jig. 798). 4 N 2