VEIN. 1384 either side is the cardinal vein, and that the heart is a muscular development on the coats of that vessel. The action of this heart ap- pears to be quite independent of the branchial heart ; for, as Dr. Hall observes, " whilst the latter beats sixty, the former beats one hun- dred and sixty times in a minute. It con- tinues for a very long time after the influence of the pulmonic heart is entirely removed."* I have never seen the action of the caudal heart quite so rapid as is described by Dr. Hall : in one individual, partly torpid from cold, it contracted but sixty times in the minute; but when this fish was warmed, the number rose to one hundred and two, — the beats of the branchial heart being less than half the caudal. The blood, which is deep red, appears to flow into the extreme end of this organ in a continuous stream, but is forced out at each contraction from the other aperture in an interrupted current. The absence of any re- gurgitation, at the further end of the heart, would suggest the presence of some valvular apparatus there situate. The jet of blood, sent forward at each contraction, may be beautifully seen by holding up the tail of the eel to the light; it is seen as a regular, ar- terial, per-saltum, jet, passing along the vessel in front of the heart, which, in the intervals of each contraction, is empty: as Dr. Hall expresses it, the blood is " propelled with great velocity, at first with the appearance of successive drops.''-)- This per sal turn cur- rent only exists a short distance, and gradu- ally degenerates into a continuous, venous, stream. When the parts are submitted to low magnifying power, I have observed that at each systole of the heart the veins at the distal extremity of the organ are vio- lently tugged in the longitudinal direction (produced by the shortening of the heart in its contracted state), and this exists as far as several ramifications from the heart (d'd'). A movement in the opposite direction takes place at the diastole, which is doubtless as- sisted by the elasticity of the vessels restoring them to their former length. This circum- stance, moreover, proves the complete con- tinuity of structure of this organ with the small vessels which furnish the blood upon which it contracts. I have seen this best when the tail has been cut from the body,— the bloodless heart still going on contracting. I have failed altogether to find any lym- phatics going to this pulsating organ ; and the facts which I have already adduced, that it receives blood from behind, and transmits it forwards ; the large aggregate quantity of fluid which it propels in a given time ; the rhyth- mical tension of the capillary veins, attached to the distal end, at each contraction, as well as the apparent absence of lymphatics, seem to prove that it is a blood, and not a lymph, heart. * Hall's Essay on the Circulation, p. 172. | Loc, cit. II. Physical and Vital Properties.— As it regards the physical properties of veins, it may be remarked that their walls are thin as contrasted with arteries of the same calibre, those of the upper extremity being less than those of the lower; they are somewhat looser in texture, especially externally, and more extensile in the transverse direction — are distensible, and when distended they do not readily return to their former dimensions ; both circumstances being due, in a great measure, to the general longitudinal direction of their fibres : according to Soemmering the resisting power of veins diminishes with advancing age. The walls of veins are elastic, though less so than arteries, which pre-eminently exhibit that quality. The extreme thinness and slight physical resistance of veins is the cause why they collapse when empty. An empty vein presents very fine longi- tudinal rugae on its inner surface. The tissue of veins is less distinctly yellow than arteries, and frequently is stained of a pinkish colour by the blood in contact with it. Though their physical properties are, for the most part, of a negative character, they nevertheless possess the property of tenacity to a great degree, and are at least as strong as arteries of the same capacity, though the substance of the latter is so much more con- siderable. Ligature applied to a vein produces a longi- tudinal folding of the walls, which is very ap- parent when the vessel .is laid open after it has been tied. An indentation is produced across the inner surface of the vessel at the line of ligature, caused by the complete or partial rupture of its thin inner, longitudinal, fibrous tunic. But the entire thickness of the wall appears to have undergone a partial cut, as though one element of the compound mass of which it is composed had been divided while the rest remained entire ; and it would seem probable that a ligature applied tightly around a vein would divide the crisp yellow elastic tissue, while the tenacious white fibrous element, with which it is mixed, would remain entire. This probable expla- nation I have found, upon microscopical ex- amination, to be correct; the two parts, there- fore, of a vein that has been ligatured, are held together by the white fibrous tissue that enters into the constitution of its walls.* Vital Properties of Veins. — I am not aware of any experiments which have been directed to decide the amount of sensibility possessed by veins : it is probably, judging from anato- mical grounds, exceedingly low. As regards vital contractility, it has been a matter of dispute whether veins possess that property or not. Soemmering held them to possess it in an eminent degree, especially under the influence of chemical stimuli, wh ist * For some beautiful illustrations of ligatured veins, I would refer to Cooper and Travers's Sur- gical Essays, vol. i. plate 12.