VISION. 1150 on each retina, becomes less and less as the object is seen at a greater distance from the eyes, and entirely ceases when it is so distant that the optic axes are parallel while regarding it. We see, with both eyes, all objects beyond this distance precisely as we see near objects with a single eye ; for the pictures on the two retinae are then exactly similar, and the mind appreciates no difference, whether two iden- tical pictures fall on corresponding parts of the two retinae, or whether one eye is im- pressed with only one of these pictures. A person deprived of the sight of one eye sees therefore all external objects, near and remote, as a person with both eyes sees remote objects only : but that vivid effect, arising from the binocular vision of near objects, is not per- ceived by the former, who, to supply the deficiency, resorts to other means of acquiring more accurate information ; and of these the motion of the head is the principal. Mr. VVheatstone has also shown that, if similar images, differing only in magnitude, are presented to analogous parts of the reduce, the resultant idea is that of an image appa- rently intermediate in size between them.* Foucault and I. Regnault have employed the stereoscope to determine whether com- plementary retinal images produce the im- pression of white on corresponding points of both eyes. Two complementary rays, ob- tained by chromatic polarisation, were thrown in a horizontal direction on the mirrors of a stereoscope, and reflected from them on the screens attached at the sides, so that two small disks of paper were coloured by them. At first one or other complementary colour was alternately seen : after a time, however, the two impressions united to form white ; and when the eyes had once become accus- tomed to this, a whole series of complemen- tary colours could be introduced successively, and nothing but white was seen during the entire experiment. From the following interesting experiments by Sir David Brewster, it appears that we give solidity and relief to plane figures by a suitable application of colour to parts that are placed at different distances from the eye. If we look with both eyes through a lens about two and a half inches in diameter, at an ob- ject having colours of different refrangibilities, as a red "rose among green leaves, the two colours will appear at different distances from the eye of the observer. In this experiment we are looking through the margin of two semi-lenses, orvirtual prisms, by which the more refrangible ra3 s are more refracted than the less refrangible rays. The doubly coloured object is thus divided into two, as it were, and the distance between the two blue por- tions is as much greater than the distance between the two red portions (red and blue being supposed to be the colours) as twice * Sir David Brewster disputes this and several other deductions of Mr. Wheatstone, in an able paper, " On the Law of Visible Position in Single and Binocular Vision," Transactions of the Royal So- ciety of Edinburgh, vol. xv. the deviation produced by the virtual prism, if we use a large lens or two semi-lenses, or by the real prisms if we use prisms. The images of different colours being thus sepa- rated, the eyes unite them, as in the stereo- scope, and the red image takes its place nearer the observer than the blue, in the same manner as the two nearest portions of the dis- similar stereoscopic figures stand up in relief at a distance from their more remote por- tions. The reverse of this will take place, if a concave lens be used, or if the refracting angles of the two prisms be turned inwards. The modified stereoscope has very recently been applied to photographic purposes with the happiest results. Adaptation to distance. — On no subject connected with the physioloey of the eye has there been a greater diversity of opinion than on the mode in which adjustment to distance is performed. That such adjustment is necessary, is proved by the simple experiment of looking between the fingers held about eight inches from the eye, at a distant object. When the distant object is seen distinctly, the fingers will be seen indistinctly; and if we look at the fingers so as to see them quite distinctly, the distant object will be indis- tinct. Our space will not admit of our doing more than glancing rapidly at the theories which have been advanced, and eagerly sup- ported, to account for this alteration in the focus of the eye. By Bayle, Itohault, Home, Olbers, and Schroeder Vanderkolk, alteration in the form of the eye by means of the ex- ternal muscles was supposed to be the medium of adjustment. The movements of the iris have had their supporters, of whom the prin- cipal were Mile and Pouillet. Ramsden and Sir Everard Home regarded a change in the convexity of the cornea as the medium of adjustment. By John Hunter and Dr. Young (who devoted much time to the inquiry), elongation and shortening of the axis of the lens, through a contractile power inherent in the lens itself, were supposed to be the cause; and lastly, it was referred by many authori- ties, including Kepler, Scheiner, Camper, and Porterfield, to the movement of the lens by means of the ciliary processes. Porterfield was probably the first who hit upon the true explanation, by referring the adjustment to the action of the ciliary body upon the crys- talline, and by distinctly asserting the mus- cularity of the ciliary body. In reply to the arguments of De la Hire (who maintained that at whatever distance objects were placed, the eyes never altered their focus), Porter- field acutely observes : " This author main- tains that it is impossible the crystalline can change its situation, because the ciliary liga- ment is not muscular, and consequently has no power of contraction : and of this opinion are likewise a great many anatomists, and in particular Hovius : but it appears that all of them have been led into this mistake by an unjust no;ion they have entertained about the colour of muscles. Every body knows that our muscles are generally of a red colour; but