URETHRA. 1237 tended with excessive irritation along the whole course of the canal, and the prostate gland becomes hypertrophied in consequence. Sir Benjamin Brodie mentions a remarkable case of this description. In this case the urethra, behind the obstruction, was so di- lated, that, whenever the patient attempted to pass his urine, a fluctuating tumour, as large as a small orange, was felt in the perinseum. It was punctured, and immediately the urine gushed out in a full stream. The escape of calculi from the bladder often occasions dilatation of the urethra into pouches ; and such dilatations occur inde- pendent of ulceration. On dissection of these pouches, the mucous mi mbrane is usually found injected and thickened, presenting fungous vegetations, and occasionally coated with lymph. The urethra deviates frequently from its norma! direction : thus, in large scrotal hernias, and hydroceles of large size, it takes a ser- pentine course: so also, when tumours press on the canal, its course is altered. The same happens in enlargement of the prostate gland, and from the projection of its middle lobe, the urethra divides itself into two streams. Abscesses also distort the canal from its na- tural direction. Tumours in the pelvis, as a collection of hydatids between the bladder and rectum, in consequence of the influence they exert on the bladder, frequently distort the urethra from its normal direction. This dis- tortion occurs more especially to the pelvic part of the canal. Under these circumstances the urethra is generally lengthened to a greater or less extent. Solutions of continuity result either from mechanical injury, or from disease. The urethra may be wholly or in part divided. Most commonly, if the division be incomplete, a small fistulous opening remains for a short time, which subsequently, if let alone, com- pletely closes. Incisions through the mem- branous part of the urethra, as in the opera- tion of lithotomy, speedily cicatrise. The most serious injuries to the urethra are those resulting from blows or falls on the perinavum, especially when they are accom- panied by fracture of the ossa pubis. In these cases there is either partial or complete solu- tion of continuity. The membranous part of the urethra, from its position beneath the pubic arch, most frequently suffers. The na- ture of the injury may be generally recognised by the escape of blood with the urine, or by complete retention of urine. An elastic ca- theter, carefully introduced, will in the former case generally grate ag.iinst the torn part In complete division of the urethra, if the patient survive the injury, the torn ends are, in the progress of the cicatrisation and con- traction, brought into apposition, and the con- tinuity of the tube is restored : stricture is the almost necessary consequence. If, how- ever, the cure is not accomplished, urinary fistula is the unfortunate result. When the complete division of the urethra is accom- panied with fracture of the pubis, the two ends of the canal are frequently so completely separated, that extensive extravasation of urine ensues, and the case is generally fatal. Severe contusion of the urethra, inde- pendent of rupture, sometimes leads to ul- ceration or sloughing, and occasionally gives rise to stricture by inducing chronic inflam- mation of the injured part. Laceration of the urethra occasionally hap- pens from the introduction of foreign bodies, or from the escape of fragments of calculi, especially after the operation of lithotrity. The torn part generally heals under simple treatment, or the urine is infiltrated into the spongy body, and abscess is the consequence. Laceration often attends violent efibrts to force a stricture with the sound or catheter : these injuries usually happen at the under part of the canal, and frequently heal if all violence be desisted from. In a case of la- cerated urethra brought into the London Hospital, a large pouch as big as a small orange was formed in the scrotum, into which, when the man attempted to micturate, the urine was forced ; he then squeezed it through the natural passage. By degrees this pouch gradually contracted, and no vestige of it remained. Inflammation of the urethra, whether com- mon or specific, is usually of the catarrhal form : common inflammation is comparatively rare ; but it may be excited by chemical and mechanical stimuli, or it may depend entirely on constitutional indisposition : thus strong injections have been known to induce every symptom of severe urethritis simulating an attack of gonorrhoea; but the disease is speedily arrested by ordinary antiphlogistic treatment. Under the head of mechanical causes may be enumerated the introduction of the catheter or bougie, and other foreign bodies, and the passage of calculi entire or in fragments, and blows on the perinseum. The urethra is sometimes inflamed from constitutional causes, or sympathetically : thus stone or calculus in the bladder and kidneys frequently leads to urethritis ; some substances taken into the stomach produce the disease, as asparagus, cantharides, and turpentine, and arsenic if administered in large doses, espe- cially if the poison be allowed to accumulate in the system. In persons of a gouty diathesis, urethritis occasionally occurs, followed by a discharge of muco-pus. According to Front, "gouty irritation of the urethra often assumes all the characters of gonorrhoea, and is not only attended by a profuse discharge, but with great irritation ami scalding in passing water." During the prevalence of influenza, I have witnessed a severe attack of urethral inflam- mation accompanied with copious puriform secretion, and attended with the ordinary symptoms of clap ; under the influence of a purge it passed off entirely in a few days. Suppression of cutaneous eruptions, according to the German pathologists, not unfrequently causes urethritis. Inordinate indulgence in venery, and masturbation, produce inflamnm-