1261 URETHRA. strictured part, thus inducing a valvular ap- pearance. Authorities vary as to the forma- tion of this stricture. Some, as Ducamp and Laennec, believe it to depend on the organ- isation of false membrane thrown out on the mucous surface. Amussat attributes it to the healing of an ulcer, but there can be little doubt that both causes may give rise to a similar condition. Arutzenius considers it due to a swelling of the mucous membrane, and consequent loosening from the subjacent tissue : thus the membrane becomes wrinkled, and a fold is formed on its surface. Hunter attributes the origin of these stric- tures to spasm of the circular muscular fibres of the urethra. Sir C. Bell describes them as occasionally splitting into branches, and running in a longitudinal rather than a circular direction. He considers them as the result of inflammation of the mucous surface: to this opinion most modern surgeons subscribe. Sometimes two or more annular or bridle strictures coexist at short intervals in the same urethra. Hunter met with six, Lallemand seven, and Calot as many as eight. The next variety of permanent or organic stricture is that in which the urethra is nar- rowed to a much greater extent of its course^ than in the former case. In these cases half an inch or an inch, or even the whole extent of the spongy part of the urethra, is more or less contracted. The stricture occupies one or other side, or it completely encircles the tube. It varies in consistence, from a soft, yielding thickening of the membrane, to a complete cartilaginous hardening. The dis- ease in its most simple form occupies either the mucous layer alone, or the submucous elastic layer ; but it is not limited to this, for in many cases the tissue intervening between the submucous layer and the spongy body is the seat of disease, whilst in others even the spongy body itself, whose cells are obliterated by the deposition of lymph, becomes thick- ened and indurated, and thus encroaches on the urethral tube. I regard genuine simple stricture as dependent on hypertrophy of the mucous or epithelial layer and the submucous elastic lamina of the urethra. Stricture in its progress passes through various stages, from simple thickening to complete cartilaginous induration. The com- plete cartilaginous conversion of stricture is more frequently found where the stricture is situated in the spongy portion. The most intractable stricture is that which results from ulceration of the meatus ; it is frequently associated with adhesion of the prepuce to the glands; sometimes the stric- tured part will not permit the passage of a bristle. For the cure of this disease incision is necessary. Among the most common attendants on stricture of the urethra are hernial protrusions of the mucous membrane of the bladder, be- tween the columns of the detrusor wince, in the form of sacculi. As a consequence of stricture of the urethra, may be mentioned rupture of the canal and of the bladder itself. It is probable that these are preceded by interstitial absorption, and not unlikely by sloughing or ulceration. And the straining to overcome the impediment to the exit of the urine leads frequently to the formation of hernia at the groin, and has been attended with rupture of the rectus abdominis muscle.* In old strictures the membrane of the urethra is usually hypertrophied, the orifices of the lacunae are enlarged, and the prostatic ducts considerably dilated. The prostate gland itself is frequently hypertrophied in consequence of the general irritation of the urethra. False passages. — A false passage may be formed in any part of the canal, according to the seat of stricture ; there may be one only, or several may co-exist. The under part of the urethra usually gives way, owing to the direction given to the point of the catheter. Sometimes the catheter, passing beneath the stricture, re-enters the urethra, and is then directed into the bladder, or it may be forced onwards through the prostate gland ; occa- sionally the catheter penetrates but a short distance, and on withdrawal enters the na- tural passage. False passages through the third lobe of the prostate gland not unrre- quently result from unskilful attempts to re- lieve retention of urine from enlarged pro- state ; in this way the gland may be perforated in three or four places. When false passages are maintained by the frequent attempts to pass the catheter, they become lined by a mucous membrane, and the urine is in some ever afterwards discharged through the newly formed canals. Fistulce in perinceo (urinary fistulae) —are a common consequence of ulceration behind a stricture ; they are generally preceded by abscess, and sometimes by gangrene. Not unfrequently they arise independently of any obstruction, as after abscess from acute go- norrheal inflammation. Urinary fistulas result also from wounds of the canal, as after the operation of lithotomy, or the extraction of calculi from the urethra. Suppuration of the lacunae sometimes leads to urinary fistula: this happens occasionally to the lacuna magna. In urinary fistula there is sometimes a single opening into the urethra, with many- external openings. These are found in various situations: thus they occasionally exist anterior to the scrotum, sometimes in the perinaeum, and now and then they open into the rectum, or even as low down as the tuberosities of the ischia : the external and internal openings do not always correspond, the intervening tract taking a tortuous course. The walls of the fistula are much thickened and indurated, and this induration extends for some distance to the parts around, and involves a large extent of the cellular tissue and skin, so that the perinaeum feels as hard as cartilage : the canal of the fistula is lined by a mucous membrane. Sometimes the fistula passes upwards to- * See Dublin Journal of Medical Science, May 1842, p. 308.