878 TEETH. teeth of the Scams a fourth substance is added by the ossification of the base of the pulp after its summit and periphery have been converted into hard dentine ; and the teeth {fig. 558.), thus composed of cement (e), enamel (e), dentine (d), and osteo-dentine, are the most complex in regard to their sub- stance that have yet been discovered in the animal kingdom. The tubes which convey the capillary ves- sels through the substance of the osteo- and vaso-dentine of the teeth of fishes* were early recognised, on account of their com- paratively large size ; as by Andre, e.g. in the teeth of Acanthurus, and by Cuvier and Von Born in the teeth of the Wolf-fish and other species. Leeuwenhoek had also detected the much finer tubes of the peripheral dentine of the teeth of the Haddock. These " den- tinal tubuli" are given off from the parietes of the vascular canals, and bend, divide, and subdivide rapidly in the hard basis-tissue of the interspaces of those canals in osteo-den- tine ; the dentinal tubuli alone are found in true dentine, and they have a straighter and more parallel course, usually at right angles to the outer surface of the dentine. Those conical teeth which, when fully formed, con- sist wholly or in great part of osteo-den- tine or vaso-dentine, always first appear with an apex of hard or true dentine. In some fishes the simple central basal pulp-cavity of such teeth, instead of breaking up into irregu- _ar or parallel canals, sends out a series of vertical plates from its periphery, which, when calcified, give a fluted character to the base of the tooth, e. g. in Lcpidosteus oxyurus. f Sometimes such radiating vertical basal plates of dentine are wavy in their course, and send off narrow processes from their sides; and, as a thin layer of the outer capsule interdigi- tates with the outstanding plates of the den- tinal pulp, and becomes co-calcified with them, a transverse section of such a tooth presents a series of interblended wavy or labyrinthic tracts of thick dentine radiating from the cen- tre, and of thin cement converging towards the centre of the tooth.\ An analogous but more * The vaso-dentine of Pristis and Myliobates is like that of the teeth of the Cape Anteater ( Orycte- ropus): the vaso-dentine of the Psammodonts re- sembles that which forms the base of the tooth of the Sloth and Megatherium: the vaso-dentine of Mammals differs from the osteo-dentine in the absence of the radiated " Purkinjian;" cells. f Wyman, American Journal of Natural Sciences, Oct. 1843. Cuvier has given an accurate view of the plaited structure of the base of the Wolf-fish's teeth in pi. 32, Jig. 7. of his Lecons d'Anatomie Compare'e, 1805; where it is described at the base of the osseous tubercle, which supports the true tooth. { This remarkable structure attains its highest complication and forms the largest proportion of the tooth in the gigantic extinct labyrinthodont Batra- chia, and from which, therefore, I have taken the illustrations of that complex modification of dental structure (Jig. 552 .). I had discovered in 1841 the more simple modification of this structure " at the base of the tooth in a few fishes " (Geol. Trans., 2d series, vol. vi., p. 507), but had not then seen so complex an example in that class as Dr. Wyman complicated structure obtains when the ra- diating, wavy, vertical plates of dentine dicho- tomise, and give off from their sides, through- out their course, numerous branch plates and processes, which are traversed by medullary sinuses and canals with their peripheral ter- minations dilated, and becoming the centres of lobes or columns of hard dentine. The transverse section of such teeth gives the ap- pearance of bl anches of a tree, with leaf-stalks and leaves, radiating from the central pulp- cavity to the circumference of the tooth ; and I have called the fossil fish in which this structure was first detected, Dendrodus. Thus, with reference to the main and funda- mental tissue of tooth, we find not fewer than six leading modifications in fishes; — hard or true dentine {Sparoids, Labroids, Lophius, Ba- tistes, Pi/ciwdonts, Prionodon, Sphyrcena, Mega- tich'hys, Rhizodus, Diodon, Scarus) ; osteo- dentine (Cesfracion, Acrodus, Lepidosiren, Ctenodus, Hybodus, Percoids, Sciceuoids, Cot- toids, Gobioids, and many others); vaso-den- tine (Psammodiis, Chimceroids, Pristis, Mylio- bates) ; plici-dentine (Lophius, Holoptychius, Lcpidosteus oxyurus, at the base of the teeth) ; labyrintho-dentine (Lepidosteus platyrhinus, Bothriolepis); and dendro-dentine (Dendro- dus') ; besides the compound teeth of the Scarus and Diodon. One structural modification may prevail in some teeth, another in other teeth of the same fish ; and two or more modifications may be present in the same tooth, arising from changes in the process of calcification and a persis- tency of portions or processes of the primitive vascular pulp or matrix of the dentine. The dense covering of the beak-like jaws of the Parrot-fishes (Scari), consists of a stratum of prismatic denticles, standing al- most vertically to the external surface of the jaw-bone. An account of the structure and development of this peculiar armature of the jaws is abridged from my " Odontography " (pp. 112—416.), in the article Pisces ( Vol. 111, p. 979.). It is peculiarly adapted to the ha- bits and exigencies of a tribe of fishes which browse upon the lithoph}tcs that clothe, as with a richly tinted carpet, the bottom of the sea, just as the Ruminant quadrupeds crop the herbage of the dry land. The irritable bodies of the gelatinous polypes which constitute the food of these fishes retract, when touched, into their star- shaped stony shells, and the Scari conse- quently require a dental apparatus strong enough to break oft' or scoop out these cal- careous recesses. The jaws are, therefore, prominent, short, and stout, as shown in fig. 515. p. 979. Vol. HI.; ami the exposed portions of the premaxilliaries and premandibulars are encased by the complicated dental covering represented in figs. 515 and 516. Vol. III. The polypes and their cells are reduced to a pulp by the action of the pharyngeal jaws and M. Agassiz (Recherches sur les Poissons Fos- siles, " Sauroides," 1843) subsequently described and figured, in teeth of the genus Lepidosteus.