1196 TUNICATA. mogeneous structure crowded with " nuclei" and bloodvessels, and only occasionally does any trace of cellular tissue present itself, in which case the cells are very minute, poly- gonal, and compressed. Mr. J. Quekett has detected calcareous spiculse in the test of this species. They are situated towards the ex- terior, and are very numerous and excessively minute. Their form is usually cylindrical, with triradiate or 4-5-fid extremities.* The composition of the test of ClaveUina lepadiformis corresponds in all respects to that of the above mentioned Ascidice; certain parts in the same individual having a more particular resemblance to one species, and others to another. The test, however, is quite destitute of bloodvessels. Transverse sections of the stalk of the ClaveUina and of the excrescences that spring from it, exhibit a tissue composed of round or elongated non-nucleated cells, 0-01,//—0-014"', almost destitute of inter- mediate tissue, and arranged very close to one another. It is only towards the upper extremity of the stalk that the cells become more and more separate, and even disappear little by little, as happens in some Ascidice, and give place to an intermediate homogeneous substance, bear- ing a quantity of nuclei. In the largest and superior moiety of the test a peculiar structure is found. Externally is a dense, but not thick, layer of delicate cells, which are very difficult to recognise, and measure about 0-02"'. Be- tween the cells, and immediately at the surface, are crystals of carbonate of lime, scattered nuclei (measuring 0-002"'), and large round fatty granules. Interiorly to this occurs a still thinner lamina, composed of a trans- parent, colourless, homogeneous substance, with infinitely minute pale granules. Next, there is a layer of round granules or vesicles. These are spherical, measuring 0'0005'", 0-0004'", and even 0-005'"; their surface is smooth or granulated; the largest are placed in the middle, the smallest at the exterior; they appear opaque, and like starch or fat granules. With solution of iodine, they be- come yellowish, without presenting any trace of blue, and are probably fat grains. Succeeding to these, a thick layer presents itself, homogeneous, diaphanous, with some few minute spherical nuclei, which, the nearer they approach towards the interior, contain more and more colourless granules. Lastly, quite at the interior surface, is athinnish, com- pletely diaphanous substance, of equal thick- ness throughout, with spherical granular nuclei, measuring about 0-003"'. Treated with soda and with hydrochloric acid, the crystals, nuclei, and fat granules of the test of the ClaveUina disappear; the large cells, on the contrary, and the homogeneous substance, with its scattered granules, remain perfectly unaffected, proving the identity of the chemical composition in Ascidia and Cla- veUina. * Several specimens are figured by Mr. Quekett in the Descript. and Illustr. Catal. of the Histological Series in the Mus. Royal Coll. Surgeons, 18-19, plate xvii. fig. 13. The Salpa maxima does not contain, in its gelatinous envelope, any trace of cells similar to those of the Phallusia and ClaveUina. It is for the most part composed of a homogeneous, clear, diaphanous substance. Towards the interior surface, the several elements are not so clearly arranged as in the middle and external layers. In the innermost layers, a multitude of very minute granules are pre- sent; in the others there are little round nuclei, nucleated cells, and spherical or star- shaped crystalline concretions. These latter are very regular, and formed of 3—7 straight rays, springing from a centre (Jig. 774. c). They Fig. 774. A. Incrusted cells of the fundamental mass of Didemnum candidum. a, unaltered cells; b, a cell the lime of which has been nearly extracted by means of hydrochloric acid. (After Liiwig and Kolliker). B. Incrusted cells of Botri/llus violaceus. a, sphe- rical cell; b, cell with two colourless prolongations; c, with three; d, with four; and e, with only one such prolongation. C. Siliceous concretions from the test of Salpa maxi- ma, magnified 350 times. (After Lowig and Kolliher). D. Calcareous concretion from test of Leptoclinium maculosum. (After Milne-Edwards.} are composed of a single or manifold series of granules, which, as they approach the exterior, increase or lessen in number, but always di- minish in size. These do not appear to be car- bonate of lime, not being soluble in hydro- chloric acid ; and their behaviour with muriate of barytes shows that they are not formed of sulphate of lime ; probably they are siliceous. The granules and nuclei are dissolved by boil- ing in solution of soda j but the homogeneous substance, composing the mass of the tunic, remains unchanged. The test ot'Salpa bicaudata is essentially the same, in the nature of its composition, as that