1291 URINE. fallacy which I pointed out some years ago in connection with this subject.* Phlebitis Uterina. The following is a description, by F. Simon' of specimens of urine in this disease. 1. Co- lour dark ; reaction acid ; deposit of uric acid and urate of ammonia. 2. Colour dark ; al- kaline reaction ; ammoniacal odour; deposit dirty yellow in colour, composed of mucus, ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, amorphous precipitate of phosphate of lime, and urate of ammonia. Meningitis. The urine in this disease assumes the or- dinary inflammatory type. It is described as dark red, scanty (8 to 9 fluid ounces in the twenty-four hours), strongly acid ; specific gravity high. According to Becquerel, the mean of four cases was 1025*2. Deposit of uric acid, which, if not present spontaneously, is immediately produced by the addition of nitric acid. Encephalitis. Urine much the same as in meningitis ; sometimes a sediment. Spec, gravity, 1020-2. Observations have been made by several foreign writers on the state of the urine in insanity. Drs. Sutherland and Rigby have also paid some attention to the subject. It appears to be generally alkaline, and to con- tain much ammonia in these cases ; the whole subject, however, needs further and cartful investigation. Dr. Bence Jones states, that in acute inflammation of the brain there is an increase in the total amount of phosphates excreted in the urine. Delirium Tremens. In this disease the urine is said to present the general features of the inflammatory type. Dr. Bence Jones states, that in delirium tremens the phosphates are decreased in quan- tity in the urine, provided no food is taken. If food be taken, this diminution is not ob- served. Myelitis. In this disease the urine is of much the same character as in inflammation of the brain, viz. red, acid, thick, and containing a sediment. Cases are, however, recorded by Becquerel, in which the urine did not greatly vary from the natural standard. There appears no ex- cessive excretion of the phosphates in this disease, according to Dr. Jones's experiments. Bronchitis. All that we gather worthy of notice from the detailed examinations of Becquerel in respect to the state cf the urine in this dis- ease is, that it occasionally contains albumen. This may perhaps sometimes happen when great obstruction to the circulation of blood through the lungs has existed for any length * For the proper method of examining the urine in order to determine the presence or absence of albumen, I beg to refer to my work on Diseases of the Kidney connected with albuminous urine. of time. In by far the greater number of cases, however, no indication of this kind is found, unless the kidneys be predisposed to such form of disease as favours the effusion of serum. Pneumonia. In pneumonia the urea excreted is less than in health ; the uric acid is increased, the salts diminished, and the extractive matters increased, and more especially the alcoholic extract. The following are comparative analyses of the solid matters in 100 parts : — Urinp of Becquerel. Simon. health. Urea - - - 37-6 39-0 37-2 39-0 Uric acid - - 2-0 1-7 2-8 1-5 Fixed salts - 14-0 18-3 14-0 25-8 Extractives - 45-4 400 370 23-6 Sulphate of potassa 9 10-3 During the resolution of pneumonia , Simon and Schonlein have observed that a deposit occurs in the urine composed of the mono- basic ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate. Uric acid was also thrown down on the addition of acids. This latter reaction, however, is not peculiar to this disease, I having myself often observed it in low forms of fever and also in small-pox. Heller relates the case of a boy in which the urine had the odour of hydrosulphateof ammonia, and deposited urate of soda. Pleuritis. In this disease the urine in general exhibits much the same characters as in pneumonia. Empyema. In cases of empyema the urine has been observed to contain pus by Schonlein and Simon. The empyema gradually disappeared, the urine containing albumen, and the deposit, when examined, showing the ordinary pus corpuscles. Hepatitis. In hepatitis the urine is extremely deficient in urea, according to Rose, who in one case believed it absent. Henry agrees in this opinion ; and Coindet states that, instead of urea, the urine contains a substance resembling bilin. Simon and Becquerel, however, differ from Rose and Henry, and mention a case of hepatitis in which urea was excreted in excess. Nephritis. In this disease, when it assumes the acute character, the urine is often bloody and very acid, and deposits the uric acid crystalline deposit. In arthritic nephritis the quantity of the uric acid crystals is sometimes ex- tremely great. In a case mentioned by Schon- lein the sediment occupied half the volume of the urine. Chronic Nephritis, Albuminous Nephri- tis, Morbus Brightii. In the morbus Brightii the urine contains abundance of albumen. Blood is occasionally observed in the early stages. It is generally acid, far less, frequently alkaline, and occasion-