1473 VITAL STATISTICS. where the average age at death is nearly 38^ years, the mean age at death would become 30i years, or a year and a halt' in excess of the mean age at death of the existing inhabit- ants of London. The advantage, therefore, which the county of Hereford enjoys over the metropolis, in a sanitary point of view, instead of being represented by the difference between 381 and 29 years, or 9| years, is really not more than a year and a half. Again, the average age at death in the metropolis is 29 years, and in Sheffield 23 years ; but if the population of the metropolis were transferred to Sheffield, the average age at death would be 28 years. So that the difference of 6 years, which, according to this test of the mean age at death, marks the sanitary su- periority of London over Sheffield, dwindles, under this very obvious correction, to one year. If we apply the same correction to the several districts of the metropolis, we obtain similar results. Bethnal Green is the district in which the mean age at death is lowest, while in Kensington it attains its maximum. In Bethnal Green the mean age at death is 26, in Kensington 32. But the population of Bethnal Green transferred to Kensington, would have a mean age at death of 27 years; so that in this case also a difference of six years in favour of the more aristocratic quarter dwindles down to one year. In some cases the use of this corrective actually re- verses the position of the two populations submitted to comparison. Thus, the mean aire at death in the united parishes of St. Giles's and St. George's Bloomsbury is 28 years, and in Bethnal Green, as has just been stated, 26 ; but transfer the population of Bethnal Green to St. Giles's, and the mean age at death becomes 24 years. The application, therefore, of this correction completely alters the relative position of the two parishes, so that the parish which, when tested by the mean age at death, seemed the healthiest, proves to be the most unhealthy. Serious errors and exaggerations have also been committed in comparing the smaller districts of our large towns with each other. The meanest and most squalid districts are as naturally the resort of those who marry early, and of those who are sunk into poverty by the burden of large families of young children, as better districts are the abodes of the more prudent and least encumbered members of society. The lowest districts of the large towns of England are also the resort of that part of our population which indulges most habitually in intemperance, and in all the habits that engender poverty, misery, and disease. It is, therefore, inevitable that in comparing the worst districts with those of a somewhat better class, we should be comparing popula- tions containing a large proportion of persons liable to a high mortality for reasons other than the insalubrity of the districts themselves with those containing a smaller proportion. c. The mean age at death has also been used to test the sanitary condition of different classes of persons inhabiting the same town or town district. A very extensive series of tables, for instance, has been compiled, in which the mean age at death of the gentry, tradesmen, artisans, and paupers of the several parishes of the metropolis is represented, and used as a measure of their sanitary condition.* The parish of St. James's, Westminster, in which the class termed gentry is more likely to be appropriately named than in the poorer and less fashionable parishes, may be con- veniently taken as an example. In this parish the average age at death, children included, is 42 for gentry, 26 for tradesmen, 21 for artisans, &c, and 49 for paupers. The differ- ences are here so extraordinary, as only to admit of explanation on the supposition of a vast disproportion between the numbers living at the same ages in the several classes. If the element of age in the living is disregarded in comparing the gentry with the artisans out of the workhouse, it must equally be dis- regarded in contrasting the gentry with the paupers in the workhouse, who are drawn chiefly from the artisan class. The difference between 49 (the mean age at death of paupers), and 42 (the mean age at death of the gentry) is obviously due to the greater average age of the inmates of the workhouse, as the differ- ence between 42 (the mean age at death of the gentry), and 21 (the mean age at death of artisans), is traceable mainly, if not wholly, to the great disparity in the ages of the living members of the two classes. Unfortunately we are not yet in a condition to apply to the mean age at death of these classes of the population, the same correction which, when applied to counties, cities, and city districts, served in so striking a manner to equalize the results. The ages of the living members of the several classes of society is still an impor- tant desideratum. The tables under consider- ation also give the mean age at death of gentry, tradesmen, artisans, and paupers dying after 21 years of age. In the parish of St. James's, Westminster, the mean ages at death of these classes are 57, 51, 4G, and 58 respectively. The differences, though less considerable, are still at total variance with the results of the most accurate inquiries into the value of life of the same classes of society f, and only admit of explanation by supposing a great disparity in the ages of their living members, together with an erroneous method of se- lection and classification. (I. The mean age at death has also been employed to test the sanitary state of different * These Tables are published in the same volume (vol. vii.) of the Journal of the Statistical Society, which contains Mr. Neison's valuable essay just quoted. They form part of a paper by Mr. Chad- wick, " On the best Modes of representing accu- rately by Statistical Returns the Duration of Life, and the Pressure and Progress of the Causes of Mortality among different Classes of the Commu- nity, and amongst the Populations of different Districts and Countries." f See especially, Contributions to Vital Statistics, by F. G. P. Neison, in which the artisan class is shown to occupy a much more favourable position in the sanitary scale, than had previously been supposed.