THORAX. 1081 proves simply that there is air in the chest of different density to the external air ; and if so, there must be some impediment in the air tubes, preventing the restoration of at- mospheric equilibrium. Disease of the thoracic viscera affects the breathing movements, causing them to be more limited, or non-symmetrical, reversed, massive, interrupted, partial, quick, slow, ir- regular, or double. (a) Of limited breathing movement. — The mobility of parts when disease attacks the chest may be surprisingly drawn forth. Haller allows scarcely any mobility to the first rib; Magendie asserts that the lower ribs are immovable, because they either reasoned from the healthy body, or anatomically: but it is not uncommon in phthisical patients to see strong and well-marked respiration kept up by the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd ribs, or by the 10th, llth and 12th; — these ribs are movable, but it requires disease to bring their mo- bility forth. We are satisfied that there is a latent respiratory mobility during health, which is manifested only by disease. In disease particular parts take up ex- aggerated movements, but the sum of these movements is more limited than in health. In the earliest cognisable stage of phthisis pulmonalis the expansion of the thoracic apex is diminished ; the shoulders incline forwards and inwards, and become rounded; the spine is less erect; the apex cannot ex- pand. The mobility of the inferior ribs does not so diminish, but sometimes maintains life to the last. With an exaggerated move- ment, the respiration is frequently costal and abdominal at the same time, as if no part could afford to be unemployed. In 233 cases of phthisis pulmonalis (males) in the first stage we noticed that the breathing of 46 was costal, of 96 abdominal, and of 91 costal and abdominal. The mobility by tape measure was, instead of 3 inches and upwards, as follows - — Taule F F. — Diminished Mobility over the Nipples on 233 Phthisical Males. Difference between Inspiration Number of cases. and Expiration. ^ in. - - 3 3 _ 4- 5 1 54. H - • 13 i± 44 if - - 23 2 53 2i - - 12 8* - " 25 2% - - 1 (b) Of non-symmetrical breathing move- ments. — In advanced stages of phthisis pul- monalis non-symmetrical movements are no- ticed ; but this may exist without a cavity or effusion of fluid in the lung; or a cavity may exist with symmetrical movements (but a cavity never exists without extensive dimi- nution of mobility). Generally a cavity is at- tended with non-symmetrical movements, or a dragging up of one side of the chest; and in extreme cases there is no movement at all in the region of the cavity. That symmetrical movements may coexist with extensive disor- ganisation or solidification of one lung is con- trary to the opinion of many persons. It may be explained by the fact of our having so much spare lung. It has been found by experiment that 310 cubic inches of air could be forced into the lungs taken from a man with a healthy chest (height, 5 feet 4 inches; weight, 107 lbs.; vital capacity, 198 cubic inches), the absolute capacity of whose thorax at death, was 245 cubic inches : therefore there was spare lung for more than 100 cubic inches — a space which he could not command during life. May it not be possible that when a part of the lung is consolidated or disabled, this spare portion may come more completely into use, and allow of the symmetrical movement ? (c) Of reversed breathing movements. — A man's breathing may be costal or abdominal for a month, a week, a day, an hour, a minute, and change again, — every possible alternation may occur. This may take place with or without a cavity in the lungs, with or without phthisis pulmonalis, as if a specific motion drew in air to certain parts of the lungs to excite some local change of condition. Al- though costal respiration is maintained at a greater expense of vital force, yet we see when the vital power is fast ebbing the re- spiration is always costal, and the last breath is a deep costal inspiration followed by the last expiration. (d) Of massive breathing movements. — Massive breathing is a marked feature of the presence of emphysema in the lungs. There is a total absence of that undulating, rolling, and consecutive motion of the ribs. The breathing is always costal, though it may be conjoined with abdominal breathing, and the ribs are elevated in the mass, sometimes together with the shoulders clavicle and sca- pula. Massive costal breathing is indicative of emphysema of the lungs or pneumo- thorax. In all other forms of dyspnoea the undulating movement is more or less pre- sent, though limited. (e) Of interrupted breathing movements. — In those diseases termed " nervous," parti- cularly in young women, the breathing, espe- cially the expiration, is sometimes interrupted and jerking. This appears to be merely a functional derangement; it may sound to the ear like deficient respiration, for the intensity of the " murmur" is generally diminished, as if the jerking "eased away" the expiring air. This is sometimes the case in men. It is very seldom combined with organic disease of the lungs. (f) Of partial breathing movements. — By this we mean independent movement of cer- tain ribs, or of some two or three of the res- piratory regions. All the ribs may move as in emphysematous breathing, or none of them may move, or the lower, the upper, or the