897 TEETH. saurs. A thin compact floor of bone separates this groove, and the sockets anterior to it, from the large cavity of the ramus of the jaw ; it is pierced by bloodvessels for the supply of the pulps of the growing teeth and the vas- cular dentiparous membrane which lines the alveolar cavities. The tooth-germ is developed from the membrane covering the angle between the floor and the inner wall of the socket. It becomes in this situation completely enveloped by its capsule, and an enamel-organ is formed at the inner surface of the capsule before the young tooth penetrates the interior of the pulp-cavity of its predecessor. The matrix of the young growing tooth affects, by its pressure, the inner wall of the socket, as shown in Jig. 573, and forms for Fig. 573. Section of lower jaw, with four alveoli and teeth, of the black Alligator. itself a shallow recess : at the same time it attacks the side of the base of the contained tooth ; then, gaining a more extensive attach- ment by its basis and increased size, it pene- trates the large pulp-cavity of the previously formed tooth either by a circular or semi- circular perforation. The size of the calcified part of the tooth-matrix which has produced the corresponding absorption of the previously formed tooth on the one side, and of the alveolar process on the other, is represented in the second exposed alveolus of Jig. 573., the tooth a having been displaced and turned round to show the effects of the stimulus of the pressure. The size of the perforation in the tooth, and of the depression in the jaw, proves them to have been, in great part, caused by the soft matrix, which must have produced its effect by exciting vital action of the absorbents, and not by mere mechanical force. The resistance of the wall of the pulp-cavity having been thus overcome, the growing tooth and its matrix recede from the temporary alveolar depression, and sink into the substance of the pulp contained in the VOL. IV. cavity of the fully-formed tooth. As the new tooth grows, the pulp of the old one is re- moved ; the old tooth itself is next attacked, and the crown being undermined by the ab- sorption of the inner surface of its base, may be broken off by a slight external force, when the point of the new tooth is exposed, as in the Jig. 573. b. The new tooth disembarrasses itself of the cylindrical base of its predecessor, with which it is sheathed, by maintaining the excitement of the absorbent process so long as the cement of the old fang retains any vital connection with the periosteum of the socket; but the frail remains of the old cylinder, thus re- duced, are sometimes lifted off the socket upon the crown of the new tooth, as in Jig. 573. b, when they are speedily removed by the action of the jaws. This is, however, the only part of the process which is immediately produced by mechanical force : an attentive observation of the more important previous stages of growth, teaches that the pressure of the growing tooth operates upon the one to be displaced only through the medium of the vital absorbent action which it has excited. Most of the stages in the development and succession of the teeth of the crocodiles are described by Cuvier with his wonted clearness and accuracy ; but the mechanical explanation of the expulsion of the old tooth, which Cuvier adopts from M. Tenon, is opposed by the disproportionate smallness of the hard part of the new tooth to the vacuity in the old one, and by the fact that the matter im- pressing— viz. the uncalcified part of the walls of the tooth-matrix—is less dense than the part impressed. No sooner has the young tooth penetrated the interior of the old one, than another germ begins to be developed from the angle between the base of the young tooth and the inner alveolar process, or in the same relative position as that in which its immediate pre- decessor began to rise, and the processes of succession and displacement are carried on, uninterruptedly, throughout the long life of these cold-blooded carnivorous reptiles. From the period of exclusion from the egg, the teeth of the crocodile succeed each other in the vertical direction ; none are added from behind forwards, like the true molars in Mammalia. It follows, therefore, that the number of the teeth of the crocodile is as great when it first sees the light as when it has acquired its full size; and, owing to the rapidity of the succession, the cavity at the base of the fully-formed tooth is never con- solidated. The fossil jaws of the extinct Crocodilians demonstrate that the same law regulated the succession of the teeth, at the ancient epochs when those highly organised reptiles prevailed in greatest numbers, and under the most varied generic and specific modifications, as at the present period, when they are reduced to a single family, composed of so few and slightly varied species as to have constituted 3 M