1043 THORAX. border of the next below. They do not ac- company each other throughout the entire intercostal space. These muscles, therefore, differ from each other in two ways, in the direction of their fibres, and in the extent of their attachment, for neither set are prolonged throughout the entire length of an intercostal space. (a) Intercostalcs externi.—These have their fibres running obliquely downwards and for- wards ; they are continued throughout the whole osseous intercostal space, i. e. from the tubercles of the ribs, to where the cartilages commence ; here they terminate. Haller once noticed these fibres " continued without interruption to the sternum, filling up the in- tercartilaginous spaces."* A thin aponeurosis is prolonged from the free anterior margin of this layer, up to the sternum, This muscular layer is thicker than the internal layer. Fig. 671. represents the anterior extremity of this Fig. 671. External intercostals. — Anterior view. layer, where it terminates with the osseous part of the rib, and Jig. 672. the posterior view, commencing at the vertebra. (b) Intercostales interni. — These, as their name implies, are internal to the above layer. Their fibres are likewise oblique, and have a contrary direction, downwards and backwards crossing the former layer. They commence at the sternum, fill up the intercartilaginous spaces, and part of the interosseous spaces, and terminate at the angles of the ribs. Fig. 671. represents them commencing at the sternum, and disappearing behind the ex- ternal layer. Figs. 673. and 674. show them for the remainder of their course ; in Jig. 673. they will be seen to terminate short of the verte- bral column. A thin aponeurosis is pro- longed from their free margin backwards, to the end of the intercostal spaces. All the intercostal fibres are oblique in their direction, with reference to the spine and ster- num. The fibres of one intercostal space differ * El. Phys. torn. iii. p. 29. Fig. 672. External intercostals. — Posterior view. in their degree of obliquity relatively to those of other intercostal spaces Thus, broadly, it may Fig. 673. Internal intercostals. — Posterior view. be stated that the external intercostal fibres in- crease in the degree of their obliquity as they Fig. 674. Internal intercostals. — Anterior view. proceed from the first to the last intercostal space; and that the Internal intercostal fibres, 3x2