1281 URINE. animal. He detected it by using alum as a mordant for pieces of cloth soaked in the urine. He detected the presence of bicar- bonates of lime and magnesia, and hippurate of soda. He could not find any phosphates, nor uric acid. The urine of rabbits and guinea-pigs has an alkaline reaction, and contains alkaline and earthy carbonates. It presents no peculiar qualities. Von Bihra analysed the urine of the hare, both in summer and in winter. In December be found the urine turbid and alkaline, de- positing phosphate of magnesia. In June it was only faintly alkaline. The proportion of earthy phosphates present was more than twice as great in summer as in winter, which Simon remarks upon as probably caused by the great difference in the food of the hare during the two seasons. With respect to his examination of the urines of herbivora, Von Bihra states he obtained in most of them indications of the presence of huniic acid, or a substance closely allied to it. As regards these analyses, which are quoted from Simon's work on animal che- mistry, it would appear a matter of regret that experiments have not been made on an extended scale on the same animal, under different conditions ; more especially under variations in food, temperature, and moisture. Such form of inquiry could not fail to be of eminent service to physiology, and much light might thus be thrown on the question of diet, in respect to constitution and predis- position to disease, a subject greatly needing elucidation, notwithstanding the labour and ingenious activity which has been devoted to it during the last few years. Urine of Birds, &c. — The urine of birds is excreted from the cloaca in the form of a thin paste, which hardens by exposure. Urate of ammonia is the principal constituent. The urine of carnivorous birds, however, contains urea in considerable quantity, which distin* guishes it from that of birds feeding on vege- table substances. Chemists have also described a green colouring matter, as peculiar to the urine of carnivorous birds. The constituents of the urine of the ostrich, according to Vanquelin and Fourcroy, are — Uric acid. Sulphate of potassa. Sulphate of lime. Chloride of ammonia. Oily matter. A peculiar animal matter. Acetic acid (?) The urine of serpents is excreted in the form of a white, earthy mass. It is made up of uric acid, combined wich potassa, soda, and ammonia. Phosphate of lime is also present. Cass and Henry state that they obtained urea from the urine of serpents. That prin- ciple was sought for in vain, however, by Vanquelin and Fourcroy. Simon gives the following as the result of an analysis of the urine of a rattle-snake. He VOL. IV. operated on 100 parts, weighed, when quite dry. Free uric acid, some fat, and ex-\ kq.a tractive matters - - J Urate of ammonia - - - 31'] Urate of soda, with some chloride \ y.g of sodium J Urate of lime - - - -1*4 Phosphate of lime - - - 1'3 Dr. J. Davey examined the urine of the bull-frog (rana taurina). He found it of spe- cific gravity 1003. Urea, chloride of sodium, and a little phosphate of lime were also pre- sent. Marchand's analysis of the urine of the land-tortoise (testudo lubulata) yielded the following result,— Water 950'64 Urea 6-40 Uric acid .... 17-25 Salts and indeterminate organic \ 9^-70 matter J There was no hippuric acid in this urine. It possessed a faintly acid reaction, and is stated to have presented the appearance of pus. Ether extracted a brownish-coloured fat, having an urinous odour.* URINE IN DISEASE. With respect to the urine of the human subject, it has been shown that considerable variation occurs in health according to the modifications which may have been made in diet. The urine of the lower animals is doubt- less, to a certain extent, amenable to the same rule. We observe also striking differences in the urine of herbivora fed on similar diets, as has been noticed above in the case of the horse and the ox, both graminivorous animals anil fed nearly alike for experiment, but whose urine showed, on analysis, very marked and important differences. This variation in the result of the digestive process would appear, in such case, to depend upon the internal arrangement of the chylopoietic organs, anil should perhaps more especially be attributed to differences in the minute anatomy of the mucous secreting surfaces. Certain fixed variations, then, are to be observed in the constitution of the urine as results of differ- ence in healthy anatomy ; and so in the same way, when certain organs are affected by dis- ease, we find a set of changes occurring in the urine quite as marked in character ; and it is of especial moment to the physician that he should be able easily and accurately to appreciate them. While studying those conditions, it is however of the highest im- portance that the changes which diet, the temperature to which the body may have been exposed, the amount of moisture in the air, &c, should be considered, and that the physician should be able to separate in his mind those phenomena which are indicative * Quoted by Simon from Erdinann and Mar- chand's Journal, 1845. iv. 4. 4 N