1154- TONGUE. cavity of the mouth; and I could with diffi- cult}' introduce my little ringer between it and the upper jaw. It felt smooth and hard to the touch, and had a thick coating of viscid mucus : from the high degree of tension, the point presented a glistening appearance." (Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxviii. p. 76.) As the case advances the tongue increases still further in size, the patient can- not perform the first part of the act of deglu- tition, and the liquid food is obliged to be conveyed by some mechanism into the pha- rynx ; respiration through the mouth ceases, and that through the nares is impeded : the patient is now almost on the verge of suffoca- tion, and his distress and anxiety become extreme. Mr. Martin remarks: — "At this period respiration through the mouth was totally suspended ; and he could not breathe, even through the nostrils, but with difficulty. His countenance was flushed and anxious, the pulse was fluttering, his breathing offensive : in short, he was threatened with immediate suffocation." (Loc. cit., p. 77.) The condition of the tongue sometimes approaches gangrene. Mr. Haves, in describing a similar case at an advanced stage, observes : — "It now began to look of a dark black colour, or rather as if it had been broiled over a smoky fire ; indeed, I expected it would mortify." (Memoirs of the Medical Society of London, vol. ii. p. 193.) I am not aware that mortification has ever resulted in these cases ; neither does abscess appear to be thus produced,* which, however, may be accounted for by the fact, that these urgent cases almost always render it necessary that the organ should be freely incised on the dorsum to evacuate the distending blood, and this would prevent the formation of abscess; though in some very severe instances, where incision has not been practised, no abscess has resulted. When the inflammatory action ceases, which is immediate when the before- mentioned operation is performed, the tongue rapidly recovers, and the fever vanishes. When the tongue is incised, the quantity of blood discharged is very great. The morbid change in the tongue does not always go to the extent above described, and then milder symptoms are produced. Dr. England mentions two mild cases, in both of which the left half of the tongue alone was affected, Dr. Graves relates a severe case, also confined to the left side, in which he says the part " appeared on the verge of gan- grene." (Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 43.) De Lamalle narrates an example, in which the patient was almost suffocated in five hours from the first appearance of the malady. The tongue was more than three times its natural size; it filled the whole mouth, and protruded between the teeth. Free incisions saved the organ and the patient. Trincavellius mentions a case where it oc- * Since the above has been in type, a case occur- ring to Dr. Schneider has been published, where this form of inflammation terminated in abscess. (Casper's Wbchenschrift. No. 23.) curred in Variola ; Mr. Hayes an instance, where an individual, licking an urticarious eruption, had this effect produced to a slight extent on her tongue ; and the same thing, to a small degree, I have known occur from a person eating mussels. Collier, Taynton, Job a Mekren, Paletta, Elbuig, Frank, and Orgill, also enumerate ex- amples of this condition. Dr. Craigie has described a peculiar form of glossitis, under the name of Lingual Quinsy, which is an extension of ordinary quinsy, or tonsillitis. The portion of the tongue involved is that bounded in front by the circumvallate papillae, behind by the epi- glottis, and at the sides by the mucous mem- brane passing off upon the pharynx and rami of the lower jaw. The inflammation extends down the palatoglossus muscle from the ton- sils to the base of the tongue, and seems to involve the mucous, submucous, and muscular tissues. The parts are swollen, infiltrated, and stiff; the lower jaw cannot be depressed, and attempts at deglutition are not only diffi- cult, but the completion of the act is impos- sible. There is an abundant secretion of ropy mucus. Dr. Craigie had one fatal case, in which he found after death, that " the base of the tongue was tumid, hard, and much distended with blood and serum infiltrated into its cellular tissue, and the parts between that and the angle of the jaw were in like manner infiltrated." (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xlii. p. 26.) Mercurial glossitis. — Inflammation of the tongue, the result of the mercurial action, is but one symptom of the constitutional influ- ence of that drug. The tongue in this case becomes large, soft, painful, white and furred, and much indented by the teeth along its edges : the epithelium is soft and readily re- moved, and the surface is apt to ulcerate. The swelling is sometimes very great and rapid. Slegel and Trincavellius each mention such a case. I believe it has never caused suppuration of the organ ; but the discon- tinuance of the mercury is followed by com- plete resolution. Ulceration of the tongue.—This is the most frequent of the morbid changes occurring in the tongue, and of it there are several species and varieties. The different species may be enumerated as, I. The Dyspeptic ulceration, or that arising from disorder of the primae viae; II. Indurated non-malignant ulceration; III. Gangrenous ulceration ; and IV. Syphi- litic ulceration. Dyspeptic ulceration is met with in three principal forms. 1. Small circular ulcerations at the tip and along the edge of the tongue; 2. Severe and deeper ulcerations of the body of the tongue ; and, 3. Aphthous ulceration. The small circular ulcers of the tongue are extremely common, and have been personally experienced by almost every individual. They consist of small, circular, generally regular and well defined ulcers, which are superficial and look as if a piece of mucous membrane had been punched out; the edges are sharp and