1500 VOICE. larynx differs in structure from that of any other order of birds. They have no os transversale dividing the vocal organs, which is conse- quently a single larynx. The segments of the rings in which the lower end of the trachea terminates are consolidated together on each side. The last two of these segments are of a crescent-like or semilunar form, with its axis nearly perpendicular to the axes of the ring of the trachea; they are concave to each other, and their extremities articulated together, forming an elliptical space which is furnished with a thin vibratile membrane, as seen in fig. 917. At their junction is the joint or axis on which they revolve upon each other, and by which the tension of the mem- brane of the glottis is capable of being varied. Fig. 917. Inferior Larynx of the Parrot, a, b, tensors of the glottis; c, laxator of glottis. The glottis is formed on each side by the elastic membranes that fill the space between the semilunar bones); these membranes leave a narrow chink between them through which the air from the lungs passes, and puts them in a state of vibration whenever the bird draws them sufficiently tense ; for this pur- pose they are provided with three pairs of muscles, of which two a, b, are tensors, and one c laxator of the glottis. The trachea of birds comprehends that portion of the vocal tube which lies between the superior and inferior larynx ; its diameter and length generally depend on the length of the neck of the bird. In the common crane, the trachea after making its exit from the thorax, penetrates the sterno-tracheal space, and then making four turns upon itself in the same plane, it leaves the breast bone to follow its course into the neck : by this ar- rangement the vocal tube is greatly lengthened for the purposes of voice, and the surface of the sternum increased for the attachment of the great pectoral muscles without adding materially to the weight of the bird. The voice of the crane is very sonorous, and may be heard at a great distance. In Bewick's swan (fig. 918), the manner in which a considerable additional length is given to the trachea by its convolutions, will be evident upon an inspection of the figure. The spoonbill presents another remark- able instance of convoluted trachea, doubling twice upon itself. Other examples of con- voluted trachea are found in the Gal- linaceae ; as in the Rhynchcsa Australia, and Phasianus Purraqua. In the singing birds the trachea is a cylindrical tube; the rings which are at first cartilaginous become ossi- fied with age. The tracheal rings, which are entire in the adult state, being connected by elastic membranes, are at a sufficient distance from each other to allow of all the movements of the neck. Fig. 918. Inferior larynx and convoluted Trachea in Bewick's Swan, from Yarrell. The diameter of the trachea in singing birds is nearly uniform and proportional to its length ; but among the Palmipedes, the Mergansers, and some species of Anas, as the A. fnsca and A. rnfina, there are tracheal en- largements with additional muscles, to control their dimensions. The number of rings in the trachea of some birds is very great, sur- passing that of any other class of animals. In the Pkcenicopterus, according to Dr. Grant, there are at least 350 rings. Physiology of the Voice of Birds.— The vocal apparatus of birds consists of the lungs, larynx, and trachea, representing a wind chest, reed, and pipe. The inferior larynx has been proved by Cuvier to be the organ in whic h the sounds are generated. To ascertain this fact, he divided the trachea of a black- bird about the middle ot its length, thus pre- venting the passage of the air through the superior orifice; the bird notwithstanding con- tinued to sing, though the tones were more feeble than before. In a second experiment on the pie, performed in the same manner, the bird cried with as great intensity of tone, and with the same acuteness as before the opera- tion, for the space of about ten minutes when the blood from the wound being drawn into the larynx suffocated the animal. These experiments, however, were sufficient to prove that the sound did not arise from the superior larynx ; and when we view the structure of that organ, and, find it destitute of vocal ligaments, or any salient membranous lamina?, and bounded by cartilaginous or osseous matter, and compare it with the complex organization of the inferior larynx, we might