URETHRA. passing over the canal, and termed by him " the depressor urethrce" So also often ver- tical fibres can be distinguished arising from the back of the symphysis pubis, and analo- gous to Wilson's Muscles, in the male. Guthrie* also has given a representation of a muscle arising from the rami of the pubis, and splitting into an upper and under part, and thus completely surrounding the tube, as the muscle known by the name of " Guthrie's muscle" does in the male: this apparatus in the female can only have the effect of effect- ually closing the canal. The length of the fe- male urethra varies from an inch and a half to two inches; but its diameter is considerably greater than that of the male urethra : thus at its commencement, at the neck of the bladder, it is nearly half an inch in diameter, but it is nearly cylindrical in the remainder of its course, and does not exceed three or four lines in diameter. It is contracted at the meatus urinarius. There are few points of higher practical importance in reference to the surgery of the urinary organs of the female than the extreme dilatability of the urethra. It is well understood that, by the introduction of sponged tents or other mechanical contriv- ances, gradually increased in diameter, this canal may be so far dilated as readily to per- mit the extraction of urinary calculi of at least an inch and a half in diameter; and hence the operation of lithotomy is almost superseded by the more simple procedure of extracting the stone by dilatation. The orifice of the urethra or meatus urin- arius is situated above and in front of the entrance of the vagina, at the further end of the vestibulum, between the nympha?, and anterior to the hymen in the virgin : it is placed at the distance of an inch from the clitoris. To the eye it presents the appear- ance of a closed circular aperture, slightly raised and thickened at its under edge, with a depression in its centre. Without ocular in- spection, it may be found by carrying the fore finger below the clitoris, down along the sym- physis pubis for a short distance, when it can be distinguished by ils forming a soft semi- circular projection, and its corresponding de- pression can be readily felt. Under examina- tion with the finger the projection of the mea- tus increases as if by erection, and thus at once becomes more perceptible to the touch : the inferior lip of the meatus is continuous with the anterior mesian column of the va- gina, and contains within it some large mucous crypts ; this was formerly termed the corpus glandulosum. In order to avoid touching the clitoris, which, as a matter of delicacy, is of no slight importance, the meatus may be easily found without exposure, by carrying the finger into the vagina, along the anterior wall of which an elongated spongy swelling will be perceived ; by advancing the finger along this swelling the meatus may be readily reached. If the urethra be laid open, its mucous * Guthrie on Diseases of the Bladder, &c, pp. 47, 48. membrane is seen thrown into longitudinal plicae, with valleculas or depressions between them. Some of the plica; are larger than the rest: there is usually one large fold along the posterior wall of the canal, and one on either side ; the fold at the back part, after passing for a short distance, generally divides into two branches : it has been compared to the caput gallinaginis in the male. Besides these there are other folds, which, when the urethra is closed, dove-tail into corresponding depres- sions. The mucous membrane is of a rosy tint at the meatus, but becomes paler towards the bladder : it is copiously supplied with mucous follicles. These open generally in the depres- sions between the ruga? ; but there are some large depressions or crypts, into which nu- merous smaller follicles open, situated just within the meatus : these equal in size the blunt end of and ordinary probe ; they are imbedded in the under labium of the meatus, and, forming a considerable projection, consti- tute the corpus glandulosum of some authors. So also, in the vicinity of the commencement of the urethra, there is a collection of large lacunas visible: indeed the under part of the mucous membrane is at this part studded with small orifices of mucous crypts. These are evidently different from the ordinary lacuna of the urethra: the latter are analogous to those of the male canal, and, being situated between the longitudinal plicae, open obliquely forwards. They are the seat of a copious mucous secretion. The mucous membrane within the meatus is slightly depressed at its floor, which gives the urine a direction forwards and upwards. The whole canal is surrounded with a plexus of numerous small veins, mixed with a consi- derable quantity of elastic or contractile tis- sue (the corpus sj)ongiosum) ; hence the female urethra possesses the undoubted attributes of an erectile structure. Organization.—The organization of the fe- male urethra is analogous to that of the male: it is essentially a mucous canal, belonging to the genito-urinary division of mucous mem- branes, and is composed of a mucous layer, covered externally by a layer of contractile tissue. The mucous layer is formed of the ordinary basement membrane, covered with a dense pavement epithelium, formed of broad, oval, and conical, compressed cells. External to this is a layer of that remarkable tissue de- scribed by Kolliker as entering so extensively into the structure of the male urethra, as well as all the other mucous outlets of the body ; this is necessarily much more simple in its arrangement than the corresponding la}er of the male urethra, and is continuous with some of the longitudinal muscular fibres of the bladder. The arteries supplying the urethra are de- rived from the inferior vesicle, the uterine, and vaginal. The veins terminate in the pudic or branches of the internal iliac. The lymphatics terminate in the hypogas- tric ganglia.