THYROID GLAND. refer to the observations, so far as they go, as free from any material error. In the Skate I have found the organ described by Retzius as a salivary gland, and by Mr. Simon as a thy- roid, occupying the situation well described by the latter, and lying exactly upon the terminal division of the branchial aorta. It was of a faint reddish gray tint, and presented to the unaided eye the appearance of a conglomerate gland. No excretory duct, however, was ob- served proceeding from it. In structure it consisted of numerous vesicles aggregated to- gether. The form of these was mostly circular ; some were elongated, and many variously altered by mutual pressure. Their diameier was about ^ to JT inch (Jig. 744. A). The limiting envelope of the vesicles presented a ■Fig. 744. From thyroid of S/iate. A. Vesicle, in. in diameter. B. Several of the nuclei imbedded in diffused mottled substance. good example of homogeneous membrane. It was lined internally by a pretty thick stratum of epithelial substance, which in some instances was so abundant as almost to fill up the cavity. The epithelium consisted of nuclei and a very large quantity of rather coarse granular ma- terial, which quite obscured the nuclei them- selves (Jig. 744. B.) There were also a few granular cells, and, in the interior of many of the vesicles, imperfect prismatic or octohedral crystals could be discerned. I could not discover, among the glandular structure, any tubes resembling excretory ducts ; so that I am much inclined to believe it has no relation to the salivary organs, but belongs to the class of ductless glands. A gland, however, it assuredly is, and not a mere vaso-ganglion. Resides this body I discovered at some dis- tance behind it, just at the junction of the branchial arches anteriorly, a small light red- dish mass, which was covered in by a thin fascia, and by the mucous membrane, and could not be seen till the latter was dissected off. Its structure was almost exactly similar to that of the organ just described, con- sisting of vesicles about -^fe to TiTr inch diameter (Jig,. 745.), with a thick interior stratum of epithelium resting on a beautiful homogeneous limitary membrane. The pseu- Fig. 745. A vesicle from sublingualgland of'Skate, diam.js in. It contains abundance of nuclei and granular matter, with delicate vesicles. dobranchia, situated on the anterior wall of the spiracular canal, is manifestly of entirely different structure to the organs described. It consists of small plicae of mucous membrane, covered by a kind of paTement epithelium. In a Dog-fish (Spihax) the pseudobrancbia was very small, but distinct. 1 could discover no trace of the sublingual gland, or of the small one behind it which I found in the skate. In the cod and whiting the pseudobranchia is situated, as Mr. Simon has described it, near the upper extremity of the first branchial arch on each side. It lies in a recess which is bounded by the gill below, and above by the outer extremity of that transverse fold of mucous membrane which limits the extent of the palate. Its structure is peculiar; Mr. Simon regards it as a thyroid ; but from this opinion I feel obliged to differ. The following description is taken from examination of the organ in the Cod, but applies equally to that in the Whiting. It is a body of light red colour, semi-transparent aspect, flattened so as to present two faces, about one line and a half in thickness, and having two borders, one convex antl slightly notched, the other somewhat concave. The surface is slightly uneven or nodulated. It is enclosed in a cap- sule, through which some large vessels are seen ramifying. Its general aspect is that of ''glandular flesh," and certainly not of a mere congeries of vessels. In structure it appears to consist of parallel folds of homogeneous membrane, beneath which is spread a vascular plexus, and which are covered by an unusually developed epithelium. This epithelium appears under the form of granular cells of an oval, circular, or irregular form, not distinctly nu- cleated, and having a diameter of-..I1„ou inch. These do not appear to constitute a mere in- vestment, but to form a layer of some thick- ness, filling up the intervals between the adjacent processes or folds of homogeneous membrane. These organs, manifestly con- structed after the type of gills, evince thus a tendency to assume a glandular structure; yet I can see no sufficient reason for sup- posing them to represent the thyroid, from which they differ so entirely in structural characters. In the whiting I could detect no trace of a sublingual gland, nor of the small posterior one; but in the Eel, where the