VEIN. 1391 to contain veins, and that the venous textures become more strongly marked as the parts become more mature ; and that veins but little removed in size from capillaries, differ from them by the addition of structures exactly similar in nature to those which larger veins possess in a greater amount. The development of capillaries has been ob- served, principally, by Schwann* in the tails of young tadpoles, and the germinal mem- brane of an incubated hen"s egg, by Kollikerf, in the tails of batrachian larvae generally, and by Paget % in the foetal membranes of sheep. Their accounts, which my own observations on the tails of batrachian larvae entirely con- firm, all substantially agree. On subjecting the tail of a very young tad- pole to microscopical observation, and viewing it with an object glass of a quarter of an inch focal distance, it wilfbe seen that the vessels possess all the characteristics of very fine capil- laries, that is, they possess a delicate, perfectly homogeneous membrane, with nuclei adhering here and there to its internal surface. The two great arterial and venous trunks are elongated posteriorly, as the larvae grow, by throwing out prolongations, which, by joining the embryonic cells accumulated about the extremity of the chorda dorsalis, inoscidate with them so as to form a continuous cavity. The first lateral vessels of the tail, which have the form of simple arcs going from artery to vein, are formed by the junction of pro- longations, from the caudal artery and vein, with certain elongated or stellate cells in the substance of the tail. From these vessels, which constitute what may be called the pri- mary arches,are thrown out projections which, by inosculating in an exactly similar way with neighbouring stellate cells, form secondary capillary arches; and thus the capillary net- work continually extends itself in proportion as the tail gets longer and broader, and at the same time becomes more dense by the forma- tion of new vessels between the primitive meshes. Such are the general appearances seen in the tail of any of the batrachian larvae. These, however, Schwann does not consider so con- clusive as the appearances in the germinal membrane of a hen's egg. He says that when the germinal membrane of a hen's egg which has been subjected to thirty-six hours' incuba- tion, is placed under the microscope, and the area pellucida examined with a magnifying power of 4o0, the capillary vessels are readily distinguished in it. In some situations they are perfect, and connected with the larger vessel, some are of irregular calibre, having bulgings here and there where two or three channels meet, the intervening portions vary- ing in size from that of a fibre of yellow fibrous tis ue to the full capillary diameter, and permeable to blood or not. * Microscopical Researches, translated for the Sydenham Society, by Henry Smith. f Annales des Sciences Naturelles. August, 18J6. j Supplement to Midler's Elements of Physiology, by Drs. Baly and Kirkes. In addition to these capillaries, which form a network of channels of irregular calibre, and give off blind branches, some separate irregular corpuscles are seen which are not connected with the vascular network. These bodies send off blind processes, of various forms, in different directions ; in other words, they are stellate cells. They have a reddish- yellow colour, like that of the capillaries of bone, which circumstance alone would be suf- ficient to make it probable that they are the primary cells of capillaries in process of forma- tion; and this probability becomes a certainty when we perceive that some of these same stellate cells are already connected with the true capillaries, forming with them a common cavity. This is Schwann's description. Of its correctness I cannot speak from my own observation, but of the correctness and ex- treme truthfulness of Kolliker's account of the same process in the tails of young batra- chia I can, from my own observations, con- fidently speak : indeed he has left nothing to be added. Morbid Anatomy of Veins. Veins are subject to a variety of morbid changes, which are naturally incident to blood vessels of their particular organisation and functions, occasioning a remarkable contrast in their pathology with that of arteries. Thus veins are much more subject to diffuse inflammation than arteries, and the products of their inflammation being carried in the blood to the heart, are conveyed all over the body ; they moreover offer peculiar facilities for the introduction of morbid materials into the cir- culation, and from both these circumstances wide-spread and diffuse disease is the result— conditions which have no parallel as the conse- quence of arterial disease. Again, an injury to a vein, such as a punctured wound,is followed by- cicatrization ; and any dilatation of its tube interferes only partially with its functions; whereas in an artery, from the vigorous and pulsating character of the circulation in it, a wound is only to be healed by obliteration of the vessel, and any dilatation of it causes an aneurism — a progressive and destructive disease. From the time of Hippocrates, some of the diseases of veins—varix and haemorrhoids — have been recognised ; but it was not till John Hunter, in 1793, published his paper on the diseases of veins in the "Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge," that any light was thrown upon that most important of these diseases — phlebitis. Since then the subject has received a large share of attention at the hands of some of our most distinguished pathologists : and Hodg- son, Travers, Breschet, Bovillainl, Ribers, Ar- nott, Lee, and hosts of others, have all added their quota towards its elucidation. The diseases of veins divide themselves into phlebitis, with which may be considered the effects of wounds and ligatures; varix and