1370 VEIN. I have given it a different interpretation: I have indeed considered it as a reduplication of the fenestrated membrane, existing there in a state of great tenuity and destitute of fibrous striations. From the vena cava of the human subject I have obtained epithelium, differing far from the normal form. The specimen consisted of flat, irregular cells, with a small bright nucleus ; some cells distinct, others pale and ill defined ; some densely granular, others scarcely so at all. In Birds (Loon — Colymhw septentiionalis), I have seen the epithelium diamond-shaped, with a large, flat, bright nucleus. In Batraehia (Frog — Bona temporaria), the epithelium was large, pale, and irregular. In Fish (Cod — Gadus morrkua) the epi- thelium was large, irregular, and granular. Fenestrated membrane. — This structure, which Henle has called the " fenestrated," or " striated " membrane, is placed intermediately between the epithelium and the fibro-vascular elements of the vessels' walls, and, from this circumstance, as well as its physical proper- ties, it bears a strong resemblance to the basement or limitary membranes on the skin, the serous and mucous surfaces. This structure has been described and figured by Henle, in a manner which exactly coincides with my own observations. When a portion of the membrane is stripped off the inner surface of a vein (or artery, for it is the same in either), and examined under the microscope, it is found to consist of a thin, continuous sheet, of a pellucid, structureless membrane, to which are adherent some re- ticulated fibres, having a longitudinal direc- tion — hence it is " striated." It is also fre- quently perforated with small holes, from which circumstance it is called " fenestrated." This homogeneous membrane has the remark- able property of rolling itself up in the form of a scroll, somewhat like the elastic laminae of the cornea. According to Henle, it rolls itself in the longitudinal direction, but I have found the same tendency in the opposite course. The apertures, or fenestras, seen on the membrane, all have more or less of a cir- cular or oval form, and I have found that the number and extent of these perforations de- pend on the manipulation it has undergone. Its physical properties are peculiar ; it is crisp and somewhat elastic, and its inclination to roll up in a scroll is so great, that it is never seen in a flat form. The elasticity, which it pos- sesses, is the reason, as it seems to me, why the fenestras are universally of a rounded form ; for when any lesion is effected in it, retraction occurs all round from the injury, and thus makes the point or tine of lesion the axis of a circular or oval aperture, as the case may be. In several specimens of this tissue, in which no fenestras at first existed, I have produced them to any extent by pricking or lacerating it with needles. The fenestras in the figure were thus produced. The longitudinal striations appear to me to be some fibres of the next tunic, — the in- ternal longitudinal fibrous coat — accidentally adherent to the homogeneous membrane.* Fig. 854. septcntrionalis). a, Fenestra. (Magnified about 100 diameters.) In the accompanying drawing (fig. 854.) is represented a portion of this membrane, from the jugular vein of the red-throated diver (Colymbus septentrionalis). It was of a pale pink tint, from contact with the blood in the vessel, and, seen by transmitted light in the mi- croscope, had a slight yellow cast. It was marked by fine longitudinal threads on one surface, which projected at some spots beyond the torn edge of the membrane. Purkinje and Rauschel consider this mem- brane as similar to the middle coat of arteries. Valentin describes it as a peculiar structure- less membrane. Henle considers it as a tran- sition from epithelium to fibrous tissue, in which opinion he is supported by Schwann. The fenestrated membrane has been found on various parts of the internal surface of the arteries and veins; but the best specimens I have seen have been from the principal veins of large birds (goose, loon, gull), &c. At the * Henle has made a singular speculation concern- ing the nature of this structure: he believes it to be an intermediate stage between the epithelium and the longitudinal fibres next beneath it — that the former is converted into the latter, and that this is its intermediate condition. He believes that the epithelium becomes fused into a continuous sheet, and the nuclei absorbed, and that this subsequently breaks up into fibres, — in short, that fibrous tissue is formed from epithelium, and that, the coats of the vessels derive their density and increase from the epithelial cells secreted on their interior.