956 TERATOLOGY. a hernia. The parietal hones are sometimes present, together with flat frontal bones, and a perpendicular occipital bone, so that the summit of the skull is quite closed, with the exception of a small opening. Fig. 609. shows how the malformed cerebral substance is applied to the medulla spinalis. All the cerebral nerves are present. This form of monstrosity has in general a less brute-like aspect; the trunk is more evolved, and the whole body in general very heavy. Fourth Type.—The skullflat, more evolved, but having an opening, through which the brain protrudes as a hernia.—This is what we call a cerebral hernia {hernia cerebri, encephalocele), viz. a tumour covered with the external integu- ments arising from some part of the surface of the skull, and containing a part of the brain. It has commonly the form of a bag, appended to the posterior part of the skull, and resting on the neck. The head is never turned with the face upwards ; the ears do not rest on the shoulders ; the neck is not wanting. The summit of the skull is flat and closed, and its cavity is too small to include the brain, which for this reason is placed on its outside, and backwards. The occipital bone has the form of a vertebral arc, which surrounds the brain, lying at the outside. Fig. 610. shows the external appearance of Fig. 610. this monstrosity, Jig. 611. the structure of the skull. Fig. 611. a, frontal; b, parietal; c, occipital, bones. In many of the published observations, a collection of serous fluid accompanied the hernia cerebri, by which a hydro-encephalocele was formed. The situation of the cerebral hernia is in general on the occiput, but sometimes on both sides of the root of the nose (W. Lyon, Kelch) ; above the eye (Adams); on the forehead (Beclard, Saxtorph, Niemeyen, Bredon, Guyenot) ; on the fontanella magna (Held) ; in the parietal bone (Le Dran, Stein, Tren) ; on the glabella, between the orbits (Otto). On a survey of these various types, it ap- pears that they all belong to the same class of monstrosities. The nature of the malform- ation is in all the same, namely a defective de- velopement of the skull and of the brain. This takes place in different degrees, so as to convey us gradually from the complete want of brain to those cases in which it is nearly perfect, and differing from the natural condition only in situation. The constancy of form is very interesting in this monstrosity, so that the malformed children resemble each other nearly in every museum, and the pub- lished observations are quite accordant with the cases now occasionally occurring. This proves that the origin of the malformation cannot be accidental. The want of the neck, which is the reason why the ears rest on the shoulders and the chin on the breast, and which gives to this form of monstrosity such a pecu- liar character, is often the consequence of the want of some of the cervical vertebra; (Rathke, Haller, Otto), or of their mutual coalition (Rathke, W. Vrolik), or of their shortness (Sandifort.) As a transition to the brute form, this shortness of the neck is interest- ing, reminding us of the condition of the Cetacea. The prominence of the eyes is oc- casioned by the flatness of the orbits, and by the backward direction of their superior margin. It differs from the manner in which the eyes are prominent in children with internal hydrocephalus. A rich growth of hair is common to all the forms of acrania. Is not this, and likewise the abundance of areolar tissue, to be attributed to a vicarious nutritive function ? The frequent absence of the suprarenal glands (Otto), or at least their imperfection and smallness (Morgagni, Hewson, F. Meckel, Soemmering, W. Vrolik) in all acranial foetuses is remarkable. The capacity for persistent life after birth differs according to the different forms of this monstrosity. Acrania does not seem to in- terfere with uterine life. The children who are affected with it are all well nourished, and some of them even very large, at the moment of their birth. Nevertheless, they rarely live longer than a few hours. During this short life they offer some symptoms which are attributable to the reflex action of the nervous system ; such as, for instance, mus- cular contractions when the skin is touched, rejection by the mouth of the recently ex- pressed juice of Pelargonium tomcntosum, and the attempt to suck a finger introduced into