TONGUE. 1140 to be partly fibrous, partly granular: cer- tainly something like yellow fibrous tissue can be detected, particularly on the addition of acetic acid; but those specimens that I have examined have appeared to be more granular than fibrous, and in some cases, where there has been a fortuitous rupture of the papilla, there has been an abundant escape of a finely granular material: the exact na- ture of this granular material I have not been able to ascertain ; it is not fatty. The me- thod of termination of vessels is sufficiently conspicuous, and has been already indicated. With regard to the termination of nerves I must confess, that, after long-continued and careful search, 1 have been unable to find any thing I can construe into a looped termina- tion. I have traced the nerve for some little way into the simple papilla, and then, its out- line becoming less and less definite, it has ceased to be visible, apparently from the loss of the strong refraction of the white substance of Schwann. If I might hazard an opinion, I should say that the axis was probably de- nuded of this investment, and, thus laid bare, underwent some specific peripheral modifi- cation. In a paper by Dr. Waller, recently published in the" Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society," a method of nervous termination by open mouths is suggested : con- sidering the solid nature of the nerve-axis, this appears to be an opinion that requires either some modification, or the confirmation of re- peated and varied observations, before it can be received as certain. At present our means of examining the termination of nerves, either in the organs of sense or elsewhere, are im- perfect, and until they are less so we can hope to make but little advance in this, at present, obscure subject. Functions of the different papilla.—Three offices are to be discharged by the papillae — thev are to exercise the sense of taste, the sense of touch, and to form a suitable cloth- ing and protection to the tongue. The struc- ture of the circumvallate and fungiform pa- pillae, their shape, their position, the nature of their epithelium, all point them out as the organs that are to discharge the first-men- tioned function, and their nervous supply, which may be demonstrated with facility, makes that probability a certainty. To detail the evidence on which this conclusion is based would merely be to repeat what the reader will find given at length under the 'articles Fifth Nerve, Eighth Nerve, and Taste, to which I therefore refer him. By what pa- pillae,then, is the sense of touch exercised? I think by the conical, and by them in contradis- tinction to their non -gustatory congeners, the filiform. My reasons are, first, that the sense of touch is only possessed in any perfection by the papillae at the tip of the tongue.* Now * There can be no doubt about this fact; and it is what we might antecedently expect, because it is the most movable part, and therefore has the widest range of application; because it is the most capable of movement, and therefore the best adapted for that which is an essential condition of touch; these are conical and of the form the'most re- moved from the filiform type, that is, their epithelium is the least abundant of all the non- gustatory papilla;. Secondly, because the struc- ture of the filiform papillae is the most incompat- ible that could be devised for the possession of a sense of touch in any perfection. And, thirdly, because we do find, in fact, that the centre of the dorsum of the tongue, where the filiform papilla; exist in the greatest abundance, is the least sensitive part of any. Therefore, unless we assign the sense of touch to the gustatory papilla', which the lowness of its conditional the back of the tongue, where the gustatory papillae are so abundantly developed, seems to negative, we are driven to the conical as the only ones that can possess it. The filiform papillae remain for the third office — that of clothing and protecting the exposed dorsum of the tongue ; their pilose investment ad- mirably adapts them for this, and at the same time it imparts to the surface a certain pre- hensile power, enabling it to take hold of and move readily what is placed on it, while the backward direction of the hairs adds yet more a special facility for transmitting food towards the pharynx. Mucous glands.—These are largest and most abundant at the base of the tongue, where they occupy the space behind the circum- vallate papillae, and lie immediately beneath the surface, which they raise in nodular emi- nences. The most anterior of them form a V-shaped ridge, the counterpart of that formed by the circumvallate papillae, from which they are separated by a corresponding furrow. These structures, which are true mucous glands, analogous to the buccal and labial, are of an oval or roundish lenticular shape : in front of the epiglottis they are gradually lost. Each gland is surmounted by a distinct orifice, most conspicuous in the most posterior of them, opening into a little crypt, generally closed and collapsed, but dilatable so as to be large enough to contain a mustard-seed, and into the bottom of these crypts the minute ducts of the glands open. Some of these crypts I have found extending into long and capacious canals, branching in dif- ferent directions, and undermining the surface. I have traced some of them half or three- quarters of an inch before they have termi- nated in their blind extremities : their surface is quite smooth, and the orifices of the ducts of neighbouring glands might be seen termi- nating in different parts of it. They probably act as reservoirs, and permit some accumula- tion of the secretion, and also prevent the orifices of the glands from infarction by the matters passing over the surface. Similar glands, but smaller, are seen along the sides of the tongue, particularly near the base ; and under the tip a small aggregation of them, because we find it is the tip that we do apply to parts that we want to feel; because the tip is capa- ble of receiving a pointed form, and therefore loca- lising the impression more perfectly; and because the tip receives the most abundant supply of twigs from the fifth nerve.