TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. 938 The internal lateral ligament is a long thin slip extending from the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the neighbouring parts of the temporal bone to the fore part of the lip of the inferior dental canal. It lies behind the external pterygoid muscle, by the origin of which its cranial attachment is concealed, and it is separated from the temporo-maxillary joint by a considerable space through which pass the internal maxillary artery and vein, giving off' their middle meningeal and inferior dental branches, which indeed are conducted, the former to the foramen spinosum of the sphe- noid, the latter to the inferior dental canal, by the ligament in question. Numerous stray fibres of ligamentous tissue strengthen the synovial sacs of the temporo- maxillary joint, forming a kind of capsular ligament. That process of the cervical fascia, which is called the stylo-maxillary ligament, is gene- rally enumerated as one of the ligaments of this joint. It extends from the styloid process to the lower part of the ramus of the jaw, separating the parotid from the submaxillary gland, and affording attachment to the stylo- glossus muscle. The condyle of the lower jaw depends for the maintenance of its normal apposition to the temporal bone much more upon the masseter, temporal and pterygoid muscles than upon these small ligaments ; by these, however, its astero-posterior gliding is indifferently tethered. Muscles. — The external pterygoid-muscle, proceeding backwards and outwards from its origin, is mainly inserted into the front of the neck that supports the maxillary condyle, the upper part of it, however, is inserted into the interarticular fibro-cartilage, which thereby is drawn forward along with the condyle when ■this muscle acts. This insertion is tendinous. Motions of the jpint.— The temporo-maxil- lary joint admits of a ginglymoid motion in the vertical direction, by which the mouth is opened and shut. This motion must of ne- cessity always take place in the joints of both sides at the same instant. It also admits of a horizontal antero-posterior gliding motion, in which the joint of one side only may be mainly concerned. In the human subject the front teeth of the lower jaw, in most cases, are not ex- actly opposed to those of the upper jaw—that is, the summits of the one set are not applied to the summits of the other — in the ordinary position of the mouth, either when at rest or engaged in mastication. The lower incisor teeth are usually posterior to the upper. But when we bite with the front teeth we bring the upper and lower set into apposition by thrusting forward the lower jaw : in this act both joints are similarly concerned. We can also execute a grinding motion from side to side, and this is done by thrusting forward one condyle whilst the other merely revolves on the axis of its neck. The jaw is elevated or closed by the tem- poral, masseter, and pterygoid muscles. The pterygoid, chiefly the external, are the agents in protruding it. These latter are antagonised by the elevating and also by the depressing muscles. The chief depressor of the lower jaw is the digastric, as is clearly shown by its comparative anatomy, but all those which ex- tend from the chin to the hyoid bone are capable of, and occasionally do assist in per- forming this act. The majority of the muscular fibres that elevate the jaw arrive at their insertion into it from before backwards ; thus the masseter has a kind of twist in the arrangement of its fibres, so that those which arise most anteriorly are inserted very conspicuously furthest back, whilst the remainder proceed directly downwards or slightly forwards ; a considerable portion of those of the temporal, namely, those which arise from the anterior part of the temporal fossa, run backwards to their insertion into the coronoid process. The use of this arrangement seems, upon a careful consideration of the mechanics of the question, to be the application of the elevating or closing force in a more favourable direc- tion, not, as might seem at first sight, the protrusion of the lower jaw — that is amply effected by the pterygoideus externus. Abnormal conditions of the temporo- maxillary joint.—Accidents.— The condyle of the lower jaw can only be dislocated in one direction, namely forwards. In this accident the condyle slips forward over the inferior root of the zygoma, and is then drawn somewhat upwards within the zygomatic arch. The inter- articular cartilage is carried with it. Thisusually happens to the joints of both sides, but occa- sionally one condyle only is dislocated. It is usually produced by the action of the muscles when the mouth is very widely opened, as in yawning, or more especially in biting a very large object, such as a large apple. When both the condyles are dislocated, the lower jaw is thrust forwards and cannot be re- tracted. The mouth is widely open and the patient is unable to close it. The power of swallowing is lost, and the saliva, the secretion of which is probably increased, flows from the mouth involuntarily. Articulation is difficult, owing to the impossibility of making the labial sounds. There is a conspicuous depression beneath the zygoma just in front of the ear, and a flatness in the masseteric region. The coronoid process is much depressed, and forms a visible protuberance beneath the zygoma, and, as first observed by Mr. Adams of Dub- lin, there is a prominence in the temporal re- gion between the eyebrow and the ear, pro- duced by the posterior fibres of the temporal muscle being pushed up by the condyle in its new position. If this dislocation remains unreduced, the parts, as in most other dislocations, gradually accommodate themselves to their new position, so that the pow er of articulation and deglu- tition is re-acquired, the mouth can be closed, and a considerable amount of motion is re- gained, but the chin remains abnormally thrust forwards, and there is always a depression in the position normally occupied by the con- dyle.