1144 TONGUE. sitions, constitute its possession, or any oral process, to which no other name can be assigned, is called a tongue. But when we enter the Vertebrata we find an organ of characteristic structure, conforming to a general type, pos- sessing many common characters, of a form whose varieties are not so great as to prevent its being the name of a particular shape, and always constituted of those three systems previously enumerated as essential to the tongue of Vertebrata. I shall first consider the comparative anatomy of the bony system of the tongue in all Vertebrata, and then briefly refer to some of the principal characters of the organ itself in the four classes into which that subkingdom is divided. Hyoid apparatus. — The comparative ana- tomy of the hyoid apparatus is a subject of high interest, as it enables us, by its reflected light, to read successfully the true nature and value of the different elements of the structure as met with in man and other mammalia. It shows us, with the certainty of a demonstra- tion, and the contrariety almost of a paradox, that the hyoid bone in man, which we are ac- customed to look upon as a single bone whose dismemberment depends merely on late ossi- fication, is, in reality, a composite structure — a contribution from two distinct systems of bones ; that while the body and lesser cornaa form part of the true endoskeleton, and are congeneric with the bony framework of the trunk and limbs, the greater corn.ua form part of the visceral or splanchnd-skeleton, and are congeneric with the maxilliform supports of the teeth of the stomach of the lobster, or the bony pieces situated in the auriculo-ventricular ring, in the hearts of ruminants, or with other similar structures ; and that, as we must look upon these in regard to the function they sub- serve, as respectively digestive and circulator?/ bones, so we must regard the greater cornua of the hyoid as respiratory. To prove the truth of this proposition, it will be necessary to examine the state of the hyoid apparatus in water-breathing animals, and to connect its condition as found in these with what we find it in air-breathers, by tra- cing the modifications which its different parts undergo in those animals, part of whose ex- istence is destined to the respiration of water, and part to that of air ; we shall thus gain a clear insight into their homologies, and be able to refer part to part without the chance of fallacy, inasmuch as the link of their con- nection is lodged not in different individuals, but in different parts of the life of one. I shall describe it, 1st., in fish. Professor Owen has shown that the different segments of the true hyoid arch are so many elements of the inverted or haemal arch of the third cranial vertebra. The centre of this arch in fishes ( fig. 760. A) is formed by four small, subcubical bones, the basi-hyals (b '//) (two only are represented in the figure, being seen in profile), from the sides of which extend upwards, backwards, and outwards, two long and stout cylindrical pieces, the cerato-hyals (c h) ; the summit of each of these is surmounted by a small trian- gular piece, the epi-hyal (ep li), and the arch thus constituted is suspended on each side, to the base of the skull, by a small, slender ossicle, the stylo-hyal (st li), which may be considered either as the entire proximal piece of the hyoid arch, or a dismemberment of that piece, according as the posterior division of the epitympanic, to which it is attached, is looked upon as the displaced proximal piece of the next arch in advance, the tym- pano-mandibular, or as itself the proximal element of the hyoid. This completes the hyoid arch: in most fishes, however, there are two more bones attached to the centre of the apparatus, one stiliform, projecting forwards, appended to the anterior surface of the median symphysis of the basi-hyals, the glosso-hyal (g h), the true lingual or tongue-bone; the other, the uro-hyal (u li), a vertically-expanded, triangular piece, extending backwards from the posterior surface of the basi-hyals. There are generally appended to the posterior and lateral surface of the cerato-hyals and epihyals a series of slender, slightly curved rays, varying in number from three to thirty, but generally about seven, as in the cod (Gadus Morrhua) (fig. 760. A) ; their office is to sup- port the membrane that covers in the branchial chamber, whence they are called branchio- stegals (b,b). Immediately behind the hyoidean arch, we meet with a system of arches, the branchial, whose office is to support the gills, and whose structure, position, development, and con- nections prove them to have no relation with the true skeleton : they are generally five in number; the four anterior being branchial, the last, which is dentigerous and guards the gullet, pharyngeal. Each arch rises laterally from a median chain of ossicles attached to the basi-hyal, or uro-hyal when ossified, and consists of a short inferior piece, the hypo- branchial, surmounted by a long, curved piece, the cerato-branchial, bending first outwards and upwards, then forwards and inwards, under the base of the cranium. Now, these arches are what were just now stated to be homologous with the posterior or greater cornua of the hyoid apparatus, in all vertebrate forms, whenever they exist; that they are so, will best be shown by tracing the modifica- tions they undergo in the metamorphoses of the anourous batrachians. Fig. 760. B, 1. re- presents the hyoid and branchial apparatus in the water-breathing tadpole; B, 2, where the same animal has become the air-breathing frog. In the full-gilled tadpole (B, 1), a simple basi-hyal (b h) supports laterally two cerato- hyals (c h), and posteriorly two short hypo- branchials (h b), to each of which are attached four cerato-branchials (c b). The second stage is marked by the divergence and growth of the extremities of the hypo-branchials and the pro- gressive absorption of the cerato-branchials. At the third stage, the cerato-branchials have disappeared, and the hypo-branchials have assumed the character of true greater hyoidean cornua (B, 2, h b). In the fourth stage they