1520 WRIST-JOINT (A BNORMAL ANATOMV). extended than before; the pain disappears, and in about a month after the fracture has occured, if judicious treatment be adopted, the union of the fragments is so perfect, that the passive motion to restore the joints to their primitive suppleness may be commenced. Notwithstanding, therefore, the opinions of Dupuytren, Diday, &t\, &c, we think that, as a general rule, in the case of Colles' fracture the prognosis is favourable. It ma)' be otherwise, if the styloid process of the radius be elevated much above its natural level, if the hand has quitted, par- tially, the lower end of the ulna, so as to be carried " par un mouvement de totalite " outwards, and if the case has not been early recognised. Anatomical characters of the Fracture — On dissection, it will be found that the hard swelling which occupies the back part of the hand and wrist, is caused by the displacement backwards of the lower fragment of the radius, and the carpus carried with it in this direction. As a consequence of the altered direction of the radius, we find that the aspect of the carpal articular surface of this bone is altered, and instead of being directed, as it normally is *, downwards and somewhat forwards, it is now directed downwards and backwards {fig. 933.) ; the carpus and metacarpus retaining Fie. 933. their connexion with the broken radius must always thus follow this bone in its derange- ments, and cause the characteristic dorsal convexity above alluded to. The change of direction of the articular surface of the radius is well shown by measuring the length of the broken radius in these cases, both on the palmar and dorsal aspect of this bone longi- tudinally, when it will be found that in Colics' fracture, the posterior measurement is several lines less than the anterior, which is exactly the reverse of what this measurement normally should be. We dwell upon this abnormal ob'iquity of the lower articular surface of the radius, for in the treatment of this injury it should be our principal aim to remedy this obliquity, and, as it were, reverse it, and thus make the aspect of the articular surface look as it should normally do, downwards and forwards. The change of direction of the articular surface is caused by the extensor muscles of the carpus, and of the thumb, and by their tendons, which pass along the posterior surface of the radius in sheaths, firmly con- nected with the inferior extremity of this bone, to which deviation in the direction of the lower fragment the action of the supinator longus muscle and its tendons may also some- what contribute. Professor Smith, who has investigated labo- riously the anatomy of the bones in this injury, says he has discovered nothing to invalidate the truth of the general proposition first main- tained by Voillemier, namely, that when the radius is broken within an inch of its lower extremity, the direction of the fracture is usually transverse; but we find that he differs entirely from this last-named author upon the doctrine of the fracture of the radius in ques- tion, being one by impaction. It is very true, he says, that in every instance of the ordinary fracture of the carpal extremity of the ratlins, which he had an opportunity of examining anatomically long after the occurrence of the injury, he found upon making a section of the bone, from before backwards, a line of com- pact tissue continuous with the posterior wall of the shaft, extending to a greater or less dis- tance into the reticular texture of the lower fragment; but he cannot agree with YToillemier, that this appearance affords evidence of im- paction of the upper fragment into the lower. In the only recent specimen Mr. Smith had an opportunity of examining, the lower fragment was displaced backwards, the superior pro- jecting one-eighth of an inch in front of it. There was no impaction whatever in this re- cent specimen, of either fragment into the other, nor any line of compact structure pene- trating the reticular tissue of the lower frag- ment. If the doctrine of impaction were true, the shortening of the radius in cases of fracture of its lower extremity, should be much greater than it ever is, for there is a second cause of shortening in operation, i. e. the alteration in the direction of the articulating surface, in consequence of which the posterior surface of the radius (naturally longer than the anterior) becomes the shorter of the two. Now, if to the degree of shortening produced by this cause we add that arising from impaction, we should have an amount of shortening much greater than ever occurs in the case of Colles' fracture ; indeed, alter adducing other argu- ments against the theory of Voillemier, as to this being a case of fracture by "penetration" Mr. Smith further remarks, that as long as the ulna remains unbroken and the ligamentous connexion between the two bones uninjured, it is scarcely possible for either fragment to * We always take it as understood that the patient is iu the erect posture.