VESICULA PP-.OSTATICA. 1422 verumontanum, and possesses a flask-shaped cavity of about one inch in depth. The open- ing at the lower declivity of the verumon- tanum is a fissure which has the shape of a horse-shoe curved forwards, while a triangular papilla, which arises from its posterior mar- gin projects into it. In the Monodon the latter is farther separated by a linear fissure. In a dolphin (Delphinus area ?) which I ex- amined, the anterior extremity of this papilla was united with the opposite margin ; so that the opening was divided into two fissures converging superiorly. In the same way Leydig observed it in Delphinus phocana; while in another individual of the same species I have met with the condition previously de- scribed. Possibly in younger individuals of the Cetacea the Weberian organ has a yet greater development. At least Eschricht, who was not aware of the structure just described, states* that, in a male embryo of the Plerobakcna, the inferior extremity of both vasa deferentia was connected with a transverse fold, of which the free margins exhibited the appearance of an obliterated cord. From its situation this would about correspond to the lateral horns of an uterus. II. Physiology. — We, now, proceed to enquire what is the use of this structure, the occurrence and variable forms of which we have hitherto been treating of. It is a general law that the physiological import of an organ stands in a direct relation with its anatomical development. If we regard the Weberian organ in this point of view, we shall soon be convinced, from its absence in many Mam- malia, and from the varieties of Us develop- ment in particular individuals, that its in- fluence upon life cannot be very important. When Morgagni first discovered the human Weberian organ, he thought that it was con- nected with the prostate. Its situation made him think it possible that some tubes of the prostate emptied themselves into it, and that it was in a certain manner, like the gall- bladder, a saccular dilatation of the excretory duct of the prostate. But anatomical research soon convinced him that his conjecture was necessarily erroneous. A communication be- tween the prostate and the Weberian organ never exists, and is indeed rendered impossible by an arrangement like that which obtains in the horse, the goat, and the beaver. According to other views, the Weberian organ has the function of a seminal receptacle. Tims it has received the name of a vesicula seminalis. But we know how prone the earlier anatomists were to this designation, and how they indicated in this manner all those accessories of the male genitals of Mammalia which opened near, or together with, the ejaeulatory duets, without any closer acquaintance with their structure and import. More recent researches f have corrected us on this point. They have shown us that the * TJntersuchungen iiber die nordischen Wallthiere, Liepzig, 1849, S. 102. f Leydig, 1. c. dependent structures known as the dual se- minal vesicles of the vasa deferentia almost always possess a glandular texture, and never, or only occasionally (as in man), contain spermatozoa. It is true that the flask-shaped seminal vesicles of the horse and ass are genuine reservoirs of sperm, ■— as we may conclude from the fact, that the vasa defe- rentia open into them, — but as a rule exactly the reverse relation obtains. But the same anatomical arrangement as that of the vesicula seminalis in the horse may be seen in the Weberian organ* of the hare previously mentioned. On this ground only one might conclude a similar functional import. And the microscope really brings proof that the contents of the Weberian organ are, in this instance, sperm. But the connection of the excretory duct and the Weberian organ is limited to the hare and lagomys. In all the other Mammalia the two structures open near to each other without any communication. Now if, in spite of this, the Weberian organ has the function of a seminal receptacle, this can only happen by the sperm, which has been previously poured into the urethra, being discharged through the lower aperture of the Weberian organ into its interior. We will not quite deny the possibility of such an occurrence; but the probability of it seems but small. At any rate a contraction of the muscular layer around the urethra would be necessary thereto; but, without offer- ing any new hypothesis, it would scarcely be possible to perceive why the sperm should thus be sent upwards rather than downwards. The verumontanum alone would not be able to prevent this. Such considerations would be silenced by direct observation; but hitherto no one has ever met with real semen in the Weberian organ, except in the hare. Morgagni states, that on pressing the human vesiculag seminales, he has seen sperm exude from the prostatic utricle. But the correctness of this state- ment is rendered very doubtful by the fact, that the examination was made at a time when the accurate diagnosis of semen was not yet understood. A fluid may certainly have exuded from the Webe'ian organ, but that it was sperm is very doubtful. It might easily form the contents of the Weberian organ, where, as is sometimes the case, this has an abnormal communication with one or the other vas deferens. I will not bring forward further arguments against the import of the Weberian organ as a seminal vesicle, such as its little capacity in many instances, &c. They would only prove that such a function is sometimes impossible. A third theory of the function of the vesi- cula prostatica has been lately suggested by Weber. According to this view it is a kind of valvular ventricle, by which the urine * As has been also remarked by Leydig. II. Meckel, on a priori grounds, wrongly denies this connection in the hare.