1026 THORAX. the inferior border is more thin and sharp, particularly in the middle third, or body, of the bone. This thin or blade-like appearance is caused by a groove on its inner aspect termed sulcus costalis, which is commonly said to be for the lodgment of the intercostal vessels : this border also gives attachment to the intercostal muscles. The borders are irregular in their direction corresponding with the shape of the rib; which we shall presently notice. Fig. 663. a Fourth rib. Extremities. — (a) Posterior or vertebral extremity, {fig. 663. c).— This is rougher and somewhat thicker than the other parts of the rib, and is hence denominated its head (capitulum costa;). It presents, except in in- stances to be presently stated two articular facets, a superior and an inferior one, sepa- rated by a well-defined ridge. Each of these facets articulates with a corresponding small surface on the bodies of two vertebrae, the ridge just mentioned corresponding with the intervertebral substance. The head of the rib is supported by a narrow round part, somewhat constricted — the neck { fig. 663. /). This is flattened from before backwards and is the weakest part of the bone. Behind the neck there are some inequalities, which correspond to the trans- verse process of the dorsal vertebra below. Externally to the neck is an eminence known as the tubercle of the rib (tuberos- ity, tuberculum costce, fig. 663. g), which is smooth in one part for its articulation with the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebra; to which the head is connected, and rough in the other, which is posterior, and in some ribs superior to the above, for the inser- tion of the posterior costo-transverse liga- ment. The tubercles are most prominent in the four or five superior ribs. Anterior to the tubercle the rib suddenly bends forwards, leaving this part the most convex, making what is termed its angle, {fig. 663. //) The interval which separates the tuberosity from the angle, is the thickest, roundest, and strongest part of the bone. (b) Anterior, or sternal extremity {fig. 663. (•/). •—■ The anterior extremity of the ribs is broad, flat, and deeply hollowed out at its tip into an oval pit, into which is implanted the costal cartilage. This extremity of the rib is broader and thicker than it is an inch more posteriori}'. Body. — This may be described as that part intervening between the angle and the anterior extremity. We have stated that the posterior end is more round than the anterior ; the body, therefore, may be considered as of a transition form, passing from the cylindrical to the flat, blade-like, shape as it approaches towards the sternum. Curve. — The curve which the ribs follow is very irregular, and therefore not easy to describe. No doubt they are of the form best adapted to admit of a great increase of thoracic capacity at the expense of a remark- ably small movement. They appear to encom- pass the thorax in a somewhat spiral manner (see dark lines figs. 682 and 683.) ; to accom- plish which they have three curves, one the common general arch or bend of the bone ; the others the twist of the edges near the extremities termed the curve of torsion. (A) Arch or general bend of the ribs. — This is the most remarkable feature of a rib. What- ever be the curve of the 1st rib, it may be said that each inferior rib describes a curve " one size" larger ; so that one rib can be laid close within the other, like hoops of gradually increasing sizes. Two distinct curves will then be seen. It will be ob- served that the part extending between the head and the angle describes a larger cir- cle than the angle itself, which as the name im- plies, is the most acute turn in the bone. More anterior to this, the curve becomes remarkably large ; which Haller has so ex- pressively described as representing the tan- gent to the posterior curve. In connexion with the general curve of the rib should be noticed two linear measurements, viz., the chord and the versed sine. In fig. 604. is given Fig. 664. B 1> A C Second rib. the 2nd rib ; the line a b is the chord, and d c the versed sine, or a line extending from the chord to the most prominent part of the bend of the bone. The general curve regulates the length of the versed sine. This curve of the rib gives the sides of the chest a power of enlarging,— a lateral mobility, — according to the length of the versed sine, and quite distinct from the antero-posterior enlargement, which is according to the length of the chord. The ribs do not increase the lateral dimensions of the thorax by abduction, but solely by their rotation upon the line a b (B) Curves of torsion of the ribs.—If we take