1147 TONGUE. under the flattened cartilaginous plate of the body of the hyoid bone, over the anterior bor- der of which they are reflected as over a pul- ley, where, coming in contact with the under surface of the last-mentioned muscles, they curve backwards, radiate in a fan-like manner, and form the under of the two muscular layers. This is the position in a state of rest, the hyo- glossus lying under the genioglossus, and the extremity of the tongue pointing down the throat in contact with the fauces, and forming a plug with which to close the posterior nares, and prevent the regress of air every time it is swallowed. But when the animal would seize its prey, the position of the tongue is sud- denly reversed; the genioglossus contracts, and moving on its genial attachment as on a centre, the tongue is thrown forwards, the ge- nioglossus now being below, the hyoglossus above. The apex of the tongue having come in contact with the prey to be seized, and se- cured it by its viscid secretion, the organ is instantly retracted and restored to its original position by the contraction of the hyoglossus. In many of the batrachians (as in the Triton) the tongue is fixed in its entire extent, and is of very various shapes, oblong, rhomboidal, heart-shaped, &c, affording generic and spe- cific distinctions, of which zoologists have availed themselves in classification. The tongues of Batrachia are invariably soft, and, in some of them, as the frog, covered with well-developed papillae, containing all the es- sential elements of organs of taste and touch ; that they are the seat of an acute sense of taste is, however, highly improbable, not from any thing in their structure, but from the fact that these animals swallow their prey whole, without any subdivision, frequently alive, bolt- ing it as soon as seized. b. Ophidia.—In the ophidians the tongue is very much elongated, straight, flat or cylin- drical, fleshy, highly protractile, and deeply cleft at the apex into two tapering points which are in a state of constant vibration when the tongue is protruded. These points are the extremities of two muscular cylinders, which form the substance of the tongue, and by their close apposition constitute that part of it that seems to be undivided : they may be traced a long way down in front of the tra- chea. When the mouth is opened the tongue very frequently cannot be seen, from its being drawn within a sheath which contains it, the orifice of which is placed in front of the aper- ture of the glottis. From this sheath, and from the mouth, it is being constantly pro- jected, with a sort of vibratile darting move- ment, and, from a deficiency in the plates at the symphysis of the jaws, it can be protruded from the mouth without the jaws being sepa- rated : the character of this movement, and the pointed slender shape of the tongue, have given rise to the vulgar belief that it is the animal's weapon of offence, a sort of dart con- taining the poison that it instils into the wounds it inflicts. From the nature of the food of this order, from the disposition of the parts of the mouth, and from the short so- journ that the food makes in it, the perception of savours is probably very slight. c. Chelonia.—In Chelonia the tongue is not elongable, and its muscular structure is very simple, consisting only of two pair of muscles, the genioglossus and hyoglossus. In the tur- tles the surface is smooth ; in most of the tortoises it is clothed with very large and well- developed papilla;, long, soft, and flexible, arranged with great regularity in a close pile: the structure of these papillae, together with the masticatory apparatus possessed by these animals, woidd imply their possession of a true sense of taste. d. Sauria.—Among the saurians we find in the Crocodile a fixed tongue projecting so little from the floor of the mouth, that Aris- totle, as has been stated, described it as want- ing; it is covered with a coriaceous integu- ment, and is remarkable chiefly for a valve-like process at its base, formed by a reduplication of the integument over the vertical ridge of the body of the hyoid bone, which, at the will of the animal, is capable of being applied to a similar one descending from the palate, and shutting off the mouth from the posterior nares and larynx, so that the animal can breathe when its mouth is under the water or engaged with its prey, and its nostrils only above the surface. In the Lizard we find a tongue, in shape very much like that of the Ophidians. In the Chameleon we find an apparatus which, for its remarkable structure and powers, has always excited the attention and curiosity of zootomisls : Perrault, Hunter, Cuvier, Vallis- nieri, Vrolick, Houston, Milne Edwards, Spittal, Duvernoy, have all given their con- tributions to the subject; the connection of the mechanism with the resulting phenomena, as given by these authors, has been very di- verse, and all, in the opinion of Bibron, un- satisfactory. " It is easy," says this author*, " to conceive and explain a part of these movements, by the structure of this tongue in the chameleons, because the hyoid bone and the muscles have been perfectly described, and because it is easy to isolate them by dis- section ; yet, by the very aid of this anatomy we perceive that the movements which this mechanism should effect would not suffice for the production of such an excessive elongation, that the animal, without using any violent exer- tion, can lance from its mouth, by a sort of ex- piation, a fleshy pipe of a length nearly equal to that of its whole trunk,and that it can retract it again within its throat with the same swiftness, and without one's perceiving any apparent movement in the rest of its body." The dif- ficulty that Bibron felt was that of accounting for the very great intrinsic elongation of the tongue, and it appears to me to be a difficulty that exists; various authors account for it variously; in my own dissections I have not met clear evidence of anything that satisfac- torily explains it to me. I shall first describe the tongue itself, and then the hyoidean appa- * Erpe'tologie Ge'ne'rale, ou Histoire Naturelle complete des Reptiles, Paris, 1836, t. iii. p. 174.