1166 TOUCH. sels; and these, forming loops whose con- vexity lies in the summit of the papilla, re- unite into venous radicles, which discharge their blood into the venous plexus of the cutis. " The vascularity of the papillae," as Messrs. Todd and Bowman correctly remark, (loc. cit.~), " is such, that their presence and relative size may be determined simply by the depth of the colour imparted to the skin by a good injection of its vessels ; the vascularity of the integument is, therefore, in general terms, proportioned to its perfection as an organ of touch." With regard to the nervous supply of these papillae, however, it is less easy to speak with confidence. It is derived, like the sanguiferous, from the plexus in the substance of the cutis, lying parallel to the surface ; the tubular fibres ascend, to all ap- pearance singly, from this plexus into the papillae ; but their mode of termination or return are not distinguishable with certainty. The following are the results of the in- quiries of Messrs. Todd and Bowman on this point. " In regard to the presence of nerves in the papilla? themselves, we can affirm that we have distinctly traced solitary tubules ascending among the other tissues of the papillae about half-way to their summits, but then becoming lost to sight, either by simply ending, or else by losing the white substance of Schwann, which alone enables us to dis- tinguish them in such situations from other textures We have in numerous in- stances failed to detect any nerves at all within the papillae, when such were plainly visible at their base, and when, consequently, the che- mical agent employed could scarcely have destroyed their characteristic structure had they been present. We incline to the belief that the tubules, either entirely or in great measure, lose the white substance when within the papillae."* With these statements, so far as they go, the writer's own observa- tions are in entire accordance ; but he thinks that from the appearances presented by sec- tions examined by reflected instead of by transmitted light, it may be inferred that the nervous tubules in the tactile papillae undergo a change somewhat similar to that which is said by Wagner to take place in the nervous tubuli of muscle ; namely, that whilst the white substance of Schwann is not traceable beyond a certain point, the central axis is continued further, and that this breaks up into minuter fibrillae, which form loops, like those of the capillary blood vessels, returning into the tubular fibre itself. In the lower animals, as in man, it may be observed that the papillary structure is espe- cially developed on those parts of the tegu- mentary surface which arc especially endowed with tactile sensibility, and the impressions received through which are of important use in finding the movements of the instruments of locomotion. Thus in the quadrumana generally, both the hands and feet are thickly set with papillae; and in those which have a * Op. cit. p. 412. prehensile tail, the surface of this organ pos- sesses them in abundance. In the carnivorous and herbivorous mammalia, whose extremi- ties are furnished with claws or encased in hoofs, we find the lips and the parts sur- rounding the nostrils to be the chief seat of tactile sensibility, and to be copiously furnished with papillae ; this is especially the case with those which have the lips or nos- trils prolonged into a snout or proboscis, as in the pig, the rhinoceros, the tapir, and the elephant. In the mole, too, the papillary structure is remarkably developed at the ex- tremity of the snout. The only part of the skin of birds on which tactile papillae have been discovered is on the under surface of the toes, and on the web of the palmipedes, where they obviously receive impressions, which guide the prehensile and other move- ments of the feet. It is probable, however, that the very sensitive skin which covers the greater part of the mandibles in the duck tribe, is furnished with papillae; the tactile impressions received through this part, when the bill is plunged into mud &c, being the chief means by which the presence of food is discovered. In many lizards a papillary struc- ture is found on the under surface of the toes ; and in the chameleon it exists, also, on the integuments of its prehensile tail. In the soft skinned batrachia, an imperfect papillary structure is more extensively diffused over the surface; but on the thumb of the male frog, and probably on that of other batrachia, there is an extraordinary development of pa- pillary tissue at the season of sexual excite- ment, large papillae being formed all over it. This organisation is obviously connected with the extraordinary prehensile propensity which is then displayed by the animal, and which enables him to keep the female in his grasp during the whole period of the discharge of the ova, in a manner which no voluntary effort could effect. In serpents and chelonians, no papillary apparatus has yet been detected ; and in fishes and invertebrata its presence has not been ascertained, although it would ap- pear that certain parts, especially the tenta- cula around the oral orifice, are endowed with a high degree of tactile sensibility.* But it is not only on the tegumentary sur- face of the exterior of the body, that tactile sensibility is particularly acute ; nor is the pa- pillary apparatus restricted to it alone. In the tongue of man, we find the sense of touch remarkably developed, especially at its tip ; and of the papillae with which its surface is beset, it is probable that some are the instru- ments of tactile sensibility ; whilst others minister to the gustative sense. (See Taste.) So it is probable that in all animals which have a soft fleshy tongue, furnished with pa- pillae, and serving as the organ of taste, this organ is the instrumentof tactilesensibility also. * The movements of these organs, or such as are excited through contact with them, can scarcely be in themselves regai'ded as a sufficient indication of their tactile sensibility, as they may be purely reflex, without involving consciousness of the impression.