Cookery Books, etc. Price 5s. NEW FAMILY COOKERY BOOK. PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. By E. Duret, ex-Manager of St. James's Hall Restaurant. Containing over 800 Original Recipes. In crown 8vo, cloth gilt. “This most valuable culinary work will occupy a place entirely distinct and superior to the ordinarily bulky collection of recipes usually placed in the hands of the public. The writer is a caterer of vast experience ; and the advantages and special features of the new work will be at once manifest to all who use it and try to approach perfection in this necessary art.”—Lady's Pictorial. Price 3s. 6d. In crown 8vo, half-bound, gilt, with additional Coloured Illustrations. Price 2s. 6d. In crown 8vo, cloth gilt extra. WARNE’S EVERYDAY COOKERY. With full details of all Requirements. Compiled and Edited by Mary Jewry. Containing nearly 2,000 Receipts and Coloured Illustrations by Kronheim. The Receipts in this volume are chiefly intended for persons of moderate income though amongst them will be found some few which are expensive and elaborate. The Cheapest Cookery Book Published. Price Is. (id. Price Is. Half-bound, cloth. In large crown 8w, cloth. WARNE’S MODEL COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING BOOK. Containing Complete Instructions in Household Management. 800 Receipts, and Coloured Illustrations of Fifty Dishes. “ This book is one of the best and handiest of all the cheap cookery books we have come across. The receipts given are all of the most useful description, and the full index at the end makes the work easy for reference.”—Caterer. Price 2d. Price Id. Cloth. Sewed. V/ARNE’S COOKERY BOOK FOR THE MILLION. With upwards of 200 Useful and Practical Receipts. In square 16mo, 61 Pages. DOMESTIC MANUALS. Price 2s. 6d. each. In crown 8vo, cloth gilt. THE HOUSEHOLD HANDY BOOK. A Gathering of Useful Information in Household Matters, Taste, Duties, Study, &c. With Practical Illustrations. Compiled and Edited by Mrs. Valentine. “ Useful advice or every possible subject is here given from the most homely needs of daily life to the mental culture so many desire and cannot easily obtain.” BEST OF EVERYTHING. By the Author of “Enquire Within.” 1,800 Useful Articles on how to obtain “ The Best of Everything,” with a - Special Calendar for the Cook and Gardener for each month. “ In the collection of the varied and useful matter contained in this work, the editor has been assisted by several writers, professional and amateur; and the receipts for medical remedies have been entirely written by a regularly qualified practitioner. The whole forms a volume.of the greatest value and utility.