VII. TRUNK. Sp.ve Ph-e 213.-On tUe vertebrx and joi«(s of ibe spine-Me- 7oI su. aen.a.u. .hieb proved fa.al-Effec. of fracu-es lid dis oca.ion.-The.e injunc. se.do. ndn.U of rel.e , «ben bo are vio.ent-^Yby .be .u.c.es of the spine .honld be stnd.ed- action on the vertebra. co.nn,n_Distor.ions of -he .p.ne- C.„.es_Par.icu,ar opinions-On the .u.Ces as the ".en.s of ce U a lateral incurva.ious_Trealn>ent founded on th.s .uppos,.>o„->ece^ sit, of forming an accurate diagnosis of curvature, as no part.cula. practice is applicable in all cases. Neck Page aai—Anatcmy exceedingly complicated-Why it should be well studied-Relation of the internal to the extern., parts -Superficial parts of the neck-Bleeding from the external jugular vein-Why preferable in many respects to venesection to any other part-Deep parts of the neck-Connection vvith the carotid artery- Practical Poin.s-Anenrism-Treatment-Old operation for th.s disease-Why abandoned-New operation-Its efTecls-Necess-ty for inquiring into the anastomosing vessels before the operation is deter- Jned on-Ar.eries that may safely be.secured-Case in wh.ch the aorta was tied-Case in >vhich the arteria iunominata was t.ed-^o reason, judging from experiment, why this operation might t.ot sue ceed-Parts concerned in the operation of tying the carotid-Cucu- latiott afterwards-Necessary cautions-Anatomy of the angle and base of the jaw-Anatomy of the central part of the „eck-Broncho- cele-Case in which the carotid arteries were displaced by the tumour-Nature of bronchocele-Most probably enlalle^ on children by their parents-Remedies-Practicability of extirpating the gland- Objection-How removed-Necessary steps in the operafon-Other disea.es which may be confounded with bronchocele-How -.t may be mistaken for aneurism-Circumstances requiring an opening to be made into the aerial passage-Laryngotomy-In what cases the best operation-Tracheotomy-Ulustrations of its being preferable m other ca«es-Laryngo-traoheotomy-Laryngotomy the most simple and safe operation-Why ?-Cases of cynanohe laryngea-ffidema glottid.s, 3 A