11 EXPLANATORY LESSONS in soda until this ceases, when the reaction should be neutral. Test it with litmus-paper. If it turns blue litmus-paper red, it is acid; if red litmus-paper blue, it is alkaline. Add acid or soda, whichever is required, until there is no change produced in either kind of litmus-paper. The results of this experiment are similar to those in the first one, namely, carbonic acid and a salt. In this case the salt is sodium chlorid or common salt, which is in solution in the liquid. Evaporate the water, when salt crystals will be found.i Oxid of Iron. A piece of iron when exposed to the weather becomes covered with a brownish-yellow coating, which does not look at all like the original metal. If left long enough it will wholly disappear, being completely changed into the yel- lowish substance, which is oxid of iron, a compound of oxy- gen and iron, commonly called iron rust. Burning of Coal. A piece of coal burns in the grate and is apparently destroyed, leaving no residue except a little ashes. The carbon and hydrogen of the coal have united with the oxy- gen of the air, the products being water and the invisible gas, carbonic acid gas, both of which escape through the chimney. Formation of Water. Water is formed by the union of two invisible gases, hydrogen and oxygen. It bears no resemblance whatever to either of them. Its symbol is H20. All these are examples of chemical changes. Definition of Chemical Change. Chemical changes or processes may be defined as those close and inti- mate actions amongst the particles of matter by which they are dissociated or decomposed, or by which new compounds are formed, and involving a complete loss of identity of the original substance. Physical Changes. Mix a teaspoon of sugar with an equal amount of salt; the sugar is still sugar, and the salt remains salt; and they may each be separated from the mixture as such. Water when frozen is changed from a liquid to a solid; its chemical composition, however, remains unchanged. Water converted into steam by heat is changed from a liquid 1 Carbonic acid is composed of one part of carbon and two parts of oxygen. Its symbol is CCK. One volume of hydrogen united with ono volume of chlorin forms hydrochloric acid, HCL Common salt, or so- dium chlorid, is composed of ono part sodium and ono part chlorin. Symbol, NaCl.