THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN 28G sils in the human throat, produces a most virulent poison, which, taken up by the circulation, pervades the whole body, and often so enfeebles its functions as to destroy it.1 Reasoning from analogy, it is not impossible to suppose that other organisms may produce substances of a similar character, poisonous in their effects, and which, when taken into the alimentary canal, may produce very grave digestive disorders.2 Further, bacteria, by their multiplication, use some of the constituents of milk for their food, thus chang- ing its composition. It is very important to prevent this growth, or, in case it has begun, to check it before it has rendered the milk unwholesome food. Hence the necessity of sterilizing immediately all milk which is not received directly from the cow. Besides, cows are often infected with tuberculosis, foot-and-mouth disease, splenic fever, pneumonia, and other danger- ous disorders. Their milk may be a direct cause of infection. When it is sterilized there is less danger from it; but even then it is not, of course, a wholesome food, because of the poisons which may be produced in the animal during the progress of the disease, and because a sick and weakened cow cannot give whole- some milk.3 In many cities, through the influence of children's hospitals and sanitariums, the knowledge and methods 1 Welsh. 2 Since -writing the ahove I have learned tbat Prof. Vaughan has isolated a poisonous matter —the product of the growth of certain organisms which multiply readily in milk —which caused active vom- iting, purging, collapse, and death when injected into the lower animals. 3 In England and America many cases of scarlatina, typhoid fever, and diphtheria have been traced to the milk supply. But there is no satisfactory evidence that those diseases were transmitted from the cow; more probably the milk, which is an especially good nutritive me- dium for bacteria, became infected after leaving the cow. In October, 1891, an epidemic of diphtheria prevailed in Melrose, T.Iass. Thirty-three cases were reported. On investigation it was found that every caso