46 EXPLANATORY LESSONS a slightly yellowish tinge sometimes described as " cream white." It should vary but slightly in com- position from the above analyses. The fat should not be less than 2.5%. The amount of fat may be easily determined with a Feser's lactoscope (Eimer and Amend, New York), directions for the use of which come with the iustruments. It will generally vary from 3% to 4% in good milk. Should it fall below 2.5% the milk should be rejected as too poor for use. Such milk has probably been skimmed, or comes from unhealthy or poorly fed cows. The specific gravity of milk should be from 1.027 to 1.033. This may be found with a Quevenne's lactom- eter. If it falls below 1.027, one has a right to claim that the milk has been watered or that the cows are iu poor condition.1 The reaction of good milk varies from slightly alka- line to slightly acid or neutral. That from the same cow will be different on different days, even under the same apparent conditions of care, varying from one to the other, probably because of some difference in the nature of the food she has eaten. However, if the reaction is decided!}/ alkaline, and red litmus-paper becomes a distinct blue, the milk is not good, and possibly the animal is diseased. Should the reaction be decidedly acid, it shows that the milk has been contaminated, either from the air by long exposure, or from the vessels which held it, with those micro- organisms which by their growth produce an acid, a l Tlie following is the police order for milk, published in Darmstadt, 1879: (1) All milk must have a specific gravity of 1.029-1.033. (2) When skimmed it must have a specific gravity of 1.033. (3) All milk with a specific gravity under 1.027 is to bo considered as watered and immedi- ately confiscated. (4) All milk with specific gravity over 1.027, if after twenty-four hours standing and slamming the specific gravity is under 1.033, must also be confiscated, also all skimmed milk with a specific gravity under 1.033. (5) All milk must be considered skimmed which has less than 2.8 per cent, of fat.