EXPLANATORY LESSONS 21 overcome. In Mexico, 7000 feet above the sea, there are 7000 feet less of atmosphere to be resisted; conse- quently, less heat is required, and boiling takes place at a lower temperature. By inclosing a vessel of water in a glass bell, and exhausting the air by means of an air-pump, water may be made to boil at a temperature of 70° Fahr., showing that much of the force (heat) that is consumed in causing water to be converted into steam is required to overcome the pressure of the air. The foregoing illustrates the point that boiling water is not of invariable temperature; consequently, that foods which in some places are cooked in it may in other places be cooked in water that is not boiling,— in other words, that it is not ebullition which produces the change in boiling substances, but heat. Changes Produced in Water by Boiling. By boiling water for a moderate time the greater part of the at- mospheric gases is driven off. The flavor is much changed. We call it " flat"; but by shaking it in a carafe or other vessel so that the air can mingle with it, it will reacquire oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid, and its usual flavor can thus be restored. Water which flows through soil containing lime is further changed by boiling. Exp. with Lime-water. Pour a little lime-water into a test-tube. With a small glass tube blow into it for a few min- utes, when it will become opaque; continue the blowing for a few minutes more, when it will lose its cloudy appearance and be- come clear again. The following explains this: in the first place there was forced into the lime-water, from the lungs, air containing an excess of carbonic acid; this united with the lime in solution in the water and formed carbonate of lime. Carbonate of lime is insoluble in water which contains no car- bonic acid, or very little,1 but will dissolve in water which i? charged with it, and this is produced by the continued blowing. i The carbonic acid breathed in has united with the lime, thus leav- ing the water without excess of it. 3