THE FEEDING OF CHILDREN 287 of sterilizing milk for infants' food are gradually spreading. Circular wire frames, made something like casters, and fitted with eight bottles, each holding enough mtlk for one feeding, may be bought for the purpose of sterilizing at almost any pharmacy. The frame is to be set in a kettle with water in the bottom, which on boiling produces steam, the heat of which does the sterilizing.1 This is an easy method. Another good way is to sterilize at a lower temperature for a longer time, as less change is produced in the con- stituents of the milk by the lower degree of heat. This may be easily done by immersing the bottles in water at 190° Fahr., and maintaining that tempera- ture for an hour.2 Care of Feeding-bottles. Great care must be taken in cleansing feeding-bottles. When they can be could be traced to the milk supply. The farm from which it came was situated in an adjoiniug town, and the family of the dealer had been afflicted with diphtheria, two of the children having died. The use of the milk was, of course, promptly stopped. 1 A simple and inexpensive apparatus for sterilizing milk consists of a covered tin kettle ten inches in height by eight inches in diam- eter, a wire basket, which tits easily into the kettle, supplied with supports or legs projecting one and a half inches from the bottom, one dozen eight-ounce nursing-bottles, and a bundle of fresh cotton wad- ding. The whole apparatus, costing about $1.25, is kept in most drug stores. Milk for twenty-four hours' use is properly sweetened and diluted with water in a clean pitcher, and as much of this as the child will take at one feeding is poured into each bottle, and the bottle stopped with cot- ton wadding, which should fit only moderately tight in the neck of the bottle. The kettle is filled to the depth of one half to one inch with wa- ter, the basket containing the bottles placed in it, the kettle covered and placed over a fire until the steam comes out from the sidos of the top for half an hour, when the basket containing the bottles should be removed and put in a cool place. When the milk is to be used, it should be heated by placing a bottle in warm water for a few miuutes. The cotton is then removed, and a sterilized nipple attached. After the feeding the bottle is cleansed and kept in an inverted position until used again The above directions are those of Dr. Booker, specialist of children's diseases, Johns Hopkins Hospital. 2 In the Walker-Gordon Milk Laboratory, in Boston, milk is sterilized at 175° to 180° Fahr. for fifteen minutes, and it is claimed that this torn-