EXPLANATORY LESSONS 20 little white threads have begun to appear; continue the heating to 160°, when the whole mass becomes white and firm. Now re- move a part from the tube and test its consistency; it will bo found to be tender, soft, and jelly-like. Replace the tube in the dish of water and raise the heat to 200° Pahr. ; then take out a little more and test again; it will now be found hard, close-grained, and somewhat tough. Continue the heating, when it will be seen that the tenacity increases with rise of tempera- ture until at 212° Fahr., the boiling-point of water, it is a firm, compact solid. When heated to about 350°, white of egg be- comes so tenacious that it is used as a valuable cement for marble. These experiments illustrate a very important point in the cooking of albuminous foods. They show that the proper temperature for albumen is that at which it is thoroughly coagulated, but not hardened; that is, about 160° Fahr. Most kinds of meat, milk, eggs, oysters, and fish, when cooked with reference to their albumen alone, we find are also done in the best pos- sible manner with reference to their other constituents. For instance, if you cook an oyster thinking only of its albuminous juice, and endeavor to raise the tem- perature throughout all of its substance to, or near, 160° Fahr., and not higher, you will find it most satis- factory as to flavor, consistency, and digestibility. The same is true of eggs done in all ways, and of dishes made with eggs, such as custards, creams, and puddings. With the knowledge that albumen coagu- lates at a temperature of 52° below that of boiling water, one can appreciate the necessity of cooking eggs in water that is not boiling, and a little experi- ment like the above will impress it upon the mind as no amount of mere explanation can possibly do. The cooking of eggs, whether poached, cooked in the shell, or in omelets, is of much importance, for albumen when hard, compact, and tenacious is very difficult of digestion; the gastric juice cannot easily