60 EXPLANATORY LESSONS converted into non-nitrogenous substances.1 The necessity of the protein compounds is emphasized when we realize that about one half of the body is composed of muscle, one fifth of which is protein, and the nitrogen in this protein can be furnished only by protein, since neither fats nor carbohydrates con- tain it. It is therefore evident that the protein- containing foods, such as beef, mutton, fish, eggs, milk, and others, are our most valued nutrients. Our daily diet must contain a due proportion. The proteins are all complex chemical compounds, which in nutrition become reduced to simple forms, and are then built up again into flesh. The animal foods are in the main the best of the protein com- pounds, for they are rich in nitrogenous matter, are easily digested, and from their composition and adapt- ability are most valuable in maintaining the life of the body. A diet of lean meat alone serves to build up tissue. If nothing else be taken, the stored-up fat of the body will be consumed, and the person will become thin.2 Athletes while in training take advantage of this fact, and are allowed to eat only such food as shall furnish the greatest amount of strength and muscular energy with a minimum of fat. The lean of beef and mutton, with a certain amount of bread, constitute the foundation of the diet. Fats. Most of the fatty substances of food are » 1 Protein may be converted into fat; tout although this win happen, it wHl not do to depend upon it for the supply in the nutrition of the body; for either it cannot be formed in sufficient quantity, or the excess of nitrogen acts as a poison. The body suffers unless a due amount of fat as such be taken. (Martin.) 2 By regulating the amount of fat taken each day with food, so that a little less than is needed is consumed, one may reduce the amount of fat of the body and become thin, or reduce an excess of fat without in- jury to health. The process must be gradual, and continued for a number of months. Bismarck, by the advice of his physician, reduc.ed his weight in this way without loss of energy or any ill feeling.