EXPLANATORY LESSONS 15 of the air; in other words, light the candle. A match is com- posed of wood, sulphur, and phosphorus. The latter is a sub- stance which unites with oxygen very easily; that is, at a low temperature. By friction against any hard object, sufficient heat is aroused to effect a union between the phosphorus of a match and the oxygen of the surrounding air; the flame is then con- veyed to the sulphur, or the heat thus generated causes a union between it (the sulphur) and the oxygen, sulphur burning some- what less freely than phosphorus; this gives enough heat to ignite the wood, and with its combustion we get sufficient heat to light the candle, or to start a chemical union between the combus- tible portion, carbon chiefly, of the candle and the oxygen of the air. Allow the candle to burn for a time, then put over it a tall lamp-chimney; notice that the flame grows long and dim. Next place on the top of the chimney a tin cover, leaving a small opening, and make an opening into the chimney from be- low, with a pin or the blade of a knife placed between it and the table; note that the candle burns dimly. Then exclude the flow of air by completely covering the top; in a moment, as soon as the oxygen inside the chimney is consumed, the candle will go out. This shows (1) that air (oxygen is the active agent) is necessary to cause the candle to burn; (2) that by regulating the draft or flow of air the intensity of the combustion may be increased or diminished; (3) that by completely excluding air the candle is ex- tinguished. This experiment with the candle illus- trates the way in which coal is consumed in a stove. By opening the drafts and allowing the inflow of plenty of oxygen, combustion is increased; by par- tially closing them it is diminished, and by the com- plete exclusion of air burning is stopped. The products of burning coal are chiefly carbonic acid and a small amount of ash. Twelve weights of coal, not counting the ash, will unite with thirty-two weights of oxygen, giving as a result forty-four weights of carbonic acid. Accompanying the union there is an evolution of light and heat. The enormous amount of carbonic acid given out daily from fires is taken