EXPLANATORY LESSONS 20 on the sides of tlio glass. These are not steam, as may be proved by testing the temperature of the water; they are bubbles of atmospheric gases which have been condensed in the water from the air; they have been proved to be nitrogen, oxygen, and carbonic acid, but as they do not exist in the water in the same proportions as in the air, they are not called air, but at- mospheric <jases. Continue the heating, and the bubbles will con- tinue to form. After a while, very large bubbles will appear at the bottom of the tube; they increase rapidly and rise toward the top; some break before reaching it, but as the heat becomes more intense others succeed in getting to the surf ace,—there they break and disappear. If the water now be tested with a ther- mometer, it will be found to have reached 212° Fahrenheit or 100° Centigrade, provided the experiment be tried at or near the level of the sea. Steam. The large bubbles are bubbles of steam, or water expanded by heat until its particles are so far apart that it ceases to be a liquid and becomes a gas. True steam is invisible; the moisture which collects on the sides of the tube and is seen coming out at the mouth is partially condensed steam, or watery vapor. Watch a tea-kettle as it boils on a stove; for the space of an inch or two from the end of the spout there seems to be nothing; that is where the true steam is; beyond that, clouds of what is commonly called steam appear; they are watery vapor formed from the true steam by partial condensation which is produced by its contact with the cool air.1 Boiling-point of Water. Water boils at different tem- peratures, according to the elevation above the sea- level. In Baltimore it boils practically at 212° Fahr.; at Munich in Germany at 209£°; at the city of Mex- ico in Mexico at 200°; and in the Himalayas, at an elevation of 18,000 feet above the level of the sea, at 180°. These differences are caused by the varying pressure of the atmosphere at these points. In Bal- timore practically the whole weight of the air is to be i Mattiou Williams, in " Chemistry of Cookery."