294 Food and Feeding. The Children's Dinner Table. This has become so well known and so popular an in- stitution that I can scarcely leave it unnoticed. The more so as its origin is, I may be permitted to say, not without interest personal to myself. Victor Hugo, when an exile in Guernsey, established a substantial meat dinner for very poor children, in the belief that even this amount of good nourishment, supplied once or twice a week, would afford them valuable aid during the period of rapid growth, by developing the constitution of these young people, and thus improve the stamina of the rising generation. And he advocated the general adoption of the system from this point of view, in some letters on the subject in the local press in the year 1865. By some means these fell into the hands of Lady (at that time Mrs.) Thompson, who forthwith resolved to try the experiment in Marylebone. Having consulted the clergyman of the parish, who approved the plan, she at once issued the following prospectus:— "It is proposed to supply hot dinners of wholesome food for poor children, especially those who are, or have been in bad health, and who need more nutritious diet than their homes afford. "On and after the beginning of October it is intended to engage a room where twice a week such children may come for a meal of meat, vegetables, and bread, all of the best quality; and where, with only just enough discipline to insure good order and behaviour, their hunger shall be satisfied, the means of restored health provided, and habits of neatness taught. "The room will be in the immediate neighbourhood of High Street, Marylebone. " The arrangements are in active progress, but the cost of furniture and kitchen utensils involves some outlay, hence immediate donations are earnestly solicited for this purpose. " Further, any person may become a subscriber by paying the sum of 3J. 6^/., which will entitle him or her to ten tickets, and to the privilege of sending children to that number of dinners—each child